name:
Nigiri
ingredients:
Niskiki rice.: 1cup(144 g)- for sushi, cooked
Sea bass (sea bass): 1.4oz(40 g)- (frozen)
Salmon fillets: 2.3oz(65 g)- (frozen, cleaned and trimmed)
Tuna filet: 1.8oz(50 g)- (flash-frozen, cleaned and trimmed)
Wasabi: to taste
Pickled ginger: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High
Note + the preparation of rice

instructions:
To prepare 12 pieces of sea bass, tuna, and salmon nigiri, you will need about 5 oz of cooked sushi rice, so first, find out Sushi rice: how to cook it and which one to choose . To obtain the 1.4 oz of sea bass needed for the recipe, you can purchase a fillet or extract the necessary part from the sea bass as follows: after removing the head, gutting, and scaling the fish, turn its belly towards you and cut to reach the tail, following the central bone . Then proceed with a cut along the entire back of the fish, above the fin . Then bring the tail of the fish to your right and make the same cut above the fin, from the tail towards the head. Cut up to the base of the tail to obtain a fillet . Turn the sea bass with the flesh resting on the cutting board and make the same cut to obtain the second fillet.
Take the obtained fillet, trim it, and remove any remaining bones with tweezers . Cut away the skin by passing the blade between the meat and skin, holding the fillet by the tail . Rub the fillet in a bowl with cold water, ice, and dissolved fine salt : this helps to remove as much fat as possible.
Pat the fillet dry with a kitchen towel , then cut the fillet diagonally and against the grain to obtain 4 equal slices, each about 0.4 oz . Proceed in the same way with the salmon fillet, always with a cut against the grain to obtain 4 slices about 0.5 oz each .
You can proceed in the same way with the piece of tuna to obtain 4 slices against the grain of about 0.6 oz each . Place the slices of sea bass, tuna, and salmon in different small plates so you can easily take them with your left hand. Now it's necessary to moisten the right hand in a little acidulated water (with rice vinegar) and lightly dab on a clean towel . Then with your right hand take about 0.4-0.5 oz of sushi rice . Gently press to give an oval shape, squeezing the rice in the palm of your hand.
With your left hand, grab a slice of tuna, season with a very small amount of wasabi in the center , then place the rice on top . Press lightly, then turn over and press the sides of the fish to shape the nigiri with your thumb and middle finger, so as to well unite the two parts . Proceed with the same operations for all the pieces of tuna,
also with the salmon slices to create salmon nigiri and with the sea bass to create sea bass nigiri . Compose each portion with 1 nigiri of each type of fish , served with pickled ginger and soy sauce.
We recommend consuming the nigiri as soon as possible.
The rice can be prepared in advance, then heated to bring it to a temperature of around 97-99°F.
When consuming nigiri with soy sauce, the rice should not be soaked, but the fish fillet part should be slightly dipped. Traditionally, it is eaten with the hands.
We recommend assembling the nigiri rather quickly in order to serve it with the rice still warm.
It is important not to press the rice portion for each nigiri too much, otherwise the rice "ball" will be excessively hard.
To best enjoy it, you can start with the more delicate sea bass nigiri, then move on to the tuna and then the salmon.
Between one nigiri and the other, you can cleanse your palate with a bit of pickled ginger.
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at -0.4°F in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, according to Ministry of Health guidelines .

