name:
Uramaki
ingredients:
Niskiki rice.: ½cup(120 g)- (for sushi, cooked)
Nori seaweed: 1- (from 19x21 cm)
Mayonnaise: to taste
Avocado: 0.7oz(20 g)
Sesame seeds: to taste- mixed
Crabmeat: 0.5oz(15 g)- (king crab, already cooked)
Pickled ginger: to taste
Wasabi: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus the time to prepare the sushi rice

instructions:
To prepare the uramaki, first, prepare the sushi rice . Wrap the makisu in plastic wrap and lay it flat on a surface ; place half a sheet of nori seaweed with the shiny side touching the mat. The seaweed should be positioned towards you, almost at the edge of the makisu, leaving about 0.4 inches (1 cm) of space from the edge .
Moisten your hands with acidulated water and take 4 oz (120 g) of rice, now lukewarm . Spread it, pressing it with your fingertips and moving it evenly over the entire surface of the nori seaweed. The rice layer should not be too thick. Use the acidulated water to help yourself. With experience, you'll learn how much is needed: if there's too much, the rice will slip from your hands, if too little, it will stick.
Sprinkle with mixed sesame seeds . Gently lift the seaweed and flip it so that the rice is in contact with the mat and the seaweed is facing up . Take the avocado and trim it ,
cut it in half lengthwise with a knife , separate the two halves and take one. Peel it gently with your hands , place it on a cutting board and cut it into wedges . You'll need about 0.7 oz (20 g) for each roll.
Spread a strip of mayonnaise in the center of the seaweed, using a kitchen squeeze bottle for a more precise result . Place two avocado wedges on the mayonnaise, one right after the other , to fill the entire length of the seaweed. Next to it, towards you, add the crab meat (king crab) , leaving about 1 inch (2-3 cm) between the ingredients and the edge of the sheet.
With both hands, lift the edge of the mat closest to you and start rolling. Apply light pressure with your fingers, pushing the ingredients inward , lift the mat again , and finish rolling the roll. Apply usual pressure .
then reopen the mat and transfer the uramaki to a cutting board. Moisten the blade of a knife with plain water to avoid damaging the knife's edge . Cut the roll in half ,
then place the 2 pieces side by side and cut into 4 equal parts to obtain 8 pieces . Transfer to a serving plate and serve your uramaki, decorated with sprouts, lettuce leaves, and radish slices . Your uramaki are ready, serve them with wasabi and pickled ginger .
You can purchase frozen crab meat and steam it, or use pre-cooked crab meat usually found in tins.
We recommend preparing the uramaki at the moment.
Any form of storage is not recommended.
Sushi rice can be prepared in advance and then warmed to reach the required temperature for use: approximately 96°F (36°C).
Get creative with the fillings, there are really many options.
You can opt for a simple tuna tartare, tempura shrimp, or a richer variant with salmon, Philadelphia cheese, and avocado.
You can also add mango, raw shrimp, cucumbers, and enrich the uramaki with almond flakes or tobiko.

