name:
Lebkuchen
ingredients:
Eggs: 3.5oz(100 g)- (approximately 2)
Sugar: 0.8cup(160 g)
Walnut kernels: 2 ¼cups(270 g)
Candied orange: 2.5oz(70 g)
Candied citron: 2.5oz(70 g)
Acacia honey: 1 ½tbsp(30 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Cinnamon powder: 2tsp(5 g)
Lemon peel: to taste
Wafer paper: 22- round with a diameter of 70 mm
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp
Cloves: ½tsp- powdered
Powdered coriander: ½tsp
Cardamon: ½tsp
Nutmeg: ½tsp
Star anise: ½tsp- powdered
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)- at 52%
Vegetable oil: 1spoonful
Peeled almonds: to taste
Candied cherries: to taste
Powdered sugar: 0.6cup(70 g)
Rum: 1tsp
Red wine: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 26 min
Makes: 22 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the lebkuchen, place the shelled nuts and half of the sugar (80 g) into a mixer . Pulse intermittently to obtain powdered nuts with some coarser pieces . Pour into a bowl and set aside. Place the candied orange, candied citron, and honey into the mixer .
Blend, then add 1 tablespoon of chopped nuts to help with the process. Set aside . Also, prepare the spice mix: place the cinnamon, ground cloves, coriander, cardamom, nutmeg, and star anise into a small bowl. Mix briefly . This mix is available ready-made in Germany, known as "lebkuchen spice mix".
Crack two whole eggs into a bowl, add the remaining sugar, and the seeds from half a vanilla pod . Beat with an electric mixer until you get a frothy mixture . Add the chopped nuts ,
the candied fruit , the spice mix , and 5 g of cinnamon .
Add the grated zest of ¼ of a lemon and mix the dough . Take 30 g of the mixture .
With slightly damp hands, create a ball and place it in the center of a 2.75-inch wafer. Press it lightly and shape it to leave a free edge of about 0.2 inches. Continue this way until all the dough is used. Place the cookies on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 13 minutes, until the edges are golden. Then remove them from the oven and wait for the Lebkuchen to cool slightly and firm up before removing them from the baking sheet. Meanwhile, continue with the second batch. Once ready, you can choose to serve them plain or glazed with chocolate or punch. We show you how to make a mixed version. For the chocolate version: chop the chocolate with a knife , transfer to a saucepan, add 1 tablespoon of oil
and melt it in a double boiler . Then transfer it to a small bowl. Take a cookie and dip the base in the chocolate , shake it slightly to let the excess glaze drip off
and place it on a rack with the chocolate side facing up . While the chocolate is still soft, you can decorate the cookies with half a candied cherry and/or some almonds . For the punch glaze version: pour the powdered sugar into a bowl and add 1 tablespoon of Rum
and 1 tablespoon of red wine . Mix briefly until you get a smooth glaze . Take a Lebkuchen and dip the base in the glaze ,
then shake gently to remove the excess glaze and place it on a rack with the glaze side facing up . Let the cookies dry , and serve them .
Lebkuchen can be stored in a tin box for 2-3 weeks. Freezing is not recommended.
Nuremberg Lebkuchen can vary in size: 3.5 inches, 2.75 inches, and 2 inches. We have suggested the 2.75-inch version, but you can also use 2-inch wafers: in this case, you will need 15 grams of dough to make your cookie, and you will get a total of 44 smaller Lebkuchen.
Instead of nuts, you can also use almonds or hazelnuts, or create a more delicate version with half nuts and half almonds, respecting the same quantity indicated in the recipe.
Instead of the punch glaze, you can use a simple water glaze, replacing the Rum and red wine with the same amount of room temperature water.

