name:
Bread with Type 1 Flour
ingredients:
Type 1 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Water: 1cup(225 g)- (at room temperature)
Sourdough starter: 3oz(80 g)- (refreshed the day before)
Fine salt: 1.3tsp(8 g)
Type 1 flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note For the recipe, you need a sourdough starter refreshed the night before + at least 24 hours of bread rising are required

instructions:
To prepare bread with type 1 flour, pour the flour , room temperature water , and refreshed sourdough from 1 day ago into a bowl.
Work with your hands for about 10 minutes until you get a soft and homogeneous dough . Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest for about 15 minutes .
At this point, remove the plastic wrap, add the salt , and work the dough by bringing the dough from the outside to the inside with smooth movements while also turning the bowl . Repeat this operation for about 5 minutes. Cover again with plastic wrap and let it rest for about 30 minutes.
At this point, you need to do 3 rounds of folding, repeating the following operations three times: take an outer edge of the dough, lift it and bring it towards the center . Rotate the bowl, take another edge of the dough and bring it towards the center . Rotate the bowl again, take another edge of the dough and bring it towards the center. For the last time, rotate the bowl again, take another edge of the dough, and bring it towards the center, for a total of 4 folds or overlaps. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest for about 15 minutes. Repeat these operations as indicated two more times, with a time interval of 15 minutes between each. You will then have completed your 3 rounds of folding.
After the third round, cover with plastic wrap and let it rest for about 4 hours at room temperature. Then transfer to the fridge and let it mature for 12 hours. Retrieve the dough, which will be slightly risen , transfer it onto a well-floured surface (always with type 1 flour). Gently spread the dough with your hands , lifting it from underneath.
You need to form a rectangle of about 8x6 inches . Give some folds: fold the top part inwards and the bottom part over it .
Take the smaller “open” side and bring it inwards . Repeat the operation for the other side . Flip the bundle and quickly shape it into a sphere with your hands .
Line a bread form (or a bowl) with a dry and clean kitchen cloth and lightly flour it. Transfer the shaped dough with the seam facing up. Lightly flour with type 1 flour and cover with the edges of the cloth. Let the dough rest for 2 hours at room temperature and transfer again to the fridge for 6 hours. At this point, preheat the oven to 482°F static, leaving a cast iron pot in the oven until it reaches temperature (alternatively, you can use the oven tray to bake the bread). When the oven is hot, take the dough and flip it onto a sheet of parchment paper .
Lightly dust the surface of the bread again with type 1 flour , spread it very gently with your hands , and make an oblique cut from side to side .
Place inside the hot pot or tray without burning yourself and bake in a static oven for about 30 minutes at 482°F and for another 5 minutes in a fan oven, still at 482°F. Once ready, remove the bread , transfer it to a wire rack , and let it cool completely before slicing (it might take an hour).
You can store bread with type 1 flour in a paper bag for 5 days. Alternatively, you can freeze it after baking.

You can enhance bread with type 1 flour by adding mixed seeds or aromatic herbs to the dough!

