name:
Two-tone cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(370 g)
Almond flour: 3tbsp(20 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 0.3cup(20 g)
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)- (cold from the fridge)
Brown sugar: ½cup(120 g)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (1 medium at room temperature)
Baking powder: 0.8tsp(3 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 22 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus 30 min of pastry dough resting time

instructions:
To prepare the two-tone cookies, pour the cold cubed butter and brown sugar into the bowl of the stand mixer. Mix the ingredients with the paddle attachment for a couple of minutes, then add the egg at room temperature . Mix until you obtain a homogeneous mixture.
Add the all-purpose flour and the previously sifted baking powder to the mixture. Mix for a few seconds and also add the fresh cream .
Keep mixing with the paddle until you obtain a homogeneous and compact dough . Then divide the dough into two equal parts and transfer them into two different bowls. In one of these, add the almond flour
and work quickly with your hands until it is well absorbed. In the second bowl, add the previously sifted cocoa. Work quickly with your hands to mix the ingredients but without warming the dough too much .
When you have obtained two homogeneous doughs , cover with plastic wrap and let them rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 min. Remove the doughs from the refrigerator. Start with the white one. Take it and work it on the surface to form a loaf about 0.4 inches thick.
Then cut into strips 4 inches long , cutting the dough with a knife or dough scraper. Place them gently on a baking tray lined with parchment paper or on a tray . Continue until the white dough is finished, then work with the cocoa dough. As before, form a loaf about 0.4 inches thick .
Cut strips 4 inches long and transfer them onto a tray . In total, you should obtain 22 white strips and 22 black strips. Now you just need to form the cookies. Take one of the white strips, place it on a baking tray with parchment paper, and shape it into a C .
Now take a cocoa strip, shape it the same way, and place it on one side above the white dough and on the other side below. Then gently press them together with your hands . You will get cookies with a diameter of about 3 inches. Continue this way until you finish the strips and form all the cookies . Now proceed to baking: bake the cookies in a preheated static oven at 338°F for 25 minutes, on the middle rack, using the static oven. Then remove from the oven and let cool before transferring the cookies to a tray or a tin box.
The two-tone cookies can be stored in an airtight container for a week.
Alternatively, it is possible to freeze the two doughs.
You can make the dough by hand, being careful not to warm it too much.

