name:
Shrimp Ceviche
ingredients:
Prawns: 4
Mango: 8slices- thin
Lime juice: 5.1tbsp(80 g)- (about 4)
Fresh ginger: 0.7oz(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tsp(5 g)
Raspberries: 2tbsp(15 g)
Green Peperoncino: ½
Coriander: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Iceberg lettuce: to taste
Lime peel: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 1 h of marination (or more hours depending on preferences)

instructions:
To prepare the shrimp ceviche, first clean the prawns: remove the head and shell , then slit the back and remove the intestine . Finally, cut the cleaned prawns in half lengthwise with a sharp knife . Set aside for now.
Peel the mango and slice into 8 rather thin slices , dividing the larger slices in half . Set aside and proceed with the dressing.
Pour the lime juice into a tall, narrow container , then add the fresh ginger in chunks , the oil , and salt.
Blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth consistency , then add the cilantro ,
the chili pepper cut into rings and the fresh raspberries . Mix gently to combine everything .
At this point, take a baking dish and arrange the shrimp inside alternating with the mango slices . Pour the obtained dressing over , cover with plastic wrap and leave to marinate in the refrigerator for about an hour. If you prefer, you can extend the marinating time up to 8-10 hours.
After this time, remove the shrimp and mango from the marinating liquid and place them on a bed of lettuce, then season with some of the dressing and garnish with grated lime zest . Your shrimp ceviche is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the shrimp ceviche immediately and avoid any form of storage.
You can vary your shrimp ceviche by adding avocado slices or replacing fresh turmeric with ginger. Try making the same recipe with langoustines!
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at -0.4 degrees Fahrenheit in a home freezer marked with 3 or more stars, according to health ministry guidelines .

