name:
Orecchiette with Potato Cream, Broccoli, and Sausage
ingredients:
Orecchiette pasta: 12.7oz(360 g)- fresh
Potatoes: 6.3oz(180 g)- (2 medium)
Broccoli: 3 ½cups(300 g)
Sausage: 0.7lb(300 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the orecchiette with potato cream, broccoli, and sausage, start with the tubers. Place the potatoes in a pot with plenty of water and put it on the heat: from the moment it boils, count 30 - 50 minutes or until they are cooked . At the end of cooking, peel them while still hot and mash them . Meanwhile, prepare the sauce. Peel the onion and finely chop it .
Then clean the broccoli by cutting the florets with a small knife , rinse them, and move to the stove. Put a pot with water on the heat, and as soon as it boils, immerse the florets, boiling them for 5-6 minutes . At the end of cooking, drain the florets but do not discard the water as it will be used to cook the orecchiette. Peel the sausages
and crumble them . Put a pan on the heat, add a drizzle of oil, and add the onion and then the sausage, browning over low heat for 5 minutes .
Add the boiled florets and let them absorb the flavor for a few minutes before also adding the mashed potatoes . At this point, take some water from the pot and dilute the sauce to transform it into a homogeneous cream while stirring; season with salt and pepper .
Immerse the orecchiette in the pot of water where you boiled the florets, salt, and cook them al dente , then drain them directly into the sauce and mix .
Turn off the heat and add the grated cheese , mix , and immediately plate your orecchiette with potato cream, broccoli, and sausage .
Any form of storage of the orecchiette with potato cream, broccoli, and sausage is not recommended.
For a crunchy touch to your dish of orecchiette with potato cream, broccoli, and sausage, you can add chopped and toasted nuts on top, or alternatively, toasted breadcrumbs.

