name:
Cocoa pancakes
ingredients:
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)- at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Butter: 1.8tbsp(25 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 1tbsp(15 g)
Sugar: 1tbsp(15 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (approximately 2 medium)
Baking powder: 1 ¼tsp(6 g)
Maple syrup: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare cocoa pancakes, start by melting the butter over very low heat, then let it cool. Separate the egg whites from the yolks; in the bowl with the yolks, pour the melted, cooled butter and mix. Once combined, add the room temperature milk and the flour sifted together with the baking powder .
Add the unsweetened cocoa powder also through a sieve and mix with a hand whisk to combine everything . At this point, beat the egg whites with an electric whisk, adding the sugar gradually .
Continue to work until you get a white and foamy mixture . Pour a tablespoon of whipped egg whites into the bowl with the cocoa mixture and mix gently with a hand whisk .
Then add the remaining egg whites and combine with upward movements using a spatula . Heat a large non-stick pan (preferably with a thick bottom) over medium heat (not high, otherwise you won't give the batter time to rise well during cooking) and grease with a little butter spread on the surface . Pour a small ladle of batter in the center of the pan , there will be no need to spread it.
When bubbles start to appear on the surface , turn it over to the other side and let it brown as well. Continue like this with the rest of the batter and gradually arrange the pancakes on a serving plate, stacking them on top of each other . Serve the cocoa pancakes with maple syrup or, if you prefer, dust them with powdered sugar and accompany them with fresh fruit or berries!
It is recommended to consume the pancakes immediately or store them in the refrigerator for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended. The batter can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for up to 12 hours.
If you prefer, you can use brown sugar instead of granulated. You can flavor the mixture with cinnamon or vanilla bean seeds.

