name:
Grandma's Plumcake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(270 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(170 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Lemon peel: ½
Sunflower seed oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Baking powder: 1 ¾tsp(8 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(125 g)
Eggs: 1
Sugar: 5tbsp(65 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(25 g)
Pine nuts: 0.3cup(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare grandma's plumcake, first make the custard cream. Pour the milk along with the whole lemon peel into a saucepan and heat it over low heat without boiling. In another pot, pour the sugar and the egg , beat quickly with a whisk, then incorporate the flour .
and mix again with the whisk until you get a homogeneous mixture . As soon as the milk is hot, remove the lemon peel and pour it into the mixture of eggs, sugar, and flour . Stir with a whisk and return to the heat. Cook for a few minutes, continuing to stir, until the cream has thickened . Remove from the heat, transfer to a bowl, and let cool.
Now move on to the plumcake batter. In a large bowl, pour the eggs and sugar . Whisk with electric beaters until you get a light and frothy mixture . Add the grated lemon zest .
incorporate the milk , the oil , and continue mixing with the beaters. Add the sifted flour .
and mix again with the electric beaters . Add the baking powder and mix again with a spatula until you get a smooth and homogeneous batter .
Oil and flour a 10x4.5 inch plumcake mold. Pour half of the batter into the mold and level it with the spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 15 minutes. Then remove the plumcake from the oven and spread the custard cream on top, avoiding the edges .
Cover with the remaining batter and using a spatula, spread it well even at the edges. Cover with pine nuts and bake for another 20 minutes. Remove the plumcake from the oven and let it cool completely on a wire rack before serving it .
Grandma's plumcake can be stored in the refrigerator wrapped in plastic wrap for 3-4 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
Flavor the cream with vanilla or orange zest! Dust the plumcake with powdered sugar.

