name:
Pasta with ricotta cream and fava beans
ingredients:
Bow tie pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)- ridged
Fava beans: 8.8oz(250 g)- Already shelled
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Yellow onions: 1.4oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Marjoram: 1sprig

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pasta with ricotta cream and fava beans, first, put a pot with plenty of salted water on the stove to cook the pasta. Shell the fava beans and transfer them to a saucepan with water. Bring everything to a boil and cook for another 2 minutes ; this way, the fava beans will soften, and it will be easier to peel them. At this point, drain them, transfer them to a container, and let them cool .
Using a small knife, peel the fava beans and collect them in another small bowl . At this point, add the pasta and cook it a couple of minutes less than the time indicated on the package.
Finely chop the onion , heat a bit of oil in a pan, add the onion , season with salt, add a grind of black pepper, and lightly brown. Add the peeled fava beans ,
stir and let them flavor for a minute , turn off the heat. At this point, transfer the ricotta to a bowl, add a ladle of cooking water and mix well . You should obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture. The amount of water will be adjusted based on the type of ricotta.
As soon as the bow-tie pasta is cooked, drain it and transfer it to a bowl. Add the ricotta cream and mix. Then add the fava beans, keeping some aside for garnishing the dish, and stir again. Also add a few marjoram leaves and mix.
Transfer everything back into the pan where you cooked the fava beans , let it heat for a moment to flavor everything . Transfer to serving plates, decorating with the reserved fava beans and a few marjoram leaves . The ricotta cream and fava bean pasta is ready, serve it immediately .
We recommend consuming it immediately. Alternatively, it can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day.
If desired, you can further flavor the ricotta cream and fava bean pasta by adding strips of bacon sautéed in a pan without added fats.

