name:
Farfalle with Parmesan cream, speck and pistachios
ingredients:
Bow tie pasta: 0.8lb(360 g)
Speck: 5.3oz(150 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1cup(100 g)
Ground pistachio: 0.67cup(80 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 6
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the farfalle with Parmesan cream, speck, and pistachios, start by cutting the speck into strips about 0.2 inches wide ; wash, dry, and cut the cherry tomatoes into 8 parts . In a large skillet, pour a drizzle of oil, add the speck , and let it brown for a few moments.
Add the cherry tomatoes and cook over medium heat for a few minutes. As soon as the cherry tomatoes wilt, turn off the heat . Put a pot with plenty of water on the stove to boil, it will be used for the pasta. Meanwhile, prepare the Parmesan cream. Place the butter in a pot ,
melt it over very low heat, add the flour and mix with a whisk until you get a smooth creamy mixture , add the cream ,
adjust salt and let it thicken over medium-low heat, stirring continuously with the whisk (about 5 minutes) ; as soon as the mixture becomes creamy, turn off the heat and add the grated Parmesan. Mix well to get a smooth and homogeneous cream . Add the Parmesan cream to the speck and cherry tomatoes ,
mix and add the pistachio crumbs (set aside 0.35 oz for the final decoration of the dish) , mix again and put it back on the stove over very low heat. Cook the farfalle one minute less than the time indicated on the package
and pour them directly into the sauce , mix to combine everything , serve immediately, garnishing each plate of farfalle with Parmesan cream, speck, and pistachio crumbs with some of the crumbles set aside .
You can store the farfalle with Parmesan cream, speck, and pistachios in a sealed container in the refrigerator for up to one day.
You can enrich the Parmesan cream with thyme or marjoram leaves. You can replace the pistachio crumbs with hazelnut crumbs if you prefer.

