name:
Unleavened mini pizzas with pumpkin and gorgonzola
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Water: ¾cup(200 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 3 ½tsp(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: ½tsp(3 g)
Delica pumpkin: 14.1oz(400 g)- (to be cleaned)
Gorgonzola cheese: 7oz(200 g)- sweet
Wildflower honey: 2tsp
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the unleavened mini pizzas with pumpkin and gorgonzola, start with the dough: in a bowl, pour the flour, water , oil , and salt .
Add the instant yeast and start kneading . When the mixture becomes consistent, transfer it to the surface and knead briefly with your hands .
Once you've obtained a smooth ball , roll it out on the lightly floured surface with the help of a rolling pin until you get a sheet about 1/8 inch thick. Then cut out discs with a 2 3/4-inch diameter cookie cutter ; with these doses, you will get about 16.
Place the discs on a baking tray lined with parchment paper, which you have previously greased with a drizzle of oil . Bake in a static oven at 375°F for about 15 minutes .
In the meantime, deal with the pumpkin: remove the seeds and inner filaments , then cut the flesh into chunks . Place the pumpkin in the air fryer basket and cook at 355°F for 15 minutes.
Once cooked , peel the pumpkin and mash it roughly with a fork .
Transfer the mashed pumpkin to the blender jug, then add a splash of water , salt, pepper, and oil . Blend until you get a smooth and homogeneous puree .
Remove the mini pizzas from the oven and top them with the cream , then bake for another 5 minutes. After this time, finish with the gorgonzola and a drizzle of honey .
Finally, garnish with thyme leaves and let them cool slightly . Your unleavened mini pizzas with pumpkin and gorgonzola are ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the unleavened mini pizzas with pumpkin and gorgonzola immediately. If necessary, you can store them in the fridge for a maximum of 2 days, in an airtight container.
The unfrosted mini pizzas can be frozen after cooking.
If you don't have an air fryer, you can bake the pumpkin in a ventilated oven at 355°F for about 20-25 minutes.
If you don't like gorgonzola, you can substitute it with taleggio or another cheese with a strong flavor!

