name:
Rice pizzettes
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Tomato purée: 0.833cup(200 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Fior di latte mozzarella cheese: 10.6oz(300 g)
Yellow onions: 1- medium
Basil: to taste
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the rice pizzettes, start by finely chopping the onion . Put it in a saucepan with a little oil and let it sauté for a few moments before adding the tomato puree .
Pour in a ladle of water , season with salt, and let it cook for about 30 minutes . Meanwhile, pour the rice into a pan with a dash of hot oil .
At this point, lower the temperature a bit and pour in some hot water, a little at a time, to cook the rice: it will take 9-10 minutes . Add a pinch of salt and pour into the sauce then continue cooking until the rice is ready; at the end of cooking, add a pinch of pepper .
As soon as the risotto is ready, turn off the stove and add some hand-torn basil leaves and grated Grana Padano DOP . Then mix thoroughly .
In a baking tray lined with parchment paper, pour the risotto and level it to a thickness of about 0.6 inches and let it cool .
Using a pastry cutter of 4-5 inches, cut out the discs . Quickly knead the leftovers and roll out again to continue cutting .
You will get a total of 6 discs . Let the butter melt in a pan and fry the discs , when the first side is golden, flip the discs
and sprinkle with the mozzarella cut into cubes . Cover with a lid and cook for a few more minutes. Here are your rice pizzettes, enjoy !
You can store the rice pizzettes in the refrigerator for a couple of days if you wish.
If you want to freeze the discs, you can do so before frying, then let them thaw in the fridge before proceeding as per the recipe.
For a white version of the rice pizzettes, try cooking the rice plain, add a bit of thick béchamel, as is done with Neapolitan pasta frittatas, and add the topping of your choice on top.

