name:
Mini rice balls with ham and smoked cheese
ingredients:
Risotto with parmigiana cheese: 17.6oz(500 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 7oz(200 g)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(100 g)
Breadcrumbs: 2cups(250 g)
Water: 0.67cup(150 g)- (cold)
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the mini rice balls with ham and scamorza cheese, you will need 500 grams (about 1.1 lbs) of risotto alla parmigiana, cooled. If you don't have it, you can prepare it by following the recipe on our website. Cut the cooked ham and the scamorza cheese into small cubes.
Then prepare the batter: in a bowl, mix the sifted flour, a pinch of salt, and the cold water added gradually . Stir continuously to avoid lumps . Heat a small pot with plenty of oil, so the mini rice balls will be completely submerged during frying. Now that you have everything, proceed with forming the balls: take about 50 grams (about 1.75 oz) of risotto alla parmigiana and shape it into a sphere .
Then make a small indentation in the middle and add cubes of ham and scamorza cheese . Then close it well by rolling in the palm of your hands .
You will get 10 small spheres with these measurements. Place them on a sheet of parchment paper as you go , then proceed by dipping each one first in the batter and then in the breadcrumbs .
The mini rice balls are ready for cooking: immerse a couple of pieces at a time in the hot oil at 340°F (measured with a kitchen thermometer) . When they are ready, drain them on a paper towel and here are your mini rice balls with ham and scamorza cheese !
Once ready, the mini rice balls with ham and cheese can be stored for a couple of days.
If you want, you can also freeze them after they have been battered and breadcrumbed; to cook, simply fry them from frozen.
For an extra crunchy breading for your mini rice balls with ham and cheese, use panko: what a treat!

