name:
Eggplant Pizza Bombs
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: ½cup(125 ml)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1 ¼tsp(6 g)
Fine salt: ½tsp
Eggplant: 1
Cherry tomatoes: 1cup(150 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + rising time (about 3 h)

instructions:
To prepare the eggplant pizza bombs, start with the dough. In a small bowl, pour the room temperature water and yeast . Stir until completely dissolved and set aside for a moment. In another larger bowl, pour the flour and salt .
Add the yeast-dissolved water and work the dough. If you prefer, you can use a stand mixer, or you can knead by hand directly in the bowl until you get a homogeneous mixture. Then transfer it to a work surface and knead for a few moments until it's smooth . If preferred, you can use a stand mixer with a hook at medium-low speed until you get a smooth dough. Transfer to a bowl, seal well with plastic wrap, and let the dough rise in an off oven with the light on until it doubles in volume. It will take about 2-3 hours.
Wash the eggplants, cut them first into slices and then into chunks . Also wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them into pieces .
Heat the peanut oil in a pan (340°F will be fine). Dip the eggplants in the hot oil and fry them slightly over medium heat. As soon as the eggplants start to turn golden, drain them and let the excess oil drip off. Set them aside. In the same pan where you just fried the eggplants, leave about 2 tablespoons of oil, removing the rest with a ladle , being careful not to burn yourself. Flavor the oil with a halved garlic clove ;
when the garlic starts to sizzle, add the chopped tomatoes to the pan . Let it heat and cook for 2-3 minutes, then add the fried eggplants back to the pan . Stir and let everything flavor and blend well. Add the basil leaves and season with salt.
Remove the garlic and turn off the heat . Leave the mixture at room temperature. Once the dough has risen , turn it out onto a surface and divide it into 6 pieces of 2.5 ounces each .
Flatten each portion with your hands into a circle and fill it with about 2 tablespoons of the now-cold filling . Close well by lifting the edges of the dough and pinching them towards the center .
Then, with the seam side down, roll it on the surface for a few moments to form a spherical shape . Repeat the same operation for all dough portions and gradually place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper with the seam side down . Let them rise again for 30 minutes, covering with a cloth. Brush the bombs with extra virgin olive oil and bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 30 minutes. Remove from the oven and serve your eggplant pizza bombs still hot !
You can store the eggplant pizza bombs for one day in the refrigerator.
Alternatively, you can freeze the already stuffed balls before the second rising. Just let them thaw, then let them rise before baking.
You can add salted ricotta to the filling for even more flavor!

