name:
Pasta with agretti and speck
ingredients:
Penne Rigate pasta: 11.25oz(320 g)
Friar's beard (agretti): 7oz(200 g)
Speck: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.3cup(100 g)
Fontina cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Shallot: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the pasta with agretti and speck, begin by cleaning and thinly slicing the shallot . Then clean the agretti by removing the white, tough part, rinse the green stems, and finely chop them . Finally, grate the fontina cheese and move to the stove .

Place a pot with plenty of water on the stove, and when it boils, salt it and cook the penne. Meanwhile, prepare the sauce. In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil and let the shallot soften over low heat for a few minutes before adding the speck. Let the speck cubes brown for a few minutes, then add the agretti and moisten them with a ladleful of pasta cooking water. Adjust the salt carefully, considering that the speck is already savory; cook for about ten minutes .
At the end of cooking, pour in the cream . You have time to cook the pasta; dip it in the water , and when it's al dente, drain it directly into the sauce .
Adjust the consistency to your liking by adding a bit more water if the sauce is too dry, then add the fontina cheese . Continue stirring until you achieve a creamy consistency. Turn off the heat and season with some chopped parsley . Your pasta with agretti and speck is ready, with an optional pinch of pepper to taste, and enjoy your meal .
Once the pasta with agretti and speck is ready, it's recommended to consume it immediately; alternatively, you can store the dish for a couple of days.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you don't want to use cream, try with some equally creamy robiola, making sure to dilute it with some milk or pasta cooking water. Fresh spreadable cheese or ricotta are also good options, but the consistency and flavor will be different, and the cheeses will add an acidic note to the dish.

