name:
Troccoli with baby spinach pesto and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Fresh troccoli: 11.3oz(320 g)
Spinach: 7oz(200 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- (to be grated)
Whole peeled hazelnuts: 1.1oz(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6tbsp(80 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Piccadilly tomatoes: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Sugar: 5tsp(20 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the troccoli with baby spinach pesto and cherry tomatoes, first take care of the roasted cherry tomatoes: wash and dry the cherry tomatoes, then cut them in half and place them cut side down on a baking tray lined with parchment paper. Season them with salt , olive oil , pepper
sugar , and thyme . Cook in a preheated static oven at 320°F for about 1 hour. After about 45 minutes, put a pot of water on the stove and bring it to a boil, it will be used for cooking the troccoli. When it is almost time to cook the pasta, prepare the pesto: in a high-rimmed bowl, place the washed and dried baby spinach, peeled whole hazelnuts ,
the peeled whole clove of garlic , and the grated cheese . Lastly, pour the oil and blend with an immersion blender.
You should obtain a homogeneous and creamy consistency , then adjust the salt and set aside. Meanwhile, the cherry tomatoes will be cooked, remove them from the oven and let them cool slightly . Cook the pasta al dente, following the times indicated on the package .
Pour the pesto into a pan , then drain the pasta here . Add a ladle of cooking water to the pesto in the pan and mix everything well with the heat off.
Finally, add the cherry tomatoes , leaving some aside for garnish, mix and serve the pasta hot .
We recommend consuming the baby spinach pesto pasta immediately.
It is possible to store the baby spinach pesto in a jar for 2 days in the fridge, covered with oil, or freeze it, always in a small jar.
You can store the roasted cherry tomatoes in the fridge in an airtight container for 3 days, but we do not recommend freezing them.
You can replace the hazelnuts with pine nuts or peeled almonds and add some aromatic herbs to your pesto: basil or parsley. Fresh pesto tends to oxidize, so we do not recommend preparing it too far in advance.

