name:
Lentil and Quartirolo Salad
ingredients:
Quartirolo Lombardo cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Spinach: 3.3cups(100 g)
Arugula: 4cups(100 g)
Walnut kernels: 10
Pumpkin seeds: 1.7tsp(5 g)- natural
Rosemary: to taste
Sage: to taste
Dried chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Precooked lentils: ½cup(100 g)
Parsley: to taste
Lemon peel: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ¼tbsp(20 g)
Balsamic vinegar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the lentil and quartirolo salad, start by flavoring the pre-cooked lentils. In a saucepan where you have heated oil and garlic, pour the drained lentils . Then add the grated lemon zest, salt and let it simmer on low heat for 5-10 minutes . At the end of cooking, turn off the heat and add the finely chopped parsley ,
remove the garlic and let cool . Meanwhile, finely chop sage and rosemary and slice the quartirolo into half-inch slices .
Return to the stove, heat a non-stick pan with a drop of oil, scent the bottom with the mix of chopped herbs and a crumbled chili pepper . Next, add the cheese slices and cook them over high heat for a couple of moments on one side and then on the other .
At the end of cooking, both sides will be slightly melted but firm . While the cheese cools, prepare the balsamic vinaigrette. In a bowl, pour the oil and a bit of balsamic vinegar . Add salt
and emulsify everything with a fork . Move on to the composition. In a bowl, pour the baby spinach and arugula , garnish with some lentils ,
garnish with walnut kernels and pumpkin seeds . Then place some quartirolo slices on top and finally garnish with the vinaigrette and complete your salad, quartirolo and lentils with a pinch of pepper: enjoy your meal !
Once the lentil and quartirolo salad is dressed, it is preferable to consume it immediately.
You can take it with you to work, closed in an airtight container and stored in the fridge for a few hours.
Instead of walnuts, choose other dried fruits such as cashews or almonds.
Instead of balsamic vinegar for the vinaigrette, you can use classic vinegar, apple vinegar, or even lemon juice, for a fresh Citronette .
You can transform this salad as you wish, in winter be sure to use escarole and radicchio!
You can enjoy the salad with homemade Taralli (Round breadsticks) or Breadsticks !

