name:
Pasta with tuna and eggplants
ingredients:
Fusilli pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Tuna filet: 7.1oz(200 g)
Eggplant: 12.4oz(350 g)
Yellow onions: 1.75oz(50 g)
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Coarse salt: to taste- for the eggplants

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the time to purge the eggplants

instructions:
To prepare pasta with eggplants and tuna, start by washing and drying the eggplants. First, slice them, then cut them into strips, and finally into cubes of about 3/4 inch . Sprinkle the eggplants with some coarse salt (without overdoing it). Place a plate with a weight on top and let them purge for at least half an hour . Before using them in the recipe, remember to rinse them thoroughly and pat them dry. Crush the garlic with the flat side of a knife ,
clean and finely chop the onion with a knife , finely mince the parsley , and finish by crumbling the drained tuna fillets with a knife .
Move to the stove and put the pot on the heat where the pasta will be cooked when it's boiling, so you can salt it to taste . In the meantime, place a large saucepan, and prepare the dressing, let the garlic clove and onion sizzle for a minute over low heat . Then pour in the pine nuts and let them toast for a minute as well .
and finally add the tuna letting it flavor for about another minute . At this point, you can add the well-rinsed and drained eggplants and let them cook for 5-10 minutes. Remove the garlic ,
add the parsley and drain the pasta directly into the sauce . A quick toss and you can finally plate your tuna and eggplant pasta .
Pasta with eggplants and tuna can be stored for one day in the refrigerator and, if desired, consumed cold.
Want to make your pasta with eggplants and tuna more special? Add tomatoes, perhaps cherry tomatoes, you can also add some olives! For a cold version, don't forget to add delicious pieces of mozzarella or cheese of your choice such as mild provolone, feta, or primo sale.

