name:
Marbled Coconut and Coffee Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(220 g)
Eggs: 3- (medium, at room temperature)
Sugar: 0.7cup(140 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp(8 g)
Whole milk: 2tbsp(30 g)- (at room temperature)
Fine salt: ½tsp
Powdered sugar: to taste- for garnish
Shredded coconut: 0.3cup(20 g)
Coffee: 7tsp(30 g)- (from the moka pot at room temperature)
Type 00 flour: 3 ¾tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the marbled coconut and coffee cake, start by making coffee with the moka pot and let it cool. Separate the eggs into two bowls and start whipping the egg whites, adding 20 g of sugar and then the salt . Beat until stiff peaks form, then set aside .
Place the butter in a bowl and beat with an electric mixer, gradually adding the remaining 120 g of sugar so that it incorporates well . After a few minutes, the mixture will be light and fluffy. Now proceed by adding the eggs one by one, ensuring they are well incorporated .
Sift the flour and baking powder into the mixture , adding a little at a time while continuing to mix with the beaters on a lower speed . Once the mix is absorbed, pour in the milk and remove the beaters once incorporated .
Use a spatula to fold in the whipped egg whites in two parts: the first part will help soften the mixture , and the second will add lightness, so fold gently, moving from the bottom up . At this point, divide the batter into two bowls .
In the first bowl, pour the coffee at room temperature and then the sifted flour , gently mix with a whisk and set aside .
Move to the other batter, add the shredded coconut , and mix gently with the whisk again . This avoids deflating the mixture .
Butter and line an 8-inch pan with parchment paper, pour the coconut batter first , then the coffee batter, trying not to distribute it too evenly . Doing so will make it easier to create the marbled effect with the help of a wooden skewer (or a fork if you don't have one) .
Your cake is ready to be baked in a static oven, preheated to 350°F for about 45 minutes . Once baked, let it cool slightly before removing from the mold and allowing it to cool completely on a wire rack. Finally, dust with powdered sugar and transfer your marbled coconut and coffee cake to a plate to serve .
The marbled coconut and coffee cake keeps well for 2-3 days under a glass dome.
What ingredient pairs well with both coffee and coconut? Chocolate!
Try enhancing the batter of your marbled coconut and coffee cake with delicious chocolate chips added on top before baking!
If you only have instant coffee available, measure and heat the same amount of water indicated in the ingredients, heat and replace the moka by dissolving the instant coffee.

