name:
Vegetarian sandwich with peppers and eggs
ingredients:
Durum wheat rolls: 2- (turtle type)
Red peppers: 1lb(450 g)
Edam cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- (sliced)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Mint: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sour cream: ½cup(100 g)
Chives: to taste
Eggs: 2

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the time needed to let the peppers cool down

instructions:
To prepare the vegetarian sandwich with peppers and eggs, start with the peppers. Wash them, dry them, and place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper . Bake them in a preheated convection oven at 428°F for about 50 minutes, turning them halfway through. Once cooked , transfer them to a bowl and cover them, allowing them to cool slightly .
Once they have cooled slightly, it will be easier to peel them and remove the seeds and filaments inside . Cut them into strips, place them in a bowl, and season with garlic, a few mint leaves , salt, pepper, and oil. Mix and set aside .
In the meantime, prepare the sauce. In a bowl, pour the sour cream, chop the chives with a pair of scissors, and season with salt, pepper, and oil . Mix and set this aside as well . Now place the bottom halves of the sandwich on a baking sheet with parchment paper, add the cheese slices, and bake in a hot oven for a few minutes

just until the cheese melts. If you wish, you can also warm up the other two top halves of the sandwiches . You will have enough time to cook the sunny-side-up eggs. In a hot skillet with a drizzle of oil, crack the eggs, you can use a small plate or bowl to slide the eggs, one at a time, into the skillet . Season with salt and pepper and when they have reached your desired doneness, we recommend a runny yolk, you can fill the sandwiches .
On the two halves with melted cheese, retrieved from the oven, first place the peppers , then the fried eggs, and spread the sour cream sauce on the other two halves (the top part of the sandwiches, to be clear) . Finally, close and enjoy your sandwiches with roasted peppers and eggs right away .
You can enjoy the sandwiches as soon as they are ready, or slightly warm or cold.
The roasted peppers can be stored in the fridge in an airtight container for 1-2 days.
Don't you find the vegetarian sandwich with peppers and eggs so inviting? Then you can enrich the sauce: instead of sour cream, try using robiola or Greek yogurt.
You can add flavor to the peppers with balsamic vinegar.
You can also vary the sliced cheese, ranging from milder ones, like white scamorza, to aged ones like caciocavallo.

