name:
Whole wheat flatbread with asparagus and Grana
ingredients:
Whole grain farro flour: 2cups(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: ½tsp(3 g)- (1 if dry)
Fine salt: to taste
Asparagus: 10.5oz(300 g)
Wild asparagus: 7.1oz(200 g)- or asparagine
Grana Padano PDO cheese: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the whole wheat flatbread with asparagus and Grana, let's start with the leavened dough. In a jug with room temperature water, pour the yeast and dissolve it with a fork . Then, in a bowl, combine the whole wheat spelt flour with all-purpose flour .
Form a well in the middle and pour the water little by little while stirring with a wooden spoon . When you have poured about half of it, add the salt and then the rest of the water .
Transfer the mixture to the work surface and knead it briefly to make it smooth and form a ball . Place it in a bowl, cover with a very clean cloth, and let it double in size: this will take about 3 hours .
Meanwhile, let's take care of cleaning the asparagus and wild asparagus; cut the white and tough part of the stalks . Then, peel them with a vegetable peeler and finally cut them in half lengthwise .
After the time has elapsed, retrieve the leavened dough , pour it into a well-oiled rectangular baking tray , and spread it carefully to fill the perimeter .
Make sure to rise a couple of inches on the edges and then orderly distribute the asparagus and wild asparagus on the flatbread : gently press them into the dough with your fingertips .
At this point, let it rest for 15 minutes , then season with salt and pepper and drizzle with some oil .
Bake the flatbread at 410°F for about 10 minutes , take it out of the oven and grate some cheese on top , then put it back in the oven for another 10 minutes .
After the time has elapsed, retrieve the flatbread , add the Grana shavings , a touch of thyme, and oil, and your whole wheat flatbread with asparagus and Grana is ready, enjoy your meal !
The whole wheat flatbread with asparagus and Grana can be stored for a couple of days and reheated at the time. Freezing is not recommended.
Add a fresh and flavorful note to your whole wheat flatbread with asparagus and Grana with some grated lemon zest or toasted hazelnuts roughly chopped with a knife.

