name:
Salmon fillets with asparagus and cream
ingredients:
Salmon steaks: 4- (approximately 500 grams total)
Asparagus: 8.8oz(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.42cup(100 g)
White wine: 1.75oz(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Type 00 flour: 1tsp
Lemon peel: 1
Thyme: 1sprig
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Vegetable broth: 0.4cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the salmon fillets with asparagus and cream, start by rinsing the asparagus. Cut them so that they are all the same length, discarding the white, woody part . Then, using a peeler or a smooth knife, remove the tips along the stem, leaving the top intact . Cut them in half lengthwise .
In a saucepan, heat two peeled garlic cloves in a mixture of oil and butter . Add the asparagus and let them sizzle for a couple of minutes .
Then it's time for the salmon fillets, place them skin-side down over the heat . Sear them well for 2-3 minutes without turning and then deglaze with white wine. Let it evaporate .
Then add salt, pour in the cream , broth , and lower the heat, cover with a lid. Cook gently for about 10 minutes .
Remove the asparagus and fillets from the cooking liquid, keep them warm by covering with a lid , also remove the garlic cloves . Mix a teaspoon of flour with a little cold water
and add to the pan , thicken by stirring continuously for about 1 minute . Plate the salmon with asparagus ,
garnish with a pinch of crumbled chili pepper , a pinch of pepper, some thyme, and lemon zest . Nap with the sauce, and your salmon fillet with asparagus is ready, enjoy your meal .
It is recommended to consume the salmon fillet with asparagus immediately to preserve the texture of the fish, vegetables, and sauce.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you want to make your salmon fillet with asparagus even more fragrant, you can add chives or marjoram! Or toast some cashews in the pan and crumble them directly on the plate before serving.

