name:
Caprese nests of spaghetti
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 9.9oz(280 g)
Tomato purée: 1.67cups(400 g)
Mozzarelline ciliegine cheese: 8
Cherry tomatoes: 4
Grana Padano PDO cheese: to taste- (to be grated)
Yellow onions: 1- small
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: to taste- for the baking pan

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the caprese nests of spaghetti, start with the sauce. Peel the onion and finely chop it; you can also use a mixer . In a saucepan, pour a little olive oil and let the onion sauté over low heat, stirring occasionally . After a few minutes, add the tomato puree , adjust with salt, and let it cook over low heat for about 45 minutes , stirring occasionally.
At the end of cooking, the sauce should be reduced . Bring the water to a boil to cook the spaghetti about 20 minutes before the sauce is ready. Then cook them when it is almost done . 2-3 minutes before the end of cooking, drain them directly into the tomato sauce .
Let them absorb the flavors for a moment longer . Then, season with hand-torn basil leaves and a pinch of pepper .
Turn off the heat and grease a muffin tin with a little butter (or oil) . Form the nests directly in the tin , making sure to leave a little space in the center .
Sprinkle the surface with a little grated Grana Padano DOP and bake in the oven for about 15 minutes in grill mode to brown the surface . When the nests are ready
transfer them to the serving dish and place a cherry mozzarella + one cut in half in each hollow . And, for each nest, add ¼ of a cherry tomato and a basil leaf. Another pinch of pepper and enjoy your meal .
It is advisable to consume the caprese nests immediately to not lose taste and fragrance. You can store them for a few days in the fridge.
You can prepare the sauce in advance and then continue with the recipe.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can make a nice fresh tomato sauce to cook your caprese nests! Instead of onion, you can use shallots, which will make your sauce more fragrant.
Finally, to not lose the crunchy note of bread – which usually accompanies caprese salad – add toasted breadcrumbs or crumbled 'taralli sugna e pepe' on top!

