name:
Soft gluten-free lemon cookies
ingredients:
Gluten free flour mix: 2cups(250 g)
Lemon juice: 1oz(30 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Butter: ¼cup(60 g)- soft
Eggs: 1.7oz(48 g)- about 1 small, cold
Brown sugar: 5tbsp(60 g)
Gluten free powdered yeast for sweets: 1.4tsp(7 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Brown sugar: ⅛cup(30 g)
Gluten free powdered sugar: 1.1oz(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 25 pieces
Note + 1 hour of resting in the fridge

instructions:
To make soft gluten-free lemon cookies, pour the gluten-free flour mix into a bowl , the cold whole egg and the lemon juice .
Add the lemon zest , the brown sugar and a pinch of salt .
Pour the gluten-free baking powder and start working with your hands so that the powders absorb the liquids . Then continue adding the softened butter in small pieces a little at a time , kneading gradually to absorb one piece at a time.
Once you have a homogeneous dough , form a loaf and wrap it in plastic wrap . Let it rest in the refrigerator for 1 hour.
After this time, retrieve the dough, take portions of about 0.63 oz each and form balls: with this dough, you will get about 25 pieces. Roll each ball first in brown sugar and then in gluten-free powdered sugar .
Place the balls gradually on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 15 minutes. Once the baking time is up , transfer the soft gluten-free lemon cookies to a wire rack and let them cool completely. The soft gluten-free lemon cookies are ready to be enjoyed !
Soft gluten-free lemon cookies can be stored at room temperature for a week; we recommend keeping them in a tin box to best preserve their texture. It is not recommended to freeze the formed cookies or the baked ones, but you can freeze the dough once ready or store it in the refrigerator for a few days.
You can use 3 tbsps of vegetable oil instead of butter!
For gluten-free recipes, we recommend purchasing only products that display the crossed-out wheat symbol on the package, certified gluten-free, as recommended by the AIC Italian Celiac Association's guidelines.

