name:
Tagliatelle with meatballs and zucchini flowers
ingredients:
Egg Tagliatelle pasta: 10.6oz(300 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to grate)
Zucchini flowers: 6
Black pepper: to taste
Sausage: 0.7lb(300 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Parsley: to taste
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp
Thyme: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Tomato paste: 1spoonful
White wine: 0.7cup(160 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare tagliatelle with meatballs and zucchini flowers, start with the meatballs. Peel the sausage , place it in a bowl, and mash it with a fork . Add the egg ,
perfume with a sprig of chopped parsley , sweet paprika , and strip the thyme leaves ,
finally add the breadcrumbs , salt, and pepper, and mix everything well . Begin forming meatballs no larger than a cherry .
Prepare the sauce. In a saucepan, brown a clove of garlic in the oil, add the butter , add the tomato paste , and pour in the meatballs .
Let them brown well, but don't turn them too often , and when they are well browned, deglaze with white wine . Lower the temperature and simmer for 15 minutes .
Take advantage of this time to clean the zucchini flowers: remove the stems and the pistil inside . Open the flower and make sure there is no dirt inside; if there is, simply clean it with a brush or a clean napkin. Then cut into strips .
Then boil the tagliatelle in salted boiling water , when they are al dente, drain them into the pan , add the zucchini flower strips
and toss briefly . Plate and season with Grana Padano PDO and black pepper to taste . Here are your tagliatelle with meatballs and zucchini flowers ready, enjoy your meal !
It is recommended to consume tagliatelle with meatballs and zucchini flowers immediately; alternatively, you can store them for a maximum of one day in the refrigerator.
Freezing is not recommended.
Do you want a vegetarian version of your tagliatelle with meatballs and zucchini flowers? Well, prepare eggplant meatballs! If you're looking for a gluten-free alternative, we have that too: instead of pasta, use rice noodles, paying attention to the cooking time of the pasta.

