name:
Beer buns with spring Russian salad
ingredients:
Whole grain farro flour: 0.6cup(75 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.4cups(175 g)
Dark beer: 1cup(250 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 2 ¾tsp(8 g)
Soy milk: 1tbsp(15 g)- at room temperature
Fine salt: to taste
Carrots: ½cup(60 g)
Potatoes: 3.5oz(100 g)
Asparagus: 5.3oz(150 g)
Fava beans: 2.8oz(80 g)- already shelled
Peas: 0.7cup(100 g)
Soy milk: 0.21cup(50 g)
Vegetable oil: ½cup(100 g)
Raspberry vinegar: 1spoonful- (or apple)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the beer buns with spring Russian salad, let's start with the dough. In a bowl, pour the all-purpose flour and whole spelt flour , add the instant yeast for savory preparations and then pour in the beer .
Add the soy beverage as well . Start mixing with a wooden spoon then season with salt .
At this point, you'll have obtained a batter , pour it into 6 already greased mini loaf pans with extra virgin olive oil and proceed with baking .
The beer buns bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 35 minutes . In the meantime, prepare the spring Russian salad . Peel the carrots and cut them into cubes of 0.5-1 inch maximum. Do the same with the potatoes .
Cut the asparagus into pieces, removing the stalk and tips . Proceed with cooking: in a steamer, cook the potatoes and carrots for 15 minutes , then add the asparagus and shelled fava beans ,
and the peas . Continue cooking for another 10 minutes , then turn off the heat and transfer the vegetables to a bowl to cool. Meanwhile, prepare the mock mayonnaise. In the mixer bowl, pour the soy milk, the oil ,
vinegar, and salt , then blend everything with an immersion blender until you have obtained a thick sauce .
In the bowl with the vegetables, pour a little oil and also season with the mayonnaise . Mix everything well .
Cut the buns in half and place a generous portion of Russian salad in the middle , add a few watercress leaves and sliced radishes . Here are your beer buns with spring Russian salad ready!
Once ready, the beer buns with Russian salad can be stored for a couple of days, but it's better to keep the bread separate from the salad!
Alternatively, you can prepare the two components separately.
Is there a vegetable you're not convinced about in your beer buns with Russian salad? No problem, just substitute according to taste and seasonal availability. Don't forget some sun-dried tomatoes for even more intense flavor!

