name:
Savory pancakes with Grana Padano PDO sauce
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)- (Reserve Over 20 months) for grating
Butter: 1.8tbsp(25 g)- melted and cooled
Whole milk: 0.9cup(210 g)
Eggs: 3.5oz(100 g)- (approximately 2)
Baking soda: ½tsp(2 g)
Sweet Paprika: ½tsp
Fine salt: 1pinch
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (Riserva Oltre 20 mesi) to grate
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)
Type 00 flour: 2tbsp(15 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare savory pancakes with Grana Padano PDO sauce, start with the pancake batter: melt the butter over very low heat and set aside. Separate the eggs, placing yolks and whites in two different bowls. Whip the egg whites and set them aside. In the bowl with the yolks, pour the now-cooled melted butter, salt, sweet paprika , and baking soda
and use a hand whisk to mix well until a homogeneous mixture is obtained. Pour the milk in a thin stream , incorporating it well by mixing with the whisk. Add a couple of tablespoons of flour
and mix again . Continue to gradually add the flour and mix to avoid forming lumps. Pour the grated Grana Padano PDO
and mix again. Take the egg whites and incorporate them into the mixture a little at a time, using a spatula with rotating movements from bottom to top to prevent the mixture from deflating .
Heat a non-stick pan over low heat and grease it with a little butter, removing the excess with a paper towel. Pour 1 heaping tablespoon of the mixture to make a disk about 3-4 inches in diameter. When bubbles start to form on the surface, you can flip the pancakes and finish cooking on the other side . It will take about 2-3 minutes of cooking for each pancake. Occasionally, you can grease the pan again with a little butter before continuing to cook the pancakes. You will get about 16 with these quantities.
As you go, you can stack your pancakes on a plate . Prepare the sauce: in a saucepan, pour the butter and when it is melted, add the flour, mix with a whisk , and cook until you get a golden roux.
At this point, pour in the whole milk , mix and bring to a boil . Add a pinch of pepper, the Grana Padano PDO
and mix until the sauce has thickened . The sauce is ready, serve it with your savory pancakes with Grana Padano PDO sauce .
It is recommended to consume the pancakes immediately or store them in the refrigerator for up to one day.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can use fresh herbs like thyme, marjoram, oregano, or rosemary to flavor the pancakes within the mixture.

