name:
Veg Roast
ingredients:
Wheat gluten: 7.1oz(200 g)
Dried tomatoes in oil: 6
Shallot: 1
Water: 1cup(250 g)- warm
Soy sauce: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Vegetable broth: to taste
Soy sauce: 1 ½tbsp(50 g)
Pomegranate: 1
Brown sugar: 2spoonfuls
Cornstarch: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Pomegranate: to taste- grains

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the time needed to prepare the vegetable broth

instructions:
It is the undisputed protagonist of Sunday lunches or family celebrations, always served with roasted potatoes: we are talking about roast ! Tender and flavorful, it's the dish that everyone agrees on at the table... or almost everyone! For your friends or guests who don't eat meat, we thought of an even more "democratic" version: the veg roast. It's made with wheat gluten, which when mixed with water—in our case combined with soy sauce, sun-dried tomatoes, and spices—forms seitan: this is the true success of this vegan dish, creating a meal from basic ingredients and customizing it as you prefer, for example by accompanying it with a vegetable stock. And to add a gourmet touch, we chose a delicious pomegranate sauce: the result will surprise even the most faithful meat eaters... try the veg roast to create your vegetarian Christmas menu!
To prepare the veg roast, clean and finely chop the shallot, then gently sauté it with a drizzle of oil in a pan . Once softened, pour it into the cup of an immersion blender and add the drained sun-dried tomatoes .
Pour in the soy sauce and lukewarm water , then blend thoroughly .
You should obtain a fluid and homogeneous mixture . In a large bowl, pour the wheat gluten and gradually add the blended mixture .
Mix until you get an elastic dough . When the dough has compacted, transfer it to a work surface, knead it briefly, and shape it into a small loaf with a slightly oval shape, like a mini roast .
Place the loaf on a perfectly clean natural fiber cloth and wrap it loosely , twisting the ends like a candy and tying them with a string .
Bring a pot with vegetable broth and soy sauce to a light boil, immerse the roast wrapped in the cloth, and cook for about an hour. After this time, drain and let cool slightly . In the meantime, prepare the pomegranate sauce: deseed the pomegranate .
Extract the juice by blending the seeds and straining the mixture in a saucepan to remove the seeds .
Add brown sugar and cornstarch to the juice. Mix with a whisk and let it thicken over low heat for a few minutes, stirring with a whisk. When it starts to thicken, add the oil and continue to emulsify. Turn off the heat and set aside.
Take the potatoes, wash them, and cut them first in half and then in quarters, without peeling them .
Take the mini roast: place it on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, then add the potatoes, garlic, and rosemary . Brush the mini roast generously with pomegranate sauce, making sure to keep some aside for plating. Also season with salt, pepper, and oil, and cook in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 35-40 minutes, placing the baking sheet in the center of the oven. If towards the end of cooking the roast is darkening too much while the potatoes still need a few more minutes to brown, you can cover it with aluminum foil. Once ready, remove from the oven and serve the veg roast in slices, topped with pomegranate sauce and accompanied by roasted potatoes, garnished as desired with pomegranate seeds !
The veg roast, boiled and before baking, can be stored in the fridge in its cooking broth for a couple of days, or longer if vacuum-sealed.
Once baked, if there are leftovers, the next day it can be sliced and used to make original veg scallops with pomegranate, following this procedure: melt a pat of butter (use oil or margarine for vegans) in a pan, flour the veg roast slices, and place them in the pan. Cook on both sides to toast the flour and create a slight crust, then deglaze with half a glass of pomegranate juice obtained by pressing the seeds. Adjust with salt and flavor with rosemary. Let it evaporate and serve immediately!
Wheat gluten consists of flour stripped of starches and can be easily purchased in organic food stores or online.
The dough can be "lightened" by cutting the wheat gluten with chickpea or pea flour; this will produce the so-called "wheat muscle"; in this case, the preparation remains the same.
In place of pomegranate, you can use currants or raspberries.

