name:
Pumpkin and Chocolate Brownies
ingredients:
Dark chocolate 55%: 8oz(225 g)
Butter: 3.9oz(110 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Brown sugar: ⅓cup(80 g)
Eggs: 2- large
Baking powder: 1tsp(4 g)
Powdered ginger: to taste
Cinnamon powder: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch
Pumpkin: 3cups(600 g)- (already cleaned)
Cream cheese: ½cup(120 g)
Eggs: 1- large
Sugar: 3tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 9
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pumpkin and chocolate brownies, first clean the pumpkin by removing the skin, seeds, and internal fibers, then cut 600 g of pulp into slices about 0.6-0.8 inches thick . Place the pumpkin slices on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake in a static oven at 350°F for 60-70 minutes, on the middle shelf of the oven; the pumpkin should be soft and dry .
Let it cool, then transfer the pumpkin to a blender and blend until you get about 250 g of smooth and homogeneous puree . Set aside. Now focus on the brownie batter: melt the chocolate with the butter in a double boiler .
Let it cool, then add the granulated sugar , brown sugar , and eggs .
Add a pinch of salt and 125 g of pumpkin puree , then mix until you get a homogeneous mixture .
Sift the flour and baking powder into the bowl, then mix again to incorporate the dry ingredients evenly and obtain a lump-free mixture.
Set aside 40 g of batter for decoration . Pour the rest of the mixture into an 8x8 inch pan lined with parchment paper , level the surface , and set aside.
To prepare the pumpkin cream, combine the cream cheese, the remaining 160 g of pumpkin puree , sugar , and spice mix in a bowl.
Mix everything , then add the egg and mix again to incorporate it .
Pour the pumpkin cream into the pan and level to cover the chocolate layer evenly . Now take the reserved brownie batter and distribute dollops on the surface, then create the marbled effect with a toothpick .
Bake in a preheated oven at 350°F for 40-45 minutes, on the lowest shelf of the oven . Once baking time is complete, remove from the oven and let cool . Once cooled, unmold and cut the brownie into squares on a serving dish or cutting board. Your pumpkin and chocolate brownies are ready to be served !
Pumpkin and chocolate brownies can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, in an airtight container.
If desired, you can add nuts to the brownie batter for a crunchy touch.
For an even more indulgent version, serve the pumpkin and chocolate brownies with a dollop of whipped cream!

