name:
Eggplant Ravioli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 2
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste- to roll out the dough
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Eggplant: 2.4cups(200 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Black pepper: to taste
Cherry tomatoes: 5.3oz(150 g)
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the eggplant ravioli, start by preparing the filling. Wash the eggplant well, trim it , and cut it into cubes . Sauté the chopped garlic clove (or whole, if you prefer to remove it) in the extra virgin olive oil .
Add the eggplants and let them flavor over high heat for a few minutes. Season with salt and continue cooking until the eggplants are very soft, stirring often to avoid burning them. At this point, remove from the heat and mash the eggplants with a fork until they become a puree .
In a bowl, place the ricotta, Grana cheese , and black pepper. Mix with a spoon and add the eggplants .
Mix again to combine the ingredients . Place the filling in a piping bag and keep it in the refrigerator until ready to use. Proceed to prepare the sauce. Wash and cut the cherry tomatoes into small pieces .
Sauté the garlic clove along with the extra virgin olive oil; add the cherry tomatoes and let them flavor over high heat for a couple of minutes. Season with salt, add a sprig of rosemary , and cook on low heat for 10 minutes .
Now prepare the ravioli. Pour the flour into a well on a work surface, add the eggs and fine salt . Lightly beat with a fork, then pour in the extra virgin olive oil .
Work with your hands until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough . For convenience, cut the dough into smaller portions; it will be easier to work with .
Proceed to form the ravioli: lightly flour the work surface with some semolina and roll out the dough with a rolling pin until you get a very thin sheet . Cut strips of dough about 3 inches wide. Take the ravioli filling from the refrigerator; squeeze small mounds of filling onto one of the dough sheets, spacing them apart . Cover with another strip of dough .
Gently press around the filling to bond the two sheets and release any excess air, thus preventing the ravioli from opening during cooking . Cut out the ravioli using a 2.5-inch diameter cutter . Continue until you've used all the ingredients .
Cook the ravioli in plenty of salted water for about 5 minutes . Drain them, transfer them to a plate , and dress them with the tomato and rosemary sauce . Decorate the plate with some rosemary sprigs and serve your eggplant ravioli immediately!
We recommend consuming the ravioli immediately. Alternatively, it's possible to freeze them uncooked.
To prevent the ravioli from sticking together while cooking, you can add a tablespoon of olive oil to the cooking water!

