name:
Gluten-free sheet pan pizza
ingredients:
Gluten free flour mix: 1.6cups(200 g)- (for bread and pizza)
Whole milk: (160 g)
Water: ¼cup(60 g)- at room temperature
Gluten free brewer's yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¼tsp(7 g)
Tomato purée: 0.67cup(150 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 4.2oz(120 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ⅓tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Gluten free flour mix: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)- for bread and pizza
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 2
Note + about 4 hours of rising

instructions:
To prepare the gluten-free sheet pan pizza, first pour the gluten-free flour mix into a large bowl , then add the milk at room temperature and the water also at room temperature .
Add the salt and the gluten-free dry yeast (alternatively, you can crumble 10 g of fresh yeast, always making sure to buy products with the crossed-out wheat symbol), then start mixing with a wooden spoon .
You should obtain a moist but consistent and homogeneous dough . At this point, transfer the dough to a container with a lid that is at least twice the height of the mixture , close it , and let it rise at room temperature for about 2 hours.
In the meantime, you can prepare the topping: pour the tomato sauce into a bowl and season with oil , salt , and pepper, then mix well and set aside.
After the rising time, take back the dough, which will be firm but quite sticky . This is normal: turn it onto a lightly floured work surface using a dough scraper. Flip the dough to the other side and gently press it with your fingers .
Grease a 8x8 inch pan with oil, both on the base and the edges , then transfer the dough inside . Press with your fingers to spread the dough over the entire surface of the pan, but be careful not to stretch it too much as, lacking gluten, it might tear .
Add the tomato onto the surface , spreading it evenly with the back of a spoon , then let it rise at room temperature for another 2 hours. If the topping seems a bit dry, cover the pan with a cloth. Meanwhile, cut the mozzarella into cubes .
Once risen , distribute the mozzarella over the pizza and bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for 25-30 minutes. Once cooked, take it out of the oven: your gluten-free sheet pan pizza will be ready to be shared and enjoyed !
The gluten-free sheet pan pizza can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day.
It can be frozen cooked or half-cooked.
It is not recommended to freeze the raw dough.
The gluten-free dough is not as elastic as the traditional one, so it tends to tear if stretched too much during rolling.
You can replace milk with water, but you will get a slightly less soft dough.
Instead of tomato puree, you can use chopped tomatoes, as well as add oregano to the topping or garnish your gluten-free pizza as you like!
For gluten-free recipes, we recommend buying only products that display the crossed-out wheat symbol on the package, certified gluten-free, recommended by the AIC Italian Celiac Association directory.

