name:
Coffee pound cake
ingredients:
Coffee: 12.3oz(350 g)- (from moka pot, long)
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Sunflower seed oil: ½cup(100 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Baking powder: 4tsp(16 g)
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(160 g)
Coffee: 0.9oz(25 g)- (from the moka pot, long)
Coffee beans: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the coffee pound cake, brew a long coffee with the moka (prepare a total of 13 oz to use both for the batter and the topping), and let it cool slightly. Take a large bowl and pour in the flour , instant baking powder , and sugar .
Incorporate the seed oil and 12 oz of cooled coffee , mix the mixture with a hand whisk until it becomes homogeneous .
Coarsely chop the dark chocolate , then add it to the mixture and stir one last time to incorporate . Butter and flour a pound cake pan measuring 10x4.5 inches and 2.75 inches high, pour the mixture inside .
Gently level the surface with a dough scraper or spatula and bake in a preheated static oven at 374°F for 20 minutes. After this time, lower the temperature to 320°F and continue baking for another 45 minutes. Remove the coffee pound cake from the oven and let it cool slightly , then remove it from the mold and let it cool completely. Meanwhile, prepare the coffee glaze: in a bowl, pour the powdered sugar and the remaining 1 oz of coffee .
Mix with the whisk to achieve a smooth and fluid sauce . Unmold the pound cake onto a plate, cover it with the glaze , and decorate with coffee beans. Wait for the glaze to solidify, then serve the coffee pound cake .
The coffee pound cake can be stored for about 4 days at room temperature, under a glass dome.
You can freeze it after baking and completely cooling it, without glaze.
The glaze will give a nice touch of sweetness to your coffee pound cake, so you may choose to omit it and simply garnish with powdered sugar.
If you only have instant coffee, just dilute the preferred amount in hot water, with the water amount equivalent to the weight of the moka coffee.

