name:
Calamari Salad
ingredients:
Calamari (squid): 12.3oz(350 g)- (already cleaned)
Cherry tomatoes: 1.7cups(250 g)
Carrots: 2- (medium)
Baked black olives: 3oz(80 g)
Almond slices: 4 ¼tbsp(30 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Green Peperoncino: 1pinch
Mint: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + marinating time

instructions:
To prepare the calamari salad, start by cleaning the squid. We use those that are already eviscerated, but in the cooking school, you will find how to clean them entirely. Then proceed by removing the skin and cutting the larger suckers. Next, cut into thick rings about an inch wide and chop the tentacles . Gather the pieces in a bowl and pour in some oil ,
a pinch of salt and a pinch of chili powder , some mint leaves, the juice of half a lemon, and mix everything well. Let it marinate for about twenty minutes . Meanwhile, proceed with the other ingredients. After cleaning the cherry tomatoes, cut them into quarters .
Clean the carrots, peel them and slice them , finally toast the almond slices in a pan for a few moments, being careful not to burn them; set them aside . At this point, the squid will be well flavored. Heat a grill and then pour them on it .
Let them cook for a few minutes, turning when a crust has formed . Transfer the cooked squid into a baking dish and add the cherry tomatoes, carrots , and pitted black olives .
Prepare the citronette by pouring some oil into a bowl and the juice of half a lemon (use equal amounts of the two liquids) , add some chopped parsley with a few mint leaves , a nice pinch of salt, and emulsify everything .
Pour the emulsion into the baking dish and mix well . Finally, garnish with the almond flakes, and your calamari salad is ready to enjoy .
Once the calamari salad is ready, you can store it in the refrigerator for no more than 1-2 days in a resealable container.
Freezing is not recommended.
Your calamari salad can become even tastier by adding, for example, grilled or even boiled shrimp tails if you want to appreciate their freshness. Instead of black olives, green ones are also fine, and for a touch of acidity that goes wonderfully with the smokiness, add some cubes of feta or quartirolo lombardo cheese!

