name:
Cocoa tartlets with cream and blackberries
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(370 g)
Butter: 6.3oz(180 g)- (cold from the fridge)
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 1.9oz(55 g)- (1 medium, at room temperature)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: ⅓cup(30 g)
Almond milk: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Egg yolks: 2- (medium)
Brown sugar: ¼cup(40 g)
Cornstarch: 3.67tsp(15 g)
Blackberry jam: ⅓cup(80 g)
Blackberries: 0.7cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time (about 1 hour)

instructions:
To prepare the cocoa tartlets with cream and blackberries, start with the shortcrust pastry. In a bowl, pour the butter, sugar, and salt . Work quickly with your hands until the ingredients are combined , and add the egg .
Work again for a few seconds, still with your hands . When you have obtained a homogeneous mixture, add the previously sifted flour and the cocoa also sifted .
Work with your hands until you get a homogeneous dough . Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the cream. Pour the almond milk into a saucepan and bring it to a light boil. In another saucepan, combine egg yolks and sugar , then immediately mix with a whisk .
Add the cornstarch and mix again with the whisk . Pour the hot milk into the egg mixture and mix well, then return to the heat.
Continuing to stir bring the cream to a boil. Pour the ready cream into a bowl and cover with cling film in contact. Let it cool in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour .
Roll out the pastry to a thickness of 0.2 inches . At this point, take 8 molds with a diameter of 3.14 inches at the base and 3.93 inches on the surface. Place an inverted mold on the pastry and cut out a slightly larger disc . Line the molds with the pastry discs by applying light pressure with your fingers .
At this point, using a knife with a smooth blade, remove the excess dough . Pour a teaspoon of jam inside and spread it on the base . Repeat this operation for all the molds and gradually transfer them to a baking tray .
Bake the tartlets in a ventilated oven at 356°F for 20 minutes. Remove them from the oven and let them cool . At this point, take the cream from the refrigerator and work it with a spatula to make it creamier. Unmold the tartlets
and pour the cream inside with a spoon . Slightly level the surface and decorate with fresh blackberries . Finish with mint leaves and a dusting of powdered sugar .
The cocoa tartlets with cream and blackberries can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
The cocoa shortcrust pastry can be frozen for about 1 month.
The cream can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.

You can flavor the cocoa shortcrust pastry with cinnamon powder or other spices!

