name:
Cauliflower and Radicchio Flan
ingredients:
Cauliflower: 2lbs(900 g)- (to clean)
Radicchio: 0.6lb(250 g)
White onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 4spoonfuls
Breadcrumbs: 2spoonfuls
Butter: to taste
Unsalted pistachios: ½cup(60 g)- shelled

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the cauliflower and radicchio flan, clean the cauliflower by removing the green leaves and the central stalk, and with the help of a straight-edged knife, detach all the florets, dividing the larger ones in half . Transfer the cleaned florets into a colander and rinse them under cold water .
Put a pot full of water on the stove and as soon as it boils, plunge the cauliflower florets , boiling them for about 10 minutes; the consistency should remain rather firm since it will be sautéed in a pan and then continue cooking in the oven. Drain the cauliflower in a bowl and set aside . Peel the onion and slice it thinly .
Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the onion and fry gently in a large pan. As soon as the onion is golden, add the cauliflower , season with salt
and pepper , stir and let everything flavor for 5-6 minutes. Meanwhile, clean the radicchio by removing the central core, slice it thinly and add it to the pan with the cauliflower , stir, and toss for a few seconds to avoid wilting it too much
Turn off the heat and set aside . Put the shelled pistachios in a mortar, pound them vigorously to obtain a coarse chop and transfer them to a small bowl .
Preheat the oven to 392°F in static mode. Butter 4 ramekins with a diameter of about 4.33 inches then sprinkle the inside with breadcrumbs . Fill each ramekin with cauliflower and radicchio, add a pinch of breadcrumbs on top
and a teaspoon of grated Grana Padano cheese . Finish with the chopped pistachios and bake for about 15 minutes, gratinating the last minutes of cooking with the grill to brown the surface. Take the cauliflower and radicchio ramekins with pistachios out of the oven and serve them hot .
You can store the cauliflower and radicchio flan in the refrigerator, in a food container, for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of pistachios, you can choose other nuts you like or some raisins.

