name:
Chocolate Canestrelli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Potato starch: 3tbsp(50 g)
Butter: 0.57cup(130 g)- soft
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 2.5oz(70 g)- cooked (about 5)
Dark chocolate 70%: 0.7oz(20 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 42 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for the shortcrust pastry (at least 30 min.)

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate canestrelli, start by cooking the eggs to make them hard-boiled: it will take 8 minutes in boiling water . At this point, drain the eggs, peel them , and keep only the yolks. Weigh 70 g of yolks and transfer them to a bowl .
Crush the yolks with a fork . Chop the chocolate and melt it in a bain-marie or in the microwave, then let it cool slightly. Add the softened butter to the yolks and work with a rubber spatula until a creamy consistency is obtained .
Add the melted chocolate that has cooled slightly and mix the mixture with a spatula , then add the powdered sugar .
Also add the flour and cornstarch . Stir the mixture with your hands until a homogeneous mixture is obtained , then transfer it to a surface and work it for a couple more minutes .
Form a dough ball , wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. After this time, take the shortcrust pastry, place it on a floured surface, and lightly dust the dough ball as well . Roll out the dough with a rolling pin until it reaches a thickness of 1/8 inch.

Using a flower-shaped cutter of approximately 2 inches, cut out the cookies and transfer them onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Knead the scraps again, roll them out, and cut them until all the dough is used .
Using a 1/3 inch nozzle, make a hole in the center of the cookies . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F on the middle-lower rack for 15 minutes. Remove the chocolate canestrelli from the oven and let them cool completely before decorating them with powdered sugar and serving .
The chocolate canestrelli can be stored for a week in a tin box. You can freeze the cookie dough or the already formed but still raw cookies.
Flavor the dough with a pinch of cinnamon or half a vanilla bean.

