name:
Asparagus bundles
ingredients:
Asparagus: 12.5oz(350 g)- about 20 stalks
Puff pastry: 1- rectangular roll of 230 g
Lemon peel: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Greek yogurt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the asparagus bundles, start with the cleaning of the asparagus. Arrange them all in a row so that you can cut them evenly to the same size. Then, using a smooth blade, cut them into sticks that are 8 inches long and peel them to remove the skin with the small tips : obviously do not discard the tip. Rinse and drain well .
Meanwhile, sauté a cleaned garlic clove and a sliced chili pepper in a dash of oil , as soon as the base is hot add the asparagus and sauté them briefly . Season with salt and pepper, remove the garlic, and turn off the heat .
Then add the grated lemon zest . Mix well and let it cool slightly . Meanwhile, retrieve the puff pastry, unroll it, and cut it into 4 parts to obtain rectangles .
Turn each rectangle to form a diamond shape and place 5 asparagus on each side. Moisten the right tip with mixed yolk and cream and close by placing the flap on the opposite side.
Then brush the surface and close with the other flap forming a bundle . Repeat this for all, make sure to seal the ends well, and place on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Brush the surface
and sprinkle with poppy seeds . Bake in the oven at 428°F for about 10 minutes . Plate your asparagus bundles accompanied by a spoonful of refreshing Greek yogurt .
It is recommended to consume the asparagus bundles immediately.
Alternatively, you can store them for a couple of days, but the crispness of the pastry will be lost.
The lemon zest will add a nice burst of fragrance and refreshing flavor to your asparagus bundles. However, you can do without it! If you prefer herbs, then definitely go for thyme, fresh oregano, or possibly marjoram. Instead of poppy seeds, you can also add coarsely chopped hazelnuts.

