name:
Vegan shepherd's pie
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Dry white beans: 2cups(400 g)
Peeled plum tomatoes: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Friggitelli (chili peppers): 8.8oz(250 g)
Fresh scallion: 6.3oz(180 g)
Celery: 5.3oz(150 g)- with leaves
Carrots: 1 ⅓cup(150 g)
Water: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Bay leaves: 3leaves
Oregano: to taste- fresh
Nutmeg: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 3 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the soaking time for the beans (about 12 h)

instructions:
To prepare the vegan shepherd’s pie, first, soak the dry beans for about 12 hours, then pour them into a pot with plenty of water , add the bay leaves , and cook for at least 2 hours . The beans should be cooked but not falling apart.
Also, boil the potatoes for about 30-40 minutes, depending on their size . Meanwhile, prepare the rest of the ingredients: remove the top end of the friggitelli and remove the seeds inside , then cut them into pieces .
Clean and cut into pieces the spring onions , carrots , and celery, with all its leaves .
Pour the spring onions into a large pan with a drizzle of oil and let them wilt for a few minutes, then add the carrots and friggitelli .
Add the celery , stir and sauté over medium heat for a couple of minutes, then pour in the peeled tomatoes and 400 ml of water .
Salt, pepper , and add the beans, which you have previously drained . Cover with a lid and cook over low heat for at least 20 minutes .
In the meantime, the potatoes will be cooked, so mash them in a large bowl and season with oil and nutmeg .
Add salt and pepper as well, and mix to obtain a smooth puree . After the vegetables have cooked, season with fresh oregano leaves .
Now pour the vegetable and bean mixture into a baking dish with a base diameter of 9 inches and a top diameter of 11 inches , then cover everything with the mashed potatoes . Spread the puree evenly with your hands, making sure to cover the edges well .
Score the surface with the prongs of a fork and drizzle with a little oil . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 40 minutes or until it is beautifully golden on the surface. Once cooked, remove and let the vegan shepherd’s pie cool for 10-15 minutes before serving !
The vegan shepherd’s pie can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in an airtight container. You can prepare the pie the day before and bake it before serving. Freezing is not recommended.
Feel free to replace the white beans with other varieties you have available! As an alternative to friggitelli, you can use bell peppers.

