name:
Noodles with shrimp and vegetables
ingredients:
Noodles: 9oz(250 g)
Shrimps: 0.6lb(250 g)- cleaned
Artichokes: 7oz(200 g)- already cleaned
Chard: 5.25oz(150 g)
Carrots: 1 ⅛cup(140 g)
Fresh scallion: 4.5oz(130 g)
Garlic: 3cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Fresh ginger: to taste
Cashews: 0.4cup(50 g)
Soy sauce: 3.3tbsp(50 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste
Lemon peel: 1
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare noodles with shrimp and vegetables, start by cutting the vegetables. After peeling the garlic cloves, slice them thinly , also cut the chili pepper and a piece of peeled ginger .
Next, move on to the carrots, peeling them and cutting them into sticks . Cut the scallion into pieces about 0.5 inch thick, including the green part . Also thinly slice the Swiss chard .
Now move on to the shrimp tails. The How to clean shrimp is very simple: remove the legs and shell , then pull out the black vein with a toothpick or a small knife . Finally, thinly slice the artichokes which have already been How to clean artichokes earlier, preventing them from oxidizing .
Before proceeding with cooking the vegetables, toast the cashews by placing them in a small pot with a little oil . Let them turn golden for a moment, without burning them , and then roughly chop them .
Now move on to cooking. In a saucepan, heat a little oil over high flame and add the garlic and chili pepper, then the artichokes . Stir-fry for a few moments and add the carrots , the scallion .
and drizzle with soy sauce . After a minute, add the Swiss chard and continue cooking for another 4-5 minutes. You have time to boil the rice noodles according to the cooking times indicated on the package .
When there is a minute left for the vegetables to finish cooking, add the shrimp, they need to cook very briefly, grate the lemon zest and add some basil leaves . Drain the noodles directly into the seasoning .
stir quickly and proceed with plating . Garnish with the cashews and enjoy, the noodles with shrimp and vegetables are ready !
It is recommended to consume the shrimp and vegetable noodles immediately.
Alternatively, you can store them for up to one day in the refrigerator.
For your noodles with shrimp and vegetables, choose them based on the season: green beans, cherry tomatoes, cabbage, or savoy cabbage according to your tastes! Additionally, to give a spiced note, sprinkle a dash of curry on the dish!

