name:
Braids with walnuts and chocolate
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Sourdough starter: 100- (refreshed 4 hours ago)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Eggs: 1
Butter: 4 ¼tbsp(60 g)- soft
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Walnut kernels: 1.75oz(50 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 1.8oz(50 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: 1.3tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low
Note +12 hours of leavening

instructions:
To make the walnut and chocolate braids, pour the flour into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook , add the sourdough starter , and pour in the milk . Turn on the mixer and start working the mixture.
Incorporate the egg , the salt , and the sugar .
Then add the butter a little piece at a time , allowing the previous piece to be incorporated before adding the next. Work for at least 10 minutes. When the dough is well combined , add the coarsely chopped walnuts .
Finally, add the chocolate chips , work for a few moments to incorporate them . Transfer the dough onto a lightly floured work surface .
Knead by hand to form a ball and place it in a bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for at least 4 hours, away from drafts .
Take back the dough, which will have doubled in volume , and divide it into 12 equal pieces using a dough scraper .
Take each piece and further divide it into three equal parts . With each piece, form a rope about 8 inches long . Overlap the ends, pressing the dough slightly .
Braid the three ropes . You should get a classic braid . Line a baking tray with parchment paper and place the braids on top .
Cover with plastic wrap . Let the braids rise for at least 8 hours in a warm place. After this time, prepare a mixture of egg yolk and milk. Brush the already risen braids with the mixture and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F on the middle rack for about 25 minutes. Remove the well-golden braids from the oven and let them cool completely before consuming .
The braids remain soft until the next day when stored in a food bag or airtight container. You can also freeze them after baking and take them out a couple of hours before consuming them, warming them in a hot oven for a minute to have them as soft as freshly baked.
To get braids of the same shape, just weigh the pieces of dough needed to create the ropes. This way, the braids will bake evenly!

