name:
Tajine with vegetables
ingredients:
New potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Baby carrots: 0.5lb(250 g)
Red spring onions: 5.3oz(150 g)
Green beans: 2 ¼cups(280 g)
Fava beans: 1cup(200 g)- shelled
Peas: 1cup(170 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Berberè: 1tsp
Garlic: 2cloves
Fine salt: to taste
Mint: to taste
Bulgur: 1.67cups(250 g)
Water: 500
Low-fat Yogurt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the vegetable tagine, start by washing and drying all the vegetables you will then cut in this way. Cut the baby potatoes in half ; first trim the green beans and then divide them in half or into three parts depending on the size ;
first trim the baby carrots and then cut them in two ; trim the spring onions
and cut them into 4 parts lengthwise . Now you can move on to the stove. In a tagine, made of cast iron or clay, add 2 cloves of garlic in their skins, crushed, the berbere and the chili pepper, chopped with a knife and deseeded .
Let the garlic brown and then discard it . At this point, you can add the potatoes, placing them with the cut side down on the pot to roast well, and cook for 3-4 minutes over medium heat . Then add in order to form layers, the carrots ,
along with the spring onions, the green beans , and the broad beans . Season with salt and cover with the typical lid .
Pour a few drops of cold water on the concave part of the lid and cook for about 40 minutes without ever opening . When the time has passed, lift the lid, perhaps using a cloth, and add the peas . Cover and cook for another 5 minutes .
In the meantime, if you like, you can take care of the bulgur. Pour it into a large bowl and pour over the boiling salted water . Cover with plastic wrap and let the water absorb for 10 minutes . At this point, everything should be ready so fluff the bulgur
and mix the vegetables, adjusting the salt if necessary . Finely chop a generous portion of fresh mint with a knife and compose your plate of vegetable tagine accompanied by a portion of bulgur and yogurt .
Ideally, the vegetable tagine should be consumed immediately, however, you can store everything in the fridge for a couple of days. The bulgur too.
Freezing is not recommended due to the vegetables, which may become soggy.
Berbere, the typical spice mix, is essential in vegetable tagine. If you cannot find it, try creating one by carefully mixing cumin, ginger, chili pepper, cloves, but also pepper, coriander, rue, and ajowan!

