name:
Baked trofie with squid and cauliflower
ingredients:
Trofie pasta: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Calamari (squid): 1.3lbs(600 g)
Cauliflower: 2.6lbs(1.2 kg)
Cherry tomatoes: 2cups(300 g)
Onions: ½
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(100 g)
Water: to taste
Parsley: to taste- to chop
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: 1.4oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Water: 2.9cups(700 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make baked trofie with squid and cauliflower, first prepare all the ingredients. To clean the squid, start by gently detaching the head from the mantle, then remove the skin and extract the cartilage pen inside . Rinse the cleaned squid under running water , then cut both the mantle and tentacles into small pieces . For more information on the procedure, you can consult our guide on cleaning squid.
Remove the base and leaves of the cauliflower, then separate the florets (you should obtain about 500 g usable) and cut them into small pieces as well . Cut the cherry tomatoes into quarters .
Finally, finely chop the onion . Now heat a drizzle of oil in a large pan and briefly sauté the onion , then add the cauliflower and let it flavor for a few minutes .
Add the tomatoes as well , season with salt and pepper, and pour in the water , then lower the heat, cover with a lid , and cook for about 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, bring a pot of water to boil for cooking the pasta and prepare the water bechamel: pour the flour and oil into a small saucepan and stir with a whisk over low heat for a couple of minutes , then turn off the heat and pour in the water .
Mix well and season with salt and pepper. Put the saucepan back on the heat and let it thicken, stirring continuously; you should obtain a fairly liquid consistency . When the water for the pasta reaches a boil, salt it and blanch the trofie for a minute .
After draining the trofie, place them in a large bowl and coat with a drizzle of oil to prevent them from sticking . When the 20 minutes of cooking the sauce have passed, add the squid and cook for another 5-7 minutes .
Pour the sauce into the bowl with the pasta along with the bechamel and the chopped parsley , then mix well to combine everything.
Transfer the seasoned pasta into a baking dish and sprinkle the top with breadcrumbs , then drizzle with a bit of oil . Bake in a preheated fan oven at 392°F for about 10 minutes, until golden brown on top. Remove your baked trofie with squid and cauliflower from the oven and serve !
You can store the baked trofie with squid and cauliflower in the refrigerator for one day. Alternatively, you can freeze them after cooking and letting them cool completely, if you used only fresh ingredients.
To achieve a more intense sea flavor, you can replace the water for the bechamel with fish stock!

