name:
Croque monsieur
ingredients:
White bread loaf: 12slices- thick
Prosciutto cotto: 10.5oz(300 g)
Comté cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 1.9cups(450 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅓cup(45 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(45 g)
Salt: 1pinch
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 12 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the croque monsieur, start with the béchamel sauce: in a saucepan, melt the butter , add the flour , and cook over low heat for 2-3 minutes while stirring with a whisk. Then, gradually pour in the milk .
Bring the sauce to a gentle boil, stirring continuously with the whisk. Flavor with grated nutmeg , salt, and pepper . Once thickened, transfer the béchamel sauce to a bowl .
Cover with plastic wrap and let it cool in the refrigerator. Slice the bread , spread the béchamel sauce on two slices .
Grate the cheese , it should be a generous amount . Add salt .
Add pepper and fill with slices of ham . Place one slice on top of the other, keeping the filling inside, and press lightly with the palm of your hand .
Now spread some more béchamel sauce on top , grate more cheese , and place the croque monsieur on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Bake in a preheated ventilated oven at 375°F for 12 minutes or until golden brown.
Once ready, remove your homemade croque monsieur from the oven , cut it in half diagonally as tradition dictates , and serve immediately .
It is recommended to consume the croque monsieur as soon as it is ready.
If you can't find Comté, you can substitute it with Gruyère.
If the béchamel sauce has lumps, blend it with a mixer to make it smoother. You can also replace the cooked ham with salmon or grilled zucchini.
The recipe saw the light of day in the early 20th century in a Parisian bistro, where the chef, short of baguettes for the traditional baguette jambon-beurre , invented an innovative dish using sandwich bread with a crunchy yield: thus the croque monsieur was born.

