name:
Cevapcici
ingredients:
Lamb: 7.1oz(200 g)- minced
Beef: 5.3oz(150 g)- ground
Pork: 5.3oz(150 g)- ground
White onions: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Sweet Paprika: ½tsp
Powdered cumin: ½tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 7 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 2 hours of rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
To make the cevapcici, first peel and finely chop the onion and garlic , then place the 3 types of minced meat in a large bowl .
Add the onion , garlic , and cumin .
Also add the paprika and mix with your hands to obtain a homogeneous mixture, then season with salt and pepper and mix again. Cover the bowl with cling film and leave in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours to allow the flavors to blend.
After this time, take the mixture and form cylindrical meatballs about 4 inches long and 0.75 inches wide, working it between the palms of your hands . Meanwhile, heat a grill. Once formed, cook the cevapcici on the grill for about 7 minutes, turning them often to ensure even cooking : they should be charred on the outside but still soft and juicy on the inside. Serve the cevapcici hot or warm, perhaps accompanied by raw onions and ajvar sauce as tradition suggests !
Cooked cevapcici can be stored for 2 days in the refrigerator. Alternatively, you can freeze the raw meatballs.
If you wish, you can further flavor the cevapcici by adding marjoram to the mixture. Some people use a pinch of baking soda to make the mixture softer.
As for the type of meat, you can omit the pork or replace it with lamb; the important thing is that the mince is very fine, so if possible, ask your butcher to grind it twice. It is not recommended to use only beef mince as the mixture would be too lean and dry.
Try cooking them on a barbecue during an outdoor grill, they will be even better!
The name cevapcici derives from the Persian term kebab and the Slavic diminutive -cici , referring to the typical Arab dish based on spiced meat.

