name:
Cups with lemon cream and meringues
ingredients:
Water: 0.8cup(200 g)
Lemon juice: 1
Lemon peel: 1
Egg yolks: 4
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Cornstarch: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.67cup(150 g)- (well chilled)
Powdered sugar: ½cup(50 g)
Egg whites: ½cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Powdered sugar: 1 ¾cup(220 g)
Lemon juice: to taste
Lemons: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + cooling times

instructions:
To make the cups with lemon cream and meringues, first, prepare the meringues: in the bowl of a stand mixer, start working the room-temperature egg whites with a pinch of salt , as soon as they start to turn white, add the sugar gradually and a few drops of lemon juice .
Continue working until the egg whites form stiff, glossy peaks . Put the meringue mixture into a piping bag and pipe dollops about 0.5 inches (1.5 cm) onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . If they're small, the meringues will cook faster . With the indicated quantities, you will get around 30 pieces. Bake the meringues in a preheated static oven at 212°F (100°C) for 1 hour. Once cooked, let them cool before removing them from the parchment paper.
Meanwhile, prepare the lemon cream: in a saucepan, pour the water , lemon juice , and lemon zest , and place over moderate heat.
Meanwhile, in a bowl, mix the egg yolks with the sugar and cornstarch . Temper the mixture with a small part of the hot juice, then pour all the egg mixture into the hot lemon water .
Stir and cook over moderate heat until the cream thickens completely . Pour the cream into a bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let it cool , first at room temperature and then in the fridge.
Pour the very cold cream and powdered sugar into a bowl and whip it with electric beaters . Gently fold the whipped cream into the now-cold lemon cream using gentle motions from bottom to top.
Once you have a homogeneous cream , assemble the cups: take glass cups about 4 inches (10 cm) in diameter, fill them with cream , and crumble some meringue on top .
Use a peeler to remove the lemon zest and cut it into strips . Garnish with the zest strips, a lemon slice, and a whole meringue. Serve the cups with lemon cream and meringues immediately .
Store the cups in the fridge for a couple of days. The cream can be stored in the fridge covered with plastic wrap for 2-3 days; alternatively, it can be frozen for about 1 month.
The meringues can be stored in an airtight or tin container for 10 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Lemon juice is used to make the meringues white and glossy. It is preferable not to omit it.
Accompany the cups with delicious Lingue di gatto (flat cookies) !

