name:
Vegan Baked Pasta with Cauliflower
ingredients:
Mezze Maniche Rigate pasta: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Cauliflower: 1.5lbs(700 g)- (to clean)
Vegetable broth: 8 ½cups(2 l)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Oat milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)- unsweetened
Type 0 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6tbsp(80 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Nutritional yeast: 2tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the vegan baked pasta with cauliflower, first prepare the vegetable broth using our recipe. Clean the cauliflower by removing the base and leaves , then chop it roughly . Cook the cauliflower in the vegetable broth for about 15 minutes or until it softens .
Meanwhile, start on the Bechamel Sauce Without Butter : pour the oat milk into a saucepan and bring it to a near boil. In another saucepan, combine the oil and the flour .
Season with salt, pepper , and nutmeg , then stir with a whisk over medium heat for about 3 minutes .
When bubbles form, add the hot plant-based milk and continue stirring over the heat until you achieve a thick and smooth consistency .
Meanwhile, the cauliflower will be ready, so drain it and chop it roughly .
Cook the pasta in the broth used for the cauliflower . Drain the pasta when al dente, then add the béchamel and the cauliflower .
Mix well to combine everything . Transfer the seasoned pasta to an oven-safe dish , then sprinkle the surface with nutritional yeast flakes and a drizzle of oil.
Bake at 392°F in grill mode for about 10 minutes . Once well-gratinated, remove from the oven and serve your vegan baked pasta with cauliflower immediately !
The vegan baked pasta with cauliflower can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
If you want to prepare the vegan béchamel in advance, cover it with plastic wrap and store it in the refrigerator for up to 2 days, making sure to whisk it to make it fluid again. Alternatively, you can freeze it for a month.
To prepare the vegan béchamel, you can use oat, soy, or rice milk. Alternatively, use seed oil instead of olive oil.
If you don't have nutritional yeast available, you can omit it or replace it with grated cheese (for a non-vegan version).

