name:
Risotto with Savoy cabbage, speck, and fontina
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Verza (savoy cabbage): 1.1lbs(500 g)
Fontina cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Speck: 4.2oz(120 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(25 g)
Chives: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Carrots: 1
Onions: 1
Potatoes: 1
Coarse salt: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the risotto with Savoy cabbage, speck, and fontina, start by cleaning the vegetables. Peel off the Savoy cabbage leaves to reach the tenderest ones . At this point, take 180 g (6.3 oz) of the tender leaves and cut them into thin strips .
Place the remaining 320 g (11.3 oz) of waste in a pot along with the carrot, potato, and onion, which you have previously peeled and cut into rough pieces. Cover with plenty of water and add the coarse salt, then let simmer for at least 30 minutes . Meanwhile, remove the crust from the cheese and cut it into small cubes .
Cut the speck into half-centimeter (1/4 inch) strips and proceed to cook. Transfer the speck to a saucepan and let it flavor over low heat for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally . When golden, set it aside .
In the same saucepan, pour the rice and toast it over high heat for 2-3 minutes . Once it becomes translucent, add the Savoy cabbage .
Cook the risotto by occasionally wetting it with a ladle of the broth you prepared; adjust the salt . At the end of cooking, and off the heat, add the fontina, the speck , and the chives cut with scissors .
Finally, add a pinch of pepper, the butter , and stir to mix well . All that's left is to plate the risotto with Savoy cabbage, speck, and fontina, and enjoy !
The risotto with Savoy cabbage, speck, and fontina should be consumed immediately, but if you prefer, you can keep it in the refrigerator for up to one day.
If you wish, you can garnish the risotto with some dried fruits, such as hazelnut granules, to add a crunchy note. For a spring version, replace the Savoy cabbage with green beans or fresh spinach!

