name:
Gnocchi with herb pesto
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Spelt flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Swiss chard: 10.6oz(300 g)- already cleaned
Fresh ginger: 0.5oz(15 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Cashews: ½cup(70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare gnocchi with herb pesto, boil the potatoes for 30 to 50 minutes depending on their size . As soon as they are cooked (always do the fork test to be sure), drain them, peel them, and mash the potatoes . While they are still quite hot, pour the spelt flour in the middle and start kneading with a pinch of salt .
As soon as the ingredients are compacted, transfer the dough to the work surface and form a smooth sphere . Form strips and from these make balls about 3/4 inch (2 cm) in diameter .
As you go along, arrange on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and sprinkled with spelt flour; when they are all ready, cover with a cloth . Meanwhile, clean the ginger and slice it, add it to a pan along with oil and the two crushed garlic cloves . As soon as the base is hot, drop in the cleaned and rinsed herbs .
Let them wilt for a few minutes, seasoning with salt and pepper , then remove the garlic and place the herbs in a mixer along with the cashews , the oil
and blend until you obtain a smooth puree . At this point, bring a pot of water to a boil with salt, then drop in the gnocchi , and when they float to the surface, drain them .
Pour the pesto into a pan and, with the heat off, first add a bit of the gnocchi cooking water and then the gnocchi themselves . Mix quickly and add some sliced chili pepper with seeds removed. Enjoy your meal, your gnocchi with herb pesto are ready .
It is not recommended to store gnocchi with herb pesto in any form.
If the herbs are not in season or not to your liking, just make a few small changes to the gnocchi with herb pesto recipe. Instead, use kale and toasted walnuts or wild fennel and almonds.

