name:
Chocolate and Ginger Squares
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Potato starch: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(130 g)- (at room temperature)
Butter: 8 ½tbsp(120 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Eggs: 5.3oz(150 g)- (about 3, at room temperature)
Baking powder: 1 ¾tsp(8 g)
Fresh ginger: 0.3oz(8 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(130 g)
Dark chocolate: 4.5oz(130 g)
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)
candied ginger: 1oz(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the chocolate and ginger squares, first prepare the base: chop the chocolate and place it in a saucepan with the butter and 2 tbsp of milk . Heat on low heat , stirring with a wooden spoon until melted.
Remove from heat and let cool for 5-6 minutes . In a bowl, pour the eggs and sugar and beat them using a hand whisk .
Add the cooled chocolate and butter mixture and mix well . Add the flour , cornstarch, and baking powder .
Peel the fresh ginger using a vegetable peeler or a small knife and grate it . Add it to the batter and mix .
Finally, add the remaining 7 tbsp of milk and mix very well, still using the hand whisk, until you get a smooth and homogeneous mixture . Take a 12x8 inch rectangular baking dish and brush it with a little oil , just to make the parchment paper stick.
Line the pan with the parchment paper, pour the batter inside , level it with a spatula , and bake in the preheated static oven at 340°F for 35 minutes. Do the toothpick test, remove from the oven, and let cool .
Meanwhile, prepare the chocolate ganache to glaze the cake. Chop the dark chocolate . Pour the cream into a saucepan and add the butter in pieces . Heat over moderate heat until almost boiling. Remove from heat and add the chopped chocolate .
Mix everything vigorously so that the chocolate melts completely . Let it cool for about 30 minutes at room temperature so that the glaze thickens. Take the cake, remove it from the pan by eliminating the parchment paper, and place it on a rack. Cut it first into three horizontal parts and then into another 5 parts vertically to obtain 15 squares of about 2 inches . Pour the ganache on top and spread it over the entire surface of the cake with a spatula .
Decorate each square with pieces of candied ginger . Put in the refrigerator for 30 minutes before serving the chocolate and ginger squares .
The chocolate and ginger squares can be stored in the refrigerator for 3 days, preferably inside an airtight container. You can freeze the base without glaze.
The chocolate and ginger squares can be stored in the refrigerator for 3 days, preferably inside an airtight container. You can freeze the base without glaze.

