name:
Apple Rose Cake
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 3 ½cups(450 g)
Sourdough starter: 0.3cup(80 g)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(180 g)
Sugar: 6 ½tbsp(80 g)
Butter: 4.3tbsp(60 g)- (soft)
Eggs: 2.1oz(60 g)- (about 1 medium)
Fine salt: 1.4tsp(8 g)
Apples: 0.75lb(350 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.833cup(100 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- (softened)
Cinnamon powder: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + rising time (at least 10 h in total)

instructions:
To make the apple rose cake, pour the flour into a stand mixer equipped with a hook , then add the sourdough and the milk slowly while starting to mix at low speed.
When the mixture is well combined, add the egg and gradually the sugar as well , slightly increasing the speed of the mixer. Once these ingredients are well absorbed, add the salt and continue to work the dough for about 10 minutes.
At this point, add the softened butter, one piece at a time, ensuring it is well incorporated into the dough before adding the next . Once all the butter is absorbed, the dough will be smooth, shiny, and elastic . Form a ball , cover the bowl with plastic wrap, and let it rise for about 7-8 hours in the oven turned off, away from drafts.
After the rising time, prepare the butter cream: place the softened butter with powdered sugar in a bowl and mix to obtain a smooth mixture . Take the dough, which in the meantime will have doubled in volume .
Flip the dough onto a floured work surface and dust it lightly with flour on top as well , then roll it out with a rolling pin into a rectangle measuring 19x17 inches. Spread the rectangle with the butter cream, keeping aside a tablespoon . Cut the rectangle lengthwise into 8 strips of the same width .
Now peel and slice the apples into wedges, then cut the wedges into very thin slices . Place 2 rows of apple slices on each strip of dough, ensuring one of the rows slightly protrudes from each strip . Finally, sprinkle the apples with ground cinnamon .
Gently roll up the strips to form roses . Line the base of a 28 cm diameter pan (preferably with a removable bottom) and place the roses inside with the side where the apples protrude facing upwards . Cover the pan with plastic wrap and let it rise in the oven turned off for about 2 hours or until doubled in volume .
At this point, brush the surface of the cake with the reserved butter cream and bake in a preheated ventilated oven at 356°F for about 35-40 minutes, in the middle rack. Once baked, let it cool and sprinkle with powdered sugar . Your apple rose cake is ready to be served !
The apple rose cake can be stored at room temperature for 3-4 days, covered with a glass dome. You can freeze it after baking and completely cooling it, perhaps divided into smaller portions.
If you don't have sourdough, you can proceed this way: prepare a pre-ferment with 50 g of flour, 25 g of water, and 1 g of fresh yeast, knead briefly and let it rise for 7-8 hours or until doubled in volume, then use it in place of the sourdough. If you don't have a stand mixer, you can knead by hand, ensuring to add the ingredients gradually.

