name:
Rabbit alla stimpirata
ingredients:
Rabbit: 2.6lbs(1.2 kg)
Celery: 2ribs
Carrots: 2
Garlic: 2cloves
Green olives: ½cup(100 g)
Capers in vinegar: 6tsp(30 g)
White wine vinegar: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Sugar: 1.6tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Mint: 5leaves
Type 00 flour: to taste
Water: 2.8cups(650 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare stimpirata rabbit, start by boiling the rabbit for 10 minutes in plenty of boiling water . After the time has elapsed, drain it and dry it with paper towels .
Meanwhile, as the rabbit cools, clean and slice both the celery and the carrots . At this point, heat the amount of water indicated in the ingredients in a pot, then pour some oil into a pan and let it heat well. Meanwhile, flour the rabbit pieces, shaking off the excess
and dip them in the pan . Let them brown over high heat for a few minutes, turning to brown evenly . Then set the pieces aside .
In the same cooking base, add celery and carrots , garlic cloves , and capers ,
the hand-crushed olives and mix everything, letting it cook for 10 minutes over low heat. Then add a ladle of the water you have heated and pour it over the vegetables . Now that the vegetables have softened, add the rabbit .
Moisten with the remaining hot water , salt, mix well , and cover with a lid, letting everything cook for 30 minutes over medium heat .
After half an hour, remove the lid and pour in the sugar , wine vinegar , and break up the mint .
Give it a good stir and let it cook for another 5-6 minutes or until the seasoning reaches your preferred consistency . Here is your stimpirata rabbit ready .
The stimpirata seasoning can be stored for 2-3 days in the refrigerator, well covered.
If you wish, you can freeze it if you have used fresh ingredients.
Depending on the areas and families, stimpirata rabbit knows many variations, in white as we present it, or with cherry tomatoes and peppers!

