name:
Sardinian ricotta ravioli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(300 g)
Semolina: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(290 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Lemon peel: ½
Mint: 8leaves
Sugar: 0.625tsp(3 g)
Peeled plum tomatoes: 3cups(700 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes for the dough to rest

instructions:
To prepare the Sardinian ricotta ravioli, first take care of the fresh pasta: in a large bowl, pour the all-purpose flour and semolina flour , add the water and oil gradually, mixing with your hands.
Adjust the salt and continue kneading until a homogeneous mixture is obtained, transfer the dough to a work surface and knead it further. If it becomes sticky, dust it with flour, then form a ball , wrap it with plastic wrap , and let it rest for 30 minutes at room temperature. Prepare the filling by pouring the well-drained ricotta into a bowl, coarsely chopped mint leaves ,
the lemon zest , salt , and sugar . Mix well and set aside until the ravioli are formed.
Prepare the tomato sauce by sautéing the garlic with its skin in a pan with a drizzle of oil . Add the peeled tomatoes with their juice , adjust the salt, and cook covered over low heat for at least 20 minutes.
After this time, remove the lid and continue cooking for the remaining 10 minutes over high heat. Turn off the heat and add fresh basil . Roll out the pasta to a thickness of about 1/16 inch with a rolling pin , then cut with the ravioli mold .
With the indicated quantities, by re-kneading the leftover pasta, you will get about 48 squares , place a teaspoon of filling in the center and place another square on top .
Press the edges to make them adhere and finish with the prongs of a fork . Place the ravioli on trays dusted with flour . Place a pot filled with salted water on the stove, and when it reaches a boil, cook the ravioli for about 2-3 minutes .
Once cooked, drain the Sardinian ricotta ravioli , divide them onto plates , and dress them with the tomato sauce .
We recommend consuming the Sardinian ravioli immediately. The best way to store the ravioli is to freeze them uncooked: leave them for half an hour on a tray placed in the freezer, the time necessary for them to harden a bit, then transfer them to freezer bags.
Those who love strong flavors can season the ravioli with aged pecorino cheese; on the other hand, those who prefer milder flavors can replace sheep ricotta with cow ricotta.

