name:
Gluten-free buns
ingredients:
Gluten free rice flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Gluten free corn flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Quinoa flour: ¾cup(100 g)
Water: 1 ½cup(350 g)- lukewarm
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Gluten free fresh brewer's yeast: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1.4tsp(8 g)
Gluten free rice malt: 1tsp(5 g)
Xantana: 0.24tsp(1 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Rosemary: 1tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 2 h and 30 min. of rising time

instructions:
To prepare gluten-free buns, crumble the fresh yeast into a bowl , add the rice malt and 50 g of warm water taken from the total amount, and mix with a spoon to dissolve everything .
Add the quinoa flour , corn flour , and rice flour , all gluten-free, and continue mixing while pouring in a little more water.
Add the xanthan gum , then pour in the remaining water and the oil .
Finally, add the salt and continue to mix until you get a homogeneous mixture, dense and creamy in consistency. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rise in the oven turned off or away from drafts for about 2 hours, until the volume doubles.
After the rising time, grease a bun mold with a drizzle of oil and pour the dough inside ; we used a mold with a diameter of 5.5 inches and a height of 0.8 inches. Level the surface with the back of a spoon and garnish with chopped rosemary .
Lastly, add another drizzle of oil , cover the mold with plastic wrap , and let it rise for another 30 minutes. After this time, bake in a preheated convection oven at 392°F for about 30 minutes. Remove from the oven and let your gluten-free buns cool slightly before enjoying them !
Gluten-free buns can be stored for 1-2 days in a food bag or frozen after they have been baked and completely cooled.
You can enrich gluten-free buns by adding other ingredients before baking, such as very thinly sliced zucchini or potatoes!

If you can't find xanthan gum, you can substitute it with agar-agar in the same quantities.

If you don't have the mold, you can try dividing the dough on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper; they may hold their shape less.

