name:
Pasta with artichoke ragù
ingredients:
Cavatelli pasta: 1.1lbs(500 g)- fresh
Artichokes: 6- about 900 g
Tomato purée: 3cups(700 g)
White onions: 2.5oz(70 g)
Carrots: 0.3cup(35 g)
Celery: 1.2oz(35 g)
Red wine: ¼glass(60 g)
Vegetable broth: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Marjoram: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare pasta with artichoke ragù, let's start with the seasoning. Remove the outermost leaves of the artichokes , if they have thorns, use a cloth to avoid pricking yourself, and with a small knife peel from the stem to the base . Cut the tips cleanly and divide the artichoke in half .
Remove the central choke and finally slice thinly . As you go, immerse the artichoke strips in a bowl of cold water in which you have squeezed and immersed a lemon. This will prevent them from turning brown .
After cleaning the celery, carrot, and onion, cut them into chunks and place them in a mixer . Use the pulse mode to get small pieces. Proceed to cook. Gently heat some oil in a pan, a crushed clove of garlic in its skin, and sprigs of marjoram . As soon as the base is hot, remove the garlic and marjoram
and add the chopped vegetables . Let them stew for 5 minutes before adding the artichokes: drain only 2/3 of them and toss them into the pan .
Cook gently for another 4-5 minutes , then transfer everything to the mixer and blend until you get small pieces: they should resemble cooked ground meat .
Return to the pan, adding a drop of oil if necessary , raise the temperature a bit, and then deglaze with red wine . When the alcohol evaporates, add the tomato sauce .
Moisten with vegetable broth , adjust the salt and pepper, and let it cook gently for 30 minutes, covering with the lid. At this point, everything should be ready, throw the cavatelli into boiling salted water and drain the pasta when it is al dente .
Drain the remaining artichokes and briefly sauté them in a pan with a drop of oil, a clove of garlic, and adjust the salt , remove it at the end of cooking , and remember they should be well-roasted .
Pour the cavatelli into the sauce and toss briefly . Proceed with plating: serve the pasta and garnish with the roasted artichokes . Enjoy your pasta with artichoke ragù .
Pasta with artichoke ragù can be stored for a maximum of one day, while the ragù can be stored for up to 3 days or even frozen, always without the pasta.
Pasta with artichoke ragù will literally change taste if, instead of cavatelli, you use tagliatelle: try it to believe it! If you don't have vegetable broth available, don't worry, simple water will do just fine.

