name:
Spelt Bread
ingredients:
Water: ½cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Whole grain farro flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Whole grain farro flour: 2.5oz(70 g)
Sourdough starter: 1.8oz(50 g)- (solid, refreshed for at least 3-5 hours)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.1oz(3 g)
Manitoba flour: 1cup(130 g)
Water: ½cup(130 g)- at room temperature
Fine salt: 1 ¾tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 1 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus the rising times (about 24 hours)

instructions:
To prepare spelt bread, start with autolysis: in a bowl, pour the spelt flour and water , mix with a wooden spoon , until you obtain a homogeneous mixture. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest for an hour . This process allows the flour to better absorb the water and develop a better gluten network.
Let's move on to the dough: in a bowl, place the sourdough and fresh yeast . Add part of the water and soften everything with your hands , there is no need to dissolve them completely. In another large bowl, pour the mixture obtained from autolysis , the spelt flour , and Manitoba flour.
Add the dissolved yeasts in water and the remaining water. Knead in the bowl with your hands for about 5 minutes until you obtain a homogeneous and elastic dough .
Cover with a dry and clean kitchen towel and let it rest for 10 minutes. After this time, add the salt and work for another 5 minutes to let it absorb completely .
You should reach a point where you no longer feel the salt grains when handling the dough . Cover again with the towel and let it rest for another 15 minutes . Now you can start with the "four folds" to give strength to your dough and make it smooth: lift one edge of the dough and bring it towards the center.
Repeat this movement 4 times to grab the edges of the dough, rotating the bowl . Cover with a towel and let it rest for another 15 minutes. Repeat this operation 3 times at 15-minute intervals, always making 4 folds in the dough. After making the folds, cover with plastic wrap .
Let it rise for an hour and a half at room temperature. Then transfer the dough to the refrigerator and let it rise for a minimum of 12 hours and a maximum of 18 hours. Retrieve the dough and leave it at room temperature for a couple of hours before working with it. Now transfer it to a lightly floured work surface . Gently spread the dough with your hands to form a rectangle measuring 14x9 inches .
Then fold the top side towards the center and then bring the bottom one over it to make them meet . At this point, bring the dough towards the center by folding it laterally first from one side and then from the other.
Bring the corners of the obtained rectangle towards the center to get a sort of bundle ; flip it and round the dough until you get a spherical shape . Transfer inside a bowl, measuring 8x3.5 inches where you have already placed a well-floured cloth inside .
Cover with the edges of the cloth and let it rise at room temperature for 6 hours. At this point transfer the dough by flipping the bowl onto a lightly floured baking tray .
Using a razor blade or a very sharp knife, make a diagonal cut . Bake in a static oven at 482°F for 25 minutes, then lower the temperature to 428°F and bake for another 15 minutes. Then remove from oven and let cool before cutting and serving it .
Spelt bread keeps for 3-4 days in a paper bag.
Alternatively, you can freeze it; once cooled, you can slice it!
You can add various seeds to the dough.


