name:
Cream puffs with ricotta and pistachio cream
ingredients:
Eggs: 3.7oz(105 g)- (about 2 medium)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(65 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Sugar: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.9cup(120 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Ground pistachio: 0.7cup(80 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
White chocolate: 1.8oz(50 g)
Ground pistachio: ½cup(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 25 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the cream puffs with ricotta and pistachio cream, first make the choux pastry. In a saucepan, add the cubed butter and water . Add sugar and salt as well. Bring to heat, stirring with a whisk. Once the mixture comes to a boil
pour in the sifted flour and stir quickly with a wooden spoon. When the mixture separates completely from the pot, forming a white film on the bottom , remove from heat and transfer to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment . Alternatively, you can also do this in a bowl using a wooden spoon. Turn on the machine for a couple of minutes to cool the mixture slightly.
Once no more steam is released, you can add the eggs one at a time , ensuring the next one is added only when the previous one is fully absorbed. You should obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture . Now transfer the choux pastry to a piping bag fitted with a 10 mm plain nozzle; pipe 1-inch mounds of dough onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . With these amounts, you will get about 25 cream puffs.
With a slightly damp finger or spoon, flatten the tips of the cream puffs . Bake the cream puffs in a preheated static oven for 15 minutes at 428°F, avoiding opening the oven during cooking. After the first 15 minutes, lower the temperature to 374°F and bake the choux pastry for another 10 minutes. At this point, turn off the oven and leave the cream puffs inside for another 10-15 minutes with the door slightly open (place a wooden spoon between the door and the oven); this will help dry the inside well, then remove them from the oven .
In a bowl, combine the ricotta, powdered sugar , and vanilla bean seeds . Stir with a spoon and also add the cream gradually .
Continue to mix, then add the chopped pistachios and stir until you have a homogeneous cream . Transfer to a piping bag with a 10 mm nozzle and use it to fill the cream puffs .
Melt the white chocolate in a double boiler or microwave. Brush the tops of the cream puffs with the white chocolate and dip them in chopped pistachios . Place the cream puffs on a tray and keep them refrigerated until ready to serve .
Store the cream-filled cream puffs in the refrigerator and consume within 3 days. Baked cream puffs can be stored in a tin box, preferably perforated, for 1 week, or freeze them.
You can flavor the cream with orange or lemon zest.

