name:
Tortelloni with Swiss chard and Parmesan cream
ingredients:
Tortelloni pasta: 14.1oz(400 g)
Chard: 6 ½cups(230 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Dried chili pepper: 2
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the tortelloni with Swiss chard and Parmesan cream, let's start with the vegetables. After removing the stem , cut the short side of the stalks into strips and the green part lengthwise .
In a pan, heat a drop of oil and add the peeled garlic and chili pepper for flavor . As soon as the base is hot, toss in the cut Swiss chard and let it sauté for a few moments over low heat, stirring occasionally, then remove the garlic from the pan .
After about 10 minutes, the Swiss chard will be ready . Now move on to the Parmesan cream: pour the cream into a saucepan, turn the heat to medium, and sprinkle in the grated Parmesan . Stir occasionally with a whisk .
You should obtain a smooth and lump-free sauce . Once this is ready, cook the tortelloni in boiling salted water following the times on the package . Be sure to drain them as soon as they are al dente directly into the sauce .
Quickly toss to blend the flavors and proceed to plating. On the bottom of the plate, pour a little cheese cream , then the seasoned tortelloni .
Add a little more cream and a sprinkle of pepper . Here are your tortelloni with Swiss chard and Parmesan cream ready .
If you prefer, you can store the tortelloni with Swiss chard and Parmesan cream for no more than one day in the refrigerator; it would be preferable to store the cream separately.
We chose tortelloni filled with spinach and ricotta, but you can use whatever you have available: meat, vegetarian, or mushroom... they will always be excellent! If you wish, you can further enrich the dressing with sun-dried tomatoes or some coarsely chopped and toasted hazelnuts in a pan.

