name:
Brioche bread
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2.4cups(300 g)- cold
Butter: 1cup(110 g)- soft but still pliable
Whole milk: ¼cup(70 g)- cold
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)- cold
Honey: 3tsp(20 g)
Eggs: 2- cold
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.3oz(9 g)- cold
Fine salt: ½tsp(3 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Egg yolks: 2
Whole milk: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + rising time (at least 12-13 h total)

instructions:
To prepare the brioche bread, first place all the ingredients in the freezer for 15 minutes, except for the butter, then start with the dough. Pour the bread flour and the sugar into the bowl of a stand mixer with a hook attachment , then crumble the yeast with your hands . In a separate bowl, place the eggs, honey , and vanilla extract.
Beat the eggs and pour the mixture into the mixer , turn it on at low speed and add the milk gradually . Knead until the dough is smooth and elastic, which will take about 5-10 minutes. Occasionally detach the dough from the hook and flip it, so it will become elastic more easily.
Add the salt . Once it is well absorbed, add the butter one piece at a time, waiting for the first to be well incorporated before adding the next . Do not rush; this is a delicate and crucial step. Once you have obtained a homogeneous dough, which will require about 15 minutes of work, transfer the dough to a lightly buttered surface. Give it a few slap & fold reinforcements, then form a ball .
Transfer it to a lightly buttered bowl and cover with plastic wrap. Let it rise for 2 hours at room temperature to double in volume , then place the dough in the refrigerator overnight (8-10 hours). After this time, flip the dough onto a surface, form a cylinder, and cut it into portions of 3.5 oz each .
You should get 6 pieces . Work one piece at a time on the surface, adding very little flour, otherwise, it will not create friction. First, you need to stretch them out to obtain a rectangle and then roll them on themselves; turn the small cylinder 90° and repeat the same operation . Do the same for all 6 pieces, trying to achieve a slightly oval, elongated shape .
Butter and flour two large molds of 6.5x3.5 inches, 3 inches high and place inside each one 3 portions of brioche bread, placing them side by side and spacing them about 0.4 inches apart . Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for 2-3 hours until they have tripled in volume .
When there is about half an hour left until the end of the rising, beat together egg yolks and milk and use them to brush the brioche bread . After 30 minutes, the egg will be completely dry; you can do a second brushing .
Bake in a preheated convection oven at 340°F for 15-18 minutes. When they are golden brown, remove them from the oven and let them cool on a wire rack . Your brioche bread is ready to serve !
Brioche bread tends to dry out very quickly, so always keep it stored under a glass dome or in a food bag, and consume it within 1-2 days. You can freeze the brioche bread once it is fully cooked and cooled, perhaps in slices so you can defrost it as needed.
The refrigerator step is a maturation step, which allows the flavors to intensify and the dough to firm up, making handling easier. You can flavor the brioche bread with aromas like lemon zest or orange. You can also enrich it by adding chocolate chips.
You can personalize the shapes to give to the dough, for example, by forming a braid or small rolls to bake on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. If you prefer, you can also use just one mold, obviously larger, but the cooking times may change. To prepare brioche bread, it is very important that all the ingredients are cold since the stand mixer tends to heat the dough.
Also try the Chocolate Babka , similar to a braided brioche bread: both in the chocolate version and the Lemon and Blueberry Babka !
The word brioche refers to a very soft leavened dough that lends itself well to both sweet and savory preparations, thanks to its very neutral flavor due to the low sugar content, which allows for a lightly colored dough. Unlike puff pastry, which needs to be worked in a cool environment, brioche bread needs a warm environment to rise naturally and gently. The origin of the name seems quite controversial. Alexandre Dumas attributed the name to the famous brie cheese because originally it seemed that the dough was made precisely with brie. Meanwhile, the most credited source seems to approve of even two terms such as brier in the sense of kneading or broyer in the sense of working, obviously the dough.

