name:
New Orleans beignets
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 5 ¼cups(650 g)
Water: ¾cup(180 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(130 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(65 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Eggs: 2oz(60 g)- (about 1)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(14 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Vegetable oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 60 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the rising time (at least a couple of hours)

instructions:
To prepare the New Orleans beignets, first pour the butter and water into a saucepan and melt over low heat, then turn off the heat and add the yeast and milk .
Add the sugar and stir with a whisk to dissolve everything: it's important that the mixture does not exceed a temperature of 104°F. At this point, put the flour in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Start the mixer and slowly pour in the butter mixture , then also add the egg .
Finally, add the salt . After combining all the ingredients, replace the paddle with the dough hook and continue kneading until the dough clings to the hook .
Transfer the dough to a work surface; if it is too soft to work with, let it rest for 5 minutes covered with a cloth. Briefly knead the dough to form a ball , which you will place inside a large bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for at least 2 hours at a temperature of 78°F-82°F (you can use the oven turned off with the light on) until doubled in volume.
After the rising time , roll out the dough with a rolling pin, adding a little flour if needed until it is about 1/4 inch thick . Cover the sheet with a cloth and let it rest for about 10 minutes.
Now use a smooth-edged pastry cutter to cut the sheet into squares about 2 1/3 inches per side : with these doses, you should get about 60 . Heat the seed oil in a saucepan to a temperature of 338°F-356°F and add a few pieces at a time .
Fry the beignets for a total of 2 minutes, turning them often and pouring oil over them with a spoon to make them puff up and become golden brown . Drain the beignets on paper towels and generously dust with powdered sugar . Serve your New Orleans beignets immediately !
It is recommended to consume New Orleans beignets while still warm. They will lose their crispness if stored.
If desired, you can flavor the dough with vanilla or with lemon or orange zest.
The traditional recipe calls for frying in cottonseed oil, but you can use any other type of neutral-flavored seed oil.

