name:
Tartlets with Dark Chocolate Namelaka
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2.1cups(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Butter: 4.5oz(125 g)- (cold from the fridge)
Eggs: 2oz(58 g)- (about 1 medium)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Dark chocolate 55%: 5oz(140 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.875cup(210 g)
Whole milk: 0.375cup(90 g)
Glucose: 2tsp(10 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.1oz(2 g)
Vanilla bean: 1- seedless (optional)
Raspberry jam: ¾cup(200 g)
Hazelnuts: to taste
Red currants: 48- (FROM WEIGHT)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 12 h of namelaka crystallization and 1 h of pastry resting time

instructions:
To prepare the tartlets with dark chocolate namelaka, first make the cream, considering that it will need to chill in the refrigerator for 12 hours. To prepare the dark chocolate namelaka, chop the dark chocolate and transfer it to a tall and narrow container. Soak the gelatin in cold water . In a saucepan, pour the milk and add the glucose .
Remove the seeds from the vanilla pod and set them aside (they will be used for the shortcrust). Add the pod to the milk and bring it to a boil. At this point, remove the vanilla pod and pour half of the milk into the chocolate . Blend with an immersion blender for a few seconds . Now drain the gelatin and add it to the remaining warm milk , stirring carefully to dissolve it.
Add the milk and gelatin mixture to the chocolate and blend again with the immersion blender for a few seconds. At this point, add the fresh liquid cream and blend again until you obtain a smooth and fluid cream.
Then pour it into a bowl , cover with plastic wrap and let it crystallize in the refrigerator for 12 hours. In the meantime, also prepare the shortcrust. In the bowl of a mixer, pour the all-purpose flour, the vanilla seeds set aside earlier, and the salt . Add the cold butter in cubes and the powdered sugar
and finally the egg . Turn on the mixer for a few minutes until you obtain a homogeneous mixture . Transfer it onto a work surface, knead it just enough to compact the dough. Wrap in plastic wrap and transfer to the refrigerator for at least 1 hour. If you prefer, you can leave the dough in the refrigerator for up to 12 hours.
After the resting time, roll out the dough on a lightly floured surface to a thickness of about 1/4 inch . Use a round cutter with a diameter of about 3 1/2 inches to cut out discs and place each disc inside a tartlet mold lined with parchment paper with a diameter of about 2 3/4 inches .
Make all the tartlets and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. You will get 12. Prick the base with a fork . Place a square of parchment paper inside each tartlet and add ceramic baking beans on top. Bake the tartlets in a static oven at 355°F for 25 minutes. At this point, take them out and let them cool.
Remove the baking beans and the molds. Transfer to a wire rack and fill with raspberry jam . Retrieve the namelaka and beat it with an electric whisk until it is well whipped , then transfer it to a piping bag with a plain nozzle.
Decorate the tartlets with namelaka , coarsely chopped hazelnuts , and red currants .
Dust with unsweetened cocoa powder and decorate with mint leaves .
The tartlets with namelaka can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can flavor the shortcrust with lemon zest. Instead of red currants, you can use raspberries or strawberries. If you prefer, you can make a tart with a diameter of about 8 3/4 inches.

