name:
Gluten-free Zeppole
ingredients:
Gluten free rice flour: ⅓cup(50 g)
Lupine flour: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Gluten free cornstarch: 4 ½tbsp(35 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2 medium) at room temperature
Egg yolks: 1
Water: 0.625cup(150 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: ⅓cup(65 g)
Egg yolks: 4 ¼tbsp(60 g)- (about 3)
Gluten free cornstarch: 2.1tbsp(30 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Black cherried in syrup: to taste
Gluten free powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time for the custard (about 2 h)

instructions:
To prepare the gluten-free zeppole, first make the custard. In a saucepan, pour the milk, the seeds of the vanilla pod, and the pod itself . Bring to a boil. Meanwhile, in another bowl, pour the egg yolks and sugar . Quickly whisk, then add the cornstarch and whisk again until you obtain a smooth and lump-free mixture.
Once the milk has reached a boil, pour part of it into the egg yolk mixture and stir to temper it. Then pour everything back into the saucepan and return to the heat. Stir with a whisk for a few minutes .
When you have obtained a smooth and lump-free cream , transfer it into a shallow and wide container and cover with plastic wrap touching the surface . Place in the refrigerator to cool for 2 hours. Meanwhile, prepare the choux pastry. Pour the water into a saucepan ,
the butter , and a pinch of salt . When the mixture reaches a boil, remove from the heat and add the rice flour .
Also add the cornstarch and the lupin flour . Mix well with a wooden spoon until all the ingredients are combined.
Return to the heat and, while stirring, cook the mixture for about 1 minute . Transfer it to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment and start the machine. Add one egg and wait for it to be fully absorbed before adding the second. When this is also well absorbed, add the egg yolk .
Continue working until you obtain an elastic and soft dough, then transfer it to a piping bag with a 1/2 inch star tip . Form the zeppole on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, creating circles with a diameter of 3 inches ; with these quantities, you should get 8. Bake in a preheated ventilated oven at 390°F for about 25-30 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool .
When the cream is well chilled, whisk it for a few moments and transfer it to a piping bag with a 3/8 inch plain tip. Fill the now cold zeppole by piping the cream into the center , decorate with syruped cherries and powdered sugar . Serve your gluten-free zeppole, or store them in the refrigerator until then .
Filled zeppole can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can fill your zeppole with Chocolate custard cream , which you can make using cornstarch.

