name:
Light chicken salad
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.1lbs(480 g)
Lettuce: 4 ½cups(240 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
Cucumbers: 0.9lb(200 g)
Carrots: 4.2oz(120 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Lemon peel: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Natural plain yogurt: ½cup(120 g)
Lemon juice: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the light chicken salad, divide the breast in two , then cut two slices from each . Arrange the fillets on a baking tray, season with salt and pepper .
Brush the breasts with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil , scent with a few sprigs of fresh marjoram and the grated zest of one lemon .
Cover the baking dish with plastic wrap and let it marinate in the refrigerator while preparing the vegetables. Meanwhile, thoroughly wash the lettuce under running water and let it drain well, then roughly chop it with a knife .
Peel the carrots and, using the same peeler, obtain long thin strips . Do the same with the cucumber , then cut the cherry tomatoes in half and set them aside.
Prepare the yogurt sauce: in a bowl, pour the plain yogurt and add the lemon juice , a drizzle of oil, a pinch of salt , and a sprinkle of pepper .
Mix vigorously with a whisk until you get a smooth and creamy sauce . Now take the chicken: heat the grill well and place the marinated fillets on it . Cook them over high heat for about five minutes per side, turning them with tongs .
When they are well golden with typical grill marks , slightly lower the heat and continue cooking for another ten minutes, turning them occasionally. Once cooked, let them cool slightly and cut them into regular strips . At this point, you can assemble your salad: place the lettuce at the bottom of a large bowl .
Add the cherry tomatoes and carrots , then also add the cucumber. Finally, complete with the grilled chicken cut into strips . Your light chicken salad is ready to be served , season it with the yogurt sauce as desired.
The light chicken salad and yogurt sauce can be stored separately in the fridge for one day.

To make your light chicken salad even fresher, you can add some mint leaves or substitute the yogurt with Greek yogurt, for a creamier sauce.

