name:
Sweet buns with coconut milk
ingredients:
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.2oz(6 g)
Coconut milk: 0.7cup(180 g)- at room temperature
Type 0 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Sugar: 12tsp(50 g)
Shredded coconut: 0.3cup(25 g)
Eggs: 2oz(60 g)- (1 medium)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Brown sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 3 hours and 45 minutes of rising

instructions:
To make the sweet coconut milk buns, melt the butter over very low heat and let it cool slightly. Then crumble the yeast into a large bowl, add the coconut milk at room temperature , stirring with a fork . Add the sugar .
and the shredded coconut , continue mixing with the fork to combine. Add the all-purpose flour , the whole egg, and finally the melted butter at room temperature .
Mix first with the fork and then with your hands until you have a soft and smooth dough. Transfer the dough onto a lightly floured work surface and round it in your hands .
Transfer the dough to a floured bowl, cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let the dough rise in a warm place for about 3 hours. Take the risen dough and transfer it to the work surface. Divide it into 10 portions of about 2.6 oz each .
Take a piece of dough and roll it on the lightly floured work surface to form a rope about 14 inches long and 0.6 inches in diameter . Gently wrap starting from the center to form a spiral or snail shape , tucking the end underneath the spiral .
As you form the buns, place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, slightly spaced apart. Once all are prepared, let them rise away from drafts for about 45 minutes. Preheat the oven to 392°F. Brush the risen buns with melted butter and sprinkle with brown sugar . Bake the sweet coconut milk buns in the preheated oven, fan mode, for 14-15 minutes. Once baked, remove them and let them cool slightly before enjoying!
The buns remain soft in a container for 48 hours. Simply reheat them for 3 minutes in a hot oven to make them soft and fresh as just baked. If you prefer to freeze them, reduce the cooking time to 12 minutes, freeze them once cooled in food bags. When ready to eat, let them thaw and then finish baking in the hot oven for 5 minutes.
You can replace the butter in the dough with 1.4 oz of olive or vegetable oil. For a more pronounced coconut flavor, you can replace 1 oz of all-purpose flour with 0.9 oz of shredded coconut.

