name:
Stringy meat cannoli
ingredients:
Beef: 1.5lbs(650 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 3.5oz(100 g)
Edam cheese: 5.6oz(160 g)
Thyme: 5sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Eggs: 2
Breadcrumbs: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the stringy meat cannoli, start by pouring the ground beef into a bowl. Remove the thyme leaves , season with salt, pepper, and add a drizzle of oil . Mix briefly .
Take about 3 oz of the mixture and place it on a surface lined with parchment paper. Press with your fingertips to form a square about 3.5-4 inches on each side . Cut the slices of cooked ham in half .
Then cut the cheese into strips 0.8 inches wide and place it in the center of each square along with the ham , roll it up well as if it were a cannoli without sealing the two ends. Form a total of 8 cannoli .
First dip them in the beaten eggs and then in the breadcrumbs , placing them on a dish as you go .
Heat the pan with a little oil and then sear the meat cannoli on all sides for a few moments . Turn them with a pair of spoons , being careful not to smash them .
Then place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake them in a preheated oven at 340°F for about 10 minutes . Once ready, arrange them on a plate, optionally serving with lamb's lettuce, and enjoy your stringy meat cannoli while they're still very hot .
It is advisable to consume the stringy meat cannoli immediately to prevent them from darkening and becoming less soft, but if necessary, you can keep them in the refrigerator for a couple of days. You can freeze them raw if you have used fresh ingredients, letting them thaw before cooking.
Instead of lamb's lettuce, you can serve your meat cannoli with sautéed seasonal vegetables or roasted potatoes, which always go well with them. Feel free to vary the ham and cheese filling to your liking; you can use, for example, smoked provolone, crumbled sausage and broccoli rabe, speck and brie, grilled zucchini and caciocavallo cheese, and even nduja and silano cheese! In short, let your imagination and taste run wild.

