name:
Arancini with bean ragù
ingredients:
Vialone nano rice: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Saffron: 1bag
Butter: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)
Precooked red beans: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Celery: 0.5oz(15 g)
Carrots: 0.5oz(15 g)
Red onions: 0.75oz(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
Tomato purée: 0.4cup(100 g)
Smoked scamorza cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Type 00 flour: 3.5oz(100 g)
Water: ¾cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the arancini with red bean ragù, start by cooking the rice. Toast it for a moment in a saucepan, then cover it with water and cook it, ensuring that the mixture is very dry by the end . Halfway through the cooking, remember to add the saffron diluted in a little water and season with salt .
When the rice is ready, with the heat off, add the grated cheese and a few pieces of butter . Stir until fully absorbed and transfer everything to a greased container .
Flatten the rice, cover it, and let it cool for a couple of hours at room temperature . Meanwhile, prepare the red bean ragù. Quickly chop the celery, carrot , red onion, and garlic clove in the mixer .
Once you have a very fine chop , sauté it in a saucepan with a splash of oil . After a few minutes, add the pre-cooked beans, rinsed and drained .
Finally, pour in the tomato purée, diluting it with a splash of water , so you can cook it over low heat for about twenty minutes; season with salt and pepper . Also prepare the batter by pouring the flour and water into a bowl .
Work well with a whisk to get a smooth and lump-free mixture. Season with a pinch of salt and move on to forming the arancini. With greased hands, take a portion of the mixture, 12 in total , and form a small well in your hand .
In the middle, pour a bit of bean ragù and a cube of smoked cheese . Close it well
and shape the tip, the first one is ready . Continue the same with all the others and then immerse them one at a time in the batter . Then drain and coat with breadcrumbs .
When you have all the arancini ready , move to the stove. Heat the oil to 340°F and when it's at temperature, add the arancini, letting them cook for a few minutes . Once golden, drain the arancini with red bean ragù and enjoy .
You can store the fried arancini with red bean ragù in the refrigerator for no more than a couple of days. Alternatively, you can prepare the rice the day before: cover it with plastic wrap and let it rest overnight in the refrigerator. If you used only fresh, non-defrosted ingredients, you can also freeze them raw and fry as needed directly from frozen.
The choice of melting cheese will make a difference inside your arancini with red bean ragù, so choose the one you like best if you're not a fan of smoked cheese.

