name:
Baked Chiacchiere
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Sugar: 5 ½tbsp(70 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- (softened at room temperature)
Eggs: 6.2oz(175 g)- (about 3 medium)
Egg yolks: 1.1tbsp(15 g)- (approximately 1)
Grappa: 1oz(30 g)
Baking powder: 1 ¼tsp(6 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + about 30 minutes of dough resting

instructions:
To prepare the baked chiacchiere, start by placing the sifted flour together with the yeast in a stand mixer equipped with a paddle attachment. Then add the sugar , a pinch of salt, the whole eggs, and the slightly beaten yolk . Also add the grappa and work the dough at medium speed until the ingredients are well combined.
Replace the paddle attachment with the dough hook and continue by adding the vanilla bean seeds and the butter softened at room temperature . Continue kneading for about 10 minutes, until you get a firm yet malleable consistency. Transfer the obtained dough onto the work surface and shape it into a spherical form .
Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature for 30 minutes. Then take a portion of dough, keeping the rest covered; you should flatten it with the palm of your hand , slightly flour it, and then pass it through the pasta machine initially at the widest thickness .
Fold the short sides towards the center and pass it through the pasta machine at a progressively thinner setting until you obtain a very thin sheet . Let the dough strips rest for a few minutes, then you can trim them with a fluted pastry wheel and cut rectangles of about 4x2.5 inches .
Make diagonal cuts in the center of each rectangle . Now you're ready to blanch the chiacchiere in a pot with boiling water for a few seconds , until they float to the surface; do not boil more than 1-2 chiacchiere at a time. Then drain them
and transfer them onto a baking tray lined with parchment paper . Continue in this way until you fill the first baking tray . Bake in a preheated fan-assisted oven at 392°F for about 5 minutes on one side and 5 minutes on the other. Once ready, remove from the oven and let them cool slightly .
Transfer the chiacchiere onto a serving plate and dust with powdered sugar . Your baked chiacchiere are ready to be enjoyed !
You can store the baked chiacchiere in a paper bag or a tin container for 5-6 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can replace the grappa with white wine. You can also make the baked chiacchiere slightly larger or irregular.

