name:
Gnocchi with clams and turnip tops
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Type 0 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: 1pinch
Clams: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Broccoli rabe: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the gnocchi with clams and turnip greens, first, place the clams to purge in a bowl with water and salt . Meanwhile, boil the potatoes for about 30-40 minutes, until they are soft. The time may vary depending on the size of the potatoes. Clean the turnip greens by removing the larger leaves .
Rinse the florets under running water and then set aside to drain. Now proceed with the preparation of the gnocchi: pour the flour into a fountain on a work surface , retrieve the boiled potatoes and mash them with a potato masher while still hot, without peeling them .
Salt, pepper , add the egg , and knead quickly with your hands to combine all the ingredients.
Form a dough ball , cut a piece of dough with a dough scraper or knife , and form a log about 1.5 cm (about 5/8 inch) thick .
Cut the logs into pieces and, dragging them with slight pressure on a gnocchi board, shape the gnocchi . If you don't have a gnocchi board, you can use the tines of a fork. As you shape the gnocchi, place them on a tray covered with a floured cloth .
Chop a chili pepper , then in a pan, heat the oil with the garlic and chili pepper . Add the turnip greens and let them wilt over moderate heat.
Meanwhile, in another pan, heat the oil with the garlic , add the purged and rinsed clams , cover with the lid and cook for 5-6 minutes or until they open .
Place a large pot filled with salted water on the stove and bring it to a boil; this will be for cooking the gnocchi. Shell only 3/4 of the clams and collect them in a bowl . Strain the clams' cooking water by pouring it directly over the vegetables to flavor them.
Cook the gnocchi for a few minutes , just long enough for them to rise to the surface. Once cooked, drain them into the pan with the seasoning , also add the shelled clams .
And those with the shell , mix to flavor, then chop the parsley and serve the gnocchi with clams and turnip greens garnished with fresh parsley .
The gnocchi with clams and turnip greens should be consumed immediately. However, you can store the uncooked gnocchi by placing them on a tray and putting them in the freezer for 30 minutes, then place the hardened gnocchi in a food bag; this way, they won't stick together. To cook them, just drop them into boiling salted water without thawing.
When cleaning the clams, discard those that are open or have broken shells as they may not be fresh.

