name:
Filled castagnole
ingredients:
Eggs: 4.25oz(120 g)- (about 2)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)- softened
Lemon peel: ½
Anise liqueur: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Sugar: 5 ½tbsp(70 g)
Cornstarch: 1 ½tsp(22 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the filled castagnole, start with the custard cream, which will need to cool down. In a saucepan, heat the milk and cream with the vanilla pod, which has been split open and scraped . You can use the seeds in the milk or add them to the egg yolks and sugar to be worked in another saucepan with a hand whisk . Add the cornstarch to this mixture and mix again to combine .
Once the milk and cream are hot, remove the pod, pour over the yolk mixture , and mix well. Then transfer everything back onto low heat to thicken the cream, stirring to prevent it from sticking to the bottom. When the cream is thick, remove it from the heat and stir vigorously for a moment , then transfer the cream to a low and wide bowl, covering with plastic wrap in contact with the surface . Let it cool first at room temperature and then in the fridge.
Work on the castagnole dough: in a bowl, pour the sifted flour and baking powder, add the sugar with the seeds of a vanilla pod . Pour in the eggs and softened butter . Grate the zest of half a lemon .
Pour in the anise liqueur and a pinch of salt. Mix everything first with a fork and then by hand . Transfer the dough to a lightly floured work surface and handle it with the help of a scraper .
Form a ball and then a log , from which to cut pieces of about 0.7 oz . Shape each into a round form , then fry a few balls at a time in hot peanut oil at 285°F (measured with a kitchen thermometer) , until golden.
Drain them on paper towels to absorb excess oil. While still hot, roll them in granulated sugar . Now you can fill them with the custard cream placed in a piping bag with a very narrow nozzle . Serve your filled castagnole !
It is recommended to consume the filled castagnole immediately or store them for a maximum of one day in the fridge, in an airtight container. If needed, warm them slightly.
You can store the custard cream in the fridge for about 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can also flavor the dough with orange or lemon zest. You can also fill with chocolate custard cream or chantilly cream.

