name:
Roast with mushrooms
ingredients:
Turkey breast: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 5 ½cups(400 g)- (to clean)
Onions: 1.4oz(40 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: to taste
Sage: to taste
Water: 0.67cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the roast with mushrooms, first tie the turkey breast with kitchen twine: tie the piece of meat lengthwise and make a double knot at one end , then slide the thread underneath and create a loop. Continue this way until you reach the other end and secure the twine with another double knot. For all the details, read our guide " How to tie a roast ".
Once fully tied, salt the roast on both sides . Heat the oil in a saucepan, then place the roast and brown it over medium heat for about ten minutes .
Turn the roast on all sides to ensure it is well browned . At this point, pour 1/4 cup of water , lower the heat, and cover with a lid . Cook over low heat for about 25-30 minutes.
Meanwhile, clean the mushrooms: remove the earthy part of the stem , then gently wipe with a damp paper towel . Finally, slice them .
Chop the onion and garlic finely. In a pan, flavor some oil with sage and rosemary , then add the chopped garlic and onion . Salt immediately and let wilt for about 10 minutes.
When the garlic and onion have wilted, add the mushrooms and sauté over medium heat for about 5 minutes. Adjust salt and pepper at the end of cooking , then remove the aromatic herbs .
Transfer half of the mushrooms to a container , pour 1/2 cup of water and blend with an immersion mixer until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous sauce .
At this point the roast will be cooked , so cut it into slices about 1/4 inch thick . You're ready to plate: distribute the sauce on the base of the plate , then place the slices of meat on top.
Finish with the whole mushrooms and some chopped rosemary . Your roast with mushrooms is ready to be served !
The roast with mushrooms can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, in an airtight container.
You can freeze it after cooking and slicing.
You can use the varieties of mushrooms you prefer or have available.

