name:
Mac and cheese donuts
ingredients:
Cellentani pasta: 4cups(500 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.67cups(400 g)
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Cheddar cheese: 2 ¾cups(300 g)
Provolone cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Edam cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Eggs: 4
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(100 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the time for setting in the refrigerator (at least 3 h)

instructions:
To make the mac and cheese donuts, first put a pot of water on to boil for the pasta, then dice the cheddar and provolone . Grate the Edam and Grana Padano PDO with a coarse grater . Pour the milk and cream into a small pot , season lightly with salt, pepper, and bring to just below boiling.
At this point, add the provolone and cheddar and melt the cheeses over medium-low heat for about 12 minutes, stirring gently with a whisk. Meanwhile, the water should have come to a boil, so salt it and cook the pasta al dente .
When the cheese cream is smooth and lump-free, turn off the heat and set aside . Drain the pasta in a large bowl, add the cheese cream and the grated Edam .
Add the grated Parmesan and mix well to combine everything . Spread the mixture on a tray with the help of a spoon , then refrigerate to set for at least 3 hours.
After the cooling time , cut circles using a 4.33-inch diameter cutter and make the center hole using a 0.79-inch diameter cutter .
Now take 3 bowls and fill them with flour, eggs, and breadcrumbs. Coat each donut first in the flour , then in the egg , and finally in the breadcrumbs to cover them evenly .
Heat seed oil in a pan to 340°F and fry one donut at a time for about 2 minutes , until golden . Drain your mac and cheese donuts on a paper towel to absorb excess oil and serve them hot and gooey !
It's recommended to consume the mac and cheese donuts as soon as they are ready. Alternatively, you can freeze the donuts before frying and fry them directly from frozen for a few more minutes, after letting them sit at room temperature for about ten minutes.
If you prefer, you can use other cheeses such as Fontina, Emmental, or Gruyère.


