name:
Semolina Focaccia with Sourdough Starter
ingredients:
Liquid sourdough starter: 1.3cups(300 g)- (already refreshed)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1.76lbs(800 g)
Manitoba flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Water: 3 ⅛cups(750 g)
Fine salt: 4 ¼tsp(25 g)
Dried tomatoes in oil: 3tbsp(40 g)- already drained
Anchovies in oil: 0.7oz(20 g)- already drained
Oregano: 1bunch
Water: 4tbsp(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(4 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 12
Cost: Low
Note For this recipe, it's necessary to have refreshed the liquid sourdough starter at least 5 hours in advance. The dough rising time is about 19 hours.

instructions:
To prepare the focaccia, pour the Liquid sourdough starter already refreshed at least 5 hours ago into a mixer along with half of the water . Start the mixer with the hook and add the flour and semolina spoonful by spoonful.
Gradually add the remaining water and when it's almost used up, add the salt . Add the remaining water and let the mixer work again . In total, it should run for 10 minutes on first speed and another 5 minutes on second speed.
When the dough is well combined, transfer it to a surface, fold it and round it up . Then, after shaping it into a ball, place it in a bowl
Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for an hour at room temperature, away from drafts. After an hour, transfer it to the refrigerator and let it mature for 18 hours , then transfer it to a slightly oiled surface .
At this point divide it into two pieces of about 2 lbs . Grease two trays measuring 14x11 inches .
Place a piece of dough inside each tray and wait 30 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the brine by mixing oil, water , and salt in a small bowl.
Mix with a fork to create the emulsion , then start spreading each focaccia with your hands . If the dough is resistant, let the focaccia rest a few more minutes and then continue stretching it. Top the two focaccias with sun-dried tomatoes ,
anchovies , and fresh oregano . Let rise for another 30 minutes. Pour the brine, dividing it over the two focaccias .
Then make the typical holes using the three middle fingers of your hand . Bake in a preheated static oven at 410°F for 30 minutes, then switch to fan mode and bake for another 5 minutes still at 410°F. Remove the focaccia from the oven and serve it still warm, or let it cool on a rack.
The focaccia can be kept well covered for up to 1 day. Alternatively, once cooked, it can be frozen, even already portioned.
Instead of the liquid sourdough starter, you can use 0.18 oz of fresh yeast. In this case, you will need to add 5.3 oz of flour and 5.3 oz of water (which would be contained in the sourdough starter) to the dough and adjust the rising times accordingly.
To use solid sourdough starter, you must use the same quantities indicated for the liquid one (10.58 oz) and add 2.65 oz of water to the dough. Rising times remain unchanged, as stated in the recipe sheet.

