name:
Risotto with Red Cabbage and Gorgonzola
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Red cabbage: 0.9lb(400 g)- (to be cleaned)
Gorgonzola cheese: 6.3oz(180 g)
Walnuts: 1cup(100 g)
White onions: 2.5oz(70 g)
Red wine: 0.42cup(100 g)
Vegetable broth: 3.3cups(800 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the risotto with red cabbage and Gorgonzola, start by cleaning the cabbage. Remove the outer leaves and cut it into thin slices, removing the thick white central part . Rinse under a stream of fresh water and drain . Then peel the onion and slice it thinly .
Move to the stove and keep the Vegetable broth hot. Put a pan on the heat with a drizzle of oil and stew the onion over low heat for a couple of minutes . Then add the red cabbage , cover with the lid, and cook for 5 minutes ,
the time needed to soften the leaves . Transfer about 2/3 of the cabbage to a tall, narrow glass and blend with an immersion blender to obtain a cream .
Proceed to cooking the rice. Pour it into the pan with the cabbage and toast it for 3 minutes, stirring with a ladle for 3 minutes . Then pour in the red wine
and let it almost completely evaporate before adding the hot vegetable broth and thus bringing it to cooking, adding more broth as needed . Stir occasionally .
When cooking is almost finished, prepare the other ingredients. Remove the rind from the Gorgonzola and cut it into pieces , then shell the walnuts and obtain 1.7 oz of kernels . Well, add the red cabbage cream to the risotto .
At this point, the risotto should be cooked; turn off the heat and season with salt, being careful not to overdo it , the Gorgonzola , and the Grana Padano .
Finally, add the walnut kernels and mix everything well . Your risotto with red cabbage and Gorgonzola is ready, enjoy your meal .
If you prefer, you can store your risotto with red cabbage and Gorgonzola in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
Mellow the flavor of the Gorgonzola, but don't give it up entirely, simply by using a mild Gorgonzola and mixing it with another creamy cheese like stracchino or crescenza. Additionally, you can enrich your risotto with red cabbage and Gorgonzola by adding some thyme leaves for a fragrant touch!

