name:
Mini hazelnut caprese
ingredients:
Hazelnuts: 1 ½cup(130 g)- toasted
Dark chocolate: 4.7oz(130 g)
Egg yolks: 5.6tbsp(80 g)- (about 4 medium)
Egg whites: 5oz(140 g)- (about 4 medium)
Butter: ½cup(130 g)- soft
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Potato starch: 3tbsp(25 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2tbsp(15 g)
Baking powder: 0.9tsp(4 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Raspberries: 12
Candied orange: 6- (the zest)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
First, grate the chocolate and set it aside . Place the hazelnuts in a blender and blend them .
Transfer the softened butter cubes into a bowl, add half of the powdered sugar , and mix everything with an electric mixer for 5 minutes . Add a pinch of salt ,
the egg yolks and beat for another 5 minutes , until you have obtained a smooth mixture .
Add the chopped hazelnuts and mix with a spatula . Add the grated chocolate
and mix again . Then sift in the cocoa powder , baking powder, and potato starch .
Mix again with a spatula until you obtain a smooth mixture . Transfer the egg whites and remaining powdered sugar into a bowl . Beat with an electric mixer until the egg whites are well whipped.
Add the egg whites to the batter a little at a time , mixing with a spatula from bottom to top until you obtain a smooth mixture . Butter 6 molds of 4 inches in diameter
and fill them with the batter . Bake at 356°F for about 20 minutes. Once the mini caprese cakes are baked, remove from the oven and let them cool completely before removing them from the mold. Transfer to a small plate
and decorate with powdered sugar , raspberries, and orange zest . Your mini hazelnut caprese cakes are ready to be served !
The mini hazelnut caprese cakes can be stored on a tray covered with plastic wrap for a couple of days. They can be frozen for about 1 month.
You can add flavor to the batter of your mini hazelnut caprese cakes by adding the grated zest of an orange.
Discover other hazelnut-based delights, like the traditional Hazelnut Cake and hazelnut and chocolate cake, a delicious variant!

