name:
Risotto with broccoli and cashews
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Broccoli: 4 ½cups(400 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp
Nutmeg: 1tsp
Garlic: 1clove
Anchovies in oil: 2
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Cashews: ¼cup(50 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 1.1oz(30 g)
Vegetable broth: 6.3cups(1.5 l)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parsley: 0.3cup(20 g)- chopped

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the risotto with broccoli and cashews, first cut the broccoli into florets and chop the stem into pieces . Rinse the broccoli and place them in a large pot, add water to cover the vegetables and salt .
Cook for about 20 minutes . Finally, drain the broccoli with a colander . Now, coarsely chop the cashews with a knife .
Toast the cashews in a non-stick pan for a few minutes . In a pot, pour a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil and brown the garlic clove, then add the drained anchovies in oil . Stir with a ladle until they melt .
Add the cooked and well-drained broccoli . Let it brown for about ten minutes. Add the rice and toast it for a few minutes, then add the vegetable broth one ladle at a time to cook the rice, stirring often.
After about 20 minutes, the rice will be cooked, turn off the heat and stir in the butter and grated cheese . Mix to combine , then season with parsley .
Salt, pepper , and flavor with nutmeg . Finally, incorporate the sun-dried tomatoes drained of oil and chopped .
Add most of the toasted cashews , save a handful for the final decoration. Mix one last time and serve the risotto with broccoli and cashews, sprinkling the remaining toasted cashews on each plate .
Risotto with broccoli and cashews should be consumed immediately, while hot. If you have leftovers, pour them into a baking dish and gratin in the oven for about 20 minutes. You'll get a delicious gratin!
Instead of using butter to stir the risotto, you can add robiola or stracchino cheese. The risotto will be just as creamy!

