name:
Sweet Puff Pastry Shells
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1foglio- rectangular
Butter: 2tbsp(25 g)- (to melt)
Sugar: 8tbsp(100 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.8cup(200 g)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Candied orange: 2.1oz(60 g)
Sultan grapes: 1.1oz(30 g)
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 ml)
Egg yolks: 2
Sugar: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Type 00 flour: 3tbsp(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the sweet puff pastry shells, first make the custard. Pour the milk into a saucepan and heat it on the stove. Meanwhile, pour the egg yolks and sugar into a bowl . Whisk until you get a whipped mixture . Add the flour
and mix it with the rest using the whisk . As soon as the milk starts to boil, pour in the egg, sugar, and flour mixture and stir quickly. Keep stirring until the custard thickens .
Transfer the custard to a small bowl, cover with plastic wrap touching the surface and let it cool. When the custard is cold, sieve the ricotta into another bowl , add the sugar .
Then add the candied orange cubes and raisins . Mix everything. Add the custard ,
mix again and store the mixture in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap. Unroll the puff pastry and cut it in half widthwise . Brush one half with the melted butter
and sprinkle it with sugar . Start rolling the pastry from right to left and before finishing, place the second strip of pastry on top, making it adhere to the previous layer, as if the two pastries were joined .
Brush this part as well with the melted butter and sprinkle with granulated sugar . Continue rolling ,
until you get a roll about 2.5 inches thick . Wrap in plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. At this point, take the roll and cut slices about 0.75 inches thick .
You should obtain 8 swirls . Using a small rolling pin, roll each swirl to get an oval shape . Place a tablespoon of filling in the center ,
spreading it slightly and leaving a free edge . Fold in half to form a pouch . Press the edges well and seal them with the tines of a fork .
Roll the shells in granulated sugar and transfer them to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Bake in a preheated static oven at 430°F for about 25 minutes. When they are well-golden, take them out of the oven and let them cool completely before serving.
It is recommended to enjoy the shells immediately after preparation. Alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator for one day.
Instead of raisins and candied fruit, use chocolate chips for an even more delicious result!

