name:
Baked gnocchi with mushrooms
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(175 g)
Fine salt: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Oyster mushroom or oyster fungus (Pleurotus): 10.6oz(300 g)- (cleaned)
Champignon mushrooms: 4 ½cups(300 g)
Valtellina Casera cheese: 5.25oz(150 g)- aged
Prosciutto crudo: 3.5oz(100 g)- whole slice
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)- to be grated
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Rosemary: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the mushroom au gratin gnocchi, first boil the potatoes for the gnocchi: place the potatoes in a pot, cover with cold water, bring to a boil, and cook for about 30-40 minutes, depending on their size . Meanwhile, prepare the ingredients for the seasoning: clean the mushrooms and cut the pleurotus into irregular pieces , then slice the champignons about 1/4 inch thick .
Cut the slice of prosciutto into cubes . In a large frying pan, pour a drizzle of oil and sauté the garlic clove with rosemary for 1-2 minutes, then add the prosciutto and the halved chili and increase the heat for 3-4 minutes.
At this point, add the mushrooms , salt , pepper, and cook over low heat for about 15 minutes. After this time, remove the garlic and the chili and set aside.
When the potatoes are cooked, mash them hot on a work surface using a potato masher , then add the flour and salt .
Knead with your hands until you get a soft but compact dough . Take a portion of dough at a time and form logs about 3/4 inch thick .
Cut the logs into pieces with the help of a dough scraper and roll each one on a gnocchi board or the tines of a fork, pressing lightly with your thumb . Place the gnocchi on a floured cloth and put a pot with plenty of water on the stove to bring to a boil. Meanwhile, dice the cheese .
Drop the gnocchi into the boiling water . As soon as they float to the surface, drain the gnocchi and pour them into the pan with the seasoning , then sauté on high heat for a few seconds, mixing well. Now take a baking dish and oil the base with a drizzle of oil .
Pour in half of the seasoned gnocchi and half of the diced cheese , then add the rest of the gnocchi .
Finish with the remaining diced cheese, add a few knobs of butter on top , and sprinkle with grated Grana. Season with a grind of pepper and bake in a preheated ventilated oven at 392°F for 10 minutes, then turn on the grill and brown for 3 minutes. Your mushroom au gratin gnocchi are ready to be served !
The mushroom au gratin gnocchi can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
You can freeze the raw gnocchi by placing them first on a tray and then transferring them to a food bag, so they don't stick together. Drop the frozen gnocchi directly into boiling water, taking care to cook a few at a time, otherwise, the water temperature will drop, and the gnocchi will dissolve.
If you prefer, you can use parsley instead of rosemary or substitute the casera with another less aged melting cheese. You can vary the type of mushrooms depending on the season!

