name:
Chickpea Crepe with Salt Cod Mousse
ingredients:
Chickpea flour: 1.1cups(100 g)
Water: 1cup(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Fine salt: 1pinch
Desalted cod: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Crescenza cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Sage: 1leaf
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Parsley: 2 ½tsp(5 g)
Chives: to taste
Black pepper: 1tsp
Nutmeg: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + rest for 1 hour for the batter

instructions:
To make the chickpea crepes with salt cod mousse, start by preparing the batter. Put the chickpea flour in a bowl , add the water , then a pinch of salt and a tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil .
Mix with a hand whisk and let it rest for an hour . Move on to preparing the salt cod mousse. Place the already soaked salt cod fillet on a cutting board , make a small incision at the tail end and with a sharp kitchen knife separate the flesh from the skin to remove the latter . Slide the blade along the cutting board, holding the tail part with the other hand, to make the blade glide better.
Now cut the fillet lengthwise into two parts and then into pieces . Put the salt cod in a saucepan along with the garlic clove .
Pour in the milk , sage, bay leaf , and cook on medium heat for 5 minutes .
Turn off the heat and let it cool . Drain the cold salt cod from the saucepan and place it in a blender. Add the crescenza cheese , a pinch of salt, a teaspoon of pepper and a teaspoon of nutmeg. Flavor with the parsley and blend for a few minutes.
You should obtain a soft mousse . Now cook the crepes: in a small pan about 5.5 inches in diameter, heat a little extra virgin olive oil then remove the excess with a piece of kitchen paper. Take the crepe batter, stir with the whisk, and pour a ladleful of batter in the center of the hot pan . Rotate the pan so that the batter evenly covers the entire surface.
Cook for 1-2 minutes then flip the crepe with a spatula. Cook the other side as well . As you cook the crepes, place them on a plate .
Once cooled, fill the crepes with 1-2 tablespoons of salt cod mousse and fold them like a book . Season with chopped chives and serve your chickpea crepes with salt cod mousse .
You can store the salt cod mousse in the fridge for a couple of days. The crepes can be stored individually in the fridge for a couple of days, covered with plastic wrap to prevent them from drying out. Alternatively, you can freeze them.
As an alternative to parsley, you can use thyme or mint leaves.

