name:
Vanilla soufflé
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Eggs: 7.8oz(220 g)- (about 4 medium)
Powdered sugar: 0.67cup(80 g)
Cornstarch: 4 ¼tbsp(60 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Butter: to taste
Sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the infusion time (at least 4 h)

instructions:
To make the vanilla soufflé, first cut the vanilla bean lengthwise, scrape the seeds with the blade of a small knife , and set them aside. Pour the milk into a small jug, add the vanilla bean , cover with plastic wrap, and let it infuse in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours, preferably overnight .
After this time, pour the milk with the vanilla bean into a saucepan and bring to a boil . Meanwhile, pour the powdered sugar and cornstarch into a bowl , add a pinch of salt and the vanilla bean seeds , and mix everything well.
When the milk comes to a boil, remove the saucepan from the heat and discard the vanilla bean , then pour the dry ingredients into the saucepan while stirring with a whisk to prevent lumps .
Now separate the egg yolks from the whites. Still off the heat, add the yolks to the saucepan and stir again with the whisk , then pour the mixture into a bowl. Whip the egg whites in a separate bowl, but do not whip them too stiffly .
The consistency should be like this , otherwise, the soufflé will struggle to rise. Gradually incorporate the egg whites into the yolk mixture , stirring with a spatula from bottom to top to prevent them from deflating .
At this point, butter 6 molds with a base diameter of 3 inches, 3.5 inches at the top, and 2.5 inches in height, then sprinkle the base, sides, and edge with granulated sugar . Pour the mixture into the molds up to the rim and bake for 30 minutes in a preheated static oven at 356°F. Once cooked , serve your vanilla soufflés immediately!
The mixture cannot be prepared in advance.
It is recommended to consume the vanilla soufflés immediately as they will tend to deflate after baking.
Freezing is not recommended.
Letting the vanilla bean infuse in the milk overnight will give a more intense aroma that will help cover the egg smell. Remember to never open the oven during baking as the temperature change will cause the soufflé to deflate!

