name:
Rabbit with beer and confit cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Rabbit: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- in pieces
Blond beer: 1.67cups(400 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Carrots: 1
White onions: 2oz(50 g)
Celery: 1rib
Rosemary: 1sprig
Sage: 3leaves
Ground black pepper: 20
Fennel seeds: 1tsp(5 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Cherry tomatoes: 3.3cups(500 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 2 hours of marination

instructions:
To make rabbit with beer and cherry tomatoes, first peel the carrot, remove the celery strings, and peel the onion and garlic clove . Cut the vegetables into smaller but coarse pieces and place them in a food processor . Season with sage and rosemary and blend everything.
You should obtain a homogeneous mixture . Take the rabbit cut into pieces and place it in a large bowl, add the vegetable and herb mixture .
Season with whole peppercorns , fennel seeds , and beer .
Cover with plastic wrap and let it marinate in the fridge for about 2 hours. Meanwhile, cut the cherry tomatoes in half on the cutting board , place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper with the cut side facing up and drizzle with some oil .
Sprinkle them with granulated sugar and dried oregano , season with salt, and bake in a preheated static oven at 194°F (approximately 90°C) for about 70-75 minutes until they are caramelized. After about 20 minutes, start cooking the rabbit: in a non-stick pan, heat 4 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil, drain the rabbit pieces, keeping the marinade, and brown them well on both sides over high heat .
Continue cooking for about 50 minutes, basting with some ladles of marinade as it is absorbed and season with salt .
At the end of cooking , the rabbit will have a nice sauce, retrieve the now-cooked confit cherry tomatoes , and serve the rabbit with beer and confit cherry tomatoes hot .
The confit cherry tomatoes can be stored in the fridge covered with plastic wrap for about 3 days. Do not freeze them. The rabbit with beer can be stored in the fridge for one day in an airtight container.
A light beer with a delicate taste is recommended to avoid making the flavor of the rabbit too intense and bitter.

