name:
Two-tone roll with zabaglione
ingredients:
Eggs: 7.75oz(220 g)- (approximately 4 medium)
Type 00 flour: 2.5oz(70 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(20 g)
Sugar: ⅓cup(70 g)
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)
Egg yolks: 8
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Marsala wine: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the two-tone roll with zabaglione, start with the latter. In a mixing bowl, pour the yolks and sugar , mix them with a whisk before incorporating the Marsala wine . Then place the bowl in a pot with water and cook in a double boiler over low heat, stirring continuously .
You'll need to whisk vigorously for about half an hour, bringing the temperature between 158°F and 167°F: use a kitchen thermometer to be sure . Once you have obtained a frothy and denser mixture, move the bowl into a larger one with cold water . Continue stirring until it has cooled down, then place the bowl in the refrigerator until it sets completely .
Meanwhile, move on to the sponge cake. Separate the yolks from the egg whites and whip the whites to stiff peaks with an electric mixer; once ready, place them in the refrigerator . Move on to the yolks, add the sugar, and whip these too .
Once you have a fairly thick cream , pour it into the bowl with the egg whites , sift the flour
and gently fold everything together . Then divide the batter by pouring one-third of the mixture into another bowl and sift the unsweetened cocoa into this one .
And in this case too, mix gently to avoid deflating the mixture . Now that you have everything, you need to pour the mixture onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Alternating them, create 3 strips of light batter and 2 of dark batter . Run a wooden skewer from one side to the other so that the batter looks sewn once baked .
Proceed with the baking in a static oven, preheated to 356°F, for about 12 minutes . Let it cool completely . Flip the sponge cake onto another sheet of parchment paper and detach what has remained stuck from the baking.
Retrieve the zabaglione from the refrigerator and spread it over the entire surface of the sponge cake, making sure to leave a couple of inches free on each side . Roll it up gently with the help of the sheet of parchment paper , and your two-tone roll with zabaglione is ready .
You can store the two-tone roll with zabaglione in the refrigerator for a maximum of 2-3 days, keeping it under a cover or plastic wrap.
Flavor the batter of your two-tone roll with zabaglione by grating the zest of a lemon or an orange. You could also make it more delicious by adding chocolate chips to the cold zabaglione!

