name:
Bled cake
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 2fogli- (rectangular, each 460 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Whole milk: 3cups(700 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Eggs: 4
Sugar: 0.8cup(160 g)
Rum: ½tbsp(10 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 2 ¾cups(650 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.67cup(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 12
Cost: Average
Note + 12 hours of resting time between fridge and freezer

instructions:
To prepare the Bled cake, start by baking the puff pastry: take the first rectangle and place it on the tray lined with parchment paper. Prick the surface with the specific tool or the tines of a fork. Dust with powdered sugar and bake in a static oven, preheated to 390°F, for about 15 minutes. Do the same for the second rectangle of pastry .
Meanwhile, as the puff pastry rectangles cool, take care of the pastry cream. In a saucepan, pour 21 oz of milk and the vanilla bean cut open, with seeds already scraped . While the milk heats, separate the egg whites from the yolks and work the latter with half of the sugar ,
the flour and the remaining 3.5 oz of milk . Be careful not to form lumps, then add the rum .
Remove the vanilla bean from the now hot milk and pour the egg, sugar, and flour mixture into the pot with the now hot milk . Continue to stir with the whisk until you have obtained a smooth and firm cream . Set the cream aside for a moment (you will need to use it still warm) and proceed to whip the egg whites to stiff peaks in a clean bowl with clean whisks .
While whipping the egg whites, add the remaining sugar in a drizzle . As soon as the egg whites are whipped, immediately pour them into the still warm cream and mix gently with movements from bottom to top . Retrieve the puff pastry and place it in a 10x13 inch mold (trim the edges if needed) .
Pour the cream obtained and level it carefully . Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 8-12 hours .
After the resting time, whip the cream with the powdered sugar , pour it onto the now firm base , and spread it evenly
Place the second layer of puff pastry on top and gently compact it, then let it firm up in the freezer for at least 3 hours. This process ensures that you can portion the Bled cake without problems . Cut the Bled cake into 12 pieces of 2.75x2.75 inches and dust with powdered sugar. Your Bled cake is ready .
The Bled cake keeps in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, covered or in an airtight container.
If you prefer, you can freeze it in portions.
Enrich your Bled cake by spreading a layer of red fruit jam, such as currants or raspberries, between the pastry cream and the whipped cream. For a chocolate version, simply finely chop it and always place it between the two creams.
You can use pasteurized egg whites for this recipe if you prefer.
You can also work the egg whites and sugar like the preparation of the Italian Meringue (stopping before baking) with the Bled cake dosages, to add it to the pastry cream as indicated and achieve an even more stable consistency!
The Bled cake carries this name referencing both the small region in northern Slovenia and the famous lake with the medieval castle in its center. The cake is also known as Bled cream cake or by its Slovenian name Kremna Rezina , which roughly translates to "rubber cream" in Italian. This is already indicative of the cake's unique consistency. At the Slovenian pavilion of Expo 2015, the Bled cake was one of the best-selling and most appreciated cakes!

