name:
Blueberry Millefeuille
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 2- (rectangular)
Powdered sugar: 0.8tbsp(10 g)
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ½cup(350 g)- cold
Sugar: 0.7cup(140 g)
Egg yolks: 4.9tbsp(70 g)- (about 4)
Cornstarch: 5 ½tbsp(45 g)
Powdered sugar: ⅓cup(40 g)
Lemon peel: ½
Blueberries: 1 ½cup(180 g)- frozen
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the cooling times of the preparations

instructions:
To make the blueberry millefeuille, start by preparing the pastry cream. In a small pot, pour the milk and the zest of half an untreated lemon, taking care to only take the yellow part. Bring the milk to a boil and in the meantime place the egg yolks, sugar , and corn starch in a bowl.
Mix with a hand whisk . Once the milk reaches a boil, strain it into the egg mixture gradually, mixing , then return everything to moderate heat .
Stir continuously, until the cream thickens (it will only take a few moments) . Once ready, pour the cream into a wide and shallow bowl and cover with plastic wrap in contact . Let it cool first at room temperature and then in the refrigerator. Meanwhile, prepare the puff pastry: roll out the pastry sheets, then place them on baking trays lined with baking paper. Poke the surface with the prongs of a fork .
Dust with powdered sugar and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 15 minutes, until golden . Once cooked, remove from the oven and let cool. Meanwhile, work on the blueberries: in a pan, add the frozen blueberries and sugar .
Add the grated lemon zest, only taking the outer yellow part . Stir gently and cook over medium heat for about 5-6 minutes. Turn off and set aside to let them cool . Now whip the cream: make sure it's very cold, add the powdered sugar, and whip with a mixer at medium speed .
You should achieve a semi-whipped consistency . Now you can take the pastry cream from the refrigerator, work it for a few moments with a spatula or a mixer to soften it, then add a little bit of cream to the mixture , stirring quickly with the spatula. Then add the remaining cream, mixing this time from top to bottom to avoid deflating it. The diplomatic cream is ready, you can transfer it to a piping bag with a 15 mm plain nozzle .
When the puff pastry is cool, you can cut it into 3 rectangles and then each rectangle into 3 pieces, using a serrated knife . Each portion will be made up of 3 layers of pastry and 2 of cream. Place the first piece on a serving plate, pipe dollops of cream , then sprinkle with some blueberries and their cooking juices .
Place another rectangle of pastry , then add more cream and blueberries .
Finally, the last layer . Dust with powdered sugar and continue with the other portions of blueberry millefeuille .
It would be best to consume the blueberry millefeuille within a few hours after composing it.
The cream can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days in an airtight container, and the pastry at room temperature in a tin container or under a glass dome.
The sautéed blueberries can also be stored for 2-3 days in the fridge in an airtight container.

You can flavor the cream with rum or brandy, use mixed red fruits instead of blueberries, and add mint leaves for a touch of freshness.

