name:
Pork cheeks with polenta
ingredients:
Pork jowl: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Red wine: 0.42cup(100 g)
Tomato purée: 2cups(500 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Celery: 1rib
White onions: 1
Carrots: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fioretto corn flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Fine salt: ½spoonful
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tsp(7 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the cheeks with polenta, first clean and finely chop the vegetables (carrot, onion, and celery) and the garlic for the sauté . Also, chop the rosemary and cut the pork cheeks into bite-sized pieces .
Take a cast iron pan and pour in a drizzle of oil . Add the chopped vegetables and garlic and rosemary, and let them sauté over moderate heat until they are wilted. This will take about 5 minutes. At this point, add the cheeks .
Increase the heat and brown them on all sides . Deglaze with the red wine and let the wine evaporate, keeping the heat high . Also, pour in the tomato puree .
Salt , pepper, cover with a lid , and lower the heat to a minimum. Cook for 100 minutes, stirring occasionally. Meanwhile, prepare the polenta: place a thick-bottomed stainless steel pot with water on the stove, and when the water is about to boil, add the salt .
Pour the cornmeal in a steady stream while stirring with a wooden spoon , maintain cooking at high temperature while stirring quickly. Also, add the oil and continue stirring until it resumes boiling, then lower the heat to a minimum and continue cooking for 50 minutes over low heat, stirring continuously .
After 50 minutes, the polenta is ready; increase the heat so it detaches well from the pot . Meanwhile, the cheeks will also be cooked ; serve them hot together with the polenta .
You can store the cheeks for a couple of days in the refrigerator in an airtight container. It is possible to freeze them if you have used fresh ingredients. The polenta can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 3-4 days, but we do not recommend freezing it.
If you like strong flavors, you can make the preparation spicier by adding cloves during cooking.

