name:
Lumaconi with pumpkin and caciocavallo
ingredients:
Lumaconi pasta: 3 ½cups(320 g)
Butternut squash: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (to clean)
Caciocavallo cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.42cup(100 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Breadcrumbs: 4tbsp(30 g)
Thyme: 1sprig
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to grate)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the lumaconi with pumpkin and caciocavallo, first, put a pot of water on the stove for cooking the pasta, to be salted when it boils, then clean the pumpkin and cut it into cubes : you should obtain about 530 g of pulp. In a saucepan, melt the butter with the oil along with the garlic clove and rosemary sprigs , then add the pumpkin .
Salt , pepper, cover with the lid , and cook over medium heat for about 10 minutes. When the pumpkin is cooked, remove the garlic and rosemary from the pan and set aside.
Thinly slice the caciocavallo . Butter a baking dish and sprinkle it with breadcrumbs and fresh thyme leaves . At this point, the water will have come to a boil, so add the lumaconi and cook them for half the cooking time indicated.
Meanwhile, take some of the pumpkin from the pan and transfer it to a tall, narrow container, add the cream and a ladle of the pasta cooking water and blend with an immersion blender to obtain a smooth cream .
After the cooking time, drain the lumaconi and add them to the pumpkin left in the pan, mixing well . Now transfer half of the seasoned lumaconi to the baking dish and distribute half of the sliced caciocavallo on top .
Pour in half of the pumpkin cream and repeat the layers by adding the remaining shells , the rest of the caciocavallo, and the remaining cream .
Sprinkle the surface with grated Grana Padano PDO and thyme, add a drizzle of oil , and bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for 15 minutes. Finally, turn on the grill for another 3 minutes, then serve your lumaconi with pumpkin and caciocavallo piping hot !
The lumaconi with pumpkin and caciocavallo can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. You can freeze them after cooking and allowing them to cool completely.
You can replace the cream for the sauce with the pasta cooking water. If you prefer, you can use sage instead of thyme!

