name:
Pink Grapefruit Jam
ingredients:
Pink grapefruits: 4.4lbs(2 kg)
Sugar: 2cups(400 g)
Thyme: 6sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the maceration time

instructions:
To prepare the pink grapefruit jam, start by sanitizing the jars and lids following the guidelines provided by the Ministry of Health, which you can find in the box at the bottom of the recipe. Meanwhile, wash and dry the grapefruits. Peel them to remove the white part and then cut the pulp into pieces . If you notice seeds, remove them. Collect the grapefruit pieces in a bowl, pour in the sugar
mix and let it marinate for at least an hour . Meanwhile, take the peel of one pink grapefruit, scrape off the bitter white part, and cut the rind into very thin strips . Place the peel in a saucepan with boiling water and boil for about 1 minute .
Drain and repeat this operation 2 more times with the same timing . At this point, take back the bowl with the grapefruits and sugar; you'll notice a lot of liquid .
Pour the pulp into a stainless steel pot along with the liquid that has come out , add the stripped thyme sprigs , and the peels that have been blanched several times .
Turn on the stove at medium-low temperature and let it simmer gently for about 40 minutes . In the last 5 minutes, increase the heat to evaporate excess liquid and bring it to 226°F, measuring with a thermometer. Then, at this point, pour the still-hot pink grapefruit jam into the jars and close them . Enjoy it whenever you like on toasted bread with butter .
The marinating is necessary for the pulp to release all its juice; it's a process that you can skip, but the cooking time may increase a bit. You can let it macerate for up to 12 hours in a cool place.
Pink grapefruit jam can be stored for 2-3 months if vacuum sealed.
If you open the jar, keep it in the fridge and consume it within a few days.
Thanks to the thyme, the pink grapefruit jam will have a much more pleasant aroma, but you can replace it with finely chopped rosemary for a woody note or omit the herbs if you don't like them. The peels will give a nice bitter note, so you can choose to omit them completely or blanch up to 5 times to reduce the taste.
Homemade preparation of preserves and jams can present health risks. In a domestic environment, it's not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures can guarantee to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to scrupulously follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but one must always keep in mind that the same food safety as commercially produced preserves and jams cannot be achieved. For correct preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

