name:
Winter salad with polenta croutons
ingredients:
Polenta: 4cups(550 g)
Fennel: 7oz(200 g)
Spinach: 3 ½cups(100 g)
Red cabbage: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Roquefort: 1.8oz(50 g)
Pistachios: ½cup(50 g)- shelled
White grapes: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.7tbsp(50 g)
Balsamic vinegar: 1.7tbsp(25 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the time for the polenta to set

instructions:
To prepare the winter salad, take the Polenta and spread it on a 12 x 9-inch baking tray lined with parchment paper , distributing it with a spatula to create a layer about 0.4 inches thick. Cover with plastic wrap and place in the fridge for about 20 minutes.
In the meantime, wash the grapes and place the bunches in a bowl . Wash, trim, and thinly slice the fennel and cut the cabbage into strips as well .
Cut the cheese into small pieces and take the polenta out. First, cut horizontal strips 0.8 inches wide and then cut vertical strips of the same size to obtain cubes 0.8x0.8 inches about 0.4 inches thick .
At this point, heat the seed oil for frying to a temperature of 340°F, immerse a few polenta cubes at a time and fry them until golden brown, then drain them on a tray lined with absorbent paper .
Now that all the ingredients are ready, you can compose the salad: in a large bowl, pour in the baby spinach, fennel , cabbage, shelled pistachios , and grape bunches .
To complete, also add the polenta cubes and the Roquefort cheese . Prepare the dressing by pouring the oil, salt, pepper, and vinegar into a small bowl .
Mix to blend the dressing and pour it over the salad just before serving it at the table . The winter salad with polenta croutons is ready to be enjoyed !
We recommend consuming the winter salad with polenta croutons immediately.
Is the flavor of Roquefort too strong for your taste? Replace it with Grana Padano shavings!
If you're looking for other recipes to use up leftover polenta, try our Polenta pizza !

