name:
Clear-the-fridge soup
ingredients:
Neapolitin pumpkin: 1.2lbs(540 g)
Potatoes: 13.4oz(380 g)
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 0.7lb(300 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Green beans: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Red onions: 2.1oz(60 g)
Dried chili pepper: 2
Coarse salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Bread: 4slices
Fine salt: to taste
Oregano: to taste- dry

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the clear-the-fridge soup, first prepare the vegetables: clean the pumpkin and cut it into pieces , you will need about 1 pound of flesh, then peel the potatoes and dice them as well . Cut the black cabbage into strips .
Cut the cherry tomatoes in half , then trim the green beans and cut them into 2 or 3 parts . Finally, clean the onion and slice it finely .
Heat a splash of oil in a large pot, add the onion and let it stew for a few minutes. Add the pumpkin and mix, then add the potatoes .
Add the black cabbage, green beans , and cherry tomatoes , stir and cook for 3-4 minutes over medium heat, then add the chopped chili .
At this point, pour in the water to cover the vegetables , add the coarse salt , cover with a lid , and cook over low heat for about 40 minutes or until the vegetables are cooked.
In the meantime, take care of the croutons: cut the bread into cubes , put them in a preheated pan and season with oil , salt, and oregano .
Toast the croutons until they are golden brown , then set them aside. When the vegetables are cooked, blend the soup with an immersion blender to obtain a smooth consistency .
Pour the vegetable puree into the plates , add the croutons , and drizzle with a bit of raw oil: your clear-the-fridge soup is ready to be served hot !
The clear-the-fridge soup can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. You can freeze it after blending and keep it in the freezer for about a month.
Flavor the clear-the-fridge soup with herbs or spices to your liking, or enrich it with short pasta, rice, or grains.
If you prefer, you can toast the croutons in the oven instead of in a pan.

