name:
Soft Loaves
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 7 ¾cups(1 kg)
Water: 2 ½cups(600 g)- warm
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: 4 ½tsp(25 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.25oz(8 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + at least 3 and a half hours of rising time

instructions:
To make the soft loaves, first pour the sugar and crumbled yeast into the warm water and stir with a teaspoon to dissolve everything .
Put the flour in a large bowl and gradually add the oil and the water and yeast mixture , alternating the liquids while kneading with your hands to combine the ingredients. Once the liquids are added, also add the salt .
Continue kneading until you get a homogeneous mixture , then transfer it to the work surface and knead it briefly to form a ball . Put the dough back in the bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let rise for at least 3 hours in the oven off with the light on.
After the rising time, divide the dough into 4 portions of 1 lb each and form balls that you will roll out with a rolling pin .
You should get an elliptical shape about 12 inches long . Now roll the dough from the longest side, pressing with your fingers at each turn so that the roll holds its shape , then pinch the seam to seal it .
Transfer the obtained loaves onto 2 baking sheets lined with parchment paper, placing the seam side down. Make cuts on the surface, then brush with the yolk and water mixture and let rise for another 30 minutes. After this time, bake one sheet at a time in a preheated fan oven at 356°F for about 30 minutes, placing it on the middle shelf. Once the buns are baked , remove from the oven and let cool on a rack. Your soft loaves are ready to be enjoyed !
The soft loaves can be stored in a well-closed paper bag for about 3 days. They can be frozen after cooking and completely cooled.
For an even softer result, you can replace the oil with the same amount of butter, after melting and cooling it. Garnish with seeds on the surface for a crunchy touch!

