name:
Fregola with pumpkin and mussels
ingredients:
Fregola pasta: 10.6oz(300 g)
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Delica pumpkin: 2cups(650 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Parsley: 2tufts
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Water: 1.7cups(400 g)
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the fregola with pumpkin and mussels, start by cleaning the mussels. First, wash them under running water ; then, using the back of a knife, remove the encrustations on the shell and, with your hands, detach the byssus, the thread sticking out from the mussels. Then, using a scrubbing pad, clean the shell thoroughly , rinsing them under water as you go. Set the mussels aside for a moment and attend to the pumpkin.
Remove the peel with a knife and any seeds or internal filaments. Now cut it first into slices and then into cubes .
Sauté a clove of garlic with a splash of oil in a pan, add the pumpkin and let it brown for a few minutes. Meanwhile, in another pan, put garlic, oil, and parsley , let it fry as well, then add the mussels .
and cover with a lid and let the shells open . Once the pumpkin is well browned, pour in 100 ml of water and cook it over medium heat for about ten minutes. Meanwhile, as soon as the mussels have opened ,
transfer them to a bowl , leaving the cooking liquid in the pan, which you should then filter and keep warm. At this point, separate the mussels from the shells, being careful not to burn yourself, leaving some whole for the final decoration .
At this point, remove the garlic clove from the pumpkin, pour in the fregola and let it toast . Pour the mussel cooking liquid into a saucepan and add 300 ml of water. Put everything on the stove to heat .
After a couple of minutes, add the first ladle of mussel broth and continue cooking, adding more broth as needed and adjusting the amount based on the consistency of the preparation. Salt, pepper , and stir often. It will take about 20 minutes. When the fregola is cooked, add the mussels .
Stir and flavor with chopped parsley . Serve the fregola with mussels and pumpkin, decorating with the whole mussels set aside !
Fregola with pumpkin and mussels can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
Add shrimp, clams, and other seafood delicacies. The addition of fresh mushrooms is also recommended, perfect for a dish that brings sea and garden together!

