name:
Neapolitan Braciole in Sauce
ingredients:
Sliced beef: 4- 150 g per slice, of Shoulder or Blade
Tomato purée: 3cups(700 g)
Red wine: 3tbsp(50 g)
Yellow onions: 2.1oz(60 g)
Raisins: 1 ½tbsp(15 g)
Pine nuts: 1tbsp(10 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 0.4oz(10 g)
Garlic: 1- clove
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the Neapolitan braciole in sauce, start with the latter. Thinly slice a cleaned onion , place it in a saucepan where you've poured some oil and let it stew for 5 minutes on low heat . Once the onion is sweated, add the tomato purée ,
stir and let it cook for half an hour to reduce, covering with a lid; season with salt . Meanwhile, prepare the filling for the braciole. Finely chop the parsley and garlic . Then coarsely chop raisins and pine nuts
and now that you have everything, pound the meat slices to thin them . On the first meat slice, place some parsley and garlic , then raisins and pine nuts, and finally a sprinkle of pecorino and pepper .
Roll up and secure with skewers . Repeat for all. Then, in a pan, heat the oil and a clove of garlic, add the meat slices
and quickly brown them to seal the surface . Remove the garlic and deglaze with red wine .
As soon as the alcohol has evaporated, add the cooked sauce and let it infuse for a few more minutes, avoiding overcooking the meat . Here are your Neapolitan braciole in sauce ready, enjoy your meal .
It is recommended to consume the Neapolitan braciole in sauce immediately because the texture tends to become tough. However, you can store them for a couple of days in the refrigerator. If you prefer, you can also freeze them, better if cooked and if you have used fresh ingredients.
Originally, Neapolitan braciole in sauce are prepared together with the ragù, so they should be simmered along with all the meat pieces and then covered in purée, cooking for a couple of hours which results in tender meat. However, if you follow our quick version, we recommend keeping an eye on the cooking, thus cooking the meat for a very short time to preserve the texture. Therefore, alternatively, you can follow these instructions or our faster version. The filling, however, varies from family to family: olives, anchovies, breadcrumbs, and even eggs. Tell us yours!

