name:
Camembert and Bordeaux Onion Galette
ingredients:
Camembert cheese: 2- pieces of 250 g each
Rosemary: to taste
Sage: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Whole grain farro flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
Water: 1.8oz(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Red onions: 12.4oz(350 g)
Shallot: 2.1oz(60 g)
Rosemary: 1- sprig
Sage: 1- bunch
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Brown sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)
Red wine: 0.3cup(70 g)- Bordeaux

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the spelt galettes with camembert and Bordeaux onions, start with the dough. In a bowl, pour the whole spelt flour and water , then the oil , the salt, and start kneading .
until you have obtained a homogeneous dough that you will let rest in the fridge for about half an hour . After the time has passed, retrieve the dough and divide it into two pieces . Begin to roll them out, one at a time, with the help of a rolling pin on a lightly floured surface, obtaining a thin sheet about 9 inches .
In the middle of the sheet, place a cheese form , superficially cut , and then scent with sage, oregano, and rosemary .
Do the same with the other part of the dough and close it. Then place the galettes on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and drizzle the surface with a drop of oil . Bake in a ventilated oven, preheated to 350°F, for about 25-30 minutes + a couple of minutes of grill . In the meantime, you can take care of the onions, peel them and slice them thinly .
Do the same with the shallots . Now, move to the stove. In a saucepan, heat a drop of oil together with sage, rosemary, and cinnamon . After a few minutes, add the onions and shallots and continue cooking for a moment .
before adding the sugar and letting it caramelize . Deglaze with Bordeaux and let it cook for 10 minutes . At the end of cooking, remove the aromas and let them cool slightly .
At this point, you should have everything ready, both the galettes and the onions. On the slightly cooled galettes, pour some of the onions , garnish the surface with thyme , and serve your camembert and Bordeaux onion galettes accompanied with honey and fruit .
It is not recommended to store the Camembert and Bordeaux Onion Galette as the crust and cheese may lose consistency.
The dough, however, when raw, can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days or frozen if needed.
The onions can also be prepared in advance for up to a couple of days.
Replace the aromatic herbs to your liking to best scent your camembert and Bordeaux onion galettes!

