name:
Chicken Ramen
ingredients:
Noodles: 10oz(280 g)
Chicken breast: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Soy sauce: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Honey: 1spoonful
Sesame seeds: 1spoonful
Fresh scallion: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fresh ginger: 4tsp(20 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Chicken: 2.6lbs(1.2 kg)
Carrots: 3
Yellow onions: 2
Fresh ginger: 1.1oz(30 g)
Ground black pepper: 1spoonful
Lemongrass: 3- stalks
Soy sauce: 1 ⅓tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the chicken ramen, first take care of the Chicken broth place a cleaned whole chicken in a large pot along with washed and chopped carrots , peeled and divided onions, ginger in pieces , then add the black peppercorns .
Cover with water and finally add the lemongrass, smashed on the counter and broken into pieces by hand . Let everything simmer for about an hour. In the meantime, Hard Boiled Eggs in water and when ready, peel and cut them in half .
Move on to the chicken breast: after cleaning off any tendons and the central bone, cut it into thin slices . Place them in a container and season with soy sauce ,
Add oil and honey as well . Mix and let it rest for a few minutes or until you notice that the chicken broth is finally ready . Heat up a grill and place the chicken slices, cooking them for 3 minutes on one side and 2 on the other .
Sprinkle the chicken with sesame seeds and cut into thin strips . At this point, only the cooking of the pasta is missing: add the soy sauce to the broth from which you have removed the chicken and other ingredients.
Then bring to a boil and toss in the noodles . While they cook, cut the cleaned ginger into strips and the scallion into diagonal pieces. Slice the chili and remove the seeds. Move on to plating: in the bowls, place the chicken and ginger , then the chili and scallion .
Finally, drain the noodles . Drizzle with the broth and garnish each bowl with the egg. Your chicken ramen is ready, serve immediately !
The broth used to cook the chicken ramen can be prepared in advance, even a few days ahead. Once the ramen is ready, however, it is best to consume it immediately.
Add some pork loin to the broth to make your chicken ramen even more flavorful!
If you already have prepared chicken broth, just add grated ginger and lemongrass while reheating it, then you can follow the instructions with ease. If you prepare it like us, do not worry about the boiled chicken, it certainly should not be discarded, on the contrary! You can enjoy it shredded and accompanied with seasonal vegetables, or we suggest making meatballs or even our Chicken cream (where boiled carrots are also added)!

