name:
Pork Meatballs in Broth
ingredients:
Pork: 0.9lb(400 g)- ground
Stale bread: 1 ½cup(100 g)
Whole milk: 0.42cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)- to grate
Thyme: to taste- to be chopped
Rosemary: to taste- to be chopped
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Celery: 2ribs
Fresh scallion: 2
Carrots: 1
Fresh ginger: 5tbsp(30 g)
Water: 3cups(700 g)
Coarse salt: to taste
Ground black pepper: 8
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the pork meatballs in broth, first prepare the broth: clean the vegetables, then slice the scallions into thin rings and cut both the carrots and celery into half-inch chunks .
Peel and slice the ginger . Heat a drizzle of oil in a pot , then add the vegetables with the ginger and let them brown for a couple of minutes.
Pour in the water , add salt and the black peppercorns , then cook over low heat for about 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, soak the bread in room temperature milk and work on the meatballs: place the ground pork in a blender , then add the soaked bread .
Add the minced aromatic herbs and blend for a few seconds, then add the grated Grana Padano PDO and blend again to obtain a soft yet compact mixture .
With your hands, form balls about 1.2 inches in diameter : with these amounts, you will get about 30. Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan and place the meatballs inside . Cook with the lid on over medium-low heat for 10 minutes, then remove the lid and continue cooking for another 5 minutes until golden brown, shaking the pan. Salt and pepper to taste.
At this point, the broth will be ready, so strain it into a bowl . When the meatballs are cooked , plate them with the hot broth and garnish with chopped parsley !
The cooked meatballs can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days; alternatively, you can freeze them raw. The broth can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 days or can be frozen.
Add some chili to the sauté for a spicy touch, or flavor the broth with juniper berries.
If you're looking for ideas to use the broth vegetables, you can blend them with a ladle of leftover broth to make a simple vegetable puree, or you can add grated cheese and breadcrumbs to the mixture to create tasty meatballs or mini burgers!

