name:
Beetroot and Spicy Chicken Sandwich
ingredients:
Bread loaves: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (2 sandwiches)
Chicken breast: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Oregano: 1tsp
Smoked paprika: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1tsp
Black pepper: 1tsp
Precooked beets: 0.4cup(60 g)
Apple cider vinegar: 1spoonful
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.8tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: ½tsp
Emmentaler cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- sliced
Mixed salad: 1.1oz(30 g)
Dijon mustard: 2tsp- in grains
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the spicy chicken and beetroot sandwich, first clean the chicken breast of cartilage and little bones, then cut it into strips about a quarter of an inch thick . Transfer the chicken to a bowl and season with oil , salt, and oregano .
Add the paprika , pepper, and crushed garlic clove , then mix well , cover with plastic wrap and set aside temporarily.
Grate the pre-cooked beetroot using a coarse grater , transfer it to a bowl and season with salt , oil, and vinegar . Mix well and set aside.
Proceed to cook the chicken: heat a grill well, add the chicken strips and cook for about 6 minutes, turning them often . The chicken must be cooked very well, so if necessary, you can extend the cooking time. Meanwhile, cut the rolls in half lengthwise .
Season 2 slices with oil and 2 slices with 1.8 oz of Emmental each , then grill at 482°F for 4 minutes or as long as it takes to melt the cheese . When the chicken is cooked , you are ready to assemble your sandwiches.
Spread the slices of bread without cheese with whole-grain mustard . Fill the remaining slices of bread with seasoned beetroot and spicy chicken .
Add a handful of mixed salad and close the sandwiches, then cut them in half . Your beetroot and spicy chicken sandwiches are ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the beetroot and spicy chicken sandwich immediately.
Alternatively, you can use mayonnaise or ketchup instead of mustard, of course! Replace the salad with arugula for a bitter note or enrich the sandwich with fried onions.

