name:
Paccheri with radicchio and fontina fondue
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 12.8oz(360 g)
Fontina cheese: 2.7cups(300 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Radicchio: 2.1oz(60 g)- (already cleaned)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Oregano: to taste- dry
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 2 hours of soaking fontina in milk

instructions:
To prepare the paccheri with radicchio and fontina fondue, start with the fondue: remove the crust from the cheese and cut it into fairly small cubes , then transfer it to a saucepan and add the milk . Let it rest at room temperature for about 2 hours or until the cheese is soft and almost gelatinous .
After soaking time, place the saucepan on low heat: to ensure a good result, use a thermometer to check that the milk reaches a temperature between 149°F and 167°F . Stir constantly with a whisk to mix the ingredients evenly , then add the chopped rosemary and oregano .
Season with pepper and continue to stir over low heat: the fondue should cook for about 10-15 minutes in total, until all the cheese has melted and it has a thick consistency. Meanwhile, cut the radicchio into strips and bring a pot of water to a boil, then salt it. Pour the paccheri into the boiling water and cook for the time indicated on the package.
Meanwhile, heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the radicchio and let it wilt for about 5 minutes , then turn off the heat. When the fondue is ready, pour it still hot into the pan with the radicchio .
Mix well to combine the radicchio with the fondue , then drain the paccheri and add them to the pan . Stir, adjust the salt and pepper, and immediately serve your paccheri with radicchio and fontina fondue !
Paccheri with radicchio and fontina fondue can be stored in the refrigerator for one day, making sure to heat them in a pan before serving.
For an even richer fondue, you can add 3 egg yolks at the beginning of cooking!

