name:
Fiery chicken thighs
ingredients:
Chicken legs: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Red peppers: 7.1oz(200 g)- variety cornetto
Parsley: 1bunch
Lime: to taste
Greek yogurt: 1.6cups(400 g)
Lime: 1- juice and zest
Green Peperoncino: 4tsp- of Cayenne
Smoked paprika: 2tsp
Powdered turmeric: 2tsp
Fine salt: 3tsp
Black pepper: 1tsp
Thyme: to taste
Chives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the fiery chicken thighs, start with the marinade. In a bowl, pour the Greek yogurt (setting aside a few tablespoons) and then add the salt , black pepper, turmeric , and smoked paprika .
Add the cayenne pepper , grated zest of one lime , and its juice .
Finally, add the fresh thyme leaves , chopped chives , and oil. Mix well to combine the ingredients .
Set the marinade aside for a moment and turn your attention to the chicken. Score the skin making 4-5 cuts: this way the meat will absorb the flavors better and cook more evenly . Place the chicken in a baking dish, add the marinade and massage the meat well to help it absorb, especially in the creases . Once the chicken is evenly coated, cover the dish with plastic wrap and let it marinate for at least 30 minutes at room temperature.
In the meantime, wash and dry the bell pepper, remove the seeds and inner filaments, and cut it into slices about 1 cm (0.39 inches) thick . Heat a grill and cook the slices for about 6-7 minutes over high heat . Once the slices are well-charred , set them aside and return to the chicken.
Remove the thighs from the marinade (which you will use later) and place them on a very hot grill . Sear them over high heat for a few moments on each side, using tongs to turn them .
At this point, transfer the chicken thighs to a baking tray and brush them with the marinade mixture . Once evenly coated , bake in a static oven at 428°F (220°C) for 30-35 minutes . The time may vary depending on your oven's power.
Transfer the chicken thighs to a serving plate along with the bell pepper slices. Garnish with the yogurt you set aside and finally garnish with chopped parsley . Serve your fiery chicken thighs accompanied by lime wedges!
You can store your fiery chicken thighs in the refrigerator for no more than one day; if you prefer, you can also freeze them. The marinade alone can be prepared up to one day in advance. The meat, however, can be marinated for up to 8-12 hours.
Want to add a touch of crunchiness to your fiery chicken thighs? Toast some nuts in a pan, like cashews, almond slices, or even pistachios! A good substitute for the spices is definitely curry, which will gather some of those present. To add an extra hint of freshness, instead of the usual parsley, substitute with fresh cilantro!

