name:
Tagliatelle with mushroom and dried fruit ragout
ingredients:
Egg Tagliatelle pasta: 9oz(250 g)
Porcini mushrooms: 0.7oz(20 g)- dried
Tomato purée: 1cup(250 g)
Walnut kernels: 1.5oz(40 g)
Pecans: ⅓cup(40 g)
Almonds: 0.3cup(40 g)
Hazelnuts: 0.3cup(40 g)
Celery: - half stalk
Carrots: ½
Red onions: ½
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Honey mushrooms: 1cup(100 g)
Garlic: 1- clove

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the tagliatelle with mushroom and dried fruit ragout, start by soaking the porcini mushrooms. Pour them into a bowl filled with fresh water . In the meantime, clean the honey mushrooms: remove the earthy part and then rinse them. Finally, blanch them for about 15 minutes .
Meanwhile, clean and finely chop the onion, celery, and carrot . In a pan, heat a good splash of oil and then throw in the chopped vegetables. Let them soften over low heat for about ten minutes . Meanwhile, drain the porcini mushrooms and roughly chop them .
By this point, the sauté should be softened, add the porcini mushrooms and adjust with salt , then add the tomato puree , rinse the jug by adding a splash of water to the sauce, and cover, letting it cook for 15 minutes with the lid on .
In the meantime, put a pot on the stove to cook the pasta and prepare the rest: chop the dried fruit . In a pan, pour a bit of oil and season with garlic and rosemary ,
then drain the honey mushrooms, which should be cooked by now . Quickly flavor them and remove the garlic and rosemary . The sauce should also be ready by now, add 3/4 of the dried fruit mix .
and if necessary, thin with a splash of pasta cooking water . Then drain the tagliatelle and mix . Plate by pouring the pasta into dishes and garnish with the honey mushrooms .
Add the dried fruit mix , a few rosemary needles , and your tagliatelle with mushroom and dried fruit ragout are ready, enjoy your meal .
It is recommended to consume the tagliatelle with mushroom and dried fruit ragout immediately.
Want a spicy touch? Add a chili pepper to your tagliatelle with mushroom and dried fruit ragout! You can also vary the mushrooms based on seasonal availability and the varieties you prefer.
Also, try this variant: Pici with Mushroom and Walnut Bolognese !

