name:
Filled coconut cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Yogurt: ¾cup(170 g)- coconut flavored
Shredded coconut: 1 ½cup(135 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 8.8oz(250 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(125 g)
Eggs: 1
Egg whites: 1
Lemon juice: ½tbsp(8 g)
White wine vinegar: 1tsp
Baking soda: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Cream cheese: 1 ½cup(375 g)
Powdered sugar: 1.67cups(200 g)
Shredded coconut: 0.67cup(50 g)
Dehydrated coconut: 2cups(50 g)- in flakes

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + resting time in the fridge (2-3 h)

instructions:
To prepare the filled coconut cake, first pour the coconut yogurt, milk , vegetable oil , and egg into a bowl.
Add the egg white , lemon juice , and white wine vinegar .
Mix until you obtain a homogeneous mixture . In another bowl, sift the flour .
Sift the baking soda as well, then add the sugar and shredded coconut .
Mix well , then incorporate the dry ingredients into the liquid ones . Blend everything with a hand whisk until you get a smooth and homogeneous batter .
Butter two 8-inch springform pans, place a circle of parchment paper on the bottom, then flour the edges. Divide the batter equally between the pans . Place both pans on the lower rack of the oven and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 35 minutes . During the last few minutes, check the cooking by doing the toothpick test. This recipe does not include soaking, so it's important that the cakes don't overbake to maintain a fairly moist batter. Once baked, remove from the oven and let cool completely. Meanwhile, prepare the frosting: in a stand mixer, put the mascarpone and cream cheese, then add the fresh cream .
Add the powdered sugar and whip with the whisk until you get a fairly firm cream . You can follow the same procedure using a bowl and an electric mixer. Transfer the cream to a piping bag with a smooth nozzle of 10-12 mm diameter. Once the cakes have cooled, remove them from the pans and, if necessary, cut off the dome to lay it without problems on a serving plate. Add a layer of cream about 1.5-2 cm thick on the surface .
Level the cream , then place the second cake on top with the dome facing down . Spread the frosting on the sides creating vertical stripes .
Add cream on the surface as well , then with a spatula spread it evenly to cover the entire cake . At this point, press the shredded coconut onto the sides of the cake .
Pipe cream puffs along the edge of the surface using a fluted nozzle . Finally, decorate the center with dehydrated coconut flakes . Let the cake rest in the refrigerator for at least 2-3 hours before serving. Your filled coconut cake is ready to be enjoyed !
The filled coconut cake can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container or well-covered with plastic wrap, for 2-3 days.
You can replace cow's milk with a coconut-based plant drink to further enhance the flavor.
Instead of mascarpone, you can use only cream cheese or vice versa.
For this cake, shredded coconut is used: it is grated coconut in small flakes, not to be confused with coconut flour, as the two ingredients are not interchangeable.

