name:
Spelt gnocchi with Grana Padano cream
ingredients:
Whole grain farro flour: 3 ½cups(400 g)
Water: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Fine salt: ¾tsp(4 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 10.5oz(300 g)- (aged over 20 months) for grating
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(225 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste- for garnish

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare the spelt gnocchi with Grana Padano cream, start with the dough. In a pot, pour the water, add the salt , and bring to a boil. When it is boiling, pour the flour all at once and immediately stir with a wooden spoon . Keep stirring for 3 - 4 minutes until the dough is dry enough and a film forms all around the sides and on the bottom of the pot .
Transfer the mixture to a work surface and let it cool just enough so that you don't burn yourself. In fact, the dough needs to be worked while still warm. Tear off a portion of the dough and form ropes with your fingers . Then cut into pieces of about an inch using a scraper or a smooth blade .
Dust the gnocchi board with a little whole wheat flour and roll the pieces to get the ridged gnocchi . As you make them, place them on a cloth laid on a tray . Continue in this way until the dough is finished, and set them aside for now .
Focus on preparing the Grana Padano DOP cream: pour the grated cheese into a saucepan along with the cream, which is being heated gently . Stir continuously until the cheese has melted .
While preparing the cream, you can also cook the gnocchi. Drop them into a pot of boiling salted water . As soon as they float, drain them and drop them into the dressing .
Mix gently to flavor, then season with a grind of pepper and serve your spelt gnocchi with Grana Padano cream garnished with some thyme leaves .
Once the spelt gnocchi with Grana Padano cream are ready, it is recommended to consume them immediately, and any form of preservation, including the cream, is discouraged. However, what you can do is freeze the gnocchi once formed: keep them on a small tray and freeze them for about half an hour before putting them in a bag and placing them back in the freezer.
Add some pan-toasted nuts to your spelt gnocchi with Grana Padano cream, such as chopped walnuts or hazelnuts.

