name:
Sedanini baked casserole
ingredients:
Sedanini Rigati pasta: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Broccoli: 3.3cups(300 g)- florets
Champignon mushrooms: 3cups(200 g)
Leeks: 1
Prosciutto cotto: 6.4oz(180 g)- (in one piece)
Pecorino cheese: 2.3oz(65 g)- grated
Caciocavallo cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- grated
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ¾cup(200 g)
White wine: 0.7cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the baked sedanini casserole, start with the How to Clean Porcini Mushrooms . After removing the earthy base , clean the surface with a damp cloth. Slice them and set them aside. Then clean the leek by removing the two outer leaves and trimming it, then cut it into thin rings .
With a knife, slice the cooked ham into half-inch thick slices . From these, cut small cubes . Finally, coarsely chop the broccoli florets and proceed to cooking.
In a casserole suitable for the oven, heat a drizzle of oil and add the leek and ham . Let them sauté for a few moments before adding the broccoli and mushrooms .
Once the base is well browned, season with salt without overdoing it, deglaze with white wine and let the alcohol evaporate before lowering the heat and continue cooking for another 10 minutes. In the meantime, add the pasta to boiling salted water , and as soon as it is al dente, drain it directly into the pan .
Add the ricotta , a ladle of pasta cooking water, and stir . After adjusting the consistency, you can turn off the stove and add the grated caciocavallo cheese
and then the grated pecorino cheese . Add a drizzle of oil and do not stir . Transfer the pot to a preheated static oven at 400°F and let it brown for about 25 minutes. At the end of cooking, grate some black pepper and serve your baked sedanini casserole still very hot .
Once ready, you can store the baked sedanini casserole in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
It's possible to freeze the sedanini, let them thaw, and heat them before serving!
An extra creamy effect for your baked sedanini casserole? No doubt, a delicious portion of runny béchamel sauce. Additionally, instead of the cheeses we suggested, you can use your preferred ones!

