name:
Noto Pie
ingredients:
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 3 ⅛cups(500 g)
Water: 1cup(250 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¼tsp(7 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
Rigatoni: 8.8oz(250 g)
Pork: 8oz(225 g)- ground
White wine: 0.7oz(20 g)
White onions: 0.7oz(20 g)
Cauliflower: 2 ½cups(250 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.8cup(200 g)
Tomato paste: 8tbsp(120 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 4.25oz(120 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)- to grate
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Water: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + 3 hours of leavening

instructions:
In a large bowl, pour the semolina, crumble in the fresh yeast and add the water slowly while kneading with one hand . Continue to work the dough and add the salt .
Then pour in the oil and finally transfer the mixture to the work surface. Knead for a few minutes until the dough becomes compact and soft . Transfer it to a bowl , cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for about 3 hours at a maximum temperature of 79-82°F, away from drafts.
Meanwhile, cook the cauliflower in plenty of unsalted water and let it cook until tender, which will take about 20 minutes, depending on its size. In the meantime, prepare the ragù: clean and chop the onion and place it in a pan with a little warmed oil .
Sauté for a few minutes, stirring occasionally , then add the ground meat and break it up with a wooden spoon as it browns. Deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate .
Now add the tomato paste . Mix everything together, add the bay leaf and dilute with water .
Cover with a lid and cook gently for at least an hour, adjusting salt at the end . Once the ragù is ready proceed by mashing the cauliflower with a fork .
Cook the pasta , ensuring it is drained al dente. Dress the pasta with the ragù and the mashed cauliflower .
Season with grated caciocavallo cheese , grated pecorino cheese , and ricotta .
Mix everything well and set aside. Take the dough and set aside a smaller ball to make the cover . Roll out the rest of the dough with a rolling pin .
It should reach a thickness of about 0.6 inches . Take a flared mold measuring 6.3 inches at the bottom, 8.7 inches at the top, with a height of 4.7 inches. Brush with oil up to a little more than half of its depth . Line the inside with the dough sheet , making sure it adheres well to the bottom and sides.
Fill with the pasta , then roll out the remaining dough to place it on top as a cover . Seal the edges well by pinching them to create a cord .
Pierce the surface with a fork and then brush the surface of the pie with oil . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 35 minutes. Once done, remove from the oven , let it cool slightly, and unmold your Noto pie .
Store the Noto pie in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Some variations of the traditional recipe use broccoli instead of cauliflower.

