name:
Mini gateau di lentils
ingredients:
Potatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Lentils: ½cup(100 g)
Spinach: 13.3cups(400 g)
Eggs: 1
Mozzarella cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Breadcrumbs: 0.167cup(40 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the mini lentil gateau, first wash and drain the spinach . In a large pan, heat the oil and fry a whole clove of garlic . Add the damp spinach , salt, and cook for about 5 minutes, moving them with a wooden spoon.
Finally, remove from heat, discard the garlic , and drain with a sieve . Peel the potatoes and cut them into cubes .
Place the potatoes in a pot with boiling water . Rinse the lentils, drain them, and add them to the pot with the potatoes . Salt and cook for about 20 minutes with the lid on .
Finally, drain the vegetables and place them in a bowl . Mash with a fork until the potatoes and lentils are reduced to a creamy puree . Add 2 tablespoons of butter and mix.
Also, add the grated cheese , mix again , and then incorporate the egg .
Lightly pepper and mix well . Cut the mozzarella into cubes and place them in a sieve to drain excess liquid .
Butter 8 disposable aluminum molds with 2 teaspoons of melted butter using a kitchen brush and sprinkle with breadcrumbs . Fill each mold halfway with the potato and lentil puree .
Add a little cooked spinach and continue with 4 or 5 mozzarella cubes . Finally, cover with the lentil and potato mixture, pressing with the back of the spoon .
Sprinkle with plenty of breadcrumbs . Place a small piece of butter on top and bake on the middle rack of the preheated oven at 355°F in static mode for about 30 minutes. Remove the well-golden cakes from the oven , unmold, and serve them hot.
You can store the mini lentil gateau in the fridge for a couple of days covered with plastic wrap, then reheat as needed. It's not recommended to prepare it too many hours in advance before cooking as the mixture may darken. Freezing is not recommended.
We recommend draining both the cooked spinach and mozzarella well to avoid overly moistening the filling.

