name:
Savory shortcrust pinwheels
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Rosemary: 1tsp- minced
Eggs: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.9cup(200 g)
Basil: 20leaves
Garlic: ½clove
Coarse salt: ½tsp
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.5oz(15 g)
Pecorino cheese: 0.25oz(5 g)
Pine nuts: 1tsp(5 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + 1 hour of rest for the shortcrust and 30 minutes of rest for the pinwheels

instructions:
To make the savory shortcrust pinwheels, start with the shortcrust pastry: pour the all-purpose flour into a bowl . Add the grated Grana Padano, the cold butter in cubes , the rosemary, and a pinch of salt . Quickly knead with your hands until you get a sandy mixture.
At this point, add the egg and knead; the savory shortcrust pastry will quickly gain consistency like the sweet one, so work it as little as possible . Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 1 hour.
Meanwhile, prepare the pesto: detach the basil leaves from the stems and rinse quickly under running water , then dry them well by patting with a clean cloth. Peel the garlic. Pour the basil leaves, peeled garlic, coarse salt , and pine nuts into a bowl.
Season with grated Grana Padano and grated pecorino , complete with oil , and blend with an immersion blender .
Once a homogeneous mixture is obtained, set aside . After the resting time, roll out the savory shortcrust pastry with a rolling pin to form a rectangle of 12x16 inches .
In a separate bowl, pour the ricotta and pesto , mash with a fork to combine the ingredients . Spread the filling on the shortcrust pastry rectangle .
Roll the pastry from the longer side to obtain a cylinder . Cut 12 pinwheels about half an inch wide .
Place the pinwheels on a baking tray lined with parchment paper . Let them rest in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes, covered with plastic wrap to prevent absorbing odors from other foods. Bake in a preheated ventilated oven at 356°F for 20 minutes until golden on the surface. Remove from the oven and let the pinwheels cool before serving .
The savory shortcrust pinwheels can be stored for 2 or 3 days even outside the fridge in an airtight container. They can be frozen before baking when the pinwheels are already cut and then baked directly without having to defrost them first at 356°F for 25 minutes ventilated.
Use cold butter just taken from the fridge and work the shortcrust pastry as little as possible. You can flavor the savory shortcrust pastry with oregano instead of rosemary.

