name:
Buckwheat ravioli with pears and Taleggio
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Buckwheat flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Eggs: 4.2oz(120 g)- (2 medium)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Taleggio cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Abate Fetel pears: ⅔cup(150 g)- (1 medium)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Abate Fetel pears: 5.3oz(150 g)- (1 medium)
Peeled almonds: ¼cup(40 g)
Walnut kernels: 0.3cup(40 g)
Butter: 3oz(80 g)
Sage: 2leaves

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the buckwheat ravioli with pears and Taleggio, start by preparing the ravioli filling: peel a pear, remove the core and cut it first into strips then into very small cubes . Place the pear cubes in a non-stick pan and cook them for 5 minutes, stirring often.
They should be very soft . In a bowl, pour the ricotta; add the Grana Padano and mix . Cut the Taleggio into pieces .
Place it in a mixer and blend it coarsely . Add the Taleggio to the ricotta .
Season the mixture with black pepper and fine salt, then mix well to combine the ingredients. Finally, add the pears and mix. Put the filling in a piping bag and store it in the refrigerator until ready to use .
Move on to preparing the ravioli: pour the two flours in a mound on a work surface ; add the eggs , fine salt, extra virgin olive oil , and lightly beat the eggs with a fork.
Knead with your hands until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough . Proceed to form the ravioli: flour the work surface and roll out the dough with a rolling pin , until you obtain a very thin sheet.
Cut strips of dough about 3 inches wide . Take the ravioli filling from the refrigerator; cut the tip of the piping bag and, on one sheet, place small heaps of filling, spaced apart . Cover with a strip of dough .
Press lightly around the filling to seal the two sheets and release excess air to prevent the ravioli from opening during cooking . With a round fluted cutter with a diameter of 2.5 inches, cut out the ravioli . Continue in the same way until all ingredients are used up . With these quantities, you will obtain about 24 ravioli.
Proceed to prepare the caramelized pears for the dressing: peel and dice the pear as done before; place them in a pan, add the pepper and 1 tbsp of butter . Cook, over medium heat, until the pear cubes are caramelized, stirring often. It will take about 4 minutes . Meanwhile, place a pot of salted water on the stove and when it reaches a boil, cook the ravioli for about 5 minutes .
Meanwhile, place 3-4 sage leaves and the remaining 5 tbsps of butter in a non-stick pan . Melt the butter completely, without boiling it . Chop the nuts coarsely .
Drain the ravioli and dress them with the butter and sage , the chopped nuts, and the caramelized pear cubes . Serve the buckwheat ravioli with pears and Taleggio immediately .
Consume the buckwheat ravioli immediately. You can freeze the ravioli before cooking, making sure they are well separated from each other.
You can substitute the Taleggio with spicy Gorgonzola if you prefer stronger flavors.

