name:
Buckwheat Tart
ingredients:
Buckwheat flour: 2cups(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Butter: 9oz(250 g)- cold
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Eggs: 2.1oz(60 g)- (1 medium)
Egg yolks: 1.9oz(54 g)- (about 3)
Baking powder: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Pomegranite jam: 1 ¼cup(300 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + 3 h of dough resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
To make the buckwheat tart, first prepare the shortcrust pastry: place the all-purpose flour and buckwheat flour in a mound on a work surface, add the cold butter cubes and quickly knead with your hands to obtain a crumbly mixture .
Add the sugar , the egg yolks, the whole egg , and the baking powder .
Break the eggs with a fork to incorporate them into the flour , then knead with your hands to form a smooth and homogeneous dough . Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 3 hours.
After the resting time, roll out ¾ of the dough between 2 sheets of parchment paper to a thickness of 1/6 inch . Place the inverted pan on the dough and cut out the contour to obtain a disk of the right size .
Line the base and edges with the dough and pour the pomegranate jam inside , leveling it evenly . Now roll out the remaining dough to a thickness of 1/8 inch .
Cut part of the dough into strips 3/8 inch wide , then use a leaf-shaped cookie cutter to cut shapes from the remaining dough .
Lay the dough strips on top of the jam , then decorate both the edges and the center with the leaves . Bake in a preheated fan oven at 355°F for 35 minutes, moving the tart to the lower shelf during the last 5 minutes. Once baked, remove your buckwheat tart from the oven and let it cool on a rack before enjoying it !
The buckwheat tart can be stored at room temperature for up to 3 days. You can prepare the dough the day before and store it in the refrigerator wrapped in plastic wrap, or you can freeze it.
Fill the buckwheat tart with your favorite jam and create different decorations each time!

