name:
Breadsticks with Sourdough
ingredients:
Sourdough starter: 6oz(170 g)- refreshed
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(205 g)
Water: ½cup(125 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Dried onions: 1.8oz(50 g)
Smoked pancetta: 1oz(30 g)
Semolina: 1oz(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: 1 ½tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 3 hours of rising

instructions:
Place the smoked bacon cubes in a pan and brown them for about 5 minutes, stirring often. Let them cool completely . Break the refreshed sourdough into a bowl, pour in 50 g of lukewarm water taken from the total amount .
Stir to dissolve it . Pour the flour into the mixing bowl and add the dissolved sourdough . Attach the dough hook and set to medium speed. Gradually add the remaining water in a thin stream, little by little, continuing to knead.
Knead for 10 minutes, then stop the mixer and add the fine salt , dried onion, and crispy bacon . Continue kneading until the dough is well combined .
Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surface; flatten the dough with your hands and shape into a rectangle about 0.8 inches thick. Brush with 20 g of extra virgin olive oil , salt, and sprinkle with durum wheat semolina flour .
Let the dough rise for 2 hours at room temperature (no more than 79°F and away from drafts), covered with plastic wrap . After the rising time, use a smooth-bladed wheel to cut strips of dough from the narrow side, about 0.6 inches wide ; gently stretch them with your hands to reach the desired length, about 12 inches .
Arrange the breadsticks on a baking tray lined with parchment paper, spacing them slightly apart. Mix 20 g of extra virgin olive oil with 5 g of fine salt. Brush the breadsticks with this mixture . Let the dough rise for 1 hour. Bake in a preheated static oven at 374°F for about 20 minutes. Remove the sourdough breadsticks from the oven and let them cool completely on a rack before serving .
Breadsticks stay crunchy and fragrant for about 1 week if stored in a tin box. Freezing is not recommended.
An alternative to onions and bacon: you can use olives or sun-dried tomatoes.

