name:
Bigoli with scallop ragù
ingredients:
Bigoli pasta: 0.9lb(400 g)- fresh
Scallops: 0.66lb(300 g)- shelled
Tomato purée: 1cup(250 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 0.67cup(100 g)
Red spring onions: 1.8oz(50 g)- from Tropea
Garlic: 1- clove
White wine: 2.5oz(70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Basil: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Green Peperoncino: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the bigoli with scallop ragù, start with the scallops. After cleaning them, rinse them and drain them well before cutting them into 4 parts . Set them aside for a moment and then cut the cherry tomatoes, also into 4 parts .
Clean and thinly slice the spring onions and finally roughly chop the basil . Move to the stove and heat some oil in a pan along with a clove of garlic. Then add the scallops and let them sizzle for a moment .
Deglaze with white wine , let the alcohol evaporate, and add the chopped cherry tomatoes , the sliced shallot ,
and the basil leaves . Quickly sauté everything, then remove the garlic before adding the tomato puree ,
a little water and season with salt, pepper, and chili powder . Stir and let it simmer gently for about ten minutes; add more water if needed .
While the sauce is cooking , drop the bigoli into a pot with plenty of boiling salted water . Cook according to the package instructions and drain directly into the sauce when ready .
Quickly toss the pasta with the sauce, turn off the heat, and add the roughly chopped parsley , mix, and plate . Here are your bigoli with scallop ragù ready, enjoy your meal .
It's recommended to consume the bigoli with scallop ragù immediately, but alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
Make the bigoli with scallop ragù even more flavorful by adding shrimp to the sauce. If you don't have chili powder, whole chili peppers, either fresh or dried, will do; in the first case, just slice them; in the second, crumble them. Finally, if you can't find red spring onions, red Tropea onions will work just fine instead.

