name:
Zucchini rolls with ricotta and sun-dried tomatoes
ingredients:
Zucchini: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Mixed seeds: 2tbsp(30 g)
Powdered turmeric: ½tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 3.5oz(100 g)
Arugula: 6cups(120 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 10 min. of resting for the grated zucchini

instructions:
To prepare the zucchini rolls with ricotta and sun-dried tomatoes, first wash and trim the zucchini, then grate them into a bowl . Salt , mix and let them rest for 10 minutes, covered with plastic wrap. After this time, the zucchini will have released some of their liquid, which will help achieve the right dough consistency. Then add the flour .
Add the turmeric and mix well , then add the seeds .
Mix everything to form a homogeneous mixture. Pour the mixture onto a slightly oiled parchment paper , then oil the surface as well .
Cover with another sheet of parchment paper and roll out to a thickness of 0.2 inches . Gently remove the top layer of parchment paper and transfer the obtained dough with the underlying parchment paper onto a baking tray . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C) for 17 minutes. After baking, remove from the oven and let cool.
Meanwhile, cut the sun-dried tomatoes into pieces . Once the dough has cooled, spread the ricotta over the entire surface , then add the sun-dried tomatoes .
Lastly, distribute the previously washed and dried arugula . Season with a pinch of salt and a drizzle of oil . Gently roll up the dough from the long side using the parchment paper .
Once you have a compact roll , cut it into slices about 1.2-1.6 inches thick . Your zucchini rolls with ricotta and sun-dried tomatoes are ready to be served !
The zucchini rolls with ricotta and sun-dried tomatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can vary the filling to your liking, using, for example, olives, anchovies, or another type of fresh spreadable cheese.

