name:
Pears and Chocolate with Salted Caramel
ingredients:
Pears: 2- mature
Butter: - a knob
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Salted butter: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)
Vanilla bean: to taste
Mascarpone cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Dark chocolate: 7.1oz(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(50 g)
Corn: 0.67cup(90 g)- to make popcorn
Brown sugar: ⅓cup(80 g)
Butter: 1.8oz(50 g)
Honey: 3 ⅓tbsp(50 g)
Baking soda: - a pinch
Fine salt: to taste
Dried raspberries: to taste
Edible flowers: to taste
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pears and chocolate with salted caramel, start with the accompanying mock ice cream: chop the chocolate . Then heat the cream in a saucepan until it almost reaches boiling point . As soon as it's very hot, pour the cream over the chocolate .
Stir with a spatula to melt and blend it properly . Add the mixture to the mascarpone and mix again . Then transfer everything to a container, cover with plastic wrap, and let it firm up in the refrigerator for at least an hour .
Meanwhile, take care of the popcorn. To make them, just pour the corn kernels into a saucepan , cover with the lid and raise the temperature to maximum , this way the corn will pop. Transfer the popcorn to a bowl, adjust the salt to your liking and set aside .
Then move on to the caramel to coat them. So, pour the sugar, butter, and honey into a steel saucepan , as soon as bubbles start to form, add the baking soda . Continue stirring constantly as the mixture starts to foam. A few moments later, turn off the heat and pour over the popcorn .
Mix thoroughly and transfer onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , space them well, and bake at 230°F for about 15 minutes. After baking, let them cool outside the oven .
Move on to the pears. After washing and drying them, cut them in half, remove the stem and core . In a pan, melt a small knob of salted butter and then place the pears inside . Cover with the lid and let them braise for 5 minutes .
Meanwhile, take care of the caramel. In a steel pan, pour water and sugar , without stirring, bring to a boil until it turns amber . Meanwhile, you can briefly mix the butter with the seeds of a vanilla pod .
At this point, the caramel should have the desired color, so turn off the heat and move away from the stove before adding the warm cream . Stir immediately and be very careful not to splash it on your hands because it is highly burning. As soon as it has been incorporated, also add the butter mixed with the seeds and mix to obtain a viscous sauce .
You can proceed with plating. Retrieve the mock ice cream from the refrigerator and scoop out a ball with an ice cream scoop . On the serving plate, place a half-braised pear , next to the ice cream ball ,
and as a garnish, the caramel drizzled from a spoon . Finish by adding the popcorn and some dehydrated raspberries, edible flowers, and a pinch of flaky salt. Your pears and chocolate with salted caramel are ready !
We recommend consuming your portion of pears and chocolate with salted caramel immediately because the fruit may lose texture and release liquids. However, you can make the ice cream in advance and keep it in the refrigerator for up to a couple of days. The popcorn, on the other hand, should not be made too early as they may lose their crunch.
This version of pears and chocolate with salted caramel convinced us right from the start, so making this recipe even more special will be really difficult.
Try adding toasted nuts, like hazelnuts or almonds, in a pan or oven, or try adding a pinch of chili powder to the ice cream mixture... it will be truly irresistible!

