name:
Orange Cream Tart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Eggs: 2.3oz(65 g)- (1 medium egg)
Baking powder: 1tsp(5 g)
Sugar: 3 ½tbsp(40 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- cold
Egg yolks: 3
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(50 g)
Cornstarch: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(60 g)
Orange juice: ⅓cup(80 g)
Orange peel: 1
Oranges: 1
Powdered sugar: to taste
Sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note +1 hour and a half of preparation resting time

instructions:
To prepare the orange cream tart, start by making the crust: in a bowl, pour the flour, the baking powder , and the sugar , then add the cold butter in pieces and proceed with the hand-sanding method, pinching the dough with your fingers to obtain crumbs.
Add the egg and gather all the ingredients, then transfer to the work surface and knead the dough until you get a homogeneous dough ball. Cover with plastic wrap and transfer to the fridge for about an hour.
Meanwhile, prepare the cream by heating the milk and cream in a saucepan until it almost boils . In a bowl, whisk together the egg yolks, sugar , and orange zest .
Also, add the cornstarch and orange juice . Keep whisking and combine the mixture with the hot milk and cream .
Cook the cream, stirring with a whisk over low heat . When it starts to thicken, remove it from the heat and continue stirring vigorously until it is smooth and homogeneous. Transfer the cream to a bowl , cover it with plastic wrap in contact, and let it cool in the fridge for at least 40 minutes .
After the two resting times, take the cream and the crust from the fridge, roll out the crust to a thickness of about a quarter-inch and then lay it in an 18 cm diameter tart pan with a removable bottom, previously buttered, making sure to remove the excess dough by pressing with the rolling pin itself . Prick the bottom with a fork .
Fill it with the cold cream that you have softened by briefly working it with a hand whisk if necessary . Slice the orange into about one-eighth-inch slices and cut them into quarters. Place the orange slices on the tart's surface for decoration .
Sprinkle the surface of the tart with a teaspoon of granulated sugar and bake in a preheated oven at 355°F for about 30 minutes. Once baked, remove the orange cream tart from the oven , let it cool slightly, then remove it from the pan and decorate with powdered sugar .
The soft orange tart can be stored in the fridge for 3 days. You can freeze the cream and shortcrust pastry separately.
Instead of cream, you can use 1/4 cup of milk, thereby increasing the amount already indicated in the recipe.
If you like an alcoholic note, you can spice up the cream with Grand Marnier.

