name:
Risotto with colorful cauliflowers, stracciatella, and guanciale
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Cauliflower: 0.9lb(400 g)- (yellow and purple)
Stracciatella cheese: ¼cup(60 g)
Jowls: 1.75oz(50 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2spoonfuls- to grate
Rosemary: 2- sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cauliflower: to taste- (the discard)
Carrots: 1
Onions: 1
Coarse salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the risotto with colorful cauliflowers, stracciatella, and guanciale, start by removing the rind from the guanciale, then slice it thinly and place the slices on a baking sheet with parchment paper , then bake in a preheated oven at 356°F in fan mode, for about 8 minutes .
When it's ready, finely chop the guanciale with a knife to obtain the crumbs . Move on to the cauliflowers. Immediately remove the stalks and plunge them into a pot with plenty of water, the carrot, the onion, and coarse salt, and let them simmer for about half an hour, thus obtaining the vegetable broth that you will need for cooking the rice. Meanwhile, while the broth is cooking, clean the two cauliflowers by obtaining the florets .
Rinse them under a stream of cold water and proceed with cooking. In a saucepan, melt 2 tablespoons of butter and add a sprig of rosemary for flavor. Then, in the hot base, pour in the florets of the purple and yellow cauliflower . Cook for about ten minutes, stirring gently from time to time and using a few ladles of broth to help .
Don't forget to adjust salt and pepper and remove the sprig of rosemary at the end of cooking . Without discarding the cooking base, transfer the cooked florets to a container and set them aside .
In the same saucepan, pour in the rice and let it toast for a few minutes, stirring continuously. When it's ready, moisten it with the hot broth and cook by stirring from time to time; adjust salt and pepper to taste. A couple of minutes before the end of cooking, add the florets
and finish by stirring. Then turn off the heat and add the grated cheese and the remaining butter . Mix well and proceed with plating .
Finally, garnish with the guanciale crumbs , shreds of stracciatella, and a few fresh rosemary needles , and here is your risotto with cauliflowers, stracciatella, and guanciale crumbs ready .
Once the risotto with cauliflowers, stracciatella, and guanciale powder is ready, it is advisable to enjoy it immediately. Alternatively, you can store it in the fridge for a day, but the texture will suffer. The guanciale crumbs can be prepared several hours in advance.
Add some toasted nuts in a pan, such as coarsely chopped hazelnuts, to make your risotto with cauliflowers, stracciatella, and guanciale powder special.

