name:
Orecchiette with sardines and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Orecchiette pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Sardines: 14.1oz(400 g)- fresh (to be cleaned)
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
Black olives: 2.8oz(80 g)
Salted capers: 1.8oz(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: 1.4oz(40 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 2- small
Lemon peel: 1
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the orecchiette with sardines and cherry tomatoes, start with the How to Clean Anchovies : after rinsing the sardines, remove the head and split them in half with a knife, starting from the belly . Open like a book to detach the central bone and make sure to remove the side fins, on the back and the belly. Roughly chop the sardines and set aside .
Manually pit the olives , then quickly rinse the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half . Move to the stove and heat a drizzle of oil in a saucepan along with the unpeeled garlic clove .
Add the cleaned and sliced chili peppers . Shortly after, add the sardines and sauté for a few minutes, then deglaze with white wine .
Add the cherry tomatoes only when the alcohol has evaporated , then also add the capers rinsed under water and the pitted olives .
Remove the garlic clove, scent with basil and adjust the salt, cooking everything for about ten minutes. Then turn off the heat. Meanwhile, boil the pasta in salted boiling water and flavor the sauce with grated lemon zest .
Drain the orecchiette and transfer them directly to the pan , then toss with a drizzle of raw oil . Plate and garnish with basil as desired: your orecchiette with sardines and cherry tomatoes are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the orecchiette with sardines and cherry tomatoes immediately.
Do you want to add a creative touch to your orecchiette with sardines and cherry tomatoes? Try adding thinly sliced sweet peppers to the sauce, or soaked raisins for a touch of sweetness. For a citrus note, you can deglaze everything with orange juice!

