name:
Burek with spinach and ricotta
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Water: 1cup(260 g)- warm
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
White wine vinegar: 2tsp(10 g)
Spinach: 4.4cups(700 g)
Fresh scallion: 5.6oz(160 g)- to clean
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 2
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1.3cups(300 g)
Butter: 1 ¼cup(270 g)- melted
Cornstarch: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 1 h 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes of resting time for the phyllo dough

instructions:
To prepare the burek, start with the phyllo dough: in a bowl, pour the flour, salt , vinegar , and oil .
Knead with your hands, gradually adding the water . Once all the ingredients are gathered, transfer the dough to a work surface and form a smooth dough ball. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature while you continue with the preparation.
Slice the spring onion , wash and chop the spinach as well . In a large pan, heat the oil and sauté the spring onion for a few moments.
Add the spinach last and let them wilt for 5 minutes with the lid on until they are soft. Then add salt and pepper.
Transfer the cooked spinach into a bowl and let them cool . Add the ricotta, eggs to the filling, and mix to combine .
Now take the phyllo dough and roll it out with your hands to form a log , divide it with a dough cutter into 14 equal pieces , and roll them into balls .
Keep the balls in a cloth to prevent them from drying out and work on them one at a time. Roll out the balls with a little cornstarch using a thin rolling pin , the pastry should be very thin, almost transparent .
Brush a 13-inch baking pan with melted butter and lay the first sheet of dough by rolling it onto the rolling pin and then unrolling it over the pan , letting the excess dough hang over the edges. Brush the sheet with melted butter as well .
Continue by laying out a total of 8 sheets , always greasing them with butter. Now fill with the filling, distributing it with a spoon .
Continue by laying out the remaining sheets, always brushing the surface with melted butter . Lay the last sheet and fold the edges to seal well .
Brush the surface again and make cuts with a knife to let the air out and prevent the pastry from puffing up during baking . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 50 minutes. When done, remove the burek from the oven and let it cool slightly before serving .
The burek can be stored in the fridge for 2-3 days, we recommend reheating it before serving. You can also freeze the uncooked burek and bake it directly from frozen, ensuring to extend the baking time.
You can use ready-made phyllo dough following the same procedure. It is not necessary to drain the spinach, it is correct that they remain a bit watery so the pastry will stay soft during cooking and will not dry out.

