name:
Noodles with chicken and shrimp
ingredients:
Noodles: 7.1oz(200 g)
Shrimps: 1.2lbs(550 g)- (to clean)
Chicken breast: 7.1oz(200 g)
Broccoletti: 3.5oz(100 g)
Green beans: ½cup(100 g)
Red peppers: 2.8oz(80 g)
Yellow peppers: ½cup(80 g)
Leeks: ½cup(40 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Sesame seeds: 1spoonful
Soy sauce: 3.3tbsp(50 g)
Vegetable oil: 1tbsp(20 g)
Water: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make noodles with chicken and shrimp, start by preparing all the ingredients: remove the heads of the shrimp , peel them and remove the intestines by gently pulling with the tip of a knife : you should get about 5 oz (150 g) of cleaned shrimp. Clean the chicken breast and cut it into strips .
Peel and slice the garlic , then thinly slice the chili pepper and the leek .
Cut the bell peppers in half and, after removing seeds and internal filaments, cut them into strips . Separate the broccoli florets and finally cut the green beans into equal parts . Bring a saucepan of salted water to boil, which will be used to cook the noodles.
Heat a wok well (alternatively you can use a non-stick pan), pour in half of the seed oil and add the chicken . Salt , pepper, and cook over medium-high heat for 5 minutes, then add the shrimp .
Pour in half of the soy sauce and stir-fry everything for 3 minutes, then remove the shrimp and chicken from the wok and set them aside, covered with plastic wrap .
Pour the remaining oil into the same wok and add the garlic and chili pepper. Also add the leek , then deglaze with water and scrape the bottom while stirring the vegetables with a ladle . At this point, add the bell peppers, broccoli, and green beans , add the remaining soy sauce, and cook for about 10 minutes, always over high heat.
In the meantime, boil the noodles in salted boiling water for about 5 minutes . When the vegetables are cooked, add the chicken and shrimp that you set aside and sprinkle with sesame seeds .
Finally, add the boiled noodles and stir-fry everything again for a moment . Your noodles with chicken and shrimp are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the noodles with chicken and shrimp immediately.
If desired, you can also use beef or veal instead of chicken and replace shrimp with prawns. As for the vegetables, you can choose those you prefer such as champignon mushrooms, carrots, zucchini, bean sprouts, etc.

