name:
Fekkas
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Eggs: 5.5oz(160 g)- (about 3)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Rice oil: 3oz(80 g)
Almonds: ¾cup(100 g)- unpeeled
Raisins: ⅓cup(50 g)
Sesame seeds: 2tbsp(30 g)
Anise seeds: 1tsp(5 g)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Orange blossom water: 2tsp
Instant coffee: 2tsp
Egg yolks: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 55 min
Makes: 80 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + resting times (30 min. for the dough in the refrigerator and at least 12 h at room temperature)

instructions:
To prepare the fekkas, first soak the almonds in cold water for 10 minutes . Meanwhile, toast the sesame seeds in a pan until they turn golden .
Beat the eggs in a large bowl, then add the sugar , anise seeds , and raisins .
Also add the toasted sesame seeds , soaked almonds , and rice oil .
Mix with a fork to combine the ingredients . Sift the baking powder with the flour in a separate bowl . Add the dry ingredients to the mixture one tablespoon at a time, stirring with the fork .
When you can no longer mix with the fork, turn the mixture onto the work surface and knead by hand until you get a soft dough , which you will shape into a loaf . Transfer the loaf to a tray, cover with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes .
Meanwhile, beat the egg yolk for the coating in a small bowl, then add the orange blossom water and instant coffee . Stir with a teaspoon and set aside .
After half an hour, remove the dough from the refrigerator, divide it into 4 equal parts , and form loaves about 9.5-10 inches long. Transfer them to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and brush them with the egg yolk and coffee mixture .
Use the prongs of a fork to create lines or decorative patterns on the surface , then bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 30 minutes. Once baked, remove the loaves from the oven and cover them with a damp cloth . Let them rest at room temperature overnight or for at least 12 hours.
After this time, cut the loaves into slices about 0.4 inches thick using a smooth and sharp knife . Arrange the resulting cookies on a baking sheet with parchment paper and bake again in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 20 minutes. When beautifully golden, remove the fekkas from the oven and let them cool on a rack before enjoying them !
Fekkas can be stored in a tin box for up to 30 days, provided they do not come into contact with moisture. If desired, you can freeze the unbrushed dough.
Soaking the almonds and resting with the damp cloth are important to prevent the cookies from crumbling when you cut them: we recommend not skipping these steps.
There are other variations of this recipe that use pistachios, peanuts, or hazelnuts instead of almonds: the procedure remains the same. If desired, you can omit the raisins or replace them with dried cranberries.

