name:
Salmon fillet in crust
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- 1 rectangular roll
Salmon fillets: 1lb(450 g)
Zucchini: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 7.1oz(200 g)- already drained
Taggiasca olives: 1.2oz(35 g)- pitted
Caper berries: 0.5oz(15 g)
Almond slices: 1 ¼tbsp(20 g)
Mint: 6leaves
Thyme: 3sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1spoonful
Greek yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Lemon juice: 0.7tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the salmon fillet in crust, start with the zucchini. After washing and drying them, trim the ends and slice them thinly to obtain slices no thicker than 1/8 inch . Place them in a bowl, season with a drizzle of olive oil
and mix . Heat a grill and cook them for a few minutes on each side, or until they are grilled . Remember not to move them while they cook, so the grilled part will be well-defined. Once cooked, set them aside .
Toast the almonds for a few minutes in a pan and set these aside as well , then finely chop the sun-dried tomatoes drained of their preserving oil , the pitted olives
the caper berries with the stem removed and the mint and thyme leaves . Combine the chopped ingredients in a bowl and mix everything together .
Finally, fillet the salmon: run a smooth, tapered blade between the flesh and the skin of the salmon . Ensure it has no bones (otherwise you can remove them with kitchen tweezers). After cleaning the cutting board, grind salt and white pepper on the spot , lay the two fillets on it and sprinkle with another pinch of spices. Then gently massage to allow the salt and pepper to penetrate the surface .
Unroll the sheet of puff pastry, positioning it so that the longer side is vertically oriented. Then lay the zucchini slices horizontally, covering approximately 12 inches . Spread the chopped mixture over the zucchini , add the toasted almond flakes
and then the salmon fillets. Overlap the thinnest parts to obtain a homogeneous piece . Then fold the puff pastry over, first one end and then the other , close the ends like candy and create a decoration by gently scoring the surface diagonally on one side
and on the other . Finally, beat one egg yolk with the cream and brush the surface .
Bake in a static oven, preheated, at 392°F for about 20 minutes. Then raise the temperature to 464°F and continue for another 4-5 minutes . Meanwhile, pour the Greek yogurt into a bowl. Grate the lemon zest , then squeeze it
and pour the juice in . Adjust with a pinch of grated pepper and mix well . Remove from the oven and let it cool slightly before serving your salmon fillet in crust with a bowl of yogurt on the side .
It is recommended to consume the salmon fillet in crust immediately. If preferred, you can store the fillet in the refrigerator, although the puff pastry will become soggy. You can prepare in advance by cooking the zucchini and preparing the chopped mixture before cooking everything.
Since our salmon fillet in crust is inspired by Beef Wellington, why not try replacing the tomatoes with mushrooms and the zucchini with ham? Just like in the classic recipe! If you want to add an extra touch of flavor, crumble some Quartirolo cheese, or feta, before closing the fillet: you'll taste the goodness!

