name:
Vegetables in crust
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 2- rolls of 230 g each
Potatoes: 0.5lb(200 g)
Portobello mushrooms: 5.3oz(150 g)
Red cabbage: 1cup(100 g)
Taleggio cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Fontina cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 1- sprig
Sage: - a few leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 1
Whole milk: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the vegetables in crust, start by cleaning and cutting the potatoes into large chunks 1-1.5 inches , plunge them into a pot with salted boiling water and boil for 15 minutes ; once ready, drain them and let them cool slightly. Meanwhile, clean the mushrooms with a slightly damp cloth or paper towel and then detach the stem from the cap .
Chop both the stems and caps . After removing the outer leaves of the red cabbage, slice it thinly . In a pan, heat some oil along with a clove of garlic with the skin on, a sprig of rosemary, and a few sage leaves. Then toss in the mushroom pieces .
Then season with salt, wait a moment for the juices to reduce, and set aside . Take care of the cheeses. Remove the rind from the taleggio and cut it into cubes while you can grate the fontina using a large-hole grater .
Place the cabbage at the bottom of 4 ramekins and add some taleggio cubes , some mushrooms , and potatoes .
Finish with the grated fontina and some small pieces of cabbage , and finally a good grind of pepper . Unroll the two sheets of puff pastry and cut them into strips about 0.5 inches wide .
Then begin weaving the strips together to form a weave similar to a wicker basket . Once a dense square is created, cut out 4 circles with a 4.5-inch pastry cutter .
Lift the discs using a spatula and place them over the ramekins, applying gentle pressure to adhere the pastry . Brush the surface with a mixture of beaten egg and a tablespoon of milk
and proceed to cooking . After 15 minutes at 385°F in a static oven , your vegetables in crust will be ready to enjoy .
It is ideal to consume the vegetables in crust immediately as they may release vegetable liquid and the pastry could become less crispy. However, if you prefer, you can store them for a couple of days in the refrigerator. If you like, you can freeze everything raw before cooking and cook it from frozen.
The vegetables in crust allow you the maximum freedom in choosing not only the vegetables to use but also the cheeses!

