name:
New England hot dog buns
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3.9cups(500 g)
Whole milk: ⅔cup(145 g)- at room temperature
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: ¼cup(40 g)
Eggs: 1- at room temperature
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: ½tsp(3 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + rising time (about 3 h)

instructions:
To prepare the New England hot dog buns, first combine the water and milk in a jug and set them aside for the moment . Pour the flour into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook, then add the crumbled fresh yeast and sugar . Turn on the mixer at medium speed to combine the ingredients.
Add the egg as well and continue working until it is fully absorbed by the flour. At this point, pour in the mixture of water and milk gradually, keeping the mixer running . When the liquids are almost fully absorbed, add the salt and continue mixing until completely absorbed.
Finally, add the softened butter little by little, waiting for each piece to be fully incorporated before adding another . When you have obtained a homogeneous dough, transfer it to a lightly floured work surface and knead it briefly by hand , then form a ball of dough and let it rise in a bowl for about 2 hours, covered with plastic wrap .
After the rising time , divide the dough into 6 portions of 5 oz each and form balls. Roll out the balls with a rolling pin to a length of 7 inches .
Roll the dough onto itself from the longer side, making sure to press with your fingers with each turn so that the roll holds its shape and doesn't open during baking . Seal the final part by pinching the closure side with your fingers . Place the rolls seam-side down in the pan : for these quantities, it is advisable to use a 11x7 inch pan because this way the buns will rise during baking and stick together. Using a larger pan would not achieve the same result.
After filling the pan, brush the rolls with a mixture of water and egg yolk and let them rise for another 45 minutes or so. Once risen, bake the buns in a preheated static oven at 355°F for about 25-30 minutes. When they are nicely golden on top, take them out and let them cool slightly , then you can separate the New England hot dog buns and use them for your recipes!
The New England hot dog buns can be stored in a tightly closed bag for about 5 days. Alternatively, you can freeze them after baking and letting them cool completely.
If desired, you can replace the butter with the same amount of seed oil.

