name:
Chocolate mousse without eggs
ingredients:
Dark chocolate 55%: 6.25oz(175 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(125 g)
Powdered sugar: 4tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + at least 2 hours of rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate mousse without eggs, start with the dark chocolate. Chop it finely on a cutting board and place it in a large bowl . Then take a saucepan with high sides and pour in the milk, starting to heat it over low heat. Gradually add the powdered sugar, blending it into the milk with a hand whisk to avoid lumps .
When the milk is hot and well mixed with the powdered sugar, pour it into the bowl with the chocolate and mix with a spatula to make the mixture smooth . While the mixture cools, whip the cream with a whisk .
Once the cream is well whipped, add it to the chocolate mixture and mix it gently with a spatula from the bottom up to prevent the cream from deflating . Continue mixing until you obtain a smooth and lump-free cream .
At this point, cover the chocolate mousse with transparent plastic wrap in contact to prevent a crust from forming on the surface . Let it cool to room temperature, then transfer it to the refrigerator for at least 2 hours. Once chilled, transfer it to a piping bag with a star nozzle and fill four 3.5 oz glasses each. Now your chocolate mousse without eggs is ready to be enjoyed and delight your guests' palates .
The chocolate mousse without eggs can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for up to 5 days.
It can be frozen. To use it, it must be transferred to the refrigerator and then consumed within 1 day.
If the mousse curdles, you can slightly heat it in the microwave and mix it with a spatula.
This classic will conquer your guests' palates, but if you want to make the appearance even more pleasing, you can decorate the surface of the mousse with white chocolate curls. And for a chocolate mousse with an extra kick, try flavoring it with orange zest: the citrus-chocolate combination never disappoints!
The mousse derives its name from France, the country that created this delicious after-meal dessert, and indeed mousse in French means “foam,” thus recalling the delicacy of this dessert.

