name:
Brisè baskets with goat cheese and herbs
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- very cold
Fine salt: 1- pinch
Goat: 0.44lb(200 g)
Swiss chard: 4 ¼cups(150 g)
Pancetta: 3.2oz(90 g)- diced
Parsley: to taste- to chop
Lemon peel: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the brisé baskets with goat cheese and herbs, start with the base dough. In the mixer, pour the flour, cold butter in pieces, and salt and activate the blades until you get small crumbs. Add the cold water slowly, and as soon as the mixture compacts, transfer it to the work surface . Quickly compact it with your hands to form a ball and wrap it in plastic wrap. Let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours .
In the meantime, move on to the herbs. After cleaning them, pour them into a saucepan with a drizzle of oil , cover with the lid, and let them wilt for about 5 minutes .
At the end of cooking, let the herbs drain and cool . In the meantime, cook the bacon as well: place the cubes in a pan and let them sizzle for a few moments until they become golden, then drain them on a towel to remove the excess fat .
Pour the goat cheese into a bowl and add the grated lemon zest , chopped parsley, adjust with salt and pepper , and transfer the mixture into a pastry bag with a star nozzle .
Now that you have everything, retrieve the brisé pastry. Dust it with a pinch of flour and roll it out with the rolling pin to a thickness of 1/25 inches . If the pastry is very cold, it will be a bit difficult to roll out, so it's better to beat it with the rolling pin first. Cut out 6 disks with a pastry cutter with a diameter of 4.3 inches .
Place each disk inside 6 basket-shaped molds with a top diameter of 3.1 inches , make the pastry adhere well to the fluted part and remove the excess with a small knife . At this point, place 6 pieces of parchment paper inside the molds .
Pour a small pile of baking beads or dried legumes inside and proceed with blind baking in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 15 minutes . Once cooked, remove from the oven and let the shells cool completely before filling them with the cream .
Garnish with the herbs by wrapping them around the fork like spaghetti , complete with bacon cubes , and your brisé baskets with goat cheese and herbs are ready .
It is recommended to consume brisé baskets with goat cheese and herbs immediately, however, you can keep them for a maximum of 1-2 days in the refrigerator, bearing in mind that they will lose their crispness. Alternatively, you can also freeze the baskets, already cooked but without filling.
Add a touch of flavor and color to your brisé baskets with goat cheese and herbs by flavoring the brisé pastry dough with saffron. Instead of goat cheese, you can use ricotta!

