name:
Wolf's mouths with cream
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2.8cups(350 g)
Water: ¾cup(175 g)- at room temperature
Fresh brewer's yeast: 2tsp(10 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- softened
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 4.6oz(130 g)- (from about 6 medium eggs)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Water: 0.3cup(70 g)- at room temperature
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Egg yolks: 4.4oz(125 g)- (from about 6 medium eggs)
Rice starch: 9 ½tsp(40 g)
Sugar: 0.67cup(130 g)
Vanilla bean: 2
Lemon peel: ½
Alchermes: 1.3cups(300 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus rising times (about 3 and a half hours)

instructions:
To prepare the wolf's mouths, first make the starter. In a container, pour the water, the yeast, and mix with a teaspoon until it is completely dissolved. In the bowl of a stand mixer equipped with a hook, pour the Manitoba flour, the water in which you dissolved the yeast, and mix until a homogeneous mixture is obtained .
At this point, transfer it to a work surface, form a ball , place it inside a bowl, and cover with plastic wrap . Let rise for 1 hour and a half in the turned-off oven with a pot of hot water placed at the bottom of the oven. Take the dough after the rising time has elapsed .
Pour the starter into the bowl of a stand mixer. Add the all-purpose flour , 70 ml of room temperature water , and the lemon zest .
Add the vanilla bean seeds and the sugar . Work until you have obtained a homogeneous mixture, then add the egg yolks little by little and let them absorb completely.
Add the salt and work for a few minutes until you get a smooth and elastic dough. Add the softened butter a little at a time , waiting for it to be well absorbed before adding more. Then work for at least 15 minutes until it is well incorporated .
Once you have obtained a soft but very elastic dough, using a dough scraper to detach it from the sides , transfer it into a bowl. Lightly oil your hands and make 4 folds, bringing the outer edges of the dough toward the center . Repeat this operation 3 times, letting the dough rest for 10 minutes and covering with a cloth between each fold.
After making the last fold, cover with plastic wrap and let the dough rise for an hour and a half in the turned-off oven, adding a pot of hot water. This is the best time to prepare the custard; you can find all the tips in the dedicated box. As soon as it has doubled in volume , transfer the dough to a lightly floured surface .
Divide into 20 pieces of 50g each . Take the first piece, lift the edges of dough bringing them toward the center , flip the ball over and rotate it with circular movements to obtain a spherical shape . Repeat the same operation for all portions of dough, ensuring that the closure of the balls is well sealed.
Place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, spacing them generously . Cover them with plastic wrap. Let rise for another 30 minutes at room temperature . Then bake in a preheated static oven at 347°F for 20 minutes. When they are golden brown, remove the brioches from the oven and let cool .
To prepare the custard, first place a glass bowl in the freezer. At this point, extract the vanilla seeds and cut the pods into pieces . Pour the milk into a saucepan, add both the seeds and the vanilla pods. Extract the zest from the lemon, removing only the yellow part, and add it to the saucepan . Turn on the heat and heat everything, stirring occasionally. In another saucepan, pour the egg yolks, sugar, and rice starch
Using a soft whisk, mix to obtain a creamy and smooth consistency . As soon as the milk is about to boil, transfer it into the yolks in 3 times, filtering it with a sieve and always mixing with the whisk .
Transfer back to the heat, stirring continuously until it thickens . To cool it quickly, take the bowl from the freezer and pour the cream inside . Mix with a whisk very quickly until you bring the cream to 122°F, below the cooking point. You should obtain a smooth and very shiny cream . Place in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap until ready to use.
When both the cream and the brioches are cold, create a crosswise cut on the surface of the rolls: just like a mouth, the bottom part should be greater than the top . Soak the cut part in the alchermes
and fill abundantly with the custard . Dust with powdered sugar and serve the wolf's mouths with cream .
Once filled, the wolf's mouths can be stored for a day in the refrigerator.
It is possible to freeze the cooked brioches.
For an even more delicious touch, use chocolate custard!

