name:
Pouches with lentils, sausage and cheese
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- (1 rectangular)
Sausage: 4.2oz(120 g)
Precooked lentils: ½cup(90 g)
Brie cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Thyme: - a few sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1spoonful
Mixed seeds: to taste- (flax, pumpkin, sunflower)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the pouches with lentils, sausage, and cheese, start by cooking the sausage. After peeling and cutting it into pieces, place it in a pan with a drizzle of oil . Sear it for a few minutes over high heat until it's roasted, in the meantime crumble it with a wooden spoon. As soon as the meat changes color and texture, add the pre-cooked lentils . Season with a few sprigs of fresh thyme, a pinch of pepper, and adjust the salt if necessary .
A few moments of cooking and the mix will be ready . Remove the rind from the brie and chop it with a knife , then add it to the bowl with the lentils and sausages .
Mix everything and let it cool . Unroll the puff pastry and use an 8 cm (3-inch) square cutter to obtain 12 squares . Fill the squares with a spoonful of filling .
Form the pouches by lifting the two ends towards the center first, and then the other two sides ; match the tips and pinch the dough to seal them . Transfer everything onto a baking tray lined with parchment paper and brush with the beaten egg yolk and cream .
Finally, garnish the surface with mixed seeds and a grind of pepper . Bake your pouches with lentils, sausage, and cheese in a static oven, preheated to 392°F (200°C), for about 20 minutes . Let them cool before serving !
We recommend consuming the pouches with lentils, sausage, and cheese as soon as possible to keep the puff pastry crispy. Alternatively, you can store the pouches in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, remembering that the texture will gradually be lost. Alternatively, you can freeze the raw pouches, perhaps already brushed, and if you have used fresh ingredients not previously frozen, remember to cook them from frozen.
These irresistible pouches with lentils, sausage, and cheese are perfect as they are, but if you would like a hint of sweetness, considering the mix of bold flavors, then sauté some thinly sliced leeks. Instead of brie, you can use any other melting cheese that is not rich in whey. Finally, to avoid wasting the cotechino, you can use it instead of sausage.

