name:
Zebra Cheesecake
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 7oz(200 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)- melted
Blackberries: 1cup(150 g)
Greek yogurt: 1.6cups(400 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(120 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.5oz(14 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Blackberries: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + the setting time for the cheesecake (about 4 h)

instructions:
To make the zebra cheesecake, first take care of the base: pour the cookies into the mixer bowl and finely blend them, add the melted butter and mix to combine. Pour the mixture obtained into a 8-inch springform pan lined with parchment paper on both the bottom and the sides.
Compact the mixture using the back of the spoon and place it in the refrigerator to firm up for 30 minutes. Soak 9 g of gelatin in a small bowl with cold water (this will be used for the dark cream) and soak the other 5 g in a separate bowl, also in cold water . Meanwhile, pour the yogurt into a large bowl and add the powdered sugar .
Mix to combine and set aside. Pour the liquid cream into another bowl and whip it with an electric mixer until it becomes frothy .
Now gently fold the whipped cream into the yogurt . Divide the mixture into two parts: one of 250 g and one of about 650 g . Puree the cleaned blackberries in a blender .
You need a smooth puree to add to the 250 g mixture . Meanwhile, heat 20 g of liquid cream, dividing it equally into two small saucepans .
Respectively dissolve the 9 g and the 5 g of softened gelatin, well squeezed out of the water . The cream mix in which you dissolved 5 g of gelatin is added to the light cream , while the mix with 9 g of gelatin should be added to the blackberry cream .
Carefully mix the mixtures and, once ready , take the pan with the cookie base and pour two tablespoons of the light mixture in the center .
With the back of a spoon, spread the cream in the center, then pour another two tablespoons of blackberry cream on top . Continue alternating the creams .
Once the surface is completely covered with the cream , store the cake in the refrigerator to firm up for 4 hours. After the resting time, take it out of the refrigerator , remove it from the mold and decorate with blackberries and mint leaves to taste .
The zebra cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
Alternatively to blackberries, you can also use mixed berries.

