name:
Apple Chutney
ingredients:
Fuji Apples: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Yellow onions: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Brown sugar: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Raisins: ¾cup(125 g)
White wine vinegar: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Fresh ginger: 0.75oz(20 g)
Coriander seeds: 2tsp
Cloves: ½tsp
Fine salt: 4.4tsp(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 2 h
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make apple and onion chutney, make sure to sanitize the jars as per the Ministry of Health guidelines at the end of the recipe. Peel the apples and coarsely chop them into cubes , then clean the onions and cut them into thin slices .
Peel and cut the fresh ginger into strips . Pour the cloves and coriander seeds into a mortar and crush them with the pestle until they are powdered .
Pour the onions into a large pot along with the apples and ginger .
Add the spice powder , raisins , and brown sugar .
Finally, add the salt and half of the vinegar . Mix everything well and cook over medium heat for about an hour.
After an hour, pour in the remaining vinegar , lower the heat, and cook gently for another hour. After cooking, the mixture will be very thick, similar to jam . If you wish to consume the apple chutney immediately, you can let it cool and serve it .
If you prefer to store it longer, transfer the hot mixture into the jars that you have previously sanitized along with the lids . Close the jars with the lids and turn them upside down . Let the jars cool upside down so that a vacuum seal is formed. Once cooled, check that the lid does not make a "click-clack" sound when you press it: if the vacuum has been achieved correctly, wait at least a month before consuming.
Once opened, apple and onion chutney can be stored in the refrigerator for up to a week. If a vacuum seal has been created, you can store it in a cool, dry place for about 3 months.
Serve apple and onion chutney with aged cheeses or accompany it with flavorful meat stews!
Homemade preparation of preserves and jams can present health risks. In a domestic setting, it is not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of food, which industrial procedures are capable of providing to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to strictly follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it should always be remembered that the same level of food safety as that of professional-level preserves and jams cannot be achieved. For correct preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the Ministry of Health guidelines .

