name:
Meatballs with Turnip Greens
ingredients:
Broccoli rabe: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (cleaned)
Taleggio cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fresh scallion: 2.8oz(80 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(50 g)
Water: 1.5oz(40 g)
Eggs: 1
Garlic: 2cloves
Green Peperoncino: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Fine salt: 1tsp
Eggs: 2
Breadcrumbs: ¾cup(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make turnip green meatballs, first wash the greens under running water . Clean and slice the scallion . In a pot, heat the oil and garlic, add the scallion, and sauté for one minute .
Add the cleaned greens , remove the garlic , and season with chili pepper and salt.
Add the water and continue cooking: the greens will cook for about 10 minutes in total. When the greens are cooked , transfer them to a tall and narrow glass .
Blend the greens with an immersion blender to create a puree . At this point, transfer the blended greens to a large bowl and add the breadcrumbs and grated cheese , then mix.
Incorporate the egg and mix again to create a homogeneous mixture . In the meantime, cut the Taleggio into cubes .
Take a portion of mixture weighing about 0.7 oz, form a ball with your hands , create a cavity with your finger , and fill with a cube of Taleggio .
Close the meatball by rolling it between your hands . Prepare the breading: in a small bowl, beat the eggs with a pinch of salt and pour the breadcrumbs into another. Meanwhile, heat the oil for frying in a pot to a temperature of 330°F. Dip the meatballs first in the beaten egg and then in the breadcrumbs .
Fry a few meatballs at a time for 2 minutes or until golden brown. Then drain them on a tray lined with absorbent paper . Serve the turnip green meatballs piping hot .
We recommend consuming the turnip green meatballs immediately. Alternatively, you can freeze them after cooking.
If you do not like the strong taste of Taleggio, you can use a milder cheese. You can also bake the meatballs in a convection oven at 390°F for 20 minutes.

