name:
Upside-down pear and chocolate cakes
ingredients:
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.875cup(110 g)
Butter: 3oz(80 g)- (at room temperature)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Baking powder: ½tsp(3 g)
Nut flour: ⅛cup(30 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(70 g)
Pears: 0.875cup(120 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Cardamon: 1- teaspoon in powder
Fine salt: 1- teaspoon
Sugar: 8tbsp(100 g)
Water: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the upside-down pear and chocolate mini cakes, start by placing the room temperature butter in a bowl with the sugar and a pinch of salt . Turn on the mixer and add the eggs one at a time, allowing them to gradually incorporate .
Continue by adding the sifted all-purpose flour , slowly pour in the milk , and then the baking powder .
Only the hazelnut flour and ground cardamom are missing. Once the batter is well combined, turn off the mixer and attend to the pears. After washing and drying them, remove the stems and set aside 4 thin slices .
Slice the remaining part and cut it into cubes . Finally, chop the dark chocolate .
In the bowl with the batter, add the pear cubes and the dark chocolate, and mix everything together . Move on to the caramel. In a steel saucepan, pour the sugar and water , turn on the stove to medium temperature, cooking it until the caramel turns amber in color .
Turn off the heat and remove from the stove, then add the butter and mix well . Transfer the butter caramel into four 3.5-inch molds
Now place the 4 pear slices you set aside earlier , cover with the batter , leveling it carefully .
Proceed to cooking. Bake the mini cakes in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 30 minutes . When they are cooked, and still hot, place a plate on the mold and flip the cake using a potholder . Here are your upside-down pear and chocolate mini cakes ready .
We recommend consuming the upside-down pear and chocolate mini cakes immediately to prevent the caramel from solidifying too much.
The cardamom in the batter of the upside-down pear and chocolate mini cakes gives a pleasant fresh and delicately pungent aroma. You could therefore replace it with a bit of ginger, fresh or powdered, which certainly echoes the effect, or a pinch of chili powder for the bolder palates!

