name:
Green Tea Cookies
ingredients:
Type 2 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(50 g)
Butter: 0.7cup(160 g)- soft
Whole milk: 0.4cup(100 g)
Brown sugar: ⅓cup(80 g)
Egg yolks: 1.1oz(30 g)- (approximately 2)
Green Tea: 3bags
Fine salt: 1pinch
Dark chocolate 55%: 5.3oz(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Green Tea: 0.35oz(10 g)- in leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + cooling times (about 1 h and 30 min)

instructions:
To prepare the green tea cookies, first heat the milk in a small saucepan, steep the tea bags and let it cool off the heat. Meanwhile, place the softened butter in a large bowl with the brown sugar and salt .
Start whipping the mixture with an electric mixer, then add the egg yolks and continue to mix until fully absorbed. At this point, add the type 2 flour and once incorporated, pour the flavored milk , continuing to mix with the beaters.
Finally, add the all-purpose flour and mix for about a minute until you get a homogeneous mixture . Transfer it to the work surface and form a smooth and compact dough , cover with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least an hour.
Now you can prepare the ganache: chop the dark chocolate with a knife , then pour 150 g of cream into a small saucepan, add the green tea leaves , and bring to a boil .
At this point, strain the cream and pour it hot over the chopped chocolate , then mix with a spatula to obtain a smooth and shiny cream . Cover with cling film in contact and let it rest in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes .
After the shortcrust has cooled, lightly dust the dough with flour and roll it out to form a rectangle with a thickness of 1/8 inch . Cut out 60 discs with a pastry cutter with a diameter of 3 inches , transfer them onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, and decorate by engraving the word “TEA” with the tip of a knife, if desired . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 15 minutes. Once cooked, remove the cookies from the oven and let them cool.
Meanwhile, take the ganache out of the refrigerator and add the remaining 3.5 oz of cold cream , then lightly whip the cream with an electric mixer and transfer it to a piping bag .
Finally, fill half of the discs with the ganache and cover them with the remaining discs . Your green tea cookies are ready to be enjoyed !
Green tea cookies can be stored in the refrigerator for about 4 days. If desired, you can freeze the shortcrust dough.
You can use other types of tea to make cookies even more aromatic!

