name:
Caprese ravioli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 2
Tomato paste: 2tbsp(30 g)
Semolina: to taste
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 12.7oz(360 g)
Ricotta di bufala cheese: 0.6cup(150 g)
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.2oz(35 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 2cups(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note FROM THE EDITORS: The recipe is not inspired by the original CAPRESE RAVIOLI from Capri, but takes inspiration from the mozzarella, tomato, and basil dish, the "caprese," to combine the three ingredients in a tasty way.

instructions:
To make the caprese ravioli, first finely chop the buffalo mozzarella and place it on a colander to drain its whey. Meanwhile, work on the fresh pasta: beat the eggs with the tomato paste .
Pour the mixture into the flour , arranged in a well in a bowl. Initially mix with a fork ; when the dough has gained some consistency, continue kneading by hand on the work surface for about 10 minutes, until you get a smooth ball .
Cover it with plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature for about half an hour. In the meantime, take the drained buffalo mozzarella, add the ricotta, grated Grana Padano PDO , plenty of hand-torn basil , salt, and pepper.
Mix thoroughly and set aside. After the resting time, sprinkle the work surface with durum wheat semolina and roll out the pasta into a thin sheet, a couple of millimeters thick. Divide the sheet into 2 equal parts with a pastry cutter .
Distribute the filling in well-spaced mounds the size of walnuts on one sheet, and cover with the other sheet . Press the sheets together between each mound with your fingers , being careful to expel any excess air.
Cut out the ravioli with the appropriate cutter . You can gather the leftover pasta scraps into a dough ball and freeze them . Place a pot full of salted water on the stove and bring it to a boil, which will be used to cook the ravioli. Now prepare the sauce: wash and quarter the cherry tomatoes .
Put a large skillet on the stove, heat the oil with the garlic clove, and then add the cherry tomatoes . Cook for 5 minutes over moderate heat, being careful to remove the garlic clove halfway through cooking . Season the cherry tomatoes with fresh basil and keep warm.
Meanwhile, immerse the ravioli in the boiling water . As soon as they rise to the surface, drain them into the pot with the sauce . Toss for a few moments to flavor and serve the caprese ravioli piping hot .
Once the caprese ravioli are prepared, we recommend cooking them immediately; alternatively, you can store the raw ravioli in the freezer for up to 1 month. To freeze them, you can proceed as follows: place the tray with the ravioli in the freezer for a couple of hours or until they harden, then arrange them in freezer-safe bags. When you want to use them, remove the bag from the freezer and cook them in plenty of salted boiling water while still frozen.
Always tear the basil with your hands to better release its aroma while preserving the essential oils!

