name:
Gyoza cacio e pepe
ingredients:
Water: 0.375cup(90 g)- warm
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1.1cups(250 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- to grate
Sichuan peppers: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Water: 1.3tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
First, make the dough for the gyoza cacio e pepe wrappers. Pour the flour and salt into a mixer with blades . Start the blades and gradually pour in the hot water into the machine . Continue to mix until the dough is well combined .
Transfer to a work surface and knead quickly . Form a ball, place it in a bowl, and cover with plastic wrap . Let it rest for about half an hour at room temperature. After this time, transfer the dough to a lightly floured work surface .
Using a dough scraper, divide the dough into 16 pieces, each weighing 0.63 oz . Form them into equally sized balls . Keeping the remaining balls covered with plastic wrap to prevent them from drying out, take a rolling pin and roll each ball into a disc about 1/8 inch thick . To give them a regular shape, you can cut them with a 3.5-inch cutter.
In a bowl, add the ricotta, grated Pecorino , and plenty of ground pepper . Given the saltiness of Pecorino, it might not be necessary to add salt, but adjust according to the type of Pecorino you've chosen. Mix well, take a not-too-heaping tablespoon of the mixture, and place it in the center of the first disc .
Then, using your fingertips, fold the ravioli into a half-moon shape , pinching the dough along the sealing line to secure the filling inside and give the ravioli its typical dumpling appearance . Proceed in the same way with all the ravioli .
At this point, pour a drizzle of oil into a pan and let it heat. Add the dumplings to the pan and wait a few seconds before turning them. They should be well browned .
Deglaze with water , cover with a lid , and wait a couple of minutes .
Serve the gyoza cacio e pepe with a small bowl of soy sauce. Finish with a pinch of pepper , some Pecorino shavings , and a few fresh oregano leaves .
Once cooked, gyoza can be stored in the fridge for up to 1 day. They can be frozen raw if you have used all fresh and not thawed ingredients.
Add some pepper to the ravioli dough as well.
If you prefer, you can steam the gyoza, an equally traditional cooking method.
Looking for other variations of the classic Roman recipe? Try the Cacio e pepe ravioli or the Cheese and Pepper Balls with Fondue !


