name:
Pita with fried chicken
ingredients:
Yellow peppers: 1cup(150 g)
Red peppers: 1cup(150 g)
Red onions: 5.5oz(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Chicken breast: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Eggs: 3
Breadcrumbs: 0.3cup(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.75oz(50 g)
Corn flakes: 1.67cups(50 g)
Oregano: 1spoonful- dry
Greek yogurt: 0.4cup(100 g)
Lemons: 1
Sunflower seed oil: to taste
Chives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the pita with fried chicken, first wash the bell peppers, then cut them in half, remove the seeds, and then cut them into thin strips . Clean and slice the red onion as well .
Heat a pan with 2 tablespoons of olive oil, add the vegetables , salt, and pepper , and sauté them for 10 minutes. They should be soft .
In the meantime, prepare the sauce: in a bowl, pour the yogurt, flavor it with lemon zest and its juice , and finally, season with chopped chives .
Take the chicken and cut it into sticks . Prepare the coating: in one bowl, pour the cornflakes and breadcrumbs, flavor with oregano , and in two other bowls, pour the beaten eggs and the flour. Now take a piece of chicken and first pass it in the flour .
Then dip the chicken in beaten eggs and finally pass it in the cornflakes . Repeat the egg and breadcrumb with cornflakes step once more for an even crispier coating. As you bread the pieces, place them on a baking sheet .
Heat the frying oil and when it reaches 340°F (measured with a food thermometer), immerse the pieces . Cook for about 3 minutes. As soon as the chicken is golden, drain it with a slotted spoon and place it on a tray lined with paper towels to absorb excess oil .
Now heat the pita in a pan for a few minutes . While still hot, fill it with the sautéed vegetables and the fried chicken cut into pieces .
Flavor with the yogurt sauce and chives cut into rings . The Pita with fried chicken is ready , fold it in half and enjoy it hot!
We recommend enjoying the pita with fried chicken immediately. You can prepare the vegetables in advance and store them in the refrigerator.
If you don't like yogurt sauce, you can replace it with mayonnaise or a few drops of Tabasco if you prefer spicier flavors!

