name:
Strozzapreti with seafood
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Water: 0.85cup(200 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¾tsp(10 g)
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Clams: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Prawns: 8
White wine: ¼glass(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Dried chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Datterino tomatoes: (300 g)
Black olives: 1.4oz(40 g)- in oil and drained
White wine: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Parsley: to taste- minced

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High
Note + 2 hours for purging the clams

instructions:
To prepare strozzapreti with seafood, start with the How to clean clams . Tap them on a cutting board, one by one, to ensure they are intact and not filled with sand. If you find any broken clams, discard them . Then soak them in a bowl full of fresh water and add plenty of salt to recreate seawater. Let them purge for a couple of hours; before using them, make sure none are open, otherwise, discard them, and then rinse .
In the meantime, take care of the fresh pasta. In a bowl, pour the flour, and salt and knead by pouring the water a little at a time while working with the other hand . Work for a few minutes on the work surface until you get a soft and homogeneous ball, wrap it in plastic wrap and let the dough rest at room temperature for at least half an hour .
While the pasta rests, move on to the How to Clean and Open Mussels . Use a smooth-bladed knife to detach the volcanic-shaped encrustations on the shells , then remove the byssus, or the filamentous part , and finally scrape away the impurities with a scourer; rinse them under a stream of fresh water .
Finally, also clean the How to clean shrimp . Remove the legs and the shell on the back, leaving the rest intact . Then cut the back and remove the intestine, that black filament you will see .
Place a pan on the heat, heat a splash of oil and a clove of garlic in its skin. Then add mussels and clams , immediately pour in 50 g of wine , and cover with a lid .
Shake the pan occasionally and let the bivalves open completely, it will take about 5 minutes . Once ready, drain them, keeping the cooking liquid aside , and then start shelling almost all the seafood, keeping some whole for decoration .
Put a saucepan on the heat, heat a drop of oil, add the whole cherry tomatoes, and add the crumbled dry chili pepper , then very little water, about a tablespoon, . Cover with the lid and let cook at low temperature for 15 minutes, shaking the pan occasionally .
When the tomatoes have softened, add the shrimp , raise the heat, and when they are colored, deglaze them with the remaining white wine . As soon as the alcoholic part has evaporated, lower the heat and add the shelled seafood, and moisten with about 200 g of the cooking liquid of mussels and clams .
Add the olives and chopped parsley . Continue cooking for another 20 minutes, stirring occasionally and letting the sauce reduce a little: add more mussel and clam broth if necessary .
In the meantime, you can roll out the pasta. Divide the rested dough into two , then roll out the first half with the rolling pin until you get a sheet about 1 mm thick . Then, with a smooth wheel, cut to get strips about 1 inch wide .
Tightly twist the bigoli slightly to obtain the strozzapreti . Gradually place the pasta on floured trays. When all are ready, cook the strozzapreti by pouring them into a pot with boiling salted water . As soon as the pasta is al dente, drain it directly into the sauce .
Then add a splash of mussel and clam cooking water , so you can toss the pasta. Finally, with the heat off, add a drizzle of oil again and a bit of chopped parsley . Mix and serve your strozzapreti with seafood .
Once the strozzapreti with seafood are ready, it is not recommended to store them. If you like, you can prepare the sauce a few hours in advance or at most store it for up to a day in the refrigerator. However, it is recommended to prepare the pasta at the moment. Freezing is not recommended.
Along with the shrimp, you can add scampi to your strozzapreti with seafood or, if you like, also use razor clams. For a white version, remove the cherry tomatoes and color the cooking water of the clams and mussels with a bit of saffron: it will also give aroma and flavor!

