name:
Eggnog
ingredients:
Whole milk: 3cups(700 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Egg yolks: 6
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Brandy: 1.5oz(40 g)
Vanilla: to taste- powdered
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp(2 g)
Nutmeg: ½tsp(2 g)
Powdered ginger: 0.4tsp(2 g)
Cloves: 3

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the eggnog, pour the milk into a pot, then flavor with vanilla , ginger , and cloves .
Add the ground cinnamon and grated nutmeg . Heat over low heat ; it should not boil, but just warm up without reaching a simmer.
Mix sugar and egg yolks with a whisk until they are light and frothy (you can also use an electric mixer for convenience). When the milk is warm, gradually pour it into the yolk mixture, straining it to remove the cloves . This should be done slowly, mixing well each time you add the milk , so the eggs don't cook.
Once all the milk is incorporated, return the liquid to the saucepan and cook over medium-low heat, stirring constantly, alternating between a whisk and a spatula. Be careful not to let the mixture curdle or form lumps. You can stop cooking when the mixture is thickened, smooth, and when you dip a spoon in it, it comes out coated and veiled . Now fill a pot with cold water and ice and place an empty bowl inside, preferably cold. Pour the mixture into the bowl and stir to cool it down.
Then add the brandy and stir again . Finally, add the cream .
Gently stir again with the whisk without incorporating too much air . Eggnog can be served cold, warm, or tepid; you can add a sprinkle of nutmeg on each glass before serving .
Eggnog can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended
This version of eggnog is cooked, similar to a custard, so it is much safer than the raw version. In some versions, egg whites whipped with sugar can be used to make a froth to place on the drink once finished. The amount of alcohol can be adjusted for a more or less alcoholic version, and brandy can be substituted with bourbon or cognac.
Powdered vanilla can be replaced with vanilla extract.

