name:
Fajitas
ingredients:
Beef sirloin: 0.9lb(400 g)
Chicken breast: 0.9lb(400 g)
Red peppers: 2cups(350 g)
Yellow peppers: 2.3cups(350 g)
White onions: 9oz(250 g)
Lime: 1
Worcestershire sauce: 1 ⅓tsp(20 g)
Coriander: 2tsp(10 g)
Powdered cumin: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Flour tortillas: 8
Edam cheese: to taste- to be cut into julienne
Precooked black beans: to taste
Mexican tomato salsa: to taste
Guacamole: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 1 h to marinate the meat

instructions:
To make fajitas, first prepare the meat: slice the sirloin , then cut it into strips and do the same with the chicken breast .
Transfer the meat strips to a baking dish and add the grated zest of one lime and its juice .
Also add chopped cilantro , cumin, salt, and pepper. Mix with your hands to blend all the flavors well , then cover with plastic wrap and let marinate in the refrigerator for an hour.
In the meantime, you can prepare the vegetables: peel the onion and slice it , then remove the seeds and inner filaments from the bell peppers and cut them into strips . After the marinating time, let the meat come back to room temperature and heat a large pan. When it's very hot, add a splash of oil, the onion, and bell peppers .
Cook over medium-high heat for about 10 minutes, then season with salt and pepper. At this point, also add the meat , turn up the heat and let it brown well, then deglaze with Worcestershire sauce and cook for about 5-6 minutes.
When the filling is ready , you can assemble your fajitas. Slightly heat the tortillas on a griddle, add the filling in the center , and top with your favorite ingredients: we chose black beans ,
edam cheese , guacamole sauce, and pico de gallo. Fold the edges of the tortilla over the filling and enjoy your fabulous fajitas !
It is recommended to consume the fajitas as soon as they are ready. If you wish, you can marinate the meat in the refrigerator overnight but without the addition of lime juice.
Use cheddar instead of edam if you prefer, or replace Worcestershire sauce with soy sauce. Cilantro gives a pungent note to the dish, typical of tex-mex cuisine, but if you don't like it, you can substitute it with parsley.

