name:
Squid Skewers
ingredients:
Calamari (squid): 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (4 of 250 g each, to be cleaned)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 3oz(90 g)
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(50 g)
Parsley: 1tuft- to chop
Lemon peel: 1
Bay leaves: 4leaves
White pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Lemon juice: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Lettuce: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the squid skewers, first clean the squid: rinse them under running water and gently detach the head from the mantle with your hands , then remove the cartilage pen , remove the skin, and rinse the inside of the mantle under running water as well. Finally, take the tentacles, remove the eyes with a knife and push out the beak by pressing upward on the central part . The total weight of the cleaned squid is about 1.2 lbs. For more information on cleaning, you can consult the guide: how to clean squid.
Pour the breadcrumbs into a bowl and add the grated lemon zest , chopped parsley , salt, and white pepper , then mix well to combine the ingredients.
Take the cleaned squid and stuff each with 2 teaspoons of the breadcrumb mixture , 2 teaspoons of sun-dried tomatoes chopped into pieces , and a bay leaf . The bay leaf should be removed when consuming the squid.
Now, reposition the tentacle cluster at the end of the squid and skewer both the tentacles and the mantle with a long skewer to hold it in place and seal the opening . Place the stuffed squid on a cutting board and sprinkle them with the breadcrumb mixture on both sides .
Heat a grill over medium-low heat. When hot, add the stuffed squid and drizzle with a bit of oil . After about 4-5 minutes, turn the squid with the help of a fork and knife, and make cuts on the surface to aid cooking . The squid should cook for a total of about 15 minutes, but the time may vary depending on their size.
While the squid finish cooking, prepare a citronette by mixing lemon juice and oil in a bowl and emulsifying with a fork. Once ready, transfer the squid skewers to the serving plate over a bed of mixed greens and drizzle with the citronette !
It is recommended to consume the squid skewers immediately. If you wish to prepare them in advance, you can stuff them a couple of hours before and store them in the refrigerator without the external breading.
You can use black olives or anchovies instead of sun-dried tomatoes.

