name:
Tempeh with vegetables
ingredients:
Tempeh: 8oz(230 g)
Precooked chickpeas: (250 g)
Carrots: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Zucchini: 5oz(140 g)
Eggplant: 3.5oz(100 g)
Spring onions: 0.7cup(70 g)
Cashews: ½cup(60 g)
Fresh ginger: 0.7oz(20 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Sweet Paprika: 2spoonfuls
Soy sauce: ¼cup(60 g)
Water: ¼cup(60 g)
Sesame oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Sesame seeds: 1tsp
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the tempeh with vegetables, first prepare all the ingredients: cut the tempeh into strips, then slice both the ginger and the scallion and finely chop the fresh chili pepper.
After washing and trimming the vegetables, cut the eggplant into small triangles and slice both the zucchini and the carrots into strips.
Heat a wok well and pour in half of the sesame oil along with the ginger, chili pepper, and peeled garlic cloves . Add the scallion and let it sauté for 3 minutes over medium-high heat, then add the tempeh .
Deglaze with half of the soy sauce and cook for 5 minutes, always on high heat . After this time, transfer the tempeh to a bowl and set aside.
Meanwhile, spread the cashews on a baking sheet and toast them in a preheated static oven at 428°F for 5 minutes, being careful not to burn them. Return the wok in which you cooked the tempeh to the heat and deglaze the bottom with half of the water . Once the water has reduced, add the eggplants ,
the carrots and the zucchini , season with the remaining sesame oil and cook on high heat for about 5 minutes.
At this point, the cashews will be toasted, so remove them from the oven and set aside . After 5 minutes, pour the remaining soy sauce and the remaining water into the wok.
Add the drained chickpeas , paprika , and tempeh , mix well and stir-fry for another minute, then turn off the heat.
Finally, add the cashews , sesame seeds , and a few fresh parsley leaves. Serve your tempeh with vegetables while still hot !
It is recommended to consume the tempeh with vegetables immediately. It cannot be frozen.
You can replace the parsley with fresh cilantro and add a pinch of curry for an even more ethnic touch. Or you can use Taggiasca olives for a Mediterranean note!

