name:
Beetroot Pizza
ingredients:
Precooked beets: 3cups(200 g)
Type 0 flour: 2.4cups(300 g)
Whole grain flour: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Water: 1cup(240 g)- warm
Fresh brewer's yeast: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1.8tsp(10 g)
Acacia honey: ¾tsp(5 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Yellow peppers: 2 ⅓cups(350 g)
Eggplant: 7oz(200 g)
Zucchini: 1.4cups(180 g)
Tomatoes: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Smoked scamorza cheese: 6.3oz(180 g)
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus the rising times

instructions:
To prepare the beetroot pizza, first cut the beetroot into pieces. Transfer it to a container and blend with an immersion blender until you get a smooth purée .
Dissolve the yeast in the lukewarm water . In another bowl, combine the two types of flour and add the water with the dissolved yeast, starting to knead with your hands .
While continuing to knead, add the oil , the honey , and the beetroot purée
and the salt . Knead everything until you get a homogeneous mixture. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for at least two hours until it has risen.
As soon as its volume has doubled , transfer it to a floured surface . Fold the dough
and divide it into two equal portions . Shape each part into a ball and transfer to two slightly floured baking sheets . Let rise for another 30 minutes and in the meantime take care of the vegetables.
Clean the bell pepper , cut it into strips, and sauté in a pan with a drizzle of oil for about 5 minutes, adding a pinch of salt. As soon as they are tender , transfer the peppers to a bowl and cut the eggplant to the same size .
Sauté the eggplant sticks with a drizzle of oil for about 5 minutes, stirring often, adding a pinch of salt . As soon as they are cooked, add them to the bowl with the peppers and cut the zucchini, as just done with the eggplants . Sauté these as well in a pan with a drizzle of oil for 5 minutes and add a pinch of salt. Then transfer these to the bowl with the other vegetables.
Cut the tomatoes into quarters , add them to the rest and mix . Lastly, cut the scamorza cheese into cubes .
At this point, take back the risen pizza dough . Grease a baking tin and, using your hands, spread the dough until you get an oblong shape and a thickness of about 0.39 inches.
Top the first pizza with half of the vegetables and half of the scamorza cheese . Bake one pizza at a time (keep the other topped away from heat sources), in a preheated static oven at 445°F for about 18 minutes on the lowest rack, then take it out and let cool on a rack. Serve the beetroot pizza garnished with basil leaves . Enjoy it while it's still warm and in the meantime bake the second pizza!
It's possible to store the beetroot pizza in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
It can be frozen once cooked and cooled.
You can make this pizza using pumpkin pulp as well, always in the same quantities, and play with your imagination by creating unique combinations with other ingredients such as saffron and turmeric.

