name:
'Nfigghiulate
ingredients:
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 4cups(500 g)
Water: 1cup(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 2 ¼tsp(7 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¼tsp(7 g)
Sausage: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 4.25oz(120 g)
Mint: 2.1oz(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.8cup(180 g)
Lard: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the rising time (at least 3 hours)

instructions:
To make the ‘nfigghiulate, first, prepare the dough: put the semolina in a bowl and crumble in the yeast , then gradually pour in the water while kneading with the other hand . After incorporating the water, add the salt .
Finally, add the oil gradually and continue kneading until the mixture is smooth . Transfer the dough to a bowl , cover with plastic wrap, and let it rise for at least 3 hours at a temperature of 78°F-82°F.
In the meantime, wash and dry the calamint, put it in a tall, narrow container, and add the oil . Blend with an immersion blender until you get a creamy consistency. Cover the obtained pesto with plastic wrap in contact and store it in the refrigerator until it's time to use it.
Finally, grate the caciocavallo with a large-holed grater and crumble the sausage in a bowl, removing the casing . After the rising time, the dough will have increased in volume .
Roll out the dough with a rolling pin to a thickness of about 1/25 inch , then grease the sheet with a knob of lard . Spread the calamint pesto over the entire surface and sprinkle with grated caciocavallo .
Add the crumbled sausage too and roll up the dough sheet , then cut the roll obtained into slices about 2 3/8 inches thick .
Place the slices on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and press them with the palm of your hand . Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 40 minutes . Once baked, let them cool slightly and then enjoy your ‘nfigghiulate !
The ‘nfigghiulate can be stored in the fridge for about 3 days. The slices can be frozen after they have been cooked and completely cooled.
If you prefer, you can try the typical version from Canicattini Bagni, which includes lots of nepitella and oil for the filling! There is also an ancient variant in which dried figs are used instead of sausage and caciocavallo for an interesting contrast between sweet and salty.

