name:
Summer cake with whole wheat sponge cake
ingredients:
Whole grain flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Eggs: 9.7oz(275 g)
Brown sugar: ¾cup(175 g)
Honey: ½tbsp(10 g)
Lemon peel: ½
Fine salt: to taste
Egg yolks: 3tbsp(45 g)- (about 3)
Soy milk: 2cups(500 g)
Muscovado sugar: 5 ½tbsp(70 g)
Wildflower honey: 1tbsp(20 g)
Cornstarch: 4tbsp(30 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Lactose free vegetable cream: 3cups(700 g)
Nectarines: 2
Cherries: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Plums: 2
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note plus cooling and resting times

instructions:
To prepare the summer cake with whole wheat sponge cake, first make the base. Pour the eggs into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk. Add the brown sugar , salt , and honey .
Also add the lemon zest, taking only the yellow part , and run the machine at medium speed for about 15 minutes. You should obtain a fluffy, light, and frothy mixture . Turn off the machine and sift the whole wheat flour directly into the mixture .
Gently mix from bottom to top with a whisk . When you have obtained a homogeneous mixture, transfer it into a 9-inch pan lined with parchment paper . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 45 minutes. Always do the toothpick test before removing the cake from the oven .
Without burning yourself, immediately turn it over onto a wire rack and let it cool completely . In the meantime, prepare the cream. In a saucepan, pour the soy milk, honey, the seeds scraped from the pod, and the pod itself . Gently bring to a boil.
Meanwhile, in another pot, pour the egg yolks and sugar . Stir with a spatula, add the cornstarch , and stir again until you obtain a smooth consistency .
When the milk starts to boil , pour a small part of it into the pot with the yolks. Stir to temper the mixture, then add the remaining part, stir again , and bring everything back to the heat. Continue stirring with a whisk until the cream thickens.
Transfer to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap in contact with the surface , and let it cool first at room temperature and then in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour. After this time, whip the cream with electric beaters . Take 100 g of it and put it in a piping bag with a plain 10 mm nozzle. To the remaining cream, add 300 g of soy cream (the leftover soy cream will be used along with the 100 g of whipped cream for the final decoration) .
Mix with a whisk from bottom to top until you obtain a homogeneous consistency. Transfer into a piping bag with a plain nozzle and place in the fridge . At this point, take the sponge cake. Remove it from the mold and gently remove the parchment paper .
Then, using a long serrated knife, divide the sponge cake into 3 evenly thick discs . Fill the first disc with half of the soy milk diplomatic cream . Wash and pit the cherries , then cut them in half.
and arrange about 3/4 of them on the cream . The remaining ones will be used for decoration. Cover with the second layer of whole wheat sponge cake. Wash a peach well, cut it into thin slices .
Place the remaining chantilly cream on the second layer of sponge cake and add the peach slices on top . Cover with the last layer of sponge cake and cream .
Garnish with the remaining cherries, plums, and sliced peach . Finish with dollops of whipped cream and soy cream alternated with mint leaves . Refrigerate until it's time to serve your summer cake with whole wheat sponge cake .
You can store the summer cake with whole wheat sponge cake for 2 days in the refrigerator. If you prefer, you can prepare the sponge cake a day in advance, wrap it in plastic wrap, and leave it in the refrigerator.
Instead of peaches, plums, and cherries, you can use berries or strawberries. If you prefer, instead of fruit, you can add chocolate chips.

