name:
Fried mushrooms with beetroot mayonnaise
ingredients:
Champignon mushrooms: 5 ½cups(400 g)
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Eggs: 3
Whole milk: ¼cup(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Precooked beets: ½cup(100 g)
Soy milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Vegetable oil: ½cup(120 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Fresh ginger: 0.2oz(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the fried mushrooms with beetroot mayonnaise, start with the latter. If you don't want to stain your hands, use gloves, then peel the beetroot and cut it first into slices, then into strips, and finally into cubes . Put them in the bowl of a mixer along with the peeled ginger root ,
the soy milk , the lemon juice , and begin to blend while pouring the vegetable oil in a thin stream .
When you have obtained a smooth and fluid sauce, adjust the salt and set aside . Move on to the mushrooms. Cut off the earthy part of the stem and to clean them, use a damp cloth, trying to rub off the dirt. It is preferable not to wash the mushrooms because they absorb water .
Finally, slice them to a thickness of 1/8 to 3/16 inch . Crack the eggs into a bowl, add the milk, a pinch of salt , and beat lightly .
Then add the thyme leaves to the coarse breadcrumbs , mix this as well and move on to the breading. Dust the mushrooms first with flour , then dip them in the eggs
and finally in the breadcrumbs . Repeat this process for all and as you go, place the breaded mushrooms on a tray with parchment paper . When all are ready, cook a handful of mushrooms in a pot with hot oil at 340°F .
After about a couple of minutes, or when they are golden brown, drain them on paper towels . Add another pinch of salt and finally, plate your fried mushrooms with beetroot mayonnaise and enjoy your meal .
When you prepare the fried mushrooms with beetroot mayonnaise, it is best to consume everything immediately to appreciate the flavors and crispness. However, the fried mushrooms will still be crispy even after a few hours of rest. Alternatively, you might try warming them in a convection oven to dry any moisture that has formed inside the breading. The vegan mayonnaise can be stored in the fridge for up to 3 days.
Fried mushrooms with beetroot mayonnaise is the original appetizer you were looking for, but you can make small variations to make the dish even more special. Imagine, for example, using different varieties of mushrooms during their season or using breadcrumbs made from whole wheat bread for a more rustic flavor!

