name:
Focaccia with zucchini
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Water: 0.42cup(100 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.035oz(1 g)
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Water: ¾cup(200 g)
Fine salt: 1.7tsp(10 g)
Malt: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(4 g)
Zucchini: 0.8cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note more than 18 hours of rising

instructions:
To prepare the focaccia with zucchini, start with the poolish. Pour the flour into a bowl, add the water and the crumbled yeast . Mix with a spatula until the ingredients are combined .
Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and leave at room temperature for 12 hours. After this time , transfer the poolish to a larger bowl .
Add the water , the crumbled yeast , and mix with a spatula. Add the flour
and mix again with a spatula . When you have obtained a homogeneous mixture, add the malt and the oil .
Then add the salt and knead with your hands . Transfer onto a work surface and,
without adding flour, work it for about ten minutes until it becomes smooth. If it is too sticky, let the dough rest for a few minutes, then continue kneading. Shape the dough into a ball and transfer it to a large, lightly oiled bowl, preferably wooden. Cover with plastic wrap
and let rise for 3 hours at room temperature. When the dough is well-risen , transfer it to a pastry board. Give the dough a couple of strengthening folds and form it into a sort of loaf .
Transfer the dough onto a 15x11 inch sheet pan lightly greased, add a drizzle of oil on top , and let rest for 30 minutes . Meanwhile, wash the zucchini, trim it, and using a mandoline, cut it into slices about 1/16 inch thick .
Spread the dough with your hands to cover the entire surface of the pan. Wait another 30 minutes and garnish the surface with sliced zucchinis . Wait another 15 minutes,
add salt, pepper, and a drizzle of oil , then bake in a preheated ventilated oven at 410°F for 25 minutes. When it's nicely golden, take it out of the oven , wait a few minutes, and transfer it to a cooling rack . Let it cool slightly and serve!
The focaccia with zucchini can be kept for up to 2 days. We recommend reheating it before serving.
It can be frozen after being cooked.
Add some cheese like stracchino, taleggio, or pecorino before baking!
Prepare the poolish the night before so it will be easier to respect the rising times of the focaccia.

