name:
Lemon and basil granita with caramelized peaches
ingredients:
Water: 2 ½cups(600 g)- mineral
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Lemon juice: ½cup(120 g)
Basil: 4tbsp(12 g)
Yellow peaches: 3- (about 500 g)
Sugar: 6tbsp(75 g)
Basil: to taste
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note plus cooling times

instructions:
To prepare the granita, pour water and sugar into a saucepan . Give it a stir with the whisk and turn on the heat, the flame should be lively.
Bring the syrup to a boil and let it cook for a couple of minutes, stirring occasionally with a whisk. When the sugar is well dissolved, turn off the heat and let the syrup cool to room temperature. Transfer it to a tall container , cover with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator until it is completely cold.
At this point, quickly wash the basil and squeeze the lemons to obtain 120 g of juice, to be filtered. Take the cold syrup, add the basil , the lemon juice and blend everything with an immersion blender for 1-2 minutes .
You should obtain a bright green liquid mixture, without visible pieces of basil . Pour the mixture into a shallow and wide baking dish , cover with plastic wrap and place in the freezer.
Wait an hour and take the mixture from the freezer, as you can see, ice crystals will have formed. With a spoon, break the larger crystals and mix . Put it back in the freezer for another hour and repeat the same procedure at least 2 more times with the same timing , until it is completely solidified. When the granita is ready, move on to the peaches: wash them without drying and place them whole in a saucepan. Add 1 tablespoon of sugar to each peach
and cover them with basil leaves . Add a little water to create some steam inside the saucepan. Cover with a lid and cook for 35-45 minutes depending on the size of the peaches, over a lively flame.
As soon as they are ready, turn off the heat. Remove the basil and gently transfer only the peaches to a plate . Put the saucepan back on the heat
and as soon as the cooking syrup is reduced, transfer it to a small bowl and let it cool. As soon as the peaches have cooled, peel them using a small knife . Be careful to remove only the skin without affecting the fruit's flesh. As you go, place them on a cutting board and continue peeling the others. Now from each peach, cut slices .
At this point, everything is ready, you just need to plate. With a spoon, transfer 4 peach slices to the edge of the plate . Then, using a scoop without a spring or a spoon, scrape the granita . Gather it with the scoop, this time with a spring, and create a semi-sphere of granita ,
which you will place in the center of the peaches . Take the now cold syrup and with a spoon transfer a bit onto the peaches , avoiding putting it on the granita .
You can store the granita in the freezer for up to one month. Just scrape it when serving.
The peaches and syrup can be stored in the refrigerator well covered for up to one day.
For a fruit version of the granita, omit the basil and add a fruit puree made at home: simply blend 250 g of fruit pulp with 50 g of sugar. It is important that the syrup is very cold, so when you add the basil it will not oxidize and you will get a bright green!
Instead of basil, you can use sage or rosemary!


