name:
Sweet Stuffed Peppers
ingredients:
Sweet Peperoncinos: 1.1lbs(520 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Potatoes: 0.8cup(200 g)
Peeled plum tomatoes: ¾cup(180 g)
Breadcrumbs: 2 ½cups(150 g)
Black olives: 1.4oz(40 g)- pitted
Spring onions: 1
Lemon peel: 1
White wine: ½cup(100 g)
Parsley: 1tbsp(8 g)
Basil: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the sweet stuffed peppers, first take care of the filling. Boil the potato with the skin on until it's soft: cooking times vary depending on the size, check the consistency by piercing it with a fork. In the blender, add the olives, parsley, breadcrumbs , and chopped scallions .
Blend everything to obtain a homogeneous mixture . Transfer it to a large bowl and add flavor with lemon zest . At this point, also incorporate the well-drained ricotta .
In the meantime, the potato should be done cooking, peel it and put it in the blender , just a few spins of the blade will turn it into a puree . Then add the potato puree to the filling .
Mix to combine all the ingredients, add salt , pepper, and lastly the peeled cherry tomatoes, making sure to set aside their juice . Stir one last time and transfer the filling into a disposable piping bag without a nozzle .
Now wash and dry the peppers thoroughly, then remove the top and extract the seeds . Squeeze the filling into the sweet peppers until filled .
Proceed with cooking: heat the oil and garlic in a large pan, place the stuffed peppers , brown them for a few minutes, and then deglaze with white wine . Add the fragrance of fresh basil leaves .
Now pour in the juice from the peeled cherry tomatoes you set aside . Cover with a lid and cook on medium-low heat for about 30 minutes, shaking the pot occasionally. Once cooked, your sweet stuffed peppers will be ready to enjoy !
Sweet stuffed peppers can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you want a denser filling, just add an egg to the mixture.
The peeled tomatoes can be replaced with diced fresh cherry tomatoes.
If you are a fan of peppers, don't miss this preserve: Sweet and Sour Peppers !

