name:
Testaroli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2.4cups(300 g)
Water: 2cups(450 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Basil: 1.4oz(40 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the testaroli, start with the dressing: clean the basil leaves with a soft cloth and place them in the tall glass of a blender. Add the Parmesan and the oil .
Blend everything with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth mixture . Set aside and move on to the testaroli: heat a cast-iron skillet very well, over medium-low heat. Meanwhile, place the flour, salt in a large bowl.
and pour in the water gradually while stirring with a whisk . You should obtain a smooth and homogeneous batter . When the skillet is hot, grease it with a little oil spread with a paper towel .
Take a ladle of batter and pour it from the outer edge until it fills the whole pan evenly. The thickness of each testarolo should be between 1/8 and 3/16 inches. Let it cook for about 3-4 minutes, then use a spatula to flip it to the other side , cooking for about 1 minute. Gradually transfer the testaroli to a cutting board to cool them.
Once the batter is finished, cut the now cold testaroli first into strips , then into diamonds about 2 inches per side . Once ready, gradually revive the testaroli in salted boiling water for about 2-3 minutes . Prepare the serving plates by greasing the bottom with a little oil.
Drain the testaroli well onto the plate , dress them with a little more oil and sprinkle with the basil and cheese dressing . Serve the testaroli immediately!
Once revived in water, it's best to serve the testaroli immediately.
The testaroli, once formed in the pan, can be stored, once well-cooled, between sheets of parchment paper at room temperature for one day.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can also dress the testaroli simply with oil, basil, and grated cheese. You might also opt for butter and sage.
Tomato-based sauces, mushroom, or meat-based dressings are not recommended.

