name:
Grilled Mackerel with Citrus Sauce
ingredients:
Mackerel: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (2 whole, already gutted)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Grapefruit juice: 0.4cup(100 g)
Orange juice: 0.3cup(80 g)
Lemon juice: 4tbsp(60 g)
Grapefruit peel: 0.7oz(20 g)
Orange peel: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Lemon peel: 4 ½tsp(20 g)
Acacia honey: 1tbsp(20 g)
Mustard: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Cornstarch: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)
Parsley: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Radicchio: 10.5oz(300 g)
Balsamic vinegar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the grilled mackerel with citrus sauce, start with the sauce: grate the zest of the lemon, orange, and grapefruit , then extract the juice . In a small pot, combine the grated zest and the citrus juice .
Add the honey , mustard , and cornstarch .
Season with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley , then mix well . Heat and let thicken for about ten minutes, stirring constantly .
Set the sauce aside and focus on the radicchio: divide the heads into wedges about 1.25 inches thick . Heat the oil in a pan and place the radicchio , then brown on both sides over medium heat .
When it starts to crust, add salt, pepper , and balsamic vinegar ; cook the radicchio for a total of about 5 minutes. Once cooked, set the radicchio aside .
At this point, clean the mackerel: cut the fillets and remove the bones , then salt them on both sides .
Also, drizzle with a little oil . Heat a grill well, then place the mackerel fillets skin side down. Cook for 4-5 minutes on each side , or until the flesh becomes opaque and flakes easily .
Plate 2 mackerel fillets per person, alternating with the radicchio wedges , then drizzle with the sauce . Your grilled mackerel with citrus sauce is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the grilled mackerel with citrus sauce immediately. If necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day.
The citrus sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
If you use a cast iron grill, we recommend placing the mackerel fillets on a sheet of parchment paper during cooking to prevent the skin from breaking.
You can replace the radicchio with your preferred seasonal vegetables such as broccoli, fennel, spinach, or turnip greens!

