name:
Sausage and Bacon Skewers
ingredients:
Sausage: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Smoked pancetta: 3.2oz(90 g)- (8 slices)
Dijon mustard: 2spoonfuls
Acacia honey: 2spoonfuls
Tabasco®: to taste
Thyme: 3sprigs
Sage: 1sprig
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the marinating time

instructions:
To prepare the sausage and bacon skewers, start with the marinade. In a bowl, pour the oil, Dijon mustard , acacia honey , and a few drops of Tabasco .
Then finely chop thyme, sage, and rosemary leaves with a knife and add them to the mixture . Mix well to combine and move on to the sausages .
Remove the casing from the meat and then cut into pieces as thick as the skewers, obtaining 8 pieces . Skewer the sausages through the center
and place them in a baking dish, covering them with the marinade . Brush to ensure the sausages are completely coated with the mixture and cover with a sheet of plastic wrap. Let marinate for at least an hour in the refrigerator .
After the time has passed, retrieve the marinated sausages , place the first one on the cutting board, and roll it in a slice of smoked bacon . Repeat this for all, and as you go, place them on a grill set over a tray lined with parchment paper (to catch the dripping fat during cooking) .
Brush the surface with a bit of marinade and proceed to cooking. The sausage and bacon skewers cook in a static oven, preheated to 350°F, for 15 minutes, then switch to the fan setting and continue cooking for another 10 minutes or so at 430°F . Serve them piping hot !
Once the sausage and bacon skewers are ready, we recommend consuming them immediately as they may become too dry if stored. However, if you prefer, you can store them for a couple of days in the refrigerator. You can marinate the skewers for up to 4 hours, making sure to turn them occasionally. We do not recommend freezing for the same reasons.
The only thing missing is a dipping sauce for our sausage and bacon skewers, so how about a fresh sauce based on Greek yogurt? You might even think about adding chives and lemon zest to make it more tangy. If instead you're feeling more inclined towards a mock roast, reduce some currants with a pinch of sugar and white wine vinegar in a small pan!

