name:
Khachapuri
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)- warm
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Sugar: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1pinch
Provola cheese: 10.5oz(300 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 3 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + the dough rising time (at least 2 hours)

instructions:
To prepare the khachapuri, first pour the warm milk and the dry yeast into a bowl. Add the sugar to activate it and mix.
Add 2 tablespoons of flour and mix with a whisk , then cover with a dish towel . Let it rest for 5 minutes.
Then add the salt and the remaining flour . Mix again with the whisk until a homogeneous mixture is obtained.
Transfer the mixture to a work surface and knead it with a little flour until smooth . Then transfer it to a large bowl .
Cover and let rise for about 2 hours in a warm place . When the dough has risen well , transfer it to a work surface and divide it into 3 equal portions .
Take the first portion and form a ball , then do the same for the others and cover them with a dish towel .
Roll one out into a disc . Place the grated provolone on one of the two sides and then on the other .
Fold the edges by rolling the cheese inside , then pinch the ends .
You should form a boat shape . Place the boats on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and fill the inside with plenty of cheese .
Beat together egg yolk and milk and brush the khachapuri with the resulting mixture . Bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for 20-25 minutes. When they are golden brown, remove them from the oven and create a cavity in the center of the boat, gently moving the cheese aside with a fork.
Place a yolk inside and bake again for 3 minutes. Remove from the oven and serve your khachapuri hot !
Khachapuri can be stored in the refrigerator for up to a couple of days. We recommend reheating them before serving.
Add chopped chives to the cheese and replace the milk with traditional Russian kefir. If you wish, enhance the filling with bits of bacon!

