name:
Paccheri with Gurnard Sauce
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Gurnard: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (also called coccio)
Cherry tomatoes: 4cups(600 g)
Water: 3cups(700 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Basil: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the paccheri with gurnard sauce, start by cleaning the gurnard, previously gutted. Cut all the fins using a pair of scissors . Then heat a drizzle of oil in a large pot, along with a peeled garlic clove. Add the sliced chili pepper, seeds removed , and let it flavor for 3-4 minutes. Place the gurnard in the pot ,
100 grams of washed but whole cherry tomatoes and cover with water . Adjust the salt, and submerge the parsley
and cover with the lid, letting it cook on medium heat for about 30 minutes . As soon as the gurnard is cooked, drain it and clean it by removing the central bone and smaller ones . Break the flesh into coarse pieces and place the central spine and head back into the cooking broth; let it flavor .
Meanwhile, in another saucepan, pour a drizzle of oil and another garlic clove, then add the remaining 500 g of cherry tomatoes, also washed and whole . After a couple of minutes of sizzling, pour a ladleful of fish broth over the tomatoes, letting them cook for 5 minutes . At this point, add the gurnard pieces
along with the basil leaves . Stir and cover with the lid so the sauce doesn't dry out too much . In the meantime, cook the paccheri in boiling salted water
and halfway through, drain them into the sauce , adding water as needed to finish the cooking while gently stirring occasionally . Your paccheri with gurnard sauce are ready, just plate them and garnish with a bit of basil. Enjoy your meal !
It is recommended to consume the paccheri with gurnard sauce immediately as the pasta and fish texture might become mushy. Alternatively, you can store them for a couple of days at most, keeping the container in the refrigerator. Freezing is not recommended; however, you can freeze the gurnard broth if any remains from the preparation.
All that's left is to customize the broth for the paccheri with gurnard sauce using your choice of aromatic herbs! Thyme and dill would work well. If you want to add a fragrant note to the dish, grate a small amount of lemon zest before serving: you'll find it a delight!

