name:
Panna cotta with cherry tomato coulis
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Basil: 1bunch
Gelatin in sheets: 0.1oz(4 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
White pepper: to taste
Datterino tomatoes: 1cup(200 g)
Brown sugar: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)
Apple cider vinegar: 1tsp
Garlic: ½clove
Water: 4tbsp(60 g)
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus infusion and setting times

instructions:
To prepare the savory panna cotta with cherry tomato coulis, start with the panna cotta base. In a bowl, pour the cream , then break the basil leaves by hand and add the sprig as well . Mix well and cover with plastic wrap , leaving to infuse in the fridge for at least half an hour. After this time, the cream will have a pleasant basil aroma and flavor.
Soak the gelatin leaves in a bowl with cold water and meanwhile, heat the cream and basil by pouring the mixture into a saucepan . As soon as it reaches a simmer, strain the cream through a sieve
to retain the leaves and obtain only a liquid mixture . Drain the gelatin and add it to the cream , then also add the grated cheese .
Quickly stir to dissolve everything , then adjust with salt and white pepper. Transfer the mixture into 4 cups , place them on a tray , and transfer them to the fridge to set for about an hour.
Meanwhile, prepare the tomato coulis. Wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half with a knife . In a saucepan, heat a drizzle of oil with half a clove of garlic, peeled and with the core removed . As soon as the base is hot, remove the garlic and add the cherry tomatoes.
Let them heat for a minute over medium heat, then deglaze with apple cider vinegar . Once evaporated, add the brown sugar , salt, and mix .
Then add the water . Let it cook for 5 minutes over medium heat . Then pass it through a food mill
transfer back into the saucepan and cook for a few minutes until it becomes thicker . Let it cool slightly and pour over the semi-set panna cotta . Place back in the fridge for another couple of hours. When serving, garnish with basil leaves .
The savory panna cotta with tomato coulis can be stored in the fridge for up to 2-3 days. The cream and basil infusion can be kept in the fridge for up to 24 hours. Freezing is not recommended.
If you notice lumps in your savory panna cotta with tomato coulis, put it back on the heat for a few moments, stirring with a whisk or blending with an immersion blender. Datterino tomatoes are quite sweet, so if you prefer a more pronounced flavor, just change the variety and opt, for example, for cherry tomatoes. If you don't have a food mill, you can blend everything, but it may turn quite orange, which is normal. However, if you really don't like the color, add some tomato paste to improve it.

