name:
Marinated Tofu and Vegetable Skewers
ingredients:
Tofu: 10.6oz(300 g)
Red peppers: 3.2oz(90 g)
Yellow peppers: 3.25oz(90 g)
Cucumbers: 2.5oz(70 g)
Soy sauce: 3.3tbsp(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Honey: 1spoonful
Tabasco®: to taste
Greek yogurt: 0.6cup(150 g)
Chives: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 6 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low
Note the cooking time refers to a single skewer

instructions:
To prepare the marinated tofu and vegetable skewers, first cut the tofu into cubes of about 3/4 inch . Transfer the cubes to a baking dish and add the marinade ingredients: the soy sauce , the oil ,
the juice of half a lemon , the Tabasco , and the honey .
Mix everything together and cover the baking dish with plastic wrap. Let it marinate while you proceed with the rest of the preparation . To make the sauce, pour the Greek yogurt into a small bowl and add the juice of half a lemon and the chives .
Add salt, pepper , and stir with a teaspoon to obtain a smooth sauce .
At this point, clean the red and yellow bell peppers and cut them into pieces about 3/4 inch wide . For the cucumber, use a vegetable peeler to get thin slices . Now take skewers about 10 inches long and assemble the skewers, alternating the tofu cubes with the bell pepper pieces and cucumber slices, which should be folded onto themselves . Retain the marinade liquid.
Heat a grill well and place the skewers on it, drizzling them with the marinade liquid . Cook the skewers for a total of 6 minutes, turning them on all sides . Once cooked, serve your marinated tofu and vegetable skewers immediately, accompanied by the yogurt sauce !
It is recommended to eat the marinated tofu and vegetable skewers immediately.
You can vary the vegetables according to your taste by using, for example, zucchini, champignon mushrooms, or, why not, pineapple cubes!
If you like, you can replace the tofu with Red lentil lentil tofu , a delicious homemade legume-based alternative.

