name:
Baked Zucchini Rolls
ingredients:
Zucchini: 1lb(450 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Capers in vinegar: 5
Caciocavallo cheese: 4.5oz(130 g)
Red onions: ½
Breadcrumbs: 0.3cup(40 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the baked zucchini rolls, first wash and dry the zucchini, then trim them and slice them lengthwise , they should be about 1/8 inch thick. Cut the leftover edges into small cubes . Place a grill pan on the heat, and when it's very hot, lay the zucchini on it .
Grill them on both sides just enough to create the typical grill marks . As they are ready, set them aside to cool. Drain the sun-dried tomatoes and capers and chop them with a knife . Clean and chop the red onion as well .
Grate the cheese with a wide-mesh grater . Heat a pan with a little oil, add the chopped onion . Sauté over low heat for 6-7 minutes. When the onion is well softened, add the zucchini cubes and the thyme leaves. Continue cooking over moderate heat for a few minutes.
Now add the capers and sun-dried tomatoes in oil. Adjust with salt and pepper, then turn off the heat and incorporate the grated cheese . Mix and scent the filling with lemon zest .
Finally, add the breadcrumbs , mix one last time and set aside the filling. Everything is ready to assemble your rolls: take a grilled zucchini and lay it on a cutting board .
Spread the filling along the zucchini and roll it up on itself to form the roll. Skewer the roll with a toothpick to prevent it from unrolling .
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper, place the rolls on top , cover the surface with the remaining filling , and drizzle with a little olive oil. Bake in a preheated oven at 392°F for 10 minutes. Once cooked, take the rolls out of the oven and let them cool slightly before serving.
Baked zucchini rolls can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days; reheat them in the oven for a few minutes before serving. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of caciocavallo cheese, you can use Parmesan, Pecorino, or even smoked or mild provolone cheese.

