name:
Cold Watermelon Jelly Cake
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 2cups(240 g)
Butter: 0.67cup(160 g)
Mint: to taste- to garnish the surface
Cream cheese: 1.9cups(450 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Greek yogurt: 0.6cup(150 g)
Powdered sugar: 6 ½tbsp(50 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.5oz(14 g)
Chocolate drops: 1.75oz(50 g)
Watermelon: 2.6lbs(1.2 kg)
Cornstarch: 4 ½tbsp(35 g)
Sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1- tip of a teaspoon

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the cold watermelon jelly cake, start by lining the base of a 9-inch mold with parchment paper, both at the base and around the circumference. Melt the butter in the microwave or on the stove, and in the meantime, pour the cookies into the mixer . Activate the blades to obtain a sandy mixture, transfer it to a bowl, and pour the butter . Stir with the spoon
and pour into a 9-inch mold lined with parchment paper , level carefully with the back of the spoon . Meanwhile, focus on the cream, leave the ingredients out of the fridge, and soak the gelatin in cold water .
Then pour the cream into a bowl and operate the whisk at medium-high speed while pouring the sugar in little by little . Gradually increase the speed and whip until almost stiff; set aside . Heat the yogurt in a saucepan, without bringing it to a boil .
As soon as it is warm, drain the gelatin and dip it into the saucepan, stir until completely dissolved and turn off the burner . Let it cool for a few minutes, in the meantime, pour the cream cheese into a large bowl and work it with a spatula .
Combine the yogurt with the dissolved gelatin , mix, and then gently fold in the cream . Finally, add the chocolate chips, keeping a handful aside for decoration .
Transfer the cream into the mold , level to obtain a smooth surface , and let it set in the fridge for at least 1 hour .
Meanwhile, prepare the watermelon jelly, cut the fruit into slices , remove the rind , and get large pieces. Pour them into the mixer and activate the blades until you obtain a puree .
Filter everything through a sieve placed over a bowl and sift carefully to discard unfiltered pulp and seeds . You should obtain 2 cups of juice.
Pour the juice into a saucepan and add the sugar , cinnamon
and, while stirring with the whisk, also pour in the cornstarch . Mix well to avoid lumps and then place the saucepan on the flame. Cook at medium-high temperature until you have obtained a sauce like custard . Transfer to a bowl and let cool completely, stirring occasionally to prevent a skin from forming on the surface .
As soon as it is at room temperature, the first hour of the cake's setting should have passed, pour the watermelon jelly over the surface . Level and garnish with the remaining chocolate chips, put it back in the fridge for at least another 3 hours .
After the time has passed, detach the mold and the parchment paper , place the cake on the serving plate, and garnish the circumference by overlapping mint leaves, they will resemble the fruit's rind . Here is your cold watermelon jelly cake, serve it very cold !
The cold watermelon jelly cake can be stored in the fridge for 3 days, better if covered with plastic wrap or a cake dome. Freezing is not recommended if you've poured the watermelon jelly, alternatively, you can freeze it. The watermelon jelly can be stored in the fridge for 2-3 days but not in the freezer.
Instead of chocolate chips, you can add chopped chocolate, which will make the filling and surface of your cold watermelon jelly cake much crispier. Garnish the surface with chopped pistachios or mint leaves.

