name:
‘Mpanate filled with caponata
ingredients:
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(15 g)
Fine salt: 2 ½tsp(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Water: 2.1cups(500 g)
Eggplant: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Celery: 0.9lb(400 g)
White onions: 9oz(250 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 10.5oz(300 g)
Green olives in brine: 7oz(200 g)- to pit
Salted capers: 1.8oz(50 g)- desalted
Pine nuts: 1.75oz(50 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
White wine vinegar: 4tbsp(60 g)
Basil: to taste
Tomato paste: 3.3tbsp(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 1 h 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + resting and cooling times

instructions:
To prepare the ‘mpanate filled with caponata, start with the leavened dough. In a large bowl, pour the flour, crumble the brewer's yeast , and add the water gradually while kneading with one hand . Continue working and add the salt ,
then the oil , and finally transfer the mixture to the work surface. Knead for a few minutes until the dough is compact and soft . Transfer it to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let it rise for about 3 hours at a temperature of 79 – 82°F .
In the meantime, prepare the caponata. After washing and drying the eggplants, remove the tops and cut them into irregular pieces of about an inch . Fry the pieces a little at a time in plenty of olive oil , draining them as soon as they turn golden .
Meanwhile, heat a drizzle of oil in a saucepan and stew the peeled and thinly sliced onions for a few minutes . Once soft, add the thinly sliced celery, desalted capers, and pitted olives . Also, add the toasted pine nuts ,
the cleaned and chunkily cut tomatoes , and cover with the lid, letting it cook gently for about 20 minutes . When it's almost done cooking, prepare the sweet and sour sauce. In a container, pour the wine vinegar, tomato paste ,
and sugar . Stir and pour it into the pan , adjust the salt and cook a few more minutes, just enough time for the vinegar to evaporate. Turn off the heat and add the fried eggplants and hand-torn basil. Mix and let cool completely .
Once the caponata is well cooled and the dough is ready, you can move on to composing your ‘mpanate. Divide the dough first into 4 pieces and then in half again, obtaining a total of 8 pieces .
Take the first piece and form a ball , then, using a rolling pin, roll it out to obtain a disc with a thickness of about 1/5 inch .
On one half of the disc, place a few spoonfuls of caponata, leaving about an inch from the edge . Then fold it in half like a half-moon and pinch the edges
creating a small scalloped pattern . Place on a sheet of parchment paper, prick with a fork , and brush with plenty of oil .
Repeat to make another piece and proceed with baking . The ‘mpanate bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 30 minutes. Once the first two are done, continue with all the others . Here are your ‘mpanate filled with caponata, ready to enjoy !
The ‘mpanate filled with caponata can be stored for 1 day in the refrigerator; however, the consistency may become too moist due to the seasoning. Remember to keep the dough always covered with the bowl to prevent it from drying out while you work and bake the first ‘mpanate. Freezing is not recommended.
These ‘mpanate filled with caponata are already so rich that it seems difficult to add anything that could make them better. Yet we assure you that adding thinly sliced caciocavallo cheese will bring you to the apex of pleasure. If you take them to the beach, make sure to keep them out of the water for 3 hours.

