name:
Baked Peach Jam
ingredients:
Peach: 4.5lbs(2 kg)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Lemon juice: ⅛cup(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 80
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare baked peach jam, first make sure you have new lids and sanitized jars (following the guidelines from the Ministry of Health provided at the end of the recipe). Then wash the peaches, cut them in half using a knife and separate the halves , removing the pit. Then peel them
and cut them into pieces, transferring them into a baking tray . Add the sugar and lemon juice .
Stir everything and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 2 hours. At this point , transfer to a bowl and blend with an immersion blender .
Fill the jars and seal them by screwing the lid tightly . Then turn the jar upside down and let it cool completely. If the jam is still hot, the vacuum will be created automatically; otherwise, for safety, you can place them in a pot with water (about a quarter-inch from the lid) and bring everything to a boil. Before consumption , make sure the vacuum has been created by pressing the lid in the center: if you hear a click-clack, it means that the vacuum has not been properly formed, and the jam cannot be consumed.
Baked peach jam can be stored in the pantry for up to 5 months. Before consuming, we recommend always checking that the vacuum seal has been maintained. Homemade jams containing a lower percentage of sugar than the overall weight of the fruit have shorter shelf lives compared to those with an equal amount of sugar and fruit, which can last up to a year. Once opened, store the jam in the refrigerator and consume it within 3 weeks.
Flavor the jam with your favorite spices!
Homemade preparation of preserves and jams can pose health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures can provide to prevent dangerous contamination. Therefore, it is important to scrupulously follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it must always be remembered that the same level of food safety as commercially produced preserves and jams can never be achieved. For proper preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the guidelines from the Ministry of Health .

