name:
Whole Wheat Tart
ingredients:
Whole grain flour: 3 ⅓cups(400 g)
Type 00 flour: 3.5oz(100 g)
Butter: 7oz(200 g)
Brown sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (approximately 2)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Peach jam: 1cup(250 g)
Brown sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note plus the resting time for the shortcrust (30 min.)

instructions:
To prepare the whole wheat tart, first cut the cold butter into cubes. Place it in the bowl of a planetary mixer fitted with a paddle, add the sugar and salt . Work the mixture until you get a cream. Then add the eggs ,
the cinnamon and work until fully absorbed. Meanwhile, mix the whole wheat flour and all-purpose flour in a bowl, then reduce the speed of the mixer and also add the flours . Let them absorb as well .
When you have obtained a homogeneous mixture, transfer it onto a work surface and work briefly, just enough to compact the pastry and obtain a dough . Wrap in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes.
At this point, take the shortcrust pastry, divide it in half and roll it out on a lightly floured surface . You should obtain a disc about 1/4 inch thick . Transfer it to a 12-inch pan (no need to grease it). Shape the pastry with your hands to adhere well to the pan, then use a rolling pin to press the surface to remove excess pastry and mix it with the reserved pastry, kneading briefly. If it's very hot, you can store the pastry in the refrigerator.
Once you have trimmed the edge well , pour the jam inside and spread it with the back of a spoon to cover the entire surface . Take the pastry and roll it out to obtain another disc about 1/4 inch thick. For ease, you can roll it out on a parchment paper sheet.
This way it will be easier to lift the disc and place it over the tart. Trim the excess pastry with a small knife and use your fingers to seal the edges. Prick the surface of the tart with a fork
and sprinkle the surface with brown sugar . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F on the middle rack for 40 minutes. When it's golden, remove the tart from the oven and let it cool completely before removing from the pan and serving.
You can store the whole wheat tart for 3 days at room temperature under a glass dome.
Replace the peach jam with your favorite or seasonal one, homemade is definitely the best!
You can also flavor the pastry with lemon or orange zest!
• How can you easily remove the tart from the pan?
You can flip it without problems once it's cold, or you can opt to line the pan with parchment paper: this will make everything easier!
• How can you replace cinnamon?
You can opt for cloves, nutmeg, cardamom... or orange or lemon zest as an alternative!
• What if you use granulated sugar?
Raw brown sugar helps to achieve a more rustic taste, but you can equally use granulated sugar in the same amounts.
• How can you proceed without a planetary mixer?
The whole wheat shortcrust pastry can be made by hand, quickly kneading the ingredients to avoid overheating the butter.
• How do I store the other half of the pastry for the top while filling the base?
You can keep it covered with plastic wrap on the workbench, but if it's too hot, we recommend storing it in the fridge until ready to use.

