name:
Caponata cups with tuna and tzatziki
ingredients:
Eggplant: 3.5oz(100 g)
Spring onions: 3.5oz(100 g)- from Tropea
Celery: 1.4oz(40 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 5.3oz(150 g)
Green olives: 2.1oz(60 g)- pitted
Salted capers: 1tsp(5 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Apple cider vinegar: 2spoonfuls
Brown sugar: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1tsp
Black pepper: 1tsp
Tuna filet: 8.5oz(240 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Salt: 1tsp
Greek yogurt: 0.67cup(150 g)
Cucumbers: 0.3cup(50 g)
Basil: 0.7oz(20 g)
Pistachios: 1tbsp(10 g)
Peeled almonds: 0.8tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the caponata cups with tuna and tzatziki, start with the caponata. Cut off the top of the eggplant, slice it and cut into 1/2-inch cubes . Heat a pan with some oil and fry the cubes for about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally .
As soon as they are toasted, drain them on absorbent paper . In the same pan, add another drizzle of oil and heat together with the garlic cloves, cleaned and finely sliced spring onions , cherry tomatoes halved .
Season with salt and pepper and brown sugar . Stir and let the sugar dissolve, then deglaze with vinegar. Let it cook gently for 5 minutes .
Meanwhile, finely chop the desalted capers and pitted green olives, set aside for a moment . Do the same with almonds and pine nuts and toast them in another pan, being very careful not to burn them .
Set these aside too and finally prepare the celery. Peel it superficially with a vegetable peeler to remove the strings . Finally, cut into slices . At this point, the cherry tomatoes should be cooked, turn off the heat, discard the garlic ,
and add the eggplant cubes . Also add the celery , chopped olives and capers ,
stir and let cool . In the meantime, prepare the tuna. Cut it into strips and then into very small cubes .
Gather the pieces in a bowl and grate lemon zest , add flaked salt and mix . Move on to the tzatziki. In a bowl, pour in the Greek yogurt, hand-torn basil, lemon juice .
Add 2/3 of the toasted almond and pistachio mix . Then thinly slice the cucumber, cut the slices into quarters, thus obtaining 4 triangles and add to the mixture. Mix gently .
Now you have everything ready, proceed with the composition. At the bottom of a glass, first pour the caponata, then the tuna , the Greek yogurt and some of the toasted nut mix . Continue this way with all the others and your caponata cups with tuna and tzatziki are ready to be served with a nice sprig of basil !
Any type of storage is discouraged once the caponata cups with tuna and tzatziki are ready. If you prefer, you can prepare the caponata in advance and store it for a couple of days.
The caponata cups with tuna and tzatziki only lack a note of spiciness: add a few drops of Tabasco to the marinated tuna. Vary the nuts according to your taste: hazelnuts, walnuts, and even pecans. If you miss sesame in your tuna, you just need to toast some seeds, light or dark, and always add them during the marination phase.
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at -0.4°F in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

