name:
Summer Zucchini Pizzas
ingredients:
Zucchini: 1lb(450 g)
Potato starch: ¾cup(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Eggs: 1
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Tomato purée: ½cup(120 g)
Eggplant: 1.75oz(50 g)
Yellow peppers: 0.3cup(50 g)
Zucchini: ½cup(60 g)
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1.8oz(50 g)
Red onions: ½
Smoked scamorza cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)
Taggiasca olives: 0.7oz(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 9 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Wash and trim the zucchini , then grate them with a coarse grater . Gather them in a bowl and add an egg .
Continue by adding salt and pepper, then add the potato starch, Parmesan , and a handful of torn basil leaves .
Mix the ingredients , then form round patties about 5-6 inches in diameter by pressing the mixture onto baking trays lined with parchment paper and lightly oiled (8-9). With these amounts, you will get 9 mini pizzas. Bake them in a static oven preheated to 356°F for about 8 minutes.
Now prepare the toppings: in a bowl, pour the tomato sauce, season it with oil and salt , and mix. Wash the vegetables and then slice the zucchini into rounds and the eggplants into slices .
Remove the seeds and internal filaments of the bell pepper and cut it into strips . Heat a grill and when it’s hot, place the vegetables and grill them for a few minutes, until the typical grill marks appear .
Cut the mozzarella into pieces and drain it through a sieve . Now wash and quarter the cherry tomatoes .
Peel and thinly slice the red onion . Finally, cut the smoked cheese into very thin slices as well . Take the pre-cooked zucchini mini pizzas and top 3 of them only with tomato sauce, another 3 with tomato sauce and mozzarella .
and the cherry tomatoes . Finally, top the last 3 with smoked cheese , onions, and olives .
Add salt and pepper and bake in a preheated oven at 356°F for 15 minutes, plus another two minutes on grill setting. Remove the mini pizzas from the oven and top only those with sauce with the previously grilled vegetables . Garnish with fresh basil and drizzle with a little olive oil. The zucchini mini pizzas are ready to be enjoyed !
You can store the zucchini mini pizzas in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can make one large zucchini pizza by spreading the dough over the entire baking sheet. It will be perfect to cut into slices and share with friends!

