name:
Chestnut Cookies
ingredients:
Gluten free chestnut flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Gluten free unsweetened cocoa powder: 2tsp(5 g)
Gluten free rice flour: ¼cup(50 g)
Gluten free powdered sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)
Baking soda: 1tsp(4 g)
Gluten free almond milk: 0.1cup(35 g)- (no added sugars)
Sunflower seed oil: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (about 1 medium)
Dark chocolate 70%: 3.5oz(100 g)- for the coating

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 25
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the chestnut cookies, start by mixing the powders in a bowl. So chestnut flour , rice flour , put a sieve and add the powdered sugar ,
the unsweetened cocoa powder and the baking soda . Mix with your hands to even out ,
then also add the eggs , the oil , and the milk .
Continue kneading until the mixture becomes compact , transfer it to the work surface and knead for a few more moments to make everything uniform . Preheat the oven and in the meantime tear off pieces of dough to form 25 balls of about 0.5 oz each .
Shape them to form a kind of drop , the base of which is round and wide while the tip is narrower and finer. As you go, place the pieces on a baking sheet and bake in static mode at 392°F for about 9-10 minutes .
As soon as they are cooked, let them cool completely on a wire rack . Melt the chocolate in a bain-marie , pour it into a narrow glass, and dip the cookies leaving the base uncovered, just like a chestnut .
Place on the rack and repeat for all the others . Once ready, let them set in the fridge for half an hour before enjoying them . Here are your chestnut cookies ready !
The chestnut cookies keep for 3-4 days, better if in a cool place and closed in a tin box. Freezing is not recommended. The raw dough can be frozen or stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
The chestnut cookies can be made gluten-free and lactose-free. Just always choose products that display the crossed-out spike and the specific lactose-free indication. The addition of cocoa will make the chestnut cookies tastier and keep the right color. If you prefer, you can substitute almond milk with rice or cow's milk, the result will be the same. You can flavor the dough with vanilla or grated orange zest. Finally, you can increase or decrease the amount of cocoa or chocolate to achieve interesting and tasty coatings.

