name:
Eggplants stuffed with bulgur
ingredients:
Eggplant: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Thyme: 8sprigs
Rosemary: 4sprigs
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp
Black pepper: 1tsp
Bulgur: 0.56cup(100 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 0.6lb(250 g)
Cucumbers: ½cup(50 g)
Feta cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)
Celery: 1oz(25 g)
Basil: 10leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: ½tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the eggplants stuffed with bulgur, first prepare the eggplants: trim them and cut them in half lengthwise , then score the flesh deeply with the blade of a knife creating a sort of checkerboard but being careful not to cut through the skin . Rub the surface of the eggplants with the garlic clove .
Season with salt , pepper, and oil and place the thyme and rosemary sprigs on top . Initially cook the eggplants for 20 minutes in a preheated static oven at 428°F.
Meanwhile, wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them into quarters , peel the cucumbers and cut them into cubes and do the same with the celery . Collect the vegetables in a bowl and set them aside.
After the 20 minutes of cooking the eggplants, remove the aromatic herbs , cover with aluminum foil , and bake again for another 10 minutes: the eggplants will cook for a total of 30 minutes. In the meantime, boil the bulgur in salted boiling water and cook it for about 10 minutes, or for the time indicated on the package.
Once cooked, the eggplants will be very soft : remove the pulp with the help of a spoon, collecting it in a bowl , and set aside the shells. At this point, add the eggplant pulp to the diced vegetables that you cut earlier .
Add the basil leaves (set some aside for garnish) and the drained bulgur . Finally, season with a drizzle of oil and mix well to combine everything.
Fill the hollowed eggplants with the bulgur and vegetable stuffing , then add the crumbled feta and a grind of pepper: your eggplants stuffed with bulgur are ready to be served !
The eggplants stuffed with bulgur can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
If you wish, you can enrich the stuffing with dried fruit like almonds or pine nuts. Alternatively to bulgur, you can use couscous or, for a gluten-free version, quinoa.

