name:
Mille-feuille of Caponata
ingredients:
Guttiau bread: 12- sheets
Salted ricotta cheese: 3oz(80 g)
Basil: to taste
Eggplant: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Celery: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 7oz(200 g)
White onions: 4.25oz(120 g)
Green olives in brine: 130- pitted
Salted capers: 2tbsp(40 g)
Pine nuts: 3tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
White wine vinegar: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Tomato paste: 2 ¾tbsp(40 g)
Sugar: 3 ½tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + resting time

instructions:
To prepare the mille-feuille of caponata, start with the caponata itself. Our advice is to prepare it the day before. Clean the onion and slice it thinly , then slice the celery , and finally cut the tomato into large pieces
Place the pine nuts in a pan and toast them until golden, then set them aside . Move to the stove and start cooking the caponata. In a pot, heat a drizzle of oil, add the onions, and let them soften for a few minutes over low heat, then add the celery and let it brown . It's time to add the desalted capers
the pitted olives and the toasted pine nuts . Then add the tomatoes and a pinch of salt ,
give it a good stir, and cover with a lid . Let it cook for about 15 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the sweet and sour sauce by mixing vinegar, tomato paste , and sugar in a bowl. Mix well .
As soon as the seasoning is ready, pour the sweet and sour sauce into the pot, keeping some aside for the final decoration , turn off the heat, and add hand-torn basil leaves . Stir and let it cool, then refrigerate overnight. This way, the flavors will blend nicely. After the time has passed, thinly slice the salted ricotta
and move on to the eggplants. After washing and drying them, trim and thinly slice them . Then immerse a few slices at a time in a pot full of boiling oil , as soon as they are golden, drain them on absorbent paper and let them cool .
Then move on to the assembly. On the serving plate, place a sheet of guttiau bread, a few spoonfuls of caponata in the middle , then some slices of fried eggplant , the salted ricotta, and basil leaves
and repeat. Then guttiau bread , eggplants , caponata, and basil .
Finish with another layer of bread and garnish with a few basil leaves and the remaining sweet and sour sauce. We chose to use a squeeze bottle, but a parchment paper cone or directly a teaspoon will work . Your mille-feuille of caponata is ready: enjoy !
Once the mille-feuille of caponata is assembled, it is recommended to consume it immediately and not store it for too long, as the guttiau bread easily absorbs liquids, becoming soft.
Add a spicy touch to your mille-feuille of caponata by seasoning it with a few drops of Tabasco.

