name:
Easy and Quick Financiers with Strawberry Gelée
ingredients:
Powdered sugar: ½cup(70 g)
Almond flour: 4tbsp(30 g)
Type 00 flour: 1oz(30 g)
Egg whites: 2oz(55 g)
Butter: 2oz(55 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Strawberry syrup: 0.8cup(200 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
Lemon juice: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Fresh liquid cream: to taste
Lavender flowers: to taste- (dehydrated)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 24 pieces

instructions:
To prepare the financiers with strawberry gelée, start by melting the butter over low heat and then let it cool. Beat the egg whites with powdered sugar using an electric mixer . Once they become slightly frothy, add the almond flour and all-purpose flour .
Also pour in the cooled melted butter and continue to work with the beaters. Flavor with the lemon zest and mix with a spatula. Pour the batter into mini sphere silicone molds using a teaspoon . Bake in a static oven at 350°F (rounded from 180°C) for about 20 minutes. Once ready, remove from the oven and let cool.
Prepare the gelée: in a small bowl, pour cold water and soak the gelatin sheets for at least 10 minutes . Heat the strawberry syrup in a saucepan , add the lemon juice , and as soon as it reaches just below boiling, turn off the heat.
Then gently squeeze the gelatin and pour it into the saucepan . Stir with a whisk to completely dissolve the gelatin , then pour the mixture into a silicone mold with half-spheres of the same size as the pastries .
Transfer to the fridge and let set for at least 3 hours. Unmold the now cold pastries and cut off the tops with a serrated knife , unmold your gelées .
Place each gelatin sphere on top of the financiers . Whip the cream with well-chilled beaters and bowl , place it in a piping bag .
Garnish the financiers with strawberry gelée with cream and dehydrated flowers . You can serve your financiers with strawberry gelée !
You can store the financiers without gelée for 1-2 days under a glass dome.
You can store decorated financiers for 2-3 days in the refrigerator, preferably without cream.
You can freeze the financiers without the gelatin filling.
You can store the gelatin spheres in the fridge for about 1 week.
Replace almond flour with hazelnut flour, and to make the gelatin spheres original, you can insert small mint leaves inside the spheres before placing them in the fridge.

