name:
Savory Pie with Potatoes, Mushrooms, and Scamorza
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Water: ⅓cup(70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Potatoes: 0.55lb(250 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 3cups(200 g)
Zucchini: 2.1oz(60 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 2.5oz(70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + 1 hour of dough resting time

instructions:
To make the rustic pie with potatoes, mushrooms, and scamorza, pour the flour, olive oil , salt , and water into a bowl.
Work the dough by hand until you get a well-compact dough ball. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest for an hour . In the meantime, prepare the filling: clean the mushrooms and slice them .
Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan , add the mushrooms , sauté them for a couple of minutes, then add the parsley and cook them for 6-7 minutes.
Wash and slice the zucchinis , heat another drizzle of olive oil in a different pan, add the zucchinis and cook them for about ten minutes .
Now incorporate the cooked zucchinis with the mushrooms and set aside. Peel and cut the potatoes into cubes of about 3/4 inch , blanch them in salted water for about 6 minutes .
After cooking, drain the potatoes and add them to the rest of the filling . Finish by dicing the scamorza and cutting the cooked ham into strips .
Season the filling with the scamorza , ham, and grated cheese . Mix the filling and set it aside .
Butter and flour a 13.75 x 4.25 in tart pan . Take your dough ball and roll it out with a rolling pin to a thickness of about 1/5 inch. Lay the dough sheet on the pan and press lightly to make it adhere to the bottom and edges.
Prick the bottom with a fork and fill with the previously prepared filling, distributing it evenly . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 35 minutes. When cooking is complete, take out the rustic pie with potatoes, mushrooms, and scamorza and enjoy it after it has cooled slightly.
The rustic pie with potatoes, mushrooms, and scamorza can be stored for 2-3 days in the refrigerator. It can be frozen after cooking if you used fresh ingredients.
If you don't have this specific pan, you can use a round mold with a 10-inch diameter, keeping the doses unchanged.

