name:
Perfect tricolor sandwiches for lunch
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1cup(200 g)
Water: 0.85cup(200 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: ½tsp(3 g)
Type 00 flour: 6cups(800 g)
Water: 1 ½cup(360 g)
Malt: 0.3oz(8 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.4oz(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: 5tsp(30 g)
Basil: 1.5oz(42 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(35 g)
Paprika: 2tsp(10 g)- powdered
Water: 0.7oz(20 g)
Type 00 flour: 2tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus the maturation and rising times (about 28 hours)

instructions:
To prepare the tricolor sandwiches, first make the poolish. Dissolve the yeast in room temperature water , add it to the flour , and mix with your hands until smooth. Cover with plastic wrap and leave it at room temperature for 1 hour. Then refrigerate for 23 hours.
After 23 hours, take the poolish out and leave it for 1 hour at room temperature . At this point, pour the well-cleaned basil leaves into a blender, add the oil , and blend everything .
Now make the dough. Pour the flour into the bowl of a stand mixer, add the crumbled fresh yeast and the malt . Add the water and start mixing with the dough hook. Add the poolish
and mix at moderate speed until it's completely absorbed. Then add the oil gradually , and the salt
and continue to mix until the dough is well combined . Transfer it to a work surface and form it into a ball .
Then divide the dough into 3 parts of 540 g . Take one part, shape it into a sphere, place it in a bowl , and cover it with plastic wrap. Take another part and add the basil sauce
and knead it with your hands . Then add the 35 g of all-purpose flour and knead again .
Place it in a bowl and cover it with plastic wrap. Move on to the last dough. In a small bowl, pour the paprika and water . Stir with a spoon
and transfer it onto the dough . Knead with your hands , then add the 15 g of flour
and knead again . Place it in a bowl and cover it with plastic wrap. Let the 3 doughs rise for 3-4 hours, until they have doubled in volume .
At this point, divide each dough into 6 portions of 90 g and form them into balls . If needed to form the green balls, you can add a pinch of flour, but do not overdo it. Cover with a tea towel to avoid drying out the balls and take one of each color. Shape the red one into a log first ,
then place a white log next to it , and finally a green one. Pinch the ends together with your fingers to seal well . Place on a baking sheet and continue shaping the other sandwiches .
Let rise for 30 minutes, covering with a tea towel . Bake in a preheated static oven at 428°F (220°C) for 30 minutes on the middle rack. Remove the sandwiches from the oven when they are well browned , transfer them to a wire rack , and let them cool slightly before enjoying.
The tricolor sandwiches can be stored for 2-3 days in a paper bag. Once baked, they can be frozen.
You can enrich your sandwiches with sesame seeds, sunflower seeds, or even pumpkin seeds. Just moisten the sandwiches by spraying a little water on top before sprinkling them with the seeds.

