name:
Chicken Souvlaki
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.4lbs(650 g)- whole
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Fine salt: 1tsp
Black pepper: 1tsp
Smoked paprika: 1tsp
Oregano: 1tsp
Lemons: 1- zest and juice
Greek yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Cucumbers: 0.7cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Fine salt: ½tsp
Black pepper: ½tsp
Potatoes: 5.25oz(150 g)
Red onions: 1.8oz(50 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 5.3oz(150 g)
Cucumbers: ½cup(100 g)
Coriander: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the chicken souvlaki, first prepare the meat: halve the chicken breast and remove any small bones and cartilage , then cut it into cubes about 3/4 inch thick . Transfer the cubes to a baking dish and add the marinade ingredients: oil , salt, black pepper,
smoked paprika , oregano , the crushed garlic clove ,
the lemon zest and juice . Mix well, cover with plastic wrap and let marinate at room temperature.
In the meantime, prepare the side dish: clean and thinly slice the red onion using a mandoline , then do the same with the potato, without peeling it . Transfer the potato and onion slices to a bowl and season with oil
and salt . Mix well and spread them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper . Bake in a fan oven at 428°F for 20 minutes .
While the potatoes are baking, you can prepare the tzatziki: slice the cucumber thinly, then quarter the slices . Pour the Greek yogurt into a bowl, add the cucumbers , and season with oil ,
salt, and pepper . Mix well and set aside for now .
At this point, take the marinated chicken cubes and skewer them onto wooden skewers . Heat a grill well and cook the skewers for 3 minutes on each side until they are nicely golden . Finally, cut the remaining tomato and cucumber into cubes. Garnish the chicken souvlaki with fresh cilantro and serve with tzatziki sauce, roasted potatoes and onions, and the fresh salad accompaniment !
It is recommended to consume the chicken souvlaki immediately after preparation.
If pita gyros drive you crazy, make pita yourself and fill them with chicken cubes and the rest of the ingredients. We also recommend trying the recipe for Chicken skewers with pita , a truly tasty variation!

