name:
Red seabream fillets in crazy water with mashed potatoes
ingredients:
Seabream: 1.75lbs(800 g)- already gutted
Datterino tomatoes: 1 ⅓cup(250 g)
Parsley: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: to taste- (only the stems)
White pepper: to taste
Water: ¼cup(60 g)
Potatoes: 2 ⅓cups(350 g)
Lemon peel: 1- from Sorrento
Parsley: to taste- (only the leaves)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the red seabream fillets in crazy water with mashed potatoes, first put the potatoes to boil . By pricking them with the tines of a fork, you will be able to check their cooking. It will take about 30-40 minutes depending on the size of the potatoes. When the potatoes are cooked, drain them and set them aside, keeping them warm. In the meantime, deal with the fish. Place it on a cutting board and with the opposite side of a knife blade, descale it, passing it several times from the tail to the head . With a sharp knife, make a slightly oblique cut under the head .
Then cut into the tail and the dorsal part of the fish along the vertebral column , starting from the top, and proceed moving the blade horizontally relative to the work surface to obtain the first fillet . Remove the part of the fillet near the belly, containing more bones .
Flip the fish over and obtain the second fillet in the same way , then remove any bones with tweezers . If you prefer, you can have this operation done by your trusted fishmonger, or buy about 1.1 lbs of red seabream fillets. Now cut each fillet in half , to obtain 4 portions.
Move on to the cherry tomatoes, wash them and after removing the stem , cut them into 4 pieces . Take a bunch of parsley and separate the stems from the leaves ; the latter will be used for plating, transfer them to a small bowl and set them aside.
Move on to the sauté. In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, 1 clove of garlic in its skin, slightly crushed , and the whole parsley stems. Let the base brown and flavor well, then remove the garlic and stems . Pour in the cherry tomatoes and add a pinch of salt , which will aid cooking as it will allow the tomatoes to release their water.
Deglaze with white wine and when the alcohol has completely evaporated, add the red seabream fillets and the water .
Adjust with salt and white pepper. Cover with a lid and let the fillets cook for 8-10 minutes on a low flame without turning them. In the meantime, focus on the mashed potatoes. Cut the potatoes in half and without peeling them, mash them with a potato masher, collecting the puree in a bowl . Add a drizzle of oil ,
salt, white pepper , and the grated zest of half a lemon . Mix until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture .
At this point, the fish will also be ready; you will notice that it appears glossy on the surface . All that's left is to plate. Using two spoons, shape two quenelles of mashed potatoes and place them on a plate .
Place the red seabream fillet in the center of the plate and drizzle it with the sauce . Add a grating of lemon zest
the parsley leaves, cutting them with scissors , and a drizzle of raw oil . Serve the red seabream fillet while it's still hot .
You can store the red seabream fillets with mashed potatoes for 1 day in the refrigerator.
Freezing is not recommended.
It's important to use very fresh fish. To recognize it, at the time of purchase, check that the eyes are clear, the flesh is firm, and the gills are bright red.
The fish will be perfectly cooked when the white protein comes out of the fillet and it is glossy and moist.
Choose a dry, not fruity, good quality white wine. To perfume the dish, use lemons from Sorrento, a unique variety for the essential oils they contain, developed thanks to the area's climate.
For a different touch, use yellow cherry tomatoes instead of plum tomatoes!

