name:
Tropical cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Potato starch: 2.7tbsp(20 g)
Eggs: 8.8oz(250 g)- (approximately 4 large)
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Muscovado sugar: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Papaya: 1- (180 g of pulp)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¾cup(425 g)
Brown sugar: 5tsp(20 g)
Cornstarch: 1tbsp(15 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Mango: 1- hard
Shredded coconut: ¼cup(20 g)
Coconut milk: ¼cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + resting and cooling times

instructions:
To make the tropical cake, first prepare the sponge cake: in a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment, pour the eggs along with the muscovado sugar and the granulated sugar and beat everything until you obtain a light, fluffy and frothy mixture .
Add the all-purpose flour and the previously sifted potato starch and mix gently with a spatula from bottom to top so as not to deflate the mixture. Pour the obtained batter into a round 9-inch diameter mold that you have previously buttered or lined with parchment paper and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 30 minutes. Once baked, flip the sponge cake over a wire rack and let it cool completely.
In the meantime, you can take care of the papaya chantilly: remove the seeds and the skin and cut 180 g of pulp into cubes , then blend it with an immersion blender .
Strain the papaya puree to make it smooth and homogeneous . In a saucepan, pour 1/3 cup of cream, the brown sugar , and the papaya puree and heat the mixture over medium-low heat.
When the mixture reaches just below boiling point, add the cornstarch and stir with a whisk for about 5 minutes until you achieve a thick and uniform cream . Pour the cream into a bowl , cover with plastic wrap, and let it cool in the refrigerator for at least an hour: you will need 150 g to make the chantilly.
When the sponge cake has completely cooled, cut it horizontally into 3 equal thickness discs . After the papaya cream has chilled, you can continue the preparation of the chantilly: pour the remaining 1 1/2 cups of cream into a bowl, add the seeds of the vanilla bean , and whip it with electric mixers .
When the cream is well whipped, add the cold papaya cream and gently mix with a spatula to incorporate it without deflating the mixture .
In a separate bowl, also whip the cream you will use for decoration and transfer about half of it into a piping bag without a nozzle. At this point, you are ready to assemble the cake: place the first sponge cake disc on a turntable and brush it with coconut milk , then create a border of whipped cream using the piping bag .
Add half of the papaya chantilly in the center and spread it with a spatula, staying within the whipped cream border . Cover with the second sponge cake disc and repeat the operation for the second layer, both for soaking and filling. Finally, place the third and final sponge cake layer .
Cover the surface with whipped cream and place the cake in the refrigerator while you peel the mango and slice it thinly using a vegetable peeler . Now you can move on to decoration: create a rose by placing the mango slices starting from the center and reaching about 1 to 1 1/4 inches from the edge of the cake .
Finally, decorate the upper edge with the remaining whipped cream (we used a piping bag with a drop-shaped nozzle) and sprinkle with shredded coconut . The tropical cake is ready to be served !
The tropical cake can be stored for 2 days in the refrigerator. If you want to get ahead with the preparations, you can make the sponge cake the day before or freeze it. The papaya cream can also be prepared a day in advance and stored in the refrigerator: this way, it will be well chilled when it's time to add it to the cream.
If you like an alcoholic touch, you can add rum to the coconut milk for soaking. To make the cake even more delicious, you can enhance the filling cream with chocolate chips!

