name:
Black Forest Semifreddo
ingredients:
Dark chocolate 55%: 7.75oz(220 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(190 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2) at room temperature
Sugar: ½cup(90 g)
Butter: 4 ½tbsp(60 g)- soft
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2tbsp(10 g)
Baking powder: ½tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Fresh liquid cream: 1.6cups(385 g)
Sugar: 6tsp(25 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.25oz(6 g)
Black cherried in syrup: 1.8oz(50 g)- drained
Powdered sugar: ¼cup(25 g)
Black cherry syrup: 1.75oz(50 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Black cherried in syrup: 6

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 4 hours of cooling

instructions:
To prepare the Black Forest semifreddo, start with the base of the semifreddo. Soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for 5-10 minutes. Heat 1/6 cup of fresh cream, and as soon as it begins to simmer, turn off the heat and add the well-drained gelatin . Stir with a whisk to dissolve it .
At this point, pour the remaining 1 1/2 cups of cream into a bowl and beat with electric beaters until you obtain a semi-whipped consistency . Pour the dissolved gelatin into the cream and mix with a whisk .
At this point, divide the base of the semifreddo, pouring 1 1/3 cups into one bowl (for the pink semifreddo) and 1/2 cup into another bowl, which will become the base of the white semifreddo . Add 1/4 cup of drained candied sour cherries to the 1/2 cup mixture and 2 tbsps of powdered sugar .
Mix until the powdered sugar dissolves. At this point, transfer the semifreddo into 6 silicone hemisphere molds with a 2-inch diameter and place in the freezer to set for 2 hours. Take the other bowl and pour in 1/4 cup of sour cherry syrup .
Mix , add 1/4 cup of candied sour cherries , and mix again to incorporate them . At this point, line the edges of 6 rings with a 3-inch diameter with acetate and place them on a tray lined with parchment paper. Transfer the cherry mixture inside and level the surface with the back of a spoon. Transfer to the freezer for at least 90 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the base. Chop the dark chocolate and melt it in a double boiler or microwave, being careful not to burn it. In a bowl, place the butter, sugar, and salt . Work with electric beaters until you obtain a creamy consistency, then add the eggs one at a time and work until completely absorbed.
Add the melted but cooled chocolate and incorporate it with electric beaters . Finally, add the flour and baking powder
Mix again with electric beaters until you get a smooth and homogeneous mixture. Transfer it into a 16.5x11.5-inch baking pan lined with parchment paper and level it with a spatula to have a thickness of about 0.4 inches . Bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 20 minutes. When the base is cooked, remove from the oven and let cool completely.
When it's well cooled, cut out 6 discs using a 3.5-inch cookie cutter and arrange them on a tray . At this point, retrieve the cherry semifreddo, the pink one, and gently remove the cookie cutter .
Place it on the sponge cake disc, remove the acetate , and proceed in this way for the others as well. Then take the white semifreddo and gently unmold the first one , then place it on the pink semifreddo . If the base is not perfectly flat, you can move the hemisphere on a plate to smooth it.
Chop the chocolate and melt it in a double boiler or microwave. Use it to decorate your semifreddos by making a drizzle on the surface and place a cherry on top . Wait a few minutes, and your semifreddos are ready to serve .
You can store the finished semifreddos in the refrigerator for 2 days.
Alternatively, you can freeze them for a month.
Add some cherry liqueur to the preparation of the white semifreddo!

