name:
Summer Chickpea Salad
ingredients:
Precooked chickpeas: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Yellow peppers: 0.7cup(100 g)
Round zucchini: 3.5oz(100 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 3.5oz(100 g)
Red onions: 2.8oz(80 g)
Cucumbers: 1.8oz(50 g)
Feta cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)
Mint: 12tsp(12 g)
Lemons: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the summer chickpea salad, start by washing and drying all the vegetables. Remove the top of the bell pepper and detach the stalk with seeds , then remove the inner filaments and finally cut the bell pepper into thin strips . Cut the cherry tomatoes in half .
Move on to the zucchini: trim it and cut it into rounds ; from these, make sticks . Trim the cucumber and, without peeling it, slice it into oblique pieces not too thick .
Peel and thinly slice the red onion . Finally, prepare the salad dressing by pouring fresh mint leaves along with the oil into a blender cup . Blend with the immersion blender
and add the lemon juice . Mix and transfer to a small bowl. Drain the pre-cooked chickpeas and pour them into a rather large bowl , then add all the other ingredients one by one: zucchini, red onions, and bell peppers ,
cucumbers and cherry tomatoes. Then flavor with grated lemon zest and dress everything with mint oil , salt, and pepper to taste.
Mix and add the final touch: crumbled feta . One last mix and your summer chickpea salad is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the summer chickpea salad within the day and to dress it at the moment.
Freezing is not recommended.
Customize your summer chickpea salad: crunchy bread cubes toasted in the oven or pan with oil, garlic, and rosemary. If you prefer, also with smoked paprika.
You could add a crunchy note with toasted nuts in a pan. Choose between walnuts, hazelnuts, and almonds, or make a nice mix!
If you want to use dried chickpeas, just soak half the indicated quantity in fresh water, then rinse and boil the chickpeas (without salt, it always goes at the end!).

