name:
Tuna with Onion Sauce
ingredients:
Tuna: 1.9lbs(880 g)- (4 slices)
White onions: 1.6lbs(720 g)
Tomato purée: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
White wine: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Water: ¾cup(200 g)
Sugar: 1tsp
Parsley: 1tuft- to chop
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the tuna with onion sauce, first take care of the onions: peel the onions, cut them in half and slice them thinly . Heat a drizzle of oil in a saucepan and add the onions .
Add the sugar and salt and cook over medium-low heat for at least 15 minutes, stirring occasionally .
In the meantime, sear the tuna steaks: heat a drizzle of oil in a separate pan, place the tuna steaks and slightly brown both sides for about a minute , then remove them from the pan and set aside.
After the onions have cooked, take a larger pan and add a drizzle of oil: pour in both the cooked onions and the seared tuna , increase the heat, and deglaze with white wine .
When the alcohol has completely evaporated, add the tomato puree and stir gently to combine, then also add the chopped parsley . Adjust with salt and pepper and lower the heat.
At this point, add the water and cook over medium heat for about 20 minutes, shaking the pan occasionally to prevent the tuna from sticking . Your tuna with onion sauce is ready to be served hot, but it will also be great at room temperature !
It is recommended to consume the tuna with onion sauce immediately. Alternatively, you can store it in the refrigerator for up to one day.
In some variations of the recipe, apple cider vinegar or white wine vinegar is added to achieve a more pronounced sweet and sour taste: in this case, you can reduce the amount of wine to 200 g and prepare a sweet and sour sauce with 100 g of vinegar, sugar, and tomato concentrate, just like the one used for Caponata (Eggplant salad) ! If desired, you can deglaze with a rosé wine and add fresh basil for fragrance.

