name:
Pasta 'ncasciata from Messina
ingredients:
Tortiglioni pasta: 18oz(500 g)
Eggs: 4- (medium)
Eggplant: 1.6lbs(720 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ⅛cup(270 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 10oz(300 g)- to grate
Mortadella: 4.2oz(120 g)- (a thick slice)
Tomato purée: 3cups(700 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pasta 'ncasciata from Messina, you can start by boiling the Hard Boiled Eggs : place them in a small pot with cold water and, when boiling, count 9 minutes. Once cooked, cool them completely by running them under cold water. Then wash and trim the eggplants. Slice 220 g of them and cube the rest .
In a large pan, pour the oil and heat it to about 338°F. Fry a few eggplants at a time, first the cubes then the slices . Drain them one at a time on kitchen paper to remove excess oil and set aside.
Bring water to a boil in a pot: it will be used to cook the pasta. Move on to the sauce: pour a little oil into a pan and lightly fry the clove of garlic with its skin on, to be removed later. Add the tomato sauce , the fresh basil torn by hand , salt, and pepper to taste. Cover with a lid and let it cook over medium-low heat for at least 20 minutes.
Now cut the mortadella into cubes , grate the caciocavallo , slice the hard-boiled eggs that have cooled and been peeled .
Cook the pasta until al dente; then remove the garlic from the sauce and drain the pasta directly into the pan with the sauce : stir to flavor . Now lightly grease a 12x9 inch baking dish .
Distribute half of the pasta , some of the eggplant cubes , the mortadella, and the hard-boiled eggs .
Top with a layer of ricotta and some of the grated caciocavallo cheese . Cover with the remaining pasta , finishing with the reserved eggplant cubes
and more caciocavallo cheese . Finally, line the baking dish with the eggplant slices and the last portion of caciocavallo cheese . Place the dish in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 25 minutes. Then serve your pasta 'ncasciata from Messina hot !
If there are leftovers, you can store the pasta 'ncasciata in the fridge covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for about 2 days.
The hard-boiled eggs and fried eggplants can be prepared in advance, as well as the sauce.
It can be frozen if you used fresh, not defrosted, ingredients.

Pasta 'ncasciata from Messina is prepared all over Sicily, especially on Sundays, with many differences. The most common variants are those that use Sicilian ragù, the addition of peas, and pieces of salami!

