name:
One-pot vegetarian red rice paella
ingredients:
Red rice: 1.1cups(200 g)
Asparagus: 4.5oz(130 g)
Green beans: ¾cup(120 g)
Feta cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Carrots: 3.2oz(90 g)
Peas: ½cup(80 g)- shelled
Fava beans: 2.5oz(70 g)- shelled
Red onions: 1.4oz(40 g)
Water: 2.67cups(600 g)- approximately
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Lemon juice: to taste
Mint: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the one-pot vegetarian red rice paella, first, prepare the vegetables. Remove the tougher, woody parts of the asparagus, peel the stalk , and cut it diagonally into slices, leaving the tips whole; if the tips are too large, cut them in half lengthwise . Peel the carrot and dice it .
Trim the green beans and cut them into pieces . Peel the onion and slice it thinly . Finally, remove the seeds from the chili pepper and cut it into rings .
Heat a large iron skillet with a drizzle of oil, add the onion and chili pepper , and briefly sauté over high heat, stirring with a wooden spoon. Add the carrots and sauté them for a few moments, then add the green beans
and the asparagus stalks and mix well. Pour the rice as a cross and toast it for a few moments , then stir and cover everything with water that you have previously salted to taste . Now lower the heat and cook for about 30-35 minutes in total, without stirring.
After the first 20-25 minutes of cooking, check that the rice hasn't dried out too much, then add the peas , the broad beans , and the asparagus tips and continue cooking.
At the end of the cooking time, scrape the bottom with a wooden spoon to check that the characteristic crust has formed . Then turn off the heat and let it rest for a minute before stirring, covering the skillet with a sheet of aluminum foil . After the resting time, you can finally mix everything and adjust the seasoning if necessary, then finish with a sprinkle of lemon juice ,
crumbled feta , pepper, and plenty of fresh mint . Your one-pot vegetarian red rice paella is ready to be served !
The one-pot vegetarian red rice paella can be stored in the refrigerator for about 2 days, but in this case, it is recommended to add the lemon, mint, and feta just before serving. Freezing is not recommended.
You can change the color of your vegetarian paella by using black rice instead of red rice (we recommend using the Ermes variety), but you will need to adjust the cooking times.
For those who love spicy notes, adding fresh ginger to the sauté will make the dish even fresher and more aromatic!

