name:
Spinach Pasta Swirls
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste- for dusting
Spinach: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ¾cup(180 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Nutmeg: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Tomato purée: 2.9cups(700 g)
Basil: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)- (to grate)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 30 min. of resting time for the pasta

instructions:
To prepare the spinach pasta swirls, start with the fresh pasta: pour the flour and eggs into a bowl , then mix with a fork to combine . Transfer the mixture to the work surface and continue kneading with your hands .
Once you have a smooth and homogeneous dough , wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature for at least 30 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the sauce: in a saucepan, sauté the oil with a clove of garlic, then pour in the tomato purée and a little water, just enough to rinse the jar. Season with salt and basil leaves and cook over low heat for about 40 minutes.
Meanwhile, take care of the spinach: in another saucepan, sauté the oil with a clove of garlic, then add the cleaned spinach . Salt, cover with the lid , and cook over medium heat for about ten minutes, just enough to wilt them slightly .
Drain the cooked spinach in a colander and press them to remove excess liquid , then let them cool. Once well drained, chop the spinach with a knife and transfer to a bowl, then add the ricotta and mix well.
Flavor with nutmeg and pepper , then combine everything .
After the resting time, lightly dust the work surface and the dough ball with semolina, then roll it out to form a rectangle about 20x12 inches, with a thickness of a couple of millimeters .
Trim the edges of the rectangle , then add the spinach mixture and spread it evenly with a spatula, leaving a 0.5-inch border on the long sides .
Gently roll the sheet starting from the long side , then slice the roll into pieces about 1.25 inches wide; with these amounts, you'll obtain 15-16 swirls . Meanwhile, the sauce will be ready, so remove the garlic clove .
Now you can assemble everything: take a baking dish about 11 inches in diameter and spread plenty of tomato sauce on the bottom , then place the slices with the cut side up and press them gently to spread them .
Cover the swirls with the remaining sauce and sprinkle the surface with the grated cheese . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 30 minutes, then turn on the grill mode for another 3 minutes. Once gratinated, your spinach pasta swirls are ready to be served !
The spinach pasta swirls can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze them either raw or cooked.
If you wish, you can flavor the spinach filling with lemon zest for a touch of freshness.
If you don't have time to prepare the dough, you can use ready-made pasta sheets, but you'll need to adjust the size. If blanching is necessary, be sure to slightly reduce the baking time.

