name:
Ciaudedda
ingredients:
Artichokes: 4
Fava beans: 1.8lbs(800 g)- to clean
Potatoes: 1.3lbs(580 g)
Red onions: 1
Pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Vegetable broth: 2.1cups(500 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare ciaudedda, start by cleaning the artichokes. Rub your hands with lemon to prevent them from darkening, or alternatively, you can wear gloves. Remove the tips of the artichokes, which not only have thorns but are also the toughest part . Peel away the outer leaves of the artichoke . Cut the base of the stem and use a paring knife to remove the fibrous outer layer .
Finally, remove the internal fuzz, known as the artichoke's "choke," found inside . At this point, cut the artichokes into wedges and set them aside . To prevent them from darkening, you can store them in a bowl filled with water and lemon juice. Slice the bacon .
Also, trim and slice the onion . Peel and cut the potatoes into 1- to 1.5-inch cubes . In a large pot, pour a drizzle of oil and add the bacon . Sauté for a few minutes.
Then add the onion , stir, and cook for about 5 minutes over medium heat until it softens. Once the onion is well-stewed, add the artichokes , then the potatoes , and stir.
Season with salt and pepper, and finally pour in the vegetable broth . Cover with a lid and let it cook for about 30 minutes over medium heat. Avoid stirring to prevent the vegetables from breaking apart; it will be enough to shake the pot occasionally.
Now, handle the fava beans by removing them from their pods ; you should obtain about 2.8 oz. Remove the skin covering the fava bean by gently pressing with your fingers . After 30 minutes of cooking, add the fava beans as well .
Mix gently, cover with the lid , and let it cook for another 10 minutes. The ciaudedda is ready , serve it hot .
Ciaudedda can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you love spicy notes, you can add fresh chili peppers at the end of cooking.

