name:
Rhubarb and Raspberry Tart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: 125
Sugar: 7tbsp(90 g)
Wildflower honey: 2tsp(15 g)
Eggs: 1.9oz(55 g)- (about 1 medium)
Rhubarb: 7cups(700 g)
Raspberries: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: 2cups(400 g)
Lemon juice: 3tbsp(40 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Egg whites: ¼cup(50 g)
Water: ⅛cup(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 1 h 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: High
Note + maceration, resting, and cooling times

instructions:
To prepare the rhubarb and raspberry tart, start with the jam. After washing and drying the rhubarb stalks, peel them superficially with a vegetable peeler (you can keep the strings for decoration) and then cut into thin pieces . Gather the pieces in a bowl and then roughly chop the raspberries
and toss them into the bowl . Finally, add the sugar and squeeze the lemon juice, combining it all together .
Stir , cover with plastic wrap, and let it macerate for 2 hours: this way, the juices will come out allowing you to cook . Meanwhile, proceed to the Shortcrust pastry . In the mixer, pour the flour and cold butter in pieces
Transfer the crumbly mixture to the work surface , add the sugar, honey , and beaten eggs. Knead briefly by hand
until you get a soft dough . Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it set in the refrigerator for at least an hour . At this point, the rhubarb and raspberries should be sufficiently macerated .
Pour the mixture into a steel pan and cook until it reaches 226°F, which you can measure using a kitchen thermometer; let it cool in a bowl . Retrieve the shortcrust pastry, beat it with the rolling pin to soften it a bit ,
and roll it out to obtain a disk of dough about 0.4 inches thick and slightly larger than the 9.5-inch tin . Lightly dust with flour and wrap the pastry around the rolling pin to then unroll it and place it in the tin. Remove the excess using a knife and prick the base with the prongs of a fork .
Pour the cooled jam and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 40 minutes . Once cooked, let it cool before unmolding .
In the meantime, dedicate yourself to the last preparation, the Italian meringue. In a saucepan, pour water and sugar, turn on the burner . As soon as the mixture starts to bubble or, more precisely, when it reaches 230°F , pour the egg whites into the stand mixer and set the beaters to medium-high speed .
Once the syrup reaches 250°F, you can pour it into the stand mixer: first, turn it off. Pour about half of the syrup and then turn it back on at medium-low speed while slowly adding the remaining part . Return to medium-high speed and let it run until the mixture has returned to room temperature or until you have obtained the meringue . All that's left is to decorate the dessert, spoon it onto the tart ,
and spread it lightly . Your rhubarb and raspberry tart is ready , you can decorate it in the center with the rhubarb strings .
The rhubarb and raspberry tart can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for up to 2-3 days, preferably without meringue. Freezing is not recommended.
Lovers of acidity step forward: further enhance the taste of the rhubarb and raspberry tart by adding a piece of fresh ginger to marinate with the rhubarb, for a truly tangy effect! Conversely, if you prefer to soften the jam, you can replace the raspberries with 1 1/4 cups of strawberries.

