name:
Asparagus muffins
ingredients:
Asparagus: 13.4oz(380 g)- to clean
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Greek yogurt: 3cups(200 g)
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)
Eggs: 4.2oz(120 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 3.2oz(90 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¾tbsp(40 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 3 ¼tsp(16 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the asparagus muffins, first remove the tougher white part of the asparagus : you will obtain about 250 g (8.8 oz) of asparagus. Cut off the tips and slice the remaining stems into rounds . Cut the tips in half lengthwise and set them aside .
Heat a dash of oil in a pan, add the asparagus rounds and cook for 5 minutes over medium heat . Once cooked, transfer the rounds to a tall glass and blend with an immersion blender to obtain a smooth puree .
Now place the tips in the pan where you cooked the rounds and sauté them for a few minutes, but they should not fall apart . Transfer the tips to a small bowl .
For the batter: in a bowl, pour the eggs , the olive oil , and the milk , and finally, salt.
Mix with a whisk to combine , then add the yogurt and the sifted baking powder through a sieve .
Also incorporate the sifted flour and mix again with the whisk . Season the obtained batter with grated cheese .
Finish with the asparagus puree and some chopped basil leaves . Add pepper and mix one last time .
Transfer the batter to a disposable piping bag , place cupcake liners in a 12-muffin pan, and squeeze the batter : do not fill the liners to the edge but leave some space as they will rise during baking.
Place the asparagus tips on top and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C) for 20 minutes or until they are golden on the surface. Once cooked, remove the asparagus muffins from the oven and let them cool slightly before removing them from the pan and serving !
Store the asparagus muffins in the refrigerator inside an airtight container for up to 2 days. Alternatively, you can freeze them once cooked for about 1 month.
Want to make your asparagus muffins more savory? Add a handful of pancetta or a pinch of saffron powder. As an alternative to yogurt, you can use robiola or ricotta.

