name:
Spinach crepes with salmon
ingredients:
Eggs: 4
Spinach: 7cups(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Whole milk: 1.875cups(450 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Smoked Salmon: 14oz(400 g)
Cream cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 5
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the spinach crepes with salmon, first break the eggs into a bowl, then add the salt , the oil , and the milk . Mix well with a hand whisk.
Add the fresh spinach, washed and well squeezed , and blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture. At this point, incorporate the flour .
Mix again with the whisk to fully absorb it . Now heat a non-stick pan with a diameter of 9 inches and grease it with oil, then pour a ladle of batter into the center and move the pan to distribute it evenly .
Cook over medium-low heat until the edges begin to peel away , then flip the crepe and cook on the other side for a total of about 3 minutes . Remove the crepe from the pan and stack them one by one on a plate ; with these quantities, you will obtain about 10 spinach crepes.
After cooking all the crepes, proceed with the filling: spread the fresh cheese over the entire surface , then lay a couple of slices of smoked salmon . First, fold the sides inward .
Once the sides are folded, roll the crepe to seal the filling . Proceed in this way to fill all the others. Your spinach crepes with salmon are ready to be enjoyed !
Spinach crepes with salmon can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days, in an airtight container.
Spinach crepes can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. Alternatively, it is also possible to freeze them.
Customize the filling to your liking by replacing the salmon with cooked ham or grilled vegetables, for example.
As a spreadable cheese, you can use your preferred fresh cheese, such as ricotta, stracchino, or goat cheese.
If the green crepes have intrigued you, try them in this recipe too: Baked Spinach Crepes !

