name:
Jacket eggplants
ingredients:
Eggplant: 4- small
Zucchini: 2- medium
Cherry tomatoes: 0.8cup(120 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Mint: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare jacket eggplants, first carefully wash and dry the eggplants . Place a sheet of parchment paper over a sheet of aluminum foil and wrap each eggplant individually to create a well-sealed package. Place the packages on a baking sheet and bake in a preheated convection oven at 430°F for about an hour.
In the meantime, prepare the filling ingredients: grate the caciocavallo cheese with a coarse grater and set aside. Wash the zucchini and also grate them with a coarse grater , then transfer them to a colander, lightly salt , and let them drain to remove excess moisture.
Do the same with the cherry tomatoes, which you have washed and diced : place them in a colander, lightly salt , and let them drain. Toward the end of the eggplants' cooking time, transfer the drained zucchini to a bowl, add about two-thirds of the grated caciocavallo cheese , and mix.
At this point, take the eggplants out of the oven, open the package, and cut the eggplant lengthwise, then remove a wedge of pulp to make room for the filling . Stuff the eggplants with the zucchini and caciocavallo mixture and the drained tomatoes .
Finally, sprinkle the remaining caciocavallo cheese and add a grind of pepper , then return to the oven in grill mode at 465°F for 7-8 minutes to melt the cheese and gratinate the surface. Once cooked, garnish with a few mint leaves and enjoy your jacket eggplants !
It is recommended to consume jacket eggplants immediately or store them in the refrigerator for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
Since this is a very versatile recipe, you can customize the filling to suit everyone's tastes: cherry tomatoes, mozzarella, basil, and Parmesan for a Mediterranean version, or smoked cheese, golden breadcrumb crumbs, garlic, chili pepper, and parsley for those who love strong flavors! You can use the leftover eggplant pulp to make a delicious Eggplant pesto .

