name:
Almond sweet buns
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)
Almond Milk Syrup: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- melted
Sugar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.25oz(9 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¼tsp(7 g)
Eggs: 1
Whole milk: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Almonds: 1.25oz(35 g)
Granulated sugar: 6tsp(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 30 pieces

instructions:
To prepare the almond sweet buns, start with the dough. Place a sieve over a bowl and sift the two flours . Then, in another bowl, pour the milk at room temperature and then the yeast .
Stir with a spoon until the yeast has completely dissolved . Then in the bowl with the flours add the sugar and the milk gradually while kneading with your hands .
Pour in the almond syrup and the melted and cooled butter . As soon as the dough is almost ready, incorporate the salt .
Transfer the dough to the work surface and knead for a few minutes or until you have obtained a smooth ball . Transfer to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for about 3 hours at a temperature of about 79°F or until doubled .
Divide the dough in two and shape into two loaves, it will be easier to work with them . Using a bench scraper, cut about 15 pieces of 1 oz each from each loaf. You should get a total of 28-30 little buns . Slightly flatten the individual pieces
and finally round them with the palm of your hand: you should obtain a perfectly closed sphere . Place the balls on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper as you go, leaving space between them, and cover with a cloth to let them rise for about half an hour . Meanwhile, preheat the oven and chop the almonds with a knife .
Take the buns, brush them with a little milk and sprinkle them with the chopped almonds and sugar sprinkles .
Your buns are ready to be baked , in the oven at 392°F for about 18 minutes or until golden . Your almond sweet buns are ready, let them cool completely… if you can resist tasting them first !
The almond sweet buns can be stored at room temperature, in a bag, for about 3-4 days. Once baked, they can be frozen, as long as they are well cooled.
To make your almond buns even more delicious, you can add a mix of dried fruits like pine nuts, hazelnuts, and walnuts on top or in the dough.

