name:
Asparagus gnocchi with burrata cream and bacon
ingredients:
Asparagus: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1 ½cup(330 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Burrata cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (1 medium)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.5oz(15 g)
Whole milk: 0.3cup(80 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes of resting time for the gnocchi

instructions:
To prepare asparagus gnocchi with burrata cream and bacon, first wash the asparagus, then cut off the white part at the base and peel the stalk to remove the fibrous part . Cut the tips, which will be used to season the gnocchi .
Boil the asparagus in salted water for 15 minutes, until they become soft. Halfway through cooking, add the tips, which require less time. Drain the cooked asparagus well, set the tips aside, and place the stems in a bowl. Blend them with an immersion blender to obtain a cream. Incorporate the semolina and start kneading.
Gradually add the water and continue kneading by hand until you get a compact and uniform dough . As you go, decide whether to add more water or use less.
Break off 1-ounce pieces and roll them to create a log . Cut into 1-inch pieces and, with your hands, form the gnocchi .
Place the gnocchi on a cutting board, sprinkle with semolina, cover with a cloth, and let them rest for 30 minutes . Now prepare the seasoning: in a bowl, pour the egg, grated cheese , and season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg .
Mix with a whisk or fork to get a homogeneous mixture . Now place the burrata in a bowl and blend it with an immersion blender .
Incorporate the egg mixture , add the milk , and blend again .
You will obtain a smooth, lump-free cream . Meanwhile, bring a pot of salted water to a boil; it will be used for cooking the gnocchi. Cut the bacon into strips and place it in a very hot pan , frying it for a few minutes.
Season with chives and set aside. Meanwhile, cook the gnocchi and drain them into the seasoning as they rise to the surface . Toss in the pan for a few moments to flavor.
Turn off the heat and add the burrata mixture and the asparagus tips set aside , mix , and serve the asparagus gnocchi with burrata cream and bacon immediately .
The presence of the egg in the burrata cream makes the consistency similar to a carbonara, which is why asparagus gnocchi with burrata cream and bacon should be consumed immediately—otherwise, the cream will thicken as it cools.
Boiling the gnocchi in the asparagus cooking water will make the flavor even more intense.

