name:
Hake with Sparkling Wine
ingredients:
Hake: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (2 of 300 g each)
Spumante: 7oz(200 g)
Potatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Onions: 0.66lb(300 g)
Carrots: 2
Celery: 2ribs
Garlic: 1clove
Black olives: 12
Lemon juice: 1- small
Oregano: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the hake with sparkling wine, first gut the fish, rinse it under running water, and cut off the fins . Remove the head and tail and divide it into steaks .
Transfer the hake steaks to a dish and season them with lemon juice , half a teaspoon of oregano , a pinch of salt, and pepper. Let the fish marinate, turning it in the dressing, while you prepare the potatoes, which should be peeled and cut into regular pieces .
Do the same with the celery and carrots . Finally, peel the onions and cut them in half . Gather all the vegetables in a bowl.
Pour half the amount of sparkling wine into a saucepan , add the peeled garlic clove , and bring to a gentle boil, then add 4 tablespoons of oil .
At this point, add the vegetables , mix well, cover with a lid, and cook over medium heat for 25 minutes. After this time, remove the vegetables with a slotted spoon and keep them warm on the serving dish, adding a pinch of salt . Pour the remaining sparkling wine into the saucepan with the cooking juices ,
then transfer everything to a larger pan . Add the hake with its marinade , cover with a lid , and cook on low heat for 10 minutes.
Place the cooked fish steaks on the vegetables, season with the cooking juices, and flavor with the olives and the remaining oregano . Your sparkling wine hake is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the sparkling wine hake immediately. It can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day in an airtight container.
You can freeze it if you used fresh, not defrosted ingredients.

If you choose pearl onions and new potatoes, you can add them whole to the preparation.

