name:
Millet Focaccia
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(100 g)
Whole grain brown millet flour: ½cup(70 g)
Manitoba flour: ¾cup(90 g)
Water: 0.625cup(150 g)- at room temperature
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Malt: 0.7oz(20 g)
Fine salt: 2 ½tsp(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
Swiss chard: 3oz(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Smoked provola cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Maldon salt: to taste
Water: 1oz(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note plus 2.5 hours of rising

instructions:
To prepare millet focaccia, first dissolve the yeast in room temperature water . In a bowl, combine all-purpose flour, bread flour, and whole millet flour ; add the malt
and the water in which you dissolved the yeast . Knead by hand until you get an elastic consistency .
Add the oil and salt . Knead again until fully absorbed .
Transfer the dough to a lightly oiled surface and give it folds by bringing the outer edges of the dough towards the center . Cover with a bowl and let rest for 5 minutes.
Then give it another set of folds and transfer the dough to a lightly oiled bowl . Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for 2 hours in an oven with just the light on.
In the meantime, cook the greens. In a skillet, drizzle some oil and add a clove of garlic , let it brown, add the greens , and cook for a few minutes until wilted .
When the dough has doubled in size , transfer it to a 9.5-inch round pan . Press it with your fingertips to spread it over the entire surface .
Then place the greens in the center and brush the edge with the brine made by emulsifying water and oil . Let rise for another 20 minutes. Then sprinkle the surface with Maldon salt and bake in a preheated static oven at 410°F on the lower rack for 30 minutes. To prevent the surface from darkening too much, place a baking sheet on top to cover the oven's heating element. Meanwhile, slice the smoked provolone thinly. After 30 minutes, take the focaccia out of the oven ,
place the provolone slices on top and bake for another 5 minutes. When the provolone has melted, you can take the focaccia out and serve it still warm !
You can store the cooked focaccia for 1 day at room temperature.
Flavor the greens with a bit of chili pepper for a spicy touch!

