name:
Hazelnut tart with dark chocolate ganache and sour cherries
ingredients:
Nut flour: ¾cup(70 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(230 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(140 g)
Butter: 4oz(115 g)- cold
Hazelnut paste: ⅛cup(30 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 7 ½tbsp(10 g)
Eggs: 1oz(53 g)- (approximately 1 medium)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Dark chocolate: 12.5oz(350 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(100 g)
Black cherries in syrup: 1 ½cup(350 g)- (and 100 g of their syrup)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Note + cooling and setting times

instructions:
To prepare the hazelnut tart with dark chocolate ganache and sour cherries, start with the cocoa and hazelnut pastry. In a food processor, pour all the ingredients. Start with flour and butter , hazelnut flour , unsweetened cocoa powder
the eggs , powdered sugar , hazelnut paste
a pinch of salt and the vanilla seeds . Run the processor until the mixture is well combined or has formed a ball . Transfer onto a work surface
and smooth it into a dough ball . Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for an hour . After the time has passed, retrieve the pastry, remove the plastic wrap, and roll out the dough on a lightly floured board. Use a rolling pin
to obtain a disc about 1/4 inch thick and large enough to line a 9-inch removable bottom pan . Then trim the excess by pressing the rolling pin against the edges of the pan and prick the base with a fork .
Place a sheet of parchment paper and some weights or dried legumes on the pastry and bake in a preheated oven for 30 minutes at 350°F , then remove the parchment paper with the weights and continue baking for another 10 minutes .
Once the base is baked, let it cool completely before transferring it to a serving plate . Meanwhile, tend to the rest. Drain the sour cherries, collecting 100 g of syrup in a small bowl
then move the drained sour cherries and chop the chocolate to prepare the ganache . In a small saucepan, pour the sour cherry syrup ,
the cream , and heat almost to a boil. Then turn off the heat and immediately add the chocolate while stirring with a whisk . This way, the chocolate will melt with the still very hot temperature .
Pour the ganache over the pastry that you have meanwhile transferred to the serving plate, garnish with the sour cherries, and let set in the refrigerator for 6-8 hours . After the necessary time has passed for everything to set, your hazelnut tart with dark chocolate ganache and sour cherries will be ready to be enjoyed .
The hazelnut tart with dark chocolate ganache and sour cherries can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days, preferably kept covered under a dome or wrapped in plastic wrap. The dessert is not advisable to freeze, while the raw pastry can be frozen or prepared in advance.
The deliciousness of the hazelnut tart with dark chocolate ganache and sour cherries is truly unbeatable, so if you really want to make this dessert unforgettable, add some chopped and toasted hazelnuts along with the sour cherries or a sprinkle of chopped dark chocolate, perhaps try with the one with a very high percentage of cocoa!

