name:
Flatbread with Stuffed and Fried Zucchini Flowers
ingredients:
Flatbread: 4- flaky pastries with EVO oil
Zucchini flowers: 16
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.8cup(200 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 2.1oz(60 g)
Capers: 3tbsp(30 g)
Pistachios: 0.5oz(15 g)
Breadcrumbs: 4tbsp(30 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Red beer: 1 ¼cup(300 g)- cold
Cherry tomatoes: 1cup(160 g)
Red onions: 1.1oz(30 g)
Trocadero salad: to taste
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Note + the resting time for the batter and the zucchini flowers (about 30 min.)

instructions:
To prepare the flatbread with stuffed and fried zucchini flowers, start with the filling for the zucchini flowers: put the sun-dried tomatoes in a blender, add the capers , pistachios , and breadcrumbs , and blend to chop everything.
Combine the obtained mixture with the ricotta which you have previously drained , mix well and add the grated zest of one lemon , salt, and pepper. Transfer the filling into a piping bag and store it in the refrigerator until ready to use .
Move on to preparing the batter: pour the flour into a bowl, add the well-chilled beer , and mix well with a whisk to avoid lumps, then add the salt . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes .
Now you can deal with the zucchini flowers: remove the stem and the internal pistil , then take the piping bag from the refrigerator and fill the zucchini flowers with the filling , being careful to close the end with 2 toothpicks to prevent it from leaking out . Place the filled zucchini flowers in the refrigerator to firm up for about 20 minutes.
In the meantime, you can prepare the rest of the ingredients: wash and dry the salad thoroughly, then cut it into julienne strips and dress it with a drizzle of oil, a pinch of salt, and the grated zest of one lemon. Clean and thinly slice the red onion , then cut the cherry tomatoes into vertical slices .
Transfer the cherry tomatoes and onion into a bowl, add the roughly torn basil leaves, oil , salt, and mix everything .
Once the batter and zucchini flowers have rested, heat the vegetable oil in a saucepan and bring it to a temperature of 338°F. Remove the toothpicks from the zucchini flowers and gently dip them into the batter, one at a time, using kitchen tongs . Fry 1 or 2 zucchini flowers at a time for a few minutes until they are puffed and well golden, then drain them and place them on absorbent paper to remove excess oil.
After frying the zucchini flowers, you can assemble your flatbreads: heat the flatbread on both sides for a couple of minutes , then transfer it to a cutting board and top half of the surface with a generous bed of salad, a spoonful of cherry tomatoes and onions, and 4 zucchini flowers each . Fold in half and serve your flatbread with stuffed and fried zucchini flowers !
It is recommended to consume the flatbread with stuffed and fried zucchini flowers immediately.
If you prefer, you can add an anchovy to the stuffing of the zucchini flowers or you can replace the ricotta with crescenza cheese.

