name:
Pumpkin and Lentil Soup
ingredients:
Delica pumpkin: 1 ½cup(350 g)- to clean
Peeled red lentils: 0.4cup(80 g)
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 3.5oz(100 g)- to be cleaned
Chickpea flour: ⅓cup(50 g)
Shallot: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pumpkin and lentil soup, first make the Vegetable broth and keep it warm. Meanwhile, clean the pumpkin: cut it in half and remove the seeds and internal filaments . Peel it with a sharp knife, then cut the flesh into thick slices .
Finally, cut it into small regular cubes . Prepare the kale: remove the leaves from the central stem and chop them coarsely with a knife .
In a large saucepan, heat a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil with a clove of garlic chopped into pieces and the shallot coarsely chopped . Let it sauté gently for 4-5 minutes. Add the chopped shallot , then add the pumpkin .
Salt and pour in a ladle of hot vegetable broth , cover with the lid and bring to a boil; it will take about 10 minutes.
At this point, add the kale , stir and pour in a bit more broth to allow the leaves to stew slowly . Then immediately add the previously rinsed red lentils . Extend with another ladle of broth, stir and cook for about 15-20 minutes, or until all the vegetables are soft.
To give body and a creamier consistency, incorporate a tablespoon of chickpea flour . Continue cooking for a few more minutes, stirring well: you will see that the soup becomes thick and velvety . When ready, serve the pumpkin and lentil soup hot in a bowl, finishing with a drizzle of raw oil and, if desired, a grind of black pepper !
You can store the pumpkin and lentil soup in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for 2-3 days.
It can be frozen.
Do not throw away the kale stalks: you can reuse them to enrich a vegetable broth or a legume soup. Just cut them into pieces and simmer them with other vegetables for about half an hour. Alternatively, you can finely chop them and sauté them in a pan with garlic and oil.

