name:
Summer risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.4cups(280 g)
Yellow peppers: 1.7cups(260 g)
Arugula: 3 ½cups(70 g)
Red onions: ½
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Salted ricotta cheese: 1oz(30 g)- sheep
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the summer risotto, first, prepare the Vegetable broth , then proceed with cooking the bell peppers: after washing and drying them, place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and cook them for 40 minutes in a hot oven at 464°F or until they are cooked and charred on the outside . Put them in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let them cool .
Once the bell peppers have cooled, remove the outer skin and seeds , then slice them into strips 0.4 inches wide and then into pieces 1.2-1.6 inches long .
Collect the cooking liquid because it will be needed later . Before proceeding to cook the rice, grate the salted sheep ricotta using a coarse grater . Finally, clean and chop the red onion .
Now you can take care of the rice: place a saucepan on the stove and heat the oil over low heat, then add the onion and let it stew for 2-3 minutes . Add the rice and toast it for 4-5 minutes, stirring frequently to avoid burning . Deglaze with the bell pepper water .
And immediately after, add 2-3 ladles of warm vegetable broth . Continue cooking, seasoning with salt and adding more vegetable broth as needed. When the risotto is halfway cooked, tear the arugula by hand and add it to the pot .
When there are 4-5 minutes left in the cooking time, add two-thirds of the bell peppers , then turn off the heat and cream the risotto with the grated salted ricotta and 2 tablespoons of oil .
Season with pepper , stir, and adjust the consistency by adding more broth as needed . Plate your summer risotto and garnish with the remaining bell peppers !
It is recommended to consume the summer risotto immediately as it may lose its consistency. However, if desired, you can store it in the refrigerator for one day in a sealed container. Freezing is not recommended.
Make your summer risotto more flavorful by adding fresh-tasting herbs like marjoram or thyme. For a crunchy note, simply add some toasted almond slivers.

