name:
Bird's milk cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: ½cup(70 g)- sifted
Butter: 4tbsp(55 g)- soft
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Eggs: 1
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Water: ¾cup(180 g)- (for the syrup and for the gelatin)
Butter: 9 ½tbsp(135 g)- soft
Egg whites: ⅓cup(78 g)- (about 2 large)
Condensed milk: 4 ½tbsp(65 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.5oz(14 g)
Lemon juice: 3drops
Dark chocolate 55%: 7.1oz(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + chilling time in the refrigerator (at least 2 h)

instructions:
To prepare the bird's milk cake, start with the base. In a bowl, pour the softened butter, add the sugar , and work with an electric mixer . Once you have obtained a creamy mixture, add the egg and continue beating.
Keep the beaters running, incorporate the sifted flour , and mix until it is completely absorbed . Place a 9-inch diameter ring on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and pour the mixture inside .
Level the surface with a spatula and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 20 minutes. Then remove from the oven and let cool completely. Meanwhile, soak the gelatin in 80 g of water, taken from the total amount .
Move on to making the syrup: in a saucepan, pour the sugar and 100 g of water . Add 2-3 drops of lemon and bring the syrup to a temperature of 240°F.
It will take a few minutes; in the meantime, pour water and gelatin into a saucepan and stir over low heat until completely dissolved . Then set aside.
As soon as the syrup reaches 230°F, you can start beating the egg whites . When they become white and frothy, make sure the syrup is at 240°F and pour it in a thin stream, continuing to beat . Wait until it is completely incorporated ,
then add the dissolved gelatin and continue beating for about 10 minutes, until it is no longer hot . At this point, pour the softened butter into a bowl and work it with a whisk until you get a cream.
Add the condensed milk and mix again. Take 1-2 tablespoons of meringue and incorporate it into the butter mixture , mixing with the whisk. Then pour everything into the remaining meringue
and mix gently until obtaining a homogeneous cream . Place an adjustable ring with a diameter of 8-9 inches and a height of at least 4 inches on a serving plate and transfer the base inside . Pour the cream on top ,
level with a spatula and let it firm up for at least an hour in the refrigerator. When the cake has solidified, you can prepare the ganache for decoration: finely chop the chocolate and transfer it into a bowl. Heat the cream until almost boiling
and pour it into the chocolate in batches , stirring continuously until you obtain a shiny ganache . Take the cake from the fridge and pour the ganache on top .
Using a spatula, spread it over the entire surface . Transfer back to the refrigerator for at least another hour. At this point, you can remove the steel ring and serve your bird's milk cake !
The bird's milk cake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you wish, you can flavor the cream with a vanilla pod.

