name:
Two-tone croissant
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ½cups(400 g)
Manitoba flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- soft
Water: 1cup(40 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: ½tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Butter: 1cup(250 g)- soft
Vanilla bean: 1
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Manitoba flour: 1.8oz(50 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 10tbsp(50 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.4oz(10 g)
Sugar: 5tbsp(60 g)
Water: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¼tsp(7 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 18 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + about 16 hours of resting and rising

instructions:
To prepare the two-tone croissants, first make the butter that you will subsequently use for laminating. In the bowl of a stand mixer, place the 250 g of softened butter, add the seeds of the vanilla pod , and work it with the flat beater . Transfer the butter onto a sheet of parchment paper .
Cover with another sheet of parchment paper and roll it out using a rolling pin and a dough scraper . You should obtain a slab approximately ¼ inch thick, measuring 9x7 inches. Place the slab on a tray and refrigerate until needed.
Now, make the white dough. Dissolve the yeast in the room temperature milk . In the bowl of a stand mixer equipped with the hook attachment, pour in the two flours ,
add the milk in which you dissolved the yeast and the sugar . Turn on the stand mixer
then add the water . When the dough clings to the hook, start incorporating the softened butter one piece at a time , waiting for it to be completely absorbed before adding the next. Finally, add the salt
and continue to work for about 5 minutes until it becomes smooth and elastic . Then transfer the dough onto a work surface and shape it into a round ball . Once you have formed a ball, place it into a large bowl , cover with plastic wrap, and let it rise for an hour at room temperature. Then transfer the dough to the refrigerator and let it rest for 12 hours (maximum 15).
When the 12 hours are almost up, prepare the cocoa dough. In the bowl of a stand mixer equipped with the hook attachment, add the two flours and cocoa . Dissolve the yeast in the room temperature milk .
Pour the milk into the stand mixer and add the sugar . Turn on the stand mixer and add the water .
When the dough clings to the hook, start incorporating the softened butter one piece at a time , waiting for it to be completely absorbed before adding the next. Finally, add the salt and continue to work for about 5 minutes until it becomes smooth and elastic .
Then transfer the dough onto a work surface and shape it into a round ball . Once you have formed a ball, place it into a large bowl , cover with plastic wrap, and let it rise at room temperature until needed: this will take about 3 hours.
After the white dough has matured, take it out of the refrigerator and bring it back to room temperature . Roll it out to form a rectangle measuring 10x16 inches and place the slab of butter in the center .
Bring the edges of the dough towards the center , making them meet but not overlap : this way, you will encase the butter slab. Rotate 90° and roll it out to a thickness of ¼ inch .
Now make the first 4-fold. Bring one of the two edges towards the center , then fold the other edge so that they meet . Close the dough like a book and refrigerate for 30 minutes.
Roll it out again in the direction of the folds until you obtain a thickness of ¼ inch . Now make the first 3-fold: bring one end of the dough towards the center of the rectangle, pushing it slightly beyond , then fold the opposite part over it . Lifting the dough, you should see the 3 folds.
Transfer onto a tray lined with parchment paper and let it chill in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. Then roll it out again , make the second 3-fold , and return to the refrigerator for 30 minutes. Retrieve the dough and make the third and final 3-fold in the same manner. Finally, refrigerate for 1 hour.
Take the puff pastry (white dough) and roll it out with a rolling pin to form a rectangle measuring 20x14 inches, about ¼ inch thick . Now take the cocoa dough, which should be well risen by now , and roll it out with the rolling pin
to form a rectangle measuring 20x14 inches, again about ¼ inch thick . Now brush the white rectangle with water and place the cocoa rectangle on top, using the rolling pin to help .
Use your hands to align the edges well , then use the rolling pin to adhere the two layers completely . Cut your rectangle in half
and cut out 18 triangles with a base of 4 inches . Take the first triangle and, holding the base firmly, gently stretch the tip with your hand to lengthen it by about 1/4. Place it back on the surface and start rolling it, without pressing too hard
until you form the classic croissant shape, making sure to position the closure at the base . Continue in this way with all the others, placing them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and spacing them apart . Let them rise for an hour in a turned-off oven with just the light on, or in any case, away from drafts that would dry out the surface .
Bake in a preheated fan oven at 350°F for 25 minutes on the central rack. Monitor the color without opening the oven, and when they are golden brown, take them out . Meanwhile, in a saucepan, add water and sugar : bring to a boil until the sugar is completely dissolved .
Transfer the syrup to a small bowl and let it cool slightly, then use it to brush the hot croissants . The two-tone croissants are ready to be enjoyed !
The two-tone croissants keep for 1 day at room temperature. They can be frozen either before the final rise or after baking. If before, let them thaw in the refrigerator, then proceed with the recipe.
It is advisable to work the dough in a cool environment, not exceeding 70°F.

