name:
Tempura
ingredients:
Shrimps: 1.1lbs(500 g)- to clean
Carrots: ¾cup(100 g)
Zucchini: ¾cup(100 g)
Sparkling water: 10.6oz(300 g)- chilled
Rice flour: ¾cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Ice: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the tempura, first, make sure that the ingredients for the batter are very cold, so place the water in the freezer until you need it (make sure it doesn't freeze). Proceed to prepare the shrimp: gently remove the head , legs, and shell, leaving only the tail attached, then remove the black thread on the back using a toothpick or the tip of a small knife . Finally, slightly flatten the cleaned shrimp using a small rolling pin, to prevent them from curling during frying ; alternatively, you can make shallow diagonal cuts along the back.
Now prepare the vegetables: trim and cut the zucchini in half , then slice them into thin slices of a few millimeters ; if you prefer, you can cut them into sticks. Do the same with the carrots .
At this point, you can prepare the batter: pour all-purpose flour and rice flour into a bowl , mix and place the bowl in a larger container filled with ice cubes . Add the chilled sparkling water and mix very briefly with a whisk or a fork : you should not get a smooth batter, but a lumpy one.
Pour the seed oil into a wok or a high-sided pan and heat it to a temperature of 340°F-355°F. If you don't have a thermometer, you can check the temperature by dropping a bit of batter into the oil: if it sinks halfway and then quickly rises to the surface, the oil is ready for frying. Dip the shrimp into the batter , letting the excess drip off, then immerse them in the hot oil and fry for 1–2 minutes. For a more voluminous result, you can take a little batter with your fingers and let it drop directly over the shrimp to form crispy protrusions. As they are ready, remove the shrimp from the oil and transfer them to paper towels. The batter should not brown during frying but should remain white.
Coat the vegetables with batter and fry them , making sure not to add too many pieces at once to avoid the oil temperature dropping, then drain on paper towels . Your tempura is ready to be served simply with a bit of salt or accompanied by the sweet and sour sauce !
It is recommended to eat the tempura immediately to enjoy all its crispness.
The secret to great tempura is indeed getting a batter with lumps! Does it seem strange? The reason is to prevent too much gluten from developing, which is why the ingredients should be mixed as little as possible, to the point that some suggest using chopsticks and just drawing eights inside the bowl.
Another guarantee of success is the thermal shock that occurs when the cold ingredients come into contact with the hot oil: for this reason, it is very important to keep the batter's temperature low, so much so that some even put the flour in the refrigerator before using it! Speaking of flour, you can safely use only rice flour if you want to make gluten-free tempura.
As for the ingredients to fry, you have plenty of choices: pumpkin, eggplant, sweet potatoes, shiitake mushrooms, onions, green beans, asparagus, peppers... the important thing is that they are seasonal vegetables because they will cook quickly and retain their flavor. As an alternative to shrimp, you can also use squid, cuttlefish, or scallops!

