name:
Meat Pizza
ingredients:
Beef: 0.7lb(300 g)- ground
Pork: 5.3oz(150 g)- ground
Stale bread: 1.67cups(100 g)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (about 1 medium)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Tomato purée: ¾cup(200 g)
Mozzarelline ciliegine cheese: 2.6oz(75 g)
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the meat pizza, start by cutting the bread into pieces and place it in a bowl. Cover with plenty of cold water and let it soak well . Meanwhile, prepare the dough. Gather the ingredients in a bowl, adding the beef first, then the pork
the egg , Parmesan, salt, pepper, and the bread . The latter should be crustless and then squeezed .
Begin kneading for a few minutes until the mixture is compact . Tear a sheet of parchment paper and crumple it, then place it inside a scalloped baking dish and pour in the meatball mixture. Grease it well with some oil
and flatten it well . Then form a border about 0.8 inches wide by pressing with your thumb near the edge of the pan . Finally, prepare the topping. Pour the tomato sauce into a bowl and season with oil, salt, and pepper, and mix .
Spread the tomato sauce on the surface and bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F for about 30-35 minutes . Cut the mozzarella balls in half
as soon as the oven timer goes off, remove the pan and garnish with the cherry mozzarella balls . Add a pinch of pepper and put it back in the oven for another 4-5 minutes, in grill mode, and serve your meat pizza immediately. Let it rest for a few minutes before serving with some fresh basil added .
Once your meat pizza is ready, you can store it in the refrigerator for a couple of days. If you prefer, you can freeze it, both raw and cooked, only if you have used very fresh ingredients.
Since it is a Margherita pizza, it would be good to respect tradition, but since it's not a real pizza, let your palate inspire you. First of all, you can enrich the dough of your meat pizza with some aromatic herbs or spices to taste: parsley, garlic, and smoked paprika. Just to begin with. The cheeses can also be varied, why not try provolone or scamorza? Finally, if you want to make a very flavorful variation, go for 'diavola'! Spicy salami, or Calabrian spianata, will make your 'pizza' special!

