name:
Bread with Instant Yeast
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: ½cup(130 g)- warm
Black olives: 10
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Fine salt: 1tsp
Instant yeast for salted preparations: ½bag
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste- for the topping

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Bread with instant yeast is simple and quick to make. Pour the all-purpose flour into a bowl and add warm water , extra virgin olive oil , and instant yeast for savory recipes .
and the salt . With a fork, mix all the ingredients , then quickly work the mixture with your hands ,
until you get a homogeneous consistency . Take the black olives, remove the pit , and cut them into small pieces .
Flour the work surface with a bit of semolina flour and compact the previously prepared dough into a loaf . Take a small piece of dough about the size of a walnut, approximately 1 oz, and flatten it on the palm of your hand . Stuff with pieces of olives .
and close the small roll . Proceed in this way to make all the rolls and then pass them in the semolina flour , this way they will become crispy outside and remain soft and fluffy inside.
Place the rolls on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and bake them in a preheated static oven at 355°F for about 25 minutes, on the middle shelf, they should be slightly golden. At this point, take them out and let them cool slightly before serving .
You can store the rolls once well cooled in a tightly closed paper bag or wrapped in a cloth. You can also freeze them and then heat them as needed.
The rolls can be stuffed with preferred ingredients, even cold cuts, sausages, anchovies, or sun-dried tomatoes are suitable.
• Can you bake in a convection oven?
You can try, generally yes. It is recommended to lower the temperature by 20°F and bake for about 10 minutes less.
• Can it be made in one single shape?
Certainly, the baking will change, so attention must be paid to the timing.
• Why use semolina flour for the surface?
Because it is not absorbed by the dough, whereas using all-purpose flour would result in excessive hardening of the same dough.

