name:
Fava Bean Burger
ingredients:
Fava bean peels: 0.9lb(400 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 0.8cup(80 g)- grated
Bread: 6oz(170 g)- multigrain
Eggs: 1
Mint: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Fava beans: 2cups(300 g)- shelled
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tbsp(30 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Garlic: 1clove
Mixed salad: to taste
Pecorino cheese: 7oz(200 g)- Tuscan semi-aged
Cereal grain buns: 8- small

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the fava bean burger, first remove the string from the pod . Open it and extract the fava beans. To obtain 300 g, you will need 1 kg of fava beans. Then take 400 g of the pods and blanch them in hot water for about 15 minutes .
Drain them and let them cool slightly . Transfer them into a mixer container , add the bread cut into cubes ,
the grated pecorino cheese , mint leaves , the egg
and the salt . Blend everything until you get a homogeneous consistency ; check the consistency of the dough, and if it's too moist, add more pecorino or breadcrumbs. Transfer to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and place in the refrigerator to firm up for about half an hour.
In the meantime, focus on the sauce. Blanch the fava beans for a few minutes , then drain them . Let them cool slightly, then peel them .
Transfer the fava beans into a mixer glass, add lemon juice , minced garlic clove , salt, and pepper .
Pour in the oil in a thin stream while blending with an immersion blender , until you get a smooth cream . Cover with plastic wrap and set aside until use. Take the dough and make 8 small burgers, to do this take a portion
and shape it with your hands to give it the classic burger shape . Coat the fava bean burger with breadcrumbs and continue this way until all are formed .
Heat some oil in a pan, then cook the burgers on both sides until golden brown . Then cut the pecorino into thin slices and place it on top of the burgers .
Halve the buns , place a little mixed salad on the base and the burger with pecorino .
Add a generous tablespoon of fava bean sauce and close the bun . Continue this way until all the buns are formed and serve them .
The fava bean sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
The burgers can be stored in the fridge for 1 day. They can be frozen either raw or cooked.
For an alternative cooking method, bake the burgers in a fan oven at 392°F for 18-20 minutes, drizzling them with a generous amount of oil. In the last minutes, you can add the cheese to melt/gratin.
Instead of fava beans, you can also use pea pods.

