name:
Simnel cake
ingredients:
Butter: 1.1cups(250 g)- at room temperature
Muscovado sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Eggs: 8.1oz(230 g)- (about 4)
Type 00 flour: 1.4cups(175 g)
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)
Raisins: 1 ¼cup(175 g)
Dried berries: 1.4cups(175 g)
Candied cherries: 2.5oz(70 g)
Mixed candied fruit: 1.75oz(50 g)- mixed
Lemon peel: ½
Cinnamon powder: 0.4tsp(1 g)
Nutmeg: ¼tsp(1 g)- ground
Powdered ginger: ¼tsp(1 g)
Almond flour: 2 ½cups(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 2cups(250 g)
Egg whites: ¼cup(60 g)- (from about 2 medium eggs)
Almond extract: 1tsp- bitter
Butter: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste
Apricot jam: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 2 h 5 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Very high

instructions:
To make the simnel cake, start by preparing the batter: put the softened butter in a large bowl, add the muscovado sugar and mix with an electric whisk to combine them. Gradually add the eggs while continuing to beat with the electric whisk until a creamy mixture is obtained .
Mix the dry ingredients in a separate bowl: sift the flour with the baking powder, then add the nutmeg , ginger , and cinnamon .
Add the dry ingredients to the butter, sugar, and egg mixture and combine everything with the electric whisk . At this point, add the lemon zest , raisins ,
the dried red fruits , mixed candied fruit , and candied cherries .
Incorporate the ingredients with a spatula to make the batter smooth . Grease a springform pan with an 8-inch diameter and fill it with the obtained batter, leveling the surface . Bake the cake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for at least 2 hours, placing it on the lower rack.
In the meantime, prepare the marzipan: pour the almond flour and powdered sugar into a bowl and mix thoroughly with your hands , then add the bitter almond essence .
Add the egg whites and work with your hands to combine everything well . Form a dough that you can divide into two parts, then wrap in plastic wrap and let it firm in the refrigerator for at least one hour.
Once the cake baking time is over, take it out of the oven and let it cool in the mold , then gently unmold it and trim the surface using a serrated knife . At this point, you can take the marzipan dough from the refrigerator: dust the work surface with powdered sugar and roll out one of the dough portions to form a circle with an 8-inch diameter .
Transfer the cake onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and brush the surface with apricot jam that you previously heated , then place the marzipan disc on top . Take the second marzipan portion and make 11 balls .
Brush the marzipan disc with water where you will place the balls and position them along the edge of the cake . Finally, set the oven to grill mode and place the cake on the middle rack for about 5 minutes, ensuring that the marzipan does not burn but only darkens slightly. Your simnel cake is ready to be served !
The simnel cake can be stored at room temperature for about a week, covered with a glass dome. If you want to prepare in advance, you can make the cake base the day before or you can freeze it.
The simnel cake already features a particularly rich batter, but if you wish, you can add some brandy for a boozy note or coarsely chopped unpeeled almonds for a crunchy touch!

