name:
Flatbread with Sausage and Roasted Peppers
ingredients:
Flatbread: 4- super soft rollable
Bell peppers: 1.3lbs(600 g)- mixed
Sausage: 0.53lb(240 g)
Red onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Sweet Paprika: 1pinch
White wine: 2tbsp(30 g)
Precooked Cannellini beans: ½cup(120 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Lemon juice: ½

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the flatbread with sausage and roasted peppers, start with the latter. Wash the peppers, place them in a baking tray and drizzle with a bit of oil . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 40 minutes. After this time, take them out , and cover the tray with plastic wrap . Let them cool down.
In the meantime, prepare the bean cream. Pour the beans, drained from their preserving liquid, into a high-sided container, add the lemon juice , and the oil . Blend everything with an immersion blender until you obtain a cream.
Cover with plastic wrap and place in the fridge until use. Slice the onion thinly and set aside . Score the sausage with a small knife
and remove the casing . Drizzle a bit of oil in a pan, add the onion and let it soften. Then add the sausage and using a spoon, break it apart to crumble it.
Let it brown for a few moments, then add the sweet paprika and deglaze with the white wine . Season with salt and let the sausage cook for a few minutes until it is well browned .
In the meantime, peel the peppers , cut them into strips , and season with salt and oil.
Heat the first flatbread in a skillet for 1-2 minutes, turning it over at least once . Then place it on a cutting board and add a spoonful of bean cream in the center, a few peppers
and a bit of sausage . Fold the sides of the flatbread towards the center . Also bring the bottom side towards the center
and roll up the flatbread (25-26) before serving it .
The individual condiments can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Once the flatbread is stuffed, we recommend consuming it immediately.
You can flavor the bean hummus with chives or lemon zest.
Instead of peppers, use other grilled vegetables.

