name:
Venere rice salad
ingredients:
Black Venus rice: 1cup(200 g)- parboiled
Evelina apple: 5.3oz(150 g)
Carrots: 2.8oz(80 g)
Peas: 0.7cup(100 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1cup(150 g)
Soybean sprouts: ½cup(40 g)
Mint: 3leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.4tbsp(35 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the Venere rice salad, first boil the rice in salted boiling water and cook for the time indicated on the package. Then move on to preparing the other ingredients: trim, peel the carrot , and grate it using a large-hole grater ;
wash, dry, and cut the apple without peeling it first into slices , and then into small cubes . Finally, wash, dry, and cut the cherry tomatoes into wedges , rinse the bean sprouts, and set aside.
boil the peas for 5 minutes in boiling water . Meanwhile, prepare the dressing for the rice salad: squeeze the juice of half a lemon, pour it into a small bowl , salt and pepper to taste, and add the olive oil in a thin stream, stirring quickly with a flat whisk or fork .
Now drain the peas and run them under cold water to stop the cooking ; do the same with the now-cooked Venere rice . At this point, you can assemble all the ingredients: pour the rice into a large bowl and add the grated carrots ,
the cherry tomatoes , the boiled peas , the apple cubes ,
and the bean sprouts , and mix everything well. Just before serving, dress the rice salad with the citronette , mix, and garnish with mint leaves : your Venere rice salad is ready to be enjoyed!
You can store the Venere rice salad in the fridge, in an airtight container, for a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can enrich the Venere rice salad with your favorite seasonal ingredients, like fava beans and green beans, or with feta cubes and nuts to add a flavorful and crunchy note. If you like the spicy and tangy taste of Tabasco, a few drops in the citronette will be perfect!

