name:
One-pot parmigiana
ingredients:
Black eggplants: 0.9lb(400 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Tomato purée: 2.1cups(500 g)
Water: 0.625cup(150 g)
Yellow onions: 1oz(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.4tbsp(35 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1tbsp(15 g)- grated
Coarse salt: 1tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note plus 1 hour to drain the eggplants

instructions:
To prepare the one-pot parmigiana, start with the eggplants. Wash, dry, and finally remove the two ends. Then cut them into thin slices, 1/8 - 1/6 inches thick . Transfer them to a colander placed inside a bowl and sprinkle with coarse salt as you go . Place another bowl on the eggplants and put a weight on top, this way the eggplants will purge their bitter water. It will take about an hour.
In the meantime, slice the caciocavallo cheese into thin slices and remove the outer rind ; then finely chop the onion .
In a bowl, pour the tomato sauce, add the water , the oil , the pepper, the salt, and the onion . Mix and set aside.
Once the eggplants are well drained , dry them between two sheets of paper towel . At this point, layer the parmigiana directly in a pan 11 inches in diameter with a 7.9-inch base. So at the bottom, pour some tomato sauce, the eggplant rounds until covering the bottom ,
and then the caciocavallo torn by hand . Add a few basil leaves and then some sauce, spreading it evenly . Start again: eggplants
cheese , basil , and again tomato .
Sprinkle the last layer with Parmesan cheese and place on the stove. Cover with the lid and cook over low heat for 30 minutes, then lower the heat even more and continue cooking for another 10-15 minutes without the lid. At the end of cooking, sprinkle the surface with another pinch of pepper and a few basil leaves, and your one-pot parmigiana is ready to be enjoyed !
The one-pot parmigiana can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. If you prefer, you can also freeze it.
You can use other cheeses to fill your one-pot parmigiana, the important thing is that they are not fresh because they would release whey during cooking.

