name:
Pita with lamb
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1cup(125 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Water: 0.67cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(3 g)
Malt: 1tsp
Leg of lamb: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Pita bread: 4
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp
Cumin: 1pinch
Eggplant: 12.3oz(350 g)- (about 1)
Potatoes: 10.6oz(300 g)- 1 large
Cluster tomatoes: 2
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Greek yogurt: 0.8cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Basil: to taste
Dill: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 3 h
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes of marinating

instructions:
To make the pita with lamb, first place the leg in a baking dish, season it with paprika , cumin , pepper , and oil.
Carefully rub the seasonings all around the leg . Cover with plastic wrap and let it marinate for 1 hour. In this way, the meat will absorb all the flavors .
After the marinating time, cover the baking dish with aluminum foil and bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for at least 3 hours or until the lamb is well-cooked. While the lamb is cooking, you can make the pita by following our Pita recipe and using the ingredient amounts indicated above. Once cooked, remove the leg from the oven and shred it to get lamb strips , then add salt.
Meanwhile, boil the potatoes for 20 minutes . Wash and thinly slice the eggplant , then grill it on a very hot grill .
Gradually transfer the eggplants to a baking dish and season the grilled eggplants with olive oil and salt. Now prepare the sauce: in a blender cup, add basil, and dill .
Add 2 tablespoons of olive oil . Blend and mix the obtained blend with the yogurt .
Mix and set aside . Now take the boiled potatoes and slice them into pieces about 1/5 inch thick . Cook them with a drizzle of oil in a pan for 10 minutes .
When the potatoes are golden, turn off the heat and salt them . The filling is ready, take a pita, fill it with 1/4 of the amount of each ingredient starting with the eggplants and lamb strips .
Now add some coarsely chopped tomatoes and flavor with the yogurt sauce . Close the pita and enjoy it immediately .
We recommend consuming the pita with lamb immediately once filled. You can store the meat and vegetables separately after cooking for 1 day in the refrigerator.
Can't resist the spicy note? You have two options: you can add chili pepper to the meat marinade or to the accompanying sauce, it's up to you!

