name:
Tricolor Breadsticks
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 0.875cup(115 g)
Durum wheat flour: ½cup(65 g)
Triple concentrated tomato paste: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.25oz(4 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: ½tsp(3 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Durum wheat flour: 2.8oz(80 g)
Spinach: 5 ½cups(165 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(4 g)
Water: to taste
Sesame seeds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 80 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 2 h of rising

instructions:
To make the tricolor breadsticks, first cook the spinach that you will need for the green dough: heat the oil in a pan, add the washed spinach , cover with a lid , and let them wilt over medium heat for about 10 minutes .
While the spinach cools, proceed with preparing the red dough: put the all-purpose flour and semolina flour in a bowl , then pour the water into a separate small bowl and add the yeast . Stir with a teaspoon to dissolve it completely and also add the tomato paste .
Pour the red mixture onto the flours and knead with your hands to combine them , then add the oil
and the salt and continue to work until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough . Place the dough in the bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let rise for 2 hours at a temperature of about 79°F .
Proceed with the preparation of the neutral dough: combine the two flours in a bowl, dissolve the yeast in water in a separate small bowl, then pour it over the flours . Knead with your hands to combine everything , then add the salt
and the oil and continue to work until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough . Place the dough in the bowl , cover with plastic wrap, and let rise for about 2 hours.
At this point, take the spinach that should have cooled and prepare the green dough: transfer the spinach into a tall, narrow container and blend them with an immersion blender to make a puree . Pour the two flours into a bowl, then add the crumbled yeast and the spinach puree .
Mix with a spoon to combine everything , then work with your hands until you obtain a homogeneous mixture. Add the salt and knead again to incorporate it uniformly. Place the obtained dough in the bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let rise for about 2 hours .
After the rising time , take the green dough and roll it out on a lightly floured work surface to form a rectangle of about 16x11 inches with a thickness of 0.04 inches . Also roll out the neutral dough to obtain a rectangle of the same measurements and place it on top of the green one .
Lastly, roll out the red dough, place it on the white one, and press the 3 rectangles together by pressing with the rolling pin . With a smooth-bladed knife, cut the tricolor rectangle into strips 0.4 inches wide , then cut them in half to obtain strips about 5.5 inches long. Twist each strip by turning the ends in opposite directions and slightly lengthening it .
Place the breadsticks on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, brush them with a little water , and garnish with sesame seeds . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 20 minutes. Your tricolor breadsticks are ready to be enjoyed !
The tricolor breadsticks can be kept for 3-4 days in a paper bag. They can be frozen after being cooked and completely cooled.
To make the green dough, you can use blended fresh basil instead of spinach: the color will be less bright, but the aroma will be wonderful! If you wish, you can flavor the doughs with thyme leaves, chopped rosemary, or black pepper. Instead of twisting the breadsticks, alternatively, you can form 3 different colored ropes and then roll them with the palms of your hands on the work surface to join them.

