name:
Flatbread with shrimp, zucchini flowers, and salad
ingredients:
Flatbread: 4- super flaky
Zucchini flowers: 3.5oz(100 g)- to clean
Shrimps: 12
Radishes: 1.8oz(50 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1.6cups(400 g)
Valerian (songino): 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Chives: to taste
Lemon juice: 1
Sweet Paprika: ½tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Raspberries: 0.3cup(45 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 40

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 4 pieces

instructions:
To prepare the flatbread with shrimp, zucchini flowers, and salad, first make the cream: in a bowl, pour the well-drained ricotta, the chopped chives , and then season with salt, oil, and pepper. Stir to flavor and store in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap. Now wash and quarter the radishes .
Clean the zucchini flowers, then remove the leaves at the base and the internal pistils . Then cut them into strips .
In a bowl, place the already washed and dried mache, the radishes , and the zucchini flowers. Season with oil and salt and set aside.
Make the sauce: in a tall-edged glass, pour the raspberries and the oil and blend everything with an immersion blender to obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream. Salt and set aside .
Now clean the shrimp: remove the head and the shell , then cut the back to remove the intestinal vein .
Place the cleaned shrimp in a bowl, marinate with lemon juice , oil , and paprika for 20 minutes.
After this time, take the shrimp and sear them in a hot pan for a few moments , pour in the marinade sauce .
Let the liquids evaporate and then keep them warm. Heat the flatbreads for a couple of minutes in a pan . Everything is ready for the filling, for each flatbread use 1/4 of the ingredients provided for the filling: spread the ricotta cream on half of the flatbread .
Distribute the salad and the shrimp on top, then drizzle with the raspberry sauce . Serve the flatbread with shrimp, zucchini flowers, and salad immediately .
We recommend consuming the flatbread with shrimp, zucchini flowers, and salad immediately.
If you do not like the taste of chives, you can use thyme to flavor the ricotta cream, making the taste more delicate.

