name:
Coffee Cookies
ingredients:
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- approximately 2 medium
Coffee: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Sugar: 0.67cup(125 g)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(100 g)
Potato starch: 3 ¾tbsp(30 g)
Baking powder: 1.7tsp(8 g)
Coffee: 1.5oz(40 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(200 g)
Dark chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the coffee cookies, place the whole eggs and sugar in a large bowl, beat with electric whisks until you get a light and homogeneous mixture. At this point, pour the liquid coffee prepared with the moka pot at room temperature and continue to beat with the electric whisks.
The mixture should be well blended . Sift flour, corn starch, and baking powder through a sieve and incorporate them into the mixture one tablespoon at a time . Mix with the whisks at low speed.
The mixture will be quite creamy . Now line a baking sheet with parchment paper, transfer the batter into a piping bag with a plain nozzle with a 0.4-inch diameter. Squeeze discs about 1.2 inches in diameter , spacing them apart, as they will spread slightly during baking. With these quantities, you will get about 80 wafers .
Bake the cookies in a static preheated oven at 356°F for 10 minutes. Bake one tray at a time, keeping the batter at room temperature. Once baked, remove the cookies from the oven and let them cool . In the meantime, prepare the cream: chop the dark chocolate and melt it in a double boiler or in the microwave. In a saucepan, heat the cream and the coffee made with the moka pot .
When the mixture reaches a boil, remove it from the heat and pour it over the melted chocolate in three steps, stirring with a spatula . You should obtain a rather dense cream . Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate to harden for 30 minutes.
After this time, place the cream in a piping bag with a 0.24-inch star nozzle and squeeze a tuft onto the flat side of the cookies . Close with another cookie, always leaving the flat side facing the cream .
To finish, decorate the cookies: place a strip of parchment paper over half of the surface and sprinkle the uncovered half with powdered sugar . Gently remove the paper, and you will get a lovely two-tone effect . The coffee cookies are ready to be enjoyed !
The coffee cookies keep in the fridge for a couple of days.
To make the cream more aromatic, you can add coffee liqueur. Have fun creating different patterns with DIY stencils and powdered sugar!

