name:
Cod with Asparagus
ingredients:
Desalted cod: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Asparagus: 1.1lbs(500 g)- to clean
Water: ½cup(120 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Chives: to taste
Fresh ginger: 0.7oz(20 g)
Lemon juice: 1
White wine: 0.42cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the cod with asparagus, first wash the asparagus, then cut off the white, tougher part . Take half of the asparagus and cut them into coarse pieces . Peel the ginger and slice it thinly .
In a pan, pour the olive oil , heat it, then add the asparagus pieces , the sliced ginger ,
then salt and pepper. Sauté for a couple of minutes and then cover with 1/2 cup of water . Cook over low heat for about 10 minutes .
Transfer the asparagus to a tall glass and blend with an immersion blender to obtain a smooth cream . Set aside and take care of the cod.
Take the pre-soaked and deboned cod and cut it into coarse pieces . In a pan, heat the oil with two cloves of garlic in their skins .
Sauté for a few minutes and then deglaze first with lemon juice and then with wine . Let it evaporate, then season with salt and pepper, and continue cooking for 20 minutes over medium heat. Meanwhile, take the other half of the asparagus set aside, peel the stalks with a vegetable peeler .
Cut thin strips of asparagus by slicing them lengthwise . Heat a drizzle of olive oil in a pan and then braise the asparagus here for 3-4 minutes until golden .
Meanwhile, the cod will be cooked , remove the flesh in coarse pieces and place it in a bowl . Season with olive oil ,
chopped chives and pepper, then mix to season. Everything is ready to serve: place the cod in the center of a plate, along with the sautéed asparagus and creamy asparagus . Garnish with pieces of chives and serve immediately .
Store the cod with asparagus in the fridge and consume within 2 days. The cream can be frozen.
Enjoy the cod with asparagus served on toasted bread: spread the cream on the base, lay the cod flesh, and finish by garnishing with the braised asparagus strips.

