name:
Savory Colomba
ingredients:
Whole grain flour: 1cup(125 g)
Manitoba flour: 1cup(125 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(50 g)
Honey: 1tbsp(20 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.2oz(7 g)
Eggs: 1.9oz(55 g)- (about 1)
Whole milk: 0.3cup(75 g)- at room temperature
Water: 0.3cup(75 g)- at room temperature
Butter: 4tbsp(55 g)
Sweet Pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Provolone cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Dried tomatoes: 1.5oz(40 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¼tsp(7 g)
Chives: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Egg whites: ⅛cup(37 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Peeled almonds: to taste
Peanuts: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note plus 4 hours of leavening

instructions:
To prepare the savory colomba, start by making the dough. Pour the whole wheat flour , the all-purpose flour , and the bread flour into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a hook attachment. Add the crumbled yeast ,
the honey and the milk . Start kneading
then also pour in the water and continue to work. Slowly incorporate the eggs and when they are well blended, add the salt
and the first piece of butter . Continue kneading everything at moderate speed, adding the butter little by little until the dough is well bonded . Then detach it from the hook
and transfer the dough to another bowl, trying to give it a spherical shape (13-14). Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for 2 hours at room temperature.
When almost two hours have passed, take the bacon. Cut it into cubes about 1/4 inch large , then transfer them to a pan and sauté over medium heat for 5 minutes . Set aside and let cool.
Meanwhile, cut the provolone into cubes , chop the aromatic herbs , and cut the sun-dried tomatoes into pieces .
When the dough is well risen , transfer it to a lightly floured surface and spread it out gently with your hands .
Place bacon, provolone, sun-dried tomatoes, and the aromatic herbs in the center . Close the dough and knead it to incorporate all the ingredients .
Then divide it in half and shape each portion into two logs about 12 inches long . Place the first one in the mold to form the wings ,
and then place the second on top to form the body of the dove (31-32). Cover with a cloth and let rise for another 2 hours. At this point, you can prepare the glaze. In a bowl, pour the egg whites, grated cheese
and beat everything with a whisk ; finally, also incorporate the pepper and mix one last time. Take the colomba that has risen and spread the glaze obtained over the entire surface
Sprinkle some almonds and some peanuts as well. Then bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for 50 minutes, placing it on the lower shelf and placing another baking sheet on top, so as not to over-brown the glaze. Always do the toothpick test before removing from the oven and let your savory colomba cool before serving .
The savory colomba keeps for 2 days under a glass dome, at room temperature.
You can substitute the bacon with another type of cold cut. If you use cooked ham, there's no need to sauté it in the pan.
You can also use another type of cheese instead of provolone!

