name:
Bocconotti
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)- cold
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 2.1oz(60 g)- (about 1 medium) at room temperature
Egg yolks: 0.7oz(20 g)- (approximately 1 medium) at room temperature
Baking powder: 1tsp
Cinnamon powder: ¼tsp
Black grapes: 2 ½cups(500 g)- (seedless)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Almond flour: ½cup(50 g)
Dark chocolate: 1.8oz(50 g)
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 7 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 1 h of resting the pastry dough in the refrigerator

instructions:
To make bocconotti, first prepare the Black Grape Jam : detach the grapes from the cluster, wash them thoroughly under running water, then open them with a small knife and remove the seeds . Transfer the seedless grapes to a saucepan and cook over medium heat for about 20 minutes, stirring often to break them down .
After this time, pass the grapes through a food mill to extract the juice and some pulp . Put the puree back in the saucepan, add the sugar , stir and cook over low heat until it reaches a temperature of 226°F: it will take about 20 minutes, but it is advisable to check with a cooking thermometer . At this point, set aside 270 g of jam that you will need for the recipe and let it cool; if there is any leftover jam, you can store it in the refrigerator in a jar.
Proceed to prepare the pastry: pour the sifted flour into a large bowl along with the sugar , baking powder , cold butter cut into pieces
and cinnamon , then start working the dough with your fingertips to turn it into crumbs and avoid warming it too much . Now add the whole egg
and the egg yolk and mix everything well, then transfer the mixture to the work surface and continue kneading until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough. Form a loaf, wrap it in plastic wrap, and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least an hour .
In the meantime, return to preparing the filling: take the jam, add the almond flour and the dark chocolate that you have previously chopped with a knife and mix well . Keep the filling in the refrigerator for the duration of the pastry's resting time.
After this time, lightly flour both the work surface and the dough and roll it out to a thickness of about a quarter inch . Using the bocconotti mold directly, with an upper diameter of 3 inches , cut out a total of 7 discs , kneading and rolling out again even the scraps.
Then cut out another 7 discs, this time using a cookie cutter with a diameter of 3.5 inches . At this point, butter the molds and place the smaller pastry disc (3 inches in diameter) on the bottom, making it adhere well to the sides too , then add about 2 teaspoons of filling .
Finally, cover the molds with the larger pastry disc (3.5 inches in diameter) and pinch the edges together to seal them . Transfer the molds onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 20 minutes.
After the cooking time, take the bocconotti out of the oven and let them cool slightly , then gently remove them from the molds and sprinkle them with powdered sugar . Your wonderful bocconotti are ready to be enjoyed !
Bocconotti can be stored at room temperature for about 4-5 days, preferably under a glass dome. You can freeze the bocconotti after they are cooked and cooled. You can also freeze the raw pastry, wrapped in plastic wrap.
The leftover jam can be stored in the refrigerator and should be consumed within a maximum of 3-4 days.
As mentioned in the presentation, there are many variants of this regional dessert: one of these involves using unsweetened cocoa instead of dark chocolate, or adding toasted and chopped almonds as an alternative to almond flour... try experimenting and choose your favorite bocconotti version!
It is believed that the term "bocconotto" refers to the fact that the pastries were originally small enough to be eaten in one bite, although in more recent times they have been preferred to be made larger, like the ones found now. The only certainty, however, is that the word "bocconotto" first appears in the 1930 Abruzzese Dictionary by Domenico Bielli with the following definition: " Buccunotte : round-shaped pastry with a filling of honey, cream, chocolate, whipped cream, or other."
Homemade preparation of preserves and jams may pose health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of food, which industrial procedures, on the other hand, are able to ensure to prevent dangerous contamination. Therefore, it is important to strictly follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it must always be remembered that the same food safety can never be achieved as with preserves and jams produced at a professional level. For correct preparation of homemade preserves, please refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

