name:
Shortcrust Flower Cookies with Filling
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Butter: 4.5oz(125 g)
Eggs: 1
Lemon peel: ½
Pineapple jam: ½cup(145 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus the resting time for the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
To prepare the shortcrust flower cookies with filling, first, make the dough. Place the flour in a mixer and add the cold butter cut into pieces . Pulse the blades until you get a sandy mixture. Turn off the blades and add the powdered sugar
along with the lightly beaten egg and the grated lemon zest . Pulse the food processor again for a few moments, this time lowering the speed so the blades mix the dough without blending .
As soon as the mixture is combined , transfer it to the work surface . Quickly compact it with your hands, so that gluten does not develop, just enough time to obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough. Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
At this point, take it out and roll it out on a lightly floured surface until it is half a centimeter thick . Using a 2-inch flower-shaped cookie cutter, cut out the first shape ,
then continue this way until you have 60 flowers . You can knead the leftover dough and continue to use it. Take one of the flowers, brush the perimeter with a brush dipped in water . Place half a teaspoon of pineapple jam in the center
Cover with a second flower and apply slight pressure on the edges to seal them well .
As you go, transfer the cookies onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Then bake the shortcrust flower cookies with filling in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 22 minutes. They should be slightly golden. At this point, take them out of the oven and let them cool before moving and serving them .
Store the cookies in an airtight container for 4-5 days. Shortcrust pastry can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days. Alternatively, it can be frozen for up to 1 month.
Instead of lemon zest, you can flavor the shortcrust with ginger, nutmeg, or vanilla.

