name:
5-Minute Ricotta Cake
ingredients:
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.9cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Butter: 0.9cup(200 g)
Eggs: 3
Baking powder: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Orange peel: 1
Rum: 1oz(30 g)
Pistachios: ½cup(100 g)- shelled
Peeled almonds: 0.7cup(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(200 g)
Dark chocolate: 5oz(140 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Ground pistachio: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the 5-minute ricotta cake, place all the batter ingredients into a mixer: start with the flour and sugar , then continue with the baking powder and salt .
Next, add the peeled almonds and shelled pistachios . Incorporate the butter cut into pieces
and the whole eggs , then flavor with rum and grated orange zest . Blend the ingredients until fully combined.
Finally, add the well-drained ricotta , blend again to obtain a homogeneous batter . Butter and flour a 9-inch mold, pour the batter here
And level the surface with a spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 50 minutes. Once baked, remove the cake from the oven and let it cool slightly. Meanwhile, prepare the coating: pour the cream into a saucepan and heat it until just before boiling.
At this point, pour the hot cream over the dark chocolate: we used chocolate chips, but if you have a chocolate bar, you can chop it first . Stir with a whisk to melt it and create a cream. Incorporate the butter cut into pieces and stir again until you obtain a fluid sauce .
Flip the cake onto a cooling rack and cover it entirely with the chocolate sauce . Finally, sprinkle chopped pistachios on the surface . The 5-minute ricotta cake is ready to be enjoyed .

Store the 5-minute ricotta cake in the refrigerator for a couple of days. It is possible to freeze the baked cake without the coating.
For the chocolate sauce, we used chocolate chips, but you can use chopped dark chocolate. We recommend draining the ricotta thoroughly to prevent it from releasing water into the batter.

