name:
Gee Pie
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: ½cup(130 g)- at room temperature
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
White wine vinegar: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Chard: 7 ½cups(270 g)
Yogurt: 0.7cup(170 g)
Marjoram: 2sprigs
Type 00 flour: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 40 min. of dough resting time

instructions:
To prepare the gee pie, the first thing to do is make the crazy dough: pour the sifted flour into a bowl and add the salt , then pour in the vinegar , the room temperature water , and start kneading with your hands until you get a homogeneous mixture.
Also, pour in the oil in a thin stream while continuing to knead , then transfer the mixture onto a work surface and work it until you get a smooth dough . Shape it into a sphere, cover it with plastic wrap , and let the crazy dough rest at room temperature for 40 minutes.
Meanwhile, prepare the filling: wash the Swiss chard , remove the stems, and cut only the leaves into thin strips . Then take the well-drained ricotta and mix it with the yogurt .
Add the marjoram and mix to obtain a homogeneous cream . Take the dough after resting and divide it into 2 equal parts .
Roll out a sheet with a rolling pin that is larger than the baking pan: we used a 1.2-inch-high pan measuring 9 inches in diameter at the bottom and 9.5 inches at the edge . Grease the pan and lay the dough sheet over it; you can help yourself by wrapping the dough around the rolling pin and then unrolling it over the pan .
Fill the base with the Swiss chard . Salt and sprinkle the flour over the Swiss chard to absorb excess water that the chard would release during cooking.
Now cover with the ricotta cream , leveling the surface well with the back of a spoon . Roll out the other half of the crazy dough with the rolling pin .
When you have obtained a sheet slightly larger than the pan , gently lay it over the pie dish to cover it .
Roll the edge to seal the filling inside . Brush the surface with oil and poke holes with a fork to prevent it from puffing excessively during cooking. Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 50 minutes. Once cooked, remove the gee pie from the oven and let it cool slightly before serving .
The gee pie can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. It can also be frozen both cooked and uncooked.
To achieve the right filling consistency, we recommend using fresh cheeses with a creamy texture. The leftover Swiss chard stems can become a tasty side dish: sauté them in a pan with oil, garlic, anchovies, and a pinch of chili pepper!

