name:
Mexican Eggs
ingredients:
Eggs: 4
Red peppers: 3cups(500 g)
Red onions: 1
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Oregano: to taste- dry
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Tomato purée: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare Mexican eggs, first trim and slice the onion . Cut off the tops of the peppers, remove the green stem and also remove the seeds. Cut the peppers in half and with a small knife remove the white veins . Then slice them lengthwise into thin strips .
Place the garlic clove on the cutting board and crush it with a knife without peeling it , this way it will release its aroma better. Chop the hot chili pepper into small pieces . In a large pan, pour the 3 tablespoons of olive oil, add the garlic, the chili pepper
and the onion , sauté everything over medium heat, stirring often . When they are wilted ,
add the pepper strips , adjust with salt and pepper, and add a pinch of dried oregano . Cook over medium heat for about 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. When the peppers are soft, you can pour in the tomato sauce and continue cooking over low heat for about 15 minutes, stirring.
Finally, remove the garlic clove . The sauce is ready , distribute it in 4 ovenproof cocottes 2 inches high and 4 inches in diameter .
With a spoon, create a cavity in the center of each . Crack the eggs one at a time into a small bowl , transfer them into the pepper cavity and season with salt and pepper.
The cocottes are ready to be baked : bake them in a preheated static oven at 350°F on the middle rack for about 10/12 minutes. The egg whites should be cooked and the yolks soft. After baking, garnish with fresh parsley and serve the Mexican eggs immediately .
Mexican eggs can be prepared in advance (without the eggs) and baked before serving. They keep in the fridge for 1 day after cooking, just reheat them in the oven before consumption or enjoy them at room temperature.
Accompany the Mexican eggs with typical tortillas and if you like, you can garnish the dish with fresh cilantro instead of parsley.

