name:
Pork meatballs in pumpkin cream
ingredients:
Eggs: 1
Pork: 1.1lbs(500 g)- minced
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Bread: 2.5oz(70 g)- crumb
Pumpkin: 3cups(700 g)- to be cleaned
White onions: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Thyme: to taste- dry
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the meatballs in pumpkin cream, first work on the meatball mixture: soak the bread crumbs in water until they are softened . Then place the ground meat, grated cheese , and dried thyme in a bowl.
Incorporate the egg , the soaked and squeezed bread , a pinch of salt, and then mix with your hands to blend the mixture.
When the mixture is homogeneous and compact , take a small portion and form meatballs about 1.5 inches in diameter . With these quantities, you'll get around 15 meatballs .
Keep the meatballs in the fridge and work on the cream: slice the pumpkin and remove the skin. Cut the pumpkin into cubes , then clean and chop the onion . Pour the vegetable oil into a pan .
and add the chopped onion , sauté over moderate heat for a few minutes, then add the pumpkin cubes . Pour a little water , just enough to prevent the pumpkin from sticking.
Add fragrance with sage leaves , cover with a lid and cook for 10 minutes. At the end of cooking, the pumpkin will be soft .
Transfer it to a mixer and blend to obtain a cream . Place the cream back in the pan, add the meatballs (21-22).
Continue cooking for 25 minutes, turning the meatballs and adding more water if the sauce dries out too much. Once cooked , serve the meatballs hot .
Store the pork meatballs in pumpkin cream in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to three days once cooked. You can freeze the meatballs after cooking if you have used fresh ingredients.
You can vary or enrich the meatball mixture with your preferred ingredients: provola cheese, salami, beef, pecorino cheese, or even a crushed garlic clove!

