name:
Ravioli with cheese and egg cream
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(210 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 5.75oz(165 g)- (about 3)
Whole milk: 1.67cups(400 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(100 g)
Cornstarch: 6 ¼tbsp(50 g)
Egg yolks: 8tbsp(120 g)- (about 6)
Pecorino cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 7oz(25 g)
Jowls: 7.1oz(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Sage: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 60 pieces
Cost: High
Note + 30 minutes of resting for the fresh pasta

instructions:
To prepare the ravioli with cheese and egg cream, start with the fresh pasta. In a bowl, pour the flour , the semolina , and the eggs .
Quickly mix with a fork and then transfer the mixture to a pastry board. Then knead briefly by hand to obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough. If necessary, add a few drops of room temperature water to make kneading easier if it's too dry. Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature for about half an hour.
Meanwhile, prepare the filling. Heat the milk and cream without bringing them to a boil. In the meantime, sift the cornstarch into a bowl , add the Parmesan
and the Pecorino ; mix with a whisk and then add the egg yolks and whisk everything together .
At this point, the liquids will be hot, use them to temper the mixture . Once diluted, put it back in the pot and cook for a few minutes, stirring continuously with the whisk .
As soon as the cream has thickened, transfer it to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap in contact , and let it cool completely. Then transfer it to a piping bag without a tip. At this point, the pasta should be well-rested; remove the plastic wrap and cut off a piece and cover the remaining part with plastic wrap. Flatten the piece taken using a pinch of flour .
Pass the dough through the rollers of a pasta machine , starting from the largest thickness and proceeding to the smallest, or until you have a sheet 0.5 mm thick. If necessary, add a pinch of flour and fold the sheet to make it as linear as possible. You can also cut the sheet if you think it's becoming too long and difficult to work with . Once you have obtained a rectangle 0.5 mm thick, prepare another one. Then squeeze the filling into dollops about the size of a walnut, ensuring they are spaced apart .
Then lightly moisten the sheet if it should have dried too much , and cover with the second layer of pasta . Match them well, using your fingertips to push the air out of the ravioli .
Finally, cut the dough with a 6 cm scalloped cutter . Repeat until you have used all the ingredients: you should get 60-70 ravioli in total. As you make them, place them on a rack or on a tray with parchment paper, dusted with semolina, to let them dry for a very short time. At this point, you just need to make the dressing. Clean the guanciale from the rind at the base ,
slice it thinly and cut it into pieces about 1 cm thick . In a large pan with some already hot oil, heat the sage leaves, then add the pieces of guanciale and let them sweat for 4-5 minutes over moderate heat, stirring occasionally. Meanwhile, boil the pasta in salted boiling water . It will cook in a couple of minutes at most.
Then pour a little water into the pan and then drain the ravioli. Sauté them briefly, adding more water if needed . Plate and serve your ravioli with cheese and egg cream immediately .
It is recommended to consume the ravioli immediately, as storing them cooked might cause them to lose consistency. However, if you prefer, you can keep them in the refrigerator for a day, covered with plastic wrap. Raw, they can be stored in the refrigerator for a day by keeping them between two sheets of parchment paper placed between two trays. The best way to store them, however, is by freezing: keep them on a tray in the freezer for half an hour, and once hardened a bit, place them in freezer bags.
For an additional aromatic and crunchy touch to the dish, toast some nuts like hazelnuts or almonds and flavor the dish. Finally, for a less intense flavor, you can prepare the cream with half Pecorino and half Parmesan.

