name:
Savory Tasty Donuts
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 3cups(375 g)
Water: 0.8cup(185 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 4 ½tbsp(55 g)
Vegetable oil: 3tbsp(45 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 2.6oz(75 g)
Peas: 0.4cup(60 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 1.1oz(30 g)
Taggiasca olives: ¼cup(30 g)- pitted
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + rising times (at least 2 h and 20 min.)

instructions:
To make the savory tasty donuts, first prepare the dough: pour the flour, sugar , and yeast into the bowl of a stand mixer with a dough hook. Start mixing the ingredients at low speed and pour in half of the total amount of water .
As soon as you see the mixture coming together, add the salt and the remaining water . Finally, add the seed oil and let the mixer run for 5 minutes.
When the dough clings to the hook , remove it and transfer it to a work surface. Quickly shape it with your hands and give it a round of folds, bringing the four ends towards the center: first the right, then the left, bottom, and top . Finally, round the dough by turning it with your hands on the work surface until you get a smooth and even ball . Place the dough in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let it rise in a dry place at a temperature of 79°F-82°F for about 2 hours, or until doubled in volume.
In the meantime, you can prepare the filling: heat the oil in a small pan with a clove of garlic in its skin that you have previously crushed with the palm of your hand, then add the peas and a pinch of salt. Cook for 2-3 minutes on medium-high heat, then remove the garlic and let it cool. On a cutting board, place the olives and drained sun-dried tomatoes and chop them finely .
Then cut the scamorza into cubes of about half an inch . Transfer the chopped olives and sun-dried tomatoes into a bowl along with the cheese and peas and mix everything well .
After the rising time, the dough will have doubled in volume , so roll it out on a lightly floured work surface to form a rectangle of 24x12 inches . Spread the filling evenly over the entire surface .
Gently roll the dough from the longer side of the rectangle . Divide the obtained roll into 4 equal parts and slightly stretch each piece to extend it further .
Cut it in half lengthwise with a sharp knife , then braid the two parts, making sure to turn the inner sides up so that the filling is visible (23-24).
Finally, join the ends to form a donut . Repeat the operation for the other 3 pieces and place the obtained donuts on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Let them rest at room temperature for about 20 minutes , then bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 25-30 minutes. When they're beautifully golden, your savory tasty donuts are ready to be served !
The savory tasty donuts can be stored in an airtight food bag away from air and moisture for up to 2-3 days. They can be frozen either cooked or raw.
If you want to make the donuts more golden, you can brush the surface with a little oil before baking them; additionally, you can add sesame or poppy seeds. Feel free to vary the filling using the ingredients you prefer: for a vegan version, for example, you can omit the scamorza and replace it with seasonal vegetables!

