name:
Rice pie with broccoli rabe and sausage
ingredients:
Broccoli rabe: 2 ½cups(200 g)
Salamella sausage: 0.88lb(400 g)
Carnaroli rice: 2cups(400 g)
Eggs: 7.4oz(210 g)- (approximately 4)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)
Fontina cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)
Saffron: 1bag
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Breadcrumbs: 5tbsp(40 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3spoonfuls- grated
Breadcrumbs: 3spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the rice pie with broccoli rabe and salamella, first, take care of cleaning the broccoli rabe. With a knife, remove the outer part, which is the hardest . Then cut the leaves in half and wash them under running water .
Transfer the broccoli rabe to a pot, add water to cover them, and salt . Stir and cook for about 10-15 minutes . In the meantime, move on to the sausage, cut them lengthwise and remove the casing .
Then, with a knife, cut the sausage into pieces . Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the sausage and brown it for about 5 minutes .
At this point, drain the broccoli rabe and sauté them in a pan with garlic and oil for a few moments .
Cook the rice in salted boiling water . Meanwhile, pour the saffron into a bowl, add a couple of tablespoons of the rice cooking water , and stir to dissolve it .
Also cut the Fontina cheese into cubes and set aside . When the rice is cooked (you can follow the instructions on the package), drain it and transfer it to a bowl. Let it cool slightly, then add the eggs ,
the grated cheese , the salt , the pepper ,
nutmeg , and the Fontina cubes . Stir with a spoon ,
then incorporate the dissolved saffron and stir again . Butter and line with breadcrumbs a 9x8-inch baking dish .
Pour half of the rice into the baking dish , level the surface with a spoon , and add the cooked sausage .
Spread it over the entire surface, then add the broccoli rabe and do the same. Cover with the remaining rice, level the surface again
and garnish it with the grated cheese and breadcrumbs . Bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 30 minutes. Then remove from the oven and let it cool slightly before serving .
The rice pie with broccoli rabe and sausage can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4-5 days. We recommend reheating it in the oven or microwave before serving.
Instead of broccoli rabe, you can use chard or spinach.

