name:
Celery Balls
ingredients:
Celery: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (to clean)
Bread: 7oz(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Eggs: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Tomato purée: 3.1cups(750 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Vegetable oil: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the celery balls, first, bring a pot of salted water to a boil which you will use to blanch the celery, and work on the tomato sauce: heat the oil in a pan and lightly fry the unpeeled garlic cloves, then add the tomato puree and season with salt . Cover with a lid and cook for about 30 minutes on a moderate flame, stirring occasionally. At the end of cooking, remove the garlic cloves and adjust the salt if necessary.
While the sauce is cooking, start preparing the balls: remove the base of the celery stalk and the leaves, then wash the stalks, remove the strings with a peeler , and cut them into chunks . You will need about 14 oz of cleaned celery in total.
At this point, the water will have come to a boil, so blanch the celery for about 10 minutes . Meanwhile, cut the bread into large pieces and chop it with a mixer to reduce it to crumbs .
Drain the celery and let it cool slightly , then chop it with a knife and squeeze it with your hands to remove excess water .
Transfer the celery to a bowl and add the grated Parmesan cheese , about 6 oz of chopped bread , the egg , salt, and pepper.
Knead with your hands to mix everything and shape into balls the size of a large walnut . Roll the obtained balls in the remaining bread crumbs to coat them evenly and place them on a tray .
Heat the seed oil to a temperature of 340°F (measure with a kitchen thermometer) and fry 3-4 pieces at a time for a couple of minutes until they are golden brown, then drain them on parchment paper . Serve the celery balls on a bed of tomato sauce and garnish with plenty of chopped parsley !
It is recommended to consume the balls immediately after frying. If you prefer, you can prepare them the day before and store them in the refrigerator to fry just before serving. Alternatively, they can be frozen unbaked after being breaded. The tomato sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in an airtight container.
If you wish, and you are not vegetarian, you can also serve the celery balls with a good meat ragù! Do not throw away the celery leaves but use them to prepare other recipes, such as Cold Pasta with Zucchini .

