name:
Angel cake with coffee
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(160 g)
Egg whites: 2cups(480 g)- (about 12)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(270 g)
Coffee: 5tsp(25 g)- (from the moka pot)
Cream of tartar: 1 ½tsp(6 g)
Fine salt: ¾tsp(4 g)
Dark chocolate: 7.1oz(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Coffee: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)- (from the moka)
Coffee beans: to taste- toasted

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time

instructions:
To prepare the coffee angel cake, first make the coffee and let it cool. Secondly, carefully separate the egg whites from the yolks and ensure that the tools for beating the egg whites are perfectly clean. Pour the egg whites into a mixing bowl for bain-marie cooking , turn on the heat to low, and gently stir with a whisk to bring them to a temperature of 113°F, measured with a kitchen thermometer ; alternatively, you can warm the egg whites in the microwave at maximum power for 5-6 seconds at a time.
Once the temperature is reached, pour the egg whites into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment and start beating at medium speed. As soon as the egg whites begin to become white, gradually add the sugar while keeping the mixer running . At this point, also add the salt and coffee and continue working until it is completely incorporated and you have obtained a puffy and frothy mixture.
In a separate bowl, sift together the flour and cream of tartar. Add the dry ingredients to the egg white mixture, one spoonful at a time , stirring gently from bottom to top with a whisk or spatula to prevent it from deflating . Take an angel cake or chiffon cake mold (bottom diameter 8.66 inches, top diameter 10.24 inches, height 3.94 inches) and fill it with the obtained mixture; there's no need to butter and flour the mold .
Gently level the mixture with a spatula, being careful not to shake or hit the mold to prevent it from deflating , and bake the angel cake in a preheated static oven at 374°F for 30-35 minutes. After the baking time, check with a toothpick and take out the cake , then invert the mold on the work surface, resting it on the appropriate feet : this way it will cool without deflating.
Once completely cool, gently run the blade of a knife along the sides of the mold to detach it more easily and unmold the cake onto a wire rack under which you have placed a tray . At this point, you can take care of the coating: chop the dark chocolate and transfer it to a bowl,
then pour the cream and coffee into a saucepan . When the mixture comes to a boil, add it to the chopped chocolate and stir well to combine everything .
Pour the glaze thus obtained over the surface of the cake and spread it with a spatula, letting it flow down the sides as well , then decorate with roasted coffee beans and let it rest for at least 5 minutes to allow the coating to crystallize: your delicious coffee angel cake is ready to be served !
The coffee angel cake can be stored at room temperature for about 2 days, preferably covered with a cake dome. Freezing is not recommended.
In this recipe, it is preferable to use cream of tartar because it will allow you to achieve an extremely soft and light texture: however, if you cannot find it, you can replace it with the same amount of baking powder. The same goes for the mold: the specific angel or chiffon cake mold will guarantee an optimal result, but in its absence, you can use a bundt pan of the same size, which in this case should be buttered and floured. Don't throw away the remaining yolks, but use them to make a delicious Pastry cream with which you can also accompany the cake!

