name:
Rose-shaped Brioche Bread
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)- at room temperature, but still pliable
Whole milk: 0.3cup(70 g)
Water: 1 ¾tbsp(28 g)
Sugar: 4 ½tsp(18 g)
Eggs: 2.1oz(60 g)- (about 1 medium)
Egg yolks: 1 ¼cup(16 g)- (approximately 1 medium)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(13 g)
Fine salt: 1.4tsp(8 g)
Orange marmelade: 3.2oz(90 g)
Apricot jam: ¼cup(90 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the rising times (about 4 h)

instructions:
To prepare the rose-shaped brioche rolls, start by warming the milk in a saucepan: it should be lukewarm, not boiling. Add the crumbled yeast and the sugar , then stir until everything is dissolved. At this point, pour 150 g of flour into a bowl (taking from the total 300 g) and add the yeast mixture .
Knead with your hands until you get a homogeneous mixture . Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for about 1 hour to 1.5 hours maximum. As soon as the starter dough is ready ,
transfer it into the bowl of a stand mixer . Add the remaining flour and the water , then start the machine at a moderate speed.
Add the whole egg , the yolk , and the salt, then work the dough well until it begins to pull away from the sides. Then add a small piece of butter at a time ,
until it is completely absorbed and the dough wraps around the hook . Transfer the dough onto a work surface , possibly adding a little flour, and knead it until smooth and homogeneous .
Shape the dough into a sphere , transfer it into a bowl, and cover with plastic wrap . Let it rise for about 2 hours .
After this time, transfer the dough onto a work surface and, using a little flour, roll it out until it's about 1/4 inch thick .
Cover with a towel and let it rest for about ten minutes. Then, using a 4-inch cookie cutter, cut the dough to make 12 discs . With the dough scraps, you can make 4 rolls of about 2 1/4 oz each. Let them rest for about twenty minutes and bake them along with the rose-shaped rolls.
Once you have made your discs , take the first one and fill it with a teaspoon of jam, placing it only in the center . Consider that you will need to fill 6 with orange marmalade and 6 with apricot jam. At this point, use a pastry wheel to make 4 cuts to create 4 petals of the same size .
Lift the first petal , place the edges on the two adjacent petals, pressing slightly with your fingers to secure it. Fold the top slightly outward like a rose petal . Move on to the second petal, lift it and secure it on one side to the previous one and on the other to the base of the next one .
Continue in this way clockwise until you have a little rose . Continue this way and gradually place the roses in a pre-buttered muffin tin .
Top each rose with the remaining jam, placing it in the center of the petals . Beat the yolk with the milk and brush the surface of the roses . Let them rest for about 20 minutes before baking them in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 20 minutes.
After this time, remove the roses from the oven and turn them over, being careful not to burn yourself . Finish baking for another 15 minutes, then remove from the oven and serve your warm rose-shaped brioches .
Store the rose brioches under a glass dome or in a paper bag for 1-2 days. The composed but uncooked roses can be frozen, as can the cooked ones.
If you prefer, you can add chocolate chips to the dough and replace the granulated sugar with brown sugar.

