name:
Baked Cocoa Zeppole
ingredients:
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 3.3tbsp(25 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Water: ¾cup(175 g)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)
Eggs: 3.7oz(105 g)- (about 2)
Egg yolks: 1tbsp(15 g)- (about 1)
Sugar: 4 ¾tsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Orange peel: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Powdered sugar: ½cup(70 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Liquor infused cherries: 4

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 55 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the baked cocoa zeppole, start with the choux pastry. In a saucepan, pour the water , the butter cut into pieces , the sugar ,
the orange zest and a pinch of salt . Heat everything over low heat until it just comes to a boil. Meanwhile, in a bowl, sift the all-purpose flour
and the cocoa and mix the powders. As soon as the water and butter mixture comes to a simmer, start adding the powders little by little, mixing with a whisk (8-9).
As soon as they are completely absorbed, mix with a wooden spoon and continue cooking the mixture until it detaches from the sides of the saucepan . Transfer the obtained mixture to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment . Turn it on at medium speed and let it cool. Then add the egg yolk
and when it is completely absorbed, continue adding the eggs slowly . Work until you obtain a smooth and lump-free dough , then transfer it into a piping bag fitted with a 0.5 inch star tip .
Line a baking sheet with a sheet of parchment paper; to secure it, you can place two or three small blobs of dough between the parchment paper and the tray. Then create the zeppole, for each you will need to make two rounds, one on top of the other, to create a circle about 4 inches in diameter (16-17). Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 30 minutes, then switch to fan mode and bake for another 15 minutes. After this time, turn off the oven and leave the zeppole inside for 10-15 minutes. Remember that every oven is different, so you can slightly reduce the necessary time. At this point, remove the cocoa zeppole from the oven
and let them cool completely on a wire rack . At this point, you can work on the filling. In a bowl, pour the cream and add the vanilla bean seeds . Start whipping with electric beaters, adding the sugar little by little
until the cream is whipped . Transfer it into a piping bag with a star nozzle . At this point, take the zeppole and cut them in half .
Fill the bottom part of the zeppole with cream , cover with the top part and finish by placing a generous dollop of cream in the center .
Garnish with a maraschino cherry , dust with powdered sugar and serve your baked cocoa zeppole .
The unfrosted zeppole can be stored for up to 1 week in a tin box. Once filled, we recommend storing them in the refrigerator and consuming them within 1-2 days at most. We do not recommend storing the raw dough.
We suggest opting for a baked version, as fried might taste bitter due to the cocoa added to the dough.
Instead of maraschino cherries, you can use candied cherries.
If you prefer, you can flavor the cream with a bit of coffee and decorate with chocolate shavings.

