name:
Angel cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(160 g)
Egg whites: 2cups(480 g)- (about 12)
Cream of tartar: 1tsp(6 g)- (or the same amount of baking powder)
Sugar: 1 ⅓cup(270 g)
Almond extract: 1tsp- bitter
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: ¾tsp(4 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the angel cake, make sure the tools for whipping the egg whites are perfectly clean and free of any fat traces. Carefully separate the egg whites from the yolks to prevent yolk traces from mixing with the whites (you can use the yolks to make a Chocolate custard cream to fill your angel cake!). Place the egg whites in a mixing bowl to proceed with cooking in a double boiler. Turn on the low heat, stir with a whisk, and insert a kitchen thermometer because the temperature should reach 113°F . Once the temperature is reached, pour the egg whites into the bowl of a stand mixer. Set the stand mixer to medium speed, and as soon as the egg whites start to turn white, add part of the sugar (200 g) .
At this point, pour in the almond extract and let it incorporate, then add the sifted cream of tartar . After a couple of minutes, finally add the vanilla bean seeds .
As soon as the egg whites are fluffy and foamy, stop the stand mixer . Separately, sift the flour into a bowl . Then, in the same bowl, pour the remaining sugar (70 g) and salt .
At this point, transfer the egg whites and gently fold them into the dry ingredients, mixing from top to bottom with a spatula to prevent deflating the mixture (10-11). All that's left is to pour the mixture into the classic angel cake or chiffon mold (bottom diameter 8.66 inches, top diameter 10.24 inches, height 3.94 inches) without greasing or flouring it. Gently distribute the batter, smoothing it with the back of a spoon . Bake the angel cake in a preheated static oven at 374°F for 30-35 minutes.
After the indicated time, check the angel cake with a skewer, and if it comes out dry, you can remove the cake from the oven; otherwise, bake it for a few more minutes. Remove the angel cake from the oven and invert it onto a cutting board, resting it on the special legs : this way, the cake will cool without deflating or becoming moist. Once completely cool, remove it from the mold, and with a knife blade, gently detach the base from the mold. Serve your simple angel cake accompanied by a rich chocolate pastry cream, a fruit coulis, or coated with glaze!
You can store the angel cake under a glass dome for 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
For those with a sweet tooth, this soft cake can be paired with a delicious pastry cream made with the leftover yolks! If you prefer to stick with the same white tone, how about a milk cream? It will also be delicious with a fruit coulis!

