name:
Citrus and Poppy Seed Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(280 g)
Almond flour: ½cup(50 g)
Vegetable oil: ¾cup(170 g)
Sugar: 0.8cup(160 g)
Eggs: 5.8oz(165 g)- (about 3 medium)
Orange juice: ¼cup(50 g)
Orange peel: 1
Lemon peel: 1
Poppy seeds: 6tsp(30 g)
Acacia honey: 1 ½tbsp(30 g)
Baking powder: 2 ½tsp(12 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Powdered sugar: 1.1cups(125 g)
Grand Marnier liqueur: 2tbsp(30 g)
Orange juice: 1tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the citrus and poppy seed cake, start by pouring the whole eggs, sugar , and salt in a bowl, and work the mixture with an electric whisk for about 3 minutes. Add the vegetable oil gradually while keeping the whisk running ,
then add the honey , grated orange zest , and grated lemon zest
and the poppy seeds and mix everything for a few more seconds. At this point, sift the all-purpose flour and baking powder into the bowl and use the whisk to incorporate them into the mixture.
Finally, add the orange juice and almond flour and whisk until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture. Butter and flour a 9.5-inch diameter pan
and pour the obtained mixture inside (13-14). Bake in a static preheated oven at 347°F for about 45 minutes, placing the cake pan on the middle rack. After the baking time (always do the toothpick test), take out the cake and let it cool in the pan .
In the meantime, prepare the glaze: pour the powdered sugar and Grand Marnier into a bowl, add the orange juice , and whisk until you achieve a smooth and uniform consistency.
Flip the now cooled cake onto a rack, which you should have previously placed on a sheet of parchment paper, and pour the glaze over it until the surface is fully covered . Your citrus and poppy seed cake is ready to be enjoyed !
The citrus and poppy seed cake can be stored at room temperature for about 3 days, preferably covered with a cake dome. It can be frozen, maybe already sliced.
If you wish, you can flavor the batter with a liqueur of your choice or add white chocolate chips!

