name:
Savory crepes with chanterelles and bacon
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1.9cups(450 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 0.7tsp(4 g)
Chanterelle mushrooms (chanterelle): 5oz(140 g)
Smoked pancetta: 7oz(200 g)
Fontina cheese: 6.2oz(175 g)
Red onions: 1
Thyme: 1sprig
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the crepes with chanterelles and bacon, start by melting the butter over very low heat. Allow to cool slightly, then add the milk to the eggs , beat with a whisk and pour in the cooled melted butter . Add the flour
and the salt and mix everything with the whisk: you should obtain a smooth, lump-free batter . Heat a crepe maker about 8.5 inches in diameter (or a large pan with a double bottom), grease it with a little butter spread over the surface and pour a ladle of batter in the center ;
spread it evenly with the appropriate crepe spreading spatula or by rotating the pan . Cook for a couple of minutes, just until the base is golden, then gently flip the crepe and cook the other side . As they are ready, stack the crepes on a serving plate , then set them aside covered with plastic wrap.
Move on to preparing the mushrooms: you can clean them with a dry or slightly damp cloth, then chop them with a knife . Cut the bacon into cubes, clean and chop the onion as well . Pour a drizzle of oil into a pan and sauté the onion for a few minutes over low heat, stirring occasionally until it softens.
Add the mushrooms . Stir and also add the diced bacon , the thyme leaves , and salt and pepper to taste. Cook for about 5-6 minutes: the bacon should be crispy and the mushrooms soft.
Once ready, slightly cool the filling and fill the crepes: place mushrooms and bacon on one half , add the cubed fontina cheese , then fold into a half-moon .
Grease a baking dish with a drizzle of oil and add about two tablespoons of breadcrumbs to cover the bottom . Arrange the crepes side by side, add Parmesan cheese on top, a drizzle of oil, pepper , and a few thyme leaves. Bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for about 10 minutes. Once baked, your savory crepes with chanterelles and bacon are ready to be served!
We recommend storing the crepe batter for about 12 hours in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap. The unseasoned crepes can be stored for up to 3 days covered with plastic wrap, while it is suggested to consume the cooked ones within a couple of days.
Enrich the filling with sautéed zucchini and herbs like marjoram or sage to taste. If you prefer, you can replace the fontina with sweet gorgonzola.

