name:
Fried milk
ingredients:
Whole milk: 3.3cups(800 g)
Cornstarch: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Eggs: 4
Breadcrumbs: 2cups(200 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + 12 hours of resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
To make fried milk, pour the starch , sugar , and grated lemon zest into a large bowl.
Mix these dry ingredients and set aside. In a saucepan, heat the milk , and once it is near boiling, pour it into the bowl with the dry ingredients gradually, stirring to avoid lumps.
Return everything to the pot, place over low heat, and stir constantly with a spatula or wooden spoon . When you notice the cream starting to clump and thicken , turn off the heat and stir vigorously. The cream will become smooth again away from the heat source. It is important to use a wooden spoon or spatula rather than a whisk, as whisking might break up the cream, causing it to become watery and not properly thickened during cooling. Once ready, pour and spread the cream quickly into a rectangular baking dish about 10.24x7.48 inches, lined with parchment paper .
Smooth it out well and cool it in the fridge overnight (it won't need cling wrap as it doesn't matter if a skin forms since for this recipe, the cream needs to be cold and firm). Once the cream is cold , cut it into irregular cubes about 1.57 inches . With these quantities and this mold, you'll get about 18 pieces.
Dip each piece of cream first in the beaten eggs , then in the breadcrumbs , and then again in the eggs and breadcrumbs for a double coating.
As you coat the bites, place them on a tray . Heat the oil in a pan, and when it reaches 340°F , immerse the bites . Cook a few at a time to avoid lowering the oil temperature; about 1 minute is enough.
When the bites are golden, drain them and let them dry on a tray lined with paper towels . Serve your fried milk hot .
Fried milk is best consumed immediately. It is not recommended to store it.
You can also flavor fried milk with cinnamon or orange zest and serve it with melted dark chocolate for an even more indulgent treat!

