name:
Savory pie
ingredients:
Pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)- sliced
Yellow squash: 1.9lbs(860 g)- to clean
Chanterelle mushrooms (chanterelle): 4.2oz(120 g)
Porcini mushrooms: 5oz(140 g)
Puff pastry: 1lb(460 g)- (2 rolls of 8 ounces each)
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(280 g)
Eggs: 1
Vegetable broth: to taste
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the savory pie, first, prepare the pumpkin: cut it into slices, remove the seeds , peel it, and then cut it into cubes . Next, clean the mushrooms: remove the earthy part of the porcini stems .
Then, after wiping them with a cloth to remove impurities, cut them into pieces . Clean the chanterelles in the same way and then cut them in half lengthwise . In a pan, heat a little olive oil, then add the pumpkin .
Season with a sprig of fresh thyme . Sauté the pumpkin for a few minutes and then add the mushrooms . Add a ladle of broth and continue cooking until you get a soft side dish, adding broth if necessary, for about 10 minutes.
Once the pumpkin and mushrooms are ready, turn off the heat and set aside . Heat a skillet, lay the bacon slices and cook them on high heat to make them crispy , it will take about 1-2 minutes.
In a bowl, add the well-drained ricotta and the egg . Mix with a fork to obtain a smooth cream .
Grease an 18 cm diameter pie pan and place a puff pastry sheet inside, prick the bottom with the prongs of a fork . Fill with half of the ricotta cream .
Level with the back of a spoon , lay half of the crispy bacon slices on top and cover with half of the vegetables sautéed in the pan .
Now make a second layer with the remaining cream , bacon , and vegetables, until the filling is used up. Cover the pie with another layer of puff pastry , so that the two crusts join at the edge.
Trim the excess edge and fold all the dough over the edge . Slightly press the prongs of a fork on the edge and then pierce the dough on the surface to prevent it from puffing up during baking.
In a small bowl, mix the cream and egg yolk and brush the surface of the pie with this mixture . Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 60 minutes. Once cooked, remove the savory pie from the oven and let it cool slightly before serving .
Store the savory pie in the fridge and consume it within 3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
To enrich the savory pie, add stringy cheeses, sautéed greens, and spices of your choice.

