name:
Broccoli and Salmon Meatballs
ingredients:
Salmon steaks: 5.3oz(150 g)
Broccoli: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Potatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(120 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.7oz(20 g)
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the broccoli and salmon meatballs, bring a large pot of water to a boil and season with salt to taste. Remove the florets , wash them. Then wash the potatoes as well, peel them and cut them into chunks .
Boil both the broccoli and potatoes together . Once ready, drain them and let them cool slightly. Meanwhile, clean the salmon by removing the skin with a sharp knife . Cut it into cubes, trying to make them all the same size. Heat some oil in a pan and add the salmon cubes .
Salt and sauté for about ten minutes, turning halfway through cooking. When it is cooked, let it cool slightly. Blend the broccoli and potatoes with an immersion blender until they turn into a cream .
Add the breadcrumbs and Parmesan , season with black pepper. Mix with a spoon, finally add the flour and continue to mix. The mixture should not be too soft.
Take a bit of the mixture and spread it on the palm of your hand . Place a cube of salmon in the center and close the mixture to form a meatball . Continue this way until you form about 15 meatballs.
Roll each meatball in the breadcrumbs . Place the meatballs on a baking tray lined with parchment paper. Drizzle with olive oil . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 15-20 minutes until golden . Your meatballs are ready to be enjoyed.
You can store the meatballs for 2 days in the refrigerator and reheat them as needed.
Freezing is not recommended.
As an alternative to baking, you can cook the broccoli and salmon meatballs in a pan with a little oil or fry them, ensuring they are well compacted beforehand so they do not fall apart during cooking.

