name:
Olive Loaves
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: ½cup(110 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.1oz(2.5 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 3 ½cups(420 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Green olives: 3.5oz(100 g)- pitted
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(15 g)
Fine salt: 3tsp(15 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste- for dusting the loaves

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus the rising times (about 16 hours)

instructions:
To prepare the olive loaves, first make the 'biga': in a bowl, add the flour and crumbled yeast , then gradually add the water , stirring with a wooden spoon .
When the mixture starts to come together, transfer it to a work surface and knead it with your hands for a couple of minutes , until you have a smooth dough. Shape it into a ball and let it mature at room temperature for 14 hours.
After this time, the dough will double in volume but remain compact . Break the 'biga' into pieces and place it in a stand mixer bowl with a dough hook , add a little water and start mixing at low speed.
While the mixer is running, add the crumbled yeast and the semolina , then add a bit more water ,
the oil , and the salt . Continue alternating water
and semolina until finished. Knead the dough for about 15 minutes . Meanwhile, roughly chop the olives
and add them to the bowl . Turn the mixer back on until they are incorporated into the dough .
Transfer the dough onto a work surface and cover with a bowl : let it rest for about 20 minutes. Using a dough scraper, divide the dough into 8 pieces of 5.3 oz .
Round them on the work surface and, once you have a spherical shape, place them next to each other , cover with a cloth , and let them rest for another 15 minutes.
After this time, gently shape the dough pieces into ovals . Place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, dust with flour , and let them rise for an hour. Once risen, elongate them by gently pulling the two ends with your hands
and twist them , to create loaves about 8-10 inches long. Bake in a preheated static oven at 482°F with a small pan of water at the bottom to create the right humidity. After about 25 minutes, the loaves will be golden and ready to remove from the oven . Let cool slightly and serve .
It is recommended to consume the olive loaves on the same day. Alternatively, they can be stored in a paper bag for 1-2 days or frozen after baking.
Add sun-dried tomatoes and capers to the dough as well!

