name:
Tacos with kale and shrimp
ingredients:
Flour tortillas: 4- mini
Cavolo riccio (Kale): 5 ½cups(250 g)
Precooked red beans: 1cup(240 g)- (already drained)
Shrimps: 7.1oz(200 g)- tails
Garlic: 2cloves
Lemon peel: 1
Fresh chili pepper: 2
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Water: 4tsp(20 g)- warm
Fine salt: 1tsp
Greek yogurt: 0.6cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Acacia honey: 1tsp
Chives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare tacos with kale and shrimp, start with the shrimp. Remove the shell from the shrimp tails and using a toothpick, gently extract the black vein , without breaking it. Transfer them to a bowl as you go, then season them with salt, 1 1/2 tablespoons of oil
and the lemon zest . Mix and let rest in the fridge, well covered.
Move on to the kale, cut each leaf in half first and then into strips . In a pan, heat a turn of oil along with 2 cloves of garlic and a chopped chili pepper .
Add the kale , let it cook for 1 minute, then add the hot water and stir again. Salt, cover with a lid , and let it cook for about 8 minutes.
When the kale is wilted , remove the garlic cloves and add the drained beans . Let them cook for a few minutes.
Meanwhile, prepare the sauce: pour the Greek yogurt into a bowl, add the chopped chives , honey , oil, and a pinch of salt. Mix everything together .
Set the sauce aside and proceed to cook the shrimp. Over high heat, heat a pan and add the shrimp . Wait about 1 minute, then flip them to the other side and finish cooking for another minute.
Transfer the shrimp to a plate . At this point, the kale will also be ready . Heat the first tortilla in a pan .
Transfer the tortilla to a cutting board and place some kale in the center, making sure to also grab some beans . Place the shrimp on top
and finish with the sauce . Fold the tortilla slightly in half and proceed in the same way to assemble the other tacos with kale and shrimp .
It is recommended to consume the tacos with kale and shrimp immediately. The kale can be stored in the fridge, already cooked, for no more than 1-2 days.
For a vegetarian version, you can replace the shrimp with cubes of fried tofu.

