name:
Arepas stuffed with meat
ingredients:
White Corn flour: 2.7cups(320 g)- precooked
Water: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Corn oil: 1spoonful
Fine salt: 1tsp
Beef: 3lbs(1350 g)- brisket
Onions: 0.8lb(350 g)
Red peppers: 2.3cups(350 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Water: 2.1cups(500 g)
Rum: 1.4oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Smoked paprika: 1spoonful
Powdered cumin: 1spoonful
Fine salt: 1spoonful
Black pepper: 1spoonful
Avocado: 2
Lime juice: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Fine salt: to taste
Edam cheese: 4.25oz(120 g)- to be grated
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 2 h 50 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the marinating time for the meat (at least 2 h)

instructions:
To prepare the meat-stuffed arepas, first take care of the marinade: place the brisket in a baking dish and season with salt , paprika , cumin , and pepper.
Massage the meat well on each side and let it marinate at room temperature for at least 2 hours . Meanwhile, peel the onions and the pepper and cut them into cubes (5-6).
After the marinating time, heat the oil in a saucepan and brown the meat on all sides over high heat for a total of 10 minutes (7-8). Set the meat aside momentarily and add the onions and peppers to the same saucepan, add the crushed garlic clove and mix well to flavor everything.
After about 5 minutes, deglaze with rum and let it evaporate , then return the meat to the saucepan and add the water . Cover with the lid and cook over medium heat for about 2 and a half hours.
Towards the end of the meat cooking time, you can prepare the arepas: pour the water into a bowl , add the salt and the oil and mix to dissolve the salt.
Gradually add the flour while mixing with your fingertips to combine all the ingredients until you obtain a soft but firm dough that you will let rest in the bowl for about 3 minutes .
At this point, divide the dough into 8 portions of about 3.2 oz each and form balls , then flatten them with the palm of your hand to a thickness of about 0.6 inches .
Place the obtained discs on a cutting board and shape them with your hands to achieve a regular shape . Heat a couple of tablespoons of vegetable oil in a pan and cook the arepas over medium heat for 4 minutes on one side and 3 minutes on the other : they should be golden with darker spots. After cooking them, set them aside momentarily, covering them with a towel.
When the meat is cooked, transfer it to a bowl and shred it with a fork, removing the fat and bones , then add the cooking broth with the vegetables and mix everything well .
Finally, prepare the guacamole: halve the avocados and scoop the pulp into a bowl, then add the lime juice , the oil , and the salt, and mash the mixture with a fork until a creamy consistency is obtained .
Now you are ready to assemble the sandwiches: cut the arepas in half horizontally and fill with the shredded meat , the guacamole ,
the grated edam cheese and some chopped parsley . Your meat-stuffed arepas are ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the meat-stuffed arepas as soon as they are ready. Unstuffed arepas can be frozen after cooking.
If you wish, you can substitute beef with chicken to reduce cooking time and add fresh cherry tomatoes instead of peppers. Alternatively, you can use another cheese of your choice instead of edam. If you like the flavor, try adding fresh cilantro instead of parsley!

