name:
Galantine of guinea fowl
ingredients:
Guinea fowl: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- boned
Carrots: 2
Celery: 2ribs
Yellow onions: 1
Water: 12.7cups(3 l)
Ground black pepper: 10
Fine salt: to taste
Mortadella: 4.2oz(120 g)
Pork: 4.2oz(120 g)- minced
Veal: 4.2oz(120 g)- ground
Beef tongue: 4.2oz(120 g)
Pistachios: ⅓cup(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Eggs: 1
Nutmeg: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Romaine lettuce: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 3 h 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: High
Note + 12 hours of rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the galantine of guinea fowl, first make the Vegetable broth : peel the carrot and cut it into coarse pieces , wash and cut the celery the same way , and finally peel the onion and cut it into quarters .
In a large pot, pour the vegetables , add the water and peppercorns . Bring to a boil and leave on the stove for the duration of the recipe preparation.
Cut the slice of mortadella into strips and then into cubes . Do the same with the tongue .
In a bowl, pour the ground pork, veal , and grated cheese , season with grated nutmeg
and add the egg . Start mixing the ingredients and finally incorporate the mortadella, tongue , and pistachios .
Mix again to incorporate these last ingredients . Now place a sheet of plastic wrap on a cutting board and spread the deboned guinea fowl on it, opening it like a book. Lightly flatten it with a meat mallet ,
then salt, pepper and place the previously prepared filling in the center, pressing it with your hands to give it a sausage shape . At this point, lift one side of the wrap and use it to help roll the guinea fowl .
Once the roll is formed , twist the ends of the plastic wrap to keep the shape and place the obtained sausage on a clean kitchen towel .
Roll the towel around the roll , then insert it into a roast net so it will remain well compact (26-27). If you don't have a net, you can use kitchen twine.
At this point, immerse the wrapped roll in the broth , salt and cover with the lid , then simmer for 3 hours over low heat. Turn the guinea fowl halfway through cooking and ensure it is always covered by the broth. After the 3 hours , remove the roll from the broth and let it cool to room temperature, then transfer it to the refrigerator for at least 12 hours.
After 12 hours, remove the net, the kitchen towel , and the plastic wrap. Slice the galantine of guinea fowl and serve it at room temperature on a bed of fresh salad .
The galantine of guinea fowl keeps in the fridge for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Prepare the galantine of guinea fowl a day in advance so it will firm up better in the fridge. You can flavor the slices of meat with mustard and accompany them with boiled potatoes or salad.

