name:
Savory puff pastry rolls with pomegranate
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)
Prague cooked ham: 7.1oz(200 g)
Edam cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)- sliced
Pomegranate: ½
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)
Chestnuts: 1.4oz(40 g)- pre-cooked
Balsamic vinegar glaze: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Thyme: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the savory puff pastry rolls with pomegranate, the first thing to do is handle the pomegranate: cut it in half , deseed it , and blend the seeds with an immersion blender .
Until you obtain a homogeneous mixture which you will then strain to obtain only the juice .
Transfer the pomegranate juice into a small pot, add the balsamic glaze , and let it reduce over low heat, stirring often . Then transfer it into a small bowl and let it cool .
Crumble the chestnuts with your hands , add the thyme leaves, the Parmesan cheese , mix well , and set aside.
Unroll the puff pastry and brush it with the pomegranate reduction . Lay about half of the ham on top and brush again with the reduction .
Place the cheese slices on top , the remaining ham , and about half of the chestnut and Parmesan mixture .
Season with black pepper and roll up the pastry from the longer side . Divide the roll into 12 pieces .
Transfer the rolls onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and press them down slightly with your hands . Brush the surface with the beaten egg and sprinkle with the chestnut and cheese mixture .
At this point bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 25-30 minutes until they are golden brown. Remove from the oven and serve your enticing savory puff pastry rolls with pomegranate !
Once cooked, it is advisable to consume the rolls immediately. Alternatively, they can be stored in the refrigerator and warmed before serving.
If you prefer to freeze them, you can do so before brushing them with the egg.
Add chopped dried figs to the filling instead of the chestnuts!

