name:
Pomegranate Moscow mule
ingredients:
Pomegranate: 1.67cups(400 g)- juice
Vodka: 6.3oz(180 g)
Ginger beer: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Lime juice: 2
Sugar: 4tsp
Fresh ginger: 1- root
Pomegranate: to taste- grains
Sugar: to taste
Rosemary: 4sprigs
Fresh ginger: 4slices
Lime: 1
Ice: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High
Note + 2 hours of maceration

instructions:
To prepare the pomegranate Moscow mule, start by cleaning the fruit. Remove the cap by cutting it with a smooth-bladed knife. Rotate the fruit on the cutting board below your hands , this way the pulp will soften. Cut into the 4 white, clearly visible parts and start to deseed the fruit. With this operation just completed, it should be easier to detach the seeds. Collect them in a bowl
and then blend everything . Transfer everything to a sieve and obtain the juice by pressing with a spatula .
Transfer the juice to a container, add the juice of 2 limes , squeeze 1 peeled ginger root , and finally add the sugar. Mix everything and let it macerate for a couple of hours .
After the time has passed, proceed to decorate the typical Moscow mule mugs or glasses. Cut 4 slices of ginger and 4 of lime , with the other half of the citrus moisten the edge of the glass by rubbing the pulp on the glass rim . Then frost the rim by immersing the wet part in sugar .
Fill the containers halfway with ice, and for each, pour 1.5 ounces of vodka , 2.7 oz of ginger beer , and 1/4 of the pomegranate syrup .
Stir well and complete with 1 tablespoon of pomegranate seeds, 1 sprig of rosemary , a slice of ginger and one of lime , and your Pomegranate Moscow Mule is ready, all that's left is to sip it nice and cold .
Any form of storage for Pomegranate Moscow Mule is not recommended. All you can do in advance is deseed the pomegranate: cover the seeds with plastic wrap and store the bowl in the fridge until use.
To give your Pomegranate Moscow Mule an even more woodsy touch, leave some rosemary to infuse in the syrup cold! Instead, for a lighter alcoholic version, just omit the vodka!

