name:
Cured tongue with green sauce
ingredients:
Beef tongue: 2.7lbs(1.2 kg)
Water: to taste
Lemon peel: 1
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Ground black pepper: 15
Anchovies in oil: 3fillets
Garlic: 2cloves
Parsley: 2cups(120 g)
Salted capers: 1spoonful
Egg yolks: 2
White wine vinegar: 3tbsp(50 g)
Stale bread: 1 ⅓cup(80 g)- crumb
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.7cup(150 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 3 hours of soaking

instructions:
To prepare cured tongue, first rinse it under running water and then soak it for 2-3 hours. After this time, place the tongue in a high-sided pan, add all the aromas: lemon zest , bay leaf, and peppercorns, and then cover it completely with water .
Cook with the lid for 2 hours from boiling, letting it simmer. Meanwhile, prepare the green sauce. Put some water in a pot, immerse the eggs which must be covered with water and cook them for about 8-9 minutes. Then let them cool for a moment before peeling them .
Strain the yolks into a bowl through a sieve . Then remove the crust from the bread and cut the crumb into pieces that you will pour into a bowl along with the wine vinegar . Let it soak for about ten minutes. Meanwhile, peel the garlic and desalinate the capers by rinsing them repeatedly under running water, then chop garlic, capers, and anchovies together .
In the bowl with the yolks, add the chopped aromas and the squeezed bread . Finely chop the parsley leaves, well washed and dried , and add them to the mixture .
Salt, pepper, and mix thoroughly, finally dress with extra virgin olive oil . The sauce is ready , set it aside. Once the cooking time of the tongue is over, drain it ,
let it cool and cut the superficial gray layer with a knife and peel it off with your hands . Once this outer part is removed, you can thinly slice the tongue .
Arrange the slices on a tray and cover them with green sauce . The cured tongue is ready to be served .
The cured tongue can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. The green sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for several days; the important thing is to keep it in a glass jar and cover it well with oil, just like Genoese pesto.
Cured tongue is also excellent to enjoy with mustard.

