name:
Craquelin Choux
ingredients:
Whole milk: ½cup(130 g)
Water: 7 ½tbsp(110 g)
Butter: 6 ½tbsp(90 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Sugar: 3 ½tsp(15 g)
Eggs: 7.9oz(225 g)- (about 4 medium)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.7cup(80 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Powdered sugar: ½cup(60 g)
Vanilla bean: ½

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour of cooling

instructions:
To make the craquelin cream puffs, start by preparing the craquelin. Put the cold butter, sugar , and flour into a bowl and knead with your hands
until you obtain a uniform and compact mixture . Form a block, wrap it with food plastic wrap , and store it in the refrigerator for 1 hour. After this time, take the block, roll it out with a rolling pin on a lightly floured surface to a thickness of 1/8 inch.
Use a small round cutter to form circles of about 1 1/4 inches and place them on a tray lined with parchment paper and store in the refrigerator. Now, prepare the choux pastry: pour the milk into a saucepan,
the water , the butter , the sugar , and the salt.
Bring to a gentle boil , remove from the heat, and add the flour . Stir with a wooden spoon to absorb it and return to the heat for a few minutes, until it detaches from the sides of the saucepan .
Pour into a bowl and work for a few seconds with the wooden spoon to cool the dough. Add the eggs one at a time and work until fully absorbed. Once you have a smooth and elastic dough , transfer it to a piping bag with a smooth nozzle of 3/8 inch .
Form 24 cream puffs about 1 1/4 inches in diameter, squeezing the mixture onto a baking tray lined with parchment paper . Place a disc of craquelin on each cream puff and bake in a preheated, ventilated oven, middle rack at 355°F for 25 min. Remove from the oven and let cool .
Now, prepare the cream: in a bowl, pour the cream, powdered sugar, and vanilla bean seeds , whip the mixture with beaters until fluffy. Transfer the cream to a piping bag with a star nozzle
Cut the top off the cream puff, a little above half, about 3/4 inch and fill by squeezing a tuft of cream . The craquelin cream puffs are ready to be enjoyed !
Empty cream puffs can be stored for 2 days in the refrigerator or frozen after baking.
If you don't have a convection mode, you can bake the craquelin cream puffs in a static oven by increasing the temperature by about 10°F.

