name:
Black Grape Jam
ingredients:
Black grapes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (seedless)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare black grape jam, make sure you have new lids and sterilized jars (following the Ministry of Health's guidelines found at the end of the recipe). Then start by removing the grapes from the bunch , wash them thoroughly under running water , drain them, and remove the seeds from each grape using a small knife .
and extract them by hand (4-5). Place the grapes in a large saucepan .
and let them break down over medium heat for about 20 minutes, stirring occasionally . Once ready, remove from heat and pass the grapes through a food mill , extracting the juice and some of the pulp .
Return everything to the saucepan, add the sugar , stir , and cook over low heat until you reach a temperature of 226°F (about 20 minutes; we recommend using a kitchen thermometer) .
Transfer the hot jam into the previously sterilized jars using a funnel for more precise work (we used 10 oz jars) and close them , ensuring a vacuum seal (if the lid makes a pop sound when the jam cools down, it means the vacuum seal did not form, and the jam cannot be consumed). Your black grape jam can be consumed after about 2-3 weeks from preparation .
Store the black grape jam in a pantry away from heat and light sources for about 3 months. If you open the jars, they should be kept in the refrigerator and consumed within a few days, we recommend 3-4.
Add two apples cut into pieces along with the grapes, and if you like, also the juice of two oranges.
Homemade preparation of preserves and jams can pose health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of food, which industrial procedures are able to ensure to prevent dangerous contamination. It is, therefore, important to strictly follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it must always be kept in mind that the same food safety as professionally produced preserves and jams cannot be achieved. For proper preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

