name:
Tyrolean Grostl
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Speck: 5.3oz(150 g)- a piece to slice
Sweet Pancetta: 5.6oz(160 g)- already diced
Eggs: 4- medium
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
White onions: 12.3oz(350 g)
Chives: to taste
Powdered cumin: ½tsp
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the Tyrolean gröstl, start with the potatoes. Peel them with a peeler or paring knife and then cut them into chunks about 3/4 inch in size . Place them in a pot with plenty of boiling water and cook for about twenty minutes .
Meanwhile, dice the speck into pieces about 1/2 inch . Then finely slice the already peeled onion and move to the stove. Heat a saucepan and melt the butter inside. Then add the diced pancetta and speck .
Add the onions and let everything cook for 15 minutes over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally . By this time, the potatoes will also be done, so drain them and toss them into the mixture .
Season with pepper and ground cumin , and finally the chopped chives
stir and let it all infuse for a few more moments . Your gröstl is now ready , just missing the fried egg. In a small pan with a drizzle of oil, pour one egg at a time from a small bowl .
Cook it for 3-4 minutes and flip the egg onto each portion . Season with a grind of pepper and a bit more chives, and your Tyrolean gröstl is finally ready to be enjoyed !
It's recommended to consume the Tyrolean gröstl immediately to prevent any change in texture, but if there are leftovers, you can store it in the refrigerator for a couple of days. Freezing is also possible, though not advisable to avoid altering the texture.
What could make your Tyrolean gröstl even more delicious? Clearly, some cheese! You can grate some of your favorite cheese, preferably semi-aged and flavorful, like Casera or Bitto, Valtellina cheeses. For those who wish to accompany the dish with a burst of freshness, add a fresh red cabbage salad dressed with a bit of oil and vinegar!

