name:
Turnip Greens Rolls
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Broccoli rabe: 7oz(200 g)
Water: ¾cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.4oz(10 g)
Wildflower honey: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 2 ½tsp(15 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus at least 3 h 40 min of rising time

instructions:
To prepare the turnip greens rolls, first wash the turnip greens, then cut them into pieces with a knife . Heat some oil in a pan, add the turnip greens and cook them, stirring occasionally
until they are wilted , then let them cool completely. At this point, pour lukewarm water (approximately 105°F) into a bowl and add the yeast
and mix with your hands or a spoon to dissolve it completely . Add oil and honey , then gradually add the flour
and start kneading. Before it's completely absorbed, add the salt . Continue working the dough , then transfer it to a floured surface and knead until you get a smooth ball .
At this point, flatten the dough and place the well-chilled turnip greens in the center . Knead with your hands to incorporate them into the dough , adding more flour if it turns out too moist.
Knead the dough for another 5 minutes, then shape it into a ball and place it in a bowl . Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for at least 3 hours, until it's doubled in size.
After the rising time , transfer the dough to a lightly floured surface and divide it into 8 pieces weighing about 3.5-4 oz each .
Shape each portion into a ball , then roll the dough on a surface and place each on a baking sheet. At this point, dust the surface with a little flour
and make two cuts on the surface of each roll (25-26). Cover with a cloth
and let rise for another 40 minutes . Bake in a static oven on the central rack at 375°F for about 30 minutes. When they are golden brown, remove your turnip greens rolls from the oven and let them cool slightly before serving !
Turnip greens rolls can be stored for 1-2 days in a paper bag.
Alternatively, you can freeze them once cooked.
Add some chili pepper to the turnip greens and decorate the surface of the rolls with mixed seeds. Instead of turnip greens, you can use spinach, as long as they are well-dried.

