name:
Gratinated Omelette Roll
ingredients:
Eggs: 8- medium
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Vegetable oil: to taste- for the baking dish
Smoked scamorza cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Radicchio: 3.5oz(100 g)- from Chioggia
Walnut kernels: 0.9oz(25 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.5oz(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the gratinated omelette roll, start by preheating the oven. Then grease the edges of a 13x10.5 inch baking dish and place a sheet of parchment paper inside, folding the sides well . Next, beat the eggs in a bowl, season with salt, pepper , and Parmesan .
Beat again briefly and then pour into the mold . Ensure it is evenly distributed, then bake in a static oven at 350°F for 15 minutes . Once the time has passed, transfer the omelette to a cutting board covered with plastic wrap and let it cool .
In the meantime, peel and then halve the radicchio , remove the core , and then slice horizontally at a thickness of 0.6 inches .
Rinse and drain the radicchio, then dry it with a dishcloth and transfer it to a bowl. Season with salt, pepper
oil , and finally mix . Toast the walnut kernels in a pan. Stir often for 1 minute to prevent burning and ensure even browning ;
at the end of cooking, chop them coarsely . Finally, grate the smoked cheese using a coarse grater . Now that everything is ready, you can fill the omelette. Spread the cheese over the entire surface, taking care to leave a couple of inches on one of the long sides ,
then add the radicchio. Finally, sprinkle with the walnuts and roll it up. At first, use the plastic wrap for help , as you roll, tighten well to prevent the omelet from widening .
Transfer the roll to a baking sheet with parchment paper, sprinkle with grated Parmesan , grate some pepper, and let it bake on the middle rack of the oven, in grill mode, at 465°F for about 8 minutes . Your gratinated omelette roll is ready: serve it hot and enjoy !
The gratinated omelette roll can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If smoked cheese and radicchio are not your favorites, you can use the ingredients you like best to fill your gratinated omelette roll. Some examples? Spinach and melted cheeses, mushrooms and sausages, grilled zucchini, and feta!

