name:
Four-cheese braid
ingredients:
Whole milk: 0.83cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Sugar: 5tbsp(60 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1 ½tsp(7 g)- (25 g if fresh)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 1.9oz(55 g)- (about 1 medium)
Egg yolks: 1 ¼tbsp(18 g)- (about 1 from a medium egg)
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to grate)
Gorgonzola cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)- spicy
Bosc pears: 1.4oz(40 g)- already cleaned
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)- mild
Prosciutto cotto: 1.4oz(40 g)- to be diced
Quartirolo Lombardo cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)
Black olives: 20- pitted
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ⅓tbsp(20 g)
Black sesame seeds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: High
Note + the rising hours

instructions:
To prepare the four-cheese braid, start with the starter for the brioche dough. In a bowl, pour the milk at room temperature, add the yeast , the sugar , and begin mixing with a wooden spoon. Then, gradually, while continuing to stir, add the flour in several additions .
As soon as the mixture is soft and homogeneous, cover with plastic wrap and let it rest at a temperature of 79°F-82°F for about 1 hour . After this time, the starter will have doubled in volume . Transfer it to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a hook. Start at medium speed and add eggs and yolk at room temperature
then the grated Grana Padano PDO , about half of the flour, adding it by spoonfuls . Then it's time for the butter at room temperature, add it piece by piece to facilitate absorption: only add the next piece when the previous one has been incorporated .
Continue with a bit more flour , the salt , and finally the remaining flour. Add it a little at a time as you might not need it all .
As soon as the dough wraps around the hook, turn off the mixer . Detach the dough from the hook and transfer it to a lightly floured work surface . Knead for a few moments to smooth it out
and then give it a reinforcing fold: bring the 4 opposite edges towards the center in a respective manner. Start with the right one, overlap the left one; then the top one and finally overlap the bottom one (16-17). Gently press down and then roll into a smooth ball .
Place it in a bowl dusted with flour , cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise for another hour at 79°F-82°F; the dough will double .
In the meantime, prepare the fillings. Cut into 0.5 cm cubes and gather in 3 separate bowls: the quartirolo with the black olives , mix and move on to the rest .
the smoked scamorza and the cooked ham ; the Gorgonzola
with the peeled pear (28-29). Now that you have the fillings ready, retrieve the risen brioche .
Divide into 3 equal pieces on a lightly floured work surface . Each of these three will be filled individually with the ingredients you prepared earlier. Flatten the first piece with your hands to form a rectangle about 18x4 inches . Fill with ham and scamorza, taking care not to fill the edges and ends .
Then slightly moisten the surface with a spray bottle or a brush and close pinching the edges well to seal the ends .
Flatten the surface to smooth it and now repeat the operation with the other two pieces of dough and their respective fillings: quartirolo and olives , Gorgonzola and pears .
Now that you have the filled strands, position them in front of you and moisten the three tips . Pinch them to attach well and fold the end inward
Then start braiding by passing the strands over each other until you get a braid: make sure not to leave too much space between each cross . Moisten the final three tips again and fold them inward .
This procedure will prevent the strands from opening during baking . Transfer the braid onto a baking sheet with parchment paper, cover with plastic wrap, making sure not to tighten, and let it rest for about ten minutes . In the meantime, preheat the oven. Retrieve the braid and brush it with cream ,
then sprinkle with black sesame seeds and bake at 356°F for about 50 minutes . Your four-cheese braid is ready !
Once the four-cheese braid is ready, it can be stored in a cool, dry place, preferably in a food bag, for 2-3 days. You can also freeze the dough and let it thaw before use. The baked braid can be frozen. The dough can be prepared several hours in advance, just reduce the amount of yeast and keep the dough in the fridge, already with the yeast incorporated, covered with plastic wrap.
The four-cheese braid allows you to choose the filling you prefer: so feel free to make the combinations you like, letting your imagination run wild! Instead of black sesame seeds, if you can't find them, you can replace them with white ones or poppy seeds!

