name:
Two-tone pancake
ingredients:
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Baking powder: 1 ¼tsp(6 g)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 3 ½tsp(15 g)
Eggs: 2- (medium)
Type 00 flour: 3tbsp(25 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 3tbsp(15 g)
Maple syrup: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the two-tone pancakes, start with the base: melt the butter over very low heat, then let it cool slightly. Meanwhile, separate the egg whites from the yolks . Pour the yolks into a bowl and whisk them, then add the melted and cooled butter and the milk gradually .
Whisk the mixture until it becomes light. Add the baking powder to 100 g of sifted flour and mix everything. Now whip the egg whites you set aside with an electric mixer, gradually adding the sugar , and when they are white and frothy, gently fold them into the egg mixture with a spatula, making folding movements from top to bottom to avoid deflating them .
Now divide the batter in half into two bowls, add 25 g of flour to one and mix with a whisk (or spatula) , and 15 g of cocoa powder to the other . Heat a large non-stick pan (preferably with a thick bottom) over medium heat (not high, otherwise the batter won't have enough time to rise well during cooking and the pancakes will become too dark) and grease it lightly with butter .
Start with the plain pancakes: pour a ladle of batter in the center of the pan , there will be no need to spread it. As soon as you see bubbles on the surface, flip the pancake and cook on the other side .
Gradually place the ready pancakes on a plate and continue until the batter is finished. Do the same for the cocoa ones, making sure to always heat the pan well and grease it with a little more butter before proceeding, pouring a ladle of batter in the center, waiting for the first bubbles, and flipping the cocoa pancakes as done previously for even cooking (14-15).
Once ready , you can cut them with cookie cutters: cut a plain and a dark pancake with the same cutter (17-18)
and insert the dark shape into the plain pancake , the plain shape into the dark pancake. Proceed the same way with other cutters as you like, for example, a star , little trees, hearts, Christmas stockings... until you have all your two-tone pancakes to serve with plenty of maple syrup!
The raw batter can be stored for about 12 hours in the fridge covered with plastic wrap.
The formed pancakes can be stored for a day in the fridge covered with plastic wrap.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can flavor the plain batter with vanilla bean seeds and the cocoa one with cinnamon!

