name:
Four French Cheese Onion Soup
ingredients:
Onions: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (mixed: yellow, white, and red)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Sugar: ½tsp
Fine salt: 1tsp
Sage: to taste
Vegetable broth: to taste
White wine: 1glass
Baguette: 1
Langres cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Brie cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)- (or Resit Brebis)
Boursault cheese: 0.75oz(20 g)
Camembert cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the four French cheese onion soup, start by cleaning the onions. We used golden, white, and red onions. Begin with the latter, peel them , and then slice them thinly . Collect them in a bowl and proceed with the other two varieties. Heat a saucepan and let the butter melt, infusing it with sage .
Then add the onions and stir, cover with the lid, and let them simmer for about half an hour over low heat . At this point, you will need to braise the onions, so increase the temperature and add salt and sugar .
Once they have taken on some color, deglaze with white wine . Add enough vegetable broth to cover the onions ; continue cooking for another half hour .
Meanwhile, slice the baguette into pieces about 1/2 inch thick , place them on a baking sheet , and toast them in a preheated oven at 390°F for about 5 minutes .
Next, move on to the cheeses: slice the langres , the boursault , the resit brebis, and the camembert .
At this point, the onions should be ready. Transfer them to a sufficiently large baking dish and distribute the slices of bread , then begin to garnish them with the cheeses , mixing them together and creating tasty pairings each time .
Garnish with a drizzle of oil , a pinch of pepper, and some sage leaves , and grill in the oven for 7-8 minutes until the cheese melts and the surface is slightly golden. Your four French cheese onion soup is ready: bon appétit !
It is recommended to consume the four French cheese onion soup immediately after preparation. Alternatively, you can store it in the refrigerator for up to one day.
You can choose the variety of onions and cheeses you prefer. If you wish, you can alternate layers of onion soup and croutons in a baking dish for an even more original dish!

