name:
Bread Wreath
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Water: 1.4cups(330 g)- at room temperature
Brewer's yeast: 0.4tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: 1 ½tsp(10 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low
Note plus 22 hours of dough maturation

instructions:
To prepare the bread wreath, pour the two flours into a large bowl , add the dried yeast , and begin kneading while gradually adding the water .
Continue kneading until you obtain a compact dough , then add the salt and knead for a few more minutes. Transfer to a work surface and start folding the dough. You will need to pull one of the edges towards you and bring it back towards the center .
Repeat this step a few times to gather all the dough , then cover it with a bowl and let it rest for about ten minutes. Take it again and do the second round of folds, as just done ,
let it rest for another 10 minutes under the bowl and repeat this operation 2 more times (11-12). You will need to do 4 rounds of folds to strengthen the gluten network and give the dough elasticity.
Once the last fold is done, shape the dough into a sphere and place it in a bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for about 1 hour. Then place in the refrigerator for 18 hours. After this time, the dough will not have risen, do not worry. Let it come to room temperature and let it rise for another 2 hours. At this point, it will have doubled in volume and there will be bubbles .
Then transfer the dough to a work surface and divide it into 5 equal parts of 5.8 oz each . Take one piece and form a strand about 20 inches long .
Repeat the same operation for the other four pieces . At this point, join the strands only at one end, laying them on the surface , and start braiding them by bringing the first strand on your left to the center .
At this point, take the first strand on your right and bring it to the center, placing it over the previous one . Continue this way, always starting from the outermost strand, once from the left and once from the right, until you have completely braided the strands . Once you reach the end, seal the closure well
and join it with the initial end to form a wreath . Transfer to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and press well on the joint of the two parts . Sprinkle the surface of the wreath with flour
and let it rise for another hour , always at room temperature. The ideal temperature is 79-82°F. After the rising time, place a small bowl (suitable for baking) with about 2 oz of water at the base of the oven preheated in static mode at 428°F. Also, bake the bread wreath on the middle rack and cook for about 40 minutes until it is golden brown . Then remove from the oven and let it cool before serving .
It is recommended to consume the bread freshly baked. If there are leftovers, they can be stored for 1-2 days in a paper bag and heated before serving.
Cut the bread in half as if it were a sandwich and fill it with cold cuts and cheeses!

