name:
Crescia sfogliata
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4 ¾cups(600 g)- plus as needed for the countertop
Eggs: 10.4oz(295 g)- (approximately 5)
Lard: 5.3oz(150 g)
Whole milk: ⅓cup(80 g)
Fine salt: 2.1tsp(12 g)
Black pepper: 2 ½tsp(6 g)- freshly ground

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 6 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 1 h 30 min. total resting time for the dough (the cooking time refers to a single piece)

instructions:
To prepare the crescia sfogliata, first pour the flour into a bowl, add the black pepper and mix with your hands . Then add 3.5 oz of lard
and work the mixture by crumbling it with your fingers . When it is almost incorporated, add the eggs and knead again. Then add the salt
and the milk . Continue kneading until you have reached a homogeneous consistency . Then transfer everything onto a surface dusted with plenty of flour and shape it into a spherical form, adding a bit more if needed .
Transfer the dough into a bowl and let it rest for 30 minutes covered with plastic wrap . After this time, transfer the dough to a work surface and divide it into 8 portions of 140 g each , then shape them into spheres with your hands .
At this point, roll out the dough balls with a rolling pin until you obtain a rectangle about 1/25 inch thick , about 6.75 inches wide and 8.66 inches long. Sprinkle the surface with some of the remaining 1.75 oz of lard ,
making sure to spread it well and everywhere . Then roll the rectangle onto itself on the shorter side to create a cylinder, which you will roll again onto itself ,
to create a snail shape . Continue in this way for all the others and place them on a tray . Cover with a kitchen towel and let rest for about 1 hour. At this point, take the first snail ,
gently flatten it with your hands and using the rolling pin, roll it out to a thickness of 1/16 inch trying to give it a round shape (23-24).
Heat a non-stick pan on the stove, place the crescia on top and cook it for 3 minutes per side until well browned. Then flip it over and finish cooking on the other side. Continue in this way for all the others and serve your fabulous crescia sfogliata !
The crescia sfogliata can be stored once cooked in a paper bag for 1-2 days. Just heat it in a pan for a few minutes before filling it!
For an original version, try replacing the black pepper with chopped chili pepper or a mixture of aromatic herbs and lemon zest!

