name:
Panna cotta with pomegranate jelly
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: 1.1cups(250 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.1oz(4 g)
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Pomegranate: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Sugar: 5tbsp(70 g)
Pandoro pastry: 3.5oz(100 g)- (1 small)
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
White chocolate: to taste- to grate or curls
Rosemary: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 3 or 4 hours of setting for the panna cotta and cooling for the fruit jelly

instructions:
To prepare the panna cotta with pomegranate jelly, start by infusing the rosemary sprigs in a bowl with the cream . Stir, cover with plastic wrap, and leave to infuse for 8-12 hours in the refrigerator . After the time has passed, soak the gelatin sheets in cold water .
Meanwhile, strain everything directly into a saucepan , add the sugar , and bring to just below boiling, stirring occasionally. Turn off the heat and add the rehydrated and drained gelatin .
Stir thoroughly until completely dissolved . Transfer the panna cotta into 4 glasses with a capacity of 3.4 oz using a ladle , place them in the refrigerator using a tray. Then leave them in the refrigerator for an hour .
In the meantime, move on to the pomegranate jelly: remember that the fruit stains clothes and delicate surfaces, so equip yourself with an apron and cutting board. Cut the top part of the fruits , discard the cap, and then massage the fruit on the cutting board, rolling it under the palms of your hands: this will soften the pulp, and the seeds will come out more easily . Cut the visible four parts where the pulp is and open into wedges .
Deseed the pomegranate and collect in a bowl . Transfer the seeds to a blender (setting aside a few for decoration) , and make a puree. Transfer it to a sieve placed inside a saucepan ,
this way, you can press the seeds with a spatula, squeezing out more juice ; you should obtain 11.6 oz; then discard them and turn on the stove, add the sugar and stir .
Let it cook for about ten minutes on medium-high heat, stirring occasionally . When the syrup is ready, let it cool before pouring it over the 4 glasses . Place back in the refrigerator for a couple of hours: the final consistency will be like a thick cream .
Meanwhile, grate the white chocolate and collect it in a bowl , then slice the small pandoro to obtain 5-6 stars . In a non-stick pan, melt the butter over low heat, and add the roughly crumbled cinnamon .
Place the pandoro slices and toast them for a moment, raising the temperature slightly: be very careful not to burn the stars. Flip them and continue toasting for a few more moments . To garnish the panna cotta with pomegranate jelly, simply add some chopped chocolate in the middle of the jelly ,
garnish the surface with a few reserved fruit seeds , and finally, the pandoro star . Plate the individual glasses on small plates and, if desired, garnish with a few rosemary leaves and some currants .
Panna cotta with pomegranate jelly can be stored for 2-3 days in the refrigerator. Freezing is not recommended. Panna cotta, as well as the jelly, can be prepared in advance and subsequently decorated.
Panna cotta with pomegranate jelly will retain only the aromas of rosemary and cinnamon, but if you don't prefer either or both, you can omit them or replace them respectively with orange and ginger! If you notice yellowish lumps forming on your panna cotta, just melt the mixture again on the stove.

