name:
Cod and Cauliflower Fritters
ingredients:
Water: 2 ¾cups(670 g)
Type 00 flour: 4.8cups(600 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.7oz(20 g)- (about 5 grams if dehydrated)
Fine salt: 1 ¾tsp(10 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Codfish: 1.4lbs(650 g)- already desalted
Cauliflower: 1.7lbs(750 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 50 pieces
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the cod and cauliflower fritters, the first thing to do is to handle the batter. In a jug, pour the water at room temperature, add the salt , the sugar , and then dissolve the yeast
using a teaspoon . Pour everything bit by bit into a bowl where you've placed the flour and mix with a wooden spoon (5 and 6).
Achieve a smooth batter without lumps . Divide into two bowls, cover with plastic wrap , and let rise in a warm place in the kitchen for a couple of hours or until it doubles in volume , meanwhile, handle the cauliflower and cod.
In the meantime, handle the cauliflower. Remove the outer leaves and the central part using a paring knife . Rinse the florets well and then plunge them into a pot full of boiling salted water . Boil them for 10 minutes and then drain them, softened but still crunchy, in a bowl .
Coarsely mash with a fork and let them cool completely before dipping them into the leavened batter . Mix, trying not to deflate the dough too much .
Dip a spoon in the seed oil and then cook 5-6 spoonfuls of batter by dropping them into a pan with a couple of inches of hot (not boiling) seed oil . Occasionally drizzle the fritters with the hot oil on the surface of those not ready to be turned .
After 3-4 minutes, turn them and continue cooking for another 2-3 minutes . When they are golden on both sides, drain the fritters on absorbent paper and continue cooking all the others .
Finally, move on to preparing the fritters with cod: we used already desalted cod, alternatively, just soak it in water for 3 days, changing it every 12 hours. Cut the fish into pieces and boil it for 15 minutes in unsalted water . Drain the pieces and then remove the skin and any bones, detaching them with tweezers .
Flake the cod with a fork and then dip it into the leavened batter . Mix, being careful not to deflate the mixture too much .
In a pan with a couple of inches of hot, not boiling oil, cook a few spoonfuls of batter at a time . Drizzle the surface not in the oil by collecting the latter with a spoon and cook for 3-4 minutes. Then turn and continue cooking for another 2-3 minutes . Gradually drain on absorbent paper and continue cooking the cod and cauliflower fritters .
Once cooked, the cod and cauliflower fritters can be stored for 1-2 days in the refrigerator; keep them in an airtight container and reheat them as needed. If you prefer, you can also freeze them when cooked and reheat them in the oven for a few moments before consuming them. The batter cannot be prepared too far in advance unless by reducing the amount of yeast. Cod and cauliflower can also be prepared the day before, storing them in the refrigerator.
The traditional cooking of cod and cauliflower fritters is done in shallow oil. This way, they will be very tasty, soft, and golden. Alternatively, you can proceed with deep frying, which will ensure a crunchy and drier fry!

