name:
Savory Gingerbread and Holiday Spritz
ingredients:
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(130 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- cold
Whole milk: ⅛cup(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Powdered ginger: 1tsp
Cumin: ½tsp
Nutmeg: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Egg yolks: 1- for brushing
Whole milk: 1spoonful- for brushing
Water: ¾cup(200 g)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Orange peel: 1
Fresh ginger: 1
Rosemary: 1sprig
Cinnamon sticks: 2
Ground black pepper: to taste
Star anise: 3
Orange juice: ¾cup(200 g)
Aperol: 1cup(280 g)
Prosecco: 2.67glasses(400 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus resting times

instructions:
To prepare the savory gingerbread and holiday spritz, start with the cookies by making the savory shortcrust pastry: in the bowl of a food processor with blades, add flour and diced cold butter and pulse briefly to achieve a crumbly texture . Then add the Parmesan ,
chopped rosemary, cumin, ginger powder , black pepper, nutmeg , salt, and finally the milk .
Pulse again until the dough comes together without overheating . Transfer it to the work surface, shape it into a flat disk , wrap it in plastic wrap , and refrigerate for half an hour to firm up.
Meanwhile, prepare the syrup for the spritz by first slicing the ginger thinly . In a small saucepan, pour the sugar and water , add the ginger, and the peeled orange zest ,
the star anise , cinnamon sticks , rosemary, and finally the peppercorns .
Bring to just below a boil and let it simmer very gently for about half an hour . Once done, let it cool, then strain the syrup but keep the candied orange peels, cinnamon, and a few ginger slices for garnishing the glasses.
Retrieve the firmed-up dough and place it on a lightly floured surface ; roll it out with a rolling pin on a lightly floured board to a thickness of about 1/5 inch. Use a gingerbread man cutter to shape your gingerbread cookies (20-21)
and arrange them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Brush with beaten egg yolk mixed with a little milk (22-23) and bake in a static oven at 392°F on the middle-lower rack for about 15 minutes. Once out of the oven, the cookies will be golden but soft: let them cool completely before moving them .
For the spritz, distribute the syrup into 4 glasses (with ice if desired) and in each, add 1/4 cup of orange juice , 1/4 cup of Aperol ,
1/3 cup of Prosecco and stir. Finish with the orange, ginger, and candied cinnamon you set aside and serve your holiday spritz immediately, accompanied by the savory gingerbread .
The savory cookies can be stored in a tin box or an airtight bag for a week. The raw dough can be frozen. The syrup keeps for a few days in the fridge, but once the spritz is assembled, it should be consumed immediately.
A splash of dark rum can be added to the cocktail.
The cookies can be decorated with creamy cheese placed in a piping bag as if it were icing, but in that case, they should be consumed within a few hours and should not be stacked.

