name:
Friselle with cotechino and lentils
ingredients:
Friselle: 4- 30 grams each
Precooked cotechino: 3.5oz(100 g)- (70 grams when cooked)
Dried lentils: 0.4cup(75 g)
Chickory: 2.5oz(70 g)
Celery: 1.1oz(30 g)
Carrots: ¼cup(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 55 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare friselle with lentils and cotechino, start with the latter. Follow the instructions on the package for cooking: ours requires immersion in cold water, and from the boiling point, 20 minutes of boiling . Once cooked, drain it, open the package and let the melted gelatin flow inside, being very careful not to burn yourself. Place on a cutting board, slice it , then cut into cubes about 0.6 inches and set aside .
Now take care of the lentils. Rinse them under a stream of fresh water, then plunge them into a pot full of cold water . Add the bay leaf and bring to a boil. They will cook in about 25 minutes, remaining nice and crunchy .
At the end of cooking, drain them in a container with a colander inside , discard the bay leaf , and keep the cooking water .
Clean the chicory. After removing the base, split the stems in half following the vertical line . Then cut into pieces about 0.8 inches and rinse thoroughly . At this point, peel the carrot and the outer part of the celery ,
then finely chop the knife . Next, remove the top from the chili pepper and finely chop it. Move to the stove. In a large pan, heat a splash of oil along with the chopped carrot and celery, the peeled garlic clove , and the chopped chili pepper
After a few moments, toss in the pieces of chicory and sauté for a few minutes (16-17). Then add the drained lentils and sauté them too for a few minutes .
Remove the garlic and finally sauté the cotechino cubes together with everything else for 1 minute ; season with salt and pepper .
Now that everything is ready, you can proceed with the composition . In the container where you poured the lentil cooking liquid, which should still be warm, dip the friselle for a few moments . Garnish them first with the mix ,
and then with the cotechino cubes . Complete all the others and your friselle with lentils and cotechino are ready: enjoy your meal !
Once the friselle with lentils and cotechino are ready, it is recommended to consume them, otherwise the bread will tend to become soft. The seasoning, however, can be prepared in advance and stored in the fridge for 2-3 days. The seasoning can also be frozen, if needed. The composed frisella, on the other hand, is not advisable to freeze.
The chicory will make your friselle with lentils and cotechino really special by giving a bitter and decisive note to the dish. If you don't like it too bitter, you can blanch it for a few moments and then sauté it in a pan. Alternatively, you can replace the chicory with another bitter herb, such as escarole or, if you prefer a delicate and sweeter flavor, with fresh spinach. An extra touch of personality: crumbled salted ricotta!

