name:
Bombardino al limoncello
ingredients:
Egg yolks: 6tbsp(90 g)- (about 5 medium eggs)
Sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)
Moscato wine: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Limoncello: 1.4oz(40 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1.3cups(300 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the limoncello Bombardino, start with the lemon. After washing and drying it well, use a peeler to obtain two zests and from these create strips as thin as possible . Immerse them in a chilled bowl containing ice water and leave them there .
In the meantime, grate the other part of the lemon peel and pour it into a bowl where you have poured the cream . Whip the cream until it is compact and fluffy . Put it in a piping bag without a nozzle and place it in the refrigerator. Now deal with the zabaione. Pour the Moscato wine into a saucepan
and the limoncello , add about half of the sugar and then turn on the burner at a low temperature. Stir continuously until the sugar is completely dissolved .
Meanwhile, place a mixing bowl over a pot of water, ensuring the bottom of the bowl doesn't touch the liquid . Turn the burner to medium heat and add the egg yolks and the remaining sugar , pour in a splash of the syrup and start whisking .
Quickly pour in the remaining syrup and continue whisking for a few minutes until the mixture reaches 180°F, measuring the temperature with a kitchen thermometer, and becomes light and frothy . Pour the mixture into 4 glasses with a capacity of 4 cups each, you should be able to fill them a little more than halfway .
Now cover the limoncello zabaione with the whipped cream. Try not to place it directly on the cream as it will sink. Instead, form a sort of garnish around the glass and then squeeze more cream to form a small spiral . This way, you will prevent the cream from sinking, making the liquid beneath spill out. Complete your limoncello Bombardino glasses with a couple of lemon zests and drink them while still hot !
Once the limoncello Bombardino is ready, it cannot be stored and must be consumed immediately. The limoncello zabaione, however, can be prepared in advance and stored for 3-4 days in the refrigerator: the important thing is to whip it again to restore its texture. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of zests, you could decorate your limoncello Bombardino with candied lemon or ginger peels. Or try dusting the surface of the cream with a pinch of cocoa powder or coffee powder! To check that the zabaione is cooked without a thermometer, simply swipe a finger along the back of a spoon coated with the cream: if the two halves remain separate, then the cream is cooked!

