name:
Port Braised Beef with Rosemary Apples
ingredients:
Veal: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- cheek
Port wine: 1.7cups(400 g)
Carrots: 2
White onions: 1
Juniper berries: 4
Bay leaves: 4leaves
Celery: 1rib
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Butter: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste
Cornstarch: 1 ½tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fuji Apples: 2
Powdered turmeric: ¼tsp
Apple cider vinegar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Rosemary: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 2 h 40 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare the Port braised beef with apples and rosemary, first wash and peel the vegetables, then chop them roughly (1-2-3).
Now cut the meat into pieces of about 7 oz (200 g) and coat them in flour . In a large pot, add the butter and melt it over medium heat .
Once the butter has melted, add the floured meat and brown it on all sides for a few minutes. When the meat is well browned, add the vegetables , bay leaves, juniper berries, and Port wine .
Add water , season with salt and pepper, cover with a lid , and cook over low heat for at least two hours. Meanwhile, work on the apples: wash and halve them ;
remove the core and chop into rough wedges . Transfer everything to a bowl, season with oil , and apple cider vinegar
and rosemary. Season with salt, pepper, and turmeric , and mix to flavor them. Grease a baking dish with oil, add the seasoned apples , and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F (180°C) for about 20 minutes. Once ready , keep the apples warm.
Meanwhile, the braised beef will also be done cooking , remove the meat and set it aside . Remove the bay leaves
and extract only the vegetables, place them in a tall mixer glass and blend with an immersion blender to obtain a puree .
In a small saucepan, pour the remaining cooking broth, add cornstarch , and reduce the sauce over low heat . Serve the braised beef with apples, vegetable puree, and drizzle the meat with the sauce made from the cooking broth .
The Port braised beef with apples and rosemary can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2-3 days in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
Use the leftover sauce from the braised beef to dress a Parmesan risotto, and use the vegetable puree obtained to stuff ricotta ravioli.

