name:
Stuffed onions with truffle
ingredients:
Yellow onions: 7.1oz(200 g)- (2 medium)
Potatoes: 4.9oz(140 g)
Black truffle: 1- small
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Egg yolks: 1
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the truffle stuffed onions, first boil the potatoes in plenty of cold water , bring to a boil and cook until you can easily pierce them with a fork: the cooking time varies depending on the size of the potatoes, it will take about 30-40 minutes. Meanwhile, peel the onions, cut them in half transversely and hollow them out by removing the inner layers .
Chop the inside of the onions and set it aside for now. Transfer the hollowed onions into a baking dish, season with oil , salt, and pepper and bake in a preheated static oven at 428°F for 20 minutes.
While the onions are cooking, prepare the filling: heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the chopped onion and sauté for a few minutes, then add the rosemary . Pour the onion sauté into a large bowl
and add 4 g of black truffle, using the appropriate truffle slicer (10-11), then mash the boiled potatoes still hot directly into the bowl .
Add the grated Parmesan , the egg yolk , salt, and pepper and mix everything well . Transfer the obtained mixture into a piping bag without a nozzle.
Remove the onions from the oven and fill them with the potato and truffle mixture , then drizzle some oil on top and bake for 15 minutes still at 428°F, then turn on the grill and continue cooking for another 5 minutes .
After removing the onions from the oven, garnish with more truffle flakes to taste and a grinding of pepper and serve your truffle stuffed onions hot !
The truffle stuffed onions can be stored in the fridge for up to 3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can replace the rosemary with a mix of sage or thyme.

