name:
Pork roast with plums
ingredients:
Pork loin: 3.5lbs(1.6 kg)
Dried prunes: 11.3oz(320 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Juniper berries: 3
Rose wine: 2.1cups(500 g)
Sage: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cornstarch: 3tsp(7 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the pork roast with plums, first finely chop the aromatic herbs . With a long, sharp knife, make a central cut in the middle of the loin, running the entire length from one end to the other (2-3) to create an internal hole.
Gently widen the two incisions at the ends and insert the plums one by one until the inside of the meat is completely stuffed. Sprinkle the meat with oil and season it with the mix of sage and rosemary that you have finely chopped.
Cover the entire surface of the meat . In a sufficiently large pan, pour the oil, brown two unpeeled garlic cloves , and the juniper berries
and place the meat , browning it at a high temperature, turning it on all sides . Transfer the meat to a baking dish, season with salt , pepper, and set aside.
Add the rosé wine to the pan where you browned the meat and heat it to remove the alcoholic part . Add more sage and rosemary to the sauce , this time whole.
Transfer the sauce to the baking dish with the meat (16-17) and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F, cooking for about an hour and a half or until the meat reaches an internal temperature of 156°F-158°F (check with a suitable probe). Once the meat is cooked, remove it from the oven
and strain the sauce through a sieve , transfer it to a small saucepan and add the cornstarch
stirring with a whisk to avoid lumps. Thicken the sauce over low heat . Serve the pork roast with plums in slices accompanied by the wine sauce .
The pork roast with plums can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days. It can be frozen if fresh ingredients have been used.
To achieve tender and not too dry meat, we recommend monitoring the cooking with a probe thermometer that allows you to detect the temperature in the innermost part of the meat. At a temperature of about 156°F-158°F, your roast will be perfectly cooked!

