name:
Taralli lard and pepper
ingredients:
Water: ⅓cup(80 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.3oz(8 g)- (0.1 oz if dehydrated)
Sugar: 1tsp
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Lard: 0.4lb(200 g)
Almonds: 1cup(150 g)
Black pepper: 4tsp
Fine salt: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Almonds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the taralli sugna e pepe, start with the starter dough. In a jug with room temperature water, pour and dissolve the yeast using a teaspoon . Then, in a bowl, pour the flour, sugar
then also the water and yeast mixture . Knead by hand until you get a sort of batter. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap ;
let it rise for at least an hour in a dry place away from drafts. At the end, it will have doubled and have bubbles on the surface . Meanwhile, pour the almonds with the skin into a kitchen processor and chop until you get a not-too-fine grain. Now let's move on to the dough: in a large bowl, pour the flour, add the chopped almonds ,
the pepper , the salt , and mix with one hand .
Also pour in the lard and start kneading by hand while gradually pouring in the water a bit at a time .
It's time to add the starter dough and knead until you have obtained a smooth and homogeneous dough. Then transfer to a work surface and continue kneading for a few more minutes to blend the ingredients well . Now let's form the taralli. Take 70 grams (about 2.5 oz) of dough at a time ;
divide it into two pieces of 35 g each (about 1.25 oz) and make two strands 22 cm (about 8.5 inches) long . Join the two ends and twist the two strands together
until you get a tight braid . Join the ends forming a small ring and press slightly on the ends to seal the shape .
Finally, add 4-5 almonds on the surface, pressing slightly so they just penetrate the dough and gradually transfer to a baking tray lined with parchment paper . The taralli sugna e pepe bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for about 50-60 minutes on the middle rack; check the baking and they will be ready when they are golden. Let them cool before enjoying them !
The taralli sugna e pepe can be stored for about ten days, better if kept in a well-sealed bag. Once started, the dough must be worked until the end. Freezing is not recommended.
In some versions of taralli sugna e pepe, whole or coarsely chopped almonds are included in the dough, while in others, there is no almond grain, leaving a smooth dough. The most widespread variant in Campania is the one that includes the addition of Neapolitan friarielli to the dough: try it too! If you want to respect tradition, the taralli should be consumed accompanied by a cold beer... sitting on the rocks!

