name:
Hazelnut parfait
ingredients:
Egg yolks: 6tbsp(85 g)- (about 5)
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Whole peeled hazelnuts: ½cup(60 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 6tbsp(30 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Amaretto (liquor): 3spoonfuls
Whole peeled hazelnuts: 2.8oz(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 20 minutes of cooling the chocolate mixture

instructions:
To make the hazelnut parfait, pour water and sugar into a saucepan . Stir and cook the mixture for 8 minutes, until you obtain a thick and transparent syrup .
In the meantime, pour the hazelnuts into a blender and grind them in several batches until they become flour . Now, separately, work the egg yolks with a whisk
until they become light and foamy . At the end, place the bowl in a double boiler on a pot full of water , pour the still hot syrup over the eggs in a thin stream ;
stir quickly with the whisk and cook for about 3 minutes, until it increases in volume. At this point, add the cocoa and stir to blend. Now incorporate the hazelnuts
the amaretto liqueur , stir and pour into a large bowl .
Let it cool for about 20 minutes . Meanwhile, whip the cream in a bowl until it is frothy . Combine with the now cold chocolate mixture .
Stir until the two mixtures are well blended . Pour the parfait into a large loaf pan of about 10x4 inches and freeze it for at least 3 hours. When the hazelnut parfait has solidified ,
remove it from the mold and place it on a serving plate. To easily unmold it, simply dip the base of the mold in a container with hot water. Then invert the mold onto a plate and gently remove it . Finally, decorate the surface with coarsely chopped hazelnuts and serve your hazelnut parfait immediately .
The hazelnut parfait can be stored in the freezer for up to one month. Take it out of the freezer about ten minutes before serving. If it has been in the freezer for several days, it may take a few more minutes to soften slightly.
If you do not like the aroma of amaretto liqueur, you can also use Grand Marnier or Rum.

