name:
Torta Elvezia
ingredients:
Almond flour: 2.67cups(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 2cups(250 g)
Egg whites: 0.4cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 2.375tsp(35 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
White wine: 1oz(30 g)- still
Butter: ¾cup(200 g)
Powdered sugar: ½cup(70 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: ¼cup(15 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Chopped almonds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 12
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the Helvetia cake, start with the zabaglione. In a mixing bowl, pour the egg yolks and sugar , activate the beaters, and whip until you get a light and frothy mixture . Then add the white wine
and continue beating for 1 minute. Transfer the mixing bowl to a pot with a bain-marie: it is important that the water is already hot, not boiling . Keep the beaters running until the mixture is swollen and firm. Remove from the pot and let it cool .
Proceed with the base of the dessert: the dacquoise. In a stand mixer, pour in the egg whites at room temperature and some of the powdered sugar , activate the whisk, pouring the sugar gradually and working until the mixture is well whipped .
Turn off and remove the whisk from the mixer and then add the almond flour . Gently mix with movements from bottom to top, so that the flour is incorporated without deflating the mixture . Transfer everything into a piping bag with a 5 mm plain tip .
Draw on a sheet of parchment paper, previously placed on the baking tray, and form 3 discs of 7 inches (it's likely that only two will fit, so you will have to bake the last disc afterward) . The discs bake in a static oven, already hot at 320°F, for about 15 minutes. Once baked, let them cool completely .
In the meantime, take care of the cocoa butter cream. In a bowl, pour the room temperature and very soft butter, add the powdered sugar and the cocoa , activate the beaters for a few minutes or until you obtain a velvety and lump-free cream .
Once the cream is ready, put it in a piping bag without a tip . Now all that's left is to assemble the Helvetia cake. Place a sheet of parchment paper on a plate and the first dacquoise disc on top and squeeze 2/3 of the cocoa butter cream .
Then place the second dacquoise disc and spread the zabaglione on top using the back of a spoon to spread it well .
Cover with the last disc and finish the edge of the cake with the remaining cocoa butter cream: use a spatula to help you . Finally, cover the cream with almond granules, creating a decoration .
Dust the surface with powdered sugar and your Helvetia cake is ready to be enjoyed: all that's left is to slice it (29-30).
The Helvetia cake can be stored for 2 days in the refrigerator, keeping it under a glass dome. The dacquoise can be stored in a cool place for a few days. If you prefer, you can prepare the zabaglione and/or butter cream in advance, storing them in the refrigerator for up to two days. Freezing is not recommended.
The Helvetia cake is a traditional dessert, so any exceptions might horrify purists, but we still want to tempt you with some delicious variations! Let's start with the base, the dacquoise: instead of using only almond flour, you could create a mix with hazelnut flour, or use only the latter, to obtain even tastier discs! Additionally, you could dust the surface of the dessert with a mix of powdered sugar and bitter cocoa powder, so as to have a scenic effect and a much more interesting taste.

