name:
Naan
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Natural plain yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Fine salt: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.4tsp(2 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + the rising time (about 5 h total)

instructions:
To prepare the naan dough, pour the flour into a bowl, add the yogurt , the crumbled yeast , and almost all the water .
Stir with a wooden spoon to incorporate the yeast into the mixture, then add the salt and the remaining water . Mix the dough with your hands inside the bowl, then transfer it to the work surface and continue kneading until it becomes smooth and no longer sticks to your hands .
Put the dough back in the bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let it rise for 4 hours at room temperature . After the rising time , move the dough to the lightly floured surface and divide it into 8 equal parts .
Take a portion of the dough and fold the edges towards the center , then roll the dough between your hands to form a ball . Repeat the process for all the other pieces. Place the balls on a lightly floured tray, cover with another tray or a cloth, and let them rise for another hour, away from drafts.
After this time , lightly flour the work surface and roll out the dough balls to a thickness of about 0.4 inches . You can give the naan a round or oval shape; it doesn't have to be regular. Place a non-stick pan on the stove and heat it very well. When it's hot, lay the naan on it and cook for about 1 minute on one side .
When bubbles start to form and the bottom is colored, flip the naan to the other side and cook for another minute . Serve your naan while still hot !
Naan can be stored for one day at room temperature.
It can be frozen after cooking.
After cooking, naan is usually spread with butter or ghee. Alternatively, you can serve it with a brine of oil, salt, minced garlic, and coriander (or parsley) or accompany it with a small bowl of Raita , Hummus , or Babaganoush for a tasty ethnic appetizer!
If you wish to shorten the rising times, double the yeast.

