name:
Buckwheat Cookies
ingredients:
Buckwheat flour: 2.1cups(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Butter: 5oz(140 g)- cold
Brown sugar: 0.7cup(140 g)
Eggs: 2
Blueberry jam: ½cup(175 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 11 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 20 min. of dough resting

instructions:
To prepare the buckwheat cookies, pour the buckwheat flour and the all-purpose flour into the mixer, then add the cold butter and operate the blades for a few moments until the mixture is sandy .
Then add the brown sugar , the eggs and operate the blades again
until the mixture is combined . Transfer it to the work surface and knead it for a few moments to smooth the dough . Wrap the dough in cling film and then let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 20 minutes .
Dust the surface with a pinch of flour and roll out the dough to obtain a rectangle with a thickness of 1/8 inch, using a rolling pin . Then, using a fluted round cutter of about 2 1/2 inches, cut out 22 cookies . Then, using a smaller round cutter of about 1 1/4 inches, cut holes in 11 cookies .
Transfer the holed and non-holed cookies onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake them in a preheated oven at 355°F for about 20 minutes in static mode . Let them cool completely before garnishing them. Squeeze the blueberry jam onto the full discs using a piping bag, or a teaspoon if you prefer .
Then, stack the holed cookies on top by applying slight pressure: this way the jam in the center will tend to distribute along the edge, just enough to prevent it from overflowing . Continue like this to finish them all . Your buckwheat cookies are ready: now all you have to do is enjoy them !
You can store the buckwheat cookies under a glass dome for up to 3-4 days. If you prefer, you can also store the shortcrust pastry in the refrigerator for 3-4 days or freeze it.
If you want to give a really unique touch to your buckwheat cookies, try flavoring the shortcrust pastry with some chopped rosemary: it goes perfectly with the rustic taste of buckwheat! Moreover, you can vary the jam to your liking; however, we recommend staying with fresh and tart ones that are perfect with the shortcrust. Brown sugar will give a more intense color and a caramel flavor, but alternatively, you can replace it partially or entirely with white sugar.

