name:
Savory robiola ring cake with peas and ham
ingredients:
Robiola cheese: 4.9oz(140 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(140 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 ml)
Eggs: 3- medium
Vegetable oil: 1.7tbsp(25 ml)
Peas: 1cup(150 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 3.5oz(100 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 1bag
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)- to grate
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
White onions: 1.5oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the savory robiola ring cake with peas and ham, start by peeling and chopping the onion . In a pan, heat a drizzle of olive oil and brown the onion for a few minutes, stirring occasionally . Then add the peas to the pan along with the onion .
Add the water , salt , and lower the heat. Continue cooking for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Once ready, let them cool .
Take the ham in a single slice, remove the fat and rind, and cut it into strips then into cubes . Set aside. In a bowl, pour the eggs and milk
pour the vegetable oil and mix everything with a hand whisk .
Add the robiola , a pinch of salt, and a sprinkle of black pepper . Also add the flour ,
the baking powder for savory cakes , and the grated Parmigiano Reggiano . Mix everything with the hand whisk .
Also incorporate the peas and diced ham . Mix everything with a spatula . Butter and flour a ring mold with a 9.5-inch diameter
pour the mixture inside and level it . Bake the savory robiola ring cake with peas and ham in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 30 minutes. Do the toothpick test before taking your savory robiola ring cake with peas and ham out of the oven . Let it cool slightly, then unmold and serve.
The savory robiola ring cake with peas and ham can be stored at room temperature for 2 days, under a glass dome or covered with plastic wrap. It can also be frozen.
You can replace the ham with bacon or other cold cuts, or use other vegetables instead of peas.

