name:
Mini pumpkin bavarois with parmesan sauce
ingredients:
Delica pumpkin: 1.2lbs(550 g)- to be cleaned
Water: 0.42cup(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(60 g)
Whole milk: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Egg yolks: 2 ½tbsp(36 g)- (about 2)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.8cup(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Hazelnuts: to taste- toasted
Chopped hazelnuts: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 5 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the mini pumpkin bavarois with Parmesan sauce, first clean the pumpkin by removing the seeds and the skin . Then cut it into chunks ,
and transfer it to a pan with a drizzle of oil . Add 3.5 oz of water and let it cook for about 25 minutes, until it becomes soft .
Then transfer it to the bowl of a blender and blend it , until you get a smooth cream . Soak the gelatin in cold water .
Meanwhile, prepare the crème anglaise: pour the cream into a mixing bowl , add the egg yolks and cook it in a bain-marie, stirring continuously with a spatula , until it reaches 185°F.
Pour the milk into a saucepan and heat it. Then gently squeeze the gelatin and dissolve it in the milk .
Mix the crème anglaise with the pumpkin puree (16-17); then add the milk inside
and stir until you get a smooth mixture . Season with salt and divide the mixture into 5 metal molds . Then cover with plastic wrap and store in the refrigerator for at least 10 hours.
When serving the mini bavarois, prepare the accompanying sauce. Pour the milk into a saucepan and heat it over low heat. Then add the Parmesan and stir
until the sauce has thickened completely . Heat some water in a saucepan and without burning yourself, dip the mold, making sure the water does not get inside . Invert the bavarois onto a serving plate
and garnish with the Parmesan sauce . Finish decorating with black pepper, thyme leaves, chopped hazelnuts , and toasted hazelnuts. The mini pumpkin bavarois are ready to be served .
You can store the mini pumpkin bavarois for up to 2 days in the refrigerator. Freezing is not recommended.
If you need to prepare the Parmesan sauce the day before, to reheat it, simply warm it up by adding about two fingers of milk. Prepare your bavarois with your favorite type of pumpkin and flavor them using citrus zest and turmeric.

