name:
Savoia Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 9.9oz(280 g)- (approximately 5)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(90 g)
Cornstarch: 7tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Dark chocolate: 10.6oz(300 g)
Milk Chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
White chocolate: 0.9oz(25 g)
Powdered sugar: 3tbsp(25 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: ¼cup(25 g)
Nut flour: ½cup(70 g)
Whole milk: 0.6cup(150 g)- at room temperature
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)- at room temperature
Water: ¾cup(200 g)
Sugar: 0.375cup(90 g)
Rum: 2tbsp(30 g)
Cocoa butter: 1.75oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 24 min
Serving: 10
Cost: High
Note + the cake resting time of 15 minutes

instructions:
To prepare the Savoia cake, start by making the biscuit batter. Pour the eggs into the bowl of a stand mixer, gradually add the sugar , salt, and whisk until you obtain a soft and fluffy mixture, but not too frothy . Then sift in the all-purpose flour ,
and the cornstarch . Gently fold with a spatula from the bottom up , to prevent deflating the mixture .
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and pour in half of the mixture (keep the other half in the mixer bowl). Spread it evenly using a spatula (7-8). Bake in a static oven at 356°F (180°C) on the middle rack for 12 minutes, then remove and let cool slightly. Move the biscuit layer along with the parchment paper to a surface to cool and repeat the same process for the remaining mixture.
Once baked, let this cool as well. At this point, you'll need to obtain 5 discs from the two biscuit layers. Using a 7-inch (18 cm) ring, cut out two discs from the first layer of biscuit and three from the second: for the second layer, two discs will be whole, and the third disc will need to be assembled with two halves (11-12). Let them cool completely, cover with plastic wrap, and set aside. If you prefer, you can stack them, separating each layer with a piece of parchment paper.
Pour the hazelnut flour, cocoa , and powdered sugar into the bowl of a blender. Blend for a few seconds .
Chop the dark chocolate , the white chocolate, and the milk chocolate, placing them in 3 separate bowls . Then melt them in the microwave by activating it for a few seconds at a time, at the lowest power .
Combine the 3 chocolates in one bowl and mix with a spatula . Add the flour mixture
and mix well . Add the milk in two parts . When adding the first part, the mixture will stiffen slightly, then add the second part and work it until you get a smooth cream .
Finally, add the room temperature butter and mix again with a spatula . Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest for 30 minutes in the refrigerator.
To prepare the syrup, pour water, sugar , and rum into a saucepan. Bring to a boil and let it cool to room temperature.
When everything is well-cooled, you can assemble the cake; first, place the cream in a piping bag without a nozzle. Place one of the 5 discs on a serving plate ; moisten it with the prepared syrup using a brush and pipe a layer of cream, spiraling it over the entire surface of the disc .
Then cover with another biscuit layer, moisten the disc again, add another layer of cream, and continue this way until all ingredients are used up, keeping in mind that the last disc should be moistened but not have cream. If the cream overflows too much from the sides of the cake, you can level it with a spatula. Once the cake is completed , refrigerate for about 15 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the glaze: in a small bowl, combine the chopped chocolate with the cocoa butter and melt everything in the microwave, activating it for a few seconds at a time .
At this point, transfer the cake to a rack and place a tray underneath . Pour the glaze over the cake , ensuring it covers the entire surface . Refrigerate again for about 10 minutes and fill a parchment paper cone with the remaining glaze.
Use it to decorate the cake , you can write "Savoia" or create decorations as you wish. Let it rest for another 15 minutes in the fridge before serving (11-12).
The Savoia cake can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
To make operations easier, all preparations can be done a day in advance. If cocoa butter is not available, you can use butter (70 g) or vegetable oil (40 g).

