name:
Jerusalem artichoke bread
ingredients:
Jerusalem artichoke: 4.6oz(130 g)- whole
Type 0 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Whole grain flour: 0.375cup(50 g)
Water: 1.1cups(250 g)- at room temperature
Wildflower honey: ¾tbsp(15 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1.4tsp(7 g)
Fine salt: 2 ½tsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 4 h of rising

instructions:
To make the Jerusalem artichoke bread, first wash the Jerusalem artichokes under running water , then place them in a steamer and cook for about 15-20 minutes , or until they are soft. Steaming allows you to obtain a soft but not watery pulp.
At the end of cooking, peel the Jerusalem artichokes and place them in the tall glass of a blender : you will need about 3-3.5 oz of Jerusalem artichoke pulp. Pour in 3.5 oz of water
and blend everything until you get a smooth puree . Set aside and pour the flours into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a hook ,
add the crumbled yeast , the honey , and the remaining water .
Finally, add the Jerusalem artichoke puree and turn on the machine to mix the ingredients. At this point, also add the salt and continue kneading for 5 minutes. Transfer the dough to a bowl and using a dough scraper, make 4 folds .
Cover with plastic wrap and repeat the same operation after 10 minutes. Proceed this way for a total of 3 times. Then cover with plastic wrap and let it rise at about 80-82°F for 2 hours, the oven turned off with the light on will be fine. After this time, take the risen dough , transfer it to a floured pastry board and divide it into two equal parts with a dough scraper .
Flour two wooden molds and shape the two doughs to fit the molds . Place them inside , cover with a cloth and let rise for 90 minutes, protected from air in a warm environment.
Line a baking tray with parchment paper and flip the loaves onto it, sprinkle the surface with a little flour and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F on the lower rack for 45 minutes. Once baked, remove from the oven and let the bread cool before serving .
The bread can be stored for 1 day in a dry environment inside a paper bag. It can be frozen, but only after baking.
If desired, you can enrich the dough with oilseeds by adding them to the stand mixer after the salt.

