name:
Radicchio and Gorgonzola Supplì
ingredients:
Arborio rice: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Radicchio: 8.8oz(250 g)- trevigiano
Gorgonzola cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)- approximately
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 4
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time of the rice in the refrigerator (at least 1 h)

instructions:
To prepare radicchio and gorgonzola supplì, first remove the base of the radicchio, wash it, and cut it into thin rings . Heat a drizzle of oil in a saucepan, add the radicchio , and let it wilt over medium heat for a few minutes, then add the rice and toast it for about 2 minutes.
Season with salt and pepper, then pour in about 2 cups of water and cook the rice over medium heat, stirring often and adding more water as it gets absorbed: you'll need about 3 1/2-4 cups of water in total. Once cooked, the rice should be dry .
At this point, turn off the heat and add the chopped parsley and gorgonzola , mix well to combine everything, and transfer the seasoned rice to a baking dish . Cover with cling film and refrigerate for at least an hour.
After this time, the rice will be cold and firm, so you can proceed with the recipe: take about 3.5 oz of rice and shape it into a ball , then dip it in the beaten eggs and coat with breadcrumbs . Continue this way to form all the supplì.
Heat the seed oil in a saucepan to 340°F (measured with a kitchen thermometer) and fry 1 or 2 supplì at a time until golden brown, then drain on a sheet of absorbent paper . Serve your radicchio and gorgonzola supplì hot !
Radicchio and gorgonzola supplì can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days; it is recommended to reheat them in the oven before serving. Alternatively, you can freeze them after breading and fry them directly from frozen.
To make the risotto even more flavorful, you can deglaze with red wine and add some aromatic herbs. If you prefer baking, you can cook them in a preheated static oven at 355°F for about 45 minutes.

