name:
Beetroot Dumplings
ingredients:
Precooked beets: 3.5oz(100 g)
Stale bread: 4.6oz(130 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Eggs: 3.5oz(100 g)- (approximately 2)
Whole milk: ⅓cup(80 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)
Breadcrumbs: 5 ⅓tbsp(40 g)
Marjoram: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ⅛cup(270 g)
Leeks: 1
Saffron: 0.1tsp(0.25 g)- (2 packets)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the beetroot dumplings, start by removing the crust from the bread , then cut it into pieces and place it in a bowl. Pour the milk
and let it soak, crumbling the bread with your fingers . Cut the beetroot into pieces , place it in a tall-sided glass, and blend it with an immersion blender .
You need to obtain a smooth purée . Add the blended beetroot to the bread and then add all the other ingredients one by one, mixing each time to incorporate: then add the grated cheese ,
the whole eggs , the flour , the salt
and finally the breadcrumbs . Mix the dough carefully and create meatballs of about 3 oz each . As you form the meatballs, place them on a tray .
Move on to preparing the saffron sauce: trim and slice the leek , then pour the cream into a saucepan and add the leek slices . Cook for about 15-20 minutes over low heat , making sure that the cream doesn't overflow from the saucepan.
Transfer the leek cream into the tall glass of the blender , add the saffron powder , and blend everything with the immersion blender .
You will obtain a dense ocher-colored cream , add salt to it and keep it warm. Now, cook the dumplings in plenty of salted boiling water for about 10 minutes ,
then drain them and place them on a tray . Serve your dumplings on a bed of leek and saffron sauce and garnish with marjoram leaves .
Beetroot dumplings can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can cook the dumplings in vegetable broth or meat broth to make them even more flavorful.
The beetroot can be replaced with boiled carrots.

