name:
Ghormeh sabzi
ingredients:
Veal: 3.3lbs(1.5 kg)- shoulder cover
Red onions: 11.3oz(320 g)
Dried red beans: 1cup(140 g)
Leeks: 2 ¼cups(200 g)- the green part
Spring onions: ¾cup(70 g)- the green part
Parsley: 3oz(80 g)
Coriander: 2.8oz(80 g)
Fenugreek: 3tsp(15 g)- seeds
Powdered turmeric: 2tsp(10 g)
Water: 4 ¼glasses(1 l)
Lime: 1- the juice and the zest
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 3 h 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the ghormeh sabzi, first cut the piece of meat into slices 1-1.5 inches thick , then cut them into cubes . Peel the red onions and slice them thinly .
Wash and finely slice the green part of the leek , then do the same with the green part of the scallions . Finally, wash and chop both the parsley
and the cilantro and set aside the mix of herbs, leeks, and scallions in a bowl. Heat the oil in a large pot, add the onion and sauté for a few minutes until it is wilted .
At this point, add the meat and brown it over medium heat, stirring with a wooden spoon to prevent it from sticking . Add the salt and turmeric and stir again.
Add the dried beans and 4 cups of water , then cover with a lid and let cook for about 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, heat a drizzle of oil in another pan and toast the fenugreek seeds for a couple of minutes , then add the mix of herbs, leeks, and scallions that you had set aside and let cook over medium heat during the 20 minutes of cooking the meat .
After this time, add the cooked herbs to the pot with the meat , then also add the lime zest and juice .
Cover with the lid and cook over medium-low heat for at least 3 hours, until the stew becomes thick and creamy . Serve your ghormeh sabzi accompanied with steamed basmati rice !
The ghormeh sabzi can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. If you wish, you can freeze the stew after it has completely cooled down.
The best cuts of meat are those that require long cooking such as chuck or veal belly, but you can also use beef or lamb. If you have fresh or dried fenugreek available, do not add it with the rest of the herbs, but sauté it in a pan only during the last 2 minutes to avoid giving the preparation a bitter taste. If you use dried limes ( limu omani ) instead of fresh lime, remember to pierce them with a fork to release all their flavor!

