name:
Savory Puff Pastry Parcels
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Manitoba flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¾tbsp(40 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Water: 1cup(230 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 3tsp(15 g)
Butter: 8.8oz(250 g)- for laminating
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 3.5oz(100 g)- drained
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.8cup(200 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: 1 ⅓tbsp(20 g)
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 14
Cost: Average
Note plus the rising and resting times for the puff pastry (6 and a half hours)

instructions:
To prepare the savory parcels, the first thing to do is to make the puff pastry. Dissolve the yeast in room temperature water . In a stand mixer fitted with the hook attachment, pour the two types of flour , then add the dissolved yeast in water .
and the sugar . Turn on the mixer until you get a homogeneous dough . Then add the oil and let it incorporate until the dough clings to the hook.
Finally, add the salt and work for a few more minutes until it's completely absorbed. Then transfer the dough to a work surface and shape it into a spherical form. Place it in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise at room temperature for 2 hours.
In the meantime, place the butter on a floured board and roll it with a rolling pin by adding a little flour to obtain a square 8x8 inches and about 0.2 inches thick . Wrap it in plastic wrap and store in the refrigerator.
At the end of the rising , transfer the dough to a floured board and, using the rolling pin, roll it out to get a 12x12 inch square . Place the butter block in the center of the square to form a diamond shape .
Fold the dough edges towards the center of the butter block , joining the ends without overlapping them. Seal the edges with your hands . Let it rest in the refrigerator for 10-15 minutes. Place the square again on a lightly floured board and roll it out towards one side .
Roll it to elongate one side until you get a rectangle 17 inches long and about 0.2 inches thick . Make the first three-fold by bringing one edge of the dough to 1/3 of the rectangle . Then cover with the other edge . The first fold is ready. Cover with plastic wrap and let rest for at least 30 minutes in the refrigerator.
Then take the dough again, place it on a floured board; roll it out in the direction of the folds until you get a rectangle of the same dimensions as before. At this point, repeat the three-fold by always bringing one edge of the dough to 1/3 of the rectangle and the other to cover (23-24). Wrap in plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator for another 30 minutes and do one last three-fold as just done. Wrap again in plastic wrap and let rest again in the refrigerator, this time for about 120 minutes.
Prepare the sun-dried tomato pâté. Place the sun-dried tomatoes in a tall-sided container and blend everything with an immersion blender until you get a cream .
When the pastry has rested, transfer it to a floured board and, using a rolling pin , roll it out until you get a rectangle 12x24 inches, about 0.12 inches thick . Then cut it in half lengthwise , to get 2 rectangles 6x24 inches.
Spread half of the ricotta only in the central strip of the two rectangles , sprinkle half of the sun-dried tomato pâté over it , and add a few basil leaves .
Brush the pasta edge without filling with milk and fold it to cover the filling . Then brush the other side as well
and bring it towards you, adhering it to the dough underneath , to get a roll. Cut off irregular ends and carve out cylinders about 2.75 inches long . Arrange them on a baking tray, with the closure resting on the base .
Pour egg yolk and milk into a small bowl ; beat with a fork and use it to coat the surface of the parcels .
Let rise for an hour at room temperature, away from drafts . Then bake in a static preheated oven at 392°F for 30 minutes, in the central rack. Then remove from the oven and serve your savory parcels nice and hot .
Savory parcels can be stored for one day at room temperature. They can be frozen before baking. Just let them thaw, rise, and bake as per the recipe.
You can also fill the parcels with different aged cheeses and cold cuts.

