name:
Ricotta gnocchi with pepper cream and sausage
ingredients:
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Eggs: 1.8oz(50 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2oz(60 g)- (to grate)
Fine salt: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Red peppers: 1 ½cup(230 g)
Yellow peppers: 8.125oz(230 g)
White onions: 1.8oz(50 g)
Sausage: 1.1lbs(480 g)
Red wine: ¾glass(110 g)
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare ricotta gnocchi with pepper cream and sausage, place the ricotta, the flour , the Grana Padano PDO , and the egg in a large bowl.
Also add the salt and nutmeg . At this point, knead by hand
until you have thoroughly combined all the ingredients . Transfer the mixture to a work surface and work it until you get a compact and soft dough. Use a dough scraper to divide the dough into several portions and create many long strands, about 3/4 inch thick, then cut the strands into small pieces . Transfer them, one batch at a time, to a lightly floured tray.
Take care of the seasoning: clean and slice the onion ; dice the red and yellow peppers by first cutting off the top and removing the inner filaments and seeds . Pour the oil into a pan and heat it slightly
saute the onion for a couple of minutes in the pan while stirring . Then add the peppers to the onion , adjust the salt, and cook for about 15 minutes, stirring occasionally ; during cooking, pour in a ladle of hot water. Then remove from heat and let it cool slightly.
Meanwhile, focus on the sausage: remove the casing, crumble it and cook it in the pan for about 10 minutes, stirring often . Deglaze with the wine and let it evaporate completely. When the peppers have cooled slightly, blend them with an immersion blender
until you obtain a smooth cream that you can pour into the pan with the sausage . Boil the gnocchi, cooking a few at a time ; drain them as soon as they float to the surface.
Add them one batch at a time to the sausage and pepper seasoning in the pan , stir gently , and serve your ricotta gnocchi with pepper cream and sausage hot , sprinkled with parsley to taste.
Ricotta gnocchi with pepper cream and sausage can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day in an airtight container. Uncooked gnocchi can be frozen by placing them on a tray, and once solidified, you can transfer them to a bag and store them in the freezer.
You can flavor the ricotta gnocchi dough with thyme instead of nutmeg.

