name:
Soft coffee tart
ingredients:
Eggs: 6.3oz(180 g)- (about 3)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(160 g)
Butter: to taste- for the mold
Sugar: (130 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Coffee: 1tazza da caffè- (about 50 grams)
Corn oil: 6tbsp(80 g)
Baking powder: 3tsp(13 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(130 g)
Instant coffee: 1tsp(5 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Coffee beans: to taste- for decoration

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note plus cooling times

instructions:
To prepare the soft coffee tart, make the coffee with a moka pot (you will need 50 g); once ready, let it cool slightly. For the base, pour the eggs into a bowl, add sugar and salt . Whip everything with electric beaters until the eggs are frothy. It will take about 6 minutes. At this point, while continuing to whip, add the seed oil
and the now lukewarm coffee . Work for a few more moments and turn off the beater. Then add the sifted flour ,
incorporate it with the beaters and finally add the baking powder . Turn the beaters back on until you get a smooth and homogeneous mixture .
Butter a clever mold of 11 inches and pour the mixture inside . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 30 minutes. Do the toothpick test, take the cake out of the oven , and let it cool slightly. Meanwhile, prepare the cream. In a bowl, pour the mascarpone, instant coffee
and 80 g of powdered sugar . Mix everything until you get a smooth cream and place it in the refrigerator. Turn the cake over onto a serving plate and let it cool completely .
Once cold, take the cream and spread it throughout the cavity of the cake . Then whip the cream with the remaining 50 g of powdered sugar (17-18) and transfer it to a pastry bag without a nozzle.
Squeeze out dollops, placing them next to each other across the entire surface of the cake and garnish with coffee beans . The soft coffee tart is ready to serve .
The soft coffee tart can be stored in the fridge for 2 days. You can prepare the base in advance the day before and fill it just before serving.
Decorate the soft tart with melted chocolate!

