name:
Vietnamese Pho
ingredients:
Beef: 4.4lbs(2 kg)- bones
Beef sirloin: 7.1oz(200 g)
Yellow onions: 2
Fresh ginger: 7.1oz(200 g)
Star anise: 5
Coriander seeds: 1spoonful
Ground black pepper: 1spoonful
Coarse salt: 1spoonful
Noodles: 2cups(320 g)- rice
Beef sirloin: 0.44lb(200 g)
Fresh scallion: 1
Fresh chili pepper: ½
Chives: to taste
Coriander: to taste
Soybean sprouts: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 6 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make Vietnamese pho, first prepare the broth: place the beef bones in a pot, cover with cold water, and bring to a boil for a total of about 30 minutes . Meanwhile, peel and halve the onions , then also peel the fresh ginger and cut it into pieces .
After 30 minutes, remove the bones from the pot and discard the cooking water, then put the bones back in the same pot and cover again with plenty of cold water .
Add the halved onions , the ginger , the star anise ,
the coriander seeds , the whole peppercorns , and the coarse salt . Mix well and let it cook on low heat for 5 hours.
Towards the end of the broth cooking time, you can prepare the other ingredients: clean both the onions and the scallion and slice them thinly , chop the coriander and chives with a knife.
and slice the fresh chili into rings . Cut 200 g of sirloin for garnish into slices about 1/8 inch thick , while from the 200 g of sirloin for the broth you should cut chunks about 1 1/2 inches .
After 5 hours, strain the broth, keeping a moment aside the bones , then put them back in the pot with the strained broth . Add the sirloin chunks and cook for another 30 minutes, always on low heat, then taste and adjust the salt if necessary.
In the meantime, bring another pot of water to a boil, then rinse the noodles under cold running water and pour them into the pot with boiling water , turn off the heat and let them soak for about 5 minutes. At this point, drain the noodles and transfer them to the serving bowls, then proceed by adding the rest of the ingredients:
the slices of raw meat , a couple of pieces of cooked meat , a few slices of raw onion ,
some scallion , a pinch of chopped herbs , and the chili .
Pour the boiling broth over it , garnish with bean sprouts , and serve your beautiful Vietnamese pho! Serve the remaining garnishment ingredients in separate bowls so that everyone can add more to their bowl as desired !
Enjoy the Vietnamese pho immediately. The broth can be prepared in advance and stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, or you can freeze it.
If you don't like raw meat, you can omit it and use only the meat from the broth. In addition to the ingredients we suggested, you can complete the dish with fresh mint leaves, Thai basil, or a squeeze of lime which will add a pleasant acidic note. If desired, you can toast the spices in a pan before adding them to the broth: this way they will bring out their aroma even better! There is a rule for the right proportion between noodles and broth which should be one-third and two-thirds respectively.

