name:
Pumpkin gnocchi on purple potato cream
ingredients:
Mantuan pumpkin: 0.88lb(400 g)
Red potatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(320 g)
Eggs: 1
Purple potatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)- Vitellotte
Shallot: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Water: to taste
Lemon juice: ½
Fine salt: to taste
Hazelnuts: to taste
Butter: ½cup(120 g)
Sage: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the pumpkin gnocchi, first boil the potatoes for about 30-40 minutes, depending on their size. Meanwhile, cut the pumpkin into slices , remove the internal seeds, leaving the outer skin intact. Also, boil these; it will take about 20-25 minutes . Again, the time may vary depending on the type of pumpkin and the size of the slices; in any case, before draining it, check that it is soft.
In the meantime, make the purple potato cream. Peel the shallot and divide it into 8 . Peel the potatoes , cut them lengthwise, and then into thin slices .
In a hot saucepan, add 1 tablespoon of oil, add the shallots and potatoes , and let them toast for a couple of minutes. Cover with water , and add salt. Then, cover with a lid and let it cook for another 6 minutes.
Transfer to a blender , then blend everything until you get a cream. Add the juice of half a lemon and mix, this way the sauce will change color . Add a tablespoon of oil, mix and set aside.
In the meantime, the pumpkin will be cooked; drain it and leave it in the colander to remove excess water . When the potatoes are also cooked, drain them as well. Then, pour the flour onto a work surface and give it the classic fountain shape. Mash the warm potatoes in the center and also mash the pumpkin after removing the outer skin .
Knead with your hands and add the egg . Knead again until you have obtained a homogeneous mixture .
Then take a portion of the dough and create a rope from which you will cut pieces about 0.8 inches . Continue this way until you finish the dough, placing the gnocchi on a tray sprinkled with flour. Put a pot full of water on the fire that will be used for cooking the pasta; bring it to a boil and, in the meantime, coarsely chop the hazelnuts
and toast them in a pan . As soon as the water starts to boil, salt it, drop the gnocchi, and cook them until they rise to the surface. In the meantime, in another pan, melt the butter with the sage
and as the gnocchi are ready, drain them into the condiment . Continue in this way until they are finished. In the meantime, take back the purple potato cream and heat it; you can add a little milk or cream if necessary. All that remains is to plate. Place a ladle of purple potato cream on a plate , lay a portion of gnocchi on top ,
some toasted hazelnuts , and a few sage leaves . Serve the gnocchi on purple potato cream while still hot !
Once cooked, the pumpkin gnocchi on purple potato cream can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day. The raw gnocchi can be frozen on a tray and then transferred to a bag. You will need to cook them little by little from frozen.
Instead of purple potatoes, you can also use sweet potatoes with their orange color!

