name:
Rice gnocchi with mussels and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Rice flour: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Type 0 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Water: ¾cup(180 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Pomodori di Pachino (cherry tomatoes): 1 ½cup(200 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1tuft
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes of resting

instructions:
To prepare rice gnocchi with mussels and cherry tomatoes, start by making the rice gnocchi. In a bowl, add the rice flour and gradually add the water . Add the salt and mix roughly.
Add the all-purpose flour . Knead until you get a soft and non-sticky dough . If needed, add more all-purpose flour until fully absorbed. Dust the pastry board with flour, place the dough on it ;
and form a rectangle, about 3/5 inch thick and 2 3/4 - 3 1/8 inches wide . With a sharp knife, cut it into slices about 1/5 inch thick . With your fingertips, make slight pressures to give the classic elongated shape of rice gnocchi .
Let the gnocchi rest on the pastry board for about half an hour or until cooking time , covered with a cloth. Meanwhile, prepare the seasoning. Clean the mussels. Put them in a bowl and rinse under running water . Remove the beard with a firm tug. Clean the mussel shells, one by one, with a small knife or a steel wool pad . Rinse the mussels again under water.
Heat a pan, add the mussels and cover with a lid. After a few minutes, they will open . At this point, open the mussels one by one, removing the seafood and set aside . Keep a few whole for garnishing the dish.
Wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them into quarters or pieces . In a non-stick pan, sauté the chopped garlic with a bit of olive oil . Add the cherry tomatoes and cook until they are soft.
Salt and finally add the mussels , sauté for a few moments, and then flavor with chopped parsley . Cook the rice gnocchi in abundant salted water for about 12 minutes .
Drain and add the gnocchi to the seasoning in the pan . Sauté for a few minutes to mix all the ingredients and then serve the rice gnocchi with mussels and cherry tomatoes hot .
The rice gnocchi can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. They can also be frozen raw, place them on a tray well-spaced and put them in the freezer. Once they are hardened, you can transfer them to freezer bags.
To enrich the dish, you can also add other seasonal vegetables such as mushrooms, carrots, or zucchinis, sliced thinly.

