name:
Spiced Beef Salad and Grana Padano
ingredients:
Beef filet: 8.8oz(250 g)
Cucumbers: 1.3lbs(300 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 1.4cups(250 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- Aged over 20 months
Mint: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 4 ½tbsp(60 g)
Mint: 3leaves
Thyme: 1sprig
Red pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 8 min
Serving: 2
Note + 15 min. for marinating the meat

instructions:
To prepare the spiced beef salad and Grana Padano, first make the marinade for the meat: pour the olive oil into a tall, narrow glass , add the mint leaves , thyme ,
pink peppercorns , and black pepper and blend with an immersion blender until you get a smooth consistency.
Clean the beef fillet by removing any fat or connective tissue, then transfer it to a container and pour the herb and oil emulsion over it . Cover with plastic wrap and let it marinate at room temperature for about 15 minutes . You can turn the meat after 6-7 minutes to ensure the other side is well coated in the marinade.
In the meantime, focus on the rest of the dish: wash and then quarter the cherry tomatoes , peel the cucumber and slice it thinly with a vegetable peeler . Place the cucumbers in a bowl and add the chopped cherry tomatoes .
Now you can cook the meat: after marinating, cook the fillet on a very hot grill for about 3-4 minutes on each side (13-14). Transfer the fillet to a cutting board, let it rest for a few seconds, and slice it thinly across the grain .
Now you can complete the salad: lay the slices of meat over the cucumbers and tomatoes , add the Grana Padano DOP shavings , season with a drizzle of oil, salt, and pepper, and finally, garnish with a few fresh mint leaves. Your spiced beef salad and Grana Padano is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the spiced beef salad and Grana Padano immediately.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can save some of the flavored oil from the marinade to dress the salad at the end of the preparation.

