name:
Puff Pastries with Peppers and Gorgonzola
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- (1 rectangular roll)
Green peppers: 2
Gorgonzola cheese: 5.25oz(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 9 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the puff pastries with peppers and gorgonzola, first wash the peppers, remove the top, and empty them by extracting the seeds . Slice them to about 0.39 inches thick and then cut them into small pieces . Pour the extra virgin olive oil into a pan, add the garlic clove , and let it sauté for a few seconds.
Remove the garlic clove and add the peppers , sauté them for a minute, season with salt and black pepper, and cover the pan with a lid . Let the peppers cook for about five minutes, stirring occasionally to ensure even cooking. When done, turn off the heat and set aside .
Unroll the rectangular puff pastry sheet and cut it vertically to get 6 strips . Then cut it horizontally into 3 parts , thus obtaining 18 small rectangles .
Fill each rectangle with a teaspoon of gorgonzola , add the peppers , and close with another piece of puff pastry .
Seal the edges well with your fingertips and fold them over themselves (13-14). In a small bowl, break the egg, add salt and beat it with a fork.
Place the puff pastries with peppers and gorgonzola on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and then brush the surface with the egg . Bake the puff pastries with peppers and gorgonzola in a preheated oven at 356°F and let them bake for about 15-20 minutes until they are golden on the surface. Once cooked, take them out of the oven and let them cool slightly before serving.
Store the puff pastries with peppers and gorgonzola in the refrigerator for up to three days. Freezing is not recommended.
Unleash your creativity by filling the puff pastries with the most delicious ingredients you can think of: robiola and tuna, spinach and raisins, ham cubes and brie, the choice is yours!

