name:
Yellow Rice Croquettes with Stracchino
ingredients:
Vialone nano rice: 1cup(200 g)
Saffron threads: 0.1tsp(0.3 g)- (1 package)
Vegetable broth: to taste
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Stracchino cheese: 4.25oz(120 g)
Eggs: 2
Panko: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the yellow rice croquettes with stracchino, start by infusing the saffron. Place the threads in a small bowl and cover them with a bit of hot Vegetable broth : the same broth you will use to cook the risotto. Then stir and cover with plastic wrap. This way, the threads will release their color and aroma .
In a saucepan, heat a drizzle of oil, and when the base is hot, add the rice grains . Toast well for a couple of minutes, stirring continuously . It's time to start cooking. Wet the rice with the hot broth, adding a ladle whenever it's about to dry; stir occasionally .
Season with salt and halfway through cooking, add the saffron infusion and mix well . Continue cooking, and when it reaches the end, turn off the heat .
Add the butter and grated cheese and stir .
Transfer the mixture to a tray and spread it evenly. Cover with plastic wrap and let it cool in the fridge for at least 30 minutes . When the rice is well compacted and cold, take it out and take pieces of about 1 oz each .
Make a small hollow in the middle and place on a tray with parchment paper . Continue this way until you have about 30 pieces . In a bowl, work the stracchino with a spoon .
Then transfer it to a piping bag . Start squeezing some stracchino into the center of the hollows , and when you're done, proceed to close them. Join the ends .
Closing the heart well in the middle and form a ball . Continue this way until all the balls are formed .
Dip one ball at a time first in the beaten eggs and then in the panko , and when they are all ready, cook them. Immerse a few pieces at a time in deep hot oil at 284°F (check the temperature with a kitchen thermometer) .
As soon as they are golden , drain the croquettes directly on absorbent paper and continue cooking all the others . Here are your yellow rice and stracchino croquettes ready, salted on the surface and bon appétit !
Yellow rice and stracchino croquettes can be formed and stored for up to 12 hours in the fridge before dipping them in egg and breadcrumbs and then frying them. You can also freeze them once formed and fry them while still frozen. Once cooked, the croquettes can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days.
The panko covering the yellow rice and stracchino croquettes is nothing more than a coarser breadcrumb than the classic one, which can still be used if you can't find it. For a gluten-free version, you can replace the panko with gluten-free breadcrumbs or not-too-coarse cornmeal (fumetto or fioretto).

