name:
Baklava
ingredients:
Phyllo dough: 10.6oz(300 g)- fresh (rectangular)
Peeled almonds: 2 ¾cups(400 g)
Butter: 10.6oz(300 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Wildflower honey: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Water: 0.8cup(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time

instructions:
To make baklava, first melt the butter in a saucepan. Let the melted butter cool and in the meantime, work on the filling: place the blanched almonds in a food processor and roughly chop them, then add the ground cinnamon and mix well to combine .
Take a 14x10 inch baking pan (it must have the same size as the phyllo sheets) and brush the bottom with the melted butter . Place a first sheet of phyllo dough inside and brush it with the melted butter ,
then cover with a second sheet of phyllo dough , which you will again brush with melted butter. At this point, sprinkle one-third of the filling over the entire surface, cover with 2 more sheets of phyllo dough , each brushed with butter, and continue in this way alternating the filling with the layers of phyllo dough, each of which should be made up of 2 individually buttered sheets: you need to make a total of 3 layers.
After spreading the final layer of filling , finish the baklava with 8 sheets of phyllo dough stacked on top of each other, each brushed with butter : in total, you should use 14 phyllo sheets. At this point, cut the baklava into diamonds about 1.5 inches using a sharp knife and bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for 40 minutes on the middle shelf.
Meanwhile, prepare the syrup: heat the water in a saucepan, then add the sugar and the honey and let it cook over a very low flame for at least an hour .
Once baked, remove the baklava from the oven and let it cool completely. When the syrup is ready, pour it over the baklava while it is still very hot to fill all the crevices . Store the baklava in the refrigerator and enjoy it the next day !
Baklava can be stored in the refrigerator for about 4 days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can vary the mix of nuts to your liking by also using pistachios, walnuts, and hazelnuts. In addition, you can flavor the syrup with a few drops of vanilla extract. If you use frozen phyllo dough, it will need to thaw in the refrigerator overnight before use.

