name:
Black cherry cookies
ingredients:
Eggs: 5.5oz(155 g)- (about 3 eggs)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Cornstarch: 3 ⅛tbsp(25 g)
Sugar: 5 ½tbsp(70 g)
Type 00 flour: 3cups(400 g)
Butter: 0.67cup(150 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Egg yolks: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- (about 3)
Egg whites: 1.2oz(35 g)- (about 1)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black cherry jam: 1cup(300 g)
Pan di Spagna (Sponge cake): 7oz(200 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2tbsp(30 g)
Egg yolks: 1tbsp(14 g)- (about 1)
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Egg whites: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)- (about 1)
Lemon juice: 1tsp
Black cherry jam: 1tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 9
Cost: Average
Note plus resting and cooling times

instructions:
To prepare the black cherry cookies, first, make the Sponge cake . Pour the eggs into the bowl of a stand mixer. Start working them with the whisk and add the sugar . Whip the mixture until it becomes fluffy and foamy . It will take about 15 minutes. Meanwhile, butter and flour a 9-inch pan. When the eggs are well whipped, remove the bowl from the mixer and sift the cornstarch directly into it.
Then sift in the flour . Mix with a spatula from the bottom up with very gentle movements so as not to deflate the mixture. Once you have obtained a uniform batter
pour it into the pan and bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F for 25 minutes in the central rack. Always do the toothpick test before taking the cake out of the oven. Once cooked, remove the sponge cake from the oven , and carefully unmold it immediately, letting it cool completely on a wire rack .
While the sponge cake is cooling, make the shortcrust pastry. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, add the diced butter and sugar . Work everything until you get a creamy mixture , then add the egg white and wait until it is completely absorbed,
before adding the yolks . Work for another couple of minutes until they are completely absorbed. Still with the mixer running at moderate speed, add the flour and salt .
Work until you get a homogeneous mixture . At this point, transfer it to a work surface, shape it into a disk and wrap it in plastic wrap . Let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour.
When the sponge cake is completely cold and the shortcrust pastry is almost firm in the refrigerator, you can start preparing the filling. Crumble the sponge cake into a bowl (1-2), you will need 200 grams. Then add the yolk ,
the cocoa , and the black cherry jam . Knead everything with your hands
until you get a homogeneous and soft mixture . Transfer it onto a sheet of baking paper that you have placed on the work surface . Using a dough scraper, shape the mixture into a rectangle measuring approximately 12.5x3 inches and place it in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
When the shortcrust pastry has rested, take the disk and roll it out on a lightly floured surface , until you get a square about 1/4 inch thick, a couple of inches longer than the filling (about 13.5 inches) . Then place the black cherry filling in the center of the rectangle , remove the parchment paper
and using a dough scraper, straighten the edges of the shortcrust pastry so that the two edges meet covering the filling without overlapping (4-5). You can freeze the excess shortcrust pastry wrapped in plastic to make cookies later. Once you have removed the excess
fold the two edges toward the center and lightly pinch the dough with your fingers to make them adhere perfectly. Then flip it onto a tray lined with baking paper and refrigerate for at least 10 minutes.
In these 10 minutes, prepare the glaze. Pour the egg white into a bowl and add the lemon juice . Then start working with electric whisks, adding the powdered sugar little by little until you get a thick glaze .
Then take the log and cut off the dough without filling . Place some glaze in the center and spread it to cover the entire surface .
Once you have completely covered the log , use a toothpick to create a groove along one side about 0.4 inches from the edge . Do the same on the other side. Then create a parchment paper cone and fill it with the jam .
Then use it to fill the grooves you just created with the toothpick (19-20). At this point, you just need to cut cookies about 1.4 inches wide .
Place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake in a preheated static oven at 347°F on the central rack for 20-25 minutes. Remove the black cherry cookies from the oven and let them cool before serving .
Black cherry cookies can be stored in an airtight container for 5 days.
It is advisable to prepare the sponge cake and the shortcrust pastry the day before to speed up the cookie assembly.
Sift the jam before using it for decoration!

