name:
Eggplant and Cherry Tomato Frittata
ingredients:
Eggs: 8
Datterino tomatoes: 2cups(300 g)
Eggplant: 0.75lb(350 g)
Fresh scallion: 3.2oz(90 g)
Brown sugar: 1tsp
Caciocavallo cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Sunflower seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the eggplant and cherry tomato frittata, first wash the eggplants, trim them, and cut them first into slices and then into cubes about 0.4 inches thick (1-2). Heat plenty of oil and bring it to a temperature of 340°F. When hot, immerse the eggplants little by little ,
and fry them for about 4 minutes . When cooked, drain them and transfer them to a tray lined with absorbent paper to remove excess oil . Now move on to the spring onion: remove the end part with the roots
and cut it into rings . Then cut the cherry tomatoes in half . Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan
add the spring onions and the cherry tomatoes . Salt and pepper
and add 1 teaspoon of brown sugar . Let it cook for 5 minutes over high heat, then add the fried eggplants and toss everything together.
Add a few basil leaves and lower the heat . Meanwhile, cut the caciocavallo into cubes . Then in a bowl, break the eggs, add the Parmesan
and the caciocavallo . Whisk everything together and pour into the pan .
Wait a few seconds , then cover with a lid and let cook for about ten minutes over medium-low heat. After the 10 minutes, using a spatula, detach the edges of the frittata from the pan
and using the lid, or a larger plate, flip the frittata . Continue cooking for another 2 minutes and serve your frittata with eggplants and cherry tomatoes .
The eggplant and cherry tomato frittata can be stored in the refrigerator well-covered for up to 1 day.
Instead of caciocavallo, you can use scamorza or another melting cheese. You can flavor the frittata with thyme or oregano.
If you want to skip the frying step, you can cook the eggplants together with the cherry tomatoes.
The addition of brown sugar to the pan with the spring onions and cherry tomatoes helps to soften the aromatic note of the spring onion and caramelize the vegetables.

