name:
Layered Tart
ingredients:
Eggs: 4.2oz(120 g)- (2 large)
Powdered sugar: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Type 00 flour: 4 ¾cups(600 g)
Egg yolks: 3tbsp(44 g)- (about 2)
Butter: ¾cup(180 g)- cold
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(6 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Lemon peel: 1
Vanilla bean: ½
Cherry jam: 1cup(320 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time for the pastry (60 minutes)

instructions:
To prepare the layered tart, first make the shortcrust pastry. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, add the powdered sugar , the butter , the lemon zest, and the seeds scraped from the vanilla pod . Mix the ingredients until well combined
add the whole eggs , let them absorb, and then add the egg yolks . Mix for another moment, then add the salt .
then the flour and baking powder . Turn on the stand mixer and mix until you achieve a uniform dough .
Transfer the shortcrust dough to a surface and form it into a ball, then wrap it in plastic wrap and refrigerate for one hour. After this time, divide the dough into four equal parts .
Dust a surface with a little flour and roll out one portion of the dough to a thickness of about 1/5 inch . If the room temperature is too high, keep the rest of the dough in the fridge. Using a 10-inch ring, cut out the first pastry circle and transfer it to a 9-inch springform pan. Since the circle is larger than the pan, a border will naturally form to hold the jam.
Place 1/3 of the jam inside and spread it over the entire surface of the tart . Take another portion of dough and roll it out to a 1/5-inch thickness , then cut another 10-inch circle to place over the jam, pressing the edges against the pan.
Cover with half of the remaining jam . Then cut out a final 10-inch circle of dough, also 1/5 inch thick, and place it on top as before, pressing the edges against the pan . Spread the remaining jam over the tart .
Take the last portion of dough, roll it out to a 1/5-inch thickness, and cut strips 0.4 inches wide and slightly longer than the tart diameter . Place the first set of strips parallel to each other, spacing them out. Rotate the pan and make a second set of strips, weaving them over the first set .
This will create the classic lattice pattern . Use a knife to trim any excess dough from the edges . With a fork, decorate the edges of the layered tart by gently pressing the pastry downwards .
At this point , it's time to bake. Preheat the oven to 356°F and bake for 60 minutes. Then remove from the oven and let it cool completely before removing from the pan and serving your layered tart .
The layered tart can be stored under a glass dome for 3 days. The shortcrust pastry can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3-4 days.
Re-knead the shortcrust scraps and use them to make delicious cookies. Use different jams, and decorate the surface by arranging the lattice in different ways!

