name:
Matcha Tea Roll
ingredients:
Eggs: 3- medium
Type 00 flour: ½cup(60 g)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)- ( + as needed for sprinkling)
Matcha Green Tea: 2tbsp(30 g)- soluble
Baking powder: ½bag
Fresh liquid cream: 0.833cup(200 g)- unsweetened
Condensed milk: ½cup(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 8 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note plus resting time

instructions:
To prepare the matcha tea roll, first make the sponge cake. Crack the eggs into a bowl, add 80 g of sugar and whip the mixture with electric beaters until it is thick and foamy .
Add the flour and matcha tea . Then incorporate the powders with a spatula, mixing from the bottom to the top ,
until you obtain a homogeneous mixture . Then add the baking powder and mix as previously done .
Pour the mixture onto a baking tray lined with parchment paper measuring 12x16 inches . Gently level the surface and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 8 minutes. Once baked, remove the sponge cake from the oven and transfer it to the work surface, being careful not to burn yourself. Sprinkle the surface with granulated sugar , then flip it over and gently remove the parchment paper.
Roll up the sponge cake in the parchment paper , then wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest. In the meantime, prepare the milk cream: pour the cold heavy cream into a bowl and start whipping it with beaters ,
until you obtain a firm and fluffy consistency . At this point, add the condensed milk and continue working the mixture with the electric mixer. When the cream is homogeneous, place it in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes. Then gently unroll the sponge cake and pour the cream in the center .
Then spread it evenly and roll up the cake from the shorter side . If necessary, you can trim the edges of the cake before rolling it. Place the roll in the refrigerator for at least an hour before serving it .
The matcha tea roll can be kept in the refrigerator for a couple of days, well covered with plastic wrap.
Enrich the milk cream with chocolate chips.

