name:
Savory cream tart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 1.8oz(52 g)- about 1
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- cold
Coarse salt: 0.9tsp(5 g)
Cream cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Carrots: 1
Zucchini: 1
Lemons: 1
Black olives: 5- pitted
Cherry tomatoes: 9- colorful
Poppy seeds: to taste
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note plus 1 hour of resting in the fridge

instructions:
To prepare the cream tart, first place the flour, cold butter cut into cubes , coarse salt , and finally the eggs in a food processor.
Run the mixer until it has compacted . Then transfer to a work surface and form a dough ball; wrap it in plastic wrap and place it in the fridge for at least 1 hour.
Trim the ends of zucchini and carrots, then peel the carrots. Using a vegetable peeler, slice both vegetables into very thin strips. Drizzle a bit of oil in a baking dish and add the carrots and the zucchini .
Add a pinch of salt, the zest of the lemon , and the juice of half . Mix everything with a fork , cover with plastic wrap, and let marinate in the refrigerator.
After the dough has rested, roll it out with a rolling pin until it's about 1/4 inch thick . You should roll out the dough so you can cut out 2 discs 7 inches in diameter .
Then use a 3.5-inch pastry cutter to cut a circle inside your disc . Place the two rings on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper (17-18) and bake in a static oven at 350°F for about 20 minutes. With the leftover dough, you can make savory tartlets or small biscuits to decorate the same cream tart.
After 20 minutes, remove the rings from the oven and let them cool . Meanwhile, prepare the cheese cream. Place the cream cheese in a bowl and work it with a whisk . While continuing to mix, also add the cream slowly and salt the mixture.
Transfer the obtained cream into a piping bag with a 1/2 inch plain tip . Then cut the cherry tomatoes in half lengthwise . Place one of the savory shortcrust rings on a serving plate, then pipe dollops of cream over the entire surface.
Place the second disc on top and create another layer of cream, as just done (26-27).
Now decorate the surface of the savory cream tart with the zucchini slices, carrot slices, and cherry tomatoes . Garnish with poppy seeds and serve .
The savory cream tart can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, well covered. The savory shortcrust can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days, wrapped in plastic wrap. Alternatively, it can be frozen for 1 month.
Get creative with the decorations using smoked salmon, cooked ham, or salami. Use sun-dried tomatoes, olives, and caperberries!

