name:
Fried Poached Egg with Vegetables, Bacon, and Béarnaise Sauce
ingredients:
Eggs: 4- medium, very fresh
Bacon: 6.7oz(190 g)
Green beans: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
White wine vinegar: 1spoonful
Eggs: 1
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: to taste- high oleic
Egg yolks: 2
Clarified butter: 0.67cup(150 g)
Water: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Dry white wine: 1oz(25 g)
White wine vinegar: 1tsp(5 g)
Shallot: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the fried poached egg with vegetables, bacon, and béarnaise sauce, first clean the shallot and cut it into wedges . Then pour the water into a small pot , and the vinegar .
and the white wine . Add the shallots and bring everything to a boil for a couple of minutes . Then strain the liquid obtained into a small jug .
Place a pot with water on the stove for cooking the sauce in a bain-marie. Then pour the eggs into a large, bain-marie-proof bowl and start whisking them with a whisk, adding the freshly prepared liquid, still warm. Continue until the eggs become frothy . Transfer the bowl to the pot of water, which will almost be boiling, and continue whisking with electric whisks, adding the clarified butter in a thin stream , until you get the desired consistency.
It should be smooth, thick, and creamy . Then add a pinch of salt and cover with plastic wrap in contact .
In the meantime, take care of the green beans. Pour a drizzle of oil into a pan, add the green beans , salt, pepper , and sauté over high heat for about 5 minutes .
Meanwhile, also take care of the bacon. Cut it into thin slices about 1/16 inch thick and brown them in a well-heated pan . When it is well browned, transfer it to a sheet of absorbent paper .
Now you can prepare your Poached eggs . Pour water into a large pan, turn on the heat, and add the wine vinegar. When the water starts to boil lightly, use a spoon to create a vortex by stirring in the same direction. Then pour the egg into the center, for convenience crack it first into a small bowl . Cook the egg in this way for 2 minutes, without stirring or moving the egg .
Then scoop it out with a slotted spoon, transfer it to a plate, and prepare the other eggs in the same way . Wait a few minutes; they should not be boiling hot. In the meantime, break the egg into a bowl , then immerse one of the poached eggs inside
and use a spoon to turn it, so it is completely coated . Then pass it in the breadcrumbs and use a slotted spoon to remove excess breadcrumbs .
Fry them one at a time in hot oil at 374°F , measure the temperature with a kitchen thermometer. It will only take a few moments for each egg. As soon as the surface is golden, drain the egg and transfer it to a tray with paper towels .
Fry all the eggs and proceed to compose the dish. Spread a little béarnaise sauce in the center , place the bacon and green beans on either side of the plate , and finally the egg on top of the sauce .
We recommend consuming the fried poached egg immediately. The sauce can be stored for two days in the refrigerator, well-covered, just like the green beans.
Add fresh chopped tomatoes and flavor your béarnaise sauce with aromatic herbs and lemon zest to taste.

