name:
Buckwheat gnocchetti with Grana Padano and pepper
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.2lbs(550 g)- yellow-fleshed
Buckwheat flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 1
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- Aged over 20 months
Whole milk: ¼cup(70 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare the buckwheat gnocchetti with Grana Padano PDO and pepper, first boil the potatoes with their skins on for about 30 minutes or until they are soft (the cooking time also depends on the size of your potatoes). Once the potatoes are cooked, pour the flour onto a work surface and mash the still-hot potatoes with their skins in the center with a potato masher .
Begin to gather the ingredients with your hands , then add the egg and continue to knead vigorously until you obtain a compact dough.
Form a loaf . Use a bench scraper to cut portions of dough and shape each into a log .
Cut these logs into 1 cm (about 0.39 inch) pieces using a bench scraper or knife . Roll each piece on a gnocchi board to create the typical ridges. If you don't have a gnocchi board, you can use the tines of a fork to achieve the same pattern. As you prepare the gnocchi, place them on a tray covered with a tea towel . Once you've finished the gnocchi, set a pot of salted water on the stove to boil.
Now, prepare the sauce: pour the milk into a pan , bring it to the brink of boiling, and then add the grated Grana Padano PDO . Stir to melt the cheese .
When you have obtained a velvety consistency , cook the gnocchi for a few minutes in boiling water , and as they rise to the surface, use a slotted spoon to transfer them directly into the pan with the sauce .
Season with freshly ground pepper to taste and serve your buckwheat gnocchetti with Grana Padano PDO and pepper hot (17-18).
Store leftover gnocchi in the refrigerator and consume within two days. You can freeze the uncooked gnocchi: in this case, place the tray in the freezer, and after about 20 minutes, transfer the potato gnocchi into a food bag, repeating the process until they are all frozen. To cook them, simply drop them into boiling salted water without thawing first.
To this delicious dish, you can add sautéed sausage, saffron, and aromatic herbs to your liking.
Looking for another tasty gluten-free first course? Try the gluten-free gnocchi alla sorrentina!

