name:
Chickpea Flour Gnocchi with Snow Peas and Yellow Cherry Tomatoes
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- yellow-fleshed
Chickpea flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 1.9oz(55 g)- (about 1)
Snap peas: 0.6lb(250 g)- yellow
Yellow cherry tomatoes: 7.1oz(200 g)- in brine or fresh
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Water: 1glass

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare chickpea flour gnocchi with snow peas and yellow cherry tomatoes, start by cooking the potatoes in cold water for 30-40 minutes . When they are soft, drain them and mash them with the appropriate tool; it won't be necessary to peel them. Then place the chickpea flour on a pastry board and pour the potatoes in the center . Knead with your hands for a few moments
then add the egg and work everything until you have a homogeneous mixture . Take a portion of the dough and shape it until you get a log about 1 inch thick .
Then cut it into small pieces and, by passing them on the gnocchi board with slight pressure from your thumb , give them the classic shape. Continue this way until you finish the dough, arranging the gnocchi on a tray dusted with chickpea flour.
Move on to the sauce. Wash the snow peas, trim them , and cut them into rather small pieces . Pour a drizzle of oil into a pan, add a peeled garlic clove , and let it brown.
Then add the snow peas and stir . Next, add the whole cherry tomatoes ,
stir again and add plenty of basil . Salt and pepper
and pour 1 glass of water . Cover with a lid and let cook for about 10 minutes, adding more water if needed. Remove the garlic and turn off the heat. Meanwhile, put a pot full of water on the stove, salted to taste, which will be used for cooking the gnocchi.
Transfer everything to a high-sided container and blend with an immersion blender until you get a cream .
Cook a few gnocchi at a time in the water, which should now be boiling . Meanwhile, pour the sauce back into the pan and add a ladle of cooking water . When the gnocchi float to the surface, drain them and transfer them to the sauce ;
continue cooking all the gnocchi, adding them one by one with the others . Sauté for 1 minute, then place the gnocchi on plates and garnish with a drizzle of oil and black pepper . Serve the chickpea flour gnocchi with snow peas and yellow cherry tomatoes while still hot .
Chickpea flour gnocchi can be stored raw, leaving them on the towel for a couple of hours at most; in this case, the cooking time will be slightly longer because they will have dried in the air. You can also freeze the raw gnocchi; in this case, place the tray in the freezer, and after about 20 minutes, put the gnocchi in a food bag, and continue until they are all frozen. To cook them, just throw them in boiling salted water without defrosting them first. Cooked gnocchi can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
A delicious variation? Bake the gnocchi in the oven with some cheese until they are well gratinated!

