name:
Rice and beetroot burgers with Grana Padano sauce
ingredients:
Beets: 3.5oz(100 g)- (about 1 whole)
Ribe rice: 0.6cup(100 g)
Whole grain rolls: 6
Iceberg lettuce: to taste
Cluster tomatoes: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Mint: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- Aged over 20 months
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 45 min
Makes: 6 pieces

instructions:
To make the rice and beetroot burger with Grana Padano sauce, start by carefully washing the beetroot and then cooking it whole, with the skin on, in plenty of unsalted water for about 70 minutes or until it is tender . Remember to save the beetroot cooking water because you'll need it to cook the rice. Once the beetroot is cooked, peel it and blend it using a hand blender ;
You should achieve a creamy consistency . Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan and toast the rice over high heat for a minute .
Continue cooking the rice by adding the hot beetroot water . Salt, add mint leaves , and about halfway through, pour in the beetroot puree . Stir to flavor and continue cooking by adding beetroot broth as needed.
After about 25 minutes, the risotto will be ready; it should be firm . Spread the rice on a tray , distributing it evenly, cover it with cling film in contact with the surface , and place it in the fridge to cool because it needs to be very cold to form the burgers.
Now take the buns, cut them in half , place them on a baking sheet, drizzle with a little oil , and toast them in a preheated oven at 392°F (200°C) for about five minutes. Keep the bread warm and continue with the preparations.
Prepare the Grana Padano DOP sauce: bring the milk to a boil , add the grated Grana Padano DOP , and stir well ;
until you achieve a rather fluid consistency . Shape your burgers: take the cold rice , scoop about 2 oz (60 grams) of rice, and shape it using a 3-inch ring mold , pressing the rice firmly.
As you shape the burgers, place them on a tray lined with parchment paper . Pour a little oil into a pan, and when it's hot, sear your burgers on both sides for a couple of minutes .
Finely slice the iceberg lettuce and slice the beefsteak tomato . Now assemble your burgers as follows: place half of a bun on a plate, then layer with the burgers ,
a generous amount of Grana Padano DOP sauce , a slice of tomato, the lettuce , and close with the other half of the bun . Your rice and beetroot burgers with Grana Padano sauce are ready, enjoy them right away!
Store the rice and beetroot burgers with Grana Padano sauce in the fridge and consume them within 3 days. The formed rice burgers can be frozen before pan-cooking.
Accompany your burgers with oven-baked potatoes, grilled vegetables, or a sauté of seasonal mushrooms!

