name:
Rolls with Grana Padano and vegetables
ingredients:
Pizza dough: 0.9lb(400 g)- (already rolled out)
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- rectangular
Chicory: 0.9lb(400 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 2cups(150 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- Aged over 20 months
Almond slices: ⅓cup(40 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 13 pieces

instructions:
To make the rolls with Grana Padano and vegetables, first prepare the chicory: remove the ends of the stalks , cut it into 3 parts , and rinse it under running water .
In a skillet, sauté a clove of garlic in its skin with a little oil , then add the chicory, cover with a lid , and cook over medium heat for 8 minutes. Season the chicory with salt and pepper and let it cool.
Now take care of the mushrooms: with a small knife, remove the end of the stem and peel the outer part of the cap , then gently wipe the mushrooms with a damp paper towel to remove any soil residue and slice them thinly .
In a skillet, sauté a clove of garlic with a little oil, then add the mushrooms , season with salt and pepper , and cook over medium heat for about 5 minutes, then let them cool.
Finally, toast the almonds in a hot pan for about 3 minutes, being careful not to burn them . At this point, you can start assembling the ingredients: roll out the puff pastry on the work surface , then roll out the pizza dough over it, matching them up .
Spread the chicory over the entire surface, leaving a bit of margin on the edges, then add the mushrooms and the toasted almonds, leaving some aside for decoration . Finally, cover everything with the Grana Padano PDO slices that you obtained with the help of a vegetable peeler .
Roll the double pastry on itself from the longer side and press gently to seal the closure , then remove the ends and cut the roll into slices about 1 1/4 inches thick .
Transfer the slices to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and decorate with the almonds set aside , then bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 25 minutes, placing the baking sheet on the middle rack. Once golden, remove from the oven and serve your puff pastry rolls with Grana Padano and vegetables hot !
We recommend consuming the puff pastry rolls with Grana Padano and vegetables on the same day. Freezing is not recommended.
You can replace the chicory with another leafy vegetable of your choice!

