name:
Mexican breakfast
ingredients:
Tortillas: 4- small
Eggs: 4
Precooked black beans: 1cup(200 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 7.1oz(200 g)- (red, green, yellow)
Red spring onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Cheddar cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Feta cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1- long
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Avocado: 2
Lime: 1- (juice and zest)
Fine salt: 1tsp
Black pepper: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the Mexican breakfast, start by draining and rinsing the black beans, then set them aside . Take care of the tomatoes: wash them and cut them in half , then chop the chili pepper, removing the stem and inner seeds .
Clean the red spring onion and slice it thickly , then immerse it in ice water: this way it will remain crunchy and lose some of its odor . Finally, make the guacamole: after cutting the avocado in half, remove the central pit, then make vertical and horizontal cuts. Hold the fruit in your hand and be careful not to pierce the skin to avoid injuring yourself with the blade .
Scoop out the cubes with a spoon and place them in a bowl , grate the lime zest and add it to the avocado, then squeeze its juice and add that too . Season with salt, pepper
and oil , then mash everything with a fork to obtain a coarse puree that you will set aside .
Finally, fry the eggs by dropping them into a pan with a little hot oil . When the white is set and the yolk is still runny, move the eggs to a plate . In the same pan, briefly heat the tortillas one at a time ,
then flip them over and place the cheddar, broken by hand, on the hot side so that it melts completely . Transfer the tortilla to a plate and assemble the rest of the ingredients: distribute a spoonful of tomatoes , then the black beans ,
the chili pepper , the drained spring onion , and garnish with a few spoonfuls of guacamole .
Finish with a bit of crumbled feta cheese and place the sunny-side-up egg in the center . Adjust with salt and pepper, and your Mexican breakfast is ready !
It is not recommended to store the Mexican breakfast in any way.
You can further enrich your Mexican breakfast by adding roasted turkey breast or roasted pork. A few drops of Tabasco drizzled here and there will make the dish even more inviting!

