name:
Chocolate Salami with Exotic Fruits
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 4.6oz(130 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Digestive biscuits: 2.5oz(75 g)
Mix of dried fruits: 1.8oz(50 g)- (exotic: pineapple, mango, and papaya)
Dates: 1.75oz(50 g)- pitted
Ginger: 0.375oz(10 g)- candied
Dehydrated coconut: 2tsp(10 g)
Rum: ½tbsp(10 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate salami with exotic fruits, start by melting the chocolate in a bain-marie or microwave, then add the butter and mix until it melts . Set aside to cool slightly and in the meantime, chop the dried mango, pineapple, and papaya . Gather in a bowl and soak with rum .
In the meantime, also chop the candied ginger , the dried coconut , and the pitted dates .
Finally, crumble the cookies in a bowl and proceed to form the chocolate salami. In the bowl with the melted chocolate mixed with butter, add the dates , the dried fruit mix that will have absorbed the rum in the meantime ,
the coconut , the ginger , and finally the crumbled cookies .
Mix well until you get a homogeneous mixture and transfer it onto a sheet of parchment paper dusted with powdered sugar . Shape well with your hands, always using the parchment paper to help you, and form a large log . Finally, wrap the salami like a candy in the parchment paper by rolling and tightening the two ends .
Transfer onto a tray and let it set in the fridge for at least 1 hour . Once the time has passed, remove the parchment paper and slice your chocolate salami with exotic fruits ready to be enjoyed .
The chocolate salami with exotic fruits can be stored in the refrigerator for 5-6 days in an airtight container. Alternatively, it can be frozen for up to 1 month.
Choose the dried fruit according to your taste so your chocolate salami with exotic fruits will always be different! For a non-alcoholic version, use orange juice. Finally, if you like, you can make small salamis to give to friends and family or during a birthday party!

