name:
Quick blackberry and gorgonzola flatbreads
ingredients:
Water: 1cup(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(12 g)
Fine salt: 0.875tsp(5 g)
Blackberries: 3cups(500 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Sugar: 4spoonfuls
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Maldon salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the rising time (at least 2 ½ hours in total)

instructions:
To prepare the blackberry and gorgonzola flatbread, start with the leavened dough: dissolve the yeast in water at room temperature, stirring with a wooden spoon , then slowly pour the mixture into a bowl with the flour . Continue kneading until the dough comes together, then also pour in the oil in a thin stream and keep kneading with the wooden spoon until it is necessary to use your hands .
Add the salt and then continue kneading for a few more minutes . Transfer the dough to a greased bowl and cover with plastic wrap; let it rise in a warm place for a couple of hours or until it has doubled in volume .
Before rolling out the dough, put the blackberries in a container , season with the sugar , mix, and set aside. Retrieve the dough and transfer it to a lightly floured work surface .
Divide it into 8 equal pieces using a dough scraper and shape each piece into a ball by folding the edges towards the center (11-12).
Form a ball , then flatten it with a rolling pin, or with your fingertips, and place the first 4 flatbreads on a baking tray with parchment paper. Arrange the blackberries in the center, which will have macerated a bit by now, leaving a 1/2-inch border .
Place the remaining 4 flatbreads on top and press the edges well to release the air, sealing the ends carefully . Sprinkle the flatbreads with the remaining blackberries
and press gently to make them adhere . Drizzle with a little oil and let rise for half an hour in the turned-off oven. Retrieve the flatbreads and preheat the oven, meanwhile, season by adding some rosemary needles and salt , then cut the gorgonzola into cubes.
Bake the flatbreads in a static oven at 375°F for 40-45 minutes until they are well browned . As soon as you take out the baking tray, sprinkle with the pieces of cheese and serve your blackberry and gorgonzola flatbreads while still hot !
Blackberry and gorgonzola flatbreads can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day. To make them crispy again, we recommend reheating them in the oven for a few moments before enjoying them. Freezing cooked or raw flatbreads is not recommended as the fruit might release too much liquid.
Blackberry and gorgonzola flatbreads can be enhanced with other cheeses such as goat blue or Roquefort, while the choice of gorgonzola, whether sweet or spicy, is up to you!

