name:
Chocolate brioche pastries
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 5 ½cups(680 g)
Rice flour: ½cup(55 g)
Fioretto corn flour: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (approximately 1)
Butter: ¼cup(60 g)- at room temperature
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.4oz(10 g)
Whole milk: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Dark chocolate chips: 7oz(200 g)
Whole milk: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 18 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus rising times (2 and a half hours)

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate brioche pastries, first, take care of the dough. Pour the all-purpose flour, rice flour , and corn flour into the bowl of a stand mixer. Then add the crumbled yeast ,
the milk , and sugar . Start mixing everything with the hook until the ingredients are well combined.
At this point, add the egg and continue working until it is completely absorbed. Then add the vanilla bean seeds and the first piece of butter . Turn the machine back on and add the butter little by little until the dough has fully absorbed it.
Then add the salt and work again at medium speed until the dough is well-kneaded . It will take about 8 minutes.
Pour the dough onto a lightly floured surface and shape it into a ball . Then transfer it into a bowl and cover it with plastic wrap . Let it rise for about 2 hours at room temperature, away from drafts, or in the oven with the light on and the oven off.
When the dough has doubled in size , transfer it to a lightly floured surface . Roll it out using a rolling pin
until you get a rectangle measuring 24x12 inches . At this point, make small cuts along the longer side every 4 inches . Then, along the shorter side, make a strip 4 inches wide
and then another, also 4 inches wide , so you have 3. Then cut each strip into 6 squares (4x4 inches) , to obtain a total of 18 pieces. Dip a brush in milk and use it to brush only the top half of each square .
Then place a couple of teaspoons of chocolate chips on the just-moistened edge and roll it towards you halfway across the square . On the remaining empty part, create 5 strips of the same width .
Brush the body of the brioche with milk and lift the strips to make them adhere, covering the filled part (29-30).
Transfer the brioches one by one onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , brush the surface with milk , and sprinkle with powdered sugar .
Let rise again for 30 minutes at room temperature , then bake in a preheated static oven at 365°F for 20 minutes on the middle rack. Remove from the oven and let cool slightly before serving .
They keep for 2 days in airtight bags. You can freeze them after shaping (before the second rise) or after baking.
You can fill the chocolate brioche pastries with milk chocolate, jams, or creams.

