name:
Lemon Charlotte
ingredients:
Ladyfingers: 17
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(225 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Lemons: 9oz(250 g)
Sugar: 0.67cup(125 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.625cup(150 g)
Water: 0.7cup(150 g)
Sugar: ⅓cup(75 g)
Lemons: 3slices
Lemons: 2leaves

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the lemon charlotte, start with the lemon paste. After washing and drying them, cut them into large pieces and place them in a bowl. Sprinkle with sugar , mix
and cover with plastic wrap, letting it macerate for about half an hour at room temperature . Once the lemons have released some liquid , transfer the whole mixture to a steel saucepan
and let it cook over medium-low heat for about 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. At the end of cooking, the mixture will be thick but with some visible syrup : let it cool for 5 minutes before pouring it into a blender jug and then blend it with an immersion blender and transfer it to a bowl .
Pour the mascarpone into a bowl and add 100 g of lukewarm lemon paste or thinned with a few drops of water . Mix well to incorporate and set aside for a moment . Whip the cream at medium-high speed
and when it’s firm, pour half of it into the bowl with the mascarpone and mix well . Then add the remaining part by folding it in from bottom to top . Put the cream in the fridge, covering with plastic wrap, and move on to the ladyfingers .
Cut them with a knife into 2.5 inch pieces . Arrange them on a plate and inside an 18 cm pastry ring forming a crown . Pour the cream inside
and carefully level the surface . Put the dessert in the freezer for about an hour and in the meantime take care of the decoration . Then wash the lemon, slice it into 1/8-1/6 inch thick discs, and set them aside for a moment .
Prepare a syrup by pouring the water into a saucepan along with the sugar . Turn the heat to maximum power and let the water evaporate for a few minutes until the mixture becomes a viscous syrup. Then turn off the heat and immerse the 3 lemon slices , immediately turning them over and letting them cool .
Take the now cold charlotte, remove the pastry ring , and arrange a ribbon to decorate the outside . Whip the cream, put it in a piping bag with a star nozzle .
Garnish with whipped cream by squeezing dollops near the ladyfingers and finally place the three lemon slices by overlapping them . Decorate with lemon leaves and your lemon charlotte is ready, enjoy your meal !
The lemon charlotte can be stored for 2-3 days in the refrigerator well covered with a glass dome. If you prefer, you can also freeze it.
To give your lemon charlotte a touch of crunchiness, you can add toasted almond flakes directly between one layer of cream and another. Make the Homemade Mascarpone following our recipe!
If you love desserts with citrus notes, also discover the Lemon tiramisu

