name:
Almond puddings with strawberry jam
ingredients:
Almond milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Peeled almonds: ¼cup(30 g)
Cornstarch: 1.75oz(50 g)
Sugar: 7tbsp(90 g)
Strawberry jam: 3tbsp(60 g)
Lemons: 1- small
Berries: to taste
Strawberries: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + at least 2-3 hours of rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare almond puddings with strawberry jam, first put the almonds in a food processor , then blend them until you get a flour . Pour the corn starch into a sufficiently large saucepan ,
the almond flour , and the sugar . Separately, in another saucepan, heat the almond milk .
In the meantime, stir the powders to combine them . When the milk is hot, pour it in little by little and continuously mix with a whisk until everything dissolves .
Turn the heat back on and cook until the cream starts to thicken . Then lower the heat and cook for a few more minutes. Then transfer the still hot cream into pudding molds, preferably silicone . The cream is enough for 4 molds about 2.5 inches in diameter and 2 inches deep. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate to set for about 2-3 hours.
After this time, prepare the sauce. Squeeze the lemon and keep the strained juice aside . Then pour the jam into a bowl , add the lemon juice
and blend everything with an immersion blender until you get a smooth sauce . Then take the puddings and gently unmold them ,
garnish with the strawberry jam sauce and decorate with strawberries , mixed berries, and mint .
Almond puddings with strawberry jam can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. If necessary, they can be frozen, along with the accompanying sauce. For refrigerator storage, cover the puddings with plastic wrap or place them in a bowl with a lid.
As an alternative to blanched almonds to grind, you can use almond flour, which is easily available in supermarkets. During cooking, you can add the zest of a lemon to the cream, to be removed before pouring into molds, or the seeds of a vanilla bean.

