name:
Risotto with cauliflower, sausage, and brie
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.4cups(280 g)
Cauliflower: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (to clean)
Sausage: 8.8oz(250 g)
Brie cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
White onions: 1
Vegetable broth: 3.3cups(800 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)- (to grate)
Dry white wine: 0.8cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ⅓tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the risotto with cauliflower, sausage, and brie, first prepare the vegetable broth, then deal with the cauliflower: remove the outer leaves, discard the stalk, separate the florets , and rinse them under running water. Bring a pot of lightly salted water to a boil, add the cauliflower , and blanch it for about 7-8 minutes. Meanwhile, cut the sausage into small pieces, after removing the casing , and thinly slice the onion.
Heat the oil in a large pan, add the onion and sausage , and sauté over medium heat for 2-3 minutes, stirring often. Once the sausage is browned, pour the rice into the pan
and toast it for a few minutes, continuing to stir . When the rice becomes translucent, deglaze with the white wine and let it evaporate completely. At this point, add the blanched cauliflower and mix well,
then pour the boiling broth into the pan , stir again, lower the heat, and cover with a lid . Let it cook for about 15-16 minutes, stirring often and adding more hot broth if it dries out too much. Meanwhile, cut the brie cheese into cubes or strips .
After the cooking time, turn off the heat and mix with the brie and grated Grana Padano PDO . Stir for about a minute to blend the cheeses well and serve your risotto with cauliflower, sausage, and brie hot !
The risotto with cauliflower, sausage, and brie can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container. Before serving it, you can reheat it in a saucepan, adding a few tablespoons of vegetable broth.
If you like strong flavors, try replacing the brie with the same amount of taleggio or gorgonzola!

