name:
Grilled Pumpkin and Porcini
ingredients:
Delica pumpkin: 2 ¼cups(550 g)
Porcini mushrooms: 10.6oz(300 g)- (250 g cleaned)
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Thyme: 4sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fontina cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(125 g)
Nutmeg: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the grilled pumpkin and porcini, start by cleaning the pumpkin (you will need to get 400 g of pulp). Remove the skin and then the seeds and internal filaments , then cut into slices and finally into cubes about 3/4 inch (2 cm) . Proceed to How to Clean Porcini Mushrooms first with a damp cloth
and then with a brush to scrape off the soil . Peel the root part superficially and finally slice and cut into cubes of the same thickness as the pumpkin. As you go, collect the cubes in a bowl .
Then remove the rosemary needles from the sprigs and chop finely , add them to the bowl along with the thyme leaves separated, also, from the stems . Season with salt and pepper, then dress with the oil
and mix well . Heat a grill and then throw in the cubes, maybe in two or three rounds, to ensure even cooking and to be able to check that the cubes do not burn. It will take a couple of minutes per side, so flip halfway through cooking and then set aside . Finally, prepare the fondue by removing the rind from the cheese
and cutting the fontina into cubes . In a small pot, pour the cream and the fontina ,
then grate some nutmeg and turn on the burner. Let it melt over very low heat, stirring well . Your grilled pumpkin and porcini is ready, all you have to do is serve it accompanied by some fondue and enjoy !
Once cooked, the grilled pumpkin and porcini should be consumed immediately so that the ingredients do not lose color and consistency. Therefore, any form of storage is not recommended.
If you prefer a slightly milder cheese, you can accompany the grilled pumpkin and porcini with an asiago, toma, latteria, or casera fondue!

