name:
Seitan Borscht
ingredients:
Precooked beets: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Carrots: 2
White onions: 1
Tomato paste: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Vegetable broth: 6 ¼cups(1.5 l)
Verza (savoy cabbage): ½
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Dill: 2tbsp(10 g)
Seitan: 7oz(200 g)- fresh
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Rye bread: 8slices
Garlic: 1clove
Sour cream: 4spoonfuls
Dill: - a few sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the seitan borscht, make the Vegetable broth . Then peel and grate the carrot and beetroot using a coarse grater. Then peel and chop the onion .
Move to the stove and pour into a saucepan, turn on the burner and heat the oil with the onions , stirring occasionally. After browning over medium heat, add the grated carrot and beetroot . After another minute, add the tomato paste .
Meanwhile, mash the canned tomatoes with a fork and add them to the pot . Season with salt and pepper, stir, and let cook over low heat for about 25 minutes .
In the meantime, take care of the cabbage. After removing the outer leaves, cut the head in half and cut out the core . Then slice it and move on to the potato. After washing and drying it, peel it .
And cut it into cubes about 1 cm (0.4 inches) in size . Move to the stove. In a pot where you have heated the vegetable broth, add the potatoes and let them boil for 15 minutes. After the time has passed, add the cabbage and continue cooking for another 5 minutes .
Meanwhile, take care of the bread: after slicing it, place the slices on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and drizzle with a little oil . Then toast the slices in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C) for about 8 minutes. As soon as they are ready, take them out of the oven and, while still hot, rub them with a peeled clove of garlic . By now, the carrot and beetroot with the tomato will be ready, so add them to the pot with the potatoes and cabbage .
Stir and let the flavors meld for another ten minutes . You have just enough time to slice the seitan into strips . Then put a pan on the heat with a drizzle of oil and heat. Afterward, add the seitan and sear over high heat for 5 minutes, stirring often; season with salt and pepper .
Off the heat, flavor the soup with dill . Stir and plate, adding the seitan to each serving dish . Then garnish your seitan borscht with two slices of bread and a dollop of sour cream .
Like any soup, seitan borscht is even better the next day and keeps in the fridge covered for 2 days. The croutons are best freshly made. Seitan tends to dry out, so it's better to prepare it just before consumption or, at most, keep it immersed in the sauce, although it will lose its firmness. If you prefer, you can freeze it.
There are countless variations of this soup depending on the country or even various families who keep the recipe by varying the vegetables and types of meat. In our version, there is no meat, so seitan borscht is a perfect dish even for those who do not consume it. To preserve the characteristic purplish color of the precooked beetroot, many add vinegar or lemon juice and even the same pickling liquid to the sauté. For those who intend to boil the beet, they can then use the boiling water as broth: it will have a really unique color! The garlic bread we proposed is inspired by the pampushka , a typical garlic bun that accompanies the soup.

