name:
Fregola with scampi and prawns
ingredients:
Fregola pasta: 9oz(250 g)
Shrimps: 0.9lb(400 g)
Scampi: 0.7lb(300 g)
Fish fumet: 2.1cups(500 g)
Canned tomatoes: ¾cup(200 g)
Fresh chili pepper: ½
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare fregola with scampi and prawns, start with the How to clean shrimp of the latter. After detaching the heads from the tails (1-2), remove the black thread from the back using a knife or a toothpick, and set aside. With the scraps, prepare the stock, which you will use to moisten the fregola. Clean the tip of the chili pepper and slice it thinly .
Clean the garlic and move to the stove. Place a saucepan on the heat, adding oil along with the garlic and chili pepper . Sauté everything for a few minutes and then add the tomato pulp . Let it flavor for 5 minutes, then discard the garlic .
It's time to add the fregola, pour it into the pan , stir for a few moments , and then moisten with the hot stock, adding it a little at a time just like you would with risotto .
After 10 minutes of cooking, add the prawns , and after 5 minutes the scampi . Finish cooking, adjusting the salt if necessary, and then turn off the heat. Then garnish with a few basil leaves torn by hand ,
fragrance with a bit of freshly grated lemon zest , and the recipe is ready . All that's left is to plate the fregola with scampi and prawns and enjoy it hot .
If you prefer, you can store fregola with scampi and prawns for a couple of days at most; keep it in the refrigerator in a covered glass container. If needed, it can also be frozen, though keep in mind that the texture will be different.
The fregola with scampi and prawns can only be enhanced by the presence of other ingredients such as seafood, which is better if you open them separately, or baby octopus, squid, and any other mollusk you deem suitable to make the dish special!

