name:
Pepper Jam
ingredients:
Red peppers: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Dried chili pepper: 2
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 33
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare pepper jam, first wash the peppers, then cut off the top with the stem and remove the seeds inside . Cut the peppers in half lengthwise ,
remove the internal filaments and cut them in half again , then chop them into medium-sized pieces . Proceed in this way with the other peppers and set them aside.
Peel the garlic cloves and slice them very thinly . In a large pot, add the peppers , the garlic ,
the chili pepper pieces, the sugar , and the salt .
Mix everything and cook over medium heat, stirring occasionally if needed. Use a kitchen thermometer and let it cook until you reach a temperature of 226°F. At this point, turn off the heat
and transfer the jam into a food mill placed over a bowl. Turn the handle until the peppers are reduced to a puree . If the jam is still hot, you can proceed; otherwise, you will need to heat it again in the microwave or pan. Then pour the boiling jam into one or more sterilized glass jars .
Close tightly by screwing on the lid (19-20) and let cool completely for at least one night. Before consuming, ensure that a vacuum seal has been formed by checking that the lid does not click when pressed in the center. For these and other instructions, we always refer to the Ministry of Health's information on homemade preserves.
Store in a cool, dry place and consume within a month. If opened, keep it in the fridge and consume within 3 days.
Add fragrance to your jam by adding basil and use yellow peppers for a touch of color. If you don't like garlic, replace it with Tropea red onion!
The homemade preparation of preserves and jams can pose health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of the food, which, on the contrary, industrial processes can ensure to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to strictly follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it should always be kept in mind that the same level of food safety as that of professionally produced preserves and jams cannot be achieved. For proper preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the guidelines from the Ministry of Health .

