name:
Cestini all'ortolana
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- rectangular
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.8cup(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1spoonful
Eggplant: 1
Zucchini: 2
Red peppers: 1
Yellow peppers: 1
White onions: ½
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Basil: 12leaves
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the vegetable baskets, first get a cupcake mold and turn it upside down , brush the outer bottom and edge with corn oil . Take the puff pastry and use a round cutter of 4 inches to cut out 12 discs ,
prick the entire surface with the tines of a fork . Now place the discs on the molds and press them well to adhere , place the mold on a baking tray and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 12 minutes; they should be golden on the surface. Once ready, take them out of the oven and let them cool.
Meanwhile, prepare the filling: wash, dry the vegetables, and cut them into cubes about 1/2 inch. Start with the eggplant: trim it and then cut it first into slices, then into strips, and finally into cubes . Do the same for the zucchini and for the red and yellow peppers .
Peel and finely chop the onion . Pour the oil into a pan , add the chopped onions and let them lightly brown.
Then add the eggplant cubes , then the peppers , and finally the zucchini .
Salt and pepper , cook over high heat for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally, then turn off the heat and let cool . Prepare the ricotta cream: in a bowl, place the well-drained ricotta and soften it by working with a spoon .
Then add the Parmesan and a grind of pepper . Mix until you get a cream . Retrieve the cooled baskets and gently remove them from the mold ;
fill them with ricotta and vegetables , scent with basil leaves , and serve your vegetable baskets.
It is recommended to consume the vegetable baskets immediately. Freezing is not recommended. You can prepare the bases the day before and assemble the vegetable baskets at the last moment, if you prepare the bases in advance, the puff pastry baskets should be stored well closed in a food bag. Once cooled, the cooked vegetables can be stored in the fridge.
Unleash your imagination and have fun experimenting with other appetizing fillings using seasonal vegetables: pumpkin, artichokes, cardoons, asparagus, and other vegetables of your choice!

