name:
Trombetta Squash and Squid Cream
ingredients:
Crookneck squash: 3 ¾cups(500 g)
Fresh scallion: 2.1oz(60 g)
Water: 1.9cups(450 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Calamari (squid): 1.1lbs(500 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Lemon peel: 1
Black pepper: to taste
Oregano: to taste- fresh

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the trombetta squash and squid cream, first clean the spring onion and slice it into rings . Then wash the trombetta squashes and slice them into rings as well . At this point, pour a drizzle of oil into a saucepan, add the spring onion
and let it soften for a few minutes over medium heat . Add the squashes , mix everything ,
add the water , season with salt , cover with a lid , and let it cook gently for 20 minutes .
In the meantime, clean the squid. Pull the head away from the mantle and remove the cartilage quill from it . Thoroughly wash the mantle under water and remove the insides with your hands .
Then remove the outer skin by making a small incision with a knife and pulling it away with the knife tip . Take the tentacles you set aside and separate them from the head by cutting just below the eyes with a small knife . Remove the central beak by pushing it with your hands and divide the tentacles in half. Then cut the mantle into rings about 3/4 inch thick .
Pour a drizzle of oil into a saucepan, add the peeled garlic clove and let it brown. Pour in the squid and increase the heat , add salt
and cook for 4-5 minutes. Remove the garlic and set aside . At this point, the squashes will be cooked ,
blend them with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth cream . Then transfer some of it onto a plate ,
place the squid on top , garnish with lemon zest , decorate with a small oregano leaf and serve.
The trombetta squash and squid cream can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. The cream alone can also be frozen.
Instead of squid, you can use shrimp or monkfish cubes.
If you don't like fish, you can use smoked bacon or strips of sautéed prosciutto instead.

