name:
Meringue Plum Tart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Whole grain flour: 6 ½tbsp(50 g)
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- cold
Sugar: 6 ½tbsp(80 g)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Prunes: 1.1cups(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(100 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- at room temperature
Brown sugar: ¼cup(40 g)
Egg whites: 2.6oz(75 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Water: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + 1 hour of resting the pastry

instructions:
To prepare the meringue plum tart, first, make the pastry. Place the cubed butter, sugar , and salt in the bowl of a stand mixer. Mix everything with the paddle attachment ,
then add the egg and the seeds from half a vanilla pod . Continue mixing until well combined .
Next, add the whole wheat flour and all-purpose flour . Turn the machine back on and mix the dough until it is smooth .
Transfer it to a work surface, compact it , and wrap it in plastic wrap . Let it rest in the refrigerator for about an hour. In the meantime, wash the plums and cut them in half .
Then, discarding the pit, cut them into wedges (13-14). Set the plums aside and pour the milk and cream into a tall container .
Add the brown sugar , eggs , and the seeds from half a vanilla pod .
Add a pinch of salt and blend everything with an immersion blender for a couple of minutes , until you obtain a smooth mixture .
At this point, take the pastry and roll it out to a thickness of about 1/4 inch . Then, transfer it to a 9-inch springform pan, pressing gently to ensure it adheres to the edges .
Using a small knife, trim the excess dough to create a border of about 1 1/4 inches . Then, arrange the plum wedges in a circular pattern on the base and pour the milk, eggs, and cream mixture over them .
At this point , bake in a static oven at 355°F for about 60 minutes on the middle rack. Remove from the oven and let cool . Once cooled, you can prepare the Italian meringue. Pour water and sugar into a saucepan .
Heat the syrup until it reaches 250°F . When it is almost at temperature (237°F), pour the egg whites into the clean stand mixer bowl and beat them with the whisk at medium speed. When the syrup reaches the correct temperature, pour it in a thin stream over the beaten egg whites
and continue beating until the meringue cools down (34-35). At this point, remove the cake from the pan
and place the meringue on top using a spoon . Then, with the back of the spoon, spread it to achieve the classic meringue effect . Transfer to a serving plate and serve the tart .
The meringue plum tart can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
The pastry can be frozen.
It is recommended to make the rest of the preparation fresh.
Once the cake is covered with meringue, you can place it under the grill for a few minutes until the peaks are golden. Alternatively, you can use a blowtorch.

