name:
Tomato Jelly
ingredients:
Cluster tomatoes: 1.4lbs(650 g)- ripe
Gelatin in sheets: 0.625oz(18 g)
Tomato paste: 1tsp(5 g)
Tabasco®: 5drops
Fine salt: to taste
Celery: 0.7oz(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the tomato jelly, start by soaking the gelatin in fresh water . Meanwhile, move on to the tomatoes: after detaching them from the stems, wash and dry them. Then score a cross on the bottom and immerse them in boiling water for 60 seconds .
After the time has passed, drain them directly into a bowl with ice water and let them sit for a couple of minutes . Peel the tomatoes using a small knife , cut them in half, and then remove the stem .
Cut them into large pieces and put them in the blender . Blend at not too high a speed until you get a puree. Pour it into a saucepan where you have placed a sieve and strain everything well .
Discard the leftover pulp and seeds and add the smooth puree, tomato paste , drops of Tabasco, a pinch of salt, and turn on the stove to heat everything up .
Mix well to dissolve the paste, and as soon as the mixture is warm, turn off the heat; drain the gelatin by squeezing it gently and add it to the tomato . Thoroughly combine with a spatula so it dissolves completely and fill 4 glasses with a capacity of 5 oz each using a funnel for more precision .
Transfer onto a tray, making it easier to carry, and place in the refrigerator for at least 2-3 hours . About an hour before serving, prepare the celery salad. Wash the stalk well, remove the tips , and then, using a vegetable peeler, make thin strips .
Place them in ice water: they will become crisp and slightly curled . After the time has passed, drain the celery , season with oil, salt, and pepper
and mix . Retrieve the glasses from the fridge, garnish with the salad , and your tomato jelly is ready to serve .
Tomato jelly can be stored in the refrigerator for a few days; if you prefer, you can also freeze it.
Instead of Tabasco, you can use fresh chili or paprika powder to flavor your tomato jelly, or omit if it's not to your liking.

