name:
Vegetarian kebab
ingredients:
Pocket bread: 4
Bell peppers: 2 ¼cups(340 g)- red, yellow, and green
Eggplant: 5.3oz(150 g)
Zucchini: 1.6cups(180 g)
Carrots: 3.2oz(90 g)
Garlic: 3cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Potatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste- for frying
Oregano: 2spoonfuls- dry
Hot Paprika: 2tsp
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp
Cumin: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1spoonful
Black pepper: to taste
Greek yogurt: ¼cup(60 g)
Sour cream: ¼cup(60 g)
Tomato paste: 1tsp
Sweet Paprika: to taste
Feta cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 1
Fresh scallion: 1
Lettuce: to taste
Lime juice: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the vegetarian kebab, first prepare the seasoning mix by mixing all the ingredients in a small bowl: cumin, sweet paprika, dried oregano , hot paprika , salt , and pepper.
Now you can move on to preparing the vegetables: clean the peppers of seeds and internal filaments, cut them into strips and then into small squares . Trim the zucchini and cut them into thin slices ,
then do the same with the carrots . Finally, divide the eggplant into quarters lengthwise and slice them to obtain triangles about 1/4 inch thick .
Heat the olive oil in a non-stick pan and briefly sauté 3 cloves of garlic in their skins, then add the eggplants , carrots , peppers
and zucchini , season with most of the seasoning mix , and cook over a high flame for about 10 minutes until the vegetables are soft and golden, then remove the garlic cloves .
While the vegetables are cooking, you can work on the potatoes: after washing and peeling them, cut them in half and then into wedges a few millimeters thick . Rinse the potatoes under running water to eliminate some of the starch and dry them thoroughly.
Meanwhile, heat the seed oil in a small pot and when it reaches a temperature of 320°F-340°F, immerse the potatoes with a slotted spoon and fry them for about 8 minutes until they are beautifully golden ; do not fry too many potatoes at once to avoid lowering the oil temperature. Drain the fried potatoes on absorbent paper and season them with the remaining seasoning mix , adding more salt if necessary.
To prepare the sauce, pour the Greek yogurt into a small bowl, add the sour cream , tomato paste, sweet paprika , salt, and mix well .
Finally, prepare the raw vegetables: cut the lettuce into strips , then slice the green part of the spring onion into thin rings and dice the tomatoes . You can dry the tomatoes with absorbent paper to prevent them from being too watery.
At this point, you are ready to assemble the sandwich: cut the pita bread into pockets and spread the bottom half with plenty of sauce , then fill with the cooked vegetables ,
the French fries , tomatoes , lettuce ,
crumbled feta , and spring onion . Add a splash of lime (or lemon) juice and your vegetarian kebab is ready to be bitten into !
We recommend consuming the vegetarian kebab as soon as it's ready. If you want to prepare some components in advance, you can store the vegetables in the fridge for a couple of days and the sauce for up to one day, while the seasoning mix can be stored in a jar and used for other appetizing recipes! We recommend preparing the French fries on the spot; alternatively, you can cook them in a pan along with the rest of the vegetables.
You can customize the seasoning mix and accompanying sauce by adding garlic powder, dried chili, or aromatic herbs to your taste... if you like fresh cilantro, we assure you it will go beautifully!

