name:
Pasta with zucchini, mussels, and pecorino
ingredients:
Zucchini: 3
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- to clean
Pecorino cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Mezze Maniche Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pasta with zucchini, mussels, and pecorino, first start by cleaning the mussels: rinse the mussels under running water , discard any that are open or with broken shells, remove the byssus , or the beard found on each mussel, by pulling it off with your fingers, scrub the shells of the mussels with a steel wool pad to remove impurities and rinse them again under running water.
Pour a drizzle of oil into a pan with a peeled garlic clove , as soon as the garlic is slightly golden, add the mussels , cover with a lid, and let them open over high heat (it will take about 5 minutes). Once all the mussels have opened, turn off the heat and let them cool down .
Shell the mussels and place them in a bowl , leaving a small portion with the shell for the final decoration of the dish, also save the filtered cooking water .
Meanwhile, place a pot with plenty of slightly salted water on the stove to cook the pasta. Prepare the sauce: wash and trim the zucchini, then cut them first into sticks and then into cubes of about half an inch . Pour the oil into a pan, add the peeled garlic clove , and let it become golden, add the zucchini ,
and season with a grind of pepper , there is no need to salt, the pecorino and mussels will provide the right saltiness), cook over high heat for about 5 minutes, stirring frequently, the zucchini should turn golden. Meanwhile, cook the pasta al dente Once the zucchini are well browned, remove the garlic, add the mussels
and their filtered cooking water through a sieve , sauté for a couple of minutes and season with ¾ of the pecorino . Drain the cooked pasta into the pan ,
stir to combine the ingredients . The pasta with zucchini, mussels, and pecorino is ready , serve it hot with more pecorino and some mussels with shells that you set aside .
It is recommended to consume the pasta with zucchini, mussels, and pecorino immediately.
To give the dish a creamy note, try blending some of the zucchini!

