name:
Cherry Tomato Preserve
ingredients:
Yellow cherry tomatoes: 1lb(450 g)- (or other colors)
Water: 2cups(500 g)
Fine salt: 3tsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the cherry tomato preserve, you must sanitize the jars as indicated in the box at the bottom of the recipe, following the Ministry of Health guidelines . We recommend using sanitized jars and new lids. Then wash the cherry tomatoes carefully . If necessary, rub them to remove any soil. Then drain them well and divide them into two 12 oz jars . Pour the water into a saucepan ,
add the salt and bring to a boil. You will obtain a 3% brine that you will need to pour into the jars to cover the cherry tomatoes . Place the appropriate press on top of the cherry tomatoes
and close with the appropriate lids, which must be new . Immerse the jars in water, they should be almost completely covered and bring to a boil. Cook for a total of 45 minutes over medium heat . Then turn off and let the jars cool in the pot, then drain them and leave them for a moment at room temperature before storing your cherry tomatoes in the pantry!
The cherry tomato preserve can be stored in the pantry, away from heat sources, for 90 days. Once opened, keep them in the refrigerator and consume them within a few days.
This preserve will allow you to have ready-to-use cherry tomatoes available to enjoy with toasted bread or to prepare a simple sauce or other condiments featuring cherry tomatoes paired with, for example, anchovies, stracchino, tuna, bacon...
The homemade preparation of preserves and jams can present health risks. In a domestic environment, it's not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of foods, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures can assure to prevent dangerous contamination. It's therefore important to meticulously follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but one must always keep in mind that the same food safety as professional preserves and jams can never be achieved. For correct preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the Ministry of Health guidelines .

