name:
Peach and Lavender Jam
ingredients:
Yellow peaches: 2.9lbs(1.3 kg)- to be cleaned
Lavender: 1tsp- dried flowers
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Low
Note +1 hour of fruit maceration

instructions:
To make peach and lavender jam, make sure to use intact jars, new lids, and proceed with sanitization as indicated in the box at the end of the recipe. Then peel the peaches and cut them into pieces, removing the central pit . Place the chopped peaches in a steel pot .
Pour in the sugar and dried lavender flowers , stirring with a wooden spoon
to flavor the peaches well . At this point, you will need to let the fruit macerate by covering the pot with plastic wrap and placing it in the refrigerator for an hour. After this time, take the peaches, which will have released their liquid during maceration , and place them on the stove to cook for about 40 minutes over medium heat, stirring often
until the mixture reaches the specified temperature of 226°F; use a food thermometer to monitor the temperature. As soon as the jam is ready , pour it hot into the newly sanitized jars , filling them up to 1-2 cm from the rim .
Proceed by tightly screwing the jars with new lids , then turn them upside down and let the jam cool completely . Before consumption , ensure that the lids do not make the typical "click-clack" sound when pressed at the center, indicating that the vacuum seal has not been achieved correctly. For these and other guidelines, we refer to the information provided by the Ministry of Health regarding homemade preserves.
The peach and lavender jam can be stored in the pantry for up to 5 months. Before consuming, we recommend always checking that the vacuum seal has been maintained. Homemade jams containing a sugar percentage lower than the total fruit weight have shorter shelf lives compared to those with an equal amount of sugar and fruit, which can last up to a year. Once the jar is opened, store the jam in the refrigerator and consume it within 3 weeks.
You can substitute granulated sugar with brown sugar; the jam will be darker and more aromatic.
Homemade preparation of preserves and jams can pose health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the necessary conditions and measures to ensure the safety and suitability of food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures can assure to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to strictly follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it should always be remembered that the same food safety as professionally produced preserves and jams can never be achieved. For correct preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

