name:
Beef steak with two curries
ingredients:
Beef: 1.8lbs(800 g)- roast beef cut
Curry paste: 2spoonfuls- red
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Coconut milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Curry paste: 2spoonfuls- yellow
Lemongrass: 2
Fresh chili pepper: 1- long red
Leeks: 0.9cup(80 g)
Baby carrots: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Wildflower honey: 1spoonful
Lettuce: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the beef steak with two curries, start with the accompanying carrots. Wash them and cut them in half lengthwise . Then arrange them on a baking sheet and season with salt, oil , black pepper .
and honey . Mix everything to flavor and bake in a preheated fan oven at 465°F for about 10 minutes on the lowest rack. Then remove them and keep them warm.
Move on to the sauce. Clean and cut the lemongrass , chili , and leek into pieces.
In a saucepan, pour the coconut milk , add chili, lemongrass, and leek . Turn on the heat, add the yellow curry paste , mix everything
and let it cook over low heat for about 7 minutes . Meanwhile, take the piece of meat and cut it into 4 slices of 7 oz each, about 3/4 inch thick . Then pour the red curry paste, oil , and salt into a wide, shallow dish.
Mix with a spoon until the paste dissolves. Then place the slices of meat inside and turn them over to season both sides .
Heat a grill well, and as soon as it's hot, lay the slices of meat on top . Wait a couple of minutes and turn them . Cook them for another couple of minutes and in the meantime, heat and strain the coconut milk sauce .
As soon as the meat is grilled on the other side , transfer it to a cutting board and cut it into strips . Arrange the carrots on a lettuce leaf, sprinkle the meat with chopped parsley, and serve with the coconut milk sauce .
It is recommended to consume the beef steak with two curries immediately.
Garnish your steak with toasted almonds or cashews. Serve with some slices of Chapati , the typical Indian bread!

