name:
Peaches in Puff Pastry
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1lb(460 g)- (2 rolls)
Nectarines: 1.1lbs(480 g)- (about 3)
Dark chocolate: 2.1oz(60 g)
Brown sugar: 1 ¼tbsp(15 g)
Eggs: 1
Fiordilatte gelato: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the peaches in puff pastry, first wash and thoroughly dry the peaches. Then cut them in half and remove the pit with a knife , being careful to keep the peaches intact .
Separately, roughly chop the dark chocolate . Take a roll of puff pastry and spread it out on parchment paper with a diameter of about 12.6 inches . Take half a peach and fill the central cavity with the dark chocolate chunks .
Place the peaches on the pastry in a circular pattern with the cut side facing down . Brush the pastry with the beaten egg . Now take the other puff pastry sheet, unroll it on the work surface, and lightly flour
and roll it out with a rolling pin so that it is larger , it should reach about 15.75 inches in diameter. Roll the pastry around the rolling pin and place it over the peaches .
With your hands, wrap the pastry around the peaches, applying gentle pressure to adhere the pastry and eliminate air pockets that might form between the two sheets of pastry . Use a fluted pastry cutter to cut around the peaches , then remove the excess pastry .
With these quantities, you will obtain 6 peaches , transfer them to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper using a pastry scraper . At this point, brush the surface with the beaten egg
and sprinkle with brown sugar . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 20 minutes, until golden. Once baked, remove the peaches in puff pastry from the oven , let them cool slightly, and then serve them accompanied by a scoop of ice cream !
Peaches in puff pastry can be stored for 2-3 days covered with a glass dome at room temperature, although they will not be as crispy as when freshly baked. In this case, we recommend reheating them before serving.
You can also fill the peaches in puff pastry with a fairly dense custard and crushed amaretti, serving them with freshly whipped cream. If you have little time, you can prepare them the day before and store them in the fridge until it's time to bake.

