name:
Pesto Braid
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 2cups(250 g)
Water: 1cup(230 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Potatoes: 4oz(110 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(4 g)
Basil: 2 ½cups(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Pine nuts: 1.1oz(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note more than 13 hours of rising

instructions:
To prepare the pesto braid, first boil the potatoes for about 25-30 minutes; the timing may vary depending on the size of the potatoes. To best gauge, test the cooking by piercing the potatoes with the prongs of a fork. Once cooked, drain them and pass them through a potato masher, collecting the puree in a bowl, you should obtain 100 grams . Then add the all-purpose flour and re-milled durum wheat semolina .
Add the crumbled fresh yeast and the water . Mix everything with a spatula
and also add the oil and the salt . Then knead with your hands until all the ingredients are compacted .
Then transfer the dough onto a surface and knead it for about 6 minutes , using a sprinkle of flour and half a teaspoon of oil if necessary. Then transfer it to a bowl , cover with plastic wrap, and place the dough in the refrigerator to mature for about 12 hours. After this time, take it out of the fridge and let it acclimate for 30 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the pesto. Pour the basil and the oil into a bowl with high sides , add the pine nuts , and blend everything with an immersion blender .
Then add the Parmesan , the salt , and blend again until you get a creamy sauce .
Then transfer the dough onto a lightly floured work surface and divide it into 6 pieces of 135 g each . Take one and, pressing it slightly between the palm of your hand and the work surface, form a ball with a rotary motion .
Repeat this operation for all portions of dough and let them rest for about 30 minutes, covering them with a cloth . Then, using a rolling pin, roll out each portion of dough to obtain rectangles approximately 6 inches long and 12 inches wide (23-24). The rectangles should be a bit longer than the mold you will use because during the braiding phase they will shrink slightly. Cover them with the cloth and wait a few more minutes.
Spread about 1 oz of pesto on the first rectangle, leaving about 0.8 inches from the edge . Then place another rectangle on top and press the edges with your fingers to join them .
Spread another 1 oz of pesto and continue as just done by placing the pasta rectangles on top and alternating the pesto layers. Once the ingredients are finished
turn it towards you and using a sharp knife, cut the rectangle into 3 strands, keeping the top part together . Then braid the strands
all the way to the end and seal the final part (34-35). Then transfer to a lightly greased loaf pan measuring 4.3x11 inches
and cover with a cloth . Let it rise again for 30 minutes, then brush the top of the braid with a bit of oil (38-39).
Bake in a static preheated oven at 356°F for 40 minutes, then take it out and let it warm slightly before removing it from the mold . Then transfer it onto a wire rack and let it cool completely before serving your pesto braid !
The pesto braid can be stored once cooked, under a glass dome for 2 days. Alternatively, it can be frozen, always after cooking.
If you realize that even after 30 minutes you can't roll out the dough balls, let them rest a bit longer. For a richer braid, add cubes of scamorza cheese, black pepper, or sun-dried tomatoes to the dough!

