name:
Mini pavlovas with berries
ingredients:
Egg whites: 0.4cup(100 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Raspberries: 1cup(120 g)
Powdered sugar: ¼cup(30 g)
Berries: to taste- (raspberries, blackberries, blueberries...)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + 1 hour of resting time

instructions:
To prepare mini pavlovas with berries, start by preparing the Swiss meringue. You'll need to proceed with a bain-marie cooking method, so place some water in a saucepan and heat it up ; then place a bowl on top, making sure the water doesn't touch the bottom. Pour in the egg whites and caster sugar , then work it all with electric whiskers
and whip the mixture until it reaches a temperature of about 140°F (4-5). Then remove the bowl from the heat and continue whipping until it's lukewarm .
Then transfer the Swiss meringue into a piping bag with a smooth nozzle of 0.4 inches . Then, on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, make 3 rounds to create meringue nests (8-9). Bake in a preheated static oven at 212°F for 1 hour in the central rack.
Then take them out and let them cool . Meanwhile, prepare the raspberry puree by pouring them into a tall container and blend everything with an immersion blender
until you get a cream . Then pour cold cream and powdered sugar into a bowl . Whip it with electric whiskers
and only when it's very frothy, add 2 tablespoons of raspberry puree , keeping aside the remaining for the final decoration. Work again with the whiskers until fully incorporated .
Then transfer into a piping bag without a nozzle and use it to fill the now cool meringue nests (20-21). Let rest in the refrigerator for one hour.
Then decorate the mini pavlovas with berries: blueberries , blackberries, strawberries , and a tablespoon of raspberry puree .
The mini pavlovas can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days. Freezing is not recommended, as meringue fears humidity.
For a more indulgent dessert, you can coat the inside of the meringue, once baked, with melted chocolate, letting it crystallize in the refrigerator before filling the meringues.

