name:
Stuffed tomatoes with panzanella
ingredients:
Cluster tomatoes: 6- large
Whole grain bread: 2.8oz(80 g)
Baby Zucchini (summer squash): 2.8oz(80 g)
Red onions: 1
Celery: 1- rib
Carrots: 1
Basil: 10leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the stuffed tomatoes with panzanella, start by cleaning them. After washing and drying them, remove the cap (but don't throw it away) , then collect the pulp in a bowl using a melon baller or a teaspoon, being careful not to puncture the tomato shell . As you proceed, gather the pulp in a sieve placed over a bowl and then place the cap and tomato upside down on a towel .
Once you have collected all the pulp, sieve it by pressing vigorously to obtain the juice . Weigh 2.5 oz of it and transfer it to a small pitcher, then season with salt, pepper, and oil . Mix well with a fork and set your "pomodorette" aside .
After cleaning and trimming the carrot and celery, cut them into tiny cubes (11-12), finally peel the shallot and do the same .
Wash and dry the zucchini, trim them, and also cut them into very thin slices . It's time to move to the stove. Put a pan on the fire with a drizzle of oil and add the brunoise of celery, carrot, and shallot . Let them sauté over medium heat for a couple of minutes. Then add the zucchini ,
immediately season with salt and pepper and let them cook, turning them very few times, so that they brown well . Transfer to a bowl together with the hand-torn basil , mix and set aside. Move on to the bread. Slice it
and cut it into cubes about 1/2 inch . Drizzle the same pan where you cooked the vegetables with some oil and now add the bread . Toast it for a few minutes over high heat, then add it to the salad .
Mix everything well and transfer to the tomatoes placed on a serving plate . Garnish with a pinch of pepper and basil leaves, and add the pomodorette which will be poured over the stuffed tomatoes with panzanella only before serving .
It is not recommended to store the stuffed tomatoes with panzanella once ready, as the texture of the vegetables and tomatoes may become mushy. At most, you can sauté the vegetables and bread no more than a couple of hours before preparation.
The water from ripe tomatoes is both tangy, sweet, and savory, so flavoring it as suggested will surely be enticing. However, you can further enhance it by adding a few drops of Tabasco and the juice from half a garlic clove without the germ: your stuffed tomatoes with panzanella will be truly amazing!

