name:
Valencian Paella
ingredients:
Bomba rice: 0.6cup(120 g)
Rabbit: 5.3oz(150 g)- in pieces (legs and saddle)
Chicken: 0.3lb(150 g)- in pieces (wings and thighs)
Rabbit liver: 1.8oz(50 g)- finely chopped
Cluster tomatoes: 2
Red peppers: ½
Flat beans: 1 ¼cup(140 g)
Artichokes: 2
Garlic: 1clove
Saffron threads: 6
Chorizo pepper pulp: 1tsp
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Sweet Paprika: ½spoonful
Extra virgin olive oil: 6tbsp(80 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Cluster tomatoes: 1
Leeks: 1
White onions: 1
Carrots: ½
Garlic: 2cloves
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Water: 15glasses(3.5 l)
Ground black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 2
Note + the preparation time for the broth (about 3 h)

instructions:
To prepare Valencian paella, start with the meat broth: clean the chicken and rabbit and place the scraps, along with the other ingredients, in the pot with water, add salt , and cook for about 3 hours, skimming as needed. Once ready, strain the broth through a sieve and set it aside. Cut the vegetables for the paella: trim and cut the flat beans into 3/4 inch diamonds . Clean the bell pepper by removing the stem , seeds, and internal membranes.
Then cut it into approximately 1/2 inch cubes . Clean the artichokes: remove the tougher outer leaves and trim the tips .
With a small knife, peel the outer part of the stem , then cut the artichoke in half and use a melon baller to remove the inner beard .
Now cut into wedges and place them in lemon water to prevent browning . Cut the tomatoes in half and grate them .
Collect the pulp in a bowl . Everything is ready for cooking: heat the prepared meat broth beforehand . In the special paella pan, heat some oil and add the pieces of meat .
Brown on both sides until golden , then add the finely chopped liver and add salt .
When the meat is well browned, add the vegetables: the flat beans, bell peppers , and artichokes drained from the acidulated water . Salt the vegetables and cook for 10 minutes over medium heat, carefully keeping the vegetables in the center and moving the meat to the edge of the pan where the heat is milder. After this time, season with chopped garlic .
Pour in the grated tomato , season with sweet paprika and pimiento .
At this point, distribute the rice in the pan and toast it for a couple of minutes, then pour in 2 1/2 cups (approximately) of meat broth and the saffron threads . Cook the rice for 5 minutes over high heat, then another 5 minutes over medium heat, and finally 8 minutes over low heat . To achieve the perfect crust, never stir the rice after adding the broth, and let it cook uncovered until done.
When there is one minute left until the end of cooking, drizzle with a little oil and increase the heat until the characteristic crust forms on the bottom . Turn off the heat and season with rosemary sprigs slightly smoked with a torch .
Cover the pan with aluminum foil and let it rest for 5 minutes. At this point, uncover and serve your Valencian paella immediately !
We recommend consuming the Valencian paella immediately.
If you want to make the dish even more traditional, you can enrich it with some typical ingredients used in the Valencian Community, like snails and local white beans (garrofó).
Bomba rice is perfect because it absorbs the broth well without overcooking. Alternatively, choose a round rice with low starch content.
Pimiento choricero is a typical pepper from the Basque Country; if you can't find it, you can substitute it with a mix of sweet and smoked paprika.

