name:
Zucchini Trombetta Quiche
ingredients:
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)- cold
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)- chilled
Fine salt: to taste
Crookneck squash: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Leeks: 1.8oz(50 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Eggs: 5.6oz(160 g)- (about 3 medium)
Marjoram: 3sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour of dough resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
To make the zucchini trombetta quiche, first prepare the shortcrust pastry: pour the flour into a mixer with steel blades, add the cold butter from the fridge and salt , and close with the lid, then add the cold water in a stream while the mixer is running .
When the ingredients have compacted , transfer the mixture onto the work surface and knead it briefly to form a dough. Wrap it in plastic wrap and put it in the refrigerator to rest for at least an hour.
In the meantime, you can work on the filling: wash the zucchini trombetta and cut them into fairly thin slices . Clean the leek and cut it into very thin slices .
Now heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the leek and sauté for about 2 minutes over medium-high heat, stirring often , then add the zucchini . Cook the zucchini for about 10 minutes, still over medium-high heat, still stirring often, then turn off and let cool .
In a bowl, combine the ricotta and cream , add the grated Grana Padano and the eggs and mix with a whisk.
Salt and pepper , then add the cooled zucchini and mix to incorporate them into the mixture. Finally, also add the marjoram leaves .
After the resting time of the shortcrust pastry, take the dough from the fridge and roll it out to a thickness of about 1/4 inch . Butter and flour a round mold with a diameter of 11 inches and lay the shortcrust pastry sheet inside . Prick the base with the tines of a fork ,
then pour in the ricotta and zucchini mixture and level it with a spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 400°F for about 55-60 minutes, positioning the mold on the lower rack. After the cooking time, take your zucchini trombetta quiche out of the oven and let it cool slightly before serving and enjoying it !
The zucchini trombetta quiche can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for up to 2 days. It can be frozen once cooked if you used fresh ingredients.
As an alternative to shortcrust pastry, you can make the base with Puff pastry . If you prefer, you can substitute the Grana Padano with another type of cheese, for example with cubed Emmentaler.

