name:
Egg burger
ingredients:
Hamburger muffins: 4
Egg yolks: 4
Egg whites: 5
Bacon: 8slices
Cheddar cheese: 8slices
Red onions: ½
Lettuce: - a few leaves
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the egg burger, first clean and slice the onion . In a hot pan, place the bacon slices and cook them over medium-low heat for 4-5 minutes. When they are nice and crispy and golden
remove them from the pan and let them dry on paper towels . Separate the egg whites from the yolks (the recipe requires 4 yolks and 5 egg whites; the leftover yolk can be used as indicated at the end of the recipe), being careful to keep each yolk separate in its own small bowl . Beat the 5 egg whites with an electric mixer
and as soon as they start to become firmer, add the salt . Continue until the egg whites are foamy . In the same pan where you cooked the bacon, place a pastry ring with a diameter of 3.5 inches .
Pour a tablespoon of the beaten egg white inside , then a yolk , and cover with another tablespoon of egg white .
Cook over medium-high heat for 2 minutes on one side and 2 on the other, using a spatula to turn the egg and being careful as the pastry ring will be very hot . Once ready, keep the egg warm. Cut the burger bun in half and toast it in the pan on the cut side ,
then turn it over, place the slices of cheddar , cover with the lid , and heat until the cheese has melted .
Now remove from the heat and fill the base of the bun with the crunchiest lettuce leaves , previously washed and dried, and a few rings of onion . Now remove the egg from the mold, using a sharp knife along the edge to facilitate the operation .
Also place the egg in the bun and the bacon . Close with the other half of the bun and serve your egg burger immediately !
The egg burger is a dish to be consumed immediately.
You can use the leftover yolk to brush over savory pastries or sweet and savory croissants made with puff pastry, add it to a quiche filling, or simply beat it with sugar, adding a bit of liquor for a quick zabaglione.
To facilitate the egg extraction operation, you can oil the inside of the pastry ring. You can enrich the burger with a slice of oxheart tomato. If you don't like raw onion, you can season the burger with chopped chives.

