name:
Soft flatbreads
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(400 g)
Water: ½cup(130 g)- at room temperature
Whole milk: ½cup(120 g)- at room temperature
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.4oz(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6tbsp(80 g)
Sugar: 1spoonful
Fine salt: 1 ¼tsp(7 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 13 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + 14 hours of leavening

instructions:
To make the soft flatbreads, pour the flour into the bowl of a stand mixer equipped with a paddle , add the crumbled yeast and a little water .
Start the machine and gradually pour in water and milk , alternating them. Once the flour has absorbed the liquids, replace the paddle with the hook and continue kneading, also adding the sugar ,
the salt and the olive oil in a stream . Knead until the mixture is combined and pulls away from the sides .
Transfer the dough onto a work surface , let it rest under a bowl for 10 minutes . Then form a smooth dough ball with your hands, transfer it to a large bowl ,
cover with a cloth and let it rise for 3 hours at room temperature . After 3 hours , cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rise in the refrigerator for 10 hours.
At this point, retrieve the risen dough, let it come to room temperature for about half an hour . With the help of a dough scraper, divide the dough into 8 pieces of about 3 oz each (17-18).
Shape each piece into a round form and let them rest for 5 minutes. Pass each piece in flour and then roll it out with a rolling pin to obtain round flatbreads with a diameter of about 2.5 inches.
Brush the bottom of a baking sheet with oil , place the flatbreads here and drizzle a little oil on each and let the flatbreads rest for another hour. Then pierce the dough with your fingertips
And season with salt flakes . Bake the flatbreads in a preheated static oven at 428°F for 12-13 minutes on the middle rack. Once ready, the soft flatbreads will be beautifully golden on the surface, remove them from the oven , let them cool on a rack , and then enjoy them!
The flatbreads keep for a couple of days in a paper bag. You can freeze them after baking.
These soft flatbreads are good on their own but also lend themselves to being filled with enticing savory fillings: just cut them in half and fill them with cold cuts, fresh cheeses, and seasonal grilled vegetables. They will quickly transform from a snack to a delicious little meal!

