name:
Bell pepper and leek flan
ingredients:
Yellow peppers: 1
Red peppers: 1
Leeks: 1
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(280 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1oz(25 g)- (to be grated)
Eggs: 3- medium
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Whole milk: ½cup(130 g)
Provola cheese: 4.2oz(120 g)
Cornstarch: 1spoonful
Leeks: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the bell pepper and leek flan, first crack the eggs into a fairly large bowl, pour in the whole milk , and mix with a whisk for a few moments to blend, then season with grated Grana Padano PDO .
Add a pinch of salt and a sprinkle of pepper . Mix everything with a hand whisk and set aside. Take the leek, remove the green part. Cut it lengthwise and remove the tougher outer part. Slice the leek into fairly thin rings ; you will need 2 oz.
Now wash the yellow bell pepper and remove the stalk . Cut it in half and remove the white membranes and seeds . Slice the bell pepper into strips and then into fairly small cubes ; you will need 3 oz.
Do the same with the red bell pepper ; you will also need 3 oz of it. Heat a drizzle of oil in a non-stick pan, add the leek and the bell pepper cubes .
Salt and let stew for 10 minutes on high heat, stirring often; they should be tender . Butter and flour carefully 10 single-serving aluminum molds with a capacity of 4.2 oz .
Evenly distribute the bell peppers and leeks at the bottom of the molds. You will need about 2 tablespoons per serving . Pour the egg mixture inside until filling ¾ of the molds . Place the molds on an oven rack and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 25 minutes.
Once ready, remove them from the oven and let them cool for 10 minutes before removing them from the mold. Meanwhile, prepare the cheese sauce: dice the provolone , heat the milk in a saucepan .
and add the diced provolone . When the cheese begins to melt, add 1 tablespoon of cornstarch and mix with a hand whisk until you get a smooth and homogeneous sauce .
Place 2 tablespoons of cheese sauce on each serving plate and the bell pepper and leek flan on top . Decorate with a few leek rings and some thyme leaves .
Bell pepper and leek flans can be stored for up to 2 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
You can enrich your flans with some diced boiled potatoes. You can also add diced provolone before pouring the mixture, creating a melting heart. Certainly a pleasant surprise!

