name:
Croissant
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Manitoba flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Water: 1.1cups(250 g)- at room temperature
Fresh liquid cream: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- at room temperature
Fresh brewer's yeast: 2tsp(10 g)
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Fine salt: 2.1tsp(12 g)
Butter: 1 ⅓cup(300 g)- (soft but still plastic, of high quality)
Egg yolks: 2
Whole milk: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 22 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + rising times

instructions:
To prepare the croissants, start by placing all-purpose flour, Manitoba flour , crumbled fresh yeast , and water into a stand mixer with a dough hook. Start the mixer at low speed and as soon as the ingredients are combined, increase to medium speed. At this stage, the dough should be elastic and soft: it will take about 5 minutes.
Then stop the mixer, pour in the cream , salt, and sugar . Start the mixer again at initially low and then medium speed, working everything for about 8 minutes, until the edges of the mixing bowl are clean and the dough has come together. At the end, the dough will be soft, elastic, and silky .
Remove it with a dough scraper , shape it into a ball, then transfer it to a large bowl and cover with plastic wrap . You should let it rise in a draft-free room (or in a switched-off oven with the light on) for about 2 hours. Alternatively, you can put it in the fridge overnight: this will make the dough even more workable. Before placing it in the fridge, leave it covered at room temperature for about an hour.
Once the indicated time has passed, take the dough, sprinkle a little flour on the surface , turn it out onto a lightly floured work surface, and dust the part that was in contact with the bottom of the bowl . Proceed by rolling out the dough with a rolling pin, gently without applying too much pressure
until you create a rectangle of 18x10 inches . Take the butter block, which should be pliable (you can take it out of the fridge about ten minutes before using it in the recipe). Lightly dust the work surface with flour, also sprinkle the butter lightly , and roll it out with the rolling pin, turning it occasionally, to give it a squared shape of 10x10 inches with a thickness of about 1/5 inch.
Remove the excess flour and place the square of butter in the center of the rolled-out dough . Fold one of the two edges of the dough towards the center , then do the same for the other edge without overlapping too much .
Take a tray, line it with plastic wrap, then place the dough on it and cover it with plastic wrap. Place it in the fridge for 15 minutes, enough time for the dough to be rolled out again with the rolling pin. After these minutes, remove the plastic wrap, lightly dust the work surface and the dough, flip it over onto the work surface, lightly dust the other side of the dough, and roll it out with the rolling pin in the direction of the openings, lengthwise . Now you need to perform three folds in this way: bring one edge of the dough to a third of the rectangle
and then cover with the other edge . The first fold is done: you can wrap your dough again in plastic wrap and place it back in the fridge for 30 minutes. Then proceed in the same way by rolling out the dough always in the direction of the openings
and folding the edges as previously indicated ; once you've completed the second 3-fold, you can place the dough back in the fridge wrapped in plastic wrap for 30 minutes . After this time, you can proceed with the third and final fold with the same previous steps of rolling out
and folding the dough . This time, however, you should leave the dough in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for at least 2 hours. After this time, take the dough: lightly flour the work surface, lightly flour the dough, and proceed to roll it out always in the direction of the openings to a thickness of about 1/8 inch. You should obtain a rectangle of 16x24 inches ; while working to roll it out, lightly flour and flip it occasionally. Take a ruler, divide the rectangle in half , widthwise,
to obtain two rectangles of 8x24 inches . At this point, using a pastry cutting wheel, make incisions every 4 inches on one side of each rectangle . Then on the other side of the rectangle, mark a point every 2 inches , without cutting; this will be the tip of your croissants.
At this point, cut the dough to form your triangles . With these amounts, you'll obtain about 22-24 triangles. Start forming your croissants: take a triangle of dough, holding the base with one hand, stretch it slightly by pulling the tip gently and make a cut in the center of the base about 1 inch long .
Then roll the croissant onto itself, gently stretching towards the tip and then closing it into a crescent shape . You should achieve 3 complete turns, or 4 spirals. Gradually place the croissants on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, spacing them out . Let the croissants rise in an off oven with the light on or in a draft-free room for an hour and a half.
After this time, in a small bowl beat the egg yolks with the milk: brush your croissants with a very soft brush , this way after baking they will be golden and shiny. Bake in a preheated, convection oven at 392°F for about 25 minutes. Check them frequently during baking, without ever opening the oven door. Once baked , remove your croissants from the oven and enjoy them hot !
Since this recipe uses yeast, the croissants remain sufficiently fresh for up to 1 day in a paper bag or under a glass dome; before serving, you can warm them slightly in the oven. You can freeze the formed croissants raw before the final rise: you can then take them out of the freezer, let them thaw overnight in an off oven, and then brush them as indicated in the recipe. Then bake them as instructed. Alternatively, you can also freeze them after baking.
Fill your croissants with custard, chocolate or pistachio custard, or other flavors you prefer, even with jams or marmalades. Only for the latter two fillings is it possible to fill the croissants before baking; for creams, it is always preferable afterward.
For this recipe, it is essential to use good quality, unsalted butter with a delicate flavor. The butter used in the recipe should be pliable. Let the dough rest in the refrigerator overnight, this way it will be more elastic and easier to work with.
As an alternative to the ventilated mode, you can use the static oven at the same temperature: the baking times will be slightly longer. We invite you to always check without opening the oven.
Instead of cream, you can use the same amount of milk or water. Using water will result in a less silky dough and the color of your croissants will be less amber.
As an alternative to the all-purpose flour + Manitoba mix, which is used to obtain a more elastic dough, you can buy puff pastry flour available in well-stocked supermarkets, online, or in stores that sell pastry products. If you're looking for a way to replace butter, make these Butterless Croissants !
Legend has it that the croissant was invented in Vienna, on the occasion of the defeat of the Ottoman Empire in 1683. The Turkish army, to destroy the city's walls, had devised to place dynamite in underground tunnels at night. It was the bakers, already at work during the night hours, who noticed the movements and raised the alarm. After defeating the Turkish army, the same bakers were commissioned to create a pastry that would recall the event and celebrate the victory: the shape of the croissants would resemble the crescent symbol of the Ottoman Empire.
History, however, tells us that the kipferl , the croissant, was born many centuries earlier. While for the name "croissant" one must wait for the marriage at Versailles between Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette of Austria. The court pastry chefs modified the recipe by adding more butter and renamed it croissant , which would derive from crescent , indeed recalling the crescent moon.

