name:
Savory croissants
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1lb(460 g)- rectangular
Rolled Pancetta: 1.8oz(50 g)- sliced
Edam cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- sliced
Sesame seeds: 1spoonful
Smoked Salmon: 3.5oz(100 g)- sliced
Robiola cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Parsley: to taste
Basil: to taste
Black sesame seeds: 1spoonful
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: to taste
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the savory croissants, first prepare the robiola cream: finely chop the parsley and basil , place them in a small bowl with the robiola , and mix to combine .
Now you can work on the puff pastry: take one of the two rolls and place it with the long side of the rectangle facing you, then cut it in half with a knife . Brush one of the two obtained rectangles with a little water , then place it on top of the other to form a rectangle with double thickness : this way the croissants will be fluffier and crispier.
Cut 5 triangles from the obtained rectangle with a base of 3 inches : this way you will have two half triangles left that you can slightly overlap by brushing one of the sides with water, so as to obtain a sixth triangle of the same size as the others . Repeat the same operation with the second puff pastry roll: in total, you should obtain 12 triangles.
At this point, gently pull the pastry and fill the obtained triangles: place a couple of pieces of Edam at the base of the triangle , add a rolled slice of bacon and fold the base end over itself ,
then continue to roll the pastry to the other end , pulling with your hand to slightly lengthen the tip of the triangle. Proceed in the same way for the croissants with robiola cream and salmon , which will also be placed at the base of the triangle. Do not exaggerate with the amount of filling to avoid it spilling out during cooking.
As the croissants are ready, place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and brush them with the milk and egg yolk mixture that you previously whisked together . Decorate the croissants with sesame seeds to differentiate them: we used black sesame seeds for the salmon and robiola croissants and white sesame seeds for the Edam and bacon croissants. Bake in a preheated static oven at 385°F for about 25 minutes, until they are nicely golden . Let them cool slightly and serve your tasty savory croissants!
It is recommended to consume the savory croissants immediately to enjoy them at their best. Alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator for about 2 days and reheat them before serving. They can be frozen raw and baked after thawing in the refrigerator.
Keep the puff pastry in the refrigerator until ready to use; if you leave it at room temperature for too long, it will be more difficult to work with. Fill the savory croissants with whatever your imagination and taste buds suggest!
Serve savory croissants also on the occasion of the Christmas or New Year dinner!

