name:
Turkey breast with speck
ingredients:
Turkey breast: 2.6lbs(1.2 kg)
Speck: 5.3oz(150 g)- sliced
White wine: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Vegetable broth: 1cup(250 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 ml)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Type 00 flour: 3spoonfuls
Rosemary: to taste
Sage: to taste
Fine salt: ½tsp

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the turkey breast with speck, first lightly salt the meat and massage it . Lay half of the speck slices on a cutting board, overlapping them slightly , and then place the turkey breast on top .
Cover with the remaining speck slices, overlapping them and covering the meat evenly . Now proceed to How to tie a roast with kitchen twine. First, form a large loop and pass it laterally, then tighten it at the end . Now form a large loop and twist it twice before passing it under the piece of meat, tightening it, and creating a loop around the meat. Repeat this process 5 more times, moving a few inches each time and tightening well to keep the shape during cooking. Insert some rosemary sprigs between the kitchen twine .
Pour olive oil and butter into a large pan and heat them together. Place the stuffed turkey breast on top , along with some rosemary sprigs and sage leaves. Let it brown over medium heat for about 5 minutes, turn it over , and let it brown on the other side for another 5 minutes. Pour 7 oz of white wine into the pan
and after 5 minutes, add the vegetable broth . Cover with a lid and let the roast cook over medium heat for about 50 minutes .
Preheat the oven to 338°F. Transfer the roast to a baking dish and keep it warm in the oven for 10 minutes. Strain the cooking juices remaining in the pan and transfer them to a saucepan. Add the remaining 3.5 oz of white wine and the flour .
Mix well and let the sauce thicken over low heat , stirring with a whisk for 4-5 minutes. Gently remove the twine by cutting it into several pieces with scissors . Slice the turkey breast with speck and serve it with the accompanying sauce.
The roast can be stored in the fridge in a container for 2 days. It can be frozen sliced, with the sauce frozen separately in a container. You can prepare the roast by wrapping it in speck and tying it with kitchen twine the day before and store it in a container in the fridge for 24 hours before cooking.
Be careful not to overdo the salt, as speck is very flavorful.

