name:
Mini bavarois with bell pepper and robiola
ingredients:
Red peppers: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Whole milk: 120
Egg yolks: 2 ½tbsp(36 g)- (about 2 medium eggs)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Robiola cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
White pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 5 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the firming hours (at least 6)

instructions:
To prepare the mini bell pepper and robiola bavarois, start by working the cheese with a pinch of white pepper and mix with the spatula . Pour into a silicone mold filling 10 half spheres
and freeze . Meanwhile, cook the washed and dried red bell peppers. Arrange them on a baking tray with parchment paper and cook in the oven at 430°F for about 50 minutes, turning them occasionally. At the end of cooking, put them in a plastic bag and let them cool for 20 minutes .
Then peel them and clean out the seeds and filaments . Blend the peppers in a mixer (preferably not an immersion blender) to obtain a smooth puree .
Pour it into a container and soak the gelatin in fresh water . Move on to the English cream: in a bain-marie, pour 1/2 cup of milk and the egg yolks .
Turn on the flame to medium temperature and cook while continuously stirring. As soon as the temperature reaches between 180°F-185°F (measure it with a thermometer), the English cream will be ready. Remember, you can also verify it by using a spoon: if, when passing a finger over the spatula, the two sides remain separate, it is cooked . Stop the cooking by placing the bowl in a container with ice water and stir for another 3-4 minutes . Then add the bell pepper puree and mix .
Heat the remaining 1.5 tablespoons of milk, without bringing it to a boil, and add the gelatin , then turn off and mix well, ensuring there are no lumps; if there are any, heat again for a few more seconds . Add to the English cream with the bell peppers
and then adjust with salt, pepper, and extra virgin olive oil and mix . Fill only the bottom of 5 molds with a capacity of 1/2 cup and place in the freezer for 20 minutes .
After this time, take the half spheres and join them two by two with your hands to form 5 spheres , insert the obtained spheres into the molds , cover with the rest of the bell pepper cream, and place in the fridge for at least 5 hours .
After the time has passed, immerse the molds in warm water for no more than 1 second and unmold onto serving plates . Garnish with some basil leaves as you like, and your mini bell pepper and robiola bavarois are ready !
You can store your mini bell pepper and robiola bavarois for a few days by keeping them in the fridge. If you prefer, you can also freeze them. Always keep them cold, as they melt at room temperature.
If you prefer a brighter red color for your mini bell pepper and robiola bavarois, add a bit of tomato paste. Robiola has a delicately acidic taste, making it the ideal cheese to add as a core, but if you prefer, you can try with stracchino or mascarpone. Finally, have fun personalizing your bavarois by also preparing them with yellow and green peppers!

