name:
Ricotta flans
ingredients:
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1.1cups(280 g)
Potatoes: 3.5oz(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.9oz(25 g)- to grate
Almond flour: 2spoonfuls
Eggs: 1
Lemon peel: 1
Oregano: to taste- fresh
Fine salt: 1tsp
Black pepper: 1tsp
Red peppers: 3.5oz(100 g)
Potatoes: 1.8oz(50 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- for grating

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the ricotta flans, first peel and grate the potato, which you will use for both the flans and the sauce : you will need a total of 150 g (about 5.3 oz). Place the ricotta in a bowl, then add 100 g (about 3.5 oz) of grated potato , the egg ,
the grated Parmesan , almond flour , grated lemon zest ,
fresh oregano , salt and pepper . Mix to combine and set the mixture aside.
Generously butter 4 molds with a diameter of 3 inches and coat the inside with grated Parmesan , then fill them with the ricotta mixture almost to the top. Place the molds on a baking sheet and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 30 minutes, placing the baking sheet on the middle rack.
While the flans are baking, you can prepare the sauce: wash and clean the bell pepper, and cut it into strips . Heat the oil in a small saucepan, add the bell pepper and the remaining 50 g (about 1.8 oz) of grated potato ,
then add the water , salt, and cook on medium heat for 5 minutes. After this time, turn off the heat and transfer the mixture to a tall, narrow glass. Add the oil and blend with an immersion blender until smooth and homogeneous, then pepper and adjust the salt if necessary.
When the flans are cooked, remove them from the oven and let them cool slightly before unmolding . Finish the dish with a bit of bell pepper sauce and some fresh oregano leaves: your ricotta flans are ready to be served !
The ricotta flans can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
Make sure to butter the molds well to prevent the flans from getting damaged when removing them; to avoid risks, you can also add a tablespoon of breadcrumbs to the Parmesan used for coating. To further flavor the ricotta mixture, you can add chopped sun-dried tomatoes or caciocavallo cheese. As an alternative to the bell pepper sauce, you can make a pea sauce following the same recipe!

