name:
Scaccia
ingredients:
Semolina: 3 ¼cups(500 g)
Water: 0.9cup(220 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.25oz(7 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Tomato purée: 1cup(250 g)
White onions: 0.4cup(60 g)
Parsley: 1bunch
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the dough (40-60 min.)

instructions:
To make the scaccia, first prepare the dough: in a bowl, place the crumbled yeast , pour in the water, and stir to dissolve the yeast, then add the oil and finally the flour, incorporating it gradually while mixing by hand .
Once the flour has absorbed the liquid, add the salt . Knead again to combine and then move to a work surface to form a homogeneous dough ball
Place it in a bowl and cover with plastic wrap . Let it rest for an hour at room temperature (during the summer, 40 minutes of rest will suffice). Meanwhile, prepare the filling: dice the caciocavallo cheese , clean and thinly slice the onion ,
and finally chop the parsley . In a bowl, pour the tomato sauce and season it with oil, salt , and pepper. Take your dough ball
and divide it into two equal parts with a dough scraper . Take one half and roll it out with a rolling pin on a lightly floured work surface : you should obtain a thin sheet, 1 mm thick and approximately 15.75x14.57 inches. Fill the sheet with half of the tomato sauce , making sure to leave a border around the perimeter;
continue by adding half of the sliced onion , half of the chopped parsley , and half of the cheese. At this point, fold the sheet by lifting the edges from the shorter side ,
fold it again in the same direction and then fold the top edge over the dough . Seal the outer edges by folding them inward
and then lightly press with your fingers to make the dough adhere well . Now proceed in the same way with the other half of the dough to make the second scaccia. Pour the oil onto a baking sheet , place the scacce
and drizzle them with oil . Bake them in a preheated static oven at 428°F for 25 minutes. Once cooked, remove from the oven and let them cool slightly before enjoying your scaccia !
The scaccia keeps in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. We do not recommend freezing.
The filling of scaccia knows no rules: in Ragusa, a filling based on tomato sauce, basil, caciocavallo, and pecorino is very popular. In Syracuse, a filling with thinly sliced potatoes, plenty of parsley, and caciocavallo is made. This exquisite dough can also be enriched with ricotta, sausage, or seasonal vegetables and may include onions, chard, broccoli rabe, or eggplants.

