name:
Club sandwich with scrambled eggs
ingredients:
Sandwich bread: 12slices- cereal
Eggs: 4- large organic
Caciocavallo cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)
Avocado: 2- large and ripe
Champignon mushrooms: 3 ½cups(250 g)
Carrots: 1
Lettuce: - a few leaves
Radicchio: - a few leaves
Butter: 2- walnuts
Thyme: to taste
Lemon juice: a few- drop
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the club sandwich with scrambled eggs, start by cleaning the mushrooms. After removing the root, clean them with a damp cloth to remove soil residue , then slice them about 1/4 inch thick and move to the stove. In a pan, heat a little oil and add the mushrooms ,
then immediately season with salt and sauté them from time to time until they are golden brown; set them aside . Move on to the avocado, cut it in half and discard the central seed using a spoon. Then scoop out the flesh into a bowl , along with the lemon juice ,
salt, and a drizzle of oil and mash everything with a fork until you get a puree . Move on to the salad: trim and peel the carrots, then grate them ,
also chop the radicchio and lettuce leaves and gather everything in a bowl. Dress with oil and salt, mix, and set aside . Then grate the caciocavallo cheese (previously peeled) using the wide holes of a grater .
Finally, slice the bread to obtain 12 slices about 1/2 inch thick . At this point, you have everything you need, move to the stove. Put a pan on the heat and let a pat of butter melt . As soon as the bottom is hot, add the slices of bread, letting them toast for a few minutes on both sides; when they are golden, set the slices of bread aside .
Crack the eggs directly into the same pan, and as soon as the whites begin to set, break them up with the help of a spatula or wooden spoon . Then adjust with salt, pepper, and season with thyme leaves stripped from the branches. Mix for another couple of minutes, stirring continuously . Turn off the heat and add the grated cheese, stirring continuously so that the caciocavallo melts .
Now move on to the assembly. Spread some avocado cream on the first slice of bread , then a spoonful of salad and close with the second slice. On this, place some scrambled eggs
and then some mushrooms . Cut the sandwich in two, ready to be served : your club sandwiches with scrambled eggs are ready, enjoy your meal !
Any form of storage or advance preparation is discouraged, except for the mushrooms. If you prefer, they can be cooked in advance but risk their texture becoming mushy, and their color turning dark brown.
You can customize your club sandwiches with scrambled eggs by replacing the mushrooms with other ingredients, perhaps inspired by tastes and the season: asparagus, peppers, spinach, to name a few! While if you want to strengthen the salad, you just need to dress it with vinegar and/or a few drops of Tabasco!

