name:
Pasta with chickpea cream and arugula
ingredients:
Organic Penne Rigate pasta: 0.7lb(320 g)
Arugula: 3.5oz(100 g)
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Precooked chickpeas: 1cup(250 g)
Leeks: 0.6cup(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Water: 1mestolo
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare pasta with chickpea cream and arugula, put a pot of water to boil, and add salt once it reaches a boil. Proceed with the chickpea cream: heat a drizzle of oil in a saucepan . Peel the leek and slice it into thin rings; add it to the saucepan , then drain and add the pre-cooked chickpeas . Salt to taste and sauté everything for about 5 minutes, stirring often.
Once the leek has softened, turn off the heat and add the basil leaves , stir and add pepper to taste . Pour the chickpea mixture into a tall container ,
add the grated Parmesan along with the oil and blend with an immersion blender .
To obtain a sufficiently creamy mixture , if necessary, you can add one or two tablespoons of hot water to further dilute the cream during processing. Cook the pasta for the time specified on the package ; in the meantime, in the same saucepan where you cooked the chickpeas, pour a drizzle of oil and add the arugula .
Wilt the arugula for a few minutes, using a ladle of pasta cooking water to help . Once the arugula is wilted, add the chickpea cream and additional basil leaves .
Drain the pasta directly into the saucepan while it's still al dente . Stir well, mixing for a few moments , and serve your pasta with chickpea cream and arugula hot , if you prefer, with a drizzle of raw oil and a sprinkle of black pepper.
It is recommended to consume pasta with chickpea cream and arugula as soon as it is ready.
You can prepare the chickpea cream in advance and keep it in the fridge for 1 day.
Freezing is not recommended.
Want even more color and flavor in this first course? Add some cherry tomatoes to scald along with the arugula and some fresh chili pepper!

