name:
Friselle
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.125oz(3 g)
Semolina: 1.875cups(300 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(310 g)
Water: 1.375cups(330 g)
Fine salt: 1.8tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + 5 hours of rising

instructions:
To prepare the friselle, start with the starter dough. Pour the water into a small jug and dissolve the yeast inside . Then pour the flour into another bowl, add the water and yeast mixture , and mix with a fork .
When you have obtained a smooth mixture , cover with plastic wrap and let it rise at room temperature for about 2 hours or until it has doubled in volume . At this point, move on to the actual dough. In a larger bowl, pour both the flour and the semolina .
Mix with a fork to combine the two flours ; then slowly pour in the water and start kneading with your hands .
Once you have finished adding the water, also add the starter dough and knead again. Then add the salt and knead once more.
At this point, transfer the mixture onto a work surface and knead it for about ten minutes . When it is smooth, shape it into a ball and transfer it to a large bowl .
Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for 2 hours at room temperature, or until doubled . Then transfer it back onto the work surface
and without overworking it, form a loaf . Then divide it into 5 pieces of 7.4 oz . From each piece, form a loaf about 14-16 inches long
and close it into a ring to form a donut . Gently press to join the two ends of the dough. Place the donuts on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, spacing them well apart , and let them rise for about 1 hour .
Then bake in a preheated static oven at 428°F for 20 minutes, then remove them and let them cool on a wire rack in the middle shelf. Lower the oven temperature to 338°F, and when the donuts have cooled, cut them in half horizontally with a serrated knife .
Place them back on the baking sheet with parchment paper and bake again for 40 minutes. Then lower the oven to 320°F and wait another 40 minutes. In this way, the friselle will dry out well inside, and if they turn out too pale, raise the temperature to 356°F until they turn golden on the surface; it will take about 10 minutes. Remove them from the oven and let the friselle cool. At this point, you can store them or "sponsorle" before dressing them to taste with oil, salt, pepper, cherry tomatoes, basil , or other ingredients such as small mozzarella balls, anchovies, tuna...
Friselle can be stored for 8-10 days in a paper bag in a dry environment.
The second baking should be done immediately after splitting the donuts in half; this way, you will get the right consistency and the typical roughness, so that when moistened (sponsored), they evenly absorb all the water and soften perfectly to be dressed and consumed.
You can prepare the dough in the evening or morning and let it rise in the fridge for 8-10 hours instead of the 2 hours of rising. If you prefer, you can also use whole wheat flour, adjusting the amount of water to use based on the consistency of the dough.

