name:
Tagliatelle with chickpea cream and clams
ingredients:
Clams: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Precooked chickpeas: 1.67cups(400 g)
Egg Tagliatelle pasta: 13.5oz(380 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note plus 1 hour to purge the clams

instructions:
To prepare the tagliatelle with chickpea cream and clams, first, clean the clams. Rinse them under running water, then tap them on a surface to remove some sand. In a bowl, place some water with a pinch of salt and stir to dissolve it , add the clams , and leave them in the water for 1 hour.
After this time, chop the parsley and set it aside. Then pour a drizzle of oil into a saucepan, add a clove of garlic , and let it brown. Then add the chickpeas ,
a glass of water , a pinch of salt, and let it cook for about 20 minutes. Meanwhile, as just done, brown another clove of garlic with a drizzle of oil in another pan . Then remove the pan from the heat and add the well-drained clams. Put it back on the heat
and cover with a lid. Let the clams open over high heat, and as soon as they are all open, remove the garlic and turn off the heat. Once the chickpeas are cooked, remove the garlic from here as well; transfer about 1/3 of them to a bowl and set them aside. Blend the remaining chickpeas in the pan with an immersion blender .
At this point, add the whole chickpeas to the cream , add a pinch of black pepper, the clams , and their filtered cooking water .
Add some chopped parsley and cook the tagliatelle in plenty of boiling salted water . Then drain them when there's about 1 minute of cooking left and transfer them to the saucepan with the chickpea cream and clams .
Finish cooking over low heat , add a little more parsley , and serve your tagliatelle with chickpea cream and clams immediately .
Consume the tagliatelle with chickpea cream and clams immediately or store them in the refrigerator for up to 1 day and reheat them before serving.
For a spicy note, add some fresh chili pepper to the chickpea sauté!

