name:
Cocoa, Ricotta and Sour Cherry Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(220 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.88cup(200 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(120 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 5tbsp(25 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Baking powder: 3tsp(16 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Cornstarch: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Black cherried in syrup: 5.3oz(150 g)- (drained weight)
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the cocoa, ricotta, and sour cherry cake, first prepare the cocoa base batter: pour the eggs into a large bowl, add the sugar , and use an electric mixer to whip until the mixture is fluffy and frothy . Add the ricotta and blend it into the mixture with the mixer.
At this point, sift the flour , baking powder , and unsweetened cocoa into the bowl,
also pour in the milk and continue to mix until the batter is smooth and homogeneous . Drain the sour cherries from the syrup .
Now butter and flour a 9-inch springform pan . Pour half of the cocoa batter into the pan and add 7-8 sour cherries on the surface . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 10 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the ricotta cream: pour the ricotta into a bowl, add the egg , sugar , and cornstarch ,
then mix everything with a spoon . After the baking time has elapsed, remove the cake pan from the oven and pour the ricotta cream over the cocoa base . Spread it evenly with a spoon, taking care to leave a ¾ inch space around the edge .
Insert about twenty sour cherries into the cream , then pour the remaining cocoa batter and distribute it evenly .
At this point, take a skewer stick, insert it a few inches into the batter, and make small circular movements to create a marbled effect . Finally, decorate the surface with the remaining sour cherries . Bake again in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40 minutes. Once baked, remove your cocoa, ricotta, and sour cherry cake from the oven and let it cool before removing from the pan and enjoying it !
The cocoa, ricotta, and sour cherry cake can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days, covered with aluminum foil or plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended.
As an alternative to sour cherries, you can choose to add sliced strawberries or pears, or you can omit the fruit and make a delicious marbled cocoa and ricotta cake!

