name:
Pasta with ricotta, green beans, and fresh tomatoes
ingredients:
5-grain spaghetti  pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 1lb(450 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ¾cup(200 g)
Green beans: 1.4cups(180 g)
Red onions: 1.8oz(50 g)- (about half an onion)
Lemon peel: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pasta with ricotta, green beans, and fresh tomatoes, bring abundant water to a boil in a large pot and add salt once boiling. Meanwhile, wash and trim the green beans , then chop them . Wash the cluster tomatoes and cut them in half ,
then cut them into pieces . Clean and slice the onion . Pour a drizzle of oil into a pan ,
add the onion and let it sauté over low heat, stirring occasionally; it will take a few minutes to become golden. At this point, add the cluster tomatoes , salt , and pepper to taste.
Let it cook over medium heat for about 10 minutes , stirring occasionally. Remove from heat, pour into a tall container, and blend with an immersion mixer to obtain a smooth sauce . Set aside for a moment.
Cook the pasta until al dente . Meanwhile, in another larger pan, pour a drizzle of oil, heat slightly, and add the green beans . Stir and let the green beans sauté for 5 minutes over moderate heat, stirring occasionally. Then add the cow's milk ricotta ,
moisten with a ladle of pasta cooking water , stir, add salt if necessary, and turn off the heat. Off the heat, aromatize with lemon zest . When the pasta is al dente, drain it directly into the pan with the sauce and turn on low heat.
Add a bit of cooking water and mix for a moment until you achieve a creamy consistency. Turn off the heat and plate: place on individual serving plates the fresh tomato sauce as a base , then add a nest of spaghetti and your pasta with ricotta, green beans, and fresh tomatoes is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume immediately. If the pasta should remain, you can store it in the fridge and the next day make a pasta frittata!
Freezing is not recommended.

Replace the green beans with other preferred seasonal vegetables like asparagus or zucchini and add aromatic herbs to your quick tomato sauce to make it even more fragrant!

