name:
Club sandwich with octopus and potatoes
ingredients:
Whole grain bread loaf: 0.7lb(300 g)
Octopus: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4 ½tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: 1tuft
Spinach: 3 ½cups(100 g)
Lemons: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the club sandwich with octopus and potatoes, start by How to Clean and Cook Octopus . After removing the part underneath where the beak is , remove the eyes and rinse the mollusk well.
Then, in a pot with boiling water scented with bay leaves, dip the tentacles 3-4 times before completely submerging them and covering with a lid . Remember that 1 kg (2.2 lbs) of octopus cooks in about 40-50 minutes: use the fork test to check if it's cooked. At the end of cooking, let it cool slightly before cutting it into pieces of about 1.5 cm (5/8 inch) .
Finally, season with a drizzle of oil , adjust the salt, and mix well . Then heat up a grill and cook the octopus pieces for a few minutes
turning halfway through . Once grilled, set the octopus aside . Meanwhile, prepare the potato puree. After peeling them
and slicing them thinly , place them in a bowl and pour enough water to just cover them . Cover with plastic wrap
and cook in the microwave at 900w for 8 minutes: turn the potatoes halfway through, being careful not to burn yourself with the steam . When they are ready, let them settle for a few more minutes still covered , then pass them through a potato masher
to obtain a soft puree . Don't worry if you see some water coming out; it will keep the mixture creamier. Then season with oil, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley , mix, and set aside .
Prepare the bread: slice it to obtain slices weighing about 25 grams (0.9 oz) each, in total you should get 12 . Brush with a little oil and grill these too on a hot grill .
After a few moments, turn the slices over and let the other side brown . Finally, prepare the salad: wash and dry a lemon, then peel with a peeler, being careful not to take the white part , and cut into very thin strips .
Pour the spinach leaves into a bowl and garnish with oil, salt, and the thin lemon zest . Squeeze the juice from one half and mix . Finally, you can move on to the assembly. The club sandwich is made up of 3 slices and 2 layers. So, spread the potato cream on 3 slices of bread ,
on 2, add the octopus pieces and the salad . Then place the first slice on the second
and the last, with the cream facing the filling, will act as a cap for the others . Here is the first club sandwich with octopus and potato salad ready ; continue like this with all the others and remember to cut them diagonally before serving them !
Any form of storage is not recommended once the club sandwich with octopus and potato salad is assembled. You can prepare the octopus up to a day in advance by storing it in the refrigerator. However, it is better to prepare the potato puree and the spinach salad at the moment.
Instead of spinach, use Romaine lettuce or iceberg to enrich your club sandwich with octopus and potato salad. If you want to give the recipe a special touch, use a few drops of aioli. Finally, if you don't have a microwave, you can also boil the potatoes without the skin to save time.

