name:
Shrimp Salad
ingredients:
Shrimps: 1.4lbs(650 g)- (to clean)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1tsp
Black pepper: 1tsp
Lamb's lettuce: 2cups(50 g)
Arugula: 0.9oz(25 g)
Mango: ¾cup(120 g)
Red spring onions: 1.1oz(30 g)
Avocado: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tsp
Black pepper: to taste
Greek yogurt: ¼cup(50 g)
Lime: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the shrimp salad, start by cleaning the shrimp. Remove the tail from the body, then pull away the legs and cut the back where the dark intestinal vein is. Remove it using the tip of a knife or a toothpick . At this point, you should have about 11 oz of cleaned shrimp. Put them in a bowl and season with salt, pepper, and oil .
Add the sweet paprika , mix and set aside to marinate . Meanwhile, clean the scallion and cut off the base .
Then slice it thinly using a mandoline or a knife, and then put it in a bowl with ice water: this will soften the flavor and make it crunchier . In the meantime, clean the mango by peeling it
and slicing it thinly; set this aside too . Finally, move on to the avocado: cut it in half, remove the seed using the blade and then peel it. Finally, slice it into 8 pieces .
Heat a grill and cook the avocado slices , cooking 1 minute on one side and then the other . Place them on a plate and proceed to cook the shrimp ,
these will cook 2 minutes on one side and 1 on the other: remember not to turn them over so that the cooking will be even . Place these on the plate too so they can cool down and prepare the salad. In a bowl, add cleaned lamb's lettuce and arugula .
To these, add the drained scallion slices , adjust with oil, salt, and pepper, and mix . On a serving plate, arrange some of the salad along with a couple of pieces of grilled avocado and some mango slices .
Finally, garnish with the shrimp . Prepare an accompanying sauce by grating the zest of 1 lime into a bowl to which you've added the Greek yogurt . Then squeeze the juice and pour it inside .
Mix thoroughly and then pour a few tablespoons on the plate ; here is your fresh and tasty shrimp salad ready: enjoy .
It is recommended to consume the shrimp salad immediately once it's ready, to not compromise the texture of the shrimp and the salad.
Accompany your shrimp salad with spicy croutons, simply toast the cubes in a pan with spicy oil. Alternatively, instead of mango, and to increase the acidic note, you can use red fruits by choosing raspberries and currants!

