name:
Pasta with pesto and fresh tuna
ingredients:
5-grain Pennette Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Tuna filet: 0.55lb(250 g)
Lemon peel: to taste
Dried chili pepper: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Basil: 1oz(25 g)
Almond slices: 1.5oz(40 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 8 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare pasta with pesto and fresh tuna, start by boiling the pasta water. Then take the basil leaves, detach them from the stems , and clean them with a cloth. Put the leaves in a tall glass, peel and slice the garlic , add the sliced almonds
add the grated Pecorino and extra virgin olive oil . Blend everything with an immersion blender
to obtain a creamy and homogeneous mixture . Now cook the pasta , in the meantime cut the fresh tuna into cubes of about 3/4 inch .
In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil , heat slightly, and plunge in the tuna cubes . Sear them briefly over medium heat, turning often. Add flavor with untreated lemon zest
and dried chili . Season and turn off the heat: the tuna should only be seared. Set the tuna aside, in the same pan pour the pesto, then add a ladle of pasta cooking water ; also add the previously seared tuna ,
turn on the heat just long enough to briefly sauté, drain the pasta using a skimmer to pour it directly into the pan ; stir to combine for a few moments and turn off the heat. Transfer the pasta with pesto and fresh tuna to serving plates, season with a drizzle of raw oil to taste and serve .
Pasta with pesto and fresh tuna keeps for a maximum of one day in the fridge. You can prepare the pesto in advance and freeze it if there's any leftover. We do not recommend freezing the dish after cooking.
To give the pesto a more delicate flavor, you can use Parmigiano Reggiano.
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze for at least 96 hours at -0.4 Fahrenheit in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, as per Ministry of Health guidelines .

