name:
Triglie alla Vernaccia
ingredients:
Red mullet: 1.9lbs(850 g)- (4 to clean) rock
Vernaccia wine: 0.4cup(100 g)- from Oristano DOC
Datterino tomatoes: 10.6oz(300 g)
Breadcrumbs: 0.7oz(20 g)
Lemon peel: 1- untreated
Parsley: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare red mullet with Vernaccia, first wash the cherry tomatoes and crush them with your fingers into a bowl to release the juice and seeds . Pour about 1.4 tbsps of oil into a non-stick pan, add the garlic clove , and let it flavor for 1 minute, then add the cherry tomatoes with their juice , season with salt and pepper.
Cover with a lid and cook over medium heat for about 15 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the rest of the ingredients: chop the parsley , grate the lemon zest and set aside.
Scale the red mullets , then cut the belly with a knife and rinse them under running water to remove the entrails : in total, you should obtain about 1.4 lbs of cleaned red mullets.
Once the tomato cooking time has elapsed, transfer them to a bowl and pour the remaining oil into the same pan. Lay the red mullets in the pan , raise the heat to medium-high, and sprinkle with breadcrumbs
and the grated lemon zest , then season with salt and pepper. At this point, deglaze with Vernaccia di Oristano DOC and, once it has evaporated, turn the red mullets to the other side using a spoon or fork .
Cook for a couple of minutes, then add the cherry tomatoes , lower the heat and let simmer gently for 4-5 minutes. At the end of cooking, add a fragrance with chopped parsley and serve your red mullet with Vernaccia hot !
It is recommended to consume the red mullet with Vernaccia as soon as it is ready, or you can store it in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
To speed up preparation, you can ask your fishmonger to give you already cleaned red mullets. The traditional recipe calls for whole red mullets, but if you prefer, ready-made fillets can also be used.

