name:
Bruschetta with burrata and vegetables
ingredients:
Bread: 9oz(250 g)- (8 slices)
Burrata cheese: 12.4oz(350 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fava beans: 1lb(450 g)- (to clean)
Carrots: 1cup(125 g)
Radishes: 3.5oz(100 g)
Lamb's lettuce: 0.5oz(15 g)
Mint: 8leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 4 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the bruschetta with burrata and vegetables, first, prepare the bruschetta: cut the bread into slices about 1 inch thick , place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, and drizzle with olive oil , salt, and pepper . Toast the bread slices in a preheated oven at 465°F with the grill on for about 3-4 minutes, then remove and let them cool.
In the meantime, you can prepare the vegetables: open the fava bean pods and collect the seeds in a bowl , then score the top of each seed and remove the outer skin . Wash the carrots and remove the ends, then peel them with a vegetable peeler ;
grate the carrots and set them aside. Finally, wash the radishes , slice them very thinly , and set them aside.
Now prepare the dressing for the vegetables: pour the olive oil into a tall, narrow glass, add 7-8 washed and dried mint leaves , and blend with an immersion blender to obtain a smooth emulsion .
At this point, season the prepared vegetables with salt and pepper , drizzle with the mint-scented oil , and mix well .
When all the ingredients are ready, you can start assembling the bruschetta: take the toasted bread slices, add the burrata , and garnish with the fava beans , grated carrots ,
radishes , and a few mâche leaves, which you have previously washed and dried . Your bruschetta with burrata and vegetables is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the bruschetta with burrata and vegetables as soon as they are ready and not to store them in the refrigerator.
If you prefer, you can replace the radishes with cherry tomatoes or prepare marinated zucchini to use instead of fava beans. If you wish, you can also add some walnut halves!

