name:
Risotto with asparagus and raspadura
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1cup(320 g)-
Asparagus: 1.8lbs(800 g)- to clean
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste-
Shallot: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Vegetable broth: to taste-
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Raspadura cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Raspadura cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the risotto with asparagus and raspadura, first clean the asparagus: to find the exact point where the stalk changes from woody to tender, we suggest bending it into an arch, it will snap at the right point . Then even out the base with a knife. Now peel the asparagus because the outer part is a bit fibrous . At this point, you can cut them into thin slices ,
cut the tips in half lengthwise and set aside. Peel and slice the shallot thinly . Heat a little olive oil in a pan
and add the asparagus , season with salt and pepper, and sauté over high heat for a few minutes so that they are well flavored .
Meanwhile, in a saucepan, stew the chopped shallot over low heat with a little oil , also adding a splash of broth , until it becomes creamy, which will take about 10 minutes. When the soffritto is ready, add the rice and toast it until it becomes translucent.
then begin to cook it by adding hot broth a little at a time . After a few minutes, add the asparagus and continue adding broth little by little until the rice is fully cooked.
The risotto is ready, it's time to cream it: turn off the heat and add the butter and raspadura . Adjust the salt and pepper and plate, adding a tuft of raspadura on each dish .
We recommend consuming the risotto with asparagus and raspadura immediately, if there are leftovers, store them in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for one day. We do not recommend freezing.
Those who love strong flavors can enhance the wild notes of asparagus by adding a whole clove of garlic to the soffritto, which can be removed after it has flavored the dish! If you prefer, you can use young Grana directly and add the raspadura only to garnish the dishes.
The term raspadura refers to the ancient technique of the "raspa", a way of scraping the cheese with a special knife to obtain very fine flakes that melt pleasantly in the mouth. Originally, this practice was a way to recover Grana wheels that were not perfectly aged, but today raspadura is much appreciated for its appearance as well as its flavor.

