name:
Mini chocolate and chili caprese cakes
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 4oz(115 g)
Almond flour: 1cup(115 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(115 g)
Butter: ½cup(115 g)- soft
Egg whites: ⅓cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 2.1oz(60 g)
Potato starch: ¼cup(20 g)
Baking powder: 0.7tsp(3 g)
Green Peperoncino: 2tsp
Fine salt: 1pinch
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2tbsp(10 g)
Greek yogurt: 0.4cup(100 g)
Mint: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste
Raspberries: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the mini chocolate and chili caprese cakes, first grate the dark chocolate; then cut the butter into cubes and transfer it to a bowl. It should be soft but still pliable. Add half of the powdered sugar and whip everything with an electric mixer, working the mixture for about 5 minutes . Then add the salt
and the egg yolks . Work everything for another 5 minutes until you get a swollen and smooth mixture . Add the chili to the almond flour
and pour everything into another bowl with the grated chocolate . Sift in the cornstarch, baking powder , and unsweetened cocoa powder .
Mix all the dry ingredients . Then whip the egg whites with the remaining powdered sugar , they should not be stiff peaks but still firm, to form the typical "bird's beak" .
Then add about 1/3 of the egg whites to the butter and egg mixture; incorporate them by gently mixing with a spatula from bottom to top . Then also add 1/3 of the dry ingredients and mix gently. Then add half of the egg whites again
half of the dry ingredients and continue this way until all the ingredients are used up, and you have a firm and homogeneous batter . Butter 4 molds with a 4-inch diameter and fill them with the batter .
Transfer the molds to a baking sheet and bake in a static preheated oven at 338°F for about 20 minutes. When they are cooked, take the cakes out of the oven and let them cool completely before removing them from the molds. Decorate with powdered sugar, a dollop of yogurt, raspberries, and mint, and serve your mini caprese cakes .
The cooked cakes can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Alternatively, they can be frozen.
Serve the mini caprese cakes with a mango sauce; simply blend the mango with a bit of powdered sugar and sift it all!
Add toasted almonds for a crunchy note!

