name:
Sardenaira
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Water: 1.1cups(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4 ½tbsp(60 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(12 g)
Fine salt: 1.9tsp(11 g)
Canned tomatoes: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Salted anchovies: 10fillets
Taggiasca olives: 2.8oz(80 g)- in brine
Salted capers: 4tsp(20 g)
Garlic: 8cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ⅓tbsp(50 g)
Oregano: to taste- dry
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.7tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + 80 min. of rising

instructions:
To make the sardenaira, first prepare the dough: take a small amount of water from the total dose, add the salt , and stir with a teaspoon to dissolve it . Place the flour in a large bowl and start kneading while slowly pouring in the oil .
and the remaining water , then also add the water in which you dissolved the salt . Continue kneading to mix the ingredients, then transfer the mixture to the work surface and work it with your hands until the dough is compact.
At this point, add the crumbled fresh yeast and continue working the dough for about 10 minutes until it becomes smooth, soft, and homogeneous . Cover the dough with a kitchen towel and let it rest at room temperature for 20 minutes.
After 20 minutes, oil a 14x11 inch pan and spread the dough with your fingers directly in the pan (11-12), then let it rise for an hour at a temperature of 77°F-79°F at room temperature covered with plastic wrap (away from drafts) or in an unheated oven with the light on.
In the meantime, desalinate the anchovies and capers by rinsing them well under running water , and drain the olives. Once the rising time is over, preheat the oven in static mode to 410°F and start topping the focaccia: gently spread the tomato pulp over the entire surface ,
then distribute the olives , capers , and anchovies .
Finally, add the garlic cloves with the skin , sprinkle with a bit of oregano , and drizzle with about 2 tablespoons of oil .
Bake the focaccia in a preheated static oven at 410°F for about 30 minutes. Once cooked, take the sardenaira out of the oven and dress it with the remaining 1 1/2 tablespoons of oil and a bit more oregano . Your sardenaira is ready to be enjoyed nice and hot !
It is recommended to consume the sardenaira as soon as it's made and still hot. You can store it in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, covered with plastic wrap, and reheat it before serving. It can be frozen once cooked after it has cooled completely, then thaw it in the refrigerator and reheat before serving.
The dough can also be made with a stand mixer equipped with a dough hook.
If you prefer, you can use fresh tomatoes instead of tomato pulp.

