name:
Green Bean Salad
ingredients:
Green beans: 9oz(250 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 3.5oz(100 g)- (red, yellow, green)
Shallot: 1
Vegetable oil: 1spoonful
Whole cane sugar: 1spoonful
Water: 1oz(30 g)
Almond slices: ¼cup(15 g)
Feta cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Mustard: 1spoonful
Lemon juice: 1
Vegetable oil: 5tbsp(70 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the green bean salad, start by cleaning them. Trim off the two ends , then rinse them well and cut them in half or into three parts, depending on the size . At this point, blanch them for 10 minutes in boiling water .
After the time has passed, drain them into a bowl with ice water to stop the cooking , shortly after, drain and set aside . Meanwhile, toast the almonds in a pan, scorching them for 3 minutes over medium heat: toss them often to prevent burning .
Finally, proceed with the last cooking, that of the shallots. Clean them and cut them into 4 parts . Transfer to a preheated pan with oil and immediately add the sugar . After a few moments of caramelization, deglaze with water .
Continue cooking for another 5 minutes until the shallots are slightly softened and the bottom is browned . At this point, you can prepare the mustard sauce. In the bowl of a blender, pour the mustard, lemon juice , salt, pepper, and oil .
Use the blender to emulsify everything and in a few seconds, your sauce will be ready . After rinsing the various kinds of cherry tomatoes, cut them in half ,
and add them to the green beans you have placed in a salad bowl . Garnish with the sauce and give a quick stir .
Finally, add the feta by crumbling it by hand , the toasted almonds , and mix. Here is your colorful and tasty green bean salad ready: you just have to serve it with the shallots .
The green bean salad can be stored for a couple of days at most; however, the tomatoes and onions will lose consistency and release liquids: for this reason, it would be better to consume it immediately.
Make your green bean salad richer by adding cubes of bread toasted in a pan with oil and chili pepper, or with Taggiasca black olives. And if you want to give a more exotic touch, add some fruit: tart with red raspberries and sweet with cantaloupe melon.

