name:
Rocket savory pie
ingredients:
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- cold
Type 00 flour: 1cup(200 g)
Water: 0.3cup(70 g)- cold
Arugula: 3cups(60 g)
Dried tomatoes: 1.063oz(30 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(70 g)
Eggs: 1.9oz(54 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)
Lemon peel: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note +40 minutes of resting for the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
To make the rocket savory pie, first prepare the shortcrust pastry: in a bowl, pour the flour and the cold butter cut into pieces , quickly mix with your fingertips to obtain a crumbly mixture . Add salt, pour in the cold water
and knead until you get a compact and homogeneous dough. Form a block , wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 40 minutes.
Grease a tart pan with a removable bottom that is 9 inches in diameter , then roll out the rested dough on a floured surface using a rolling pin to a thickness of about 1/16 inch .
Place the dough sheet into the tart pan, trim the edges by cutting off the excess dough with a knife (10-11). Now, prepare the filling: in a tall glass, pour the cream, the egg ,
the Pecorino cheese , and 10 g of rocket , add salt and pepper, and blend everything with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth cream.
Now spread most of the fresh rocket on the bottom of the tart pan , pour the cream on top , and spread it evenly with the back of a spoon .
Add more fresh rocket , reserving a handful for the final garnish, and the drained, coarsely chopped sun-dried tomatoes . Add a fragrance of grated lemon zest .
Add pepper and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 25 minutes on the middle rack. Once baked, remove the savory pie from the oven , place the remaining fresh rocket as desired . Remove the rocket savory pie, place it on a cutting board, and serve it at the table .
The rocket savory pie can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. You can freeze it after baking.
Accompany a slice of this flavorful pie with fresh burrata cheese, and you will get a delicious dish with perfectly balanced flavors!

