name:
Soft tart with white chocolate
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)
Nut flour: ⅓cup(30 g)
Sugar: ½cup(90 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp(8 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- softened
Whole milk: ½cup(110 g)- at room temperature
White chocolate: 4.1cups(650 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)- softened
Pistachio paste: 3.3tbsp(50 g)
Strawberry jam: 3cups(120 g)
Strawberries: 16- (about 220 grams)
Berries: 1oz(30 g)
Pistachios: 1tbsp(10 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 16
Cost: Average
Note plus 2 hours of ganache resting time

instructions:
To prepare the soft white chocolate tart, the first thing to do is make the ganache, which must rest in the refrigerator for at least a couple of hours. Heat the cream in a saucepan over very low flame and quickly chop the white chocolate . Then transfer it to a bowl and gradually pour in the boiling cream , stirring with a spatula until the chocolate is completely melted.
Then add the softened butter and emulsify everything with an immersion blender until completely incorporated . At this point, take about 300 g of ganache and set it aside .
Add the pistachio paste to the remaining ganache . Emulsify again with the blender to incorporate it and cover both bowls with plastic wrap . Place in the refrigerator for 2 hours until well crystallized.
Meanwhile, make the base of the soft tart. Pour the egg into a bowl and, using electric beaters, incorporate the sugar . Only when the mixture is well whipped can you add the softened butter, cut into cubes and continue beating until you get a smooth and frothy cream .
Then also pour in the room temperature milk and incorporate it with the electric beaters to the rest of the ingredients (13-14). In another bowl, sift the all-purpose flour and the baking powder
and the hazelnut flour . Gradually add them to the mixture until well combined .
Butter and flour a 28 cm smart mold and pour the batter inside ; level the surface with a spatula and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 30 minutes on the middle rack.
Once baked, remove the soft tart from the oven and let it cool before removing it from the mold by flipping it onto a wire rack . Then place the jam in the cavity of the dessert
and spread it with the back of a spoon to cover the entire surface . Take the strawberries, remove the stem by cutting it with a small knife to create a flat base and place them on the tart .
Take the ganache from the fridge and whip both with electric beaters (28-29). Then transfer the white chocolate ganache into a piping bag fitted with a 1 cm star nozzle and the pistachio one into a piping bag fitted with a 18 mm plain nozzle .
Decorate the tart first with the pistachio ganache, covering almost all the empty spaces, and then with the white one, thus covering the entire surface of the cake so that the jam is no longer visible. Decorate with fresh berries . Then coarsely chop the pistachios
and sprinkle them over the ganache . Finish with powdered sugar and serve your soft tart with white chocolate .
The soft white chocolate tart can be stored for 2 days in the refrigerator. It is possible to freeze the already baked base.
If you have enough time, let the ganache crystallize for an entire night. You will get a creamier and more uniform consistency. Instead of strawberries and berries, you can use other seasonal fruits: peaches, apricots, or figs, for example!

