name:
Tofu and Eggplant Millefeuille
ingredients:
Tofu: 1 ¼cup(320 g)
Eggplant: 10.2oz(290 g)- long
Basil: 3tbsp(15 g)
Pizzutelli tomatoes: 1.1cups(220 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Soy sauce: ½tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the tofu and eggplant millefeuille, first wash and trim the eggplants , then cut them into thin slices, about 0.04 inches and set aside. Then cut the tofu into slices about 0.16 inches thick . Finally, wash and dry the tomatoes, keeping the stem.
In a high-sided pan, heat the oil for frying and wait until it reaches 356°F: then fry a few slices of eggplant at a time for 2-3 minutes or until golden brown; at that point, drain them and place them on a tray lined with paper towels to absorb the excess oil . Finally, season with salt and pepper.
Now, in the same pan, fry the cherry tomatoes for about 20 seconds. Drain the cherry tomatoes with a slotted spoon and distribute them on a tray lined with paper towels so they can dry . Finally, fry the slices of tofu: immerse them in the pan with the hot oil .
When they are golden brown, drain them and also place them on a tray lined with paper towels . Now prepare the sauce: in a tall glass, place the basil leaves, olive oil
and soy sauce . Blend everything with an immersion blender until you get a homogeneous mixture .
Everything is ready to assemble the millefeuille: on a serving plate, place the fried tofu , then top with 3/4 crispy eggplant slices and some cherry tomatoes .
Continue with another layer of tofu and eggplant , spread a tablespoon of sauce on the plate , and accompany with some fried cherry tomatoes . The tofu and eggplant millefeuille is ready to be served.
As with all fried dishes, we recommend consuming the tofu and eggplant millefeuille immediately to preserve its crispness!
Vary the accompanying sauce using other herbs like parsley or try a fresh Greek yogurt cream flavored with chopped chives!

