name:
Rolled focaccia
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2.8cups(350 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.3tsp(1.5 g)
Fine salt: 1.7tsp(10 g)
Dried tomatoes in oil: 0.5oz(15 g)
Green olives: 0.4oz(10 g)- pitted
Black olives: 0.1cup(10 g)- pitted
Oregano: 2tsp- dry
Salt: 2tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the dough rising time (at least 12 h)

instructions:
To prepare the rolled focaccia, combine the two flours in a bowl, add the fresh yeast and pour in part of the room-temperature water . Mix with a wooden spatula, then also add half of the oil
and mix . Now add the salt , pour in the water
the remaining oil and start kneading by hand , then transfer the dough to a lightly oiled work surface and handle it
just long enough to shape it into a ball, by rounding the dough . Place it in a lightly oiled bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rest for at least 12 hours at room temperature away from drafts. After the indicated time, take the dough and roll it out with a rolling pin on a lightly floured surface : you should get a rectangle about 20 inches long.
Divide the rectangle in half lengthwise , then spread and press lightly with your fingertips on the two strips obtained; dress the surface with a drizzle of oil ,
a bit of dried oregano and flaky sea salt . Twist each strip onto itself, as if creating a breadstick, starting from one end
and continuing along the entire length . Then create a spiral by wrapping one of the two strips onto itself , until the spiral shape is complete .
Fasten the other strip at the end of the spiral and continue the circle you started (22-23). Your rolled focaccia is ready: oil a baking sheet and place the rolled focaccia on it. Divide the pitted green and black olives in half lengthwise, then insert them here and there between the grooves of the spiral
Also insert the sun-dried tomatoes in the remaining spaces , then dress again with a drizzle of oil and flaky sea salt . Bake the rolled focaccia in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 35 minutes on the lower rack (be mindful of the timing for your oven). Once cooked, take the rolled focaccia out of the oven, let it cool slightly, and enjoy!
The focaccia can be stored for a maximum of 1-2 days in a container.

You can fill the rolled focaccia with cold cuts, fresh cheeses, capers, anchovies...!
You can let the dough mature in the refrigerator for 24 hours instead of letting it rise at room temperature.

