name:
Soft tart with cream
ingredients:
Butter: 8.8oz(250 g)- cold
Type 00 flour: 2 ⅓cups(300 g)
Brown sugar: ¾cup(180 g)
Almond flour: 1 ¼cup(125 g)
Eggs: 3.5oz(100 g)- approximately 2
Baking powder: 0.4tsp(1.5 g)
Fine salt: ½tsp
Lemon peel: ½
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 3tbsp(45 g)
Cornstarch: 6 ¼tbsp(50 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(25 g)
White Rum: 1.5oz(40 g)
Brown sugar: to taste
Almond slices: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note plus resting times (1 hour)

instructions:
To prepare the soft tart with cream, start with the latter because you will need it cold. Heat the milk in a saucepan . Meanwhile, in another saucepan, pour the egg yolks and brown sugar , then quickly mix with a spatula until the mixture is uniform .
Then add the cornstarch and work it first with the spatula and then with a whisk . When the milk is hot, pour it into the egg yolk, sugar, and cornstarch mixture little by little, stirring continuously with the whisk .
When you have obtained a uniform mixture, put everything back on the heat and stir until it reaches a boil and the cream thickens . Off the heat, add the butter and the rum .
Mix everything and transfer to a bowl. Cover with cling film in contact with the cream and let it cool first at room temperature, then in the refrigerator for 1 hour. When the cream is cold, you can start making the pastry. Pour the cold cubed butter and brown sugar into a stand mixer fitted with a flat beater . Add the grated lemon zest
and the salt . Work everything with the flat beater, and when you have obtained a soft cream, add the eggs, one at a time . When these are well absorbed, you can add the almond flour ,
the all-purpose flour and the baking powder . Work again to obtain a soft and homogeneous mixture .
Transfer it to a piping bag without a nozzle and use it to create concentric circles at the base of a 9-inch springform pan (20-21).
When you have covered the entire base, still using the piping bag, form the edge by raising it about 1.2 inches . Then transfer the rum cream to another piping bag, also without a nozzle , and use it to fill the soft shortcrust shell .
With the remaining shortcrust, still creating concentric circles, cover the entire surface (25-26) to hide the cream. Sprinkle with a little brown sugar
and garnish with sliced almonds . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F, on the middle shelf, for about 50 minutes until it is well golden. Then take it out of the oven and let it cool completely before removing from the mold and serving your soft tart with cream .
The soft tart with cream can be stored in the fridge for up to 3 days. You can optionally freeze only the raw pastry.
The cream can be flavored with other alcoholic beverages or spirits. For a non-alcoholic version, add the same amount of orange or lemon juice.

