name:
Eggplants Beccafico Style
ingredients:
Eggplant: 0.8lb(360 g)- (1 large)
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(100 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- to grate
Raisins: 0.4cup(60 g)
Pine nuts: 5tbsp(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the eggplants beccafico style, first wash and dry the eggplants, then cut them into slices about 0.4 inches , you should obtain about 6 slices, place them in a bowl sprinkled with salt , cover them with plastic wrap , and let them sit for 15 minutes to release their water.
Meanwhile, wash the raisins and soak them in water to soften them. In a large pan, heat a couple of tablespoons of oil, add the breadcrumbs and pine nuts and toast for a few minutes.
Let the toasted breadcrumb and pine nut mixture cool , then place it in a bowl, add the grated Pecorino and chopped parsley ,
mix and set aside . Meanwhile, drain the softened raisins and rinse the eggplants under running water .
Heat a grill and, when it's very hot, place the eggplant slices on it and grill them on both sides until they are soft and have the characteristic grill marks . Once the eggplants are cooked, place them on a cutting board and distribute the previously prepared breadcrumb mixture on top . Stuff with the raisins
and roll the eggplants from the short side to create a roll , secure the ends with a toothpick .
As you form the rolls, place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper, sprinkle them with the remaining breadcrumb mixture, add salt and pepper, and drizzle with a bit of olive oil . Bake the rolls in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 20 minutes or until golden brown . Once cooked, remove your eggplants beccafico style and serve them hot .
Store the eggplants beccafico style in the fridge for up to 3 days, covered with plastic wrap. You can freeze them after cooking.
Add citrus zest to the breadcrumbs for a fresh and aromatic note and, if desired, accompany your rolls with a quick basil pesto.

