name:
Ham broth
ingredients:
Prosciutto crudo: 1.3lbs(600 g)- 15 months of aging
Shallot: 7oz(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Water: 4 ½cups(1.1 l)- cold

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note plus 2 hours in the freezer

instructions:
Start by making the ham broth. Take the slightly thick slices of ham and stack them on top of each other. Then, using a sharp knife, cut them into julienne strips . Continue like this until you finish the ham. You should achieve a regular cut that allows for even browning, enhancing the broth's flavor. Set the ham aside and focus on the shallots. First, peel them (2-3).
Then cut them in half lengthwise and into thin, even slices . At this point, heat a saucepan and add a splash of oil to provide some richness .
When the oil is hot, add the ham and let it brown, stirring often , until it becomes crispy when tasted. This step is crucial as it extracts the ham's flavor and saltiness, so no additional salt is needed for the broth. Once the ham is well roasted, add the shallots .
Keep stirring and let them braise together. Once you achieve an even browning , you can add the cold water . Increase the heat and initially opt for a high flame boil to release impurities. Then lower the heat and continue cooking for another 45 minutes. This slow boil helps achieve a clearer and more transparent broth.
After the necessary time , place a thinly woven paper over a sieve. Alternatively, you can use a food-grade gauze. Using a ladle, scoop out only the liquid, setting aside the ham and shallots for later, and pour it into the sieve to filter. Once all the broth is obtained , store it in the fridge for the next 24 hours, and in the meantime, prepare the ham powder.
After 24 hours, retrieve the broth. You'll notice the dark liquid remains at the bottom while the fat floats on top . Use a ladle to remove the fat until you obtain a clear, fully defatted broth .
Ham broth can be stored in the fridge for up to 3 days. Alternatively, it can be frozen.
Use ham that has been aged for at least 15 months. Parma or San Daniele will be perfect. If it’s a bit fatty, don't worry; the broth will be defatted, and the result will be the same. During the ham browning stage, the saucepan should always be hot. Keep the heat lively. If the temperature drops too much, the ham will become boiled, affecting the broth's taste. Pouring cold water into the broth creates a thermal shock that helps extract the ham's flavor and intensifies the taste. To avoid waste, it is possible to dry the ham and shallots in a preheated static oven at 160°F for 24 hours. Alternatively, you can use them for a sauce.

