name:
Mediterranean Smoked Cheese Pouches
ingredients:
Smoked scamorza cheese: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 1cup(230 g)
Taggiasca olives: 2.5oz(70 g)
Caper berries: 1.1oz(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Rosemary: 4sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the Mediterranean smoked cheese pouches, start with the cherry tomatoes. Rinse them and then cut them into 4 or 6 parts, depending on their size , as you go, collect them in a colander placed inside a bowl . Let them sit like this for a few minutes, so they will lose some of their water. In the meantime, take care of the smoked cheese, cut it into slices
and then into strips, from these obtain cubes about 0.6 inches (1.5 cm) . Drain the cherry tomatoes and pour them into a container, then add the pitted olives . Add the caper berries, salt, pepper, and a drizzle of oil .
Mix well before adding the smoked cheese cubes and stir once more to combine everything . Cut 4 squares of parchment paper and distribute among them more or less equal portions .
Scent each pouch with 1 sprig of rosemary divided into 2-3 bunches and fold the pouch to form a small bag to be secured with kitchen string .
Once you have closed all the pouches, transfer them to a baking sheet and bake them in a preheated static oven at 320°F (160°C) for about 20 minutes . After the time has elapsed, serve your Mediterranean smoked cheese pouches immediately and enjoy your meal !
If you prefer, you can prepare the Mediterranean smoked cheese pouches the day before and cook them just before serving. Alternatively, you can cook them and keep them in the turned-off but still warm oven until serving. Consume them immediately once cooked because the cheese tends to solidify. Freezing is not recommended, whether cooked or raw.
Delicious variations for your Mediterranean smoked cheese pouches? Any you prefer! From toasted pine nuts in a pan, thyme, baby zucchini sliced into rounds, and even a nice grating of lemon zest. Finally, to better pamper your guests, prepare some bread croutons in a pan with oil and oregano: they will be perfect to accompany the pouches!

