name:
Pasta with zucchini flowers and feta
ingredients:
Gluten-free Linguine pasta: 11.25oz(320 g)
Zucchini flowers: 3 ½cups(100 g)
Feta cheese: 0.67cup(100 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 6.3oz(180 g)
Leeks: 2.1oz(60 g)
Basil: 4tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.4cup(90 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)- to grate
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 2.5oz(70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To make the linguine with zucchini flowers and feta, first place a pot full of salted water on the stove, which will be used to cook the pasta, and bring it to a boil. Then take care of cleaning the zucchini flowers: use a brush to remove any traces of soil, remove the inner pistil , and cut them into thin strips . Now drain the sun-dried tomatoes well from the preservation oil and then cut them into strips .
Wash and dice the tomato . Trim the leek and slice it . Meanwhile, cook the linguine until al dente, keeping them a couple of minutes behind the times indicated on the package .
Make the pesto: in the glass of a blender, place the basil, leeks , tomatoes , and oil .
Blend everything with an immersion blender to obtain a homogeneous mixture, season with grated cheese and salt, mix and set aside.
In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil and sauté the sun-dried tomatoes with the zucchini flowers for 1 minute (13-14), turn off and set aside, they will be used to garnish the dish. In the same pan, pour the pesto
and drain the pasta here , pour a ladle of cooking water , mix and sauté the pasta for a very short time over medium heat. When cooked, season with a drizzle of oil .
Serve the linguine hot, garnishing the dish with sautéed zucchini flowers along with the sun-dried tomatoes and crumbled feta , finally pepper to taste. The linguine with zucchini flowers and feta are ready to be enjoyed .
The linguine with zucchini flowers and feta can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
Add nuts to your liking to the pesto, such as walnuts or pine nuts, and feel free to replace the zucchini flowers with julienned green beans.

