name:
Colomba semifreddo
ingredients:
Colomba: 5.3oz(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Egg whites: 3 ⅓tbsp(50 g)
Water: 5tsp(25 g)
Almond slices: 0.7cup(60 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Dark chocolate: 2.5oz(70 g)
Butter: ½tsp
Colomba: 1.75oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 7 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 8 hours of resting in the freezer

instructions:
To prepare the colomba semifreddo, start by making the Italian Meringue . Pour the water into a heavy-bottomed saucepan, add the sugar , and cook over low heat while stirring. Monitor the temperature of the syrup, which should reach 250°F . When the syrup reaches 237°F, pour the egg whites into a stand mixer fitted with a whisk (or use an electric hand mixer) and whip them to stiff peaks at medium speed.
Once the syrup reaches 250°F, lower the mixer speed and slowly pour half of the syrup over the egg whites , then increase the speed again. Continue to slowly add all of the syrup and mix until the meringue is completely cool. Stop the mixer when the meringue is very dense, smooth, and glossy . You will obtain about 4.6 oz of meringue. Cut 5.3 oz of colomba
and crumble it with your hands into a bowl , add the crumbled colomba to the freshly whipped meringue . In a separate bowl, whip the fresh cream with well-cleaned whisks
until fluffy and gently fold it into the meringue and colomba mixture with a motion from the bottom up to prevent deflating . Transfer the cream mixture into a piping bag without a nozzle (12-13).
Fill molds of 3.3x2.2 inches with a border of 1.6 inches high . Cover with plastic wrap and allow to rest in the freezer for at least 8 hours.
When it's almost time to serve, place the almonds and sugar in a pan and cook over low heat, stirring occasionally, until the sugar is absorbed and adheres to the almonds, forming a light clear coating , set aside. Cut 1.8 oz of colomba into cubes
and sauté them in a pan with a pat of butter (19-20). Set aside, and just before removing the semifreddos from the freezer, melt the chocolate in the microwave or a bain-marie
Until it becomes fluid . Unmold the semifreddos by dipping the base of the mold in hot water and running a small knife between the semifreddo and the mold. Turn out onto a cutting board .
With a sharp knife, divide the semifreddos in half diagonally . Arrange them on the serving plate and decorate them with sliced almonds, chocolate , and sautéed colomba. Wait until they slightly soften to room temperature and then serve the colomba semifreddo .
The colomba semifreddo can be stored in the freezer for about a week.

Unmold the dessert while it's still cold and let it slightly soften at room temperature before consuming it.
If you prefer a different (and even more delicious) decoration, you could unmold each semifreddo, cut it in half, and dip one side in dark chocolate, then into a bowl of hazelnut crumbs. You'll need to let it dry for a moment and then place it back in the freezer just long enough for the chocolate to set.

