name:
Ligurian Meatloaf
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2.6lbs(1.2 kg)
Green beans: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Eggs: 4- medium
Marjoram: 2sprigs
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Breadcrumbs: ⅓cup(50 g)
Butter: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 0.4cup(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To make the Ligurian meatloaf, first thoroughly wash and then boil the potatoes for 40 minutes, starting with cold water ; cook until they are soft when pierced with the prongs of a fork, the timing may vary depending on the size of the potatoes. Wash and trim the green beans , then cook them separately in a pot with water for about 25 minutes , always starting with cold water. They should be tender by the end of cooking without falling apart.
Once the green beans are ready, drain them and cut them into small pieces . Meanwhile, the potatoes will also be cooked, drain them and pass them through a potato masher, collecting the puree in a large bowl .
Add the cooked green beans here as well , add the grated cheese and the eggs .
Season with marjoram leaves , then salt and pepper. Mix and set aside.
Now butter a rectangular baking dish of 12x9 inches and sprinkle the bottom and edge with breadcrumbs . Pour the mixture into the baking dish ,
level the surface with the back of a spoon or a spatula to distribute it evenly , then if desired, make the typical decorations by dragging the prongs of a fork first vertically and then horizontally, thus creating a striped pattern .
Now in a bowl, combine the grated Parmesan and breadcrumbs , mix and spread the obtained mixture over the surface .
The meatloaf is ready for baking : bake it in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 50 minutes, then in grill mode for about 2 minutes, to brown the surface . Serve the Ligurian meatloaf after letting it cool slightly .
The Ligurian meatloaf can be stored for 2 days in the refrigerator after being cooked. It can be frozen after cooking.
There are many variations of this dish: some add prescinsêua , a typical creamy Genoese cheese, others use zucchini instead of, or in addition to, green beans, other still enrich it with mortadella, pancetta, or other cold cuts and sausages to make it even tastier!

