name:
Anchovy Parmigiana
ingredients:
Anchovies: 1.4lbs(630 g)- to clean
Tomato purée: 2cups(470 g)
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Basil: 4leaves
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1filo
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Semolina: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the anchovy parmigiana, start with the sauce: in a saucepan, heat the oil and garlic, then add the tomato sauce . Add the basil leaves , season with salt and pepper, and finally let it cook for 5 minutes on low heat, stirring occasionally .
Set the sauce aside and move on to How to Clean Anchovies . Under a stream of water, remove the head and then open the anchovies like a book, pulling out the central bone . Rinse the inside well and continue like this with all the others .
Once the anchovies are cleaned, start heating plenty of oil for frying in a high-sided pan (it should reach a maximum of 340°F as measured with a kitchen thermometer); coat the anchovies in semolina a bit at a time , then proceed to fry them, always a few at a time , and as soon as they are golden, drain them on absorbent paper .
Cut the mozzarella into cubes and finally grease a 13x6 inch baking dish. Sprinkle with breadcrumbs and shake the dish well to make the breadcrumbs adhere well. Then form a first layer of anchovies .
On the base just obtained, sprinkle some tomato sauce and dust with Parmesan and cheese cubes . At this point, continue forming several layers, starting each time with the anchovies .
Then again add sauce, Parmesan , mozzarella, and again anchovies . Continue like this until you finish the ingredients. On the last layer, add the remaining sauce, Parmesan ,
then flavor with basil leaves , a bit of breadcrumbs , and finally a drizzle of oil .
Your anchovy parmigiana is ready for the oven : let it cook at 375°F for about 20 minutes, and at the end, 5 minutes of grilling to brown the surface . Let it settle a few minutes before cutting and enjoying it .
The anchovy parmigiana can be stored for 1 day in the refrigerator, keeping in mind that the texture may change. Therefore, it is best to consume it immediately. Alternatively, you can assemble the parmigiana and bake it a few hours later, just as the anchovies can be fried in advance. Alternatively, you can also freeze it cooked if you prefer and if you used fresh ingredients not previously frozen. Freezing it raw is not recommended.
You can replace the semolina with all-purpose flour, in which case, know that you will get a less crispy fry.
As an alternative to breadcrumbs, you could use cornmeal (preferably fine cornmeal).
Pepper and chili pepper are always great allies to tomato sauce, while buffalo mozzarella can be replaced with caciocavallo or another melting cheese.
Finally, for all lovers of the great classic, add slices of fried eggplant between the layers: it will be a truly irresistible anchovy and eggplant parmigiana!

