name:
Polenta casoncelli with rabbit
ingredients:
Eggs: 1.75oz(50 g)- (about 1)
Egg yolks: 1tbsp(13 g)- (approximately 1)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(145 g)
Semolina: 3 ½tbsp(35 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Water: 1.8tbsp(27 g)
Whole corn flour: ⅓cup(40 g)
Water: ¾cup(180 g)
Whole milk: 0.3cup(75 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Taleggio cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.75oz(20 g)- (16-18 months of aging)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(25 g)
Rabbit saddle: 8.8oz(250 g)
Red wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Rosemary: 1sprig
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)
Oregano: to taste- fresh

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note plus the pasta resting times

instructions:
To prepare the polenta casoncelli with rabbit, first make the egg pasta. Pour the flour and semolina onto a work surface, form a well , and place the egg and the yolk in the center .
Add the oil , a pinch of salt , and the water .
Knead with your hands , being careful to break the eggs well and mix everything. If the dough is too hard, you can add a bit more water. Knead until you obtain a soft, elastic, and homogeneous dough. Then wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature for about 20-30 minutes .
At this point, prepare the polenta. Heat the water, salt it , and when it starts to boil, pour in the flour gradually and cook, stirring with a wooden spoon for about 40 minutes,
until it is firm . Meanwhile, cut the taleggio cheese into cubes . Once cooked, it's important that the polenta is hot but not boiling, otherwise, the cheese will break apart when you add it. Add the taleggio and stir to melt it .
Then add the Parmesan and stir again to melt everything . Soften the filling by adding milk .
Pour it slowly to better adjust the final consistency . Taste and adjust with salt and pepper as needed. Place a strainer over a bowl and transfer the polenta into it. Then sieve it to obtain a smoother filling , then transfer it into a piping bag and let it cool for about half an hour.
After 30 minutes, roll out the dough . Use a pasta machine and decrease the thickness with each pass (2-3), until you get a very thin sheet. It should be about 1/32 to 1/16 inch thick.
Roll it all out and always cover the part you are not using with a cloth to prevent it from drying . At this point, start cutting the dough with a 2 1/2 inch round cutter , to make discs that will be your casoncelli. Then take the polenta and pipe some dollops in the center of each circle .
At this point, use a mister to moisten the surface of the pasta , this will help them seal better so the filling won't come out. Fold the casoncelli in half (8-9),
sealing the edges well . Then turn it over and gently press in the center to create an impression. Continue in this way with all the others .
Place a pot full of water on the stove for cooking the pasta. Set aside the casoncelli and take the rabbit saddle. Cut it to obtain precise cubes about 1/2 to 3/4 inch in size . At this point, the cooking will be parallel. As soon as the water starts to boil, drop the casoncelli in . Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan until it almost reaches the smoke point, add the rabbit cubes, spacing them well apart .
Season with salt and pepper . Wait 1-2 minutes, and when they are well browned on one side, turn the rabbit over with a spoon . Deglaze with red wine
and let it evaporate . Remove from the heat, add a knob of butter , and a couple of sprigs of rosemary . Stir with the spoon.
At this point, the casoncelli should also have been floating for a few minutes and will be cooked. Drain them using a slotted spoon and transfer them to another pan. Add the butter , turn the heat back on, and let it melt slowly .
Add the Parmesan and cream them by gently mixing. If the temperature is too high, add a splash of cold water . The casoncelli are ready ; all that's left is to plate them.
Now that everything is ready, it's time to plate. Place the casoncelli , add a bit of their sauce , arrange the rabbit cubes nearby ,
a bit of the cooking juices , and fresh oregano leaves . Serve your polenta-filled casoncelli with rabbit while still hot !
Raw casoncelli can be stored in the refrigerator for a few hours. Alternatively, they can be frozen.
Once cooked, they can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 day.
If you want, you can use 7 oz of ready-made polenta and soften it with milk before sieving.
Adding oil to the egg pasta helps to give the dough more elasticity.
To work the dough better, before letting it rest, you can use a pasta machine. Just roll it out, fold it, and roll it out again 3-4 times until it is smooth. The polenta should be quite firm, cook it for at least 40 minutes.
When adding cheese to a dish, it's important that it is not at a boiling point, otherwise, the cheese will break. In this case, the ideal temperature for the polenta when adding the cheese is 158-176°F at most.
We recommend choosing a less aged Parmesan so as not to overpower the taste of the polenta.
The saddle is the driest part of the rabbit, sear it quickly to keep it tender.

