name:
Pane esse
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Water: 3tbsp(45 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: ¼tsp(1 g)
Manitoba flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Biga: 4.5oz(125 g)
Water: 3oz(85 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(12 g)
Lard: 0.53oz(15 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: ½tsp(3 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note 12 hours of leavening

instructions:
To prepare S bread, start making the starter dough at least 8 hours before (you can start the evening before to bake the next day). Pour the flour into a bowl, crumble in the fresh yeast , and gradually add room temperature water . After gathering the ingredients with a fork, knead with your fingertips to combine .
Form a small dough ball , cover with plastic wrap, and let it mature at room temperature for at least 8 hours. As soon as the starter dough is mature , you can start working on the dough. In a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook, pour in the flours, the yeast ,
125 g of starter dough , and all the water . Turn on the stand mixer at low speed for 7 minutes, after which you can add the lard ,
the oil , and the salt . Continue kneading for another 7-8 minutes, until the dough clings to the hook and appears compact. Then transfer it to the work surface, knead it with your hands , and quickly shape it into a ball.
Place it to rise for 2 hours in a bowl, covered with plastic wrap , in the oven turned off with the light on. After 2 hours, take the risen dough , gently transfer it to the work surface and divide it into 4 .
Flatten the dough pieces by pressing them with your hands . Take one dough piece, keeping the others under plastic wrap, and pass it through a pasta roller on the widest setting , then fold it in half , rotate it 90°, and pass it through the roller again, repeating this operation 15-18 times to refine the dough.
As you roll the dough, try to always obtain a smaller rectangle, you should get one about 1.5 inches wide . Then fold the outer flaps, making a three-part fold (20-21), and widen it one last time in the pasta roller.
You should obtain a rectangle of 6x4 inches . Roll it from the longer side and form a cylinder about 4 inches long .
Proceed the same way with the other 3 dough pieces; as you make the cylinders, keep them aside covered with plastic wrap . Once all 4 cylinders are obtained, stretch them to about 12 inches long , then roll one side halfway .
Do the same from the opposite side, reversing the rotation direction to get the typical S shape . Transfer the rolls to a baking tray, cover them with plastic wrap, and let them rise for another 2 hours in a warm place.
When the rolls have increased in volume, they will be ready for baking . Bake them in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 30 minutes. Once the time is up, the rolls will look golden on the surface , let them cool slightly and serve them .
S bread keeps for a couple of days at most in a paper bag. It can be frozen after baking.
Before baking, you can sprinkle it with sesame or poppy seeds to make it more aromatic. Leftover stale bread can be used as croutons to be added to broths and pureed soups.

