name:
Ice cream cone
ingredients:
Eggs: 1.8oz(50 g)- (about 1 medium)
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Water: ½cup(120 g)- warm
Cornstarch: 8tbsp(60 g)
Potato starch: 7 ½tbsp(60 g)
Rice flour: ½cup(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note (it is preferable to have the specific tool, a wooden cone, to give a precise shape)

instructions:
To make the ice cream cone, first gently melt the butter in a saucepan and let it cool. Sift the dry ingredients (rice flour, potato starch, and corn starch) through a sieve , add the sugar , and start mixing with a whisk while gradually pouring in the hot water .
Add the egg and the cooled melted butter , continue mixing with the whisk until the ingredients are combined and smooth, without lumps .
Heat a non-stick pan or crepe maker (no need to grease it) and pour a ladle of batter , spread the mixture with the appropriate tool or rotate the pan, aiming for a thin disk about 7-8 inches in diameter. Cook for about 4-5 minutes, then flip the wafer using a spatula or a scraper and cook the other side for 1-2 minutes.
Each wafer should be nicely golden . As you cook the wafers, shape them while they are still hot to form the cone. Place the wafer on a work surface, lay the special cone form in the center , lift one edge of the wafer to wrap around the form .
Then lift the other edge from the opposite side , closing it over and making sure to seal the bottom well. The cone is formed .
Continue using up the batter, as the wafers are ready, you can remove the previously made cones (16-17). With these quantities, you'll get about 12 cones. Your ice cream wafers are ready to be filled with your favorite flavors !
To achieve the shape of tacos made from ice cream wafers, you can proceed as follows: pour a ladle of batter into a 4-inch diameter ring mold placed on a hot griddle , wait 3-4 minutes for it to cook, then gently detach the edges from the ring mold and flip the wafer with a spatula .
Wait a few minutes (1 or 2 should be enough) for it to become golden on the other side , then remove the wafer from the griddle and immediately lay it on the edge of a wooden cutting board or on a 0.8-inch thick surface to give it the typical taco shape by pressing the edges of the wafer . Your taco-shaped wafers are ready .
The ice cream cone can be stored in a tin for about 4 days. We do not recommend freezing.
To give the cone shape, we recommend working the wafers while they are still hot. If you do not have the appropriate tool to form the cones, you can make some using aluminum foil, even filling the inside to make a firm cone. Enrich your cone with flavor by dipping the tip in melted chocolate and then covering it with chopped nuts, sealing the bottom deliciously!

