name:
Eggplants a pullastiello
ingredients:
Eggplant: 3 ¾cups(300 g)
Smoked provola cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Neapolitan salami: 1.75oz(50 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2 medium)
Type 00 flour: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the eggplants a pullastiello, start by washing and drying the eggplants. Then move to the cutting board and slice the smoked provola (or mozzarella) into slices about 0.12–0.16 inches thick. Then cut the Neapolitan salami, after removing the casing, into slices about 0.04–0.08 inches thick . Move on to the eggplants: remove the two ends and the first two slices of the opposite sides .
Then cut them into slices also about 0.12–0.16 inches thick . Heat a pan with plenty of seed oil for frying, bringing it to a temperature of 284°F. Then immerse a couple of slices of eggplant at a time and cook on both sides for a total of 1-2 minutes .
Drain the eggplant slices, dry them with some kitchen paper and place them on the cutting board, then add the slices of provola and salami . Then close with another slice of eggplant and continue like this with all the others .
Break the eggs into a shallow and wide bowl, season with salt and pepper. Dip the stuffed eggplants first in the eggs and then in the flour . Make sure the flour adheres well so that everything is compact and sealed within the egg and flour wrapper. Dip a couple of pieces at a time into the boiling oil at 284°F ,
let them brown well for about 3-4 minutes , then drain on absorbent paper and continue like this with all the others. Your eggplants a pullastiello are ready, just enjoy them while they are still very hot !
Once the eggplants a pullastiello are ready, it is recommended to consume them immediately, avoiding any form of storage because the eggplants would become soft.
Try different types of fillings for your eggplants a pullastiello: ham instead of salami, provolone instead of smoked mozzarella... for a vegan version, you can replace the cold cuts with grilled vegetables!

