name:
Chicken Sandwich
ingredients:
Chicken: 1.8lbs(800 g)- roasted
White bread loaf: 12slices
Bacon: 12slices
Iceberg lettuce: 1- small head
Cluster tomatoes: 2
Red onions: 2
Mayonnaise: 0.8cup(200 g)
Cajun: 4tsp
Tomato paste: 1spoonful
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 4 pieces

instructions:
To prepare the chicken sandwich, first wash and thinly slice the vine tomatoes . Wash and julienne the iceberg lettuce , then peel and slice the red onion .
Set the vegetables aside and deal with the roast chicken: remove the skin and bones and shred it, collecting it in a large bowl . You will need about 300 g (10.5 oz) of chicken. In another bowl, pour the Mayonnaise , a tablespoon of tomato paste , and 4 teaspoons of Cajun spice mix.
Stir with a spoon to mix everything , then add the shredded roast chicken
and stir to flavor it with the sauce . Set aside the chicken and heat a pan: when it's hot, place the bacon slices without overlapping and without adding any other fats and brown them for 3 minutes, turning on both sides .
Once the bacon is ready, drain it on a tray lined with paper towels . In the same pan where you cooked the bacon, add the sliced onions and cook them for about 3 minutes. Once they are well browned, turn off the heat and let them cool .
Now take the slices of sandwich bread: for each sandwich, butter one slice on both sides and 2 slices on one side only . Heat a pan and toast the slice of bread buttered on both sides until golden brown .
Now you can assemble the sandwich: take one of the two slices of bread buttered on one side only and fill with chicken , tomato slices , and julienned iceberg lettuce .
Cover with the freshly toasted slice and continue filling with more chicken , bacon
and onion . Cover with the other slice of bread buttered on one side only , press the sandwich with a spatula
and toast it on both sides in a hot pan . Once the surface is golden brown, transfer the sandwich to a cutting board, cut it in half diagonally and serve it hot !
Consume the chicken sandwich immediately. It is not recommended to store after toasting.

