name:
Hot milk and coffee cake
ingredients:
Whole milk: 0.67cup(150 g)
Coffee: 10tbsp(50 g)- for moka pot
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(180 g)
Butter: 6tbsp(90 g)
Eggs: 7.4oz(210 g)- (about 4 medium)
Baking powder: 1.3tsp(6 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the hot milk and coffee cake, first preheat the oven in static mode to 356°F. Then move on to preparing the batter: collect the eggs in a bowl, add a pinch of salt and turn on the electric beaters. While the beaters are running, gradually add the sugar so it will absorb better. When the mixture is light and fluffy, about 10 minutes later, stop the electric beaters .
Sift the flour and baking powder into the same bowl , adding them gradually while mixing with a spatula from the bottom up , so as to incorporate them without deflating the mixture. Now take a couple of tablespoons of batter and set them aside in another bowl .
In a small saucepan, heat the milk over medium heat, then add the butter in pieces : melt it completely and bring the mixture to a simmer. Prepare the coffee and add it to the saucepan . Stir to combine .
Pour the hot milk and coffee mixture into the bowl with the spoonfuls of batter you set aside earlier . Stir carefully with a whisk; you will get a sort of batter . Now pour this batter little by little into the larger bowl with the rest of the mixture ,
gently mix as you incorporate it with a spatula . The batter is ready . Butter a 20 cm diameter mold .
and pour the batter in . Bake the cake in a preheated static oven at 356°F on the lowest rack (not in contact with the base) for about 45 minutes. After the first 25 minutes, move the pan to the central rack and continue for the remaining 20 minutes. To check if it's done, do the toothpick test: insert a toothpick into the cake and, once extracted, make sure the toothpick is dry before removing from the oven. Once baking is complete, remove it and let it cool slightly, take it out of the pan, and let it cool completely . Your hot milk and coffee cake is ready to be served .
The hot milk and coffee cake keeps for 3-4 days outside the fridge under a glass dome. If you like, you can also freeze it.
You can fill the hot milk and coffee cake with chantilly cream or chocolate cream to make it even more delicious!

