name:
Yakitori roll
ingredients:
Edible rice paper: 8fogli
Chicken breast: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Soy sauce: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Rice vinegar: 2spoonfuls
Lime peel: 1- to grate
Wildflower honey: 1spoonful
Tabasco®: to taste
Red peppers: (100 g)
Yellow peppers: 0.67cup(100 g)
Yellow onions: 0.67cup(100 g)
Parsley: to taste
Mayonnaise: 2spoonfuls
Ketchup: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + marinating time (at least 1 hour or overnight)

instructions:
To make the yakitori rolls, first prepare the chicken: cut the chicken breast in half , remove any remaining fat and cartilage, and cut it into cubes no larger than 3/4 inch . Transfer the chicken to a baking dish and season with oil ,
soy sauce , rice vinegar , Tabasco sauce ,
honey and lime zest , mix well and cover with plastic wrap . Marinate the chicken in the refrigerator for at least an hour or, better yet, overnight.
In the meantime, prepare the vegetables: clean and thinly slice the yellow pepper , the red pepper , and the onions using a mandolin.
After the marinating time, take the chicken cubes and skewer them on a wooden stick . Heat a grill well and cook both the meat skewers and the vegetables ; if you don't have a grill with two compartments, we recommend grilling the vegetables first and then the meat. Cook the skewers for about 4-5 minutes, turning them often to ensure even cooking . Once ready, transfer the skewers and vegetables to a baking dish and cover with plastic wrap to keep them soft.
To prepare the dipping sauce, pour the ketchup, mayonnaise , and Tabasco sauce into a small bowl, mix well and transfer the sauce obtained into a kitchen squeeze bottle, if you have one.
Now you can start assembling the rolls: rehydrate a sheet of rice paper by dipping it in a small amount of room-temperature water for a few seconds , then lay it on the work surface. Place the grilled chicken cubes in the central part of the rice paper sheet , add the peppers with the onions , and a few parsley leaves.
Finally, drizzle with a little sauce . Fold the side flaps towards the center and roll up the rice paper sheet to seal the filling inside , then cut the roll obtained in half. Repeat the same procedure to form your yakitori rolls and serve immediately !
It is recommended to consume the yakitori rolls as soon as they are ready. They cannot be frozen.
You can vary the filling of the rolls using beef, veal, or lamb. Alternatively, to the dipping sauce, you can make a yogurt sauce based on Greek yogurt and sour cream, perhaps with the addition of a few drops of Tabasco!

