name:
Cocoa and Cherry Tartlets
ingredients:
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2tbsp(15 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.1cups(140 g)
Nut flour: 8tbsp(50 g)
Powdered sugar: ½cup(65 g)
Butter: 3.2oz(90 g)
Egg whites: 1oz(30 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1pinch
Fresh liquid cream: 0.67cup(150 g)
Greek yogurt: 0.67cup(150 g)
Sugar: 5tsp(20 g)
Black cherried in syrup: 36
Mint: 6leaves

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time for the pastry and the cream

instructions:
To prepare the cocoa and cherry tartlets start by pouring flour, powdered sugar , and hazelnut flour into a mixer bowl. Sift the cocoa powder ,
add the salt , vanilla extract , and cold butter in small pieces .
Start the blades to get a sandy mixture. Transfer it to the work surface and add the egg whites . Knead briefly by hand to combine the ingredients .
Shape into a dough and wrap it in plastic wrap . Then let it rest in the refrigerator for at least an hour and prepare the cream. In a bowl pour the cold cream from the fridge and sweeten it . Insert the beaters and whip at medium-high speed until the mixture is almost stiff .
Add the whipped cream to the Greek yogurt in two parts: the first portion will soften the mixture , the second will lighten it, so fold gently . Cover with plastic wrap and place this in the refrigerator as well .
Retrieve the cocoa pastry and flatten it with a rolling pin , then roll it out between two sheets of parchment paper using a rolling pin and roll it to a thickness of 1/8-3/16 inch . Smooth the surface well by rolling with the pin: this way you will get an even surface .
With a 4 1/3 inch cutter, cut out 6 discs and place them inside 6 metal rings measuring 3 3/4 inches and arrange them on a sheet of parchment paper . Trim the excess with a small knife. Transfer everything onto a baking sheet and let it rest in the fridge for about an hour .
Take the baking sheet and prick the bases of the tartlets , place 6 sheets of parchment paper and gently press in ceramic baking beads or dried beans , then proceed with How to do blind baking . Bake the tartlets in a preheated oven at 340°F for about 20 minutes; at the end of the baking let them cool before unmolding and let them cool completely .
Pour the chilled cream into a piping bag with a Saint Honoré nozzle and pipe over about 2/3 of the base forming a tight serpentine . Then garnish the remaining 1/3 with halved cherries, decorating the surface with some cherry pieces and a bit of syrup . A mint leaf to refresh and color everything and your delicious cocoa and cherry tartlets are ready: enjoy them !
Cocoa and cherry tartlets can be kept in the fridge for a couple of days in a glass container. The pastry can be prepared in advance following the storage of our base sheet. The cream of cream and yogurt can be prepared a few hours in advance, it will be firmer. The cherries can also be cooked a few hours in advance, if the syrup dries up too much, just add a drop of water and heat the pan.
If you prefer, you can try making a large tart instead of tartlets, pay attention to the appearance: put the cream in a piping bag without a nozzle and squeeze out many round dots, then the cherries will fill the grooves forming an irresistible decoration. For an extra touch of flavor, grate some dark chocolate on top! During their season, you can sauté 4 1/2 oz of sweet cherries with 1 oz of sugar, when the juice comes out, bring it to a boil with 1 1/4 oz of kirsch and 3 1/2 oz of water!

