name:
Milanese-style Cuoppo
ingredients:
Veal: 8.8oz(250 g)- minced
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2spoonfuls
Eggs: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Eggs: 2
Breadcrumbs: 80
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Potatoes: 5.3oz(150 g)
Sage: 2leaves
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Coarse salt: 1spoonful
Garlic: 1clove
Ketchup: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Greek yogurt: 1spoonful
Tabasco®: - some

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the Milanese-style cone, start with the meatballs. In a bowl, add the veal ground meat along with the eggs , salt, pepper, and Grana Padano cheese . Mix everything well until all ingredients are combined .
Form meatballs of about 0.5 oz each and place them on a small tray as you go . Then put the meatballs to rest in the refrigerator while you can work on the herb mix that will flavor the potatoes. In a mixer, add the peeled garlic ,
sage leaves , rosemary sprigs , and coarse salt .
Blend until obtaining a grainy mix; set it aside . Wash and dry the potatoes, then slice them thinly with a mandoline to get slices about 0.08 inches thick . Drain on a paper towel and gently pat dry .
Next, heat plenty of oil in a large pot and immerse the chips when the oil reaches 340°F , let them brown for a couple of minutes, then drain on a paper towel . Garnish with the mix and set aside .
At this point, take the meatballs from the fridge and coat them first in flour , then in beaten eggs , and finally in breadcrumbs .
Proceed to fry the meatballs in the hot oil, still at 340°F, for about a couple of minutes and drain them once they are golden . Finally, prepare the dipping sauce by mixing ketchup in a small bowl with a few drops of Tabasco and Greek yogurt .
Mix everything well until obtaining a smooth cream . All that's left is to wrap your Milanese-style cone in a paper cone and serve with the dipping sauce .
Once ready, it's advisable to consume the Milanese-style cone immediately, but if you prefer, you can store it for a couple of days in the refrigerator, keeping in mind that the texture will change.
To create more exciting meatballs, use different types of meat, even mixing them if you prefer, such as beef, pork, and chicken, just to give you an idea, your Milanese-style cone will be even more tantalizing!

