name:
Cuoppo di cheese and flowers
ingredients:
Zucchini flowers: 16
Water: 1cup(220 g)- lukewarm
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(15 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
Sugar: 1 ½tsp(6 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Caciocavallo cheese: 0.8lb(360 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Eggs: 3

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the cartoccio of cheese and flowers, start with the batter for the zucchini flowers. Dissolve the yeast in a little lukewarm water taken from the indicated amount . Then, in a bowl with the flour, pour the water first, mixing with a whisk and then add salt, sugar, and the diluted yeast. Obtain a smooth and lump-free batter .
Cover with plastic wrap and let rise at room temperature for about half an hour . In the meantime, clean the flowers. Detach the stem , and the peduncles
and finally the internal bud . Set aside for a moment and take care of the caciocavallo. Slice it to a thickness of 1.18 inches and remove the rind . Finally, cut into cubes of 1.18 inches .
Heat the oil to 338°F-356°F in a large saucepan, ideally measuring the temperature with a thermometer. Then proceed with breading the cheese. Dip the cubes first in the beaten eggs , then in flour , and again in eggs .
Lastly, coat in breadcrumbs . Gradually place the cubes on a small tray and set them aside for a moment . Then fry the flowers first. Remove the plastic wrap from the bubbly batter .
Completely immerse a couple of flowers using tongs or a fork and then dip them in the oil . After a few minutes, when they become puffed up, the first flowers will be golden. Drain them on paper towels and cook all the others, salting them lightly .
When they are all ready, proceed to fry the cheese, which should also be fried a few pieces at a time . As soon as the cubes are golden, drain on paper towels and cook all the others . Assemble your cartoccio of cheese and flowers by inserting some mixed pieces and serve while still piping hot !
It is recommended to consume the cartoccio of cheese and flowers as soon as it's ready. Freezing or any kind of storage is not recommended to avoid losing its crispiness.
Enrich your batter with herbs or spices to make your cartoccio of cheese and flowers even tastier!

