name:
Savory Vegetarian Eclairs
ingredients:
Eggs: 4.2oz(120 g)- (approximately 2 medium)
Water: ¼cup(62 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(62 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(55 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.625cup(77 g)
Fine salt: ½tsp(3 g)
Sugar: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Zucchini: 2cups(250 g)
Eggplant: 0.7lb(300 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 12.3oz(350 g)
Ricotta di bufala cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- shaved
Basil: 15leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 1filo
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the savory vegetarian éclairs, start with the choux pastry. In a saucepan, heat water, milk , sugar , salt
and then butter . Once it reaches a boil, add the flour at once . Stir the roux well with a spatula. Work for 2-3 minutes or until a white film forms at the bottom of the pan and the mixture pulls away from the sides .
Transfer the mixture to a bowl and then add the eggs, one at a time, while stirring with the spatula to incorporate them gradually . Incorporate slowly, it will take a bit of patience . When the dough is smooth and consistent ,
you can transfer it to a piping bag with a 12mm serrated nozzle . Form 12 éclairs, about 4-5 inches long, on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , making sure to space them apart. Bake the éclairs in a static oven, preheated to 430°F, for 15 minutes. Then lower to 355°F and continue for another 15-20 minutes leaving the valve open. Once ready, let them cool completely .
In the meantime, take care of the vegetables: wash and dry them thoroughly, then remove the ends from zucchini and eggplants . Cut them into sticks as thin as possible (14-15).
Pat dry with paper towels and then coat the sticks in flour . Shake off the excess flour using a sieve and then fry in hot oil at 355°F for a couple of minutes .
or until they are golden and crispy , drain on paper towels . Move on to the tomatoes, cut them in half
and place them in a bowl garnishing with salt, pepper, oil , and hand-torn basil leaves , mix and move on to the garnish. Cut the éclairs in half
fill them with the cherry tomatoes, placing them on one side only , the ricotta placed in a piping bag with a 0.59-inch plain nozzle , and then the crispy vegetables salted just before filling the éclairs .
Garnish with Parmesan shavings , close and continue this way with all of them. Here are your savory vegetarian éclairs ready to enjoy .
Once the savory vegetarian éclairs are ready, it is best to consume them immediately and not store them as they lose their texture. If perfectly cooked, thus completely free of moisture, the éclairs can be stored without problems for several days in a paper bag and up to a week in a tin box.
The éclair trend has been booming for a while, thanks to pastry chefs who decided to relaunch the product garnishing it with colorful and varied creams and glazes. They're not only delicious; they're also beautiful! While for the sweets you can go wild with glazes, creams, fruits, and jams, in our version, the savory vegetarian éclairs couldn't miss colorful vegetables and a soft and creamy element: ricotta is ideal, plain or as a base for imaginative savory mousses. So have fun creating the most delicious and enticing mixes each time!

