name:
Tricolor pasta
ingredients:
Whole grain egg fettuccine pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ¾cup(280 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1- small
Basil: 4leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Zucchini: 4cups(450 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)- to be grated
Pine nuts: 3tbsp(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6.1tbsp(90 g)
Basil: 3tbsp(15 g)
Crescenza cheese: 5.6oz(160 g)
Whole milk: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the tricolor pasta, first heat a drizzle of oil in a pan and sauté the garlic clove with the whole chili pepper for a few minutes , then add the cherry tomatoes cut in half , close with the lid and cook on low heat for about 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, bring a pot of water to a boil for the pasta and prepare the zucchini pesto: wash the zucchinis and remove the ends, then cut them in half crosswise and remove only the green part that you will use to make the pesto . Transfer the zucchini skin to a tall, narrow container, add the oil , the basil leaves ,
the pine nuts , and the grated Parmesan cheese . Blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream and season with salt.
Pour the zucchini pesto into another pan and set aside for the moment . When the cherry tomatoes are cooked, turn off the heat, season with salt, and set aside . At this point, the water for the pasta should be boiling, so salt it and cook the tagliatelle for 2 minutes less than the time indicated on the package .
Meanwhile, prepare the crescenza cream: place the cheese in a tall, narrow container, add the milk , and blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a fluid but still consistent cream . Season with salt and set aside.
After the tagliatelle cooking time, drain them directly into the pan with the zucchini pesto , add at least a ladle of pasta cooking water and mix well to combine everything over medium-low heat .
Now you are ready to plate: spread a spoonful of crescenza cream on the bottom of the serving plate , place a nest of tagliatelle in the center and add a few cherry tomatoes . Finally, season with a grind of black pepper, a drizzle of oil, and garnish with a fresh basil leaf... your tricolor pasta is ready to be served !
The tricolor pasta can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
If you have any leftover pasta, here's a tasty idea to reuse it: create nests of tagliatelle with a fork, dip them in beaten egg with some Parmesan, and fry them in plenty of hot oil! If you prefer, you can replace the fresh cherry tomatoes with sun-dried tomatoes in oil or make a pea and mint pesto instead of the zucchini one.

