name:
Pasta with ricotta cream, asparagus, and pistachios
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Asparagus: 0.7lb(320 g)- to clean
Pistachios: ½cup(70 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1.6cups(400 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Nutmeg: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 13 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare pasta with ricotta cream, asparagus, and pistachios, first take care of cleaning the asparagus: peel them while leaving the tips intact and removing the lower white part , which is the toughest. Cut them into crosswise slices
and split the tips in half lengthwise . Place a pot filled with salted water on the stove, which will be used to cook the pasta. In a large pan, heat olive oil with a garlic clove , and as soon as it starts to sizzle, add the asparagus
and the pistachios , cook over medium heat for 5 minutes, stirring often. Then salt, pepper , remove the garlic clove , and set aside.
Meanwhile, cook the pasta in boiling water for the time indicated on the package. Continue with the dressing: in a pitcher (or a tall glass for a mixer), pour the ricotta, the fresh liquid cream , blend the mixture with an immersion blender ,
then add a couple of ladles of pasta cooking water to make the cream smoother and more velvety. Salt, pepper, and season with nutmeg . Finally, flavor with freshly chopped parsley .
Stir the cream and pour it into a large pot, add another 2 ladles of pasta cooking water ; then directly drain the pasta into the pot .
Add the asparagus and pistachio dressing, taking care to set aside a little to garnish each serving plate . Stir to flavor; if it turns out dry, add more cooking water at your discretion. Serve the pasta with ricotta cream, asparagus, and pistachios immediately, distributing the reserved dressing on the plate (20-21).
Pasta with ricotta cream, asparagus, and pistachios can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for a couple of days.
Try replacing the asparagus with fava beans or peas; it will be equally delicious. Want to add an extra aromatic touch to this luscious first course? Add a few tablespoons of classic pesto!

