name:
Zuccotto
ingredients:
Eggs: 9.7oz(275 g)- (about 5 medium) at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 0.6cup(75 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Potato starch: 0.6cup(75 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(450 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 1tbsp(10 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(120 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 1.4oz(40 g)
Candied orange: 1.5oz(40 g)
Alchermes: 0.8cup(200 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note plus 3 hours of resting and cooling of the sponge cake

instructions:
To prepare the zuccotto, first, make the sponge cake. Pour the eggs into the bowl of a stand mixer. Add the vanilla bean seeds and a pinch of salt . Start whipping, and when the eggs become frothy, slowly add the sugar .
Meanwhile, butter and flour a 9-inch pan thoroughly, and as soon as the egg and sugar mixture becomes pale, swollen, and frothy , turn off the machine. Sift the flour and potato starch into it and then gently fold with a spatula, making rotating movements from bottom to top .
Pour everything into the pan and use a spatula to level the surface . Bake the sponge cake in a preheated static oven at 320°F on the lowest shelf for about 50 minutes. Avoid opening the oven during this time, and before removing the cake, always check the cooking with a toothpick test, as each oven bakes differently. In fact, inserting the toothpick in the center of the cake, it should come out completely dry. Once cooked, remove the sponge cake from the oven .
Wait a few minutes, then unmold it by turning it upside down and let it cool completely on a wire rack . At this point, sift the ricotta into a bowl , then add the sugar .
and mix with a whisk . Separately whip the cream and gently fold it into the ricotta mixture, mixing from bottom to top so as not to deflate it .
At this point, transfer about 1/3 of the mixture, or about 7 oz, into another bowl . Then add the candied orange cubes to the bowl containing more filling and fold them into the rest, mixing with the spatula . Place in a piping bag.
Instead, sift the cocoa powder into the bowl with less filling and add the chocolate chips . Mix everything and place it in another piping bag.
When the sponge cake is cooled, remove the top crust , then turn it upside down and cut it into slices about 0.4 inches thick . At this point, get a zuccotto mold, or a glass bowl, 6.7 inches in diameter and 4.3 inches in height. Arrange the freshly cut slices inside, making them adhere well to the edges .
and fully line the bowl . At this point, using a brush, lightly soak the inside with alchermes . Pour the white cream inside, ensuring to leave a hollow in the center ,
which you will widen and smooth using a spoon . Then place the ricotta and chocolate cream inside the newly created hole and level the surface with a spoon .
All that's left is to seal the zuccotto. Place the sponge cake slices on top and trim the excess with a knife . Gradually place the slices to entirely cover the base . Then, using the brush, soak the base as well.
Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least three hours. After this time, turn it over on a plate and remove the bowl .
Dust first with cocoa powder and then with powdered sugar . Slice and serve your zuccotto .
The zuccotto keeps for 2 days in the refrigerator. Alternatively, it can be frozen in the mold.
Prepare the sponge cake a day in advance to save time. Also, this way, you can be sure it won't crumble when cut. For this recipe, you'll use about half of the sponge cake, but it's advisable not to halve the dose because it will be more complicated to clean it and get slices long enough to line the mold. With the leftovers, you can make Australian Lamingtons , Cake pops or enjoy it for breakfast with milk!

