name:
Banana and Peanut Bundt Cake
ingredients:
Bananas: 1.6cups(240 g)- The ripe pulp of 2 bananas
Peanuts: ¼cup(35 g)- toasted and unsalted
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Rice flour: ¾cup(100 g)
Brown sugar: ½cup(110 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2 at room temperature)
Buttermilk: ¾cup(170 g)- at room temperature
Baking powder: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Chia seeds: 1tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp
Dark chocolate: 2.5oz(70 g)
Brown sugar: 5 ½tbsp(70 g)
Peanuts: 0.07cup(10 g)- toasted and unsalted
Water: 2cups(140 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour for the cake to cool

instructions:
To make the banana and peanut bundt cake, first soak the chia seeds in the buttermilk for 4-5 minutes (1-2). Meanwhile, chop the peanuts with a knife and set them aside .
Mash the bananas with a fork to obtain a puree . Meanwhile, in a bowl, pour in the eggs, the sugar
and the salt . Use electric beaters to mix the ingredients until the mixture is light, then add the banana puree .
Continue to mix with the beaters and pour in the buttermilk with the chia seeds . Then add the dry ingredients (flour and baking powder) by sifting them through a sieve . Finally, add the chopped peanuts
and mix for another minute . Grease a bundt cake mold with a diameter of 9 inches and 4 inches in height and pour the batter inside .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F on the middle rack for 40 minutes. At the end of baking, remove the bundt cake from the oven and let it cool for a few minutes. Then remove the cake from the mold by flipping it onto a wire rack and let it cool for an hour at room temperature. Meanwhile, finely chop the chocolate with a knife and transfer it to a bowl.
Pour the water and sugar into a saucepan without stirring, bring to a boil, and let it simmer for about 3-4 minutes .
Pour the syrup over the chocolate and emulsify the sauce with an immersion blender, being careful not to create air bubbles , then pour the obtained glaze over the bundt cake .
Chop the peanuts for decoration and distribute them over the surface of the cake . The banana and peanut bundt cake is now ready to be served !
The banana and peanut bundt cake keeps for 3-4 days under a glass dome. It can be frozen before the chocolate topping is added.
We recommend using very ripe bananas, even if they're already darkened. It's possible to replace the peanuts with other nuts like walnuts, almonds, or cashews or with dark chocolate chips. As an alternative to buttermilk, you can use skim milk or low-fat yogurt.
If you're looking for a lactose-free version, we recommend our Light Banana Bread recipe!

