name:
Puff pastries with agretti and nduja
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)
Friar's beard (agretti): 0.5lb(250 g)
Nduja: 2tbsp(30 g)
Smoked scamorza cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the puff pastries with agretti and nduja, start with the How to Clean and Cook Agretti . Remove the base with a knife (you will get about 8 oz usable) and then boil them for a couple of minutes in hot water . As soon as they are slightly softened, dip them in a bowl of ice water to stop the cooking, and the color will remain bright .
Meanwhile, you can crush one unpeeled garlic clove with the back of a knife and place it in a pan with a little oil . Then, as soon as the base is hot, drain the agretti and add them to the pan .
Sauté them well over high heat for a couple of minutes; season with salt and pepper and mix well . Set them aside to cool and turn to the scamorza cheese. Cut it into small cubes and set these aside as well . Cut the puff pastry into strips first
and then into squares to obtain 30 pieces of 2x2 inches each . As you go, place the squares on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and press gently in the middle with your fingertips . Place a small heap of agretti ,
then a few cubes of scamorza cheese and continue with all the others . Your puff pastries are ready to bake in a static oven, preheated to 392°F, for 10-12 minutes .
Take the tray out of the oven and place a bit of nduja on the puff pastries with a teaspoon until they are all filled . Your puff pastries with agretti and nduja are ready to be enjoyed hot or even cold !
It is recommended to consume the puff pastries with agretti and nduja on the same day, as the puff pastry may dry out too much. Freezing is not recommended.
As an alternative to scamorza, you can use milder cheeses like asiago or emmental to enhance the flavor of your puff pastries with agretti and nduja!

