name:
Spelt crackers
ingredients:
Spelt flour: 2cups(250 g)
Dry white wine: 2.7oz(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Butter: 1 ¾tbsp(25 g)- cold from the fridge
Thyme: 3sprigs
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
Water: to taste
Coarse salt: 1 ⅓tsp(8 g)- (optional)
Poppy seeds: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)
Sunflower seeds: ½tbsp(5 g)
Flax seed: ⅓tbsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the spelt crackers, start by pouring the spelt flour into a large bowl, add the fine salt and fresh thyme leaves and mix well. Add the butter
and blend it into the flour mixture by crumbling it with your hands , then pour in the white wine and olive oil and continue to work the mixture with your hands.
Once the dough is nice and compact, transfer it to a lightly floured work surface and roll it out with a rolling pin until you get a sheet measuring 11x9 inches with a thickness of about 3/16 inch. Prick the dough with a dough docker or otherwise with the prongs of a fork, then cut it into squares about 1.5 inches on each side using a fluted edge pastry wheel : you should get about 38 crackers in total.
At this point, combine the poppy seeds, coarse salt (if you prefer, you can omit it or reduce the quantity) , sunflower seeds , and flax seeds in a small bowl and mix with a teaspoon.
Transfer the dough squares to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and brush them with a little water , then sprinkle the surface with the seed and coarse salt mix, pressing gently with your hands to make it adhere . Bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for about 25 minutes, on the middle shelf of the oven. Once cooked, let them cool, then your spelt crackers will be ready to be crunched !
Wine spelt crackers can be stored at room temperature, inside a jar, for about a week. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can substitute spelt flour with whole wheat flour and further flavor your crackers by adding turmeric or curry powder to the dough!

