name:
Coffee crepe
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1.67cups(400 g)
Type 00 flour: 2.8cups(350 g)
Coffee: 19tbsp(100 g)- from the moka pot
Eggs: 3
Fine salt: 1pinch
Butter: to taste- to grease the crepe pan
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Dark chocolate: 1.75oz(50 g)
Dark chocolate: 5.25oz(150 g)
Coffee: 2.5oz(70 g)- from the moka pot

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus resting time in the refrigerator (30 min.)

instructions:
To prepare the coffee crepes, first make the coffee with a moka pot: you will need 200 g (about 7 oz). Pour half of the coffee (100 g, about 3.5 oz) into a pitcher where you'll have already poured the milk, and set aside the rest for the sauce. In another bowl, break the eggs, then add the coffee-diluted milk and mix to combine everything . Then sift the flour directly into the bowl
and mix with a whisk . Add a pinch of salt and mix vigorously again to obtain a smooth and homogeneous batter. Cover with plastic wrap and let rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the filling: coarsely chop 50 g (about 1.75 oz) of dark chocolate and add it to the ricotta . Then add the granulated sugar ,
mix with a spatula and, once you have a homogeneous mixture , transfer it to a pastry bag and refrigerate.
Now move on to the sauce: chop the other portion of dark chocolate and heat the remaining coffee until it almost boils . Pour the coffee over the chocolate
and stir until it melts . Set aside and don't worry if the cream tends to solidify; simply reheat it before pouring it over the crepes. Now it's time to cook your crepes: heat a crepe pan or a non-stick skillet, grease it with a pat of butter , and pour a ladle of batter .
Rotate the pan to distribute the batter evenly and cook for about a minute . When the typical bubbles form on the surface and the edges come away, flip them and cook on the other side for about half a minute . Continue in this way until all the crepes are cooked.
Move on to the filling: take the ricotta cream and squeeze a portion inside the crepe, making two loops , then fold it first in half and then again in half
to form a triangle . Fill all the others in the same way, heat the chocolate sauce, and use it to decorate your coffee crepes before serving them (26-27).
Coffee crepes can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day. Before serving, heat the sauce to decorate them. If you used all fresh ingredients, you can freeze the crepes individually or alternate them with a piece of parchment paper.
Add some hazelnut crumbs for the final decoration.
Instead of ricotta, you can use Greek yogurt and flavor with vanilla seeds!

