name:
Veal and Vegetable Foil Packets
ingredients:
Veal: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (cubed meat)
New potatoes: 0.75lb(350 g)
Carrots: 1 ⅛cup(150 g)- baby
Balsamic vinegar: 3tbsp(45 g)
Acacia honey: 4.3tsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Thyme: a few- sprig

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the veal and vegetable foil packets, start with the vegetables. Thoroughly wash both the potatoes and the carrots. Then put a pot of water on to boil, and once it reaches a boil, immerse the potatoes . Meanwhile, slightly trim the carrot greens . After cooking the potatoes for 9-10 minutes, add the carrots to the pot and cook for another 3-4 minutes .
Then drain everything and cut some of the carrots in half lengthwise and quarter some potatoes .
Set them aside for a moment and move on to the meat. In a fairly large saucepan, pour some oil and add the whole garlic and chili . Let it heat well, then add the meat cubes . Sear the meat well by browning it at high heat and stirring often .
then remove the garlic and chili and add the potatoes and carrots . After a quick sauté, season with salt, wait a moment for the water to evaporate, and deglaze with balsamic vinegar .
Immediately add the honey , a pinch of black pepper, and mix well . Then spoon the mixture onto 4 sheets of parchment paper
garnishing with a few sprigs of thyme . Wrap them like candies and finally roll them in another sheet of aluminum foil .
Bake the foil packets in a preheated static oven at 320°F for about 15 minutes . Your veal and vegetable foil packets are ready , plate them and let your guests unwrap their portion !
Ideally, the veal and vegetable foil packets should be consumed as soon as they are ready. However, you can store them in the refrigerator for up to two days, but be aware that the meat may become a bit tough. The vegetables can be cooked a few hours in advance and covered with plastic wrap to prevent discoloration. Freezing is not recommended.
The balsamic vinegar will lose some of its sharp acidity during cooking, so even those who don't particularly like it will surely appreciate the aroma. For the honey, you might choose more flavorful varieties like chestnut or sweeter ones like wildflower. Finally, for an extra touch of flavor, add some halved borettane onions or shallots!

