name:
Sugar-free mini plumcakes
ingredients:
Dates: ½cup(90 g)- pitted
Stark apple: 9.2oz(260 g)- approximately 2
Type 0 flour: 1 ¼cup(160 g)
Oranges: 2
Vegetable oil: ⅓cup(90 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(60 g)
Raisins: 1tbsp(10 g)
Eggs: 1.9oz(55 g)- (approximately 1 medium)
Baking powder: 1.7tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Vegetable oil: to taste
Type 0 flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the sugar-free mini plumcakes, first wash the apples, then set aside half covered with plastic wrap for the final decoration. Peel and slice the remaining apples into slices about 1/8 inch thick and place them in a large bowl. Grate the zest of an untreated orange and set aside ; then squeeze the juice from this grated orange and another one .
From the squeezed orange juice, use 3.5 oz for the batter by pouring it into the bowl with the apple slices and set aside the remaining juice: it will be used to brush the plumcakes once baked. Mix the apples well with the orange juice and set aside. Place the pitted dates in a tall, narrow container ,
add the previously washed raisins , the vegetable oil , the milk
and the grated orange zest , then blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth and uniform cream .
Transfer the obtained cream into a bowl, add the egg , a pinch of salt, and mix with electric beaters . Sift the flour and baking powder into the bowl
and continue mixing the batter with electric beaters to combine everything . At this point, add the apple slices flavored with orange juice and incorporate them into the batter by mixing with a spatula .
Oil and flour 6 mini plumcake molds of 2.75x1.5 inches and 1.75 inches in height, then fill them with the batter up to 0.5 inches from the edge . Garnish the surface with the reserved half apple, peeled and sliced , and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 25 minutes.
Meanwhile, pour the reserved orange juice into a saucepan and reduce over medium heat for 2-3 minutes . Once baked, remove the mini plumcakes from the oven and let them cool, then remove them from the mold and brush them with the reduced orange juice . Your sugar-free mini plumcakes are ready to be enjoyed !
Sugar-free mini plumcakes can be stored at room temperature for 2-3 days under a glass dome or well covered with plastic wrap. They can be frozen after being cooked and allowed to cool.
Replace cow's milk with almond milk for a lactose-free version. For a more intense flavor, you can add a pinch of cinnamon or ginger powder to the batter!

