name:
Fake veg ramen
ingredients:
Eggs: 2- organic
Red spring onions: 1
Swiss chard: - a few leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Dried cannellini beans: 0.625cup(125 g)
Kombu seaweed: 1- piece
Eggs: 1
Egg yolks: 2
Type 00 flour: 1cup(140 g)
Asparagus: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Carrots: 1.4cups(150 g)
Snap peas: 1cup(160 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 2

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 1 day soaking of cannellini beans

instructions:
To prepare the fake veg ramen, start with the cannellini bean broth. These need to be rehydrated for 24 hours, so soak them in fresh water . The next day, drain, rinse them, and place them in a large pot . Cover with plenty of fresh water and add the kombu seaweed .
Let the beans simmer for about 75 minutes, making sure they are sufficiently soft. Then remove the seaweed and season with salt. Blend everything and strain to obtain a sort of broth; keep it warm by adding more water as needed .
In the meantime, you can focus on the fresh pasta. Break the eggs into a bowl where you've poured the flour and, using a fork, start mixing . When it gets thicker, use your hands and transfer it to a work surface, kneading for a few more minutes. If needed, you can add a pinch of flour .
Finally, wrap the dough ball in plastic wrap and let it rest for at least 30 minutes at room temperature . During this time, you can work on the vegetables. Start with the asparagus: trim the woody part and then peel the rest using a peeler .
Cut them in half lengthwise and then into 1-inch pieces, slicing diagonally . Move on to the carrots. These should also be peeled and trimmed , and finally sliced into rounds, about 1/8 inch thick, on a diagonal cut .
Finish with the sugar snap peas. After rinsing, trim them and cut them diagonally into 3/4-inch pieces . Move to the stove. Heat a pan with some oil. Heat it along with cleaned and crushed garlic and then the chili peppers . Add the carrots, sugar snap peas ,
and then the asparagus . Season with salt and pepper and sauté over high heat for 4-5 minutes, stirring occasionally . Finally, transfer the vegetables to a bowl, removing the garlic and chili peppers .
Meanwhile, boil the eggs; these are not the classic Hard Boiled Eggs , but rather soft-boiled. This means that the white will be fully cooked while the yolk is slightly creamier. So immerse them in a saucepan with plenty of water . After 6-7 minutes from when the water starts to boil, turn off the heat and cool briefly under running water. Then peel and cut in half with a smooth knife (23-24).
At this point, you have everything ready, so return to the fresh pasta. Take it and, after lightly flouring it with a pinch of semolina, pass it through a pasta machine. It's better if you start by cutting a few pieces of pasta instead of using the whole dough. Then pass the dough through the rollers starting from the widest setting until reaching the second to last (for our machine, this is number 7). Pass the same strip of pasta through two more times, so the sheet will be compact . Then cut the sheets to get rectangles and let them dry in the air for a few minutes . Sprinkle with semolina and fold a couple of times .
Finally, cut into strips of 1/8 inch and unravel forming nests. When all the nests are ready, proceed with cooking them in the blended bean broth that you have brought to a boil .
Cook the tagliolini for 2-3 minutes . In the dishes, pour some of the broth along with thinly sliced chard leaves . Then add the pasta .
And garnish with half an egg and a few spoonfuls of the sautéed vegetables , then the cleaned and sliced scallion , and finally garnish with a pinch of black pepper. Your fake veg ramen is ready, enjoy .
To prepare the fake veg ramen, you can do it by organizing the timing well and carrying out preparations in advance. For example, the cannellini broth can be cooked and then stored for 2-3 days. The vegetables can also be cooked 1-2 days in advance but they will lose color and consistency. Finally, the pasta can be frozen. Once the ramen is assembled, it should be consumed immediately. Other forms of preservation are not recommended.
How to give an oriental touch to your fake veg ramen? Add a few slices of ginger to the vegetable sauté and a bit of soy sauce to the broth. Chives will also beautifully flavor your ramen dish. For a completely vegan and delicious version, you can replace the tagliolini with rice noodles and the egg with cubes of seitan or tofu, both to be sautéed in a pan with the vegetables.

