name:
Lemon Truffles
ingredients:
Almond flour: 1 ¾cup(175 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(125 g)
Egg whites: 2tbsp(35 g)- (about 1)
Lemon peel: 2
Lemon juice: 3tsp(15 g)- (about 4 teaspoons)
Fine salt: ½tsp
White chocolate: 2 ½cups(400 g)
White sprinkles: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Makes: 22 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 2 hours of resting in the refrigerator and 15 min. at room temperature

instructions:
To prepare the lemon truffles, pour the almond flour into a mixer equipped with steel blades, add the powdered sugar and salt , and blend for a few seconds. Now add the egg white ,
the zest of 2 lemons and the lemon juice , then run the mixer again until you obtain a soft but compact mixture .
Transfer the mixture onto a sheet of parchment paper , shape it slightly with your hands to form a loaf , then wrap it in parchment paper and place it in the refrigerator to rest for at least an hour.
After the cooling time has elapsed, take the mixture and form balls of about 15 g each, shaping them with your hands . Place the balls on a tray lined with parchment paper and let them cool in the refrigerator for another hour. Towards the end of the cooling time, proceed to temper the white chocolate: finely chop the chocolate with a knife
and divide it into 2 bowls, 270 g and 130 g . Melt the 270 g of chocolate in a bain-marie or microwave until it reaches a temperature of 113°F, then add the 130 g of chopped chocolate and stir to melt it completely until the mixture reaches a temperature of 84°F.
At this point, take the truffles from the refrigerator and dip them one at a time in the melted chocolate , then cover them evenly with sugar sprinkles and place them on a tray lined with parchment paper . Let them crystallize at room temperature for about 15 minutes, after which your delicious lemon truffles will be ready to be enjoyed !
Lemon truffles can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you want to enhance the citrus flavor of the truffles, you can add a few drops of natural lemon flavor. As an alternative to white chocolate, you can choose to use dark chocolate, to contrast the sweetness of the almond paste, or you can replace the sugar sprinkles with chopped almonds!

