name:
Vegan Spreadable Cheese
ingredients:
Tofu: 6.4oz(180 g)
Peeled almonds: 3.2oz(90 g)
Ground black pepper: 1 ½tsp
Pink peppercorn: 1 ½tsp
Fine salt: ½tsp
Water: 3tbsp(40 g)
Lemon juice: ¼tbsp(4 g)
Wild garlic: 1 ½tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 4 hours of resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
To make the vegan spreadable cheese, place the two types of pepper and the wild garlic in a mortar. Press well with the pestle to reduce the ingredients to powder and set aside the spice mixture obtained.
Place the tofu and almonds in the mixer, turn on the mixer to coarsely chop the ingredients and then pour in the water
and give it another spin of the blades to obtain a homogeneous mixture, at this point pour the lemon juice , salt , and a teaspoon of the spice mix . Stir to combine the mixture.
Line a round mold or a small baking dish with a diameter of 5 inches and with a rim about 2.5 inches high with plastic wrap, making it adhere well to the bottom and sides . Now fill the mold with the mixture pressing with the back of a spoon to compact it as best as possible.
Cover it with plastic wrap and let it firm up in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour. After the indicated time, retrieve the cream , remove the wrap on the surface
and turn the mold over onto a sheet of parchment paper , slide off the mold, remove the plastic wrap covering the block , then cover it with the remaining spice mix on both the surface and the sides .
Now wrap the mold again with plastic wrap and place the cheese back in the mold (19-20). Let it rest in the refrigerator for another hour, then unmold the cheese
Remove the wrap as well (22-23) and leave the vegan cheese in the fridge for 2 hours before serving it .
The vegan cheese keeps in the refrigerator for 3 days covered with plastic wrap.
It is possible to replace almonds with cashews or, for a stronger flavor, with unsalted peanuts. Wild garlic is a wild plant with a strong garlic aroma; if you can't find it, you can substitute it with a pinch of minced garlic.

