name:
Lemon Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Lemon peel: 1
White wine: 3tbsp(40 g)
Robiola cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Thyme: 1sprig
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Water: 6 ½cups(1.5 l)
Carrots: (80 g)
White onions: 2.8oz(80 g)- (already peeled)
Celery: 3oz(80 g)- (already peeled)
Lemons: 1- of medium size
Coarse salt: 1tsp
Ground black pepper: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 22 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes for the broth to cook

instructions:
To make the lemon risotto, first prepare the lemon-flavored vegetable broth: wash and clean the carrot, celery, and onion (the weights of the vegetables reported in the recipe refer to the cleaned vegetables) place them in a saucepan, add the lemon (preferably untreated), washed and cut in half , season with peppercorns and salt.
cover with water and cook for 30 minutes from boiling. Once the broth is ready, strain it through a sieve and keep it warm in the pot. Toast the rice in a saucepan for 3-4 minutes, without adding any seasoning and stirring often.
Deglaze with white wine , let it evaporate, and then continue cooking for about 16-18 minutes, adding the hot vegetable broth one ladleful at a time , making sure to wait for each addition of broth to be well absorbed before pouring more liquid. When the rice is cooked, turn off the heat and stir in the grated cheese
and the robiola cheese . Scent with thyme leaves , grated lemon zest
and pour in another ladleful of broth. Stir to combine and finally add freshly ground pepper to taste . Serve the lemon risotto immediately, hot .
Lemon risotto can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for one day. Freezing is not recommended.
We recommend serving the risotto immediately because it might dry out as it does not contain butter.
If you love crunchy notes, add some toasted almond flakes to garnish the dish.
Simple and elegant, lemon risotto can also be proposed as a first vegetarian course for Christmas!

