name:
3 Ingredient Cake
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 1lb(450 g)- (at 55%)
Butter: 1cup(220 g)- (at room temperature)
Eggs: 8.6oz(245 g)- (about 5 medium at room temperature)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.6cup(150 g)
Berries: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + 3 h of cooling

instructions:
To make the 3 ingredient cake, first finely chop the 55% dark chocolate with a knife (if you use one with a higher percentage, you will need to adjust the amount of butter and eggs to compensate for the fat content) , melt it in a double boiler , also add the butter in pieces .
Mix with a spatula to help dissolve and blend the ingredients well . Once ready, let it cool for about 5 minutes. Meanwhile, pour the eggs into a bowl and beat them with an electric mixer , they should be light and frothy , it will take about 5 minutes.
Now slowly pour the cooled melted chocolate into the bowl with the beaten eggs , as you pour in the chocolate, mix the batter from bottom to top to get a well-blended mixture . Line the bottom of an 8-inch diameter cake pan, to do this cut the shape on a sheet of parchment paper,
then butter the bottom of the pan and adhere the parchment paper . Pour the batter into the pan and level the surface with a spatula .
Now place the cake pan on a baking sheet and pour room temperature water up to half the height of the pan . Bake for 5 minutes in a preheated static oven at 410°F in the middle rack, then cover with aluminum foil and continue baking for another 15 minutes. Once baking is complete, remove the cake from the oven and let it cool at room temperature for a couple of hours . Then place it in the refrigerator to set for at least 1 hour. After this time, you can unmold the cake: gently run the blade of a knife around the entire edge of the cake, then flip it onto a serving plate. Now proceed with the decoration: in a well-chilled bowl, beat the fresh liquid cream with an electric mixer
until it's well whipped . At this point, spread the cream on the surface creating a wavy pattern and garnish with red fruits to taste .
The 3 ingredient cake keeps for up to 3 days in the refrigerator. It's possible to freeze the cake after baking.
If you love to dare and experiment with new flavor combinations, try adding 0.1 oz of salt (or salt flakes) to the mixture, you will get a surprising and pleasant sweet-salty contrast. If you like, you can flavor the cake with orange zest, liqueurs, or vanilla. If using chocolate with a higher cocoa percentage, you will need to adjust the butter and egg amounts to compensate for the fat content.

