name:
Agnello kleftiko
ingredients:
Leg of lamb: 2.9lbs(1.3 kg)- (to be deboned)
Potatoes: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Feta cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Red onions: 1
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Lemon juice: 5.1oz(150 g)- (about 3)
Dry white wine: 4.1oz(120 g)
Thyme: 3sprigs
Juniper berries: 4

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 4 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 30 min. for marinating

instructions:
To prepare lamb kleftiko, first clean the leg of lamb: remove the outer layer of fat and connective tissue , remove the bone and cut the meat into cubes of about 1 ½ to 2 inches : you should end up with about 2 pounds of deboned and cleaned meat.
Transfer the meat cubes into a bowl and add the lemon juice , the white wine , the thyme leaves ,
the juniper berries and a grind of pepper , then mix well, cover with plastic wrap and place the bowl in the refrigerator to marinate for about 30 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the other ingredients: peel and slice the onion into fairly thick slices ; wash and peel the potatoes, then cut them into pieces about 1 inch in size to prevent them from falling apart during cooking . Finally, wash and cut the tomatoes into pieces the same size as the potatoes . Mix all the vegetables in a bowl and set aside for now.
After the marinating time has elapsed, remove the lamb with a slotted spoon and transfer it to a larger bowl, thus eliminating the excess marinade . Add the prepared vegetable mix and season with the oil , rosemary , salt, and pepper, then mix well.
Finally, cut the feta into cubes and cut 8 sheets of parchment paper measuring 13x14 inches. Place 4 sheets on the work surface and distribute the lamb and vegetable mix equally in the center of each one , then crumble the feta on top, dividing it among the 4 portions .
Now close the parchment paper sheet as if it were a gift package by folding the top and bottom flaps towards the center to cover the content , and do the same with the two side flaps. Place the package thus obtained in the center of another sheet of parchment paper and close it the same way by folding the flaps towards the center .
Once you've obtained another package , tie it with kitchen string, securing it in the middle with a knot, and place the parcels on a baking sheet . Bake in a preheated static oven at 300°F for about 4 hours, after which your lamb kleftiko will be ready to be served hot ... once you open the foil, mix the contents to blend all the flavors well!
Lamb kleftiko can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Due to prolonged low-temperature cooking, the meat will appear rather dark on the surface, but don't worry, this is normal and doesn't mean it's burned... that's why it's advisable to mix everything before tasting!
Are you a fan of Greek cuisine? Then don't miss out on the classic Moussaka recipe!

