name:
Baked pasta with artichokes and scamorza cheese
ingredients:
Gluten-free Penne Rigate pasta: 14.1oz(400 g)
Purple artichokes: 1.1lbs(480 g)- to be cleaned
Smoked scamorza cheese: 9oz(255 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Rice flour: ⅓cup(60 g)- gluten-free
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To make the baked pasta with artichokes and scamorza, first How to clean artichokes : remove the tougher outer leaves , cut off the tips , divide them in half ,
and remove the inner fuzz with a teaspoon , then slice the artichokes into fairly thin strips . Now place a pot full of salted water on the heat and bring it to a boil; it will be used for cooking the pasta. In a pan, heat the olive oil with the peeled garlic clove ,
add the artichokes , a pinch of salt, and sauté them over low heat for about 10 minutes. Once cooked, remove the garlic clove and set them aside . Cut the scamorza into irregular cubes .
Now cook the pasta 3 minutes less than the time indicated on the package; it should be quite al dente . Meanwhile, prepare the gluten-free béchamel: in a saucepan, heat the milk , in another, melt the butter
and when it is completely melted, add the rice flour and mix with a whisk to avoid lumps . When the milk is about to boil, add it to the roux made , mix everything avoiding lumps, and once it reaches the right consistency (quite fluid),
remove it from the heat, add the grated nutmeg , and salt . At this point, the pasta will be cooked, drain it, and put it in a bowl ,
add about three generous tablespoons of béchamel , about two tablespoons of artichokes , and mix. In an oval baking dish about 12 x 9 inches, pour some béchamel on the bottom ,
add half of all the ingredients: pasta , artichokes, smoked scamorza , parmesan
and béchamel . Continue to assemble the pie , using up all the various ingredients and finishing with the artichokes
and the scamorza . Season with pepper to taste and bake the pasta in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C) for 25 minutes. Once cooked, take the baking dish out of the oven and serve the baked artichoke and scamorza pasta piping hot and stringy !
The baked artichoke and scamorza pasta can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of a couple of days, covered with plastic wrap. If you like, you can also freeze it once cooked, or raw, but in this case, it should be baked once defrosted. It is not recommended to assemble the pie without cooking it, as the artichokes could darken and release water. You can prepare the gluten-free béchamel in advance and keep it covered with plastic wrap in contact.
If you love spicy notes, enrich the pasta with a pinch of paprika or scent the artichokes with aromatic herbs to taste, such as thyme or parsley.

