name:
Baked pasta with fennel and béchamel
ingredients:
Whole wheat Fusilli pasta: 7oz(200 g)
Fennel: 1.3lbs(590 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)- to grate
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.3cup(50 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the baked pasta with fennel and béchamel, bring a pot of plenty of water to a boil to cook the pasta. Salt when boiling. Then move on to the fennel: remove the top and bottom ends, remove the outermost layer , and slice the fennel into thin slices . You should get about 290 grams (10 oz) of cleaned fennel. Set aside.
Prepare the béchamel: heat the milk in a saucepan and melt the butter over low heat in a separate pan . When the butter is melted, add the flour all at once
and mix well to avoid lumps until you obtain a golden roux. At this point, add the salt and grated nutmeg (or you can add them once the béchamel is ready),
then pour the milk in a thin stream while continuing to stir with a whisk . Thicken the cream over medium heat, without stopping stirring, until you get a smooth and uniform béchamel . Turn off the heat and set it aside for the moment. When the water for cooking the pasta comes to a boil, salt it and cook the pasta for about 8 minutes (you should cook it al dente) .
Meanwhile, heat a drizzle of oil in a pan along with a crushed clove of garlic in its skin, add the fennel , season with salt and pepper , and cook over medium heat for about 5 minutes so that they remain crunchy. After the indicated time, remove the garlic, drain the pasta directly into the pan with the fennel, mix well and sauté everything for 1 minute over medium heat.
Grease 4 cocottes with a diameter of 10 cm (4 inches) and cover the base with a spoonful of béchamel , then fill the molds halfway with pasta and fennel and add another 2 tablespoons of béchamel to each cocotte .
Add more pasta until it reaches the edge of the molds and finish with plenty of béchamel, a grind of pepper, and a tablespoon of grated Parmesan cheese . Bake the cocottes in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C) for about 10 minutes until they are nicely golden on top. Your baked pasta with fennel and béchamel is ready to be served hot !
Baked pasta with fennel and béchamel can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can add fragrance to the baked pasta with fennel and béchamel by adding thyme or sage, or a pinch of chili pepper for those who love a spicy touch!

