name:
Sweet Lemons
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (1 medium)
Vegetable oil: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(60 g)
Baking powder: 1 ¾tsp(8 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Egg yolks: 2tbsp(30 g)- (from about 2 medium eggs)
Sugar: 5tbsp(60 g)
Whole milk: 0.625cup(150 g)
Cornstarch: 1.67tbsp(20 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(50 g)
Lemon juice: 3tbsp(45 g)
Water: 3.7tbsp(55 g)
Sugar: 6tsp(25 g)
Limoncello: 2oz(55 g)
Food coloring: to taste- yellow in gel (optional)
Lemons: to taste- the leaves

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus the cooling time of the various preparations

instructions:
To prepare the sweet lemons, first pour the eggs and sugar into a bowl . Beat them with the beaters for a few minutes , and when they are frothy, add the grated lemon zest
and the seed oil . Beat again with the beaters to mix all the ingredients , then add the milk
and continue beating until fully absorbed . Then sift the flour and baking powder into the mixture , and, given the softness of the dough, mix with a spatula .
Once you have a uniform mixture, transfer it to a floured surface and knead it with your hands for a few moments until you get a compact dough . If it is too soft at this stage, you can add up to 30 grams of flour. Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the fridge for at least an hour to an hour and a half.
Meanwhile, prepare the cream: squeeze the lemon and set the juice aside. Then, in a bowl, pour the egg yolks, add the sugar , and mix with a spatula until everything is combined.
Then add the cornstarch and mix again . At this point, add the lemon zest and juice (17-18).
Still using the spatula, stir and add the milk and cream . Stir again; then pour everything into a saucepan .
Move to the stove, continuing to stir constantly until it thickens . Then pour into a bowl , cover with contact plastic wrap , and let cool first at room temperature and then in the fridge for about 1 hour.
In the meantime, prepare the soak: pour water and sugar into a small pot , turn on the heat, and wait until the sugar is completely dissolved . Wait a few minutes and add the limoncello .
Then pour into a container and let cool completely in the fridge until ready to use. Take the dough that has now rested . Take a part of it and on a lightly floured surface shape it into a log, about 1 inch thick .
Cut into pieces about 1 inch long; they should weigh about 0.7-0.9 oz each . You will get about 20 (the important thing is that you get an even number). At this point, shape each piece into a ball and with your fingers elongate one part
and then another opposite to it, to almost give the shape of a lemon (which will be more precise during baking) . Place the cookies on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, spacing them well apart as they tend to expand during baking . Bake on the central rack in a preheated static oven at 347°F for about 15 minutes. Then remove the cookies from the oven and let them cool on the baking sheet before moving them. They should not color too much on the surface and only slightly golden at the base .
Once baked, let them cool completely on a rack. When they are cold, create a hole at the base and with a teaspoon gently scoop out a bit of the inside, to create a cavity (37-38). Take the soak and for a more intense color, add a little yellow coloring .
Stir with a teaspoon to dissolve it . Then transfer the cream into a piping bag. Slightly soak the base of the lemons in the soak , then pair up two lemons and fill both with the cream .
Close them to form a single lemon and use a spatula to smooth the cream that has oozed out from the edges . Repeat this operation for the other lemons and let them rest in the fridge for about 30 minutes.
Then retrieve them and dip them into the soak . Then coat the lemons in sugar and gradually transfer them to a tray . Decorate with lemon leaves and store your sweet lemons in the fridge until ready to serve.
Sweet lemons can be stored in the fridge for up to 3 days.
The dough can be frozen raw.
We do not recommend freezing the cream.
For an even better result, we recommend preparing the cookies and the cream a day in advance.
Do not want to use food coloring? Try adding a pinch of turmeric to your soak to enhance the color of your sweet lemons!

