name:
Pardulas
ingredients:
Semolina: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Lard: 1oz(30 g)
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Semolina: 6.4tbsp(60 g)
Egg yolks: 1.8tbsp(26 g)- (about 2)
Saffron: 0.05tsp(0.25 g)- powdered
Lemon peel: 1
Orange peel: 1
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the time needed to properly drain the ricotta (all night if necessary)

instructions:
To prepare pardulas, first, you will need to let the ricotta drain (preferably overnight or a few hours before processing). For the pastry shells: in a bowl, pour the semolina and lard and work the mixture to obtain a crumbly dough , then add water .
Continue kneading until everything is compacted . Wrap your dough ball in plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature just while you are preparing the filling.
Prepare the filling: in a bowl, add the ricotta which must be well-drained and dry , add the sugar and mix with a whisk to incorporate ,
then add the egg yolks , semolina , saffron powder .
and citrus zest (13-14), taking care to avoid grating the white part of the zest, which is bitter. Blend everything with the whisk and store in the fridge.
Take the dough ball and roll it out with a rolling pin to a thickness of 1 millimeter, then cut out disks with a round pastry cutter 4 inches in diameter, trying to cut them very close to each other (17-18), you will get 16 pieces this way.
Place a generous spoonful of filling in the center of each disk and close the pastries by pinching them at the edges with your fingertips (20-21),
all around, thus creating a sort of small baskets with 8 points . If the disks dry out too much, brush them with a little water on the edges to close the pastries well. Place the pardulas on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and brush the surface with the yolk beaten with a little milk (23-24).
Bake in a static preheated oven at 300°F for about 40 minutes. Once cooked, take them out of the oven , let them cool slightly, and then dust them with a little powdered sugar . Your pardulas are ready to be enjoyed .
Store the pardulas in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap and consume within 2 days. It is possible to freeze them after baking.
It is recommended to use very fresh sheep's ricotta. It is necessary to let it drain in the refrigerator overnight because it must be very dry for optimal filling consistency.
When cutting the dough, try to get as little waste as possible because the dough tends to dry out and it is not advisable to knead it again.

