name:
Baked Grouper with Artichokes
ingredients:
Grouper fillets: 10.6oz(300 g)- (already cleaned)
Artichokes: 0.9lb(400 g)- (to clean)
Lemon juice: ½
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Lemon peel: 1
Lemon juice: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
White wine: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Rosemary: 1sprig
Sage: 3leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the baked grouper with artichokes, first make the dressing: finely chop the sage and rosemary , then grate the garlic cloves and the zest of one lemon into a small bowl .
Add the oil , lemon juice , white wine
and the previously chopped herbs , mix well , and set aside for now. Fill a bowl with water and squeeze the juice of half a lemon into it : this will be used to soak the artichokes after cleaning and cutting them to prevent them from turning brown.
Now it's time to clean the artichokes: remove the tougher leaves and the outer layer of the stem , then cut off the top end .
Cut the artichokes in half , remove the central fuzz , and slice them lengthwise into not too thin slices , immersing them gradually in the acidulated water: you will need about 5 oz of cleaned and cut artichokes in total.
Grease a baking dish measuring about 12x8 inches with a drizzle of oil and place the cleaned grouper fillets inside , season with salt and some of the dressing prepared earlier . Arrange the artichokes around the fillets ,
then dress with the remaining salmoriglio , pepper , and bake in a preheated static oven at 400°F for about 25 minutes. Once cooked, take your baked grouper with artichokes out of the oven and serve it hot !
We recommend consuming the baked grouper with artichokes as soon as it's ready or storing it in the refrigerator for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
You can follow the same procedure to cook fillets of sea bream, red mullet, or small swordfish steaks, keeping in mind that the cooking time will vary depending on their size. As an alternative to artichokes, you can use slightly blanched turnip greens or scallions, thinly sliced potatoes, asparagus, carrots... let the season inspire you!

