name:
Raviole emiliane
ingredients:
Eggs: 1.7oz(47 g)- with yellow yolk (about 1 small at room temperature)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(240 g)
Baking powder: 0.65tsp(3 g)- (about 1 teaspoon)
Butter: 6tbsp(90 g)- at room temperature
Whole milk: 0.1cup(35 g)- at room temperature
Lemon peel: 1
Bolognese mustard: 9tbsp(135 g)
Whole milk: to taste
Sugar: to taste
Alchermes: to taste- (optional)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 9 pieces
Cost: Low
Note 6 hours of chilling in the refrigerator

instructions:
To make the raviole, first sift the flour and baking powder through a sieve , then pour the powders into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, add the butter cut into pieces, flavor with grated lemon zest , and turn on the machine to obtain a sandy mixture,
add the sugar , mix again, and then pour in the eggs and milk .
Knead again until a uniform mixture is obtained , transfer it to a pastry board , and work it by hand to form a dough ball , cover it with cling film, and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 6 hours.
After resting time, take the dough ball, knead it quickly by hand, then roll it out with a rolling pin to a thickness of about 3/16-1/4 inch . Now cut out circles with a 4-inch diameter scalloped edge cookie cutter . Now fill the discs with a tablespoon of mustard placing it in the center .
Fold each raviola in half to form a half-moon and press the edges to adhere the ends . Brush the surface of the sweets with milk
Then sprinkle them with sugar and place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper . Bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 20 minutes on the middle shelf. Take the raviole out of the oven and let them cool .
Before enjoying them, you can brush all or some with alchermes, brushing only the surface to make them more aromatic and give a pinkish color . Your Emilian raviole are ready to be served !
The raviole keep for 4 days under a glass dome. It is possible to freeze the dough before baking.
It is advisable to make the shortcrust pastry the day before, and we recommend using eggs with golden yolks, richer in proteins, to obtain the right consistency of the dough.
Bolognese mustard is a sweet jam but with a strong flavor made from mixed fruits, sugar, mustard, and cooked must, which give it its typical taste and distinctive color. Originally, this mustard was prepared to recycle overripe fruit and has always been used to fill typical Emilian sweets.

