name:
White chocolate bon bons
ingredients:
Eggs: 4.4oz(125 g)
Sugar: 6tbsp(75 g)
Potato starch: 3 ⅛tbsp(25 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(35 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 3tbsp(15 g)
Dark chocolate 55%: 2.6oz(75 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.3cup(75 g)
Raspberries: ¾cup(100 g)
Wildflower honey: 1tbsp(15 g)
White chocolate: 2.4cups(400 g)
Food coloring: to taste- liposoluble

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 22 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus resting time (3 hours)

instructions:
To make the white chocolate bon bons, first prepare the sponge cake. Separate the yolks from the whites , transfer the yolks to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk, along with half of the sugar . Beat the yolks until they are pale, fluffy, and frothy.
Set aside and also whip the egg whites with the other half of the sugar (4-5). At this point, combine the yolks with the egg whites , gently mixing from the bottom up so as not to deflate the mixture.
At this point, sift flour, potato starch , and cocoa powder into a bowl. Add the dry ingredients to the egg mixture in two batches .
and always mix from the bottom up . Transfer the mixture into a 6-inch mold previously lined with parchment paper . Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F on the middle rack for about 20 minutes. Always do the toothpick test, and when it is done, take the sponge cake out of the oven and let it cool slightly in the mold .
While the sponge cake is baking, start preparing the raspberry ganache. Pour raspberries and honey into a small saucepan . Cook over low heat for about 5 minutes, stirring often until they soften and become a puree .
Strain the obtained mixture and set it aside . Finely chop the chocolate .
and bring the cream to a boil . Then, while keeping it warm, pour about half of the cream into the chocolate and stir with a spatula to combine with the chocolate .
Pour the remaining cream and stir again. Then add the raspberry mixture and blend everything with an immersion blender .
Cover with plastic wrap and let crystallize in the refrigerator for 2 hours. After this time, remove the cooled sponge cake from the mold, take 150 grams of it, and cut it into pieces . Then crumble it with your hands into a bowl .
to obtain sponge cake crumbs . Take the chocolate ganache and melt it in a double boiler or microwave, stirring often . Solidifying the ganache and then melting it again helps achieve a smoother finish on the final chocolate.
Pour the sponge cake into the ganache and mix first with a spatula and, if necessary, with your hands to compact the mixture . Cover and let it firm up in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. Then take a portion of the mixture about 0.5 oz .
and with your hands, shape it into slightly elongated spheres, forming egg shapes . Continue this way until you have made them all (you will get about twenty), placing them on a tray lined with parchment paper, and place them in the refrigerator for another 30 minutes. Finely chop the white chocolate and transfer 265 grams into one bowl and 135 grams into another . At this point, melt the larger batch of white chocolate in a double boiler or microwave, stirring often, and bring it to a temperature of 108°F.
Then pour the other part of the chopped chocolate into the just-melted chocolate and stir: the temperature should reach 84°F . Dip the balls one at a time into the melted white chocolate , gently submerging them,
and use a fork to coat them entirely . Then transfer each bon bon onto a tray lined with parchment paper and continue for all the others .
At this point, divide the remaining white chocolate into 4 or more small bowls: by adding different food colorings, you can decorate your bon bons. Add a pinch of fat-soluble coloring to each bowl and mix to create colored chocolate for decorations. We chose yellow, light blue .
pink , and green . Prepare some parchment paper cones and transfer the colored chocolate into each one .
Use the cones to decorate your white chocolate bon bons as desired (49-50). Then store them in the refrigerator until ready to serve .
It is recommended to store the bon bons in the refrigerator for up to 5-6 days.
You can prepare the sponge cake in advance and freeze it until needed, or you can use leftover Easter cake (without candied fruit) to make the mixture. If you want to skip the chocolate tempering step, you can simply melt the white chocolate, and when it is at room temperature, pour it over the treats or dip them in the chocolate. Of course, the visual result won't be identical; the bon bons may become dull, and the cocoa butter may separate in some spots, but the taste will be just as delicious!

