name:
Pumpkin Scones
ingredients:
Delica pumpkin: 1cup(250 g)- pulp
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Whole milk: 0.4cup(100 ml)
Baking powder: 2tsp(10 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Sbrinz cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)- to be grated
Thyme: 1spoonful- to chop
Nutmeg: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: 1tsp
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 1
Whole milk: 1spoonful
Culatello ham: 24slices
Robiola cheese: 7oz(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + resting time of the dough in the refrigerator (at least 30 min.)

instructions:
To make the pumpkin scones, start by preparing the pumpkin: cut it into slices, remove the seeds and inner fibers with a spoon , then peel it . Arrange the pumpkin slices on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and season with oil ,
salt , pepper, and grated nutmeg . Bake the pumpkin in a preheated static oven at 464°F for 25 minutes until it becomes soft .
Once cooked, remove the pumpkin from the oven and let it cool. Once cooled, transfer it to a blender and puree it. Transfer the pumpkin puree to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook and add the rest of the ingredients: milk ,
cubed butter , grated cheese , salt , and,
finally, the sifted flour and baking powder . Activate the stand mixer for a few moments to mix and incorporate all the ingredients, then place the dough on the work surface and add the chopped thyme . Work the dough by hand until you get a compact and homogeneous dough, then wrap it in plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator to firm up for at least half an hour.
After the resting time, place the dough on a lightly floured surface and roll it out with a rolling pin to obtain a sheet about 0.6 inches thick . Use a 2.5-inch diameter pastry cutter to cut out circles , then knead the leftover scraps to make more circles: with these amounts, you should get about 24. Transfer the circles to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, beat the egg with a tablespoon of milk and brush the surface with this emulsion .
Bake the scones in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 10-15 minutes, until they are lightly golden on the surface . Once cooked, remove them from the oven and transfer them to a rack to cool. At this point, you can enjoy them on their own or cut them in half and fill with cream cheese and culatello, as we did, or with other cold cuts and cheeses of your choice. The pumpkin scones are ready to be served !
It's recommended to consume the filled pumpkin scones the same day. Unfilled pumpkin scones can be stored in a plastic food bag in the refrigerator for up to 2-3 days. You can freeze the already cooked and unfilled scones and thaw them at room temperature when needed.
You can replace Sbrinz with the same amount of grated Parmesan. Alternatively to thyme, you can use other aromatic herbs such as sage!

