name:
Shallot Tatin
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1roll- (230 grams)
Shallot: 12.5oz(350 g)
Whole cane sugar: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: ½tbsp(10 g)
Butter: 10
Black pepper: to taste
Lavender: 0.04oz(1 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the shallot tatin, start by cleaning the shallots. After peeling them , cut them in half lengthwise , and then move on to the lavender. Once cleaned, finely chop it, then you can move to the stove .
In a steel pan without a plastic handle, heat oil and butter ; when the base is hot, add the shallots cut side up . Cook over low heat for a couple of minutes. Then sprinkle with brown sugar ,
lavender , salt, and pepper, and turn the shallots to the other side ; cook for a few more minutes. Shake the pan occasionally to mix .
At this point, turn off the heat and unroll the puff pastry. Using a 9-inch pastry cutter, cut out a disc to cover the shallots still in the pan . Then fold the edges inward .
Bake in a static oven at 356°F for 20 minutes + 5 minutes at 392°F . Once ready, all you have to do is unmold your shallot tarte tatin, still piping hot, onto a serving plate larger than the pan, flipping the pan and plate simultaneously , and there it is ready: enjoy your meal !
It is recommended to store the shallot tatin for no more than one day because the puff pastry will lose its texture. Once the shallots are cooked, it's best to prepare the tatin immediately, as they tend to soften too much; if needed, you can prepare them a couple of hours in advance, taking care to significantly reduce the cooking times in the pan. If preferred, you can freeze the cooked tatin and thaw it when needed; if raw, still in the pan (it will need to be cooked once thawed).
To accompany your shallot tarte tatin, blend 2.5 oz of spicy gorgonzola with 1/3 cup of fresh cream and 1 oz of milk: you'll get a delicious savory cream perfect for balancing the sweetness of the tatin! If you don't want to miss the opportunity to get your hands on the dough, you can prepare the Easy Shortcrust Pastry yourself, perhaps enriching the dough with more chopped lavender!

