name:
Purple Potato Culurgiones
ingredients:
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Water: ½cup(140 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 0.7cup(110 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Purple potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Sardinian pecorino cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Mint: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Artichokes: 3- Sardinian spiny artichokes
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Water: to taste
Lemons: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour and a half of resting time

instructions:
To prepare the purple potato culurgiones with artichokes, first take care of the filling: wash the purple potatoes and then boil them in water for about 30 minutes from boiling; check the cooking by piercing them with the prongs of a fork. Mash them while still hot with a potato masher into a bowl ,
then add the Pecorino cheese , a clove of pressed garlic , some chopped fresh mint leaves ,
olive oil , salt, and pepper. Mix well by kneading by hand , cover with plastic wrap , and refrigerate to firm up for at least 1 hour.
Now prepare the dough for the culurgiones: in a bowl, pour the flour, semolina , room temperature water , salt, and oil .
Mix the mixture first with a fork and then for a few minutes by hand , transferring to the work surface for convenience . You should obtain a smooth and elastic dough.
Form a ball, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rest at room temperature for half an hour. After this time, prepare the culurgiones: take the dough ball and take a small portion (keep the rest covered in plastic wrap so it doesn't dry out) , roll out the dough, after lightly dusting it with semolina, using the pasta roller to thickness no. 7 .
From the obtained sheet , cut out discs with a 3.5-inch diameter cookie cutter . Take a walnut-sized piece of filling and place it in the center of the dough disc .
Take the disc and fold one edge of the dough over the filling . Now pinch the dough on the side of the edge and drag it over the folded edge (the dough is elastic, so you can pull it gently without tearing it), and immediately repeat the operation on the other side .
Continue bringing each pinch of dough alternately towards the center to form a sort of braid. Once at the top, seal the tuft, and your first culurgione is ready . Continue in this way, you should obtain about 30 pieces. Once the culurgiones are finished, prepare the dressing: clean the artichokes by removing the harder outer leaves and cutting off the tips .
Then cut them in half and extract the central choke , now you can cut them into thin slices and store them in acidified water with lemon as you slice them.
Prepare the sauté with oil and garlic in a shirt, add the drained artichokes , salt them, and cook them over high heat, stirring often for about 5 minutes, at the end of cooking remove the garlic clove . Meanwhile, bring the water to a boil and cook the culurgiones , no more than ten at a time.
Once it resumes boiling, cook them for 3-4 minutes, then drain them directly into the pan with the artichokes . Mix gently and then serve the purple potato and artichoke culurgiones on the plate, complete with pepper, Pecorino flakes , and mint leaves .
You can store raw culurgiones at room temperature for 1-2 days at most, covering them well with a clean kitchen towel. You can also freeze uncooked culurgiones. However, to do this, you should cook them in boiling water for 1 minute, so they do not break when you cook them next time. Once frozen, you can cook them by dropping them still frozen in boiling salted water. Once dressed, it is recommended to consume them immediately.
As an alternative to artichokes, you can simply dress the culurgiones with oil and cheese or with a fresh tomato sauce.

