name:
Cigars with Goat Cheese and Rosemary Honey
ingredients:
Phyllo dough: 2.1oz(60 g)- (3 rectangular sheets 24x40 cm)
Goat: 4.25oz(120 g)
Lemon peel: ½
Black pepper: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Butter: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Wildflower honey: 1.5oz(40 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the cigars with goat cheese and rosemary honey, take the 3 sheets of phyllo dough and stack them on top of each other. Use a small knife to cut the 3 sheets into 12 rectangles of 3x4 inches . The dough rectangles should be as long as your metal cylinder and wide enough to wrap around the cylinder 3 times. Our cylinders are 3 inches long and have a diameter of 0.4 inches. Butter them and wrap the dough around, tightening it well and ensuring it sticks out more on one side, so it will be easy to remove the cylinders later (2-3).
When you reach the end, seal the outer edge by brushing it with water . If the dough starts to dry out, you can brush the rectangles with water before rolling them. Proceed the same way with the others, trying to work quickly because phyllo dough tends to dry out , and place them on a tray lined with parchment paper. Meanwhile, heat the oil to a temperature of 320°F. When the oil reaches the right temperature, immerse one cylinder at a time or, if the pan is large enough, at most 2, so that they do not touch each other.
Fry them for a couple of minutes at most until they are golden brown, then drain them and lay them on a tray lined with paper towels. Let them cool slightly before gently removing the cylinders (8-9).
At this point, prepare the goat cheese cream: place the cheese in a bowl and add the grated lemon zest , a drizzle of oil , a grind of pepper, and mix everything with a spoon , until smooth. Transfer the cream into a pastry bag with a ribbed tip of 0.2 inches, and set aside.
Now make the rosemary honey: pour the honey into a small bowl and heat it in the microwave, then pluck the rosemary leaves and chop them finely . Add the rosemary to the honey in the small bowl and mix . Fill the cannoli first from one side
and then from the other . Arrange them on a plate and garnish with a few drops of rosemary honey before serving .
If you prefer to prepare the cigars in advance, we recommend storing them empty for a few hours and filling them at the last minute.
The cream can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
If any cigars are left over, they can be stored in the fridge for 1-2 days but will not be as crispy as when freshly filled!
If you prefer, instead of phyllo dough, you can use either shortcrust pastry or puff pastry.
For a more pronounced note, add chopped chives to the goat cheese cream.

