name:
Tatin of Stuffed Zucchini Flowers
ingredients:
Whole grain farro flour: 1 ⅓cup(155 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(60 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)- cold from the fridge
Water: 5tbsp(70 g)- icy
Fine salt: to taste
Zucchini flowers: 11
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: ¾cup(220 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Eggs: 1- small
Black pepper: to taste
Baby Zucchini (summer squash): 6
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Mint: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the tatin of stuffed zucchini flowers, first prepare the spelt shortcrust pastry: in a food processor with a steel blade, add the whole spelt flour and all-purpose flour , add the cold butter from the fridge and salt
and blend to obtain a sandy mixture . Continue blending at high speed while pouring in the ice-cold water in a thin stream until the mixture comes together: it will only take a few moments .
At this point, transfer the dough onto the work surface, shape it into a smooth disc , wrap it in plastic wrap, and put it in the refrigerator to rest for about 30 minutes. In the meantime, you can start on the filling for the zucchini flowers: sieve the ricotta into a bowl by pushing it through a fine-mesh sieve with a spatula , then add the egg ,
the coarsely chopped sun-dried tomatoes , grated Grana Padano , salt, and pepper. Mix thoroughly, transfer the mixture into a piping bag , and let it rest in the refrigerator while continuing with the rest of the preparation.
Take the zucchini flowers, shorten the stem, and detach the tips of the peduncle at the base , then remove the pistil and immerse the flowers in ice water .
Once they are cleaned, gently drain the flowers and place them to dry on paper towels . In the meantime, slice the baby zucchinis into thin rounds using a mandoline and set them aside for now. Retrieve the ricotta mixture from the fridge and fill the zucchini flowers ,
carefully sealing the end to prevent the filling from leaking out . Take an oven-safe skillet, add the oil, and sprinkle the bottom with a couple of tablespoons of Grana Padano ; turn on the medium heat, and as soon as the cheese starts to melt, arrange the stuffed zucchini flowers in a radial pattern inside the skillet . Let them cook over medium heat for 2-3 minutes without touching them.
At this point, cover the zucchini flowers with the sliced zucchinis , drizzle with a little oil , salt, pepper, and another tablespoon of Grana Padano , and let them cook for a few more minutes.
Meanwhile, take the brisè dough from the fridge and roll it out on a floured surface until you get a thin disc larger than the skillet . Remove the skillet from the heat, wrap the pastry around the rolling pin, and carefully unroll it over the skillet , then trim the edges with the rolling pin to make it fit well .
Fold the edges inward to prevent the filling from leaking out from the sides , then bake everything in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 45-50 minutes. After baking, remove the skillet from the oven and wait a couple of minutes, then cover it with a serving plate
and flip it over with a firm motion . After garnishing with a bit more grated Grana Padano and a few fresh mint leaves , your tatin of stuffed zucchini flowers will be ready to be served!
The tatin of stuffed zucchini flowers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to a day. It can be frozen after baking.
If you prefer a milder flavor, you can replace the sheep's ricotta with cow's ricotta for the zucchini flower filling, or you can enhance the filling with chopped anchovies instead of sun-dried tomatoes in oil. If you don't have whole spelt flour available, you can make a classic Easy Shortcrust Pastry or Tomato shortcrust pastry !

