name:
Pasta with parsley pesto and pumpkin
ingredients:
Gluten-free Tortiglioni pasta: 11.25oz(320 g)
Mantuan pumpkin: 0.9lb(390 g)
Taggiasca olives: ½cup(60 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: 1cup(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: 6.7tbsp(90 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare pasta with parsley pesto and pumpkin, first, bring a pot full of water to a boil that you will use to cook the pasta. Clean the pumpkin by removing the seeds and inner filaments with a spoon and peeling off the skin, then cut the flesh into slices and then into chunks about half an inch : you will need about 10.5 oz of cleaned pumpkin in total.
Heat the oil in a pan: cover the bottom of a wide pan and when it's hot add the pumpkin cubes . Fry for about 4 minutes until they are just golden, then drain them with a slotted spoon and transfer them to a paper towel to remove excess oil .
When the water comes to a boil, add the tortiglioni, which should cook for the time indicated on the package . Meanwhile, prepare the parsley pesto: place the washed and dried parsley in a tall and narrow container, add the grated parmesan and olive oil , and blend with an immersion blender.
Until you get a smooth sauce . Pour the parsley pesto into a saucepan , and when the pasta is cooked, drain it directly into the same saucepan using a slotted spoon, retaining a bit of the cooking water .
Mix well off the heat, then add the olives and the fried pumpkin . A grind of pepper and your pasta with parsley pesto and pumpkin is ready to be served !
Pasta with parsley pesto and pumpkin can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
You can turn leftover pasta with parsley pesto and pumpkin into a delicious gratin pasta: just add parmesan or other cheese of your choice, a bit of breadcrumbs on top, and leave it under the oven grill just long enough to make it bubbly and golden!

