name:
Whole Wheat Sandwich Bread
ingredients:
Whole grain flour: 2cups(250 g)
Manitoba flour: 2cups(250 g)
Whole milk: 0.6cup(150 g)- warm
Water: 0.42cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)- softened
Malt: 0.5oz(15 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.25oz(7 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¾tsp(10 g)
Water: 1cup(250 g)
Whole grain flour: 0.3cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + rising time (at least 3 h ½)

instructions:
To make whole wheat sandwich bread, first prepare the whole wheat water roux: pour the whole wheat flour into a saucepan , add room temperature water , and stir gently over low heat with a whisk or spatula, being very careful to avoid lumps .
After about 5 minutes, the mixture will have reached a gelatinous consistency with an opalescent appearance , so remove the saucepan from the heat and transfer the mixture into an airtight jar . Allow the water roux to cool, covered with the lid or with plastic wrap in contact , then take a portion weighing 4.2 oz that you will use to make the rest of the recipe.
Pour the fresh yeast into room temperature water and stir to dissolve it completely. In a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook, pour in the whole wheat flour and bread flour , the 4.2 oz of water roux prepared earlier ,
the malt (you can alternatively use honey) , the lukewarm milk , and the yeast previously dissolved in water .
Start the stand mixer on low speed to mix all ingredients well until you have a smooth and homogeneous mixture . At this point, add a piece of butter at a time, keeping the mixer running and ensuring that it is completely absorbed before adding the next . Finally, add the salt
and continue mixing until the dough almost completely detaches from the sides of the bowl . Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surface and work it quickly to shape it into a ball , then place it in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise at room temperature for about 1.5 hours.
After the rising time, oil a 9.8 x 3.9 x 3.9 inch loaf pan and its lid well . Turn the risen dough out onto a lightly floured work surface
and work it briefly with your hands to roll it up without flattening it , forming a loaf of the same length as the pan . Place the loaf in the pan , close it with the lid, and let it rise in the oven turned off with the light on for about 2 hours.
When the dough has reached the edge of the pan , bake in a preheated static oven at 374°F for about 40 minutes with the lid closed. The bread will be ready when it reaches a core temperature of 205°F, measured with a probe. Once baked, remove the pan from the oven and let it cool without the lid , after which your whole wheat sandwich bread will be ready to be sliced and enjoyed as you prefer !
Whole wheat sandwich bread can be stored for about 2 days covered with plastic wrap. If desired, you can freeze it after baking and cooling, perhaps already sliced.
Any excess water roux can be stored in the refrigerator for a week in a tightly sealed jar.
If you wish to add a crunchy note to your whole wheat sandwich bread, you can add seeds or other nuts to the dough.

