name:
Chocolate Mimosa Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 10
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Potato starch: ¾cup(100 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4 ¼tbsp(60 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.625cup(150 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Fine salt: ½tsp
Edible flowers: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note plus the cooling time

instructions:
To prepare the cocoa sponge cake, separate the egg yolks from the egg whites (you will need 150 g of yolks and 360 g of egg whites) ; place the yolks in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with beaters and add half the sugar . Beat them until they are well whipped and you have obtained a fluffy and light mixture .
Set aside and whisk the egg whites with the remaining sugar until the mixture is white and frothy . Incorporate the yolks into the egg whites little by little ,
gently mixing with a spatula from bottom to top to prevent the mixture from deflating . In a bowl, sift the cornstarch, flour , and cocoa powder .
Add the dry ingredients to the batter little by little and continue to mix from bottom to top until they are completely combined .
Grease 2 molds with a diameter of 9 inches, then pour the batter inside and level the surface with a spatula . Bake both cakes on the center rack in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 30 minutes; to check the doneness, you can do the toothpick test: if it comes out moist, the cake will need a few more minutes of baking, otherwise, it will be ready. Remove the two sponge cakes from the oven and let them cool completely .
At this point, you can prepare the cream: chop the chocolate and melt it in the microwave or in a bain-marie. Then place the ricotta in a bowl, along with the vanilla bean seeds
and the sugar . Mix everything with an electric mixer until you obtain a frothy and homogeneous mixture. Then add the salt
and the melted chocolate . Continue mixing until you obtain a homogeneous mixture .
At this point, whip the cream and when it is well whipped, add it in three parts to the mixture you just prepared , always mixing gently from bottom to top with a spatula .
As soon as you have obtained a homogeneous and airy cream , transfer it to a pastry bag without a nozzle (14-15) and place it in the refrigerator.
When the sponge cakes are completely cool, you can unmold them . Take the first one, remove the top crust using a long-bladed knife and divide it in half .
Then flip the last disc and, using the knife, remove only the outer part . You should obtain two discs about 0.6 inches thick . Place the first one on a serving plate, take the pastry bag, and form a first layer of cream on the sponge cake .
You should use about 2/3 of it, spreading it over the entire surface of the cake . Then cover with the second disc , press lightly with your hands, and, using a spatula, smooth the cream on the edges and place the cake in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes.
Take the second sponge cake and clean it both on the top and the bottom as before . Then cut out two discs and cut each disc first into strips about 0.6 inches wide and then into small cubes .
Take the cake from the fridge and cover it with the remaining cream , using a spatula to spread the cream evenly on both the surface and the edges . At this point, cover it with the cocoa sponge cake cubes made earlier
to cover it completely, leaving no empty spaces . Dust with powdered sugar and decorate with edible flowers as desired . Serve your chocolate mimosa cake !
The chocolate mimosa cake can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. It is possible to freeze the baked sponge cake.
You can add chocolate chips or fresh red fruits to the cream to add a touch of color when slicing. Additionally, the cream can be flavored with a few teaspoons of Rum or other liqueurs as desired. It is advisable to prepare the sponge cakes a day in advance and store them wrapped in cling film in a cool, dry place.

