name:
Two-flavor snack
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Sugar: 0.8cup(160 g)
Eggs: 7.1oz(200 g)- (about 4)
Butter: 5.67oz(160 g)- softened at room temperature
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Whole milk: 2tbsp(30 g)
Apricot jam: 0.85cup(200 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the two-flavor snack, first break the eggs into a bowl, add the sugar , and beat them until they are fluffy . Then add the softened butter in cubes
and continue working with the mixer at medium speed until you get a well-whipped cream . Then add the grated lemon zest
and the sifted flour, together with the baking powder . Then mix gently with a wooden spoon . When the flour is completely absorbed, divide the dough into two bowls ; you should pour about 13.2 oz in each.
At this point, sift the cocoa into one of the two bowls . Mix gently from bottom to top with a spatula to combine it and also add the milk .
Mix again always gently until you obtain a homogeneous dough . Place an 8-inch square mold on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and pour the mixture inside . Level the surface with a spatula and bake at 356°F for about 20 minutes in the center rack. Always do the toothpick test before taking the cake out of the oven.
Meanwhile, pour the white dough into another 8-inch square mold placed on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and level the surface this time with a spatula . Once ready, take out the chocolate cake and bake the white one. If you don't have two 8-inch square molds, wait for the cocoa one to be ready, keeping the white dough at room temperature.
Wait a few minutes and when it is no longer hot, remove the mold from the cake . Then turn it upside down, gently remove the parchment paper and transfer it to a wire rack until completely cooled.
When the white cake is also cooked, take it out of the oven . As done previously, wait a bit before removing the mold, the parchment paper , and let this one cool on the rack .
Place the jam in a pastry bag , it will be more convenient to fill the cake. When both cakes are completely cold, clean them from the upper and lower outer crust (26-27) to get only the core.
Do the same with the other chocolate cake and place it on a surface. Fill it with the jam and level it with a spatula .
Place the white cake on top and let the cake cool in the refrigerator for about ten minutes. Then using a knife, trim the outer edges . Then cut it first in half lengthwise and then in half crosswise to obtain 4 rectangles
which you should further divide in half, to obtain 8 snacks . Dust with powdered sugar and serve your two-flavor snacks .
You can store the two-flavor snacks in a tin box for up to 2 days. If you prefer, the two cakes can be frozen without filling.
You can fill the two-flavor snacks with white chocolate ganache or chocolate. Add some nuts to give a crunchy note to your snack.

