name:
Manfredi with ricotta
ingredients:
Ricotta di bufala cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Basil: a few- leaf
Reginette pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)- (Manfredi or Mafalde)
Beef steak: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Pork ribs: 0.75lb(320 g)
Sausage: 12oz(340 g)
Yellow onions: 2cups(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Red wine: ¼cup(70 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Tomato purée: 3cups(700 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 4 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To start, prepare the Neapolitan ragù. Peel and chop the onion . Then trim some of the fat from the beef and cut the stew into pieces . Proceed with cooking: in a large pot, pour the oil and sauté the onion over low heat . Stir often.
After a few minutes, add the pieces of meat and let them sear well, turning them occasionally, for 6-7 minutes . Deglaze with the wine and let the alcohol evaporate completely .
Cover with the tomato puree and water , adjust the salt, and cook over low heat for at least 4 hours. Remember, if the water is not enough, you can add more so that the meat cooks and the sauce doesn't dry out too much . Once the time has passed, prepare the ricotta cream. In a bowl, pour the buffalo ricotta and add about 350 g of sauce taken from the ragù .
Mix with a whisk until a smooth purée is obtained and set aside for a moment . Cook the manfredi in boiling salted water and drain them al dente, immediately placing them, still dripping with water, directly into the dish with the sauce .
If necessary, you can add a bit more sauce or cooking water . Stir well and then plate. Garnish with a little more tomato sauce mixed with shredded meat, a grinding of pepper, and a few basil leaves: your manfredi with ricotta are ready, enjoy your meal !
Consume the meat (along with the sauce) as a second course! You can store the sauce for 2-3 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container. If you prefer, you can prepare the Neapolitan ragù in advance; it will be even more delicious! On the other hand, manfredi with ricotta is best consumed immediately. If you prefer to store them, don't go beyond one day, perhaps you could reheat the pasta in a pan and enjoy a variant with a crispy crust!
If you don't feel like preparing the Neapolitan ragù, you can cook some tomato puree in a sauté of oil and onion. To enrich the sauce, just add a bit of tomato paste! Adding other cheeses like Parmesan or Pecorino is allowed, but you risk making the dish heavier. Finally, if you want to try a small variant, simply dress the pasta with the sauce and add the ricotta cream directly on the plates!

