name:
Piadina with greens, potatoes, and Colonnata lard
ingredients:
Flatbread: 4- classic puff pastries
Swiss chard: 1.3lbs(600 g)- to clean
Potatoes: 4- medium
Colonnata lard: 16slices
Pecorino cheese: to taste- for grating
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare the piadina with greens, potatoes, and Colonnata lard, first wash the potatoes and boil them in a pot for about 30 minutes until they are cooked but still firm and compact. Boil another pot of unsalted water for the greens. In the meantime, clean them by removing the ends of the stems and washing them under running water: you will need about 1.1 lbs of cleaned greens in total. Blanch the greens in the boiling water for about 3 minutes .
Drain the greens with a slotted spoon and transfer them to a bowl filled with ice and cold water : this way they will retain a vibrant color. In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil with a clove of garlic, add the drained greens , salt, pepper, and cook for about 10 minutes until the leaves are cooked but still clearly visible .
When the potatoes are also cooked, drain them and cut them into slices about 0.2 inches thick, without peeling them . Heat a non-stick pan and grill the potato slices on both sides for a total of about 10 minutes . Once all the ingredients are ready, heat the piadina for about 2 minutes in a pan, turning it on both sides .
Turn off the heat and cover half of the piadina's surface with the greens , add the potatoes while they are still hot , and place 4 slices of lard on top .
Transfer the piadina to a cutting board and add the grated Pecorino cheese , then fold it in half and divide it into 2 equal parts: your piadina with greens, potatoes, and Colonnata lard is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the piadina with greens, potatoes, and Colonnata lard immediately. If you prefer, you can prepare the greens the day before and store them in the refrigerator.
You can replace the pepper with chili to give the greens a spicy touch.

