name:
Cacio e pepe breadsticks
ingredients:
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 0.67cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Water: 10tbsp(150 g)- at room temperature
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(2 g)- (if fresh, 7 grams)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1oz(25 g)
Ground black pepper: 0.7tsp(1.5 g)
Fine salt: 0.6tsp(3 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 2 hours for rising and 30 minutes for resting

instructions:
To prepare the cacio e pepe breadsticks, start by grating the Pecorino Romano cheese and then the black pepper: freshly ground it will be more fragrant and flavorful . In the mixer, pour the two types of flour ,
the grated Pecorino , the ground pepper , and the dry yeast .
Then turn on the mixer at low speed, equipped with a hook, just long enough to mix the ingredients . Pour in a part of the water , add the salt
and then continue adding the remaining water . Remember not to pour it all at once, but a little at a time, it may not be necessary. As soon as the mixture has reached a more compact form, about 10 minutes later , add the oil in a thin stream and let it knead again at medium-low speed for another 10 minutes .
As soon as the mixture is well attached to the hook , transfer the dough onto the work surface and knead briefly by hand . Shape the dough into a ball
and let it rest in a container . Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise at a temperature of 78-82°F for about 2 hours or until the dough has doubled in size .
Detach the dough from the container, using a dough scraper, and roll it out on the floured work surface with semolina using a rolling pin . Work until you obtain a rectangle of about 7.5x10 inches and about 0.3 inches thick .
Use your hands to square off the edges , and then, with a smooth wheel, cut double-thickness breadsticks, still 0.3 inches: you should get about twenty breadsticks . Gently place the breadsticks on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Let them rest for 20-30 minutes before baking. The breadsticks bake in a preheated, static oven at 390°F for about 18-20 minutes. Turn them halfway through cooking and continue . Once cooked, let them cool on a wire rack . Your cacio e pepe breadsticks are ready: all that's left is to enjoy them !
Cacio e pepe breadsticks keep for a couple of days, best if stored in a tin container or a plastic food bag.
Once kneaded, you can let the dough mature in the refrigerator overnight, or in any case for 6 to 12 hours. The next day, it will be sufficient to acclimate the dough and proceed as per the recipe.
If you prefer, you can try freezing the dough. It is not recommended to freeze the breadsticks once cooked.
Try using different types of pepper, or even create a colorful mix with green, white, and pink peppercorns. Or use Pecorino with different levels of aging: you'll have always different cacio e pepe breadsticks!
Try other delicious variations of cacio e pepe, such as Cheese and Pepper Balls with Fondue or Risotto with Cheese, Pepper, and Figs .

