name:
Risotto cacio e pepe
ingredients:
Water: 6 ½cups(1.5 l)
Coarse salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Shallot: 1
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: to taste- only the crust
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Ground black pepper: 1spoonful
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(45 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the cacio e pepe risotto, the first thing you need to do is make the broth: remove the rind from the pecorino and set it aside. Peel the shallot , cut it in half .
and toast it in the bottom of a hot pan . Then add the water, the pepper , and the coarse salt .
and the Pecorino rind . Let it simmer for 30-40 minutes , then using a fine-mesh skimmer, remove the shallot, pepper, and Pecorino rind .
Meanwhile, place the peppercorns on a cutting board and crush them coarsely with a meat tenderizer (10-11). Then grate the Pecorino and set it aside .
Pour the rice into a hot pan and toast it dry, without adding oil or other fats , until you feel it burn when you touch it. At this point, start adding hot broth and continue cooking this way, adding more broth as needed. Once the rice is cooked , turn off the heat.
Stir in the butter , the Pecorino , and almost all the pepper , saving some for the final decoration.
Mix the risotto thoroughly and if necessary, add another ladle of broth. Decorate with the reserved pepper and a few slivers of Pecorino before serving .
It is recommended to consume the risotto immediately.
Try adding some fava beans during the risotto cooking and a bit of lemon zest at the very end!
Did you like the idea of transforming a famous Roman first course into a creamy risotto? Then don't miss the recipe for Risotto all'amatriciana !
Among the greatest interpreters of this recipe, now a "classic," is the three-star chef Massimo Bottura of Osteria Francescana in Modena, who prepared it in 2012. This iconic risotto is cooked with Parmesan water and then stirred with the fat of the Parmesan itself. The final touch is given by an aroma of six different types of pepper. A true delight from the creativity of one of the most important Italian chefs in the world.

