name:
Cacio e pepe croquettes
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- aged
Ground black pepper: 2tsp
Ground white pepper: 2tsp
Eggs: 1
Eggs: 3
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(100 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the cacio e pepe croquettes, first wash the potatoes, then place them in a saucepan with cold water and boil them for about 40 minutes from when the water starts boiling, until they are soft enough to be pierced with a fork. In the meantime, place the black and white peppercorns in a mortar and crush them with a pestle ; alternatively, you can use a meat tenderizer.
Grate the aged Pecorino cheese and set aside. When the potatoes are cooked, drain them and mash them in a bowl with a potato masher . Once they have cooled a bit, add the grated Pecorino cheese to the bowl ,
the crushed peppercorns , and the egg . Mix with your hands
until you obtain a homogeneous mixture . Using a small bowl of water to keep your hands moist, take a portion of the mixture and shape it into the classic cylindrical shape of croquettes, slightly flattening the ends ; with these quantities, you should get about 20 croquettes.
Pour the eggs and breadcrumbs for the breading into two separate containers : coat each croquette in the egg and then in the breadcrumbs , then again in the egg and breadcrumbs to achieve a crunchier breading.
Heat the seed oil in a saucepan and bring it to a temperature of 338°F, then immerse a maximum of 2 croquettes at a time and fry them for about 3 minutes until they are nicely golden. Drain the croquettes with a slotted spoon and transfer them onto a sheet of absorbent paper to remove the excess oil . Serve your cacio e pepe croquettes while still hot, being careful not to burn yourself !
It is advisable to consume the cacio e pepe croquettes as soon as they are ready. If you wish, you can freeze them raw before breading.
You can serve the cacio e pepe croquettes with a delicious yogurt sauce, perfect for refreshing your palate!

