name:
Crispy salmon with noodle salad
ingredients:
Salmon fillets: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Dill: to taste
Taggiasca olives: 1.8oz(50 g)- pitted
Pistachios: ½cup(50 g)- shelled
Lemons: 1
Noodles: 7.1oz(200 g)- rice
Garlic: 3cloves
Fresh ginger: 8tbsp(40 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Chard: 11.1cups(400 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the herb-crusted salmon with noodles, first deal with the salmon: use a thin-bladed knife to remove the skin from the fillets and the bones with the help of kitchen tweezers . Place the cleaned salmon fillets on a baking sheet and season with salt , pepper, thyme sprigs, and dill.
Drizzle them with olive oil and season with lemon zest , then proceed to add the pistachios
and the olives . Massage and mix the ingredients so they season evenly . Now add the lemon you grated, cut into wedges . Bake the salmon in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, clean the Swiss chard: cut away the stalk , wash the leaves, and chop them coarsely . Peel the ginger ,
and cut it into thin strips . Now remove the chili pepper stalk, split it lengthwise, and remove the seeds . Cook the rice noodles in boiling salted water for about 6-7 minutes .
Meanwhile, heat the olive oil in a pan with peeled and whole garlic cloves, ginger, and chili pepper . Let them season for a couple of minutes, then add the Swiss chard and cook everything for another 4 minutes. As soon as the noodles are cooked, drain them directly into the pan with the Swiss chard
Mix to season and when the salmon is also ready, remove it from the oven and serve it together with the noodles .
The crispy salmon with noodle salad can be stored in the fridge for one day covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended.
If you have any leftover salmon, you can use it to fill a pita with added yogurt, pickles, and arugula, and in an instant, you'll have a tasty dish!

