name:
Pasta with lamb and chestnut ragù
ingredients:
5-grain Pennette Rigate pasta: 3 ¾cups(320 g)
Lamb: 1.5lbs(680 g)- loin
Chestnuts: 1.67cups(250 g)
Celery: 1cup(100 g)
Leeks: 3.2oz(90 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Rose wine: 0.7oz(20 g)
Fresh ginger: 1 ¾tbsp(10 g)
Saffron: 1bag
Thyme: to taste- (abundant)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare pasta with lamb and chestnut ragù, score the chestnuts , place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , and bake them in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 30 minutes. Once the chestnuts are cooked ,
remove the outer shell and set them aside (4-5). Work on the lamb loin carefully removing the meat ,
then further cut it into small pieces . Peel and chop the fresh ginger , then peel the leek and cut it into thin rings
and coarsely chop it . Also cut the celery stalk into small cubes . Place some water in a large pot for cooking the pasta. Once boiling, add salt. Meanwhile, in a large saucepan, pour a drizzle of olive oil, add the leek ,
the celery , the ginger and sauté everything briefly over low heat. Raise the heat, add the lamb meat ,
and sauté well, stirring occasionally. After about 5 minutes, also add the coarsely crumbled chestnuts ; after a couple of minutes, deglaze everything with rosé wine and let the alcohol evaporate.
Then lower the heat while still sautéing everything, stirring occasionally: cook for about 10-15 minutes. Salt and pepper , then add the thyme leaves and add the fresh cream .
Mix and also add the powdered saffron (22-23). After about 5 minutes, you can turn off the heat; your sauce is ready. Cook the pasta, keeping it slightly undercooked by about a couple of minutes less than indicated on the package , as you will finish cooking it with the ragù.
Then drain the pasta directly into the saucepan , add a couple of ladles of cooking water to keep it creamy, briefly stir your pasta and serve it very hot , if you wish, with another grind of black pepper and more thyme to taste!
It is preferable to consume the pasta with lamb and chestnut ragù as soon as it is ready. You can store it for 1 day in the refrigerator, in an airtight container.
You can replace the saffron with powdered turmeric (about 3 g) and if lamb does not appeal to you, feel free to replace it with rabbit or veal meat.

