name:
Farinata lucchese in jar-cooking
ingredients:
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 1cup(80 g)
Precooked Cannellini beans: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Potatoes: 4.5oz(125 g)
Red onions: 2.5oz(70 g)
Carrots: 1.75oz(50 g)
Celery: 0.17cup(40 g)
Bramata corn flour: ½cup(65 g)
Vegetable broth: to taste
Tomato purée: 2spoonfuls
Rosemary: to taste
Wild fennel: to taste
Dried chili pepper: ¼tsp- (powdered)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 7 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the cooking times for the vegetable broth

instructions:
To prepare the Lucchese chickpea flatbread in jar-cooking, start by preparing the Vegetable broth . Then wash and clean all the vegetables, remove the tough part of the kale leaves' stems and cut the leaves into pieces of about 0.75-1 inch . Peel the carrots
and cut them into sticks then into cubes of 0.25 inch . Proceed the same way with the celery .
Then clean and chop the red onion . Peel the potatoes , cut them in half and from each half first obtain slices, then sticks
then cubes of about 0.3 inch . Set the vegetables aside. Drain the beans from their preservation liquid and take half of them to transfer into a blender .
Add about 4 ladles of hot broth , 2 tablespoons of tomato puree , a few rosemary needles
a pinch of salt and a dash of ground dried chili . Blend with an immersion blender until you get a consistent mixture : keep in mind that the required amount of broth might slightly vary depending on how much the flour absorbs (once the flatbread is cooked).
Now add the flour gradually and mix well. You can now assemble the jars (use new jars with airtight lids and a rubber seal): pour some vegetables (celery, carrot, onion) into each, a few potato cubes ,
some whole beans , a bit of Tuscan kale and cover to the brim with the bean broth and cornmeal mix .
Finish with a drizzle of good oil , a sprinkle of pepper and a few sprigs of wild fennel .
Tightly seal the jars and cook in the microwave at 450 watts for about 5-7 minutes (it depends on the cut, how tough the vegetables are, and the jar used). Once ready, let them rest for a couple of minutes before opening; to open, hold the jar lid with one hand and pull the rubber seal tab with the other. Enjoy the Lucchese chickpea flatbread in jar-cooking !
The Lucchese chickpea flatbread in jar-cooking can be stored in the fridge for 2-3 days. According to grandmothers, it's better the day after, but to reheat, it's advisable to add a little extra broth, as the flatbread tends to thicken.
The beans typically used are Lucchese or black-eyed peas; pre-cooked ones are not available, so we opted for cannellini beans. Borlotti beans can also be used. Instead of fennel, you can use thyme, but fennel gives a special note to the flatbread! Besides Tuscan kale, you can add savoy cabbage and Swiss chard... as long as they fit in the jar!

