name:
Spelt focaccia
ingredients:
Whole grain farro flour: 3 ⅓cups(400 g)
Manitoba flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Water: 1.7cups(400 g)- at room temperature
Fine salt: 2tsp(12 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.25oz(8 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Coarse salt: to taste
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Rolled oats: 2spoonfuls
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ⅓tbsp(50 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note plus 1 night of maturation

instructions:
To prepare the spelt focaccia, first pour the 2 flours into a bowl ; add the crumbled yeast and about half of the water .
Mix with your hands or a wooden spoon , then add a little more water . Pour the salt into the remaining water
and stir with a teaspoon to dissolve it . Then pour the liquid into the dough and work it with your hands until it is completely absorbed .
Cover with a damp cloth and let it rest for about 10 minutes . At this point, start giving the first folds by gently pulling the outer edges of the dough and bringing them towards the center (11-12).
Cover again and wait another 10 minutes before giving more folds . Cover again with the cloth and repeat this operation 4 more times. At first, the dough will be sticky, but with each fold, it will become more tenacious.
After the last 10 minutes, pour the dough into a lightly oiled bowl and cover with plastic wrap . Place in the refrigerator and let it mature overnight. The next day, remove the dough from the fridge and let it sit at room temperature for at least an hour. Then remove the plastic wrap
and transfer it to a lightly floured surface . Shape the dough into a ball and cover it with a bowl . Wait about another 20 minutes.
Grease a 13-inch diameter aluminum pan and transfer the dough inside . Stretch the dough with your hands to cover the entire surface of the pan . If it retracts, let it rest for another 10 minutes.
Using your fingertips, dimple the surface of the focaccia . Season it with coarse salt and rosemary needles .
Add the oat flakes and the remaining oil . Preheat the oven to 410°F in static mode and once it's hot, place the focaccia in direct contact with the base. Wait about 15 minutes, then move the focaccia to the middle rack and finish baking for another 20 minutes before taking it out of the oven .
Quickly prepare a water and oil emulsion by pouring them into a small bowl and mixing them . Transfer the focaccia to a wire rack and brush it with the emulsion while it's still hot . Let it cool slightly before serving your fragrant spelt focaccia !
It is recommended to consume the spelt focaccia freshly made. Alternatively, it can be stored for a maximum of 2 days in a paper bag. You can freeze the focaccia once cooked.
If you wish, you can add olives and capers in the final stage before baking, or insert various seeds into the dough during the last 3 rounds of folds.

