name:
Oysters with champagne and spring onion
ingredients:
Ostrich: 6- very fresh
Spumante: 3.5oz(100 g)- brut
Fresh scallion: 4.5oz(125 g)
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Cornstarch: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Red pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Very high

instructions:
To prepare the oysters with sparkling wine and spring onion, start by cleaning the spring onions. Cut and remove the bottom part and then the tuft, cutting where the attachment is between the green part (do not throw it away), which is more fibrous, and the white part where the tender part begins. Cut the latter vertically and remove the skin, if necessary rinse the inside . Finally, finely chop and place in a bowl . Meanwhile, clean the spring onion stalks you set aside. Then cut into pieces of about 1-1.5 inches .
With the blade, cut inside to divide into two halves lengthwise and chop to obtain sticks just a few millimeters thick . Place them in a container with ice water : this way they will remain crunchy .
and in the end, they will be slightly curled . Set them aside for decoration. In a small pot, melt the butter over low heat and add the chopped spring onion , let it cook for about ten minutes, stirring occasionally .
Once wilted, pour in the sparkling wine and continue cooking for another 10 minutes . At the end of cooking, pour into the bowl of an immersion blender .
Blend and then add the corn starch and activate the blender again for a moment to incorporate the powder thus obtaining a smooth puree; pour into a container and let cool .
Proceed with the breadcrumbs: in a small pan, heat a little oil and add the breadcrumbs . Toast for a few minutes over high heat, stirring occasionally to prevent burning; set aside . At this point, if yours are not already, take care of cleaning the oysters. Use a scrubber to clean the surface of the oysters, rinsing under a stream of water .
Then with a special thin-bladed knife and handle protection, enter inside the bivalves being careful not to tear the mollusk and not to hurt yourself . Arrange on a tray and proceed with the composition .
Pour a little breadcrumbs on one side of the opened oysters , then decorate with the well-drained spring onion stalks , season with a pinch of freshly ground pink pepper and a few drops of the cream prepared earlier. Here are your oysters with sparkling wine and spring onion ready: enjoy your meal !
Any form of storage is not recommended. If you prefer, you can prepare the spring onion cream in advance and keep it in the fridge for a couple of days covered with plastic wrap. Even the breadcrumbs can be prepared in advance, up to a couple of days, but should be stored at room temperature covered with plastic wrap or aluminum.
You can enrich your oysters with sparkling wine and spring onion with lime zest instead of using the spring onion leaves. Moreover, you can replace the latter with shallots.

