name:
Mini savory puff pastries angelicas
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1lb(460 g)- (2 rectangular rolls)
Delica pumpkin: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Verza (savoy cabbage): 7oz(200 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Wild fennel: 1sprig
Powdered turmeric: 1tsp(5 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Eggs: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 2tsp(10 g)- (or milk)
Flax seed: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 11
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the mini savory puff pastry angelicas, first clean the pumpkin . Then cut it into slices and then into cubes ; in total you will obtain 190 g (about 6.7 oz). Also slice the cabbage
and chop it coarsely . Then pour a drizzle of oil into a saucepan and add the pumpkin ; also add the cabbage and mix.
Add a pinch of salt and cover with a lid . Let it cook for about ten minutes and in the meantime mix the Grana Padano and turmeric in a small bowl .
Stir with a teaspoon until you get a homogeneous mixture , then set aside. As soon as the vegetables are cooked, turn off the heat and let them cool completely . In another bowl, break the egg, add the cream (or milk) and beat it all together.
Unroll one of the two sheets of puff pastry and brush it entirely with the mixture of eggs and cream . Arrange the vegetables over the entire surface . Then sprinkle with the turmeric and Grana Padano mixture .
Add a pinch of black pepper and also the fennel by breaking it into small pieces and spreading them everywhere. Cover with the second sheet of puff pastry and seal the edges by pinching them with your fingers .
Cut out a strip about 1.18 inches (3 cm) wide , roll it from one end to the other , close it to form a small ring and transfer it to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper.
Repeat this operation for the other rings, in total you will obtain about 11. Arrange them leaving a little space between one ring and the other; you will need to use two trays. Brush with egg and cream ; sprinkle with flax seeds and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F (180°C) for about 20 minutes. Then take out the mini savory puff pastry angelicas and enjoy them hot or at room temperature!
The mini savory puff pastry angelicas can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of pumpkin and cabbage, you can use the seasonal vegetables you love the most. For a tasty version, also try with chopped chestnuts, beetroot cream, speck, and Casera cheese.

