name:
Savory Migliaccio
ingredients:
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Semolina: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1.67cups(400 g)
Eggs: 7.8oz(220 g)- (about 4 medium)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Lard: 1.8oz(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)
Neapolitan salami: 4.5oz(125 g)
Smoked scamorza cheese: 4.5oz(125 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 45 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the savory migliaccio, start by pouring the water into a steel pot . Then add salt and lard and let it come close to boiling . Stir with a spoon or whisk to help the lard melt.
Lower the heat slightly and gradually add the semolina while continuing to stir with a whisk . Let it cook over low heat for 2 minutes. The mixture should be thickened but not too much . Then pour into a bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and set aside to cool slightly .
Meanwhile, cut the cheese into 1 cm (about 0.39 inches) cubes (we used scamorza) and the salami, previously peeled, into pieces about half a cm (about 0.2 inches) . Sift the ricotta in a large bowl
remove the sieve and then add the eggs , grated Pecorino , and Parmesan.
Salt and pepper and start the beaters to create the mixture . Gradually, with the beaters still running, add the semolina a spoonful at a time
softening, if necessary, with milk poured slowly . You should obtain a soft and creamy mixture. Turn off the beaters and add the diced cheese and salami . Finally, mix to incorporate everything .
Pour the mixture into a pre-greased 28 cm (11 inches) pan (you can use lard if you prefer) and dusted with semolina (or corn flour) ; level the surface carefully . Bake in a static oven, preheated, at 350°F for about 60 minutes, then cover with foil and continue cooking for an additional 45 minutes: in total, it should bake for 105 minutes. Once done, let the savory migliaccio cool slightly before unmolding and enjoying it .
The savory migliaccio can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for 2-3 days. If you prefer, you can also freeze it in portions.
The recipe for savory migliaccio lends itself well to various substitutions. You can use butter instead of lard, diced ham instead of salami, and white scamorza or sweet or spicy provolone instead of smoked scamorza. For ricotta, you can choose buffalo for a richer taste or goat for a more pronounced tartness. The water for cooking can be partially replaced with milk for a softer texture or entirely with milk both in cooking and preparation. In short, follow your imagination... but most importantly, your taste!

