name:
Coconut and Red Berry Donuts
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: 0.625cup(125 g)
Coconut milk: 0.4cup(100 g)
Coconut oil: 6 ½tbsp(90 g)
Eggs: 4.2oz(120 g)- (about 2 medium)
Raspberries: ⅛cup(15 g)
Blueberries: ⅛cup(15 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp
Fine salt: ½tsp
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 5 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the coconut and red berry donuts, first put the coconut oil in a small pot and melt it over low heat just until it becomes liquid . Meanwhile, sift the flour and baking powder into a separate bowl .
Now pour the sugar into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, add the eggs , and mix at low speed until you get a light and frothy mixture. Then turn off the mixer, add the coconut oil , mix again, and after a couple of minutes, also add the coconut milk .
When the mixture has become homogeneous, turn off the machine again, pour in the previously sifted flour with the baking powder , and continue to mix until the dry ingredients are well incorporated. Finally, add the salt , raspberries, and blueberries , and mix again.
After incorporating the red berries into the batter , transfer it to a piping bag and proceed to butter and flour 5 donut molds with a 5-inch diameter and 1.5 inches in height.
Fill the molds halfway up , then bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 25 minutes, placing them on the middle shelf. Once baked, remove the donuts from the oven and let them cool, then remove them from the mold. Serve your delicious coconut and red berry donuts dusted with plenty of powdered sugar !
The coconut and red berry donuts can be stored at room temperature for up to 2 days, sealed in an airtight container or food bags. They can be frozen after baking.
If you don't have steel or iron molds, you can also use aluminum ones, but in this case, you will need to extend the baking time by about 5 minutes. You can replace the fresh red berries with dried ones, making sure to rehydrate them first in warm water or a liqueur of your choice. Alternatively, you can also use chocolate chips!

