name:
Monkfish fish and chips
ingredients:
Monkfish: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste
Egg yolks: 1
Beer: 5.3oz(150 g)- double malt
Rice flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Smoked paprika: 1tsp
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 1tsp(5 g)
Sweet potatoes (or yams): 1cup(200 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste
Chickory: 3.5oz(100 g)- green
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Lemon juice: ½

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the monkfish fish and chips, first make the batter. Pour the rice flour into a bowl, add the paprika and the baking powder for savory preparations . Add a pinch of pepper and salt,
then add the yolk and while continuously whisking, also pour in the beer in a thin stream . Whisk until you obtain a smooth batter . Cover with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator; it is important that it is quite cold when frying.
At this point, take care of the accompanying sauce. Transfer the chicory into a mixer beaker , add the lemon juice and salt .
Then pour in the oil and blend everything with an immersion blender until you obtain a cream .
Now take care of the potatoes: peel them and slice them with a mandoline to obtain slices about 0.8 inches thick . Place them on a sheet of paper towel as you go .
Heat the oil in a pan until it reaches a temperature of 338°F, then immerse a few slices of potatoes at a time and fry them for 3-4 minutes until they are golden brown. Then drain them on a sheet of paper towel and continue cooking the others. Meanwhile, cut the monkfish first into slices
and then into chunks, removing the central bone . Once you have finished frying the potatoes, quickly flour the monkfish pieces . Then take the batter from the fridge and dip them in .
Allow the oil temperature to slightly rise to 356°F and immerse the monkfish pieces using tongs to drain them from the batter . Wait about 3 minutes and when they are golden brown, drain them on a sheet of paper towel . Continue in this way until all the pieces are fried. Everything is ready, just serve your monkfish fish and chips together with the chicory cream .
It is recommended to consume the monkfish fish and chips immediately.
If you prefer, you can use baby spinach instead of chicory. If you prefer a different sauce, you can prepare yogurt seasoned with salt, pepper, and oil.

