name:
Flaxseed Brioche Bread
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 2.8cups(350 g)
Manitoba flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(240 g)- at room temperature
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Brown sugar: ⅛cup(25 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)- at room temperature
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Flax seed: 4 ¼tsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp
Water: 1glass(250 g)- at room temperature
Type 0 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: 0.04cup(10 g)
Flax seed: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + rising time (at least 3 hours in total)

instructions:
To make the flaxseed brioche bread, first prepare the water roux: pour the room temperature water into a saucepan , add the sifted flour and stir over low heat with a spatula or a whisk, being careful not to form lumps .
When the mixture reaches a gelatinous consistency with an opalescent appearance , remove the saucepan from the heat and transfer the mixture into a jar or container , where you will let it cool , covered with a lid or plastic wrap in contact. Once cooled, the water roux will be ready to use, so take out a portion weighing 150 g (5.3 oz), which you will need for the rest of the recipe.
Crumble the yeast into room temperature water and stir with a teaspoon to dissolve it completely . Pour the all-purpose flour and bread flour into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook ,
then add the water roux , the dissolved yeast in water , the milk
and the brown sugar . Work everything at low speed until you get a smooth and homogeneous mixture, then add the softened butter little by little, keeping the mixer running, ensuring that each piece is completely absorbed by the dough before adding another . Finally, add the salt
and the flaxseeds and continue to work until the dough detaches from the sides of the bowl . Transfer the dough to a lightly floured work surface and knead it quickly with your hands to form a nice smooth ball .
Transfer the ball of dough to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap and let rise at room temperature for about 1 and a half hours. After the rising time, place the dough on the lightly floured surface and divide it into 3 equal parts . Roll each portion of dough between your hands to form a perfect and firm sphere .
Oil a loaf or bread pan measuring 10x4 inches and place the 3 dough spheres inside , then cover with plastic wrap and let rise at a temperature of 78°F-80°F (for example, in the turned-off oven with the light on) until the dough reaches the edges of the pan ; it will take at least 1 and a half hours.
Once risen, brush the surface of the dough with the milk and yolk mixture you have beaten together , sprinkle with flaxseeds and bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for about 45 minutes, placing it on the lower shelf. To check the cooking, you can use a kitchen thermometer: when the center reaches 205°F you can remove your brioche bread from the oven and let it cool. Once cooled, remove the flaxseed brioche bread from the pan and enjoy it as you like !
The flaxseed brioche bread can be stored for about 2 days covered with plastic wrap. You can freeze it once cooked. The water roux can be prepared in advance; any leftover can be stored in the refrigerator for up to a week.
If you wish, you can also make the brioche bread with type 1 flour and replace or add other varieties of oilseeds to the flaxseeds, such as sesame or sunflower seeds.
The water roux, or tangzhong , is a Japanese technique that became popular thanks to a book published in 2007 titled '65°C Bread Doctor'. The title refers to the temperature that the mixture of water and flour must reach before being removed from the heat, which is 149°F; alternatively to the thermometer, you can gauge by the consistency of the mixture, which should become gelatinous and almost transparent. The advantages of water roux are numerous: doughs made with this technique are well hydrated and particularly elastic and give the final product remarkable softness. Leavened products also remain soft longer; however, it may take more time to achieve the right leavening. To make the water roux you need to use a combination of flour and water in a ratio of 1 to 5: for this recipe, we preferred to prepare a larger amount of water roux to facilitate its success, considering that the excess can be stored in the refrigerator and used within a week.

