name:
Spelt and Orange Cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Spelt flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Almond flour: ½cup(50 g)
Butter: 0.9cup(200 g)- cold
Brown sugar: 0.67cup(150 g)- white
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2)
Lemon peel: ½
Fine salt: 1pinch
Orange marmelade: 0.63cup(200 g)
White chocolate: 1.75oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 1 h of resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the spelt and orange cookies, first start by making the dough. Pour into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment the all-purpose flour , the spelt flour , and the white cane sugar .
Then add the butter cut into cubes and work the mixture until you get a sandy texture . Add the almond flour
and the eggs . Mix everything until you get a uniform mixture , then add the salt
and the lemon zest . Work the mixture again and transfer the dough to a lightly floured surface and wrap it in plastic wrap . Place in the fridge to rest for about 1 hour.
After the resting time, transfer the dough to a floured surface and divide it in half . Wrap one half again in plastic wrap and place it in the fridge. Then roll out the remaining dough to form a rectangle about 1/4 inch thick . Transfer the orange jam into a pastry bag
and use it to make small mounds on the dough rectangle, spacing them about 2 inches apart (16-17). Take the reserved dough and roll it out as well : you should get a rectangle of the same size as the previous one, still 1/4 inch thick.
Using a little flour, roll it onto a rolling pin and place it over the other, covering it completely (19-20). Gently pressing with your hands, adhere the dough well around the jam .
Place a 2 1/2 inch fluted cutter in the center of each dome and cut out your cookies . Arrange them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F on the middle shelf for 20 minutes. Then switch to the fan setting and finish baking for another 5 minutes. If you don't have a fan oven, you can increase the temperature to 365°F-375°F to brown them more, always for 5 minutes. When they are well browned, remove your spelt and orange cookies from the oven and let them cool completely.
Only when they are completely cool can you proceed with the decoration. Chop the white chocolate and melt it in a double boiler . Then transfer it to a parchment paper cone
and close the end . Cut a tiny bit off the tip of the cone and use it to decorate the cookies, squeezing the chocolate in a zigzag pattern . Repeat on all the other cookies and refrigerate for at least 5 minutes to let the chocolate dry before serving. Your spelt and orange cookies are ready to enjoy!
Spelt and orange cookies can be stored for up to a week in an airtight container. You can freeze the dough.
To make working with the dough easier, it's advisable to prepare it the day before. To make the cookie shape more defined, let them rest in the refrigerator for 5 minutes before baking. For a more wholemeal and rustic cookie, replace all-purpose flour with the same amount of whole wheat or type 1 flour.

