name:
Vegan Tartlets
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Vegan butter: 5.7tbsp(80 g)- soy-based
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Water: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Baking powder: 0.9tsp(4 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Fine salt: 1pinch
Soy milk: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Brown sugar: ⅓cup(70 g)- white
Cornstarch: 5tbsp(40 g)
Orange peel: ½
Dark chocolate: 1oz(30 g)
Raspberries: to taste
Blackberries: to taste
Almond slices: to taste
Chopped walnuts: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + time to prepare vegan butter and resting times for the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
To prepare the vegan tartlets, first make the Vegan Butter . Then take care of the dough: place the brown sugar in a small bowl with the water , stir with a teaspoon to dissolve it . Then add the flour to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment.
the baking powder and the vegan butter cut into cubes . Mix the ingredients for a few seconds ,
then add the sugar dissolved in the water . Add the vanilla bean seeds and the salt .
Work the mixture again until you obtain a homogeneous dough . Then transfer the dough to a slightly floured work surface and form a loaf; wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour.
In the meantime, prepare the cream. First, chop the dark chocolate and set it aside in a small bowl . Then pour the sugar and the soy milk into a saucepan.
Then take the zest of half an orange using a peeler and without taking the white part . Add it to the saucepan along with the seeds you extracted from the vanilla bean and the emptied pod . Then pour in the cornstarch
and mix with a whisk until the cream thickens . As soon as it starts to boil, remove it from the heat, and strain it with a spatula .
At this point, while it is still very hot, transfer half of it (about 165 g) to the bowl with the chocolate and mix with a spatula until the chocolate is completely melted . If during straining the cream has cooled down, heat it in the microwave for a few seconds. Cover both creams with plastic wrap and let them cool in the refrigerator.
In the meantime, take the dough and roll it out on a floured surface until it is 1/8 inch thick. Take 8 tart molds with a diameter of 4 inches and place one at the corner of the shortcrust pastry. Then with a knife, outline a circumference that is slightly larger than your mold . If you prefer, you can use a pastry cutter. Then transfer the shortcrust pastry disk inside the first mold, pressing it well against the edges with your fingers .
Then remove the excess dough from the edges with a small knife and prick the base with a fork . Repeat this operation for the other tartlets and bake them in a fan oven at 340°F (170°C) for 15-20 minutes until they are golden brown.
Then remove them from the oven and let them cool for about ten minutes before turning them out . Transfer the two creams into two piping bags and fill the first 4 tartlets with the plain cream .
Smooth the surface with a teaspoon . Then place some blackberries in a small bowl and sprinkle them with powdered sugar , then place them on your tartlets and decorate with almond flakes .
Fill the other 4 tartlets with chocolate cream , smooth the surface , and decorate with raspberries and chopped nuts. The vegan tartlets are ready to be served !
The filled vegan tartlets can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 2-3 days. The dough can be made ahead of time and frozen.
You can make the dough the day before to make the process easier. It is possible to create an additional version of the tartlets by making a cocoa shortcrust, replacing 20 g of flour with 20 g of cocoa. Additionally, you can flavor the cream with orange zest, cinnamon, rum, or hazelnut cream.

