name:
Tuna carpaccio with passion fruit sauce
ingredients:
Tuna filet: 3.5oz(100 g)
Avocado: ½
White bread loaf: 1slice
Passion fruit: 1
Lime: 1
Fresh ginger: 1- piece
Tabasco®: a few- drop
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tsp(10 g)
Brown sugar: ½tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Dill: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 2
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the tuna carpaccio with passion fruit sauce, start with the marinade. Cut a lime in half and squeeze it . Peel the ginger and grate the pulp into the bowl of a mixer, then add the lime juice .
Cut the passion fruit in half and squeeze it into the bowl . Add the Tabasco sauce ,
salt, pepper, and oil , brown sugar , and turn on the mixer to get the mixture .
Pour the cream into a container with a sieve inside and strain it using a spoon . Set the sauce aside for marinating and move on to the tuna: ensure it has been previously frozen. Thinly slice the tuna and place it in a container .
Sprinkle the slices with the sauce, cover with plastic wrap, and let marinate while you handle the rest . Cut the bread first in two parts , then in half again diagonally to get 4 triangles .
Place the bread slices in a baking dish and bake in a fan oven at 392°F for about ten minutes, ensuring the triangles turn golden without burning . Finally, clean the avocado. Cut it lengthwise around the central seed. Twist the halves in opposite directions to separate, then remove the seed .
Remove the peel by running a spoon between the peel and the flesh or using your fingers , then thinly slice . Get the tuna again
and arrange the slices on the plate using tongs or a fork, trying to add some movement to the slices . Add the avocado slices, twisting them slightly to create a curl , and garnish with the toasted bread slices and the sauce in a small glass, optionally garnished with passion fruit and dill. Your carpaccio with passion fruit sauce is ready: enjoy your meal .
For the tuna carpaccio with passion fruit sauce, it is not recommended to store either the tuna or the fresh fruit or sauce in any form.
If you want to enrich your tuna carpaccio with passion fruit sauce, accompany it with fresh chili peppers cut into strips and seeds removed, or alternatively, with a spicy jalapeno: a pleasant spicy kick!
A crunchy note could come from some toasted fruit in a pan: almonds are perfect!

