name:
Baked Eggplant Meatballs
ingredients:
Eggplant: 3.3lbs(1.5 kg)
Eggs: 3
Stale bread: 1.3cups(160 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- (to grate)
Garlic: 1clove
Tomato paste: 1tsp
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 2.7tbsp(20 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(40 g)- to be grated

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time for the eggplants (about 15 min.) and resting time for the meatballs (30 min.)

instructions:
To prepare the baked eggplant meatballs, wash the eggplants, dry them, and cut them first into slices and then into cubes . Blanch them in salted boiling water for about 5 minutes.
Once cooked, let them drain in a colander and press well to remove as much water as possible . To make it easier, you can let them cool and then squeeze them with your hands .
Place them in a blender and blend quickly until you get a cream . Transfer to a sieve with a cheesecloth and let them drain further .
Moisten the bread with a little water . Put the eggplants in a bowl with the beaten eggs and the grated pecorino cheese .
Also add the chopped parsley , tomato paste, garlic , salt , and pepper.
Add the well-squeezed stale bread and mix . Knead with your hands if necessary until you obtain a homogeneous mixture . Cover the mixture with plastic wrap and let it rest for half an hour in the refrigerator.
In a bowl, mix the breadcrumbs with the Parmesan cheese. After the resting time, form meatballs of 1.25 oz each and roll them one by one in the bread and cheese mixture .
Gradually place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper ; with these doses, you should obtain about 36. Bake at 400°F in a preheated static oven for 30 minutes. When they are well golden, remove the baked eggplant meatballs from the oven and serve them hot !
Baked eggplant meatballs can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. Alternatively, they can be frozen either raw or cooked.
For an extra crunchy browning, you can brush the meatballs with an emulsion of extra virgin olive oil.
If you want to make them even more delicious, add a cheese cube in the center and serve them with a small bowl of sauce!

