name:
Pumpkin and Chocolate Tartlets
ingredients:
Delica pumpkin: 0.9cup(210 g)- to clean
Rice flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Almond flour: ½cup(50 g)
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Almond milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Vegetable oil: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (approximately 1 medium)
Baking powder: 1 ¾tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Dark chocolate: 5.25oz(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(120 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time in the refrigerator for the ganache (at least 30 min.)

instructions:
To prepare the pumpkin and chocolate tartlets, first clean the pumpkin and cut it into chunks : you will need 160 grams of cleaned pumpkin. Transfer the pumpkin to a tall, narrow container, add the seed oil and almond milk
and blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth cream . Now pour the brown sugar into the bowl of a stand mixer with a paddle attachment , add the egg , and work at low speed until the mixture is light and fluffy.
Add the pumpkin cream and work again to combine it. At this point, sift the rice flour and the baking powder into the bowl,
also add the almond flour and work everything to incorporate the powders into the mixture. Finally, add the salt and work again until the mixture is smooth and uniform .
Butter and flour 4 round molds with a diameter of 4 inches and a height of 1.2 inches, fill them with the mixture up to three-quarters , and place them on the oven rack that you have preheated to 340°F in static mode . Bake the tartlets for about 20 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the ganache: finely chop the dark chocolate with a knife , then pour the cream into a saucepan and bring it to a simmer . Transfer the chopped chocolate into a bowl, pour the hot cream over the chocolate
and mix vigorously with a spatula until you obtain a cream . Blend the obtained cream with an immersion blender to make it smoother and shinier , then cover it with cling film touching the surface and let it cool in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes.
When the tartlets are cooked, remove them from the oven and let them cool, then remove them from the molds and cut them in half transversely. Transfer the chocolate ganache into a piping bag and fill the lower half of the tartlets , then cover them with the other half .
To create an original decoration, cover part of the surface of the tartlets with a sheet of paper and dust with powdered sugar (25-26). Your pumpkin and chocolate tartlets are ready to be enjoyed !
The pumpkin and chocolate tartlets can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days; in this case, let them sit at room temperature for at least 30 minutes before serving. The baked and unfrosted tartlets can be frozen after they have completely cooled.
If you wish, you can flavor the chocolate ganache with some orange zest or a few drops of liqueur.

