name:
Chocolate and Pistachio Roll
ingredients:
Eggs: 7.8oz(220 g)- (approximately 4 medium)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 5tbsp(25 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(35 g)
Wildflower honey: 1 ½tsp(10 g)
Water: 1spoonful
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
White chocolate: 1 ¾cup(300 g)
Pistachio cream: 5tbsp(70 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.625cup(150 g)
Dark chocolate: 6.5oz(185 g)
Pistachios: ¼cup(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 8
Cost: High
Note + 120 minutes of setting

instructions:
To make the chocolate and pistachio roll, first prepare the base by following our Cocoa biscuit dough recipe: separate the yolks (they should weigh about 80 g) from the egg whites (they should weigh about 120 g); in the bowl with the yolks add the honey, water, vanilla extract, and 2 tbsps of sugar taken from the total amount . Beat everything with electric whisks until it is light and very fluffy. Set aside, clean the whisks well, then in another bowl pour the egg whites and the remaining amount of sugar (1/4 cup) .
Beat again with well-cleaned electric whisks to obtain a white and fluffy mixture; beat the egg whites until they are not too stiff. Combine the two mixtures by gently folding with a spatula from bottom to top to avoid deflating the mixture . In a separate small bowl, sift the flour together with the cocoa powder ,
add the powders to the batter and mix the mixture very carefully to avoid deflating it . Pour the batter onto a baking sheet measuring 18x15 inches, slightly greased and lined with parchment paper . Spread the batter on the tray evenly, leveling it with a smooth and flat spatula until you reach a thickness of 0.4 inches. Bake the cocoa sponge cake in a preheated static oven at 428°F for 6-7 minutes (no longer) in the center of the oven; the surface of the cake should become just golden, and you should never open the oven as it will retain moisture inside.
Remove the sponge cake from the oven, let it cool completely. Once cooled, remove it from the tray, place it with all the parchment paper on a work surface; then trim the edges with a knife . Move on to the cream: finely chop the white chocolate and place it in a large bowl. In a saucepan, heat the cream and bring it to a boil , then turn off the heat.
Pour the cream over the white chocolate in two times and mix well. Add the pistachio cream and blend everything with an immersion blender
to obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream . Cover the cream with cling film in contact and let it set in the fridge for at least 2 hours (or until it is well set). After the necessary time, remove the film and mix the cream, which should have a rather dense consistency .
With electric whisks, lightly whip the cream (work it for about 30 seconds) to make it more airy and lighter (do not exceed the indicated time or it might curdle). Fill the cocoa sponge cake with the cream, spreading it evenly with a spatula .
Roll the sponge cake from the shorter side tightly but carefully to avoid breaking it (22-23); once rolled , wrap it with parchment paper and place in the fridge for about 30 minutes.
In the meantime, take care of the coating: chop the pistachios and the dark chocolate , melt the chocolate in the microwave or bain-marie .
After resting time, take the roll from the fridge, place it on a wire rack making sure to position parchment paper underneath, pour the melted chocolate (cooled) on the surface of the roll , then garnish with chopped pistachios . Let it set, then serve your delicious chocolate and pistachio roll !
The chocolate and pistachio roll can be stored for about 3 days in the refrigerator. It is possible to freeze the cocoa sponge cake base. You can prepare the cocoa sponge cake 1-2 days in advance and store it well sealed in plastic wrap in the fridge so it doesn't dry out. The ganache can also be prepared in advance. If you prefer a firmer texture of the cake, you can make it the day before and store it in the fridge so that 12 hours of rest are enough to create the right degree of crystallization.
You can enrich the white chocolate and pistachio ganache with dark chocolate chips or chopped pistachios to create a delightful contrast of textures.
Pistachio cream can be purchased in stores selling pastry products as well as in the best supermarkets.

