name:
Fortune Cookies
ingredients:
Sugar: 9tbsp(110 g)
Egg whites: 2.5oz(75 g)- (from two medium eggs)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(75 g)
Rice flour: ⅛cup(20 g)
Cornstarch: 1.67tbsp(13 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Vanilla extract: 1drop
Water: 1drop

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 13 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Low
Note the cooking time refers to only 2 pieces

instructions:
To make fortune cookies, first prepare the batter: pour the egg whites and sugar into a bowl and beat with a whisk to combine them, but do not whip them to stiff peaks . Add the oil
and vanilla flavoring and mix again . Now sift the all-purpose flour, rice flour, and cornstarch into the bowl
and work with the whisk to blend the powders into the mixture . Finally, add a pinch of water and mix further . The batter should be quite thick.
Preheat the oven to 340°F in static mode. Meanwhile, line a baking sheet with parchment paper (if you have one, you can use a silicone mat), pour a tablespoon of batter on it and spread it evenly with the back of the spoon without leaving holes , until you get a circle with a diameter of 4 inches . You can spread another one a few inches away from the other. Do not bake more than two discs at a time to ease the subsequent steps. Once the oven has reached the temperature, bake the cookies for about 10 minutes: the baking time may vary slightly from cookie to cookie, so before taking them out, make sure the edge is golden and the surface is slightly colored .
Once removed from the oven, turn them over to the other side and place the note in the center, while the cookie is still hot . Gently bring the edges together to fold the cookie in half with the note inside, but without completely matching the ends . Use the rim of a cup to press on the bottom part of the cookie
and fold the two ends down, then gently press the edges to seal it . Place the cookies you formed inside a muffin mold and let them cool to maintain their shape . Once cooled, your fortune cookies are ready to be enjoyed !
Fortune cookies can be stored in a tin can or a paper bag for about 5 days. Other forms of storage are not recommended.
To spread the batter evenly, it is advisable to preheat the baking sheet slightly. Alternatively, you can use a silicone mat that will allow you to obtain smoother cookies on the surface; in this case, the preparation method and baking times remain unchanged. Don't worry if you don't get an optimal result on your first attempts, you'll get the hang of it!
Fortune cookies are actually not well known in China and Japan and have mainly spread in Chinese restaurants in Western countries.

