name:
Beetroot croquettes
ingredients:
Precooked beets: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Stale bread: 16.6oz(470 g)
Potatoes: 7oz(200 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Fine salt: 1 ¼tsp(7 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ¾cup(80 g)- to grate
Thyme: 1sprig
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2oz(60 g)- to grate
Fresh liquid cream: 0.6cup(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the beetroot croquettes, the first thing to do is boil the potatoes. It will take about 30 minutes, depending on their size. To check the cooking, you can prick them with the tines of a fork. As soon as they are cooked , drain them and let them cool slightly. Remove the crust from the bread to obtain about 370 g (13 oz) of the crumb and cut it into cubes .
Then cut the beetroot first into slices and then into cubes , then set them aside . Now peel the potatoes .
and mash them in another bowl . Then transfer them to a blender together with the ricotta and the beetroot .
Blend everything until you get a uniform mixture . Then add the egg ,
the salt and the bread cubes . Blend again ,
then add the Parmesan cheese and turn the mixer on again until you get a smooth and soft cream. Transfer the mixture to a bowl, add the black pepper and thyme leaves . With a spoon, take about 50 g (1.8 oz) of the mixture
and with the help of another spoon, form a sort of quenelle . Then pass it in the breadcrumbs to coat it entirely and slightly press the edges .
Place them on a tray and proceed with the others. At this point, pour abundant seed oil in a pan and put it on the stove until it reaches a temperature of about 284-302°F. As soon as the oil is hot, immerse a few pieces at a time with the help of a slotted spoon . Cook the beetroot croquettes for a couple of minutes until they are well golden. Then drain them on a sheet of absorbent paper to remove excess oil.
Finish frying the croquettes and in the meantime prepare the accompanying sauce. Pour the Parmesan into a small saucepan, add the cream and mix everything .
Let it cook for a few minutes, stirring occasionally, until the cream has slightly thickened . At this point, the croquettes will also be ready, salt them to taste and serve them with the cheese cream .
You can store the cooked croquettes in the refrigerator for a maximum of 1-2 days. Alternatively, you can freeze them raw.
To give the croquettes a more vibrant color, you can use purple potatoes instead of the usual ones. If you prefer stronger flavors, you can replace the thyme with chives.

