name:
Citrus Jam
ingredients:
Oranges: 4.4lbs(2 kg)- Navel
Mandarin oranges: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Sugar: 1.7cups(340 g)
Cinnamon sticks: 2
Vanilla bean: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + cooling times for the jam

instructions:
To prepare the citrus jam, start by sanitizing the jars as indicated by the Ministry of Health . Then, peel the oranges thoroughly . Cut the peel of one orange into thin strips . Boil water in a small pot and blanch the strips you have obtained for a couple of minutes .
Then drain them and repeat the operation, boiling fresh water and blanching the peels again: by repeating the process with new water, you will remove a percentage of the bitter taste from the peel. Drain the peels again and set aside . Extract the pulp segments of the oranges , trying to preserve the juice that comes out (you can collect it in a bowl).
Then squeeze the juice from all the mandarins , filter it, and pour it into a saucepan ; add the orange pulp and their juice as well ,
the sugar , the cinnamon sticks , and the vanilla bean seeds .
Mix the ingredients ; turn on the heat to medium-low and bring to a light boil: cook like this for 35 minutes. After 35 minutes, you can also add the orange peels . Stir, then remove the vanilla pod and the cinnamon sticks.
Cook for another 35 minutes approximately: you will need to check the temperature with a kitchen thermometer: when it reaches 108°F , the citrus jam will be ready. You can store it, still hot, in the just sanitized jars using a funnel . Proceed by tightly screwing the jars and letting the jam cool completely. Make sure, before consumption, that the lids do not make the classic "click-clack" sound when pressed in the center, indicating that the vacuum seal has not occurred correctly. For these and other instructions, we always refer to the information regarding homemade preserves from the Ministry of Health.
Store the citrus jam in the pantry for up to 5 months. Always check before consumption that the vacuum seal has been maintained over time. Homemade jams with a sugar content lower than the total weight of the fruit have shorter shelf lives compared to those with an equal dose of sugar and fruit, which can last up to a year. If the jar has been opened, store the jam in the fridge and consume it within 3 weeks.
The homemade preparation of preserves and jams can present health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of the food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures can assure to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to meticulously follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it must always be remembered that the same food safety found in professionally produced preserves and jams cannot be achieved. For correct preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

