name:
Baked chicken breast with scamorza
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.8lbs(800 g)- whole
Smoked scamorza cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 1lb(450 g)
Breadcrumbs: 4tbsp(30 g)
Sage: 4leaves
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Thyme: 3sprigs
Orange juice: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Oregano: to taste- fresh

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the oven-baked chicken breast with scamorza, start by removing the fattier parts of the chicken and the central cartilage . Wash and dry the cherry tomatoes, then cut them in half . Squeeze the juice from the orange and set it aside.
Finely chop the sage, rosemary, and thyme , then add them to the breadcrumbs . Add salt , pepper, and mix to flavor the breadcrumb coating.
Pour the olive oil into a pan ensuring it's suitable for oven cooking , heat on the stove and then place the chicken breast and let it brown for 4 minutes on each side .
At this point, flavor with the orange juice and continue cooking for another 2 minutes. Cover the breast with the herb-flavored breadcrumb coating , making sure to distribute it evenly over the meat .
Add the halved cherry tomatoes and fresh oregano to the pan. Now place the chicken in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 25 minutes, make sure your pan is suitable for oven use otherwise use a baking dish. Meanwhile, cut the scamorza into thin slices ;
after the first 15 minutes, remove the chicken and baste it with the cooking juices, then return it to the oven. After the 25 minutes, turn on the grill and cook for 4-5 minutes to brown the top of the chicken . Now take the pan out of the oven, place the scamorza slices on top of the chicken , and put it back in the oven to melt for another 2 minutes to achieve a bubbling effect. The oven-baked chicken breast with scamorza is now ready to be served !
Store the chicken in the refrigerator for up to a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of orange juice, you can use white wine to deglaze the chicken during cooking. For optimal chicken cooking, we recommend using a probe to monitor the internal temperature of the meat, which should be 156°F.

