name:
Green orecchiette
ingredients:
Broccoli rabe: 10.5oz(300 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 12.3oz(350 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Green Peperoncino: 1pinch
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 15 min. of dough resting time

instructions:
To prepare the green orecchiette, first of all, you need to clean the turnip greens: for this recipe, you'll only need the leaves and inflorescences, so separate them from the stems and rinse them under running water. Add a drizzle of oil to a pan, crush a clove of garlic and let it briefly flavor the oil, then add the turnip greens .
Salt and cook over medium heat for about 10-15 minutes, using a ladle of water to help. Add a pinch of chili pepper as well.
Once the turnip greens have softened, transfer them to a tall, narrow container and add some water until you reach a total weight of 280 g (about 10 oz) , then blend with an immersion blender to obtain a rather liquid puree .
At this point, place the semolina in a bowl and make a well in the center , pour the turnip greens puree into the center , and work it with your fingertips to incorporate it .
Once well mixed , transfer the dough to a pastry board and continue working it until it becomes nice and firm and elastic, then cover it with a kitchen towel and let it rest at room temperature for about 15 minutes. After the resting time, take a portion of dough and keep the remaining covered so it doesn't dry out.
Lightly flour the pastry board and work the portion of dough with both hands to form a loaf about 1 cm (roughly 0.4 inches) thick , then cut it into equally sized pieces . Take one piece at a time and press it with a smooth-bladed knife, simultaneously dragging it towards you .
Flip the little shell over itself and you'll have your first orecchietta! Continue this way to form all the orecchiette until the dough is used up, placing them one by one on a drying rack or a cutting board . Once formed , cover them with a light kitchen towel that allows air to pass through and let them dry overnight, after which your green orecchiette will be ready to be packaged and given as gifts!
Once dried, you can store the green orecchiette for about a month. Alternatively, you can freeze them on a tray, keeping them well-spaced, to later transfer them into freezer bags.
The green orecchiette will be delicious with a simple fresh tomato sauce, but we also recommend trying them with a garlic, oil, chili, and anchovy sauce or tossed with a bit of stracciatella cheese and garnished with crispy breadcrumbs! As for the cooking time, it may vary depending on the freshness and thickness of the orecchiette: if boiled as soon as made, 5 minutes will suffice, otherwise, it will take about 10-15 minutes. Don't throw away the turnip greens’ stems: you can use them to make a tasty soup or an omelet or to prepare a delicious pesto following the instructions in the Tomino burger recipe!

