name:
Gluten-free Muffins
ingredients:
Venere rice flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Chestnut flour: 1cup(120 g)
Cornstarch: 0.8cup(100 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Greek yogurt: 0.9cup(200 g)- at room temperature
Whole milk: 0.67cup(160 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 2- medium (at room temperature)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(5 g)- gluten-free
Cranberries: 1.4cups(150 g)- dehydrated

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average
Note For this recipe, we recommend purchasing only products that display the crossed-out ear symbol on the packaging and are recommended by the AIC guideline.

instructions:
To make the gluten-free muffins, first rinse the blueberries, place them in a bowl, cover with lukewarm water , and let them rehydrate for the time needed to prepare the batter (about 10 minutes). Meanwhile, melt the butter over low heat in a saucepan; once melted, let it cool. In a bowl, add the room-temperature whole eggs and sugar ,
whip the mixture with electric beaters until light and fluffy , at this point incorporate the melted, now cooled, butter and the room-temperature Greek yogurt .
Continue whipping the mixture with the electric beaters and when the yogurt is well incorporated, add the dry ingredients while continuing to beat: the black rice flour , corn starch ,
baking powder (gluten-free) , and chestnut flour . Now slowly pour in the room-temperature milk .
Once the milk is absorbed, the batter will be smooth and homogeneous . Now it's time to retrieve the blueberries: drain them well and squeeze gently, then add them to the batter and mix with a spatula to combine. The batter will be thick.
Place paper liners in a 12-muffin tin, spoon the batter into the liners with the help of a ladle . Once all the molds are filled , bake the treats in a preheated static oven at 355°F for 30 minutes. After the baking time, remove your gluten-free muffins and let them cool before serving !
Store the gluten-free muffins under a glass dome and consume them within a couple of days. You can freeze your muffins after baking.
If you can't find black rice flour or simply don't like it, you can replace it with rice flour, hazelnut flour, or buckwheat flour. Try your muffins also with fresh blueberries or indulgent pieces of dark chocolate.
For gluten-free recipes, we recommend purchasing only products that bear the crossed-out ear on the package, certified gluten-free, recommended by the AIC Italian Celiac Association's manual.

