name:
Mini apple and almond tatins
ingredients:
Fuji Apples: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (about 2 large)
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- (1 roll)
Almond slices: ⅓cup(30 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)- at room temperature

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 4 pieces

instructions:
To make the mini apple and almond tatins, first prepare the butter caramel: pour the sugar into a thick-bottomed stainless steel or copper saucepan and let it melt over medium heat without stirring, just gently shaking the pan occasionally . After about 5 minutes, you will have a golden caramel, then remove the pan from the heat and add the room temperature butter .
Stir with a wooden spoon to mix everything well , then immediately pour the butter caramel into 4 molds with a diameter of 4 inches .
Rotate the molds to distribute the caramel evenly across the base and set them aside for now. Now take a non-stick pan, add the sliced almonds , and briefly toast them over high heat, being careful not to burn them: the almonds should just get some color .
Wash and dry the apples, cut them in half , and then into quarters. Remove the core and slice each quarter into slices about 1/8 inch thick .
At this point, you can move on to assembling the mini tatins. Take the molds and cover the caramel base with a first layer of apple slices , then add some toasted almonds , and continue alternating layers of apples and almonds until the ingredients are used up, ending with a layer of apples : with these quantities, you will get 4 layers for each mold.
Take the roll of puff pastry and with a pastry cutter slightly larger than the mold for the mini tatins (we used one with a diameter of 4.3 inches) cut out 4 discs . Place the puff pastry discs in the molds over the apple layer , folding the edges inward
and prick the surface with the tip of a knife . Place the molds on a baking sheet and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 35 minutes, until the pastry is nicely golden . After baking, remove the molds from the oven and let them cool for about 15 minutes, then tilt them slightly to drain any excess liquid, being careful not to burn yourself. Unmold the mini apple and almond tatins and serve to your guests, perhaps accompanied by a scoop of vanilla ice cream !
We recommend consuming the mini apple and almond tatins immediately to enjoy their fragrance at its best. If necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
As an alternative to puff pastry, you can choose to use Shortcrust pastry or a neutral dough like Easy Shortcrust Pastry or Foolproof dough to make your mini apple and almond tatins. Some tips for making the butter caramel: make sure the sugar is completely melted before removing it from the heat, but at the same time do not let the caramel get too dark. If the butter and caramel do not emulsify well, just add a few drops of water; if the caramel solidifies too quickly once poured into the molds, just heat it briefly on the stove to liquefy it again... be very careful not to burn yourself!

