name:
Baked Cod
ingredients:
Codfish: 1.5lbs(680 g)- desalted
Brussels sprouts: 0.5lb(250 g)
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Sage: 1sprig
Leeks: ½
Mustard: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
White wine: 0.4cup(90 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6 ½tbsp(90 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the baked cod, first cut the cod fillet (already desalted) into four pieces (1-2). Wash and slice the leek .
Wash the Brussels sprouts, remove the outer leaves if they are a bit wilted, then cut them in half . Finely chop sage and rosemary . Set aside these ingredients and focus on the dressing sauce: in a tall glass, pour the white wine ,
the mustard, the olive oil , and half of the chopped herbs as per the recipe . Blend everything with an immersion blender
until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous sauce . In a bowl, mix the leek with the Brussels sprouts and dress with part of the emulsion ; adjust the salt but moderately , considering that the cod, even when desalted, will still be quite savory.
In a baking dish lightly oiled at the bottom, pour the already seasoned side dish and place the cod fillets in the center , which you will drizzle with the remaining emulsion .
Add pepper and distribute the rest of the aromatic herbs . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 35-40 minutes (check the cooking from time to time, as it may vary depending on the size of the fillets). Once cooked, remove the baking dish from the oven and serve the baked cod hot, accompanied by the vegetable side dish !
It is preferable to consume the baked cod within one day. Freezing is not recommended.
If you purchased salted cod, proceed with soaking by following the instructions found in our guide " How to Desalt Cod ". Not a fan of Brussels sprouts? Replace them with other seasonal vegetables like celeriac or diced pumpkin. To give a different aromatic note to the sauce, try substituting the wine with beer!

