name:
Sticky toffee pudding
ingredients:
Dates: 1 ½cup(250 g)- pitted
Muscovado sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Butter: 1cup(240 g)- at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(225 g)
Molasses: ⅓cup(100 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Baking powder: 1tsp(4 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(200 g)
Molasses: 0.4cup(120 g)
Butter: 1.75oz(50 g)- at room temperature
Muscovado sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the sticky toffee pudding, first, heat the water in a small saucepan. Place the dates in a bowl, pour the hot water over them , and let them soak for about 10 minutes. After this time, blend the dates along with the soaking water using an immersion blender until they become a puree .
Proceed to prepare the batter: in a bowl, combine the muscovado sugar with the softened butter and mix the ingredients with an electric whisk. While keeping the whisk running, add the molasses , the flour ,
the baking powder , and the eggs, one at a time, continuing to mix the batter with the electric whisk . Finally, add the date puree
and continue to mix well until you achieve a smooth batter . Butter a baking pan measuring 9.5x9.5 inches with a height of approximately 2 inches , pour the batter into it, and level it with a spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 50 minutes.
Meanwhile, you can prepare the sauce: put the cream in a small saucepan, add the molasses , and cook over gentle heat, stirring well with a hand whisk, then add the muscovado sugar and continue to stir over medium heat until it reaches a boil. At this point, add the butter and stir for about 1 minute so that it thickens slightly, then remove it from the heat.
Once the cake's baking time is up, remove it from the oven and let it cool slightly in the mold , then turn it out onto a cutting board and cut it into 12 equal-sized cubes . Transfer the cubes onto a wire rack and pour a generous amount of sauce over them so it is absorbed by the batter .
At this point, distribute part of the remaining sauce on the serving plates , place the cubes on top, and drizzle them further with the sauce : your sticky toffee pudding is ready to be served with a fresh scoop of vanilla ice cream !
The sticky toffee pudding can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. You can freeze the cubes without the topping sauce.
You can substitute molasses with honey, but in this case, the color of the dessert and sauce will be lighter. The batter can be flavored with spices such as nutmeg, cinnamon, star anise, and juniper berries. If you want to give the dessert an even more distinctive flavor, instead of soaking the dates in hot water, try using black tea or coffee!
Sticky toffee pudding is a dessert very popular in England, Scotland, and Ireland, but it seems that the recipe actually has Canadian origins: it was initially thought to have been invented by Francis Coulson, who had been serving this dessert at his hotel in Sharrow Bay, in the Lake District, since 1970. Later it was discovered that the recipe was suggested to him by a lady from Lancashire who had hosted Canadian soldiers during World War II.

