name:
Sardinian Ricotta Buns
ingredients:
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: 0.8cup(200 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Water: 0.625cup(150 g)- warm
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¼tsp(7 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 3 hours of rising time

instructions:
To prepare the Sardinian ricotta buns, start by pouring the lukewarm water into a bowl , dissolve the yeast in it , add the all-purpose flour
and the semolina and start kneading roughly with your hands. Before the mixture is well mixed, add the salt and continue kneading until you get a homogeneous dough that should be very soft. If necessary, finish kneading on a lightly floured work surface or a pastry board. Form a ball with the dough ,
place it in a clean bowl, cover it with plastic wrap and let it rise for at least 3 hours in a dry place or inside the turned-off oven with the light on. After the rising time, the dough will have doubled in volume , place the dough on the floured surface, gently spread and stretch it
and place the sheep's ricotta in the center : it's normal for the dough to be quite sticky. Close the dough gently by folding the edges without further kneading, the ricotta should not mix with the dough . Once the final ball is formed ,
divide it into 4 equal parts with a dough scraper , shape them into balls, place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper, sprinkle each bun generously with all-purpose flour on top and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 35 minutes or until they are golden brown on top ; be careful not to open the oven while checking the crust's color. Once cooked, let your Sardinian ricotta buns cool slightly and then serve them!
Store your buns in a paper bag and consume them within 2 days. You can freeze them after baking.
To add a touch of extra flavor to these soft buns, you can try adding a chop of aromatic herbs to taste, or some lemon zest.

