name:
One-pot chicken and vegetables
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.3lbs(580 g)- whole
Potatoes: 1lb(450 g)
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 4.6oz(130 g)
Precooked beets: 1oz(30 g)
Spelt: 0.67cup(100 g)- precooked
Vegetable broth: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Fresh ginger: 0.4oz(10 g)
Shallot: 1
Sage: 2leaves
Pumpkin seeds: 1tbsp(8 g)
Wildflower honey: 1tbsp(15 g)
Powdered turmeric: 1 ¼tsp(6 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the time to prepare the vegetable broth

instructions:
To make the one-pot chicken and vegetables, first prepare a light Vegetable broth , then take care of the rest of the ingredients: cut the chicken breast in half, remove the fattier parts and the central cartilage , then slice it into strips and finally into medium-sized cubes .
Peel the potatoes and cut them into irregular chunks , then wash the kale and cut it into strips . Peel the shallot and slice it into rings .
Peel the fresh ginger and cut it into strips , then wash the sage and also cut it into strips . Finally, cut the beetroot into irregular chunks .
Heat a drizzle of oil in a large pan, add the shallot and ginger and sauté for a few seconds, then add the potatoes and a ladle of broth and cook on low heat for 5 minutes.
Now add the kale and the chicken breast , mix well, pour in another ladle of broth, and increase the heat to medium. Add the sage , salt, and let it cook for about 10 more minutes, adding more broth if the liquid evaporates too much.
Meanwhile, put the turmeric and honey in a bowl, dilute with a ladle of broth and mix everything with a teaspoon , then pour the resulting mixture into the pan .
Mix well, further extend with broth, cover with a lid , and let cook for about 15 minutes, always on medium heat. After this time, add the farro , mix everything, and add more broth if it seems there is not enough liquid in the pan to allow the farro to cook. Continue cooking for another 15 minutes, then turn off the heat and adjust salt if necessary.
Finally, add the beetroot cubes and pumpkin seeds , pepper, give a final stir, and your one-pot chicken and vegetables is ready to be served hot !
The one-pot chicken and vegetables can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended. You can prepare the broth in advance to shorten preparation times.
You can make this recipe using the ingredients you like most or have available: pumpkin, cabbage, legumes, rice, or other types of grains... as well as the meat, which can be omitted or substituted according to your preferences!

