name:
Fennel Savory Pie
ingredients:
Eggs: 5.6oz(160 g)- (approximately 3)
Whole milk: 0.625cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.7tbsp(50 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 4.2oz(120 g)- to grate
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 2 ¼tsp(7 g)
Lemon peel: ½
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 4.2oz(120 g)
Fennel: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.25oz(35 g)- to grate
Butter: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The fennel savory pie is a recipe born from reusing leftover gratinated fennel; if you don't have fennel ready, you can make them following the recipe for Fennel au gratin with the quantities indicated in this sheet. Then take care of the dough: in a bowl, pour the eggs and milk , beat the mixture with a whisk, then add the oil and salt .
At this point also add the flour , mix the mixture well to combine it, then the grated cheese and the baking powder for savory preparations .
Continue working everything with the manual whisk until the mixture is very smooth. Add the lemon zest to the mixture and mix. Cut the scamorza into cubes . Grease a 10-inch diameter baking pan with a little oil ,
pour a little less than half of the dough onto the bottom, spreading it so that it covers the entire surface . Now add the filling of leftover gratinated fennel and 2/3 of the scamorza .
Now cover with the remaining dough, distributing it evenly with a spatula . Add the leftover scamorza and bake the pie in a static oven preheated to 350°F for about 25 minutes (or until it is golden brown on the surface). Once cooked, remove the fennel savory pie from the oven and let it cool before unmolding.
Store the fennel savory pie in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap and consume it within 2 days. You can freeze the pie after baking it.
This fridge-clearer pie can be made with any kind of leftover gratinated vegetables: potatoes, broccoli, pumpkin, radicchio, celery root, and many others.
The scamorza can be replaced with caciocavallo or provolone, and the pie can be flavored with your preferred herbs and spices.
If you have a muffin tin, you can also present it in single-serving portions... it could become a delightful vegetarian dish for Christmas lunch!

