name:
Polenta and Cotechino Timbale
ingredients:
Instant flour for polenta: 3 ⅓cups(400 g)
Precooked cotechino: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Toma cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Water: 3.3cups(800 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 3 ⅓tsp(20 g)
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Mustard: 1spoonful- poor
Black pepper: to taste
Balsamic vinegar glaze: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the polenta and cotechino timbale, you'll need a pre-cooked cotechino; if you don't have any leftover, you can make it following our instructions you find in the recipe for Cotechino (Pork sausage) with lentils . Then proceed with the preparation of the polenta: pour the water into a high-sided pot, along with the oil and salt , and heat it well. Add the flour into the pot in a rain and mix it well with a wooden spoon to avoid forming lumps .
You should obtain a rather dense polenta . Put the pre-cooked cotechino in a bowl and mash it with a fork to obtain a sort of ragù, then season it with mustard, chopped rosemary
and black pepper . Stir to flavor and set aside . Cut the toma cheese into irregular cubes .
Butter a 20 cm (8 inches) diameter and 8 cm (3 inches) high bundt pan, using a brush to grease the entire fluted edge well . Now pour part of the polenta on the bottom and sides , pressing it with slightly dampened fingers .
After lining the entire mold , fill the inside with the cotechino and cheese and cover with the remaining polenta .
Press the surface well so that it is as uniform as possible , then bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C) for 30 minutes. When cooking is complete, remove the timbale from the oven and let it cool completely, then unmold it by turning it upside down on a serving plate . Your polenta and cotechino timbale is ready, you can serve it sliced and garnished with balsamic vinegar to taste.
Store the polenta and cotechino timbale in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap and consume within 2 days maximum.
This rich polenta timbale can be filled with any kind of holiday leftovers: shank, roast, various gratinated vegetables. The same applies to the cheese which, based on the leftover you have, you can substitute as you prefer, keeping in mind that the important thing is that it is a soft or not too aged cheese.

