name:
Beetroot and Lentil Stew
ingredients:
Beets: 0.75lb(350 g)- (red beets)
Lentils: 1cup(180 g)
Chives: 56 ½tbsp(170 g)
Purple carrots: 3.5oz(100 g)
Carrots: 3oz(85 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh ginger: to taste- (1 small root)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Bay leaves: 5leaves
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Red wine: 0.9glass(125 g)- full-bodied
Water: 3cups(700 g)- approximately
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Thyme: to taste- fresh
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 2 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the beetroot and lentil stew, first, prepare all the ingredients: wash and peel the orange and purple carrots , then cut both into slices about 0.4 inches thick (2-3).
Peel the beets as well and cut them in half , then peel a small root of fresh ginger and slice it thinly .
Crush the garlic clove with the back of a knife and remove the skin. Tie the bay leaves, rosemary sprig, and cinnamon stick with kitchen twine . Finally, rinse the lentils under running water and do the same with the onions.
Now take a cast iron pot with a lid suitable for slow cooking, heat the oil and add the crushed garlic and ginger . Let them sizzle for a couple of minutes over high heat, then add the herb bundle , and shortly after, add the onions ,
the carrot slices , the lentils , and the beets .
Toast everything for a few minutes, stirring often with a wooden spoon, then deglaze with the red wine and let it evaporate. At this point, lower the heat and cover with enough water to submerge the ingredients (the amount of water will depend on the size of the pot; we used about 2 cups for a 20 cm diameter pot) . Cover with the lid and cook on low heat for 2 hours, stirring occasionally and adding a bit more water if necessary: in this case, we added an additional 1 cup of water in a couple of times. During the last 20 minutes, you can adjust the salt and pepper. If at the end of cooking the stew is too brothy, let it reduce for a few more minutes without the lid; if, on the contrary, it is too dry, you can add another ladle of water.
After 2 hours, remove the herb bundle and check the beets' doneness with a fork: the tines should easily penetrate, but the texture should remain firm and meaty. At this point, turn off the heat and add fresh thyme , then add the butter , cover with the lid and let it melt gently. Finally, mix well and serve your fragrant beetroot and lentil stew with polenta or mashed potatoes !
The beetroot and lentil stew can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days or can be frozen.
You can add cubes of potatoes or squash to the preparation, transforming the stew into a rich one-pot meal!
If garlic doesn't intimidate you, you can squeeze a raw clove at the end of cooking.
Don't miss the recipe for chicken stew with chestnuts and mushrooms, great for a fall dinner!

