name:
Cappellacci with Cotechino and Lentil Cream
ingredients:
Eggs: 5.75oz(165 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Sage: 2leaves
Rosemary: 1sprig
Black pepper: to taste
Precooked cotechino: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Potatoes: 5.25oz(150 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ½cup(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)
Dried lentils: ¾cup(150 g)
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Yellow onions: 1- small
Carrots: ½
Celery: ½rib
Garlic: 1clove
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the cappellacci with cotechino and lentil cream, the first thing to do is boil the potatoes that will be used for the filling . It will take about 30-50 minutes depending on their size. Then make the egg pasta: sift the flour into a bowl , add the previously beaten eggs
and start mixing with a fork to combine the ingredients. Then transfer the mixture to a work surface and knead it with your hands until you get a homogeneous mixture .
Wrap the egg pasta in plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature. In the meantime, take care of cooking the lentils: rinse them and transfer them to a saucepan. Cover them with water , add the bay leaf , and let them cook for about 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, cook the cotechino following the instructions on the package; in our case, it needed to be immersed in cold water and cooked for about 30 minutes . At this point, the potatoes will also be cooked. To check the cooking, prick them with the tines of a fork ; if they penetrate easily, they are done. Drain them and set them aside. When the cotechino is cooked, remove it from the water and unwrap it , being careful not to burn yourself with the liquid inside the packaging.
Transfer the cotechino to a cutting board and peel it , then transfer it to a bowl and mash it with a fork . Mash the potatoes into the same bowl ,
add the ricotta , the Parmigiano , and the pepper. Mix everything until the ingredients are uniform and place it in the refrigerator.
Move on to the lentils. Clean the carrot, onion, and celery , finely chop them with a knife or use a mixer . Once the lentils are cooked, remove the bay leaf .
Drain them, reserving the cooking water. In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, add a clove of garlic, and the mixed mince . Let it flavor over medium heat and add the lentils . Sauté everything for a few minutes, then remove the clove of garlic .
Transfer them to the glass of a mixer and add a little cooking water , blend them with an immersion blender until you get a smooth cream .
To get an even smoother cream, strain it ; then transfer it to a small saucepan so you can heat it while you sauté the pasta. Now that everything is ready, all that remains is to deal with the pasta. Take a piece of dough, cover the rest again with plastic wrap , and lightly dust it with semolina flour.
Using a pasta machine, or on a work surface with a rolling pin, roll out a very thin sheet . In the case of the pasta machine, remember to start with the largest setting and move to the smallest. Only if necessary, you can add a bit of semolina flour. Remove any coarse edges and then cut into squares of 3-4 inches .
Place about half a teaspoon of filling in the middle of each square and then wet only two sides with a little water. Feel free to use a spray bottle or a brush. At this point, proceed with closing and forming the cappellacci. Join two opposite corners to form a triangle .
Then pinch all the edges with your fingers until completely closed and letting out the air. Press the ends of the triangle directly on the work surface, with the tips of your thumbs push the belly upwards and finally join the two ends pulling them down, in the opposite direction of the tip .
Pinch with your fingers to seal and if necessary, you can remove a piece of dough that would otherwise be too thick . As you form the cappellacci (with these amounts, you will get about 60), arrange them on a tray lightly dusted with semolina flour. Once they are all finished all that remains is to put a pot full of water on the fire, salted to taste; this will be used for cooking.
Meanwhile, in a pan, pour a bit of oil and season with a sprig of rosemary and a couple of sage leaves. As soon as the water starts to boil, pour the cappellacci into the pot and cook them for 2 to 4 minutes, depending on how long you left them out to dry. When the cappellacci are cooked, drain them directly into the oil, rosemary, and sage seasoning; sauté them briefly.
Then, in a dish, pour some lentil cream and place the cappellacci in the middle . Garnish with some sage, rosemary needles, and a grind of pepper . Here are your cappellacci with cotechino and lentil cream ready!
Once the cappellacci with cotechino and lentil cream are prepared, it is preferable to cook them immediately. Alternatively, you can let them dry in the air for a few hours or freeze them. Just place them in the freezer on a tray with parchment paper and, once frozen, put them in a freezer bag ready to be plunged into boiling water without thawing. It is not recommended to store them once cooked. It is not recommended to freeze them once cooked.
To speed up the process of making your cappellacci with cotechino and lentil cream, you can use precooked lentils: you will need to use about double the amount. They should be drained and directly sautéed in a pan. Make sure that the fresh pasta is not too soft when working with it, otherwise, add more flour. If you use very dry ricotta, the addition of Parmesan may not be necessary, but if you prefer to add it anyway, you should add about 1 tablespoon of milk to soften everything.

