name:
Chocolate cakes in jar
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Butter: 2oz(60 g)
Sugar: 75
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (about 1 medium)
Potato starch: 1.7tbsp(25 g)
Baking powder: ½tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Fresh liquid cream: to taste
Raspberries: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate cakes in jars, start by taking all the fridge ingredients out so they can acclimate. Then sift potato starch, baking powder , and salt into a sieve. Mix and set aside .
Chop the chocolate and let it melt in a double boiler, stirring occasionally so it doesn't burn . Once it's melted, turn off the heat and add the butter in pieces and mix
until completely dissolved. Set the double boiler aside and proceed with the rest of the batter . In a larger bowl, pour in the eggs and then the sugar . Beat for a couple of minutes with a whisk, just enough to lighten the mixture
and then add the melted chocolate . Mix well and finally add the dry mix , making sure no lumps form .
Fill about 10 jars with an 80 ml capacity, do not butter them to allow for layering . Close the jars with the gasket and then with the clips to ensure they are sealed .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for about 25 minutes. At the end of cooking, let the jars cool completely outside the oven before opening them; to open them, unclip the seals while keeping one hand on the lid, then pull the tab with the other hand and remove the lid. Decorate your chocolate cakes in jars . We chose to whip some unsweetened cream. Then, simply spoon it to form a small quenelle and finally garnish with 1 raspberry per jar (perhaps halved if you prefer). Your chocolate cakes in jars are ready: enjoy your sweet indulgence !
It is recommended to consume the chocolate cakes in jars as soon as they are ready; they can be stored for 2-3 days unopened. Once the batter is ready, it should be cooked immediately. It is not recommended to freeze the raw batter.
Flavor the batter to your liking with grated orange zest or vanilla essence. Instead of whipped cream, serve with a scoop of ice cream. And finally, try adding a burst of flavor to your chocolate cakes in jars by adding some sea salt flakes to the batter.

