name:
Lentil Rosti with Monkfish
ingredients:
Dried lentils: 0.9cup(170 g)
Potatoes: 7.1oz(200 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)- to grate
Breadcrumbs: ¼cup(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Monkfish: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Marsala wine: 0.7cup(160 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Orange juice: 1.5oz(40 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Shallot: 0.4oz(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Sage: 12leaves
Orange peel: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: High
Note + 10 min. for marinating the fish

instructions:
To make the lentil rosti with monkfish, first prepare the rosti mixture: pour the lentils into a pot and cover with water, turn on the heat and cook for about 20 minutes , ensuring the lentils do not break apart but remain somewhat crunchy. Place the potato in another pot of water and boil until soft . Once cooked, drain the lentils and set them aside .
Mash the boiled potato in a bowl , add the lentils and mix , then add the grated Parmesan cheese ,
the egg , breadcrumbs , salt, and pepper. Mix until you obtain a consistent and homogeneous mixture and set aside.
Take the monkfish and divide it lengthwise, cutting along the central spine to obtain 2 fillets . From each fillet, cut medallions about 1 inch thick (the diameter varies depending on the size of the fillet)
and tie each medallion with a piece of twine to hold its shape during cooking : you'll need a total of 12 small medallions. Transfer the monkfish medallions to a baking dish, pour in the Marsala , and season with salt and pepper , then marinate for about 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, peel and finely chop the shallot . After 10 minutes, drain the fish marinade by straining it through a sieve , then sauté the shallot in a pan with a little oil ,
add the marinade liquid and reduce it over low heat for about 5 minutes . Transfer the resulting cooking base to a tall, narrow container, add the oil ,
orange juice , and fresh cream and blend with an immersion blender. Adjust the sauce with salt and keep it warm until ready to use.
Now you can proceed to cook the rostis: take a generous spoonful of mixture and shape it with your hands into a patty-like form , then place it in a hot pan without adding oil and cook until golden brown on both sides ; it will take about 10 minutes to cook all 6 rostis. Once cooked, set the rostis aside and keep them warm, perhaps in the oven.
For cooking the fish, heat a little olive oil in a pan, place the medallions inside and brown over medium heat for a couple of minutes on each side , then transfer them to a paper towel to remove excess oil .
Lastly, prepare the sage leaves for garnishing: heat a small amount of olive oil in a pan, add the leaves and fry for a couple of minutes until crispy , then transfer to a paper towel to remove excess oil .
You are now ready to assemble your appetizer: place a rosti on each plate, top with 2 monkfish medallions, after removing the twine, and drizzle with a spoonful of sauce . Finally, garnish with 2 crispy sage leaves, some grated orange zest , and a sprinkle of pepper: your lentil rosti with monkfish is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the lentil rosti with monkfish immediately after preparation. Cooked lentil rostis can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days; alternatively, you can freeze them before cooking, after shaping them.
Lentil rosti is also a delicious way to use leftover lentils: in this case, you'll need 11.5 oz of cooked lentils. If you prefer, you can make them with red lentils, but in this case, the mixture will have a more homogeneous and uniform consistency. Also try the variation with roasted octopus instead of monkfish... it will be great served with a balsamic vinegar glaze!

