name:
Grandfather's Cake
ingredients:
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2tbsp(30 g)
Type 00 flour: 2.4cups(300 g)
Butter: 6oz(170 g)- cold from the fridge
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Egg yolks: 2tbsp(30 g)- (approximately 2)
Eggs: 1.9oz(55 g)- (about 1)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Egg yolks: 3tbsp(45 g)- (about 3)
Sugar: ⅓cup(70 g)
Cornstarch: 4tsp(10 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Egg whites: to taste
Almond slices: ¼cup(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note plus cooling times

instructions:
To prepare the grandfather's cake, first make the cocoa crust. In a bowl, pour the flour, add the cold butter cut into cubes , and start working it with your fingers . Once you have a sandy mixture, add the cocoa and mix it with the rest of the ingredients.
Then add the sugar and mix again. Finally, add the two yolks (set aside the egg whites) and the whole egg (follow the indicated weights) and continue working everything with your fingertips until you get a uniform mixture .
At this point, transfer it to a work surface and knead it quickly until compact . Then wrap it in cling film and place it in the refrigerator to firm up for at least 30 minutes.
In the meantime, chop the dark chocolate that will be used to prepare the custard. Heat the milk in a saucepan and place the yolks in another bowl (use the indicated weights), along with the sugar and cornstarch .
Quickly mix everything with a spatula or whisk , and as soon as the milk is almost boiling, slowly pour it into the yolk mixture, stirring to temper it . Then transfer everything back to the saucepan .
Continue stirring and cook the cream until it thickens , then turn off the heat and add the chocolate . Mix until it dissolves completely ,
then transfer it to a bowl and cover with cling film touching the surface . Set aside the cream, and once the 30 minutes have passed, take out the pastry. Remove the film and divide the dough in half . Roll out the first half using a little flour; work with the rolling pin until it's about 1/8 inch thick.
Now grease a 9.5-inch diameter pan , then transfer the rolled pastry into the mold . Gently press with your fingers to adhere the dough to the mold , ensuring there is a high enough border to contain the cream. If necessary, trim any excess pastry.
Prick the base with a fork and pour the cream inside, leveling it with the back of a spoon . Then roll out the second part of the pastry to a thickness of 1/8 inch .
Place the pastry over the cream and gently press the edge to adhere it to the one below. Use a small knife to trim any excess pastry (29-30).
At this point, lightly beat the egg white and use it to brush the entire cake surface (31-32), which you should then cover with sliced almonds . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 40 minutes.
After this time, take the grandfather's cake out of the oven and let it cool completely ; then, using a small knife, ensure the edges are well detached . Once the cake has cooled, remove it from the pan and serve your grandfather's cake !
Store the cake in the refrigerator for 2-3 days at most, in an airtight container. Alternatively, you can freeze it.
You can store the frozen pastry dough wrapped in cling film for about 1 month.
Flavor your pastry with 1 tbsp of coffee powder and marbled the cake surface by adding nuts to taste. For a more particular and refined touch, try substituting the sliced almonds with unsalted peanuts and experience the deliciousness!

