name:
Apple and cream tart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(350 g)
Eggs: 2.1oz(60 g)- (1 medium)
Egg yolks: 1
Butter: 0.9cup(200 g)- soft
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Vanilla bean: 1
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Cornstarch: 5tsp(20 g)
Golden delicious apples: 2
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Almond slices: 0.3cup(30 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + cooling times

instructions:
To prepare the apple and cream tart, first make the latter. Take the vanilla pod that will be used to prepare the shortcrust, empty it of seeds and set them aside. In a saucepan, pour the milk and the emptied vanilla pod . Turn the flame to low and bring the milk to a boil. Meanwhile, in another saucepan, combine the egg yolks with the sugar and stir gently with a spatula. Then add the corn starch .
Stir again until you get a homogeneous mixture and add a pinch of salt . Stir again, then pour in the hot milk slowly , stirring .
Return the cream to the heat and stir until it thickens . Then transfer to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap in contact , and let it cool. Move on to the shortcrust. In a bowl, pour the soft butter and powdered sugar .
Work with electric whisks until you get a cream , add the whole egg , the vanilla pod seeds , and work until fully absorbed.
Add the egg yolk and work again with the whisks. Add the salt , the flour , and work again until you have obtained a soft and homogeneous mixture .
Transfer the dough into a piping bag with a smooth nozzle and create the base of the shortcrust shell inside a 9-inch mold . Once the base of the mold is covered with the shortcrust, create the edge by overlapping 3 layers of shortcrust . Level the edge gently with a spoon to make it more uniform . Transfer the shortcrust shell to the fridge until use.
Move on to the apples: wash them well, cut them in half , and remove the central core . Cut them into cubes of about 0.4 inches, without peeling them .
Transfer them to a pot, add the granulated sugar , and the zest of one lemon . Cook over high heat for about 5 minutes. When the apples are soft, but still whole, turn off the heat and let them cool at room temperature .
Take the shortcrust base and place about 1 oz of sliced almonds on top (they will partially isolate the shortcrust from the moisture created by the cooked apples). Pour the now lukewarm cooked apples and level them with a spoon . Finally, pour the now cold custard .
Level with a spoon to smooth the surface. Add another 1 oz of sliced almonds on the edges and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 45 minutes. When it is well browned, take it out of the oven .
Let it cool completely before unmolding the dessert . Decorate with powdered sugar on the edges and serve your tart .
The apple and cream tart can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 2 days.
Instead of sliced almonds, you can use chopped hazelnuts.
If you prefer, you can flavor the apples with ground cinnamon and ginger.

