name:
Parsnip and Hazelnut Soup
ingredients:
Whole peeled hazelnuts: 1.4cups(200 g)
Parsnip: 0.8lb(370 g)
Potatoes: 5.3oz(150 g)
Dried mushrooms: 0.4oz(10 g)- porcini
Leeks: ½cup(50 g)
Vegetable broth: to taste
Sage: to taste
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cereal grain buns: 7oz(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the parsnip and hazelnut soup, first make the vegetable broth following our recipe and keep it warm. Toast the hazelnuts in a pan for a few minutes to release all their aroma , but remember to check them often to prevent burning. Clean the leek by removing both the root and the green part, then remove the outer leaves and slice it thinly .
Peel the parsnip with a vegetable peeler and cut it into not too small cubes . Do the same with the potatoes .
Finally, rinse the dried mushrooms thoroughly under running water to remove any residual dirt . Now you're ready to cook: melt the butter in a saucepan, add the leeks and let them soften for a few minutes over low heat, then add the mushrooms and let them flavor for another minute, stirring often.
At this point, also add the potatoes , the parsnip , and the hazelnuts, keeping a few aside for the final garnish .
Add the pre-washed sage leaves and cover just with the vegetable broth , then cover with the lid and cook over low heat for about 30 minutes, adding more broth as needed and stirring occasionally.
In the meantime, you can prepare the croutons: cut the multi-grain bread first into slices and then into cubes , distribute them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and season them with oil and salt. Brown the croutons in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 8 minutes .
Coarsely chop the hazelnuts you set aside for garnish . After the soup cooking time, remove the sage leaves and blend with an immersion blender ; if necessary, you can add a little broth to reach the desired consistency. At this point, season the soup with salt and pepper and distribute it in serving dishes.
Finally, garnish each dish with a teaspoon of fresh cream , a bit of chopped hazelnuts , and a handful of croutons: your parsnip and hazelnut soup is ready to be enjoyed !
The parsnip and hazelnut soup without the cream can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to 2 days. It can be frozen if you used fresh ingredients.
If you don't know how to find parsnip, don't change the recipe! It can easily be replaced with Jerusalem artichoke or celeriac, which it also resembles in taste. Alternatively, you can increase the amount of potatoes, but in this case, you will get a slightly different texture.
Dried mushrooms give the soup a pleasant shade of color and flavor, but you can omit them if you prefer.
You can use oil instead of butter for the sauté, or walnuts instead of hazelnuts: in this case, if the soup turns out a bit grainy, you can strain it.
Finally, try adding a knob of gorgonzola instead of cream for the garnish... you'll taste how delicious it is!

