name:
Escarole and Potato Soup
ingredients:
Escarole (endive): 1lb(450 g)
Potatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Leeks: 2.8cups(250 g)
Vegetable broth: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves
Peperoncino: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Bread loaves: 0.55lb(250 g)- of durum wheat, sliced
Caciocavallo silano cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Rosemary: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the escarole and potato soup, first make the Vegetable broth , then move on to cleaning the vegetables. Divide the escarole in half, remove the stem , and cut it into strips about 1-1.5 inches long. Wash it under running water and set aside. Move on to the leek, remove the green part, and make a vertical cut to easily remove the first layer.
Then cut it into rings and move on to the potatoes. Peel them and cut them into cubes about 1-1.5 inches .
Finally, also chop the chili pepper . Now pour a drizzle of oil into a saucepan, add the garlic cloves and the chili pepper ; heat and also add the leek. Stew it for about 4-5 minutes, stirring occasionally, then remove the garlic
and add the potatoes . Let them flavor for a moment, then also add the escarole . Add plenty of broth to cover everything.
Salt and let cook for about 30 minutes over medium heat, stirring occasionally . When the escarole and potato soup is almost ready, take care of making the croutons. Cut 8 slices from the durum wheat loaf and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Drizzle with a little oil and place rosemary needles on each . Bake in a preheated static oven at 428°F for about 5 minutes.
Meanwhile, grate the caciocavallo cheese and as soon as the croutons are slightly golden use it to cover them . Put back in the oven for another 2-3 minutes,
until the cheese has melted . At this point, the soup will also be ready and you can serve it accompanied by the cheese croutons .
The escarole and potato soup can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended.
For an extra touch, add a mix of dried fruit, toasted in the oven or in a pan for a few moments. If you want a bold note, add a piece of pork rind along with the potatoes!

