name:
Teff crackers
ingredients:
Teff flour: ½cup(60 g)
Fioretto corn flour: ¼cup(35 g)
Water: ¾cup(170 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(45 g)
Sunflower seeds: ¼cup(30 g)
Pumpkin seeds: 3 ½tbsp(30 g)
Sesame seeds: 2tbsp(30 g)
Flax seed: 3tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: 0.9tsp(5 g)
Coarse salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 55 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the teff crackers, first pour the water into a saucepan and heat it. In the meantime, take a large bowl and pour in all the dry ingredients: the teff flour, cornmeal , pumpkin seeds , flax seeds ,
sunflower seeds , sesame seeds , and fine salt .
When the water is hot, add it to the mixture and also add the oil . At this point, mix with a spatula or spoon to combine all the ingredients until you get a soft dough.
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and spread the dough with your hands to form a rectangle about 1-2 mm thick . Bake in a static oven preheated to 300°F for 25 minutes, placing the tray on the lower rack of the oven. After this time, remove the tray from the oven and cut the rectangle with a sharp knife, first in half horizontally , then vertically to get 10 smaller rectangles.
Sprinkle the crackers with coarse salt and bake again for 30 minutes, this time on the middle rack of the oven. After this time, remove the tray from the oven again and let it cool . Your teff crackers are ready to be munched on !
The teff crackers can be stored at room temperature in a food bag for about 5 days. It is not recommended to freeze the dough.
You can use other types of seeds to customize the dough and make it more to your liking. Try adding an aromatic note with a few pink peppercorns!
Teff is not a grain but a seed belonging to the grass family, from which a completely wholemeal flour is obtained. It is a very common food in African cuisine, particularly Ethiopian and Eritrean, and is the ingredient traditionally used to make Injera bread . The name "teff" means "lost" and refers to how easily these tiny seeds can be dispersed. Thanks to its high nutritional profile and adaptability to diverse climatic conditions, soils, and altitudes, teff is considered a valuable food that can promote rural development and support local territories, as well as a valid alternative for those following a gluten-free diet. Still little known in Western countries, teff flour can be purchased at well-stocked organic stores or online!

