name:
Millerighe Cake
ingredients:
Butter: 1 ¼cup(265 g)- soft
Powdered sugar: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 14.1oz(400 g)- (about 7 medium)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Cornstarch: ¾cup(100 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(20 g)
Apricot jam: to taste
Water: ½cup(125 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 4 ½tbsp(65 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 0.6cup(50 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 2tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note plus cooling times

instructions:
To make the millerighe cake, first, separate the eggs into two different bowls. Then place the softened butter in another bowl, add the sugar , and use an electric mixer to beat the ingredients until you obtain a creamy consistency. Continue beating and add the egg yolks one at a time , working everything until you get a smooth mixture. At this point, add the cornstarch
and the flour ; using the electric beaters, continue working the mixture until it is homogeneous . Pour the egg whites into a bowl and whip them with electric beaters
until you get a light and firm mixture . Gently fold the whipped egg whites into the batter, mixing from the bottom up . Weigh your batter and divide it into two equal parts
and add the sifted bitter cocoa to one of the two batters . The two batters are ready , and you can start baking. Place a 20x20 square ring mold without a bottom on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, and brush the sides with butter .
Pour half of the white batter onto the bottom of the mold, leveling it out to spread it evenly across the surface , and bake for 3-4 minutes in a preheated oven with grill mode at 464°F. When the surface is golden and a thin crust has formed, remove from the oven , then pour half of the cocoa batter on top
level it with a spatula and bake again using the same mode and time. Proceed with the second layer of white batter , baking for another 3-4 minutes at 464°F, and finish with the second layer of dark batter . This time, switch the oven to static mode and lower the temperature to 356°F for 15 minutes.
Once baking is complete, remove the cake from the oven , let it cool slightly, and run a small knife along the inner edge to help release the mold . Flip the cake onto a cutting board and let it cool completely.
Trim the edges with a knife and divide the cake into six equal parts, creating strips . Use a ruler for precise measurements. Once the strips are cut, assemble them as follows: place a sheet of plastic wrap on the work surface, place the first strip with the striped side facing up, then brush with apricot jam on the top and the right side to adhere the other strips
Add another strip next to it, this time with the darker side facing up , brush again with jam and adhere another strip with the striped side facing up to alternate the pattern . Now repeat the operation to create a second layer of strips. This time start with a dark strip , well-brushed, a striped strip in the center
and finish with a white strip . The composition is complete; wrap the cake in plastic wrap and let it set in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. The cake must be very cold before glazing. Now prepare the glaze: soften the gelatin sheets in cold water ;
place the cream and water in a saucepan , separately mix the sugar with the cocoa and pour it all into the saucepan , bring to a boil and let it thicken over medium heat until
the glaze reaches the right consistency. . At this point, remove from heat and add the well-drained gelatin . Mix well, then pour the glaze into a bowl, cover with plastic wrap , let cool, and refrigerate.
When both the base and glaze are cold, you can cover the cake: place the cake on a wire rack, pour the glaze over it using a ladle to completely cover the cake . Return the cake to the fridge for at least 20 minutes before serving. Place the cake on a serving platter and serve in slices.
We recommend storing the cake in the fridge and consuming it within 3-4 days. It is possible to freeze the unglazed base.
Flavor your sponge cake with about 20 grams of coffee and serve your dessert with whipped sweetened cream. If the glaze is too thick, you can heat it for a few seconds in the microwave.

