name:
Licorice and Shrimp Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Shrimps: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Licorice powder: 1tsp(4 g)
Shallot: 1.5oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
White wine: 2.5oz(70 g)
Pecorino cheese: 0.5oz(15 g)
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)
Oregano: to taste
Water: 5cups(1.2 l)
Coarse salt: 1.67tsp(10 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the licorice and shrimp risotto, first start by cleaning the shrimp. First, remove the head , then also remove the legs and shell , keeping everything aside. At this point, cut along the back of each shrimp and remove the black vein. For more tips, check out our cooking school: How to clean shrimp .
Then pour the water into a pot , add the heads and shells and salt, then bring to a boil and wait about 5 minutes.
Meanwhile, finely chop the shallot and cut the shrimp into pieces . Then strain the broth and keep it warm .
Pour a drizzle of oil into another pot, add the shallot and let it soften over low heat. Add the rice and toast it for 2-3 minutes, slightly raising the heat. Deglaze with white wine
and let it completely evaporate, continuing to stir . Continue cooking the risotto by adding some shrimp broth . At this stage, it's best to stir the risotto as little as possible and add the broth a couple of ladles at a time, only as needed and always hot. After about 13 minutes, or until it's al dente, add the licorice powder .
and stir . Also add the shrimp pieces and stir again .
Wait about 3 minutes, then turn off the heat; then add: butter, pecorino and mix them with the rest to cream the risotto . Cover with a lid and wait a couple more minutes.
Finish with freshly chopped oregano and add a few more drops of broth to achieve the consistency you prefer. Plate, grate a bit of black pepper on each dish and serve your licorice and shrimp risotto while still hot !
It is recommended to consume the risotto immediately. Freezing is not recommended.
If you don't have licorice powder available, you can use licorice candies, making sure to use pure unsweetened licorice candies. You can crush them, then use them as indicated in the recipe, or dissolve the candies in the fish broth.

