name:
Teff Cookies
ingredients:
Teff flour: 1cup(150 g)
Nut flour: 1.8cups(170 g)
Rice flour: 0.6cup(100 g)
Brown sugar: ⅓cup(75 g)
Butter: 2.5oz(70 g)- cold
Whole milk: ¼cup(65 g)
Eggs: 3.5oz(100 g)- (about 2 medium)
Baking powder: 1.4tsp(6 g)- gluten-free
Sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 35 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the dough resting time (30 min in the refrigerator and 20 min in the freezer)

instructions:
To prepare the teff cookies, first pour the milk into a saucepan and heat it without bringing it to a boil. Meanwhile, in a bowl combine the teff flour, hazelnut flour , brown sugar , and baking powder .
Add the butter in pieces, cold from the fridge , and crumble it into the mixture with your fingertips . At this point, pour in the warm milk and mix briefly to blend the mixture.
Add the beaten eggs and knead with your hands to incorporate them with the rest of the ingredients. Before the mixture becomes completely homogeneous, also add the rice flour and finish kneading until you get a dough ball with a uniform consistency . Wrap the dough ball in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes.
After the resting time, take the dough and shape it into a log about 12 inches long . Wrap the log in a sheet of parchment paper , flattening the edges on the work surface as you roll it to give it a squared shape . Place the package in the freezer to firm up for about 20 minutes.
After the chilling time, remove the parchment paper and sprinkle a tray with granulated sugar , then roll the log in the sugar until its sides are evenly coated .
At this point, cut it into slices about 1/2 inch thick and place the squares obtained on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . With these quantities, you will get about 35 cookies. Bake the cookies in a preheated static oven at 340°F for about 30-35 minutes, placing them on the middle rack. When they are evenly golden brown , take them out and let them cool slightly: your teff cookies will be ready to be enjoyed!
Teff cookies can be stored in a well-sealed food bag for about 5 days. You can freeze both the dough, perhaps after shaping it into a log, and the already baked cookies.
You can flavor the teff cookies with orange or lemon zest, vanilla, cinnamon, or nutmeg. Otherwise, brush the squares with egg yolk and sprinkle them with chopped hazelnuts to add a crunchy touch!

