name:
Saffron and Milanese Rice D'O
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)- aged 18 months
Water: 5cups(1.2 l)
Butter: 2.1oz(60 g)- (sweet quality)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- aged 24-27 months
White wine vinegar: 2tsp(10 g)
Lemon peel: ½- (untreated)
Fine salt: to taste
Saffron threads: (0.5 g)
Water: 0.625cup(150 g)
Cornstarch: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: ¼tsp(1 g)
Sugar: ¼tsp(1 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare Saffron and Milanese Rice D'O, start with the saffron sauce. In a small saucepan, pour the water and bring it to a boil . Meanwhile, in a small bowl, dilute the cornstarch in 15 g of cold water and as soon as the water starts boiling, add it very slowly to the saucepan, always stirring with a whisk .
Let it simmer for a few seconds , then remove it from the heat and let it cool for a few seconds. The sauce should be silky and smooth. At this point, add the saffron threads , a pinch of sugar , and salt.
To enhance the release of the essences contained in the saffron and not disturb the shape of the threads, do not stir with the whisk but gently move the saucepan . Doing this away from the heat, at a temperature around 158°F, the saffron will fully release its aroma. So as soon as you reach a temperature of about 122°F, transfer the sauce into a squeeze bottle (8-9); in this way, the saffron will continue to release colors and aromas.
Set the saffron sauce aside and proceed to cook the rice. First, put some water in a saucepan and bring it to a boil; it will be needed for cooking the rice. Initially, you'll need to toast it dry, by pouring it into an already hot pot . In this phase, it is essential to stir the rice and often touch it with your fingers to determine when it is sufficiently hot . Perfectly toasting the rice allows the main ingredient of this dish to express itself in the best way.
Only when it is perfectly toasted, proceed to cook the risotto: wet it with 2-3 ladles of unsalted boiling water , stir, and lower the flame. Continue cooking the rice very gently, for about 16 minutes, adding more water as needed and stirring just occasionally , gently, to keep the grain intact. Always taste the rice to determine when it reaches the perfect point of cooking and as soon as it is ready, cooked but still al dente , remove the pot from the heat and wait about 30 seconds; it is important that the saucepan is not hot during the creaming phase.
At this point, add the vinegar , which will help to further highlight the cereal aroma and contrast the starchy part of the rice, the butter , and the grated lemon zest , being careful not to take the white part.
Add the Grana cheese and stir . Once the rice is well creamed, add a splash of water to achieve the right creaminess and add salt only at the end . Stir once more to help it dissolve. Given the use of Grana cheese, it is best to add salt only at the end and always taste to avoid over-salting.
Now pour a ladle of rice onto the plate, tap the bottom of the plate with the palm of your hand so that the risotto spreads over the entire surface . Take the squeeze bottle with the saffron infusion, shake it , and draw a spiral on the surface of the risotto . Your Saffron and Milanese Rice D'O is ready to be enjoyed.
It is recommended to consume the risotto immediately. The sauce can be stored for a few hours at room temperature. Store saffron threads in the refrigerator: this way, their scent will remain intact.
If the risotto is cooked slowly and allowed to rest before creaming, thanks to the released starch, it will be very creamy, and it will be enough to use less butter.
Use more or less aged cheese for the creaming, depending on your taste.
Also, try the recipe for Milanese risotto with purple shrimp, another refined variant.

