name:
Mostaccioli napoletani
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4.3cups(500 g)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Water: 1cup(250 g)
Chopped almonds: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: ¼cup(30 g)
Orange peel: 1
Ratatouille: 0.3tbsp(5 g)
Baker's ammonia: ½tsp(3 g)
Dark chocolate: 1.1lbs(500 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time of the dough and cooling of the cookies

instructions:
To prepare Neapolitan mostaccioli, start by pouring the flour, almond granules , and sugar into a bowl. Then sift the unsweetened cocoa powder ,
the pisto , and the ammonium bicarbonate . Finally, grate the orange zest
and mix everything well . Gradually pour in the room temperature water, paying attention to the necessary amount: the dough might require slightly more or less. As you pour in the water, knead with your other hand . Once you have a homogeneous mixture, transfer it to the pastry board .
Knead it by hand until all the ingredients are well combined . Wrap the dough in parchment paper and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least an hour . After the time has passed, roll out the dough with a rolling pin between two sheets of parchment paper
and obtain a surface about 1/4 inch thick . From this, cut about 20 diamonds with sides measuring approximately 2 and 3/4 inches . As you get the shapes, transfer them to a baking sheet with parchment paper, spacing them out .
Place 8 diamonds at a time on the baking sheet and proceed with the various batches: bake in a hot oven at 356°F for about 18 minutes . Once baked, let them cool completely on a wire rack before glazing. Coarsely chop the dark chocolate and let it melt in a double boiler, stirring to prevent burning .
If you prefer, you can dip the mostaccioli directly in the melted chocolate and then let them set on parchment paper. Alternatively, for a more visually appealing result, you can cover one part first by holding the cookies by the tip and drizzling them with chocolate with a spoon . Place on a wire rack with a sheet of parchment paper underneath , and let dry in a cool place until the chocolate is completely set .
Then turn the mostaccioli onto a sheet of parchment paper and place them on the wire rack. Re-melt the chocolate and cover the other side as well . Let the chocolate set again in a cool place . Your Neapolitan mostaccioli are now ready, just enjoy them !

Neapolitan mostaccioli can be stored for about ten days, keeping them covered and in a cool place. It's better not to store the dough in the refrigerator for too long as it would absorb too much moisture, compromising the texture. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer Neapolitan mostaccioli a bit crunchier, extend the baking time to 20-22 minutes, whereas if you prefer them softer, shorten to 13-15 minutes. Some versions include adding a layer of apricot jam, while others even fill them with the same jam. For a less rustic texture, you can add almond flour or make a mix of flour and almond granules. Some people also add candied citron and orange to the dough; if you like them, why not try this tempting variant!
Pisto is an aromatic spice mix, these must be well balanced to give the famous traditional sweets their distinctive aroma and flavor. If you cannot find it in stores or online, you can try making it yourself. Simply grind in a mortar: - 15 g of white pepper, - 5 g of grated nutmeg, - 13 g of cinnamon powder, - 2 g of cloves, - 5 g of star anise seeds. Once you have a very fine powder, toast it in a pan for a few moments, being careful not to burn it. Finally, store in a jar and use according to the quantities described in the recipe. The mixture keeps for several months.
Mustaccioli are common in many regions of Italy and often carry different names, including mostaccioli , mustacciuoli , mustazzoli . The name likely derives from the Latin word mustum , meaning must. Indeed, in ancient times these two ingredients were used to flavor the cookies. Over time, the custom of using them was lost, and the ingredients were replaced by water and pisto (a spice mix). Each region presents its version, but it is quite common to mix flour, honey, candied fruit, and water. Finally, these cookies are coated with a dark chocolate glaze. In Campania, the windows of pastry shops are crowded with various traditional sweets among roccocò, struffoli, susamielli, divinamore, and, not least, Neapolitan mostaccioli. These delicacies are prepared throughout the Christmas holiday season. Variants of these mostaccioli exist, such as those lightly brushed on the surface with apricot jam, as done for raffiuoli. Other times, the jam is used to fill the mostaccioli. Finally, other versions feature a white chocolate glaze.

