name:
Butter-free cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(210 g)
Peanut seed oil: 4.3tbsp(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(170 g)
Eggs: 1
Coffee: 2tbsp(30 g)- strong
Fine salt: 1pinch
Baking soda: 2tsp(3 g)
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 18 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the butter-free cookies, first make the coffee using a moka pot and let it cool; it should be quite strong. Then coarsely chop the dark chocolate and set it aside. At this point, pour the sugar into a bowl along with the flour and baking soda .
Add the salt , the egg , and the extra virgin olive oil .
Finally, add the vegetable oil and the now lukewarm coffee . Mix everything with your hands or a wooden spoon; you will get a soft dough.
At this point, add the chocolate pieces and incorporate them into the dough using a spoon. Then, still with the spoon, take 70 g (about 2 1/2 oz) of dough and shape it into a ball , placing it on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. With these amounts, you will get about 10 butter-free cookies.
Continue in this way, spacing the dough portions apart ; we recommend making 2 batches, baking 5 cookies at a time (you can leave the remaining raw cookies at room temperature, waiting for the second batch). Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 18 minutes. Then remove the cookies from the oven and let them cool completely before transferring them to a tray, as they will still be soft. Once cooled, your butter-free cookies are ready to be served !
Butter-free cookies can be stored in a tin box for about 3-4 days. You can freeze them after they have completely cooled.
You can replace the coffee with the same amount of orange juice or milk, perhaps flavored with a bit of cocoa!
If you prefer a spicy note, you can add some nutmeg or ginger powder to the dough.
Instead of granulated sugar, you can use the same amount of brown sugar.
Instead of chocolate, you can use nuts or cereals.
Looking for more homemade cookie recipes? Try our milk cookies or Eggless Cookies !

