name:
Hazelnut Sorbet
ingredients:
Whole peeled hazelnuts: 1.1cups(150 g)
Water: 0.8cup(200 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Water: 0.625cup(150 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High
Note + at least 30 min. of cooling the mixture in the freezer and at least 1 h with an ice cream maker

instructions:
To make the hazelnut sorbet, first check if the ice cream maker's bowl needs to be refrigerated; if so, it should be placed in the freezer for at least a night. At this point, prepare the syrup: pour 150 g (5.3 oz) of water and 200 g (1 cup) of sugar into a saucepan and bring to a boil so that the sugar dissolves completely , then turn off the heat and let it cool. Spread the hazelnuts on a baking sheet and toast them in a preheated static oven at 338°F for about 7-8 minutes ; alternatively, you can toast them in a pan for 5 minutes. In both cases, be very careful not to burn them.
Once toasted, let them cool slightly; transfer the hazelnuts to a blender and coarsely chop them. Then pour the remaining 200 g (7 oz) of water into the blender and continue to blend until you get a smooth cream .
Transfer the hazelnut cream obtained into a tall, narrow container, add the syrup you let cool , and blend with an immersion blender to mix everything well . At this point, cover the container with cling film and place the mixture in the freezer to cool for about 30 minutes .
After this time, pour the well-chilled mixture into the ice cream maker and turn it on until the desired consistency is reached ; it will take about an hour, but the time may vary depending on the ice cream maker model used. Transfer the sorbet into a dessert glass and garnish with chopped hazelnuts, after which your delicious hazelnut sorbet is ready to be served !
Hazelnut sorbet can be stored in the freezer for about a month.
If you don't have an ice cream maker, you can proceed as follows: pour the mixture into a large bowl and place it in the freezer, then every 2 hours take it out and stir briefly with a whisk. Repeat the operation until the desired consistency is reached.

