name:
Panforte
ingredients:
Almonds: 2 ¼cups(260 g)- unpeeled
Candied citron: 5.6oz(160 g)- cubed
Candied orange: 5.5oz(160 g)- diced
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Honey: ½cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(160 g)
Nutmeg: 0.1tsp(0.4 g)
Ground cloves: 0.1tsp(0.4 g)
Coriander: 0.1tsp(0.4 g)- ground
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp(2 g)
Powdered sugar: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Wafer paper: 1foglio
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the panforte, first pour the sugar and honey into a saucepan ; then stir until it melts .
At this point, transfer to a Pyrex bowl . Add both the candied citron and the candied orange
and the almonds . Mix everything , then also incorporate the flour
continuing to stir with a spoon . Do not worry if the dough is too tough, this is normal. At this point, add a pinch of cinnamon , finely ground cloves , and coriander
and powdered nutmeg . Mix everything again, by hand if it's more convenient for you, to blend the ingredients well ; you will need to work it quite vigorously. Now butter a 8-inch springform pan
and place the wafer sheet on the bottom . Then cut a strip of parchment paper, to the thickness of the mold and the same length as the circumference: use it to line the entire circumference of the mold (17-18).
Pour the mixture into the mold , then dip a spoon in a bowl of water and use the back to level the surface of the cake, continuing to wet as needed: wetting the spoon will help you press the surface of the cake to distribute the dough evenly across the pan (20-21).
Dust the panforte with about 2 teaspoons of powdered sugar (22-23), it should be perfectly covered. Bake in a preheated static oven at 430°F for about 10 minutes. After this time, take the panforte out of the oven and let it cool for just a few minutes; it should not be cold, otherwise, it will be difficult to remove from the mold.
After that, remove the panforte from the mold , remove the parchment paper and dust again with powdered sugar , before serving it .
Store the panforte under a glass dome, at room temperature, for up to 4 days.
Do not let the panforte cool too much, otherwise, you might find it difficult to remove from the mold. You can replace some almonds with hazelnuts and use other types of candied fruits.

