name:
Baked Chicken Thighs with Apples
ingredients:
Chicken drumsticks: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (4 drumsticks)
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.5oz(40 g)
Fine salt: 1.7tsp(10 g)
Sweet Paprika: to taste
Ground black pepper: to taste
Pink peppercorn: to taste
Ground white pepper: to taste
Juniper berries: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Sage: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Fuji Apples: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (about 2)
Brown sugar: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Lemon juice: ½

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To make the baked chicken thighs with apples, start by finely chopping the aromatic herbs: parsley, sage, rosemary, and thyme , and set aside. Place the black, white, and pink peppercorns and juniper berries in a mortar and crush them with the pestle
to reduce them to powder . In a jug, place the herb mix and the ground spices , pour in the olive oil
add the 10g of fine salt, the wine and season with the sweet paprika , then stir with a spoon to flavor .
Take a baking dish and grease the bottom with olive oil, lay your chicken thighs side by side , then cover them with the prepared spice mixture . Bake the thighs in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 45 minutes. Meanwhile, wash and dry the apples, cut them in half
and then into quarters and finally reduce them into smaller, irregular pieces . Pour the apple pieces into a pan , add the brown sugar ,
5g of fine salt and drizzle with the juice of half a lemon . Cook over medium heat to dissolve the sugar, then pour in the water ,
lower the heat and continue cooking for 10 minutes until the apples are tender . Meanwhile, the chicken will also have finished cooking and will be golden on the surface , then remove from the oven and immediately serve your baked chicken thighs with apples !
The baked chicken thighs with apples can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can further flavor the chicken thighs by adding crushed garlic, shallots, onions, and replacing the wine with a light beer. You can season your apples with fresh rosemary to make them even more aromatic!

