name:
Gnocchi with sausage and apples
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Fine salt: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Semolina: to taste
Fuji Apples: 2cups(240 g)
Sausage: 0.9lb(400 g)
Dark beer: 3.4oz(100 g)
Fennel seeds: ¾tsp(4 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Water: 1.4oz(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare the gnocchi with sausage and apples, start by boiling the potatoes: after washing them, put them in a pot and bring the water to a boil, then cook for another 30-40 minutes depending on their size (to shorten the time, you can cook them in a pressure cooker). Peel them while still hot and immediately mash them with a potato masher onto the flour that you have spread in a fountain on the pastry board . Add the egg in the center ,
a pinch of salt and flavor with chopped marjoram . Knead the ingredients until you get a compact but still soft dough .
Take a small portion of dough and roll it out with your fingertips to obtain logs about 3/4 inch thick ; to do this, help yourself by flouring the pastry board from time to time with semolina. In the meantime, cover the remaining dough with a cloth to prevent it from drying out. Place a cloth on a tray and sprinkle it with semolina .
Cut the logs into chunks and drag them over the gnocchi board, making a slight pressure with your thumb to obtain the typical shape . As you make the potato gnocchi, place them on the tray well spaced from each other . Once they are made and finished, let them rest in the refrigerator.
Now prepare the ragout: remove the casing from the sausage and cut it into coarse chunks . Wash and cut the apples first in half and then into quarters,
remove the core , then cut the apples into medium-sized and rather irregular pieces . Set the apples aside. Brown the sausage for a few minutes in a saucepan with a drizzle of oil .
Once the sausage is well browned, add the fennel seeds , apple chunks , and mix everything, browning over medium heat; then add the beer .
Let it evaporate, always making sure to stir from time to time, and once the alcohol has evaporated, salt and pepper to taste. Add 1.5 oz of water , lower the heat and cook covered for about 15 minutes . Meanwhile, bring water to a boil in a large pot and salt it when it boils (this will be for cooking the gnocchi). After 15 minutes, remove the lid and cook for the remaining time over medium heat (about ten minutes). Cook your gnocchi
and as soon as they start to float, drain them directly into the ragout (make sure to set aside a ladle of gnocchi cooking water). Toss them briefly in the saucepan, combining them with the ragout with a little cooking water as needed and serve the gnocchi with sausage and apples piping hot .
Gnocchi with sausage and apples can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days.
It is possible to freeze the gnocchi raw: place them on a tray well distanced from each other and let them firm up in the freezer for about 20 minutes; after this time, store the potato gnocchi in a food bag, this way they won't stick together. You can then cook them frozen, making sure to cook only a few at a time, otherwise, the water temperature will drop and the gnocchi will dissolve.
Serve your gnocchi with a sprinkle of caciocavallo cheese, it will make everything more appetizing. Flavor the gnocchi dough with your favorite herbs and, if you like slightly spicy notes, add a pinch of smoked paprika.

