name:
Savory mini cheese and apple pies
ingredients:
Fuji Apples: 1
Puff pastry: 1lb(460 g)- (2 rectangular rolls)
Provola cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Eggs: 1
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: to taste
Whole milk: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 4 pieces

instructions:
To prepare the savory mini cheese and apple pies, wash the apple and first cut it in half and then into quarters , then remove the core .
Cut two quarters of the apple into sticks and divide the sticks in half . Finally, cut the remaining two quarters of the apple into rather thin slices (you will need 12 slices) .
Cut the provolone into slices and then into cubes , transfer them to a bowl and add the whole egg , the yolk, and the cream .
Salt and pepper and add a pinch of nutmeg . Mix to combine everything well and set aside.
Now roll out the first sheet of puff pastry and cut out 4 disks using a 4-inch diameter pastry cutter . Butter 4 tartlet molds with a diameter of 3 inches and line them with the pastry disks you just cut out , making sure to press well on both the base and the edges. Distribute a tablespoon of the egg and cheese mixture for each tartlet ,
then add about half a tablespoon of the apple cut into sticks and cover with another layer of the cheese and egg mixture . Finish by placing 3 thin slices of apple on top of each tartlet .
At this point, roll out the second sheet of puff pastry and cut out another 4 disks with the same 4-inch diameter pastry cutter, then use a small knife to make 3 cuts in the center, being careful not to cut through to the edges (19-20). Place the cut-out pastry disk on each tartlet to cover the filling and press along the edges with your fingers to seal it .
Beat the yolk with a little milk in a small bowl and brush the mini pies with the resulting mixture , then bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 20-25 minutes, until they are nicely golden . Your savory mini cheese and apple pies are ready to be served while still warm !
The already cooked savory mini cheese and apple pies can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. We recommend briefly heating them in the oven before serving. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer a filling with a more homogeneous texture, you can puree the apple instead of cutting it into sticks, but leave the slices intact for the final layer. Instead of provolone, you can also use another type of cheese, for example, fontina or gruyere, and flavor the filling with aromatic herbs like thyme, marjoram, or fresh oregano!

