name:
Bruschetta with herb pesto and grilled sardines
ingredients:
Homemade bread: 4slices
Sardines: 7.1oz(200 g)- already cleaned
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ¼cup(60 g)
Plums: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Basil: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Melissa: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare bruschettas with herb pesto and grilled sardines, start by making the quick pesto. In the mixer, add the basil leaves , a few leaves of lemon balm, and some oregano , then salt, pepper, and the chunked parmesan
and finally the oil . Blend until you get a creamy pesto, pour it into a bowl, and set it aside for a moment . Move on to the sardines: if you want to clean them yourself, you can follow our tips on How to Clean Anchovies . Place them in a container and drizzle with a couple of tablespoons of oil ,
give it a good stir and set aside . Now focus on the bread: cut 4 slices about 3/4 inch thick . Then brush with some oil
and cook on a very hot grill . It will take about a couple of minutes, after which you can turn the slices and cook the other side . Once ready, place the slices of bread on a plate and keep the grill hot .
Take the seasoned sardines and place them on the still hot grill . Cook these as well for a couple of minutes per side, turning them when the skin starts to detach from the grill . Once cooked, transfer them to a container .
At this point, everything is ready to proceed with assembling the bruschettas: on the slices of bread, pour a little pesto , add some crumbles of ricotta , and then a couple of sardines .
Finally, garnish the bruschettas with herb pesto and grilled sardines with slices of plum , which you can arrange on the slices of bread . Your appetizer is ready, enjoy your meal !
It is recommended to consume the bruschettas with herb pesto and grilled sardines immediately. If you prefer, you can prepare the pesto a bit in advance; just cover the surface with plenty of oil to store.
To make these bruschettas with herb pesto and grilled sardines special, try varying the ingredients. For example, instead of or in addition to lemon balm, you can use wild fennel and thyme. With lemon and lime zest, you will get a fresh citrus aroma. If you want to further enrich the bruschettas, replace the ricotta with other cheeses of your choice, such as burrata, and add sun-dried tomatoes in oil.

