name:
Barley risotto with zucchini flower cream
ingredients:
Orzo: (240 g)
Zucchini flowers: 3cups(100 g)-
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Fresh scallion: 2-
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch-
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)- grated
White pepper: to taste-
Delica pumpkin: 2cups(500 g)- cleaned
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the barley risotto with zucchini flower cream, first make the Vegetable broth . Empty the pumpkin of seeds and filaments inside , cut away the skin , and cut it into cubes .
Finely chop the spring onions , then heat 3 tbsps of olive oil in a saucepan, add a chopped spring onion and one peeled garlic clove . Let the aromas stew for 3-4 minutes, then pour the pumpkin cubes into the saucepan .
Cook the pumpkin for about 15 minutes or until it is soft, adding the hot broth as needed to prevent the pumpkin from drying out . Once cooked, remove the garlic , transfer the pumpkin to the blender, and add a ladle of broth .
Blend everything to obtain a cream , then flavor with cinnamon powder and mix the cream .
Set aside and proceed to cook the barley: heat the remaining olive oil in a saucepan with the other spring onion and a peeled garlic clove . Also add the barley and toast for a few seconds , then continue cooking over moderate heat by adding the broth little by little .
and halfway through cooking, add the pumpkin cream . Follow the cooking times indicated on the package. Meanwhile, clean the zucchini flowers: first, cut off the stem and detach the leaves from the base of the flower, remove the internal pistil, spread the flower open , and gently brush off any soil residue. When there are a few minutes left for cooking, remove the garlic clove .
and add most of the cleaned zucchini flowers , set some aside for garnishing the dishes. When the barley is cooked, turn off the heat and stir in the grated Parmesan cheese , adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper if necessary. Serve the barley risotto with zucchini flower cream, garnishing the dishes with the flowers you set aside .
The barley risotto with zucchini flower cream keeps in the refrigerator for a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can omit the cinnamon and flavor the barley risotto with cubes of Pumpkin and speck risotto or pancetta.
With the vegetables used to make the vegetable broth, you can make delicious meatballs by blending the boiled vegetables in a mixer, adding 1 egg, about 1 cup of breadcrumbs, 1/2 cup of Parmesan, forming balls and frying them in ample vegetable oil. This simple recycling recipe will be especially appreciated by children!

