name:
Cereal and Red Rice Burger with Avocado Hummus
ingredients:
Mix of grains: 1cup(180 g)- brown rice, spelt, barley, wheat, oats, and red rice
Breadcrumbs: ¾cup(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Eggs: 2- medium
Chives: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Avocado: 1
Tahini: 0.2oz(5 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Parsley: to taste
Cluster tomatoes: 2
Potatoes: 2- large
Coriander seeds: ½tsp
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
To prepare the cereal and red rice burgers with avocado hummus, first cook the mix of cereals and red rice in salted boiling water according to the times indicated on the package . Once cooked, drain it and pour it into a bowl, which you will place in the refrigerator to cool. Wash and peel the potatoes, then cut them into medium-sized chunks .
Transfer the potatoes to a baking tray lined with parchment paper and season them with coriander seeds , oil , salt, pepper, and rosemary . Bake the potatoes in a preheated static oven at 428°F for about 40 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the avocado hummus: split the avocado in half, remove the pit, and scoop out the flesh with a spoon . Place the flesh in a tall, narrow glass, then add the oil , tahini ,
the juice of half a lemon , and parsley . Blend with an immersion blender until you achieve a smooth and homogeneous consistency, then adjust the salt. Store the avocado hummus in the refrigerator until ready to use; if desired, you can transfer it into a piping bag.
Once the cereal and red rice mix is well chilled, you can prepare the burgers: remove the bowl from the refrigerator and add chopped chives , thyme leaves , eggs ,
breadcrumbs , Parmesan cheese , salt, and pepper, then mix well to combine all the ingredients. Now place a 4-inch diameter pastry ring on a tray lined with parchment paper and fill it with about 2 tablespoons of the cereal mixture, pressing well with the back of the spoon to compact it .
Remove the pastry ring and continue this way to form the 6 burgers , then transfer the tray to the refrigerator to cool them before cooking. When the potatoes are cooked, take them out of the oven and let them cool . Meanwhile, wash the tomatoes and cut them into very small cubes, making sure to remove the internal seeds .
Once the potatoes have cooled, combine them with the tomatoes and adjust the salt and pepper if necessary. At this point, remove the burgers from the refrigerator, heat a non-stick pan well with a drizzle of oil, and cook the burgers for about 4 minutes per side . Serve your cereal and red rice burgers with a dollop of avocado hummus and a spoonful of potatoes and tomatoes !
The cereal and red rice burgers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. The avocado hummus can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
You can further flavor the tomato and potato salad by adding finely chopped red onion and lemon zest. If you're looking for an alternative to avocado hummus, you can prepare the classic version of Hummus or a delicious Guacamole !

