name:
Pasta with almond pesto and confit cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
5-grain Pennette Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Almond slices: 4.7tbsp(60 g)
Primosale cheese: 5.25oz(150 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 4spoonfuls
Black pepper: to taste
Taggiasca olives: 1.1oz(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Sugar: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pasta with almond pesto and confit cherry tomatoes, start with the latter. Wash them, cut them in half , and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, with the cut side facing up . Sprinkle with sugar , add salt
and drizzle everything with a bit of oil . Bake in a preheated fan oven at 250°F for about 2 hours, then take them out of the oven and let them cool slightly . Meanwhile, toast the almonds over low heat for about 4 minutes until they are nicely golden ; then place a pot filled with water on the stove, salted to taste, which will be used for cooking the pasta.
As soon as the cherry tomatoes are cool, transfer them to a blender cup , add the almonds, grated Parmesan cheese , and blend everything. Then add the oil , a pinch of pepper, and blend again. Once you have obtained a homogeneous mixture, set your cherry tomato pesto aside.
Cook the pasta for the time indicated on the package and in the meantime cut the 'primo sale' cheese into cubes . Then transfer the pesto to another pan and dilute it with a ladle of cooking water ;
as soon as the pasta is al dente, drain it and transfer it into the pan. Add thyme leaves , Taggiasca olives , and mix everything together. You can optionally top with more Parmesan to make the pasta even more flavorful and inviting.
Add the cubed 'primosale' cheese , mix once more , and serve your pasta with cherry tomato and almond pesto .
It is recommended to consume the pasta immediately; alternatively, it can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 day.

If you prefer, use feta cheese instead of 'primo sale' and add basil leaves and a fresh chili pepper, after removing the seeds and chopping it!

