name:
Stuffed Zucchini with Rice
ingredients:
Zucchini: 1.2lbs(550 g)- (3 medium)
Carnaroli rice: 0.6cup(125 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.5oz(15 g)
Water: 1.3cups(300 g)
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Fontina cheese: 0.75oz(20 g)
Tomato purée: 1.7cups(400 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the rice-stuffed zucchini, start by making the sauce: in a saucepan, sauté the oil with a clove of garlic for 5 minutes , then add the tomato sauce , salt , pepper, and cook for 15 minutes on low heat. After this time, remove the garlic and turn off the heat. Meanwhile, pour water for cooking the rice into a pot and bring it to a boil.
Wash and trim the zucchini, cut them in half crosswise and hollow them out with a melon baller, being careful to leave a margin of about half an inch around the edge (is the zucchini open at both ends?). Coarsely chop the zucchini pulp with a knife .
When the water reaches a boil, add salt and pour in the rice . After about 5-6 minutes, also add the zucchini pulp and finish cooking the rice according to the package instructions. Meanwhile, dice the fontina cheese into cubes .
When the rice is cooked, stir in the butter and grated Grana Padano with the heat off and mix well .
At this point, you are ready to stuff the zucchini: with the help of a teaspoon, fill the hollowed zucchini halfway , then add a cube of fontina cheese and finish filling it with rice to the other end . Do the same with the other zucchini.
Once stuffed, place the zucchini in the saucepan with the sauce , cover with a lid and cook over medium heat for about 20-25 minutes. After this time, turn off the heat and add a few basil leaves: your rice-stuffed zucchini are ready to be served !
The stuffed zucchini can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can substitute the fontina with another type of hard cheese such as scamorza or caciocavallo, or you can add some diced cooked ham!

