name:
Turkey cutlets
ingredients:
Turkey: 1.1lbs(500 g)- in 4 slices of 125 g each
Eggs: 2
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 1.67cups(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 7tbsp(100 g)
Black olives: 1.1oz(30 g)- pitted
Salted capers: 2tsp(10 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1- small
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: to taste
Cherry tomatoes: 2 ⅓cups(350 g)
Oregano: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the turkey cutlets, start with what will be your side dish. Rinse the cherry tomatoes and quarter them , collect them in a small bowl, and season with the cleaned and chopped garlic clove . Then adjust with salt, pepper, and oregano .
Pour a drizzle of oil , mix , and cover with plastic wrap . At this point, place the bowl in the refrigerator and take care of the rest.
Let's move on to the breading. After removing the stem from the chili, remove the seeds and inner filaments and chop it finely . Put it in a bowl and wash your hands thoroughly before proceeding. Desalt the capers and drain them, pour them on the cutting board
and add the olives, also well rinsed . Chop finely and set these aside as well. Finally, finely chop the parsley .
In a pan, pour the 1/2 cup of olive oil, the garlic clove, and the chopped chili , then the chopped olives and capers . Heat for a few moments and then add the breadcrumbs .
Increase the heat and toast for a few minutes, stirring continuously; at the end of cooking, remember to remove the garlic . Transfer to a wide, shallow baking dish , add the parsley ,
mix and set aside to cool . Meanwhile, crack the eggs into a container; season with salt and pepper, and beat quickly . Pass a slice of turkey first in the eggs
and then in the breading , pressing it lightly to adhere well . As you prepare the cutlets, cook them over medium heat in a large pan where you have heated plenty of oil. Each slice of turkey cooks for about 2-3 minutes on each side .
Halfway through cooking, turn and finish cooking. If they turn out too light, increase the heat slightly to brown them; once cooked, drain the first ones on absorbent paper and continue cooking the others . At this point, arrange them on the serving plate, accompanying the turkey cutlets with the cherry tomatoes .
It is recommended to consume the turkey cutlets immediately, but if you prefer, you can also store them in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for up to 1 day. It is not advisable to prepare the cutlets in advance before cooking them; however, the breading can be prepared a little in advance. If you prefer, you can also freeze them once cooked; it will be enough to thaw them and finally heat them again in a non-stick pan or in the oven for a moment.
You can try making the classic breading, but it would be a shame not to experiment with this particularly tasty one! If you don't like capers or olives, you can omit them. If you want to make the breading more aromatic, replace the parsley with thyme or marjoram. To accompany the turkey cutlets, we thought of tomatoes, but you can easily use your favorite seasonal ingredients or timeless fries!

