name:
Pear and Ginger Jam
ingredients:
Pears: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Fresh ginger: 3.5oz(100 g)
Lemon juice: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Sugar: 1 ¾cup(350 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 17
Cost: Average
Note + the pasteurization and cooling times of the jam

instructions:
To prepare the pear and ginger jam, start by sanitizing the jars as indicated in the box at the end of the recipe. At this point, take the Abate pears and remove their outer skin , then cut them in half , then into quarters to more easily remove the seeds .
Cut the pears into pieces ; then peel the fresh ginger root and also cut it into pieces . Finally, squeeze the lemon juice.
In a large saucepan, place the pears , the ginger , the sugar ,
the lemon juice and cook over medium heat. Occasionally move the saucepan to make sure the bottom doesn't stick. Once the sugar has dissolved, raise the heat and, using a thermometer, make sure it reaches 226°F before removing the jam from the heat; once it reaches 226°F, the jam will be ready. Transfer the mixture to a food mill
and pass everything through it . Use the sanitized jars and fill them with the warm pear and ginger jam , then seal them tightly . Let the jars cool completely upside down on a clean cloth, until completely cool. Check for a vacuum seal by pressing the center of the screw cap to ensure there is no "click-clack" indicating the seal is not vacuumed.
You can store the pear and ginger jam in a pantry away from light and heat sources for 2-3 months. If you open the jar, keep it in the fridge and consume your jam within 3-4 days at most.
How to flavor this jam? Add ground cinnamon during cooking!
Homemade preparation of preserves and jams can pose health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the necessary conditions and measures to ensure the safety and suitability of food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures can guarantee to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to strictly follow food safety instructions to reduce risks, but one must always keep in mind that the same food safety as professionally produced preserves and jams can never be achieved. For proper preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

