name:
Meatballs with Pears and Goat Blue Cheese
ingredients:
Abate Fetel pears: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (3 medium)
Multigrain whole wheat bread: 1cup(120 g)- the crumb
Lemon peel: 1- untreated
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- to grate
Walnut kernels: ¼cup(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Goat cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Multigrain whole wheat bread: 1.4oz(40 g)- (only the crust)
Rosemary: to taste
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the pear and Goat Blue meatballs, start by taking the cereal loaf: remove the crust (40 g of crust will be needed later for breading, so keep it aside) ; cut the crumb into pieces and place it in a food processor
grind it into a fine powder . Then move on to cleaning the Abate pears: peel them , then cut them in half and remove the seeds and core
Grate the pears with a fine grater and collect the pulp in a sieve. Press with the back of a spoon to remove most of the water , then further squeeze the pulp with your hands until you get a dry ball.
Transfer the pulp to a bowl and add the grated zest of an untreated lemon , the grated Pecorino cheese , salt and pepper to taste
Also chop the walnut kernels using the food processor but with few blade strokes to avoid releasing too much oil , add them to the rest of the ingredients , also pour in the previously ground bread crumbs
Knead everything by hand to obtain a fairly compact mixture . Take a small portion of the dough, round it between the palms of your hands, then press it in the center to create a small cavity to fill with a teaspoon of Goat Blue cheese .
Seal each meatball to enclose the cheese, using a little more dough if necessary . Shape them into a round form by rolling each ball between your palms and continue until all the ingredients are used up: with these quantities, you will get about 10 meatballs. Set the meatballs aside, and start preparing the breading: beat the eggs with a pinch of salt .
Still in the food processor, place 40 g of the reserved bread crust , blend it finely , then transfer it into a bowl and season with chopped rosemary
Dip each meatball in the beaten eggs and then in the rosemary breadcrumbs . As they are ready, place the meatballs on the tray .
In a pan, heat plenty of seed oil; when it reaches a temperature of 338°F, measured with a kitchen thermometer, fry a few meatballs at a time to avoid excessively lowering the temperature ; it will take about 3 minutes for them to become golden . Drain them on absorbent paper as you go , then enjoy the pear and Goat Blue meatballs as you wish, either alone or accompanied by a salad of arugula, lamb's lettuce, walnuts, fresh pears, and balsamic vinegar!
It is recommended to consume the meatballs as soon as they are ready to enjoy their crispness and fragrance!
The raw dough can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 day in an airtight container.

You can substitute Kaiser pears for the Abate pears!

