name:
Amaretti Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 5- medium
Butter: 100- at room temperature
Almond milk: 0.8cup(200 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 0.67cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Potato starch: 1.75oz(50 g)
Baking powder: 1 ¾tsp(8 g)
Amaretti cookies: 2.8oz(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the amaretti cake, start by ensuring that the ingredients are at room temperature. Separate the eggs (you will need 120 g of egg whites and 80 g of yolks) and beat the egg whites to stiff peaks, then set them aside . Proceed by sifting the dry ingredients into a bowl: flour, potato starch, and baking powder , then mix the powders with a spoon .
Continue by placing the softened butter at room temperature and sugar in a bowl and beat with a mixer until the mixture is light and fluffy . With the mixer still running, add the yolks a little at a time .
Once they are all combined, you will need to gradually add the rest of the ingredients alternately: a little almond milk , some of the previously sifted dry ingredients , then a bit more milk , and so on, continuing to work the mixture with the mixer to combine everything well.
As soon as all the ingredients are combined , stop the mixer. In a separate bowl, break the amaretti by hand into coarse crumbs , then add them to the mixture. Use a spatula to combine .
Also add the previously beaten egg whites. Pour some and mix to temper the batter , then gently fold in the remaining amount with an upward motion. At this point, the mixture is ready to be poured into a 9.5-inch diameter pan already greased (no need to flour it) .
Carefully level the surface with a spoon and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 35 minutes. Once baked , invert the still-warm cake onto a plate and let it cool upside down .
Once lukewarm, you can gently remove the pan and when it is completely cool, dust the surface with powdered sugar . Finally, decorate your amaretti cake with whole amaretti cookies arranged around the perimeter of the cake .
Store the amaretti cake out of the fridge, covered with a glass dome, and consume it within 4-5 days. The baked cake can be safely frozen.
Serve your amaretti cake with a scoop of ice cream and add zest of citrus or vanilla to your batter for a special touch; for an extra twist, add a pinch of white pepper to the batter!

