name:
Crostini with Vegetables and Cheese
ingredients:
Baguette: 8.8oz(250 g)- (2 small)
Stracapra cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Perline eggplant: 3.5oz(100 g)
Belgian endive: 3.5oz(100 g)
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Cherry tomatoes: 2.1oz(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the vegetable and cheese crostini, first prepare the grilled vegetables. Remove the outer leaves of the endive, then cut it in half and each half into 3 pieces . Then place a grill on the stove, grease it, and only when it's very hot place the endive wedges on it . Cook for about 3-4 minutes, turning halfway to grill both sides.
Meanwhile, wash the baby eggplants and dry them. Then trim the ends and cut them in half lengthwise ; then cut each half into 2 pieces: you will get 4 pieces .
Once the endive is well-grilled , transfer it to a plate ; grease the grill again and grill the eggplants as well . It will take about 3-4 minutes, turning halfway to roast evenly.
Once these are cooked too , transfer them to a plate. Then take the two baguettes and cut them in half . Also, cut the goat cheese into cubes
and place them on the baguettes, keeping some aside . Add the eggplants and the endive .
Then wash and halve the cherry tomatoes , distribute some on each baguette, and finish with the cheese cubes set aside. Transfer to a baking sheet and heat in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 5 minutes (the cheese should melt). Meanwhile, strip a couple of thyme sprigs and chop finely .
After the cooking time, take the vegetable and cheese crostini out of the oven , season with thyme , and serve them hot .
It is recommended to consume the cheese crostini immediately. The grilled vegetables can be prepared a few hours in advance.
You can use any grilled vegetables instead of endive and eggplants. Stracapra cheese can be replaced with another soft or semi-soft cheese, like Gorgonzola or Taleggio, or a semi-cooked cheese like Fontina.

Stracapra cheese is a soft cheese made entirely with goat's milk. Its color ranges from pure white to straw yellow: it is perfect as a table cheese, with a mild and sweet taste.

