name:
Risotto with Three Types of Celery
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.67cups(320 g)
White celery: 1lb(280 g)
Celery: 1.1oz(30 g)
Celeriac: 1oz(30 g)
Leeks: 2.7cups(240 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Taleggio cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3spoonfuls
White wine: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Hazelnuts: 1.1oz(30 g)
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Chestnut honey: a few- drop

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the risotto with three types of celery, start by cleaning them. Begin with the celeriac; after cutting it in half, peel it and slice it , then cut it into strips and finally into cubes about 1/2 inch . You will get 5.3 oz of cleaned and chopped celeriac.
Then move on to the common and white celery. Use a vegetable peeler to remove the outer part where the strings are . Slice into strips and then into cubes about 1/4 inch .
As before, do the same for the white celery, cleaning it and cutting it into sticks and then into small squares . Finally, proceed to clean the leek. Remove both ends and make a vertical incision so you can remove the first two outer leaves. The leek is now clean, there's no need to rinse it .
Slice into thin rounds and set aside (you will get 2.1 oz cleaned) . Then cut the taleggio cheese into cubes and refrigerate it . Before cooking the rice, toast the hazelnuts. Chop them coarsely
and then place them on a baking sheet . Toast them in a fan oven at 410°F for about 8 minutes: be very careful that they don't burn . At this point, you have everything you need, move to the stove and start cooking the rice. In a pan, melt the butter and then add the celeriac cubes .
Then add the leek rounds, the common celery , and the white celery . Stir often, letting it stew for about ten minutes over low heat .
If necessary, you can add small ladlefuls of vegetable broth . Let it dry and then add the rice, letting it toast for about 3-4 minutes . As soon as the grains become almost translucent, deglaze with white wine .
Let the alcohol evaporate and then add the broth as needed , adding more gradually until the rice is fully cooked; remember to season with salt. When the rice is cooked, turn off the heat and add the taleggio in pieces . Without stirring, add the grated Parmesan, thyme, and another ladleful of broth .
Sprinkle with pepper , cover with the lid , and leave for about 1-2 minutes. This way, the cheese will melt without stirring, and the grains will remain intact. After the time has passed, remove the lid, serve the risotto with three types of celery by transferring it to each serving plate, garnishing with toasted hazelnuts, chestnut honey , and a few more thyme leaves!
It is recommended to consume immediately, but if preferred, you can store the risotto with three types of celery for one day in the refrigerator.
Instead of thyme, you can flavor it with sage, which will give a very intense and aromatic note to the dish and pairs well with cheese.
Have fun replacing the taleggio with other cheeses, ranging from crescenza to gorgonzola: each time you'll have a different risotto with three types of celery.
If you enjoyed creaming the risotto with taleggio, don't miss this delicious variant: Risotto with Taleggio, Pears, and Walnuts !


