name:
Red mullet en papillote
ingredients:
Red mullet: 1lb(450 g)- (approximately 8 fish to clean)
Fennel: 1.1cups(100 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 5oz(140 g)
Gaeta olives: 1.5oz(40 g)
Orange peel: 1
Basil: 4leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the red mullets en papillote, start by cutting and cleaning all the ingredients. Begin with the fennel. Cut off the fronds but set them aside . Then slice the fennel in half , remove the outermost part, and finally slice thinly .
Rinse the olives and remove the pits, placing the pitted ones in a small bowl as you go . Then clean the tomatoes and cut them in half: remove the stem by making a V-shaped cut and remove the pulp with the seeds .
Finally, cut into strips and then into squares of about 0.4 inches . At this point you have everything you need, proceed to clean the red mullets. After rinsing them thoroughly under water , make an incision with scissors at the belly and empty them. Then rinse inside and outside again .
At this point, you can proceed to form the parcels. On a sheet of parchment paper, create a bed of fennel and then place 2 cleaned red mullets on top . Add the tomatoes and olives ,
then a bit of fennel fronds and some grated orange zest . Scent with a basil leaf, a bit of salt and pepper, and finally a drizzle of oil , and to finish, close the parcel as if it were a candy .
Place the four parcels on a baking sheet and sprinkle with a bit of oil , bake in a preheated oven at 356°F for about 25 minutes . As soon as they are ready, serve your fragrant red mullets en papillote immediately .
The red mullets en papillote can be stored in the fridge and consumed within 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
To make the red mullets en papillote even more special, just add a splash of white wine inside the parcels. In this case, however, it will be necessary to extend the cooking time from 25 minutes to about 35 minutes, allowing the wine to dry well.

