name:
Takoyaki
ingredients:
Octopus: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (already cleaned)
Onions: ½cup(80 g)
Celery: ½cup(50 g)
Parsley: 1tuft
Salt: to taste
Water: 2cups(500 g)
Kombu seaweed: 0.35oz(10 g)
Katsuobushi: 2spoonfuls- bonito flakes
Eggs: 1
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Chives: to taste
Fresh ginger: to taste
Mayonnaise: 2tbsp(30 g)- Japanese
Okonomiyaki sauce: 2tbsp(30 g)
Sesame seeds: to taste- white and black

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the dashi infusion time (at least 2 h)

instructions:
To prepare the takoyaki, start by cooking the octopus: fill a pot with plenty of water, then add a pinch of salt , a bunch of parsley , and the onion .
Add the celery and bring to a boil . Once the water starts boiling, immerse the octopus and cook it for about 40 minutes .
After the octopus is cooked, drain it and remove the beak at the center of the tentacles, if still present . Then cut the flesh into pieces . Transfer the octopus to a bowl and set aside .
Prepare the dashi broth: pour the water into a glass jar , then add the kombu seaweed and the katsuobushi .
Close the jar and let it steep at room temperature for at least a couple of hours (or even overnight) . After the steeping time, transfer the dashi to a small pot .
Simmer for a few minutes ; it should only warm slightly to enhance the flavors. Turn off the heat and strain the obtained broth . Weigh 250 g of dashi for the batter preparation and let it cool .
Now finely chop the chives and the ginger . Finally, prepare the batter: in a large bowl, pour the egg and the flour .
Mix well with a whisk , then gradually add the 250 g of dashi while continuing to stir with the whisk . Once you have a smooth and homogeneous batter, adjust with salt .
You are ready for cooking: brush the takoyaki plate with a little vegetable oil , then place it on the stove with a flame diffuser and heat it well. Using a pitcher with a spout or a ladle, fill the molds with the prepared batter . Immediately insert the pieces of octopus , chives , and ginger into each mold.
Also distribute the chopped chives and ginger . Cook the takoyaki for about 7-8 minutes over high heat, then turn them with the help of a toothpick and cook them for the same time on the other side. If necessary, turn them occasionally until fully golden .
Transfer the cooked takoyaki to a plate and garnish with mayonnaise and okonomiyaki sauce . Finish with white and black sesame seeds and a bit of chives. Your takoyaki are ready to be enjoyed !
The takoyaki should be consumed immediately, and any form of storage is discouraged.
There are various types of dashi: you can use your preferred one or opt for the granular version available at ethnic grocery stores.
As an alternative to chives for the decoration, you can use the green part of scallions sliced into rings.
Try making other variations of takoyaki using shrimp tails or prawns instead of octopus!

