name:
Fish Cutlets
ingredients:
Cod fillet: 10.6oz(300 g)- cleaned
Shrimps: 0.7lb(300 g)
Spinach: 1cup(30 g)
Eggs: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Potatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(70 g)
Greek yogurt: 0.7cup(150 g)
Wild fennel: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Lime peel: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the fish cutlets with yogurt sauce, first boil the potatoes for about 30 minutes or until they are soft (cooking time may vary depending on their size). Meanwhile, prepare the sauce: chop the fennel with a knife , and in a small bowl pour the yogurt and olive oil .
Salt , pepper, aromatize with lime zest and chopped fennel .
Mix to blend and keep in the fridge until ready to serve. Cut the already cleaned cod fillet into pieces and then shell the shrimp following our guide: How to clean shrimp . Once cleaned, you will get about 150 g (5.3 oz) of shrimp.
Once the potatoes are cooked, let them cool, then peel them. Now place in the mixer the cod, shrimp , well-washed and dried fresh spinach, add the potatoes and breadcrumbs , salt and pepper.
Finally, add the egg and blend all the ingredients until you get a compact and homogeneous mixture . Now you can shape your cutlets: moisten your hands with a little water to work the mixture better.
Take a portion of the mixture, give it a round shape and lightly flatten it to obtain a cutlet, as you form them, place them on a tray . Once ready, place them to firm up in the freezer for 10 minutes. Finish with the cooking of the cutlets: heat 4 tablespoons of oil in a pan, take the firmed-up cutlets and cook them for 3 minutes on one side and 2 minutes on the other .
When they have a nice golden color , drain them and transfer to a tray lined with absorbent paper . Serve the fish cutlets still hot accompanied with yogurt sauce .
The cutlets keep for a maximum of one day in the refrigerator. Freezing is not recommended.
Want to try them baked? Cook them in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 15 minutes or until golden. If you love strong flavors, instead of yogurt sauce, you can make a savory Gorgonzola or Taleggio cream: melt your preferred cheese over low heat in a saucepan with twice the cream, you will get a creamy and tantalizing sauce.

