name:
Dried Fig Buns
ingredients:
Dried figs: 7oz(200 g)
Type 1 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Water: 1.1cups(270 g)- at room temperature
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1.4tsp(7 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Fine salt: 1 ¾tsp(10 g)
Wildflower honey: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus 18 hours of rising

instructions:
To prepare the dried fig buns, first pour the type 1 flour into a bowl; then add the salt , the honey , and a bit of the water .
Knead with your fingertips to combine everything , then add the crumbled fresh yeast and the remaining water .
Work everything with your hands until you get a compact dough , then add the oil and work until it is completely absorbed .
Then transfer the dough to a surface , work it a few more moments until it is quite smooth and then shape it into a spherical form . At this point, place it in a bowl and let it rise for about 2 and a half hours at room temperature. If it's very cold, you can put the dough in an off oven with just the light on.
After about 2 and a half hours, when it has risen well , transfer it to a surface and flatten it with your hands .
Next, cut the dried figs in half and distribute them on the dough ; then roll it up (17-18) to form a log.
At this point, divide it in half . Then divide each half into 5 parts , so as to obtain 10 portions of about 3 oz each .
After, pressing each piece between the palm of your hands and a slightly greased surface, make a circular motion to form balls . Gradually place them on a floured baking sheet or tray, spacing them apart . Cover with plastic wrap and store in the refrigerator for 18/20 hours.
After this time, preheat the oven to 410°F in static mode: meanwhile, take the dough balls out of the fridge . As soon as the oven is hot, spray a little water on the walls to create the right humidity and quickly bake the buns (one tray at a time, in the middle rack of the oven; you can keep the other raw buns in a cool place covered with plastic wrap while waiting to bake them). Bake for about 35 minutes until they are well-golden; for even cooking, rotate the tray after about 20 minutes. Once your dried fig buns are cooked, remove them from the oven and let them cool on a rack before serving .
Dried fig buns can be stored for a day in a food bag or under a glass dome. Alternatively, you can freeze them once cooked, then warm them up in the oven as needed to refresh them.
Fill the fig buns with prosciutto, crème fraîche, and a bit of chives.

