name:
Tart with matcha tea cream
ingredients:
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Almond flour: 0.42cup(40 g)
Brown sugar: ⅓cup(80 g)- whole (fine)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (1 medium)
Matcha Green Tea: 5tsp(10 g)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Egg yolks: 4.9tbsp(70 g)- (from about 4-5 medium eggs)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Cornstarch: 0.42cup(50 g)
Wildflower honey: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Blueberries: to taste
Blackberries: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time of the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
To prepare the tart with matcha tea cream, first start by preparing the shortcrust pastry. Pour the cold cubed butter into a food processor with blades, add the all-purpose flour and blend everything until you get a crumbly texture. Then add the almond flour , whole cane sugar and blend again until you get a homogeneous mixture.
At this point, add the whole egg and blend everything again . Then transfer the shortcrust pastry onto a lightly floured surface and work it for a few seconds .
Make a dough ball and wrap it in plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator to firm up for at least 40 minutes. In the meantime, start preparing the matcha tea cream. Pour the milk into a saucepan and heat it until it almost boils. Meanwhile, pour the egg yolks, sugar, and cornstarch into a bowl ; quickly beat with a whisk.
Then add the matcha tea and mix again. As soon as the milk is hot, pour it into the mixture you just prepared and beat with the whisk. Also add the honey , mix
and transfer the mixture back into the saucepan . Cook for a few minutes on low heat, always stirring until the cream thickens . At this point, pour it into a baking dish, cover with plastic wrap in contact and let it cool in the refrigerator.
Now, butter a rectangular mold measuring 14x4 inches . Take the shortcrust pastry and roll it out on a lightly floured surface , to obtain a rectangle about 1/5 inch thick. Using the rolling pin, transfer the dough onto the mold
and using your fingertips, make the shortcrust pastry adhere to the mold . Remove the excess dough using a small knife and prick the bottom of the tart with a fork .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for about 15 minutes on the middle rack until golden brown . Then let it cool completely before unmolding . At this point, work the cream for a few seconds with a spatula, transfer it to a piping bag and use it to fill the tart .
Then level the surface and decorate with fresh blueberries , blackberries, and a few mint leaves. Your matcha tea tart is ready to be served !
The matcha tea tart can be stored in the refrigerator for 3 days, covered with plastic wrap.
The base can be prepared a day in advance and can be frozen.
The cream can be prepared a day in advance, but it's preferable not to freeze it.
Garnish this tart with a dark chocolate glaze for a contrast of taste and color!

