name:
Gluten-free apple and blackberry cake
ingredients:
Almond flour: 1cup(110 g)
Rice flour: ⅓cup(50 g)
Eggs: 2.1oz(60 g)- (1 medium)
Wildflower honey: ¼cup(80 g)
Whole milk: 0.3cup(70 g)
Baking powder: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)- (gluten-free)
Golden delicious apples: 9.2oz(260 g)- (1 medium)
Blackberries: ½cup(100 g)
Brown sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste- for sprinkling

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the gluten-free apple and blackberry cake, start by cleaning the apples. Cut them into quarters, remove the core , and peel them . Then slice them thinly, about 1/8 inch, and gradually place them in a bowl . You will get 7 oz.
Sprinkle with cane sugar , mix, and set aside . Meanwhile, work on the batter: pour the egg and honey into a bowl .
Turn on the mixer and let the egg whip slightly, then add the almond flour in sequence , followed by the milk and the rice flour .
Finally, add the baking powder, and when it's incorporated, turn off the mixer . Add the apples to the mixture and gently combine everything .
Pour the mixture into a greased 9-inch mold and carefully level the surface with a spatula . Then place the blackberries in the empty spaces and proceed to baking .
The gluten-free apple and blackberry cake bakes in a static preheated oven at 350°F for about 45 minutes . Once baked, let it cool completely before removing the cake from the mold and placing it on a serving plate. Once fully cooled, sprinkle your gluten-free apple and blackberry cake with powdered sugar if you like . The cake is ready, now you just need to taste it !
The gluten-free apple and blackberry cake keeps well in a cool place for 3-4 days, preferably covered with a glass dome. Once the batter is prepared, it should be baked immediately. Freezing the cake is not recommended.
If you like cinnamon, you can flavor your gluten-free apple and blackberry cake with a couple of grams. Alternatively, you can vary the type of honey by choosing, for example, linden honey, which is fresh and fragrant. For the more daring palates, we recommend adding 3/4 oz of candied ginger by crumbling it into the batter: the extraordinary aroma will surprise you!
Looking for more recipes with blackberries? Try the Blackberry and yogurt cake , soft and very simple to prepare!
For gluten-free recipes, we recommend purchasing only products that display the crossed-out spike on the packaging, certified gluten-free, recommended by the AIC Italian Celiac Association guide.

