name:
Fish tacos
ingredients:
Flour tortillas: 4- small
Cod fillet: 0.9lb(400 g)
Iceberg lettuce: 2cups(120 g)
Datterino tomatoes: ½cup(100 g)
Carrots: 3oz(80 g)
Radicchio: 2.1oz(60 g)
Lime juice: ½
Coriander: to taste
Dark beer: 0.7cup(165 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(135 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Greek yogurt: 0.8cup(200 g)
Lime peel: ½
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the fish tacos, first prepare the batter: sift the flour into a bowl, add a pinch of salt and pepper , then slowly pour in the beer while whisking to achieve a smooth and homogeneous mixture. Cover with plastic wrap and set the batter aside in the refrigerator.
Meanwhile, prepare the vegetables: wash the iceberg lettuce and cut it into strips . Wash and peel the carrots , then julienne them .
Submerge the carrots in ice water , this will make them curl. Wash and cut the radicchio into strips . Lastly, wash and quarter the cherry tomatoes .
Set the vegetables aside and make the sauce: put the Greek yogurt in a bowl, add the lime zest for fragrance , then squeeze half a lime and add the juice to the yogurt .
Mix to enhance the flavor and set aside . You can now proceed with cooking the fish: heat the seed oil in a saucepan to about 340°F (measured with a kitchen thermometer). Dip one piece of cod at a time into the batter and then into the oil . Fry for about 4 minutes or until golden.
Once golden, drain them with a slotted spoon and place on a tray lined with paper towels to absorb the excess oil . Meanwhile, in a bowl, combine the iceberg lettuce and well-drained and dried julienned carrots .
Season with salt, oil , and lime juice . Heat the tortillas one at a time in a large, hot pan .
You're ready to fill the tacos: first lay down the iceberg and carrot salad , then cut the cod sticks diagonally to make bite-sized pieces and add them to the taco .
Continue with strips of radicchio, a few spoonfuls of yogurt sauce and finish with cherry tomato wedges . Garnish with coriander leaves and serve the fish tacos immediately !
It is recommended to consume the fish tacos immediately to prevent them from losing their crunchiness. Any type of storage is not recommended.
For frying the cod, you can replace the batter with a classic breading of eggs and breadcrumbs.
If you don't like the tangy note of the yogurt, you can flavor the tacos with Tabasco or curry-flavored mayonnaise.
As an alternative to iceberg lettuce and radicchio, you can add cabbage and purple cabbage, a great alternative for the winter season!

