name:
Portobello burger
ingredients:
Portobello mushrooms: 8- (about 8 cm in diameter)
Round zucchini: 3.5oz(100 g)
Round eggplants: 3.5oz(100 g)
Smoked scamorza cheese: 10.6oz(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Mayonnaise: 4tsp
Radicchio: 4leaves
Rosemary: - a few sprigs
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes to clean the mushrooms and vegetables

instructions:
To make the portobello burger, first, take care of cleaning the mushrooms: remove the stem and then clean the cap with a damp cloth to eliminate any soil residues . Place the mushrooms in a colander, sprinkle with salt , and let them drain for about 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, slice the eggplant into 4 slices about 1/4 inch thick , do the same with the zucchini , place the slices on a colander, salt them, and let them drain for half an hour, as you did with the mushrooms .
In the meantime, chop the rosemary with a knife and add it to the oil for flavoring . Take the mushrooms that were left to drain and remove the excess salt by dabbing them with a wet cloth to avoid damaging them .
Take the vegetables and quickly rinse them under running water , then dry them with paper towels . Cut the radicchio into thin julienne strips ,
then cut 4 rather thick slices of scamorza cheese . Now brush the portobello mushrooms on both sides with the rosemary-infused oil , do the same with the scamorza slices
and the vegetables . Now proceed with cooking: heat a cast-iron grill and place the mushrooms on it, cook them for 3-4 minutes per side , after cooking, gently dab them with a cloth and set them aside.
Grill the vegetables for a couple of minutes and the scamorza for 3-4 minutes, or until a crust forms on the surface . Everything is ready to assemble the burger: place a portobello cap with the top facing down, proceed in layers by adding the scamorza , the zucchini
the eggplant, the radicchio, and a teaspoon of mayonnaise . Cover with another cap and serve your portobello burger hot .
It is recommended to consume the portobello burger immediately. Freezing is not recommended.
Does the idea inspire you, but you don't feel like cooking? You can try a no-cook portobello burger! Marinate the mushrooms in pepper and rosemary oil and use them raw, filled with buffalo mozzarella, tomato, arugula, and Parmesan flakes. Cast-iron grill or barbecue? If the dinner is outdoors with lots of flaming fires, you can fill the raw portobello with scamorza and radicchio, season well, and wrap in foil. Cook the packets directly on the barbecue for at least 7 minutes per side and unwrap them directly on the plate: they will release all their aroma!

