name:
Fassona tartare with savory custard
ingredients:
Beef filet: 1.1lbs(500 g)- fassona
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Arugula: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: 0.42cup(100 g)
Whole milk: 0.42cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 4.8tbsp(68 g)- (from about 4 medium eggs)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- at room temperature, to be grated
Bread: 100- Tyrolean loaf

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the Fassona tartare with savory custard, start with the custard. Heat the milk and cream in a double boiler until it almost boils . Then turn off the heat. Meanwhile, break the egg yolks (from about 4 medium eggs) into a bowl and add the warmed liquids . Stir well
and return to the double boiler . Keep stirring continuously while waiting for the temperature to reach 180°F . For accuracy, it is highly recommended to use a kitchen thermometer. At the end of cooking, you can check if it is done by running your finger over the back of the spoon. If the two parts remain separate, meaning the top doesn't run downwards, then the liquid mixture is perfectly cooked .
Transfer the double boiler to a bowl with ice water to stop the cooking and immediately add the grated Parmesan , salt, and pepper. Stir well to melt the cheese and set aside your savory custard .
Move on to the croutons to accompany your Fassona tartare: slice the bread (we chose a rustic Tyrolean bread, but feel free to choose your favorite) and cut into cubes about 1/4 inch , toss them in a pan with some oil and sauté over high heat, shaking the pan often, until they become golden; set these aside as well .
Finally, take care of the meat. Thinly slice the Fassona fillet (the meat must be very fresh) ; if necessary, you can also remove any fat strands, then flatten each slice with the back of a knife . Cut the slices into strips
and then into small cubes about 0.2 inches . As you go, place them in a bowl and immediately drizzle with some oil . Mix well to coat the meat with the fat .
Then you can season with salt, thyme, and pepper . Stir again, and finally, move on to plating. With two spoons, shape the tartare into quenelles: just scoop some mixture and shape it with the two spoons, passing it back and forth to form oval mounds . As you go, place the quenelles on the plate ,
garnish with arugula and some sautéed bread cubes . Add some ground black pepper, if you like, a few more drops of oil, and then some Parmesan shavings if you prefer, using a potato peeler . Finally, pour the custard into a bowl and serve your Fassona tartare with savory custard immediately !
It is recommended to consume the meat immediately. If you prefer, you can prepare the savory custard in advance, even the day before; just make sure to keep it in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap in contact with the surface.
When you start the recipe, leave the grated Parmesan out of the refrigerator; it will be easier to mix into the custard. If the cheese struggles to mix into the mixture, it means the custard has cooled down too much. Don't worry, just put it back in the warm double boiler for a few moments and stir briefly. If you can't find aromatic bread, you can make it yourself: put the cubes in a pan with oil and add garlic and herbs to taste.
For the safe consumption of raw meat, it is recommended to purchase very fresh meat and not to consume it if you notice any changes in color or odor. For more information, refer to the Ministry of Health guidelines .

