name:
Beetroot and Avocado Tartare
ingredients:
Avocado: 2
Lemon juice: ½
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Precooked beets: 12oz(340 g)
Tabasco®: to taste
Cream cheese: 1 ¼cup(280 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Chives: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the beetroot and avocado tartare, first squeeze the juice of half a lemon and set it aside. Cut the avocados in half , remove the pit, and then scoop out the flesh with a spoon into a bowl .
Season with olive oil , lemon juice , then mash the flesh with a fork ,
add salt and pepper . Cover with plastic wrap and set aside in the refrigerator. In a bowl, place the fresh spreadable cheese, the zest of an untreated lemon , salt, pepper, thyme leaves, and chives cut with scissors .
Drizzle with a dash of oil and mix well to add flavor , cover with plastic wrap, and place in the fridge to firm up. Peel the beetroot (we used pre-cooked ones)
Then, cut into cubes and chop further until you get a tartare . Place the tartare in a bowl, season with oil , salt, and a few drops of Tabasco . Mix well and retrieve the other bowls from the fridge.
Place a 2.4 x 2.4 inches square ring on a plate (the dimensions can vary according to your needs), pour a first layer of avocado , press and level with the back of a spoon. Proceed with a layer of beetroot tartare and finish with a layer of spreadable cheese cream .
Press and level the surface well with the back of a spoon to compact . Then, gently remove the ring and garnish the beetroot and avocado tartare with untreated lemon zest and thyme leaves !
We recommend consuming the tartare immediately. You can prepare the beetroot and fresh spreadable cheese in advance, but we do not recommend storing the avocado pulp for long as it may oxidize. Freezing is not recommended!
If you like, you can also use raw beetroot. Choose a well-ripened and buttery Hass avocado; if it's not ripe enough, blend it with the suggested seasonings and a splash of cream to make it tastier and creamier.

