name:
Pasta with tomatoes and frisella
ingredients:
Vermicelli pasta: 11.25oz(320 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
Red Tropea onions: 2.1oz(60 g)
Friselle: 2.5oz(70 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Wild fennel: to taste
Wild fennel: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(100 g)
Ground pistachio: 3tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the pasta with tomatoes and frisella, wash the cherry tomatoes, then cut them in half. Clean the onion and slice it finely. In the mixer bowl, place the frisella cut into pieces
Flavors with the lemon zest and blend everything until you get crumbs .
Now prepare the fennel pesto: wash and dry the fennel, place it in a tall glass, add the chopped pistachios , a pinch of salt, and 7 oz of olive oil , then blend everything with an immersion blender until you get a creamy consistency .
Transfer the pesto to a small bowl and cover it with plastic wrap . Meanwhile, place a pot of salted water on the stove and bring it to a boil, it will be needed for cooking the pasta. Now prepare the sauce: pour a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the sliced onion , let it fry for a couple of minutes, then add the previously cut cherry tomatoes
Flavor with a handful of fennel , cover with the lid , and cook for a couple of minutes. Continue cooking the cherry tomatoes by removing the lid and mashing them with a wooden spoon and continue cooking for about eight minutes.
Meanwhile, cook the pasta for the time indicated on the package . Toast your frisella crumbs in a small pan with a drizzle of oil until they are slightly browned .
As soon as the pasta is cooked, drain it directly into the pan with the sauce , add a ladle of cooking water , and season with the fennel pesto prepared earlier
Mix to combine the seasoning and distribute the pasta on the plates, garnishing with the toasted frisella crumbs . The pasta with tomatoes and frisella is ready to be enjoyed .
The pasta with tomatoes and frisella can be stored for a maximum of one day in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap.
You can flavor the frisella crumbs with fresh oregano, basil, chopped dried tomato, and other aromatic herbs to taste.

