name:
Warm spelt with honey chicken
ingredients:
Pearled farro: 1cup(200 g)
Chicken breast: 0.9lb(400 g)
Wildflower honey: 0.3cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Basil: 1cup(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4 ¾tbsp(70 g)
Lemon peel: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To make the warm spelt with honey chicken, first bring a large pot of salted water to a boil, then add the spelt and cook it for the time indicated on the package. In the meantime, prepare the marinade for the chicken: place the chicken breast in a bowl, add the oil, honey , and thyme leaves , salt, and pepper to taste,
then turn the slices on both sides to ensure the meat is evenly flavored and set it aside for the moment. After the spelt cooking time has elapsed, drain it and transfer it to a large bowl, season with a drizzle of oil, mix , and let it cool slightly.
In the meantime, you can prepare the light pesto: in a tall, narrow container, combine the basil leaves, oil , grated lemon zest, salt, and pepper, then blend with an immersion blender until a smooth consistency is achieved.
Transfer the pesto to a small bowl , cover it with cling film in contact, and set it aside for the moment. Now heat a grill well, place the chicken breasts and cook them for about 4-5 minutes per side (cooking time may vary depending on the thickness of the slices), so that the surface caramelizes. Once grilled, transfer the chicken breast to a cutting board and cut it crosswise into slices, as if it were a tagliata .
At this point, you're ready to assemble the dish: add about 2 tablespoons of spelt to the base , place 3-4 slices of chicken , and season with a spoonful of light pesto . If desired, you can garnish the dish with a drizzle of oil, lemon zest, and a few flakes of Maldon salt, after which your warm spelt with honey chicken is ready to be served!
The spelt with honey chicken can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can enrich the light pesto with nuts of your choice or add a splash of lemon juice to the chicken marinade to enhance the flavor even more.

