name:
Stuffed Peppers Neapolitan Style
ingredients:
Red peppers: 1
Yellow peppers: 1
Bread: 0.55lb(250 g)
Gaeta olives: 3oz(80 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- to grate
Breadcrumbs: 0.3cup(40 g)
Salted capers: 4tsp(20 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: to taste
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 55 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make Neapolitan-style stuffed peppers, start by roasting the peppers over the stove flame using a flame spreader for at least 10 minutes each, turning them occasionally . If you don't have a flame spreader, you can roast the peppers in a very hot pan. Place the peppers in a baking dish , cover them with plastic wrap , and let them sit for at least 15 minutes before removing the skin.
In the meantime, prepare the filling: slice the bread , cut it into cubes, and pit the Gaeta olives using a pitting tool or a knife . In the blender cup, place the bread, basil leaves, and parsley ,
the Gaeta olives , and thoroughly desalinated capers . Add the whole peeled garlic clove
and finally add the egg . Blend everything until you get a smooth and compact mixture . Add some freshly ground pepper to taste. It won't be necessary to add extra salt to the mixture since the capers, olives, and bread are already quite salty.
Meanwhile, retrieve the peppers and remove the outer skin, which will come off easily . Cut off the top and remove the inner seeds .
Now oil a baking dish , place the peppers inside, and stuff them with the filling you prepared earlier . In a bowl, mix the grated Parmesan with the breadcrumbs
and sprinkle the mixture over the peppers , drizzle with olive oil , and flavor with freshly ground black pepper. Bake the peppers in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 35 minutes. Once cooked, they will be nicely golden on top . Let them cool slightly, then serve the Neapolitan-style stuffed peppers!
Store the Neapolitan-style stuffed peppers in the fridge and consume them within 4 days. Freezing cooked peppers and the same raw mixture is not recommended.
Neapolitan-style stuffed peppers are a versatile dish, as they can be filled in various ways: with ground meat, anchovies, fried eggplants, onions, cheese cubes, or salami. Additionally, the filling can be flavored with fresh mint and chili pepper. It's also possible to cook them on the stove, making sure to close the peppers with a couple of toothpicks so that the filling doesn't spill out.

