name:
Pita with sun-dried tomato hummus
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1cup(125 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Water: 0.6cup(150 g)- warm
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.1tbsp(15 g)
Malt: 0.25oz(6 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(3 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Water: to taste
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 5.5oz(150 g)
Precooked chickpeas: ½cup(100 g)
Tahini: 0.8tbsp(12 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Coriander: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 4
Fresh chili pepper: 1- red
Arugula: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 8 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 2 h and 40 min. of rising

instructions:
To make the pita with sun-dried tomato hummus, first prepare the dough for the pita: place the dry yeast in a small bowl (alternatively, you can use 9 grams of fresh yeast), add a little warm water and the malt (or sugar) , then mix well with a teaspoon to dissolve everything. Pour the remaining warm water into another container, add the salt
and the oil and mix well. Now sift the flour into a large bowl, add the water with the yeast and start kneading with your fingertips. Then, without stopping kneading, pour in the water with oil and salt in a thin stream and continue working until you get a well-blended dough.
At this point, transfer the dough to a work surface and shape it into a ball, which should have a nice smooth and elastic texture. Place the formed dough in an oiled bowl, cover with plastic wrap and let it rise in the oven off with the light on for about 2 hours or until it has doubled in size. After the rising time , transfer the dough to a lightly floured work surface and divide it into 4 portions each weighing about 3.5 oz. Shape each portion into a ball ,
then roll it out with a rolling pin until you get sheets about 8 inches in diameter, with a thickness of about 1/16 inch . Place the obtained sheets on a baking tray lined with parchment paper, brush them with an emulsion of oil and water , cover with plastic wrap and let them rise for at least 40 minutes, again in the oven off with the light on. For more information on preparing Pita , you can consult the recipe on our website.
In the meantime, you can prepare the sun-dried tomato hummus: place the sun-dried tomatoes in a tall, narrow container, add the chickpeas , the tahini , the coriander previously washed and dried ,
the oil and the pepper, then blend with an immersion blender until you get a smooth cream. Adjust the hummus with salt, then transfer it to a small bowl , cover with plastic wrap in contact, and store it in the refrigerator until use.
After the pita rising time, spray them with a little water and bake them in a preheated static oven at 482°F for 8 minutes on the middle shelf. Meanwhile, wash and finely chop the chili and cut the other sun-dried tomatoes into strips . When the pita is cooked , you can fill them with the ingredients you have prepared:
spread a generous amount of hummus on each pita , add a tuft of arugula, previously washed and dried, some sun-dried tomato strips, and a pinch of fresh chili : fold it in half and enjoy your pita with sun-dried tomato hummus immediately !
The pita can be stored at room temperature, in a plastic bag or under a glass dome, for up to 2 days, or it can be frozen after cooling. You can store the sun-dried tomato hummus in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap in contact, for up to 3 days.
You can replace the coriander with another herb of your choice or add grated garlic for an even bolder flavor!

