name:
Spaghetti with lemon pesto and clams
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
White wine: ¼cup(50 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Lemon peel: 1
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)
Peeled almonds: 2oz(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(100 g)
Mint: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 1-2 hours to purge the clams

instructions:
To prepare the spaghetti with lemon pesto and clams, start with the latter: let them soak in plenty of salted water for 1-2 hours , changing the water a couple of times to remove any sand residues . In the meantime, prepare the lemon pesto: use a vegetable peeler to take the zest from the lemon, being careful not to take the white part , then squeeze out the juice .
In a blender, combine the peeled almonds , the lemon zest , and the juice .
Flavor with grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese and a pinch of salt. Finally, pour in the olive oil and blend everything until you obtain a smooth sauce . Add fragrance with basil and mint leaves, and keep the lemon pesto chilled.
After soaking the clams, rinse them thoroughly and proceed with cooking: heat a tablespoon of olive oil in a pan with a clove of garlic and fresh chili pepper. Add the clams and, when the oil starts to sizzle, deglaze with white wine . Let the alcohol evaporate.
Cover with a lid and let the clams open over high heat; it will take about 5 minutes. Meanwhile, cook the spaghetti al dente in plenty of salted water . When the clams have opened , turn off the heat.
Drain them in a colander and collect their cooking water . Shell the clams , saving some whole for plating. Pour the clams' cooking water back into the same pan .
Drain the spaghetti al dente here and finish cooking them . Finally, add the clams and the lemon pesto .
Add fragrance with chopped parsley and ground pepper . Serve your spaghetti with lemon pesto and clams piping hot .
We recommend consuming the spaghetti with lemon pesto and clams immediately.
The lemon pesto can be stored in a well-covered container (preferably glass) in the fridge for 2 days. If you wish to keep the lemon pesto longer, you can easily freeze it. Simply divide it into small portions, for example, using the classic ice cube trays.
We recommend using only organic lemons, well washed, to safely use their zest. If you prefer, you can use linguine instead of spaghetti: they match perfectly with the sauce.

