name:
Stuffed and Fried Red Mullets
ingredients:
Red mullet: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (about 14)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)
Bread: 0.7oz(20 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 2- medium
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Sweet Paprika: 4 ½tsp(10 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the stuffed and fried red mullets, start by cleaning them: remove the head, cut open the belly, then remove the entrails under running water. Place the mullets on the cutting board and make a cut along the entire length , without completely dividing the fillets. Remove the central bone and open them like a book . Perform this operation for all the mullets and set them aside .
Prepare the filling: chop the aromatic herbs , then cut the bread into cubes, place it in a bowl and soak it in milk . Work it with a wooden spoon until it becomes completely soft.
To the soaked bread, subsequently add the chopped aromatic herbs , the grated pecorino cheese , and a grated clove of garlic .
Salt and pepper to taste and mix everything together : you should obtain a consistent paste .
Stuff each mullet with a teaspoon of filling and close it on itself without pressing too much . In a large bowl, pour the breadcrumbs, season with sweet paprika, and mix to obtain a homogeneous breading .
In another shallow and wide bowl, break the eggs and beat them, season with salt . Place a pan with plenty of seed oil on the stove and heat it to 338°F (preferably using a kitchen thermometer). Dip the mullets, one at a time, first in the beaten eggs and then in the breadcrumbs to coat them well on all sides.
Once ready, take a few at a time to fry them in the oil which has reached the temperature . When they are well golden, drain them with a slotted spoon and place them on paper for frying . Salt to taste. Your stuffed and fried red mullets are ready to be served .
It is recommended to consume the stuffed and fried red mullets immediately.
Want to try a baked version? Bake them in a preheated oven at 392°F for about 25 minutes. For a more flavorful filling, you can enrich it as you prefer, adding olives, capers, sun-dried tomatoes, wild fennel.

