name:
Pita with Eggplants and Chicken
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1cup(125 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Water: 0.67cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
Malt: 1tsp
Brewer's yeast: ¾tsp(3 g)
Chicken breast: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Paprika: 1tsp
Rosemary: to taste
Oregano: to taste- fresh
Extra virgin olive oil: 5spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Eggplant: 3.5oz(100 g)- long
Vegetable oil: to taste
Roma tomatoes: 1cup(200 g)
Spinach: 0.7cup(20 g)
Greek yogurt: 0.8cup(200 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Lemon juice: ½
Chives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the preparation time for the pita (2 h 40 min. of rising)

instructions:
To make the pita with eggplants and chicken, first prepare the dough following our Pita recipe using the ingredient quantities indicated above. During the second rising time of the pita, focus on preparing the meat: cut the chicken breast in half , then slice each half crosswise to obtain thinner slices and finally cut into strips about 0.5-1 inch wide .
Transfer the chicken strips to a bowl and season with 5 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil, salt , pepper, a teaspoon of paprika , and a few sprigs of fresh oregano and rosemary . Mix well so the meat is evenly flavored with the marinade, cover the bowl with plastic wrap, and set aside until it's time to cook.
Now you can make the yogurt sauce: pour the Greek yogurt into a small bowl, add the zest of one lemon and the juice of half , and some finely chopped chives . Mix well , cover with plastic wrap, and set aside for now.
At this point, wash the eggplant and cut it into thin slices . Heat the vegetable oil in a saucepan until it reaches 340°F, then fry a few slices at a time to prevent the oil temperature from dropping. When they are golden brown, it will take about 4-5 minutes, drain them with a slotted spoon and place them on a sheet of paper towel to remove excess oil . Salt to taste.
After the rising time of the pita, preheat the oven to 480°F in static mode and bake the pita for about 8 minutes. Meanwhile, cut the tomatoes into thin wedges and heat a grill over high heat: take the chicken strips from the marinade, place them on the hot grill , and grill them for about 3-4 minutes (depending on the thickness of the meat, check when it appears white inside) ; transfer the cooked strips to a plate and get ready to assemble your pita with all the prepared ingredients:
Remove the pita from the oven and fill them while still warm: spread a base of yogurt sauce, then add a few slices of fried eggplant , place some tomato wedges .
Finally, add the grilled chicken strips and some previously washed and dried baby spinach leaves : your pita with eggplants and chicken is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to eat the pita with eggplants and chicken immediately. Unfilled pita can be stored at room temperature, in a plastic bag or under a glass dome, for up to 2 days or they can be frozen once cooled.
Here are some suggestions to customize your pita with eggplants and chicken: sun-dried tomatoes instead of fresh tomatoes, Hummus as an alternative to yogurt cream, beef strips instead of chicken, or seitan for those looking for a vegetarian alternative!

