name:
Upside-down raspberry cakes
ingredients:
Raspberries: 2cups(250 g)
Almond flour: 0.67cup(65 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(145 g)
Butter: 9 ½tbsp(135 g)- softened
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)
Egg yolks: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Sugar: ½cup(110 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the upside-down raspberry cakes, place the soft butter in pieces and the sugar in a stand mixer fitted with whisks . Work the two ingredients at medium speed until the mixture is creamy . Gradually and while keeping the mixer running, add the whole egg first and then the yolk.
Let the eggs incorporate well and work everything at medium speed until the mixture is smooth and creamy . With the mixer off, add the flour and almond flour all at once and continue working everything at medium speed .
Once the flours are well incorporated, turn off the mixer and transfer the frangipane mixture obtained into a disposable piping bag . Grease 4 molds with a diameter of 3.5 inches with butter
and cover the bottom with fresh raspberries, previously washed gently and delicately patted dry . Once the raspberry layer is arranged in each mold, pour the frangipane mixture over them , filling the four molds well .
Level the surface with the back of a spoon or a spatula and place them on a baking tray . Then bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 30/35 minutes. Once ready, take them out of the oven and let your upside-down raspberry cakes cool down.
Before unmolding them, help yourself with a smooth-bladed knife, with which you can gently score the inner perimeter of the molds : once turned over onto the serving plate , the upside-down raspberry cakes will release easily . You can serve the upside-down raspberry cakes with a scoop of fiordilatte or vanilla ice cream, for example!
Store your upside-down raspberry cakes in the fridge, in an airtight container, and consume them within 1-2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
Serve your upside-down raspberry cakes with a scoop of vanilla ice cream and, if you like, dust the surface of the cakes with muscovado sugar before baking. Once baked and turned over, you can garnish them with chopped mint leaves!

