name:
Soft and Quick Three-Carrot Muffins
ingredients:
Carrots: 1cup(100 g)
Purple carrots: 3.5oz(100 g)
Yellow carrots: 3.5oz(100 g)
Carnaroli rice: 0.875cup(200 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Leeks: 0.8cup(70 g)
Curry: 2 ⅛tsp(10 g)
Lemon peel: to taste
Mint: 6leaves
Butter: 2tbsp(25 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Tomini cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Whole milk: 0.1cup(20 g)
Soybean sprouts: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the three-carrot muffins, first start by making the Vegetable broth that will be used for cooking the rice. Once cooked, keep it warm and proceed to peel the yellow carrot , the purple one , and the more common orange one .
Then use a knife to trim them and slice long pieces that are 2-3 mm thick using a mandoline (5-6).
At this point, remove the outer leaves of the leek and cut it into rings . Transfer it to a pot where you have already poured a drizzle of oil and let it wilt for a few minutes. Then add the rice and let it toast, stirring occasionally.
Then pour in some broth to cover the rice , season with salt , and continue cooking, adding more broth only as needed. Meanwhile, as the rice cooks, grease 6 aluminum molds
As soon as the rice is cooked, turn off the heat, add the curry , and stir . Then add the butter in pieces
the Parmesan cheese , mint leaves, and lemon zest . Stir the risotto and set aside. Then cut the 100 g of tomini, which will be used for the muffin filling, into cubes .
At this point, place a couple of slices of purple carrot at the base of the mold, then lay a couple of slices of orange carrot in the opposite direction . Lastly, place the yellow carrots around. Then fill halfway with rice
Place some tomino cubes inside , cover with more rice to fill the mold completely . Level the surface and using scissors, trim the carrots sticking out of the mold .
Repeat the same operation for the others and place them on a baking sheet . Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 15 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the tomino fondue. First, cut them into cubes; then pour cream and milk into a saucepan and bring to a boil. Then turn off the heat and add the cheese ;
stir with a whisk until the cheese is melted and the fondue is thickened . At this point, the muffins will also be cooked, so you can take them out of the oven .
Carefully unmold the three-carrot muffins and transfer them one by one to a serving plate (31-32), accompany them with the tomino fondue, and garnish with mixed sprouts .
The three-carrot muffins can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 1-2 days.
The fondue can also be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days; just heat it to return to its initial consistency.
Enrich each muffin with speck cubes or vegetables of your choice!

