name:
Double cheeseburger
ingredients:
Pork: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (beef shoulder) minced
Cheddar cheese: 8slices
Carrots: 0.9cup(100 g)
Cabbage: 3 ½cups(100 g)
Mayonnaise: 2spoonfuls
Ketchup: 1spoonful
Worcestershire sauce: to taste
Cluster tomatoes: 2
Jalapeno peppers: 8slices- pickled
Spinach: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 12 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the double cheeseburger, start with the coleslaw: take the cabbage, wash it and remove the central part , then use a mandoline to cut it into thin strips . Peel the carrots, trim them, then grate them with a coarse grater .
In a bowl, pour two tablespoons of mayonnaise and one of ketchup, add the cabbage and carrots. Season with some Worcestershire sauce and a dash of pepper, mix and set aside.
Now take the ground beef: divide it by hand, work each of the 8 balls you will get for a few moments, so the patties don't fall apart during cooking: then form each piece into a burger, place it in a small bowl and place a sheet of parchment paper on top with which you can press it down to a thickness of 0.79 inches (2 cm). Lightly oil a large non-stick pan with oil and heat well.
Season the first two patties on one side with salt and pepper, then place them in the hot pan on the seasoned side and season the other side with salt and pepper as well ; cook without touching them for about 4 minutes over medium-high heat to form a nice crust on the outside. After about 4 minutes of cooking, flip the burgers , wait a couple of minutes, and place a slice of cheddar on each .
At this point, lower the heat and cover with a lid . As soon as you see the cheddar melt, remove the lid and stack one burger on top of the other . You can also briefly heat the two halves of the burger bun in the same pan. Turn off the heat and assemble your double cheeseburger: bun base, cabbage and carrot salad, and the two patties .
Finish with two slices of pickled jalapeno peppers, a few leaves of fresh baby spinach , and a couple of slices of tomato. Close with the other half of the bun and serve your double cheeseburger hot !
It is recommended to consume the double cheeseburger immediately. Storage is not advised.
Season with arugula instead of baby spinach or caramelized onion instead of jalapeno peppers. Add pork sausage to the ground beef for an even juicier burger. And make sure to press the meat patty well before placing it in the hot pan so the juices don't escape!

