name:
Pasta with Cuttlefish
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Octopi: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (cleaned)
Cherry tomatoes: 2cups(300 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
White wine: 3.5oz(100 g)
Parsley: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: 2
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare pasta with cuttlefish, start by washing and halving the cherry tomatoes . Then chop the parsley after washing and drying it . Next, handle the cuttlefish: we used pre-cleaned cuttlefish, if you have whole cuttlefish to clean, you can follow the instructions on our guide: How to clean cuttlefish . Once cleaned, slice the cuttlefish into rings .
In a large pan, heat a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil, add the crushed garlic and two chili peppers . Sauté until the garlic is golden, then add the cuttlefish and cook them for 3-4 minutes. Deglaze with the white wine and let it evaporate. Meanwhile, bring a pot full of water to a boil, which will be used for cooking the pasta.
Add the halved cherry tomatoes , adjust with salt and pepper .
Pour a ladle of water , cover with a lid , and continue cooking for about 15 minutes, until the cherry tomatoes have released part of their juice. In the meantime, cook the paccheri al dente in abundant salted water .
After this time, the sauce will be ready , remove the garlic clove and the chili peppers , then drain the paccheri directly into the pan .
Mix well to combine the flavors, adding a little cooking water if necessary for more creaminess. Complete with fresh chopped parsley , mix again, and serve the pasta with cuttlefish hot .
It is recommended to consume the pasta with cuttlefish immediately.

To make your pasta with cuttlefish even more fragrant, you can add a grated zest of organic lemon at the end of cooking: it will give the dish a fresh, citrus note that perfectly complements the sea flavor. If you prefer a more intense touch, you can replace the parsley with a mix of fresh herbs like basil and mint.

