name:
Cold Vegetable Soup
ingredients:
Small egg bow tie pasta: 1cup(200 g)
Zucchini flowers: 7cups(140 g)
Green beans: 3.2oz(90 g)
Carrots: 3
Potatoes: 1- small
Cluster tomatoes: 1
Fresh scallion: 1
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Lemon peel: to taste
Oregano: to taste- fresh
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the cold vegetable soup, start with the prep work: peel and trim the carrots, then cut them into strips and dice them . Wash and trim the green beans and cut them into slices .
Wash the green onion, remove the root, and slice it lengthwise, using the lighter part . Wash the tomato, remove the green part, and slice it , then halve each slice and cut into quarters .
Wash and peel the potatoes, halve them, cut into sticks , and finally dice them . Lastly, gently wash the squash blossoms, remove the internal pistil, and chop them roughly .
Now place all the vegetables in a large saucepan and cover them with one quart of water , add a bay leaf and a whole piece of lemon peel , then salt, pepper, and let cook on low heat for about 25 minutes.
After this time, add the egg pasta directly into the pot , stir well , and cook for another 3 minutes, then turn off the heat, remove the bay leaf and lemon peel .
Add the fresh oregano and let everything cool in the pot so the pasta can continue cooking with the heat of the soup. Once lukewarm, transfer the soup to the plates and season with a drizzle of raw olive oil and a grind of black pepper: your cold vegetable soup is ready to be served !
The cold vegetable soup can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days. If you used fresh ingredients, you can freeze the vegetable soup without the pasta.
The cold vegetable soup will also be excellent served hot, of course! To give the dish an ethnic touch, just add a bit of fresh chopped cilantro at the end. If you want a heartier version, you could prepare some meatballs to add to the vegetables... the cooking times will remain the same!

