name:
Sweet Panzanella
ingredients:
Brioche bread: 5.3oz(150 g)
Nectarines: 1
Apricots: 2
Plums: 1
Strawberries: 1 ¼cup(180 g)
Cherries: 1cup(150 g)
Blueberries: ¾cup(100 g)
Cooked figs: 3spoonfuls
Mint: to taste
Fleur de sel: to taste
Wildflower honey: 1spoonful
Whole peeled hazelnuts: ½cup(65 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make sweet panzanella, first cut the brioche bread into cubes of approximately 1.5 cm (about 0.6 inches) and roughly chop the hazelnuts . Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and spread the brioche cubes and chopped hazelnuts on top .
Drizzle everything with a tablespoon of honey and toast in a preheated oven at 392°F for 10 minutes. When the bread is golden and toasted, remove the baking sheet from the oven and let it cool. Meanwhile, wash and dry the fruit, cut the peach in half
remove the pit and dice it . Do the same with the apricots (8-9)
Continue with the plum, slicing it . Remove the leaves from the strawberries and cut them in half .
Finally, cut the cherries in half and pit them . Now everything is ready to assemble the sweet panzanella: in a large bowl, add all the chopped fruit, including whole blueberries ,
drizzle with fig syrup . Add the toasted bread with hazelnuts , fragrant with mint leaves, and season with a pinch of fleur de sel. Mix everything with a spoon and serve your sweet panzanella accompanied by sour cream, ice cream, or yogurt, if desired.
It is best to consume the panzanella immediately. It can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day, but it will lose its crunchiness.
With the summer heat, the honey should already be fluid enough to easily drizzle over the brioche bread, but if your pantry is cool, heat it for a few seconds in the microwave before using it!
If you want to make the panzanella vegan, replace the honey with a tablespoon of brown sugar.
The brioche bread can be replaced with a stale loaf; in this case, it is recommended to season it a bit more generously.
If you can't find fig syrup, you can substitute it with cooked wine must, fruit syrup of your choice, or balsamic vinegar.

