name:
Pasta with agretti and ricotta
ingredients:
Gluten-free Fusilli pasta: 3cups(320 g)
Friar's beard (agretti): 2cups(200 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ½cup(100 g)
Fresh scallion: 2oz(60 g)
Almond slices: 3tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To make pasta with agretti and ricotta, first wash the agretti under running water , then cut them in half and set them aside. Peel the garlic and slice it finely .
Clean the spring onion by removing the ends and the outer layer ; then slice it . Place a pot full of water on the heat and bring it to a boil with salt: this will be used to cook the pasta later. In a large pan, heat the olive oil, add the garlic along with the whole chili pepper .
then add the sliced spring onion . Sauté gently for about 5 minutes, then add the agretti , and pour in a ladle of pasta cooking water .
Salt to taste and cook for about 10 minutes over moderate heat. Meanwhile, place the sliced almonds in a hot non-stick pan and toast them for a few minutes, stirring the pan often, until they are lightly golden .
In the meantime, cook the pasta in boiling water so that it's al dente (refer to the cooking time on the package and drain it a couple of minutes earlier). By now, the agretti should be cooked; remove the chili pepper and add the ricotta and mix.
Once the pasta is cooked, drain it directly into the pan with the sauce , stir to flavor, and transfer to plates. Garnish with the toasted almonds and serve the pasta with agretti and ricotta immediately .
Consume the pasta with agretti and ricotta immediately. It is not recommended to store it after cooking.
Want to give a fancy touch to the pasta with agretti and ricotta? Just add some Cherry Tomatoes Confit . If you have any leftover agretti, you can boil them and blend with Parmesan, oil, salt, and pepper to create a quick pesto to use as a pasta dressing.

