name:
Pasta with baby spinach and pepper pesto
ingredients:
Whole wheat Spaghetti pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Spinach: 2 ½cups(70 g)
Yellow peppers: 3cups(450 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)
Pine nuts: 5tbsp(40 g)
Salted ricotta cheese: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 8.9tbsp(120 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Oregano: to taste- fresh

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the pasta with baby spinach and pepper pesto, first take care of the peppers: wash and dry them, then place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake them at 450°F for 40 minutes (this way you can peel them more easily). Meanwhile, place a pot full of salted water on the heat and bring it to a boil, it will be used for cooking the pasta. Now focus on the pesto: in the bowl of a mixer, place the baby spinach leaves, add the pecorino , the pine nuts
salt and pepper to taste, and pour the extra virgin olive oil . Blend everything to obtain a homogeneous sauce that you will set aside.
Once the peppers are ready, remove them from the oven , transfer them while still hot to a baking dish, and cover with plastic wrap . Let cool at room temperature. As soon as the peppers are warm, remove the plastic wrap .
and remove the outer skin of the peppers . At this point, you can boil the spaghetti for about 8 minutes or according to the time indicated on the package . While the pasta is cooking, cut the peeled peppers into strips .
Pour the baby spinach pesto into a pan with the heat off , once the spaghetti is al dente, drain them directly into the pan with the pesto (set aside a little pasta cooking water) . Stir and add a little cooking water if necessary to make the pasta creamy. Also add the peppers always off the heat.
Finally, season with grated salted ricotta flakes and fresh oregano leaves . Mix and serve the pasta with baby spinach and pepper pesto immediately !
We recommend consuming the pasta with baby spinach and pepper pesto immediately. It is possible to store the baby spinach pesto in a jar for 2 days in the fridge, covered with oil or freeze it in a small jar. The roasted peppers can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for a couple of days.
You can enrich the recipe for pasta with baby spinach and pepper pesto by adding cherry tomatoes raw at the end of the recipe, before the salted ricotta!

