name:
Cake with fresh apricots
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Potato starch: ⅓cup(45 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Baking powder: 0.9tsp(4 g)
Butter: 6tbsp(85 g)
Eggs: 2
Natural plain yogurt: 1.5oz(40 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Whole milk: 2 ⅛cups(500 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Rice flour: 3 ¾tbsp(30 g)
Apricots: 3
Water: 0.8cup(200 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Gelatine: 0.5oz(13 g)- cake mix
Water: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: 3spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note 1 night of maceration of the apricots

instructions:
To prepare the cake with fresh apricots, first start by preparing the syrup in which you will let the apricots macerate overnight. Pour the water into a saucepan, add the sugar and heat everything on the stove until the sugar is completely dissolved . At this point, transfer the syrup into a baking dish .
Wash the apricots, dry them, cut them in half, and remove the pit . At this point, place them in the syrup with the cut side down and cover everything with plastic wrap . Place in the refrigerator and let them macerate overnight.
At this point, start preparing the cake base . Place the eggs in the bowl of a stand mixer, add the sugar and whisk at medium speed until they are light and well-whipped . Meanwhile, melt the butter and let it cool slightly.
Then turn off the machine and sift the dry ingredients into the eggs: first the flour , then the potato starch , and finally the baking powder .
Incorporate them by folding with a spatula from bottom to top ; then also add the now-cooled melted butter and the yogurt .
Add the grated lemon zest and mix again with a spatula until the mixture is uniform . Then place a 10x7 inch rectangular pastry ring on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and pour the batter inside, leveling the surface with the spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for about 20 minutes, on the lower shelf.
Meanwhile, prepare the milk cream. First, pour the milk into a saucepan and heat it . In another small bowl, mix together sugar and rice flour and when the milk is about to boil, pour it into the bowl while quickly stirring with a whisk .
As soon as you obtain a smooth mixture without lumps , transfer it back into the saucepan and cook, stirring with a whisk, until it thickens . Then transfer the milk cream into a wide, shallow dish and cover with plastic wrap in contact .
Once the cake is baked (always do the toothpick test to check the baking), take it out of the oven and let it cool. Then transfer it to a cutting board and remove the mold . At this point, trim the cake using a serrated knife, removing the outer crust, both on the edges
and on the surface . Now transfer the cake back into the mold, placed on a tray lined with parchment paper. Pour the cream over the cake and spread it evenly across the surface using a spatula .
Retrieve the apricots and peel them gently with your hands and place them on the cake, spacing them apart . Now prepare the jelly: pour the water into a saucepan, add the sugar and the jelly mix, then turn on the heat and bring everything to a boil, stirring quickly until it is completely dissolved .
Let the jelly cool slightly and use it to brush the apricots . Let the dessert cool completely in the refrigerator, then remove the mold and using a smooth-bladed knife, cut the cake
into 6 squares . Place them on a serving plate and decorate with grated dark chocolate .
Store the cake in the refrigerator and consume it within a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of apricots, you can use canned peaches. In this case, make the jelly using their syrup. Alternatively, you can also use jam thinned with some water to brush over the cake.

