name:
Apricot Chutney
ingredients:
Apricots: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Whole cane sugar: 1.3cups(250 g)
Red spring onions: 5.3oz(150 g)
Rice vinegar: 3 ⅓tbsp(50 g)
Jalapeno peppers: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 26
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make apricot chutney, wash the apricots well , then dry them, cut them in half , and remove the pit. Collect the pitted apricots in a bowl and set aside.
Clean the spring onion and slice it . Remove the stem from the chili pepper , cut it in half lengthwise ,
remove the seeds with a knife and chop it . In a large pot, pour in the apricots, spring onion, chili pepper ,
rice vinegar , and finally the brown sugar . Cover with a lid and cook on high heat until it comes to a boil; at that point, lower the heat and continue cooking for about 1 hour or until the mixture reaches 226°F.
The chutney is ready : if you want to consume it immediately, you can let it cool and pour it into jars (14-15), if instead you want to store it longer, transfer it while still hot into previously sanitized jars, fill the containers up to .5-.75 inches from the edge, close with lids, invert the jars, and let cool.
The chutney keeps in the refrigerator for up to a week. If you decide to vacuum seal it, you can store it longer.
The chutney can be paired with aged cheeses with a strong flavor. When the season is cooler, it will be perfect served with meat stews like lamb or beef.
The homemade preparation of preserves and jams can pose health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures can guarantee to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to strictly follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it must always be kept in mind that the same food safety as professionally produced preserves and jams can never be achieved. For correct preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

