name:
Lemon bars
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2.8cups(350 g)
Butter: ¾cup(200 g)- cold
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 2.1oz(60 g)- (1 medium)
Lemons: 4- untreated
Eggs: 12.7oz(360 g)- (about 6 medium)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Butter: 0.9cup(200 g)
Cornstarch: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the resting of the shortcrust and the cooling of the cream

instructions:
To prepare the lemon bars, start with the preparation of the base: in a bowl, pour the all-purpose flour, then the cold butter from the fridge cut into pieces ; then mix with your hands, crumbling everything well and quickly . Add the sugar to the mixture obtained
and also add the egg , continue to work the dough with your hands until all the ingredients are well mixed and the dough is smooth and homogeneous. Transfer the dough to the work surface, sprinkle with a tiny bit of flour, and form a ball
to wrap in plastic wrap ; let it rest in the fridge for at least half an hour. In the meantime, prepare the cream: in a saucepan, melt the butter over very low heat (8-9), then let it cool slightly.
Separately, pour the 6 eggs into a bowl along with the sugar and work everything with a whisk ; then add the now cooled butter
and mix thoroughly again . Then grate the zest of 4 lemons and squeeze 120 ml (around 1/2 cup) of juice, filtering it before adding it to the mixture .
Add the grated zest as well . Transfer the mixture obtained into the saucepan where you melted the butter and cook everything over low heat, stirring with a spatula . Be careful not to let the cream simmer, keeping it always on low heat and cooking it until it begins to thicken; at that point, you can add the cornstarch .
Incorporate the cornstarch with a whisk to avoid lumps . Continue to cook over low heat until you have obtained a sufficiently thick cream (cooking the cream will take about 10 minutes in total). Transfer the cream obtained into a wide and shallow bowl , cover it with contact plastic wrap, and let it cool well in the fridge before use .
Once the resting time of the shortcrust has passed, take it out of the fridge. Place a sheet of parchment paper and a 10x7 inch (approx.) bottomless rectangular mold on a baking tray . Roll out the shortcrust with a floured rolling pin until reaching a thickness of about 0.2 inches .
Lay the shortcrust on the base of the mold, removing any excess . Prick the surface of the shortcrust with a fork and bake it in a preheated static oven at 350°F (175°C) for 20 minutes. Once cooked, take it out and let it cool slightly without removing it from the mold. Take the cooled cream
and spread it evenly over the entire surface (28-29), then level it with the back of a spoon or spatula. Bake the dessert in a preheated static oven at 350°F (175°C) and cook for about 30 minutes. Once ready, take your dessert out of the oven and let it cool completely before removing the mold .
With a smooth-bladed knife, divide the rectangle in half , then cut the two obtained rectangles in half again in the same direction, then make three sections in the other direction to obtain 12 lemon bars (the size may vary according to your preferences). Before serving, you can sprinkle with powdered sugar !
You can keep the lemon bars for about 3 days, well covered in the refrigerator. Freezing is not recommended.
The shortcrust, however, can be frozen for about 3 weeks wrapped in plastic wrap.
Grapefruit, orange, lime bars: you can also make mixes to create a different dessert every time!

