name:
Saffron Rice Pudding
ingredients:
Vialone nano rice: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Almond milk: 6.3cups(1.5 l)- (unsweetened raw almond milk)
Saffron threads: 0.1tsp(0.3 g)
Sugar: ½cup(85 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Fennel seeds: 1spoonful
Fine salt: to taste
Almond slices: ¼cup(20 g)
Saffron threads: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the saffron rice pudding, start with the infusion. Slit the vanilla pod and scrape out the seeds . Then move to the stove and pour the almond milk into a pot . Next, add the fennel seeds ,
the pod and its seeds and let it all heat and infuse for 10 minutes over low heat, without it ever reaching a boil. At this point, strain the liquid using a fine-mesh sieve , this way you will be able to discard the fennel and vanilla pod.
Pour the sugar into the milk , increase the temperature until it almost reaches a boil while stirring with a spatula to dissolve the sugar . Add the rice
and cook for 25 minutes, stirring occasionally over medium heat , the mixture should never reach a boil, otherwise the liquid will evaporate too quickly. Once the indicated time has passed, add the saffron threads , keeping some for decoration, and continue to stir occasionally, allowing it to cook for another 25 minutes. In total, the rice pudding will cook in about 50 minutes: at the end of cooking, it should be soft and creamy, roughly like a pudding .
In the meantime, pour the almond flakes into a pan and toast them over high heat , tossing frequently to prevent burning. Divide the mixture into 6 glasses with a capacity of 2/3 cup each .
Then garnish the glasses with the toasted almond flakes and a few saffron threads . Your saffron rice pudding glasses are ready, all that’s left is to enjoy them !
The saffron rice pudding can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended to preserve its texture.
Make sure not to use sweetened almond milk, otherwise, your saffron rice pudding might be overly sweet. Alternatively, try significantly reducing the amount of sugar, you can always add more if needed. To add a touch of extra creaminess, you can add a knob of butter at the end of cooking or, for a lactose-free version, some margarine.

