name:
Baked Sole Rolls
ingredients:
Sole: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (in fillets)
Marjoram: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(100 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 0.7oz(20 g)
Anchovies in oil: 0.5oz(15 g)
Salted capers: 1 ½tsp(8 g)- to be desalted
Garlic: 1clove
Lemon peel: to taste
Fine salt: 1tsp(0.3 g)
Black pepper: to taste
New potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: ¾cup(50 g)
Garlic: ½clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.4oz(100 ml)
Lemon juice: 1.3tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the baked sole rolls, wash the new potatoes well and, if they are small, cut them in half ; if they are slightly larger, divide them into four wedges . Transfer them onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Season them with extra virgin olive oil , salt, and pepper , and mix well . Then, bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 20 minutes.
In the meantime, place the peeled garlic clove, sun-dried tomatoes , anchovy fillets , and desalted capers on a cutting board. Finely chop everything with a knife .
Transfer to a bowl and add the breadcrumbs . Also add the grated lemon zest , adjust the salt and pepper, then mix well until you obtain an aromatic and homogeneous mixture .
Lay out the sole fillets on a work surface and spread a bit of the breadcrumb mixture on each one . Add a drizzle of oil . Roll the fillets gently, one at a time , to form small rolls, trying to keep them compact.
After 20 minutes of cooking the potatoes, remove the baking sheet from the oven and place the sole rolls in it. Add a drizzle of oil and bake for another 10 minutes. Meanwhile, if you have leftover flavored breadcrumb mixture, toast it in a pan over medium heat until it becomes crispy and golden : this will be an extra touch to add to the final dish.
Prepare the green sauce: place the parsley, garlic, extra virgin olive oil , juice of half a lemon , a pinch of salt , and a grind of pepper into a blender cup.
Blend until you obtain a smooth and fragrant sauce , adding a bit of water if necessary to adjust the consistency. Once the fish is ready, take it out and cut the rolls in half .
Serve the sole rolls hot, accompanied by roasted new potatoes . Complete with a few spoons of green sauce , toasted bread for a crunchy note, and a few fresh marjoram leaves for garnish .
The sole rolls can be stored in the refrigerator for about 1 day, closed in an airtight container. The green sauce can be stored separately in an airtight jar in the refrigerator and consumed within 3–4 days.
The fish is cooked when it flakes easily with a fork. If desired, add a mix of fresh herbs (like thyme, marjoram, or chives) to the flavored bread, or a pinch of crushed red pepper for a more intense hint.

