name:
Pizza sea and garden
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 2.4cups(300 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)- (at room temperature)
Fine salt: 1.7tsp(10 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1 ½tsp(5 g)
Tuna in oil: 10.6oz(300 g)- drained
Tomato purée: 1.3cups(300 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 10oz(280 g)
Zucchini flowers: 2.5oz(70 g)
Burrata cheese: 11.5oz(325 g)
Salted capers: 3tbsp(50 g)- (to be desalted)
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus the rising time (about 2 and a half hours)

instructions:
To prepare the sea and garden pizza, start with the pizza dough: pour room temperature water into a pitcher and dissolve it well (1-2). Pour the bread flour and all-purpose flour into a bowl
Add the water, in which you dissolved the yeast, a little at a time and knead with your hands . When you have poured half of the liquid, you can also add the salt
and continue kneading, pouring the water always a little at a time: knead to obtain a homogeneous mixture . You can then add the oil, always a little at a time while continuing to knead . Then transfer the dough onto a lightly oiled work surface and knead it
until it is smooth and homogeneous . Let it rest on the work surface for about ten minutes, covered with the inverted bowl. Once rested, give it folds: imagine the dough ball is divided into 4 parts, take the end of each, gently pull it, and fold it toward the center, finally form it into a sphere again and transfer it into the bowl to rise covered with plastic wrap, in an oven turned off with the light on (78-82°F is the ideal constant rising temperature) . Every dough, temperature, and weather condition are factors that influence rising: on average, the dough should take 2 hours to double in volume.
When the dough has doubled in volume , remove the plastic wrap, then transfer it to the lightly oiled work surface and divide it with a scraper into 2 parts ;
You'll get 2 pieces to which you give folds as you did before rising; then flip them over and proceed with rounding, which means forming a spherical shape for both pieces, rotating the dough on the work surface between your palms. Transfer the doughs to a tray and let them rest for another half hour , covered with plastic wrap or a cloth. Once the last resting phase is over, take care of the seasoning: wash and halve the cherry tomatoes; gently clean the zucchini flowers and remove the inner part. Desalt the capers by rinsing them under fresh running water and drain the tuna in oil. Oil 2 pans of 11 inches in diameter , then spread one of the dough spheres inside, stretching it well with your fingers ;
once the dough is well stretched on each pan , preheat the static oven to 482°F, season the tomato sauce with extra virgin olive oil and salt and season each pizza with it; spread the tomato well, leaving a couple of centimeters from the edge, then take the burrata and empty it, take the "outer" more consistent part and place it on the pizza ; bake the pizza for about 5 minutes in the preheated static oven at the indicated temperature.
Take the pizza out and distribute the desalted capers and a little more than half of the halved cherry tomatoes . Bake the pizzas for another 10 minutes. Then take it out of the oven and add the creamy part of the burrata
the halved zucchini flowers , the remaining cherry tomatoes cut in half, a few more zucchini flowers, the drained chunks of tuna in oil . Complete the sea and garden pizza with fresh basil leaves and if you like, a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil and bake the other one.
Store the sea and garden pizza for up to 1 day in the refrigerator, well covered.
Once the pizza dough has risen, it should be baked or stored, but reducing the yeast amount: cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it mature in the refrigerator for 8-12 hours. After this time, it will be enough to let the dough acclimate and then proceed as per the recipe. Once risen, the pizza dough can also be frozen, preferably already divided into portions, and stored in a freezer bag. Afterwards, it will be enough to let your portion thaw at room temperature and continue as per the recipe. If you prefer, you can also freeze the semi-cooked sea and garden pizza: just perform half the cooking time, let it cool, and finally freeze it covered with aluminum foil; later you just need to cook it, still frozen, at a slightly lower temperature.
What other land and sea ingredients go well with this pizza? You can add raw arugula, untreated lemon zest, olives of your desired quality, and replace fresh cherry tomatoes with sun-dried tomatoes!

