name:
Friggitelli ripieni
ingredients:
Friggitelli (chili peppers): 8.8oz(250 g)- 8 long
Beef: 6.3oz(180 g)- ground
Red Tropea onions: 1.2oz(35 g)
Sardinian camone tomato: 2oz(60 g)- (about 1)
Smoked scamorza cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Stale bread: 0.7cup(40 g)- crumb only
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Eggs: 1
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3oz(20 g)- to grate
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(60 g)
Mint: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the stuffed friggitelli, start by preparing the filling ingredients: peel and finely chop the onion , also chop the fresh mint leaves . Wash the tomatoes and cut them into small cubes of about 1 cm .
Slice the smoked scamorza cheese and then cut it into cubes the size of the tomatoes . Put the stale bread crumbs in a bowl and cover them with milk to soak . Pour the minced meat into a large bowl, add the soaked bread crumbs along with the milk
Add all the other ingredients: the grated Parmesan cheese , flavor the filling with the chopped mint and season it with the red onion .
Continue by adding the diced tomatoes , the scamorza cheese , and the breadcrumbs .
Finally, add the whole egg , salt, pepper, and mix the mixture to obtain a homogeneous and well-compacted dough. If it turns out too soft, add some breadcrumbs; if too hard, you can add a bit of milk. Transfer the mixture to a disposable piping bag . Meanwhile, wash the friggitelli, dry them, and cut off the cap with the stem
Remove the internal seeds , and stuff the friggitelli by squeezing the filling with the piping bag up to the edge .
Place the stuffed friggitelli on a baking tray lined with parchment paper, drizzle with olive oil , and salt . Bake them in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C) for 30 minutes. Once cooked, take the stuffed friggitelli out of the oven and let them cool slightly before serving!
Freezing the filling or the stuffed friggitelli, whether cooked or raw, is not recommended. Store in the fridge after cooking and consume within 3 days.
Enrich your filling as you prefer: add half a teaspoon of turmeric to color it, replace the scamorza with provolone and mozzarella (making sure to drain it well). If you have some filling left over, no worries! You can make delicious little meatballs to serve as a tasty appetizer!

