name:
Peach Pie
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4 ½cups(550 g)
Butter: 1.1cups(250 g)- cold
Water: (80 g)
Brown sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Fine salt: 1 ½tsp(9 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Potato starch: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Yellow peaches: 1.2lbs(560 g)- (approximately 4)
Brown sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + resting time for the dough (1 h) and the cream (30 min.)

instructions:
To make the peach pie, first prepare the dough: in a bowl, combine the cold butter cubes with the flour and proceed with the sablage, which means crumbling the mixture with your hands until you obtain a sandy consistency, then add the brown sugar and salt and work it further with your hands.
Now pour the cold water in gradually and continue kneading until the mixture is well combined, then transfer it to the work surface and form a ball . Divide the dough in half to make 2 pieces of about 1 lb each, wrap them in plastic wrap , and place them in the refrigerator to rest for about an hour.
While the dough is resting, you can start on the cream: pour the milk into a saucepan and bring it to just below boiling; meanwhile, place the yolks in a separate bowl, add the sugar and cornstarch , and mix well to combine everything.
When the milk has reached just below boiling, pour it into the bowl with the egg mixture , mix well , then transfer everything back into the saucepan and let the cream thicken over low heat, stirring continuously, until you have a rather fluid and not overly compact consistency .
Transfer the cream into a wide, shallow container, cover with plastic wrap in contact with the surface , let it cool, and put it in the fridge to chill for at least 30 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the peaches for the filling, wash them, and cut them in half, remove the pit and peel them with a paring knife , then set them aside for the moment.
After the dough has rested, butter a cake pan with a base diameter of 9 inches and a top diameter of 10 inches . Take the 2 dough pieces from the refrigerator and roll them out with a rolling pin on a lightly floured work surface to a thickness of 1/6 inch. Line the base of the cake pan with one of the sheets, ensuring the edges are well covered, then trim any excess dough .
Now transfer the cream, which should be cooled by now, into a piping bag and distribute nearly all of it on the bottom of the pie, creating a thick and even layer . Place the peaches cut side down and sprinkle them with a tablespoon of brown sugar .
Fill the remaining spaces with the leftover cream, then place the second dough sheet over the pie and gently press with your fingers to adhere it to both the edges and the peaches, so that the shape of the peaches is visible from the outside. Remove excess dough with a knife , then seal the edges by pressing with your fingers and finish them with the tines of a fork .
Finally, prick the surface of the pie to prevent it from puffing up during baking , and bake in a preheated oven at 350°F for about 40 minutes on the lower rack. After this time, increase the temperature to 400°F, sprinkle the surface of the pie with a tablespoon of brown sugar , and bake again for another 25 minutes, this time on the middle rack. Once cooked , allow the peach pie to cool slightly and serve it with a scoop of ice cream!
The peach pie can be stored in the fridge for up to 4 days. The dough can be frozen raw.
If during the custard preparation the mixture seems too lumpy, don’t worry: just remove the saucepan from the heat and continue stirring vigorously with a spatula or wooden spoon until the lumps disappear. When peaches are out of season, you can use canned ones!

