name:
Seitan burger
ingredients:
Hamburger muffins: 4
Seitan: 14.1oz(400 g)
Precooked chickpeas: ½cup(100 g)
Sweet potatoes (or yams): 1.1lbs(500 g)
Red onions: 2.5oz(70 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 5.3oz(150 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Coriander: to taste
Vegetable oil: 0.9cup(200 g)
Soy milk: ½cup(100 g)
Rice vinegar: 2spoonfuls
Tabasco®: to taste
Tomato paste: 1tsp
Iceberg lettuce: 2 ½cups(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the seitan burgers, first boil the sweet potatoes for about 25 minutes . Meanwhile, prepare the burgers: place the seitan in a mixer and blend it coarsely ; then set it aside. Place the chickpeas in the mixer glass
and blend them until a puree is obtained . Then add it to the seitan mixture in a large bowl. Wash and chop the coriander
then add it to the mixture, along with the salt and pepper . Mix everything together , then cut out 4 squares of parchment paper about 5x5 inches.
Place them on a tray and lay an 8 cm (about 3-inch) diameter pastry ring on one of them. Fill it with the prepared mixture, pressing it down with a spoon . Then gently remove the pastry ring and repeat the same operation for the others . Cover with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator to firm up.
In the meantime, prepare the vegan mayonnaise: in the glass of an immersion blender, pour the soy milk and rice vinegar . Season with salt, then add the oil and emulsify everything ,
until you obtain a consistency similar to that of mayonnaise . Then add a few drops of Tabasco , a teaspoon of tomato paste , and mix everything together.
Wash the lettuce leaves, then dry them and cut them into julienne strips . Add them to the vegan mayonnaise and mix everything together .
At this point, the potato should also be ready; it should be cooked but not too soft. Drain it and transfer it to a bowl with ice water for a few seconds . Peel it and cut it into slices about 0.6 inches thick.
Then slice the tomatoes and onions . Braise the potatoes on both sides in a non-stick pan
and do the same for the tomatoes and onions . Take the burger and place it on the same pan where you cooked the vegetables. Wait about 3 minutes, then flip it
and cook it for a couple more minutes on the other side . Place it inside the bun , add the sweet potatoes ,
the tomato, onions , and the mayonnaise along with the lettuce . Close the bun and serve it while still hot .
It is recommended to consume the seitan burgers immediately.
Enrich your burger with grilled vegetables, basil pesto, and sun-dried tomatoes!

