name:
Bread rolls with vegetables and goat cheese
ingredients:
Long loaf sandwich bread: 5.3oz(150 g)- 1 slice
Goat: 8.8oz(250 g)
Asparagus: 8.5oz(240 g)
Yellow peppers: 1
Red peppers: 1
Basil: 10leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Note + cooling time (20 minutes)

instructions:
To prepare the bread rolls with vegetables and goat cheese, first take care of the yellow peppers. Remove the part with the stalk and cut them in half . Cook them briefly on a hot grill ,
turning them halfway through cooking , about 5 minutes will suffice. Once they are roasted but still crunchy, transfer them to a bowl and cover with plastic wrap . Repeat the same operation for the red peppers, cutting them in half
and cooking them as before . Then place them in another small bowl and cover with plastic wrap. Move on to the asparagus, wash them and remove the bottom part of the stem . Grill these for about 5 minutes as well and set them aside.
Create the goat cheese cream by adding chopped basil, a drizzle of oil , salt, and pepper to the cheese. Mix everything with a spatula until you get a homogeneous cream . Take the peppers and cut them into strips ,
then season them with salt, oil, and pepper . Spread a sheet of plastic wrap on a work surface, place the slice of white bread, and roll it slightly with a rolling pin both vertically and horizontally . Then spread the goat cheese cream evenly
and place the vegetables, leaving the end part free . Roll up the filled bread tightly , then wrap it in plastic wrap
and close it like a candy . Refrigerate to firm up for at least 20 minutes, then remove the plastic wrap and cut into 10 slices . Your bread rolls with vegetables and goat cheese are ready to serve !
The rolls can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can enrich your roll with raw or cooked ham and add a spicy note by adding a hint of paprika to the goat cheese and basil cream.

