name:
Pasta with vegetables and fiordilatte cream
ingredients:
5-grain Pennette Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Yellow peppers: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Baby Zucchini (summer squash): 6
Rose wine: ¼glass(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Coriander: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Prawns: 4
Curry: 1tsp
Water: 2tsp(10 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 2 ¼cups(250 g)- fiordilatte mozzarella
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6tbsp(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
For pasta with vegetables and fiordilatte cream, first bring a pot of water to a boil, which you will use to cook the pasta, then move on to the vegetables. Wash the baby zucchini, trim them , and slice them into rounds . Set the zucchini aside and move on to the peppers. Remove the cap ,
and cut them in half . Remove the filaments and seeds inside, then cut the peppers first into strips and finally into cubes .
Let a clove of garlic brown in its skin with a drizzle of oil and add the zucchini and peppers to the pan . Season with salt and pepper and sauté the vegetables for a few minutes over high heat , stirring often.
Deglaze with rosé wine , let it completely evaporate, and finish cooking: the vegetables should remain crisp. Now move on to the shrimp: to clean them, remove the head first , then the legs and the shell .
Cut the back with a small knife and remove the black filament . Place the curry in a small bowl, add the water , and mix well. Pour a drizzle of oil into a pan, let it heat up, and place the shrimp inside; add the curry paste immediately
and cook the shrimp over high heat for 2-3 minutes at most . At this point, cook the pasta in salted boiling water for a couple of minutes less than the time indicated on the package . In the meantime, prepare the fiordilatte cream: place the mozzarella in a small bowl, add the olive oil
and blend everything with an immersion blender . Add the fresh liquid cream and blend again until you obtain a fairly smooth cream .
When the pasta is al dente, drain it directly into the pan with the vegetables and sauté it together with a ladle of cooking water . Turn off the heat, add the chopped cilantro , and a drizzle of oil.
All that's left is to plate: spread a layer of fiordilatte cream on each plate, add the pasta and a shrimp , garnish with the chopped cilantro, and serve immediately .
It is recommended to consume the penne with fiordilatte cream immediately. Alternatively, they can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 day, separated from the cream.
Do you not like the taste of curry? No problem! Prepare a sauce with 1 tablespoon of orange blossom honey and 1 tablespoon of orange juice... your shrimp will have a unique aroma! In this case, replace the cilantro with fresh thyme.

