name:
Chicken and Zucchini Salad
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 0.9lb(400 g)- sliced
Zucchini: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Eggplant: 2 ½cups(200 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 1cup(150 g)
Mixed salad: 2cups(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.8tbsp(25 g)
Wildflower honey: 1 ¾tbsp(25 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Thyme: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + 1 h for marinating the chicken

instructions:
To prepare the chicken and zucchini salad, first, take care of marinating the chicken: place the chicken breasts in a baking dish, pour in the oil , season with salt and pepper , then add the honey ,
the juice of half a lemon , and a few sprigs of thyme . Turn the slices on both sides so that the entire surface of the meat is in contact with the marinade , then cover the baking dish with plastic wrap and let it rest for an hour at room temperature.
In the meantime, prepare the vegetables: wash the zucchinis, trim the ends, and slice them lengthwise with a knife into slices about 0.4 inches . Do the same with the eggplants . Finally, wash and quarter the cherry tomatoes .
Now heat a grill well, brush it with a little oil , then lay the zucchini slices on it and grill them on both sides, seasoning with salt to taste .
Grill and salt the eggplants as well, turning them on both sides , then move on to the chicken, which you will take directly from the marinade to transfer it to the grill . Use kitchen tongs to turn the slices to the other side so as not to pierce the meat and avoid the juices from leaking out .
Once grilled, cut the zucchinis , eggplants , and chicken slices into strips about 0.8 inches long .
Let the grilled vegetables cool slightly, then transfer them to a bowl, add the cherry tomatoes , the chicken, and the mixed salad greens, which have been previously washed and dried , then mix everything well and transfer to plates: your chicken and zucchini salad is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the chicken and zucchini salad immediately or store it in the refrigerator for one day, without adding the mixed greens.
Looking for ideas to make the chicken and zucchini salad even more tempting? Pine nuts will add a crunchy note, raisins a sweet and sour taste, sun-dried tomatoes a Mediterranean touch, feta cheese a hint of saltiness, lemon zest an intense aroma…

