name:
Pasta with lentils and Brussels sprouts
ingredients:
Gluten-free Fusilli pasta: 11oz(320 g)
Brussels sprouts: 8.1oz(230 g)
Peeled red lentils: ½cup(100 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 9oz(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 3spoonfuls
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Taggiasca olives: 1.75oz(50 g)- pitted
Shallot: 1
Thyme: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ¾tsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the pasta with lentils and Brussels sprouts, first rinse the lentils, then pour them into plenty of water ; bring them to a boil and cook for 5 minutes . Meanwhile, peel the shallot and cut it into wedges .
Wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half ; once the lentils are ready, drain them and set them aside. Finely chop the thyme and rosemary and set aside the aromatic herbs as well.
Bring water to a boil in a saucepan; meanwhile, peel the Brussels sprouts to remove the outer leaves, cut the stem at the base . Boil these for 10 minutes . Meanwhile, bring another pot of water to a boil and salt it when it boils: it will be used for cooking the pasta. Once the Brussels sprouts are cooked, drain them, reserving some cooking water, and place them in a blender jar .
Add the fresh liquid cream and a ladle of Brussels sprouts cooking water , blend everything to obtain a cream then salt and pepper.
Now cook the pasta for about 10 minutes or the time indicated on the package. In a pan, pour a drizzle of olive oil, the shallot, and the cherry tomatoes , and flavor with the previously prepared chopped aromatic herbs .
Sauté for a minute and then add the lentils , salt and cook for about 5 minutes. Then add the pitted Taggiasca olives, drained of the preservation oil .
Mix, turn off the heat, and once the pasta is ready, drain it directly into the pan with the cherry tomatoes and lentils . Toss to flavor, then serve by first placing the Brussels sprouts cream on the plate and then place the pasta on top . The pasta with lentils and Brussels sprouts is ready to enjoy!
We recommend consuming the gluten-free fusilli with Brussels sprouts immediately. We do not recommend any storage method. The Brussels sprout cream can be stored separately in the refrigerator or frozen if you have used fresh ingredients.
If you love strong flavors, you can add a pinch of chili pepper. As an alternative to olives, you can use marinated peppers.

