name:
Gluten-free plumcake
ingredients:
Fioretto corn flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Rice flour: ½cup(70 g)
Potato starch: ½cup(70 g)
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 0.67cup(130 g)
Yogurt: ½cup(125 g)
Eggs: 3.5oz(100 g)- (about 2 medium)
Whole milk: ¼cup(40 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: ⅓cup(50 g)
Baking powder: 1bag- gluten-free
Butter: to taste
Potato starch: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the gluten-free plumcake, first, place the softened butter and sugar in a bowl . Work with an electric mixer for a few minutes until you get a cream , then while continuing to beat, add the eggs .
Work the mixture until they are completely absorbed . With the mixer still running, slowly add the yogurt and as soon as it blends with the rest of the ingredients, add the milk .
Keeping the mixer running, add the fine cornmeal , rice flour , and potato starch .
and the baking powder . As soon as you obtain a uniform mixture , you can turn off the mixer. Add the chopped hazelnuts .
and incorporate them with the rest by mixing with a spatula . At this point, take a 26x11 cm loaf pan, butter it, and dust it with potato starch . Pour the mixture inside .
and level the surface with a spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 40-45 minutes on the lower shelf. Always do the toothpick test before taking the cake out of the oven and let it cool completely before removing it from the mold. The gluten-free plumcake is ready to enjoy .
The gluten-free plumcake can be stored for 2-3 days under a glass dome. You can freeze the already cooked plumcake, possibly already divided into portions.
For a special aroma, add a pinch of cinnamon or orange zest to the dough. For an even more delicious snack, serve the plumcake with a scoop of ice cream!
For gluten-free recipes, we recommend purchasing only products that display the crossed-out ear of wheat on the packaging, certified gluten-free, recommended by the AIC Italian Celiac Association handbook.

