name:
Ricotta lemon soufflé with lemon and cinnamon sauce
ingredients:
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ½cup(150 g)
Lemon peel: 3
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Egg whites: ½cup(130 g)
Egg yolks: 2.6oz(75 g)
Cornstarch: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Cinnamon sticks: 2
Sugar: 4tsp(20 g)
Potato starch: 0.4oz(10 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1.7cups(400 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare the ricotta lemon soufflés with lemon and cinnamon sauce, first grate the lemon zest and pour it into a bowl (with the lemon juice you can prepare a great fresh lemonade perhaps flavored with mint leaves), add the ricotta , the sugar,
the cornstarch and 75 g of egg yolks (be very precise with these measurements); mix everything with an electric mixer at medium speed ,
until you obtain a smooth cream . Pour 130 g of egg whites into a perfectly clean bowl (also for the quantity of egg whites, be sure to weigh these gram amounts exactly) and whip them to very stiff peaks with a perfectly clean electric mixer set to medium speed .
With a spatula, gradually fold the egg whites into the previously obtained yolk and ricotta mixture and gently combine everything from top to bottom . Transfer the soufflé mixture into four ceramic ramekins each with a capacity of about 5 oz (150 g) and a diameter of about 3 1/4 inches (8.5 cm), lightly butter them and fill them until the mixture is used up.
Once filled let them rest in the fridge for a short time and in the meantime fill a baking dish with water and place it in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C), so that the water becomes very hot before proceeding with the bain-marie cooking (the baking dish should hold the 4 ramekins). Move on to the accompanying sauce: in a saucepan pour 3/4 cup (200 g) of heavy cream, along with the cinnamon sticks and bring it to a boil. Once it reaches a boil, turn off the heat and cover the saucepan with plastic wrap or a lid, to let the cinnamon sticks infuse.
In a bowl pour the potato starch and sugar , then remove the cinnamon sticks from the previously heated cream ; pour the flavored cream into the bowl with sugar and starch .
Mix with the whisk to combine , then transfer the mixture to a saucepan and, over low heat using a spatula, stir everything until it thickens .
Once thickened, transfer the mixture to a bowl and gradually incorporate the remaining 3/4 cup (200 g) of heavy cream : mix with the whisk to obtain a smooth sauce, flavor with the zest of one lemon
and set aside . Meanwhile, bake the soufflés cooking them in a bain-marie, in the baking dish with the previously heated water, in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C) for about 20 minutes. Once cooked, remove the ricotta lemon soufflés with lemon and cinnamon sauce from the oven and serve immediately (26-27).
It is preferable to consume the ricotta lemon soufflés as soon as they are ready. As time goes by from when they are taken out of the oven, they may deflate: they will still be delicious! Freezing is not recommended.
You can accompany your ricotta lemon soufflés with a coulis of fresh seasonal fruit as an alternative to the lemon and cinnamon sauce.

