name:
Chicken bites in Parmesan crust
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)- to grate
Eggs: 2
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Stale bread: 1.67cups(100 g)- crumb
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the chicken bites in Parmesan crust, first make the cheese wafers: place a sheet of parchment paper on a baking tray and evenly distribute 20 g of Parmesan in the center, creating a disk by pressing with the back of 1 tablespoon (1-2). Grill the cheese in the oven for a couple of minutes at 464°F, placing the tray on the highest shelf. As soon as the cheese starts to turn golden and forms bubbles on the surface, remove it .
Place the wafer while still warm and soft on an inverted aluminum cup, without removing the parchment paper . Press slightly once placed on the cup so that the wafer takes the shape of a basket . Place them in the fridge to set for a couple of minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the chicken bites: cut off the crust from the stale bread ,
then cut the crumb into cubes and place it in a mixer to chop it , transfer the crumbs to a bowl, add salt ,
pepper and set aside. Cut the chicken breast into cubes of about 1-1.5 inches . Also prepare a bowl with the beaten egg and one with 50 g of grated Parmesan, ready for coating the bites .
Take a bite, first dip it in the egg , then in the Parmesan . Dip it again in the egg
and finally into the bread crumbs . Move on to frying: heat the vegetable oil in a pan and when it reaches a temperature of 338°F (to be measured with a thermometer), immerse the bites . We recommend cooking a few pieces at a time to avoid excessively lowering the oil temperature. Cook for about 3 minutes until the chicken is golden. Then drain
and place on a tray lined with straw paper or absorbent paper for frying to dry the excess oil . Take your Parmesan wafers from the fridge, gently remove the parchment paper, and you will see they have formed into baskets . Place them on a serving plate or board, fill them with the chicken bites, and serve the Parmesan crusted chicken bites hot !
We recommend consuming the Parmesan crusted chicken bites immediately; we do not recommend storing them after cooking.
The chicken bites can also be baked: try static mode at 356°F for about 15 minutes, turning them halfway through. The Parmesan crust can also be cooked, still placed on a sheet of parchment paper, in the microwave for a few seconds at maximum power.

