name:
Spelt balls with ricotta and vegetables
ingredients:
Pearled farro: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(200 g)
Green beans: 0.8cup(120 g)
Zucchini flowers: 3cups(100 g)
Fava beans: 1.4oz(40 g)- (already shelled)
Breadcrumbs: ¾cup(100 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)- to grate
Eggs: 1
Wild fennel: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Coarse salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 20 pieces

instructions:
To prepare spelt balls with ricotta and vegetables, first boil the spelt for about 10 minutes . After the cooking time, drain the spelt and quickly rinse it under cold water , then pour it into a large bowl that you will temporarily set aside. Proceed to prepare the vegetables: wash the green beans, trim the ends and cut them into slices ,
then gently clean the zucchini flowers, remove the inner stem and chop them with a knife ; finally coarsely chop the already shelled fava beans . Take the bowl with the spelt and add the green beans ,
the fava beans, the zucchini flowers , the fennel which you have previously chopped , the ricotta ,
the grated Pecorino , the breadcrumbs , the egg , salt and pepper.
Mix all the ingredients well and with the obtained mixture form balls weighing about 2 oz each . Flatten them slightly with your hands and place them on a tray as you shape them: you will get 20 with these quantities . Meanwhile, heat the vegetable oil in a saucepan until it reaches a temperature of 340°F (you can check the temperature with a kitchen thermometer). Fry a few meatballs at a time , turning them on both sides, for a total time of about 5 minutes.
When the meatballs are evenly golden, remove them from the oil with a slotted spoon and let them drain on a sheet of paper for frying . Continue with all the others, then sprinkle with a bit of coarse salt (or Maldon salt). Your spelt balls with ricotta and vegetables are ready to be served hot !
The spelt balls with ricotta and vegetables can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Customize the recipe as you wish by replacing the vegetables according to the season and availability. Instead of ricotta, you can use crescenza or another type of soft cheese. If you desire a dipping sauce, you can make a fragrant fava bean cream following the instructions in the Millet balls with vegetables and broad bean cream recipe, or opt for Greek yogurt flavored with mint and lemon zest.

