name:
Avocado cheesecake
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 8.5oz(240 g)
Dark chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
Avocado: 2- ripe
Mascarpone cheese: 0.67cup(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 3 ⅓tbsp(50 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Lime juice: 0.5oz(15 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
Avocado: ½
Pistachios: to taste
Lime peel: to taste
Lime juice: to taste
Gelatine: ¾tsp(4 g)- powder (cake mix)
Water: ½cup(125 g)
Lime juice: 1 ½tsp(7 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the time for the base and the cream to set in the fridge (at different stages)

instructions:
To prepare the avocado cheesecake, start with the base: finely crumble the cookies using a food processor , then transfer them to a bowl . Melt the dark chocolate in the microwave or in a double boiler; once cooled, pour it over the crumbled cookies
and mix thoroughly . Line a shallow baking sheet with parchment paper, then place a rectangular bottomless mold measuring 10x7 inches. Pour the cookie and chocolate mixture inside and level it with the back of a spoon . Place the mold in the fridge for at least an hour to let the cookie base set properly.
Meanwhile, prepare the cream: soak the gelatin sheets in a small bowl with cold water for at least 10 minutes. Meanwhile, halve 2 avocados : first remove the pit (if you don't discard it, you can let it sprout by immersing it in water ensuring the base of the pit is well submerged),
then remove the flesh with a spoon and gently mash it in a bowl with a fork . Sprinkle with 1 tbsp of lime juice and mix.
Pour the cream into a small pot and bring to just below boiling; when the gelatin has softened, gently squeeze it and add it to the hot cream , stirring everything thoroughly with a whisk (it's important for the gelatin to dissolve completely) . With electric whisks at medium speed, work the mashed avocado, pouring in the cream and gelatin mixture ,
the sugar , and the mascarpone and work until you obtain a homogeneous cream. After the base has set, take it out of the fridge, pour the avocado cream over it ,
level it with a spatula (19-20) and place the cake back in the fridge for at least 20 minutes. Now move on to preparing the decorations for your cheesecake: pour the powdered gelatin into a small pot, then add the water
and 1/2 tbsp of lime juice ; mix everything with a manual whisk on low heat for about a couple of minutes . Remove the gelatin from the heat and let it cool; to help you, you can pour it into a small jug. While the gelatin is cooling, clean the third avocado: proceed like the others, halving it, removing the pit, and extracting the flesh, then cut only half into very thin slices .
Pour a little lime juice over the slices to prevent them from browning. Ideally divide the rectangles into 8 parts and place two slightly overlapping avocado slices, spaced from each other until you end up with what will become the 8 squares , decorate with pistachios
distribute the lime zest , then pour the previously prepared and cooled gelatin . Refrigerate your avocado cheesecake for at least an hour to firm up again, then serve it already portioned .
Store the cheesecake in the fridge for 2-3 days, preferably without fresh avocado as decoration.
It can also be frozen already portioned.


If you don't like avocado, try replacing it with mango, keeping the same procedure. If you want an even fresher note to make your avocado cheesecake even more tantalizing, try flavoring the cream by grating fresh ginger into it and making the topping gelatin by adding fresh mint leaves that you will blend with an immersion blender (it will suffice to blend the gelatin mixture once, away from the heat).

