name:
Tomato and Bread Soup with Spring Vegetables
ingredients:
Tomato purée: 2.8cups(660 g)- cherry
Tuscan bread: 7.8oz(220 g)- stale
Water: 3.1cups(750 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Basil: to taste
Green beans: ¾cup(100 g)
Zucchini: 1cup(150 g)
Carrots: 1cup(130 g)
Red onions: 4.6oz(130 g)
Eggplant: 7oz(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Green Peperoncino: ½tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare the tomato and bread soup with spring vegetables, start by slicing the Tuscan bread thinly . Place the slices on a baking sheet covered with parchment paper without overlapping them . Bake at 392°F for 5/7 minutes. Once removed from the oven, let them cool slightly. Once the bread slices have cooled slightly, rub the previously peeled garlic cloves on them .
Now take a high-sided non-stick pan and place the toasted bread inside. Pour the tomato purée and the water over it so that the slices of bread are completely covered by the liquid. Stir and cook on low heat for 40-50 minutes to evaporate the liquid. Stir often to achieve even cooking and to break down the bread into a mush, salt, and pepper.
Meanwhile, take care of the vegetables: peel and chop the red onion , wash and trim the green beans and cut them into small cubes of about a quarter inch , do the same with the zucchini
and eggplants . Peel the carrots and cut them into cubes as well . Heat the olive oil in a pan, then add the chopped onions , sauté for about 3 minutes, then proceed by adding the vegetables one by one according to their cooking time.
Add the eggplants first , stew for 3 minutes, then add the carrots , and after another 3 minutes, the green beans
and finally the zucchini . Continue cooking over medium heat for another 10 minutes. Once ready, season with the chili powder and scent with the fresh basil leaves .
Meanwhile, the tomato and bread soup will be cooked, turn off the heat, adjust the salt and pepper , and garnish with basil leaves . Serve the tomato and bread soup with the previously cooked vegetables .
The tomato and bread soup with spring vegetables can be stored for up to 2 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container.
Do you want to enjoy this delicious soup all year round? Replace the spring vegetables with other vegetables that the colder seasons offer: pumpkin, cabbages, fennels, and artichokes, the dish will be equally colorful and tasty!

