name:
Cardamom Tiramisu
ingredients:
Coffee: 7oz(200 g)
Cardamon: 20- berries
Ladyfingers: 3.5oz(100 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste
Ground pistachio: ¼cup(20 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(125 g)
Egg yolks: 4
Water: 1.75oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note 1 night of infusion

instructions:
To make the cardamom tiramisu, first cut the cardamom pods in half , prepare the moka coffee, add the cardamom , and let it infuse overnight. The next day, focus on the rest of the preparation, starting with the mascarpone cream: pour water into a small pot and add the granulated sugar . Stir to moisten the sugar well, then heat gently until the syrup reaches 250°F (to monitor the temperature accurately, use a food thermometer); if you don't have a thermometer, the syrup is ready when small white bubbles form on the surface.
Just before reaching 250°F, once it reaches about 240°F , start beating the egg yolks with an electric whisk . Once the syrup reaches 250°F, pour it in a thin stream over the yolks , continuing to beat with the whisk.
Beat until completely cool . In a bowl, slightly soften the mascarpone with a spatula . Gradually add the cooled beaten yolks to the mascarpone, mixing with a soft spatula with an upward motion
until you obtain a smooth cream . Everything is ready to assemble the cardamom tiramisu: strain the coffee through a sieve , transfer the mascarpone cream into a piping bag, and squeeze a bit of cream at the bottom of the glass to create a first layer
dust the surface with unsweetened cocoa powder , now break the ladyfingers, dip them in coffee to soak them , then lay them in the glass .
Pour another layer of cream and continue layering in the same order until reaching the top , smoothing the surface well so it is even. For decoration: place a sheet on top of each glass, positioning it to divide the surface into two equal parts
and dust cocoa on the uncovered part , garnish the other half with chopped pistachios . The cardamom tiramisu is ready to be enjoyed .
Store the mascarpone cream for a maximum of 3-4 days, well covered or in an airtight container in the refrigerator. The cardamom tiramisu can be frozen for up to one month.
You can also make the tiramisu with an eggless Mascarpone cream

