name:
Potato Danube
ingredients:
Potatoes: 0.5lb(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 2.8cups(350 g)
Eggs: 1.8oz(50 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(13 g)
Peanut seed oil: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 1.5oz(40 g)
Provola cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Taggiasca olives: 18- pitted
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Makes: 18 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus the rising time (80 minutes)

instructions:
To prepare the potato Danube, first place the potatoes in a pot with water and let them boil for about 20-30 minutes. When they are soft, drain them and peel them , then mash them and let them cool down.
At this point, pour the flour into the bowl of a stand mixer and add the slightly crumbled yeast . Then add the mashed potatoes and work with the hook until they are well blended .
Continue to work the mixture and also add the salt . When it is well compact , incorporate the seed oil and knead until it is absorbed.
Then also add the egg and work until you get a smooth mixture ; don't worry if it is slightly sticky. Then transfer it to a surface sprinkled with plenty of flour , work it for a few moments.
and shape it into a spherical form . Place in a bowl , cover with plastic wrap and let rise for about 50 minutes in a dry place, until it has doubled in size . If the house temperature is too low, let it rise in an off oven with only the light on.
At this point, cut the provola into cubes and chop the cooked ham with a knife . Transfer the dough to a work surface .
and divide it into portions of about 1.3 ounces each : with these quantities you should get 18. Shape each portion of dough into balls between your hands , then slightly press the center .
and flatten them with your fingers . Fill with a bit of ham, a piece of provola , and an olive .
Close the balls , move them slightly on the surface to obtain a regular spherical shape and gradually arrange them in a mold with a diameter of 8.5 inches at the base and 10 inches at the top, previously greased with olive oil (or butter). Leave some space between one ball and another because they will continue to grow.
Once the last ball is placed , let rise for another 30 minutes, until they are completely joined . Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 356°F in static mode, then beat the yolk with the milk .
and use it to brush the surface of the potato Danube (31-32). Bake in the preheated static oven at 356°F for about 25 minutes, on the lower shelf, until it is well golden .
Store the potato Danube in the fridge and consume within 3 days. You can freeze the raw Danube, before the second rising, and defrost it in the refrigerator to then bring it back to room temperature before cooking it.
Get creative with the filling using other cheeses and cold cuts! For a vegetarian version, replace the cooked ham with sun-dried tomatoes!

