name:
Vignarola
ingredients:
Fava beans: 1.1lbs(500 g)- fresh, to be shelled
Peas: 1.1lbs(500 g)- fresh, to be shelled
Lettuce: 1- Roman
Purple artichokes: 3cups(390 g)
Fresh scallion: 2
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Dry white wine: 2.5oz(70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare Roman vignarola, first, shell the peas and fava beans . You should get about 7 oz of each .
Move on to the romaine lettuce and cut it into medium strips , rinse it , and set aside. Now deal with the artichokes: remove the outer leaves that would be tough when cooked and obtain the artichoke heart.
Using a paring knife, round and peel the stem ; then cut the tip of the artichoke and divide it in half .
Without removing the inner choke, slice the artichoke into thin slices . Remove the green part of the spring onion, cut it first in half, and then into julienne strips . Also slice the chili pepper .
Proceed with cooking the vignarola: pour a drizzle of oil into a pan, let it heat up, and add the spring onions . Wait a few moments and also add the chili pepper , then let it wilt over moderate heat for a few minutes. As soon as the spring onion is golden, increase the heat slightly and add the artichokes .
Wait 3-4 minutes and add the fava beans , stir and after another 3 minutes, also add the peas . Wait another 3-4 minutes, tossing the vegetables, and add the romaine lettuce .
Deglaze with white wine , wait for the alcohol to completely evaporate, and cover with a lid . Let it cook for at least 10 minutes, then remove the lid ,
season with salt and finish cooking for another 5 minutes. Then turn off the heat, add a drizzle of oil , and serve your vignarola .
The vignarola can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2-3 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
In addition to the numerous regional variations of this dish, such as the Lucanian Ciaudedda , there are also tasty versions enriched with guanciale or pancetta... why not give it a try?


