name:
Salmon pasta with leek cream
ingredients:
5-grain spaghetti  pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Salmon steaks: 6oz(170 g)
Leeks: 2 ¾cups(250 g)
Fennel: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Shallot: 1
Water: 2cups(500 g)
Orange peel: 1
Orange juice: 1
Chives: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the pasta with salmon and leek cream, start by cleaning the shallot , then cut it into coarse pieces. Peel the leek and slice it into rings , wash the fennel, cut the harder base, and slice it thinly .
Squeeze the juice from the orange , grate the zest, and set both aside. Heat a drizzle of olive oil in a pan and sauté the fennel for a couple of minutes , they should remain crunchy .
In a high-sided pan, heat a drizzle of oil and add the pieces of shallot , add the leek and let it brown for a few moments, then cover with water .
Salt and let it cook for 20 minutes over moderate heat. Place a pot filled with water on the stove, salted as desired, which will be used for the pasta cooking. In the meantime, take care of the salmon: remove any bones from the fillet with kitchen tweezers, then heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, place the salmon , and sear it on both sides until well golden; then pour in the orange juice .
Cover with the lid and cook over moderate heat for 10 minutes. Once cooked, the salmon will be well done and pink , transfer it to a bowl and shred it with the help of two spoons .
At this point, cook the spaghetti al dente in boiling water for about 7 minutes (adjust to the time indicated on the package). Meanwhile, take the leeks which will have reached cooking , transfer them into a blender glass and blend them
until a smooth cream is obtained ; if necessary, add some of the pasta cooking water. Pour the leek cream into a pan and chop the chives. When the pasta is al dente, drain it directly into the pan with the leek cream ,
season with the chives , pepper then serve on plates adding to each portion a handful of sautéed fennel
a tablespoon of salmon , garnish with grated orange zest and immediately enjoy your salmon pasta with leek cream .
It is recommended to consume the salmon pasta with leek cream immediately. You can store the leek cream in the refrigerator for a couple of days or freeze it.
For a more aromatic note, you can replace black pepper with pink pepper. If the pasta seems too dry, add a ladle of cooking water to achieve a creamier consistency!

