name:
Turmeric risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Fresh turmeric: 4.2oz(120 g)- to clean
White onions: ½cup(60 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
White wine: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)- to grate
Chives: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the turmeric risotto, first make the Vegetable broth by following the recipe on our site; you will need about a quart. Now peel and finely chop the onion , then wash and dry the fresh turmeric. Peel the turmeric, taking care to wear disposable food gloves because fresh turmeric tends to stain a lot . Cut it into cubes about a quarter inch thick (or even smaller pieces if you prefer) : you'll need about 2.2 oz of cleaned turmeric.
Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the chopped onion and diced turmeric and let them stew over medium-low heat for about 10 minutes, using a ladle of hot broth to prevent it from drying out too much .
When the onion has softened, add the rice and toast it for a few minutes until it turns transparent. Deglaze with the white wine and let it evaporate completely, then continue cooking the rice by adding a ladle of hot broth at a time and stirring often.
When the rice is cooked, turn off the heat and add the grated Parmesan , butter , and chopped chives ,
mix well to combine everything and finally, pepper to taste : your turmeric risotto is ready to be enjoyed !
Turmeric risotto can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
If you've never tasted it, fresh turmeric will surprise you with its slightly tangy, pungent flavor with earthy undertones: however, if you prefer, you can chop it into smaller pieces to ensure all the flavors blend well.
Fresh turmeric has a much more intense aroma than powdered turmeric, so if you decide to use the latter, start with two tablespoons, taste, and gradually increase the amount until you achieve a result to your liking.
Note: Turmeric is a dye, so it will also color your hands... be sure to wear gloves before handling it!
For a lighter taste, try creaming the risotto with a dollop of crème fraîche instead of butter and Parmesan. If you prefer to replace the chives, feel free to use thyme, marjoram, or rosemary!

