name:
Zucchini rolls with ragù
ingredients:
Zucchini: 5 ¼cups(650 g)
Beef: 0.5lb(250 g)- ground
Tomato purée: 2.1cups(500 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)
Shallot: 1
White wine: 4tbsp(60 g)
Marjoram: 6leaves
Emmentaler cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the zucchini rolls, first clean the shallot and finely chop it , then place it in a pot with a bit of olive oil and let it stew over low heat for 2 minutes. When the mixture is soft and translucent, add the ground beef and brown it for a few minutes
and then deglaze with white wine . Once the alcohol has evaporated, add the tomato sauce . Rinse the container with 50 g of water and add this to the ragù as well .
Salt, stir, and let it cook for about 40 minutes with the lid slightly open. Meanwhile, prepare the zucchinis: wash them, trim the ends, and slice them into strips with a mandoline ; you should get slices about 0.28 inches thick. Transfer them to a bowl and season with 2 tablespoons of olive oil .
Heat a grill, place the zucchini slices on it, and cook for 1 minute on each side . As they are cooked, place them on a plate and salt them . Meanwhile, the ragù will be done; perfume it with marjoram leaves , finally adjust the salt and pepper.
Now you can assemble the rolls: cut the cheese into slices the same width as your zucchini , then stuff the zucchini with a slice of cheese and a teaspoon of ragù . Finally, roll up the zucchinis .
Take small individual baking dishes and spread the ragù on the bottom , then place the rolls inside and grill them at 464°F for about 8 minutes, just enough time for the cheese to melt. Serve your zucchini rolls while still warm .
The zucchini rolls can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container. You can freeze them if you've used fresh ingredients.
As an alternative to meat ragù, you can use simple tomato sauce. You can replace emmental with another cheese like provolone or mozzarella, with the recommendation of draining it very well to prevent it from releasing liquids while cooking. Here we propose refined individual portions, but nothing stops you from using a single large baking dish to serve the rolls.

