name:
Swordfish rolls with mango sauce
ingredients:
Swordfish: 1.1lbs(480 g)- (8 slices)
Homemade bread: 3.5oz(100 g)- crumb
Lemon peel: 1- (to grate)
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Mango: 1- ripe
Fresh ginger: 1.1oz(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the swordfish rolls with mango sauce, start with the sauce: take a ripe mango, remove the skin with a smooth-bladed knife , and cut the flesh into coarse pieces . Also peel the ginger
Grate the ginger into a jug , then add the mango, extra virgin olive oil , salt, and pepper. Blend with an immersion blender until you get a creamy and homogeneous sauce .
Now focus on the filling of the rolls: cut the fresh bread without crust into cubes and put it in a blender, then add the basil leaves, which you have washed and dried (set aside the smaller ones for the final garnish) and the grated zest of one lemon .
Season with oil , salt, and pepper, and blend until you get rather fine and uniform crumbs . Spread the swordfish slices on the work surface and add a tablespoon of the obtained mixture, distributing it evenly over the entire surface, being careful to leave the edges free .
Fold the longer sides inward , then roll the slice on itself from bottom to top . Proceed in this way to form all the rolls. Heat a non-stick pan with a drizzle of oil, place the rolls with the closure facing down , and cook over medium-high heat for about a minute to seal it well.
Turn the rolls to brown all sides evenly : it will take 2-3 minutes in total. Place the cooked rolls on a serving plate using kitchen tongs so as not to pierce them , then complete with mango sauce and the basil leaves you had set aside: your swordfish rolls with mango sauce are ready to be served !
We recommend consuming the swordfish rolls with mango sauce as soon as they are ready, or at most storing them in the refrigerator for one day.
The mango sauce can be frozen.
If you wish, you can enrich the filling of the swordfish rolls with sliced almonds, toasted pistachios, or chopped sun-dried tomatoes that will give the breading a crunchy and flavorful note.
For the mango sauce, we recommend using a delicately flavored olive oil, otherwise, you can replace it with the same amount of seed oil.

