name:
Vegetarian Phyllo Dough Rolls
ingredients:
Asparagus: ¾cup(100 g)
Baby Zucchini (summer squash): 3.5oz(100 g)
Snap peas: ½cup(80 g)
Carrots: 2.1oz(60 g)
Stracciatella cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 0.4cup(60 g)
Bean sprouts: to taste
Shallot: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Phyllo dough: 8fogli- (from 43x35 cm)
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the rolls, first prepare the filling: wash the carrots, trim and peel them with a vegetable peeler, remove the skin and use the same peeler to cut the carrots into thin slices , layer two strips , then cut them into thin strips .
Now wash the snow peas and cut them into small pieces , remove the tougher base from the asparagus, and peel the stalk to remove the fibrous part. Then cut the asparagus into small pieces as well . Wash the cherry tomatoes, cut them in half and then slice them .
Wash the zucchini, trim them and cut them in half lengthwise to obtain sticks , then dice them . Now clean the shallot and chop it finely .
Heat a little oil in a pan , add the shallot and let it stew over moderate heat until it is soft, then add the zucchini , the carrots, the snow peas .
And also the asparagus . Sauté them for a few minutes, they should soften but remain firm. Salt and pepper and set aside. Now layer two sheets of phyllo dough .
Cut them into three equal parts to obtain strips, brush each strip with a little water to rehydrate it , at this point you can fill the dough by placing a spoonful of sautéed vegetables at the base of the strip .
The sliced cherry tomatoes , the stracciatella cheese , and some beet sprouts .
Now fold the side edges of the dough and roll the entire strip keeping the filling tight , before finishing, brush the final edge with water to help the dough stick better. Proceed with the others: you will get a total of 12 rolls. Heat the seed oil in a pan and when it reaches 340-355°F, start frying the rolls a few at a time .
Once they are golden brown, drain them with a slotted spoon and place them on a tray lined with absorbent paper , serve the rolls hot .
Once cooked, you can store the rolls in the refrigerator for a couple of days in an airtight container. Phyllo dough is sold frozen so it is not possible to freeze the rolls.
Vary the filling with the vegetables you prefer: artichokes, green beans, peas, and other spring vegetables!

