name:
Cornbread
ingredients:
Corn flour: 4 ¼cups(500 g)- black
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(160 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 6tsp(28 g)
Butter: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Eggs: 6- medium
Fine salt: 2 ½tsp(14 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the cornbread, you must separately prepare the liquid and powdered ingredients and then mix them together at the end. This method is called the "muffin method." In a saucepan, start heating the milk and add the butter in pieces . You should heat the mixture until the butter has melted .
In the meantime, in a bowl, pour the all-purpose flour and black cornmeal , then the instant yeast for savory preparations and the salt . You must mix everything thoroughly with a whisk .
This phase is very important to distribute the leavening agent evenly , to obtain a bread with uniform cooking, without taller or shorter parts. In another bowl, pour the eggs and beat them . Now it's time to add the warm milk and butter mixture to the egg mixture. To prevent the egg from cooking and creating a "scrambled egg" effect, wait a few minutes; then place a dry cloth under the bowl with the beaten eggs, take the whisk, and slowly pour the warm milk and butter mixture while stirring energetically and continuously .
In this way, the egg will come to the same temperature as the butter and milk mix without coagulating . Preheat the oven to 340°F in fan mode and butter a 12x9 inch rectangular pan ; once the liquid mixtures are combined, you can proceed to pour all the dry ingredients into the liquid egg, butter, and milk mixture ,
mixing as little as necessary to combine . Quickly pour the mixture into the previously buttered pan (14-15) and immediately place in the preheated oven at 340°F in fan mode for about 20-25 minutes, baking on the lowest rack. Adjust for more precision with your oven's power, increasing or decreasing the temperature by 10°F more or less, for example; or leave the 340°F in fan mode unchanged but increase the baking time.
Once baked, remove the cornbread from the oven , let it cool slightly, and then place a cutting board on top to invert the pan ; gently remove the pan ,
then place another cutting board or a rectangular serving plate on top of the cornbread and flip it again . Cut the cornbread into many rectangles to serve it .
This rich and tasty bread is usually consumed in small pieces , perhaps seasoned in the sweet version with fresh fruit and maple syrup ; for example, we chose strawberries. Your cornbread is ready to be served as a dessert , or simply to enrich the bread basket!
You can store the cornbread for 1-2 days under a glass dome.
It is preferable to consume it quickly, but if you prefer, you can freeze it once cooked and cooled.
The flour used by Chef Cristina Bowerman is a black cornmeal available from small producers. You can still use regular cornmeal instead, as long as it is slightly coarser so that it does not absorb too much water. For a gluten-free preparation, you can replace the 160 g of all-purpose flour with cornmeal.
The dry ingredients should be mixed thoroughly to ensure the leavening agent spreads evenly to avoid the cornbread puffing up irregularly after baking.
When mixing the liquid and dry ingredients, it is always preferable to pour the powders into the liquid part; this way, you will avoid parts of flour remaining at the bottom of the bowl.
To avoid gluten development, the powder mixture should be added all at once.
For baking, we advise you to adjust better based on your oven's power.

