name:
Rice salad with dried fruit
ingredients:
Arborio rice: 0.6cup(120 g)
Green beans: 0.4cup(50 g)
Blueberries: 0.15cup(30 g)
Hazelnuts: ⅛cup(20 g)
Almond slices: ¼cup(20 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.4oz(10 g)
Lamb's lettuce: to taste
Lemon peel: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tsp
Raspberries: 2.1oz(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Mint: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the rice salad with dried fruit, start by cooking the rice: bring a pot of water to a boil, add salt, pour in the rice, and let it cook for the time indicated on the package . Meanwhile, you can prepare the other ingredients that will make up the salad: wash the blueberries and cut them in half , then wash the green beans, trim them, and also divide them lengthwise in half .
Fill another small pot with water and bring it to a boil, add the sliced green beans , and blanch them for about a minute, then drain and transfer them to a bowl filled with cold water (preferably with added ice cubes) : this way, you'll stop the green beans from cooking further, keeping them crunchy and allowing them to retain their color. Once cooled, drain the green beans, dry them, and set them aside. After the rice has finished cooking, drain it and rinse it under cold running water to stop the cooking .
Transfer the well-drained rice into a bowl, season it with a teaspoon of oil and the grated zest of half a lemon , mix well , and set aside.
Now coarsely chop the hazelnuts, place them in a hot pan along with the slivered almonds , and toast them over high heat for about a minute . Lastly, prepare the raspberry dressing: gently wash and pat dry the raspberries, transfer them to a small bowl, and mash them with a fork ,
then season the puree with 2 tbsps of oil , a pinch of salt, and the chopped mint leaves , mix well , and set aside.
Now you can assemble your rice salad inside the jars: add a spoonful of rice to the bottom of the jar, pour a tablespoon of raspberry dressing , lay down a layer of green beans , add a tablespoon of blueberries ,
some lamb's lettuce leaves, and finally, a tablespoon of toasted dried fruit . Repeat the layers by adding another spoonful of rice , a tablespoon of raspberry dressing ,
some lamb's lettuce leaves, Parmesan shavings (use a vegetable peeler to make the shavings) , a tablespoon of dried fruit, and the grated zest of the other half lemon . Your rice salad with dried fruit is ready to be enjoyed !
The rice salad with dried fruit can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
Feel free to substitute the ingredients of this recipe to suit both your tastes and the seasonality of fruits and vegetables.
If you like wild arugula, try using it instead of lamb’s lettuce: it will give the rice salad a pleasant bitter note that contrasts with the sweetness of the berries!

