name:
Pad thai
ingredients:
Rice tagliatelle pasta: 10.6oz(300 g)
Shrimps: 7oz(200 g)- black tiger (already cleaned)
Soybean sprouts: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Peanuts: 0.6cup(80 g)
Vegetable oil: ¼cup(60 g)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fish paste: 1.5oz(40 g)
Tamarind juice: 1.4oz(40 g)
Soy sauce: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 3cloves
Coriander: to taste
Chives: to taste
Lime: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare pad thai, first cover the rice noodles with warm water and let them soak until it's time to add them to the cooking . Wash and dry the cilantro, then chop it finely . Also chop the chives .
Heat the wok with 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil, then add the peanuts and toast them for a few minutes, stirring often to prevent burning , then transfer them to a bowl and set aside.
Remove the used oil from the wok and pour the remaining 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil , then grate the garlic cloves and sauté them over medium heat for a couple of minutes . Now drain the rice noodles and add them to the wok , mix to combine them with the sauté and stir-fry them over medium heat.
Add the tamarind juice and fish paste , mix well, then also add half of the soy sauce and mix again.
At this point, pour in the water and increase the heat, then add the chopped cilantro and chives , continuing to stir.
Also add the bean sprouts, which you have previously rinsed , and mix to combine them with the rest of the preparation, stir-frying everything over high heat. Now move the rice noodles to one side of the wok to create a free space and add the shrimp ; pour the remaining soy sauce only over the shrimp
and briefly sear them, stirring gently to keep them intact . After searing the shrimp, mix to combine them with the rest of the preparation, add the toasted peanuts , and stir-fry everything one last time, then turn off the heat. Serve the pad thai garnishing the plate with some lime slices and enjoy it immediately !
It is recommended to serve the pad thai immediately to avoid the noodles sticking together. If necessary, it can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days in an airtight container.
For a vegetarian version of pad thai, replace the shrimp with tofu, or add eggs to the wok for a scrambled effect. For a meat variation, use diced chicken. You can also add vegetables like scallions, green beans, bell peppers... the important thing is that they remain nice and crunchy! As for the chili pepper, finally, add it fresh to your liking and don't forget to squeeze some lime juice on the dish to enjoy it at its best!

