name:
Coffee parfait
ingredients:
Coffee: 4tbsp(60 ml)
Egg yolks: 2.8oz(80 g)- (approximately 5 yolks)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ½cup(350 ml)
Mascarpone cheese: 0.4cup(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: to taste
Coffee beans: to taste
Dark chocolate: 1.8oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 6
Note plus 5 hours in the freezer

instructions:
To prepare the coffee parfait, first pour the coffee into a saucepan, add the sugar , stir it, and bring it to a boil, keeping an eye on the temperature. Meanwhile, transfer the yolks into the bowl of a stand mixer and start it at low speed only when the coffee syrup has almost reached a temperature of 250°F . As soon as the syrup is at the right temperature (250°F) and the yolks are frothy
pour the coffee in a thin stream and continue to whip the mixture, increasing the speed of the machine until you have obtained a firm cream and until the mixture has cooled down . At this point, whip the fresh cream , which should not be stiff but only semi-whipped.
Then add the mascarpone and mix with a spatula, using upward motions from the bottom to the top to avoid deflating it. Then add the coffee mixture ;
and mix again always from the bottom to the top . Once you have obtained a homogeneous mixture, transfer it into a pastry bag and use it to fill your glasses;
you will get 6 parfaits with these doses : they should be transferred to the freezer for at least 5 hours. When ready to serve, take them out at least 10 minutes in advance . Whip some fresh cream
transfer it into a pastry bag and set aside for a moment . Melt the dark chocolate in a bain-marie, making sure the water from the pot doesn't come into contact with the chocolate in the pot; once melted, let it cool down and use it to garnish the glasses (17-18).
Decorate with a dollop of whipped cream , a coffee bean , and serve your parfait !
The coffee parfait can be stored in the freezer for a maximum of 4-5 days, without decoration.
To add a crunchy note, sprinkle some crumbled chocolate cookies or pistachio granules on each glass!

