name:
Summer Fruit and Vegetable Gazpacho
ingredients:
Strawberries: 3.1cups(450 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 1cup(250 g)
Red peppers: 0.8cup(115 g)
Celery: 0.6cup(60 g)
Red Tropea onions: ½
Wild strawberries: ½cup(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Tabasco®: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Red Tropea onions: 0.5lb(215 g)
Rice flour: ½cup(70 g)
Sparkling water: 3.5oz(100 g)- chilled
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Natural plain yogurt: to taste
Basil: to taste
Wild strawberries: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the gazpacho, start by washing the vegetables and strawberries. Then peel the celery to remove the outer fibrous part of the stalk , then cut it into pieces . Quarter the bell pepper, remove the stem and extract the internal seeds
then cut it into cubes . Remove the leaves from the strawberries and cut them into pieces as well
move on to the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half , peel the red onion and slice it coarsely . Transfer everything into a bowl, add the wild strawberries
add a little water if needed, to make the mixture creamier , season with salt, pepper, oil and blend everything with an immersion blender .
Once a smooth and velvety consistency is obtained, season with a few drops of Tabasco , adjust salt and pepper, cover with plastic wrap and set aside in the refrigerator. Now move on to preparing the battered onions: peel the red onion, slice it to obtain rings about 1/5 inch thick , separate the rings .
Prepare a batter by mixing rice flour with sparkling water , stir to obtain a smooth mixture . Move on to frying the rings: heat the seed oil in a pan and when it has reached 340°F, dip each ring first in the batter
and then in the hot oil , cook until golden, it will only take a few moments, drain with a slotted spoon and place the rings on a tray lined with paper towels ; then lightly salt them. You can then plate: pour the gazpacho into a deep plate
garnish with a few drops of yogurt , whole wild strawberries, olive oil , pepper, and some fresh basil leaves, your gazpacho is ready to be enjoyed!
You can store the gazpacho in the refrigerator well covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for two to three days. Freezing is not recommended.
As an alternative to red onion tempura, you can use toasted bread croutons to add a crunchy note to your gazpacho!

