name:
Benedict eggs
ingredients:
Eggs: 4- very fresh
Water: to taste
White wine vinegar: 2tsp(10 g)
Clarified butter: ½cup(125 g)
Egg yolks: 2- very fresh
Shallot: 0.35oz(10 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Water: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Ground black pepper: 0.9tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: to taste
White bread loaf: 4slices
Bacon: 4slices
Smoked Salmon: 4slices
Cluster tomatoes: 1
Chives: to taste
Mixed salad: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the Benedict eggs, start with the hollandaise sauce. Take the clarified butter , melt it in a saucepan or microwave and set it aside , then squeeze the half lemon to extract the juice .
With a smooth-bladed knife, finely chop the shallot . In a saucepan, pour the vinegar, water, peppercorns, and shallot and bring the mixture to a boil .
Strain the boiled liquid, transferring it to a double boiler (or set up a classic double boiler if you don't have a saucepan with an integrated double boiler) ; ensure that the water in the container below never touches the bowl. Also, add the egg yolks to the same saucepan and, using a whisk, beat the mixture constantly over moderate heat. Salt and continue to beat the eggs until they thicken.
At this point, pour the clarified butter in a thin stream, making sure to keep beating constantly , until all the butter is incorporated and the sauce is "whipped" (this operation will take about 6 minutes). At this point, remove the saucepan from the heat and add the lemon juice. Set the sauce aside , keeping it warm, or transfer it to a bowl (at room temperature, not in the fridge). Cut discs from the bread slices with a pastry cutter with a diameter of about 2 1/2 inches ,
transfer them to a baking sheet and lightly oil the surface . Toast the bread in a static oven at 355°F for about 4 minutes until golden. Skewer the bacon slices and pass them in a static oven at 430°F for 5 minutes, so you get crispy and wavy slices. Finally, finely chop the chives and place them in a small bowl.
Lastly, dedicate yourself to cooking the eggs, so as to serve them hot. In a pot, pour the water and vinegar , heat it up, and in the meantime, crack the egg into a separate small bowl, being careful not to damage the yolk. Once the water has reached boiling, stir with a wooden spoon to create a vortex, into the center of which you will pour the whole egg . Wait for the egg to float slightly and, using a spoon, gently wrap the egg white around the egg itself .
Before removing the egg from the water, wait a couple of minutes. Lift it with a slotted spoon , place it on a plate , and repeat the same operation for the remaining eggs. Now assemble your Benedict eggs: for the salmon version, place a toasted bread crostino on a plate, lay some mixed greens, place a slice of salmon ,
and then the poached egg . Drizzle the hollandaise sauce over the egg and add chives, then pepper to taste. Now work on the bacon version: place a crostino on a plate, add a slice of tomato ,
the crispy bacon , and finally finish with the hollandaise sauce and season with pepper and chives to taste. Serve your Benedict eggs immediately .
It is recommended to consume the Benedict eggs immediately. The hollandaise sauce can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to one day.
Hollandaise sauce is difficult to make because, like most whipped sauces, it tends to "break." It is possible to use an electric whisk to beat the mixture constantly. If you don't have a saucepan with an integrated double boiler and are thus doing a classic double boiler, it is important that the base of the bowl containing the yolks never touches the boiling water; otherwise, you risk cooking the yolks.
The history of the creation of this preparation is controversial; there are indeed several legends about the origin of Benedict eggs, which spread rapidly in American restaurants starting from the second half of the 1800s. Among the most accredited stories is that of Mrs. LeGrand Benedict, who first ordered this variant of the classic eggs with bacon to vary the usual menu offered by Delmonico's Restaurant in New York. Another legendary anecdote concerns the New York broker Lemuel Benedict. It is said that one morning he presented himself at the Waldorf Hotel's restaurant asking for a hearty breakfast that he himself composed, giving life to Benedict eggs as we know them today.

