name:
Milk and Almond Tart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(245 g)
Almond flour: 2 ½cups(245 g)
Butter: 1cup(245 g)- cold
Eggs: 3.5oz(100 g)- (about 2 medium)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Whole milk: 1.67cups(400 g)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Rice flour: 0.3cup(50 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Almond slices: ½cup(50 g)
Apricot jam: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note plus the resting time for the pastry (30 minutes) and the cooling time for the cream

instructions:
To prepare the milk and almond tart, start with the pastry: pour the almond flour into a large bowl, add the sugar and all-purpose flour . Cut the cold butter into cubes, then add it along with the powders
and start kneading everything with your hands until you get a crumbly mixture . Then also add the eggs and work everything very quickly
just long enough to compact it . Transfer the dough to a work surface and shape it into a round shape , slightly flatten the dough and wrap it in plastic wrap ; place it in the refrigerator to rest for at least 30 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the cream. Pour the whole milk into a saucepan , add the sugar and heat it gently stirring , until the sugar is completely dissolved.
Also incorporate the rice flour and immediately mix with a whisk to avoid the formation of lumps . Then add an entire vanilla pod
and continue to stir until the cream has thickened . Then transfer it into a small bowl and remove the vanilla pod . If you prefer, you can rinse it and keep it; it can be reused, otherwise you can cut it open and add the seeds inside the cream. Then cover with plastic wrap in contact and let it cool in the refrigerator.
At this point, the pastry will have rested, remove the plastic wrap and cut the dough into two parts, so that you have 1/3 that you will put back in the wrap to use later and the 2/3 that you will roll out immediately on a lightly floured surface , until you get a thickness of 1/4 inch. Then sprinkle the dough with a bit of flour
and roll it around a rolling pin . It will be easier this way to transfer it to a 9 inch mold (better if with a removable bottom). Let the dough adhere well to the mold by applying light pressure with your fingers both on the bottom and on the edges
and remove the excess using a small knife . Do not throw away the scraps but add them to the pastry set aside, kneading very quickly: all will be needed to make the top layer. Prick the bottom of the tart with the tines of a fork ; then add the milk cream
and spread it evenly over the entire surface of the tart . Roll out the pastry set aside, again obtaining a thickness of 1/4 inch and as done previously, rolling it on the rolling pin, transfer it over the cream .
Always with your fingertips, press on the edge to make it adhere to the one below and again remove the excess pastry . Using the blade of a small knife, make small cuts on the surface of the tart
then brush it with apricot jam and scatter almond flakes everywhere (35-36). All that's left is to bake your tart in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 40 minutes on the lower rack.
Then take it out of the oven and let it cool completely. At this point, you can unmold and serve your milk and almond tart .
The milk and almond tart can be kept in the refrigerator for 2 days, under a glass dome.
The shortcrust pastry can be made in advance and stored in the refrigerator; alternatively, it can be frozen.
Add your touch by flavoring the cream with what you love most: fresh ginger, citrus zest, or orange blossom water?

