name:
Chicken Thighs with Yogurt
ingredients:
Chicken legs: 4
Natural plain yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Oregano: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Natural plain yogurt: ⅓cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.3tbsp(5 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Lemon peel: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Note + 30 minutes of marinating

instructions:
To prepare the chicken thighs with yogurt, start by making the marinade: in a blender cup, pour the yogurt, milk , olive oil , and peeled garlic cloves
blend everything with an immersion blender until you get a smooth sauce, then salt, pepper, and season with oregano , mix everything to flavor. Now place the chicken thighs side by side in a large bowl, cover the meat with the yogurt-based marinade , and turn them to moisten them completely.
Wrap the bowl with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator to marinate for at least 30 minutes, turning them at least once. After the resting time, heat a drizzle of olive oil in a pan , lay the thighs and cover them with the yogurt marinade .
Cook the chicken over medium heat for about 10 minutes. Once the cooking time in the pan has passed , transfer the chicken to a baking dish, season with a drizzle of olive oil and a teaspoon of oregano . Cook the chicken in a preheated static oven at 428°F (220°C) for about 20 minutes.
While the chicken bakes in the oven, take care of the accompanying sauce: pour the yogurt into a bowl, add the lemon juice , the oil, a pinch of salt, and flavor with lemon zest
Mix the sauce to flavor it . In the meantime, the chicken will be cooked, take it out of the oven and serve the chicken thighs with yogurt with the lemon-flavored sauce .
We recommend consuming the chicken thighs with yogurt immediately; you can store them without the lemon sauce in the refrigerator for a couple of days. The sauce keeps in the fridge covered with plastic wrap for a day at most. We do not recommend freezing.
The yogurt sauce can be enriched with finely chopped chives, and the lemon juice can be replaced with lime juice.

