name:
Mediterranean Eggplant Rolls
ingredients:
Eggplant: 4.2oz(120 g)- long (4 slices)
Mozzarella cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)-
Tomato purée: ¾cup(200 g)
Taggiasca olives: 0.5oz(15 g)- pitted
Basil: 4leaves
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls-
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste-

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 4 pieces

instructions:
To prepare the Mediterranean eggplant rolls, first start by making the sauce: heat the oil in a saucepan, add a clove of garlic and let it brown for 5 minutes on low heat. Once the oil is flavored, pour in the tomato pulp , add salt , pepper, and let cook for another 15 minutes.
While the tomato sauce is cooking, wash the eggplant and cut it into slices about 0.4 inches thick using a mandoline : you should get 4 long slices of uniform thickness. Heat a grill pan well and grill the eggplant slices on both sides , then transfer them to a plate or cutting board.
When the tomato sauce is ready, remove the garlic clove . Tear the mozzarella into pieces with your hands and preheat the oven to 356°F in static mode. Now you're ready to assemble the rolls: spread a layer of tomato sauce on the surface of the eggplants ,
add some shredded mozzarella , a teaspoon of olives , and a basil leaf .
Roll up the eggplants with their filling and place them in a small baking dish with the seam side down . Finally, cover the rolls with a bit of tomato sauce
and a few pieces of mozzarella . The rolls are now ready to be baked : cook them in the preheated static oven at 356°F for about 10 minutes, just enough time to melt the cheese. Once out of the oven, your Mediterranean eggplant rolls are ready to be enjoyed while still melty !
The Mediterranean eggplant rolls can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
The Mediterranean eggplant rolls are a great vegetarian appetizer, but if you want to please all your friends, you can also prepare classic Eggplant roulades stuffed with ham and caciocavallo cheese!

