name:
Bell Pepper Muffins
ingredients:
Red peppers: 1cup(250 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Sunflower seed oil: ½cup(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 3.3tsp(10 g)
Eggs: 3
Salted capers: 1 ¾tbsp(25 g)- to be desalted
Provola cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Anchovies in oil: 4fillets
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 12 pieces

instructions:
To prepare the bell pepper muffins, first wash the peppers, then peel them and trim them . Cut the pepper in half and remove the inner filaments and seeds ;
first cut it into strips and then into small cubes . Transfer them to a skillet and gently sauté without adding fats for about 4 minutes . Set aside and let them cool down.
Meanwhile, drain the anchovy fillets and chop them very finely , rinse the capers under running water several times to desalinate them; dry them and chop them finely as well . Also cut the provola cheese into cubes . Set aside these ingredients as well and move on to make the batter.
Break the eggs into a bowl and add the milk . Work the mixture with a mixer for 2-3 minutes at medium speed then, while continuing to beat, add the oil . Season with salt and pepper.
As soon as you have a well-beaten mixture, sift the flour directly into the bowl and incorporate it with the mixer at moderate speed . Also add the instant yeast
and the grated Parmesan cheese . Then add the chopped capers (17-18),
the peppers , the anchovies , and the provola cubes .
Stir with a wooden spoon to blend the ingredients . Grease a 12-cup muffin tin with oil and fill the portions with one and a half tablespoons of batter .
At this point bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F on the lowest rack for about 35 minutes. When they are golden brown, take them out of the oven . Then let them cool slightly before removing your bell pepper muffins !
Store the muffins in the fridge in an airtight container for up to 2 days.
Alternatively, you can freeze them cooked for about 1 month.
If you prefer, you can bake the peppers in a preheated static oven at 482°F for 30 minutes. Just peel them before cutting them into cubes.

