name:
Pasta with pea pods
ingredients:
5-grain fusilli pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Peas: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- fresh, needs to be shelled
Red peppers: 1
Burrata cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Shallot: 1
White wine: 1oz(30 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2tsp(10 g)
Basil: 6leaves
Water: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pasta with pea pods, first preheat the oven to 464°F in fan mode. Wash the whole pods, then shell the peas and set aside the pods , from which you will later remove the stem ; in total you will need 100 g (3.5 oz) of shelled peas and 200 g (7 oz) of pods. Peel the shallot and slice it thinly .
Heat a drizzle of oil in a large pan, add the shallot and let it fry gently for a few minutes. Add the peas and let them brown for a couple of minutes, then deglaze with the white wine and continue cooking for about 10 minutes.
In the meantime, pour a drizzle of oil into a high-sided saucepan, add the pods and cover them with water . Add the basil leaves , salt, cover with a lid and let simmer for 15-20 minutes.
While the pods are cooking, wash and dry the whole bell pepper, then place it on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper; season it with oil , salt, and pepper and bake in the preheated fan oven at 464°F for at least 20 minutes. Meanwhile, bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. When the pods are cooked and the water in the saucepan has reduced by at least a third, transfer them to a tall and narrow container .
Add a ladle of the cooking water from the pods , add the fresh cream and blend with an immersion blender to turn them into cream, then adjust the salt.
Strain the cream obtained through a fine-mesh strainer to achieve a smooth and velvety consistency, then cover it with plastic wrap in contact and set it aside at room temperature. When the bell pepper is cooked , transfer it to a cutting board and remove the stem along with the internal seeds.
Cut the bell pepper in half and remove the skin , then cut it into strips . Meanwhile, the water for the pasta will have come to a boil, so add the fusilli and cook them for the time indicated on the package.
At this point, put the pan with the peas back on the stove, add the bell pepper strips and cook them over low heat for about ten minutes. When the pasta is al dente, drain it directly into the pan with the peas and peppers , season with pepper and sauté briefly to mix it with the sauce, adding a ladle of cooking water if necessary , then turn off the heat.
Distribute the velvety pea pod cream on serving plates, add the pasta seasoned with peppers and peas and complete with a few threads of burrata . Drizzle with a little oil and a grind of pepper, and your pasta with pea pods is ready to be served !
Pasta with pea pods can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for about 4 days. Freezing is not recommended. If you wish, you can freeze the pea pod cream, but keep in mind that the color will darken due to oxidation.
As an alternative to burrata, you can opt for another soft cheese like stracchino, or for one with a firmer texture, such as baked ricotta. If you want to play with fragrances, you can replace the basil leaves with mint and add a grating of lemon zest at the end!

