name:
Black Forest Tiramisu
ingredients:
Ladyfingers: 10.6oz(300 g)- (about 28)
Cherries: 1.67cups(250 g)- sweet cherries
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Kirsch liqueur: 2.5oz(75 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.85cup(200 g)
Sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)
Cherries: 6- duroni type
Dark chocolate: 1.8oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 6
Cost: High
Note + 2 h for setting in the fridge

instructions:
To prepare the Black Forest tiramisu, start with the cream. In a bowl, pour in the cold cream from the refrigerator, add the sugar , and start the beaters at medium speed and then a bit higher. This way, it will whip perfectly to stiff peaks . Then work the mascarpone with a spatula for a few moments, so it softens .
Add the whipped cream a little at a time . With the first spoonful, you can soften the mascarpone, and for the rest, you can fold it in more delicately . Once everything is combined, pour into a piping bag with a flower nozzle and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes .
Meanwhile, take care of the cherries. Briefly rinse and dry them , then cut them into four parts, removing the stem and seed . Pour into a non-stick pan along with the sugar, turn on the burner to medium temperature and let it heat for a few minutes .
As soon as you notice the juice coming out of the cherries, add the liqueur: be very careful of the potential flare-up . When the alcohol has evaporated, add the water and bring to a boil, then turn off the heat .
Pour the cherries into a strainer and collect the hot juice, letting it cool for a few moments . In the meantime, make sure the ladyfingers fit perfectly in the 10x6 inch adjustable frame placed on a plate (alternatively, a rectangular mold will work as well), so adjust a portion of the cookies so they fit without difficulty . Start soaking the ladyfingers one at a time, being careful not to soak them too much, and distribute them around the perimeter .
On the base, form a layer of cream and sprinkle with the sautéed cherries . Finally, make another layer of ladyfingers, soaking them in the remaining warm liquid, but this time placing them in the opposite direction of the initial layer .
Apply light pressure with the palms of your hands to compact well and finally cover the surface with a little more cream . Level with a spatula to create a smooth surface and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours; keep the remaining cream in the fridge as well .
Remove the frame and proceed with decoration. Retrieve the cream from the fridge and pipe 6 tufts, spacing them apart, imagining dividing the dessert into 6 servings . Grate the chocolate with a vegetable peeler
and sprinkle the tuftless part with the curls . Finally, decorate the tufts with fresh cherries . And here is your delicious and scenic Black Forest tiramisu ready !
The Black Forest tiramisu can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, covered with plastic wrap. You can also freeze the dessert, preferably already cut into portions.
Out of the cherry season, no more Black Forest tiramisu? Remedy with canned sour cherries, you'll need about double. Alternatively, you can prepare a simple Tiramisu with whipped cream , rich and creamy!

