name:
Asparagus and Speck Risotto
ingredients:
Asparagus: 9.9oz(280 g)
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Yellow onions: 1
Speck: 1.8oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Butter: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- to grate
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the asparagus and speck risotto, start by preparing a light Vegetable broth following our recipe, taking care to salt it just right so you don't have to add extra salt during the rice cooking. Now move on to cleaning the asparagus: remove the harder, lighter end , cut off the tips and split them lengthwise and set them aside , then cut the asparagus into small rounds .
Peel and finely chop the onion . Heat the olive oil in a pot, add the chopped onion and let it wilt over moderate heat for at least 5 minutes. At this point, add the rice , and toast it for a few minutes or until it becomes translucent.
Now add the asparagus rounds and continue cooking by adding hot vegetable broth one ladle at a time until the rice is cooked; it will take about 18 minutes in total. While the rice is cooking, cut the speck into small strips
Sauté the speck in a pan with a drizzle of oil for a few minutes until it's crispy (10-11) and set it aside. In another pan, sauté the asparagus tips with a drizzle of oil
until they are slightly golden and also set these aside . Meanwhile, the rice will be cooked, turn off the heat and stir in grated cheese and butter cut into pieces .
Stir to flavor and add only part of the speck , pepper and adjust salt if necessary, mix and distribute the asparagus and speck risotto onto serving plates; garnish with more speck strips and asparagus tips before serving it hot!
Store the asparagus and speck risotto in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Lemon zest can also be added to the risotto, and if you like stronger flavors, you can stir in some pecorino cheese.

