name:
Chocolate Baskets
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 14.1oz(400 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + cooling time (about 30 minutes)

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate baskets, the first thing to do is temper the chocolate using seeding. To do this, finely chop the chocolate and transfer 9.3 oz into a double boiler . Stir until completely melted ;
at this stage, it is important to reach a temperature of 129°F. Alternatively, you can melt the chocolate in the microwave, running it for a few seconds at a time and stirring to avoid burning the chocolate. Even in this case, check the temperature, which should always reach 129°F. Then remove the double boiler from the heat and add the remaining chopped chocolate . Stir until it melts
and continue stirring to cool it down; it should reach a temperature of about 89°F. Then transfer the tempered chocolate into another bowl. At this point, take a single-serving aluminum mold and dip the base into the chocolate . Make sure to cover about half of the mold. Then remove it from the chocolate and gently tap it to remove excess chocolate. At this point, turn it upside down on a tray and repeat the same operation for the others .
Wait about ten minutes, and when they no longer feel sticky to the touch, repeat the same operation as before, dipping them a second time in the chocolate and removing the excess. If the chocolate has cooled, heat it for a few moments in the microwave. With the second pass, you will get thicker baskets. At this point, place them back on the tray, still upside down . Wait until your chocolate baskets have completely solidified , which will take at least 30 minutes.
At this point, gently pinch the mold inward; this will make it easier to remove . Do the same for all the others; your chocolate baskets are now ready to fill (14-15).
The chocolate baskets can be stored at room temperature for 10 days.
You can also make the baskets with milk chocolate or white chocolate, just follow the temperatures indicated on our How to temper sheet.

