name:
Strawberry Streusel
ingredients:
Butter: ½cup(125 g)
Sugar: 0.67cup(125 g)
Almond flour: 1.3cups(125 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Lemons: 1- (juice and zest)
Strawberries: 2 ¾cups(400 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the strawberry streusel, start with the dough. In the bowl of a stand mixer, or you can work by hand or with a hand mixer, add the softened butter (between room temperature and cold). Then add the sugar , a pinch of salt, and the grated lemon zest . Turn on the paddle attachment at low speed, just enough to combine the ingredients .
Then add the almond flour and all-purpose flour all at once. Once all ingredients are well mixed, turn off the machine .
and pour it onto the work surface to briefly compact it with your hands . Form a rectangular block and wrap it in plastic wrap. Let it cool in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour: it is important that it becomes firm . In the meantime, prepare the compote. Quickly rinse and dry the strawberries .
Remove the stems and cut them into small pieces . Place them in a saucepan and add the sugar .
Squeeze the lemon from which you grated the zest and pour it into the saucepan . Turn on the stove and let it cook for 30 minutes over medium heat, stirring occasionally . At the end of cooking, the consistency should be sticky and thick .
Pour into a bowl with a sieve and strain to remove the seeds , let it cool completely at room temperature . Take the dough and divide it into 2 parts: one larger and one smaller. Crumble two-thirds with a large-holed grater (you can also do this by hand) on a sheet of parchment paper .
Then pour into a 13.8x4.3 inch pan, forming the base . Pour the now-cooled jelly over this and cover by grating the remaining one-third of the dough .
You can proceed to baking. The dessert bakes in a preheated oven at 340°F for 50 minutes . Once baked, let the strawberry streusel cool completely before removing from the pan and cutting into rectangles . If you like, you can serve it with a scoop of ice cream !
The strawberry streusel dough can be safely stored in the fridge for a week. Once baked, you can keep it fresh away from humidity for 4-5 days. The dough can be frozen. The baked streusel can also be frozen in portions, just defrost and heat it up before enjoying!
The almond flour makes the streusel dough balanced and flavorful. For an even more flavorful version, you could replace it with walnut or hazelnut flour, or make a nice mix of all three! If you don't have a large-holed grater, crumble the dough by hand for a more rustic result. When pouring the jelly, add some wild strawberries sautéed with a tablespoon of sugar: this will make your strawberry streusel more fragrant and rich!
The streusel dough (pronounced strois'l ) is a typical German topping that is crumbled over various sweet bases like muffins, cakes, and tarts. It can be likened to any shortcrust pastry, in this case without eggs. The absence of eggs characterizes its crumbly consistency, perfect for covering or serving as a dessert base. In German, it's called streuselkuchen and is a sweet focaccia. It's sprinkled with fruits like apples, grapes, sour cherries, and rhubarb, and finally covered with streusel crumbs. In our version, we decided to simplify the thickness and the name, using only the crumbs as the base and covering for the strawberry compote.

