name:
Stuffed Eggs with Fragrant Breadcrumbs
ingredients:
Eggs: 4
Homemade bread: ½slice
Mascarpone cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)
Thyme: 3sprigs
Fresh ginger: 1tsp
Chives: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 8 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Note + the cooling time for the hard-boiled eggs

instructions:
To prepare the stuffed eggs with fragrant breadcrumbs, first, place the whole eggs in a small pot filled with cold water and cook for 8 minutes after the water starts boiling . While the eggs are cooking, prepare the fragrant breadcrumbs: cut a slice from the loaf , divide it in half, and cut it into rather small cubes .
Heat a drizzle of oil in a non-stick pan, add the bread cubes , season with pepper and thyme leaves , and toast over low heat for a few minutes until the bread is well golden, making sure not to burn it .
When the eggs are hard-boiled , drain and let them cool completely. In the meantime, you can prepare the ingredients for the filling: finely chop the chives , then pour the mascarpone into a bowl and add the freshly grated ginger .
Once the eggs have cooled, carefully peel them, then cut a small piece of white off the lower end using a smooth-bladed knife ; this way, the eggs will have a stable base. Also cut off the top end of the egg and gently remove the yolk, being careful not to damage the white part you'll use as a container .
Add the yolks to the mascarpone and ginger mixture and mix thoroughly with a spoon, then add a pinch of salt and the chopped chives and mix again to obtain a smooth and uniform mixture .
Transfer the yolk and mascarpone cream into a pastry bag and fill the hollowed eggs . Sprinkle the surface with the golden bread cubes, crumbling them slightly between your fingers , and decorate with a sprig of chives. Your stuffed eggs with fragrant breadcrumbs are ready to be served !
The stuffed eggs with fragrant breadcrumbs can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
To soften the flavor of the cream and make it even more velvety, try adding 10 grams of whole yogurt!

