name:
Mescafrancesca potatoes and fish
ingredients:
Mixed Pasta: 1 ½cup(220 g)
Potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Carrots: 1.5oz(40 g)
Celery: 1.4oz(40 g)
Onions: 1.4oz(40 g)
Shrimp bisque  (Fumetto di crostacei): 2cups(500 g)
Fish fumet: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Octopus: 0.9lb(400 g)- (already cleaned)
Mussels: 7oz(200 g)
Clams: 7.1oz(200 g)- (already purged)
Calamari (squid): 4.2oz(120 g)- (to clean)
Seabass fillets: 3.5oz(100 g)
Shrimps: 2.5oz(70 g)- (to clean)
Carrots: ½cup(50 g)
Celery: 1.75oz(50 g)
Onions: 1.75oz(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Candied lemon: 0.75oz(20 g)
Lemon juice: 2 ¾tbsp(40 g)
Parsley: 5- (the stems)
Wild fennel: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the mescafrancesca potatoes and fish, start with the octopus: bring a pot of water to a boil to which you have added coarsely chopped carrot, celery, and onion, then submerge the octopus and cook for 40 minutes. After this time, drain the octopus and let it cool in a separate bowl . For further details, you can refer to the guide " How to Clean and Cook Octopus ".
In the meantime, take care of the shellfish: clean the mussels and clams (for more information, you can refer to our guides " How to Clean and Open Mussels " and " How to clean clams "). In a large pan, flavor the oil with parsley stems and a clove of garlic , then add the mussels and clams . Pour in a little water and cook on high heat, shaking the pan frequently.
As the shells open, remove the shellfish with tongs and set them aside. Once they have all opened, strain the cooking liquid through a chinois . At this point, shell the mussels and clams and keep the mollusks in the strained cooking liquid .
Move on to cleaning the other fish: remove the skin from the sea bass fillet and cut it first into strips and then into cubes .
Clean the squid (for more information, you can refer to the guide "How to Clean Squid"). Cut the squid mantle lengthwise to open it , then scrape the inside with the back of a knife to clean it and remove the thin skin . Cut the squid into strips and then into regular pieces .
Clean the shrimp (for more information, you can refer to the guide " How to clean shrimp ") and cut the flesh into pieces of the same size . Finally, cut 100 g of cooked octopus into pieces . Transfer the sea bass, squid, shrimp, and octopus to a bowl, then add the shelled mussels and clams with their liquid .
Finely chop the candied lemon and add it to the bowl with the fish and shellfish , then also season with the fennel and basil cut into julienne strips . Finally, dress with lemon juice and a drizzle of oil, mix well, and set aside.
Now focus on the potatoes: peel them and cut them first into slices and then into sticks . Cut the central sticks into cubes of more regular shape , and mince the side parts instead .
Peel and dice the carrots , celery , and onion into brunoise.
You can now proceed with cooking: heat the oil in a large saucepan, then add the vegetables for the sauté and brown over low heat for about ten minutes. At this point, add the potatoes to the sauté and salt .
Pour in the fish stock and shellfish stock and cook over medium heat for about 15-20 minutes. Meanwhile, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the mixed pasta for about 4 minutes .
Drain the pasta, transfer it to the saucepan , and cook for about another 5 minutes . When the pasta is al dente and the potatoes are soft and creamy, turn off the heat and wait for the boil to subside, then add all the fish .
Mix well , cover with the lid , and let it rest for a minute. Your mescafrancesca potatoes and fish is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the mescafrancesca potatoes and fish immediately.
If you prefer, you can customize the mescafrancesca with other types of fish, shellfish, and seafood, such as sea bream and prawns, for example!
The candied lemon imparts acidity, savoriness, and sweetness to the preparation, but if you don't have it, you can garnish the final dish with some grated lemon zest.
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not fully cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at -0.4 degrees Fahrenheit in a home freezer marked with 3 or more stars, according to the health ministry guidelines .

