name:
Coconut and Lemon Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 5- at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 0.6cup(75 g)
Potato starch: 9.3tbsp(75 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Whole milk: 1.7cups(400 g)
Cornstarch: 3tbsp(45 g)
Sugar: 0.7cup(140 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Gelatin in sheets: 0.1oz(4 g)
Lemons: 1
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(200 g)
Coconut: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 55 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note plus the cooling time for the cream and sponge cake

instructions:
To prepare the coconut and lemon cake, start by making the Sponge cake . Transfer the eggs into the bowl of a stand mixer, add the vanilla bean seeds and a pinch of salt, and start whisking at medium speed. Meanwhile, add the sugar slowly and whip the eggs for about 15 minutes until they are thick and frothy.
Then turn off the machine and sift the flour and potato starch directly into the bowl . Then gently mix with circular motions from bottom to top . Once you have a uniform mixture, transfer it into a previously buttered and floured 9.5-inch mold .
Gently level the surface without banging the mold on the counter and bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F on the lowest rack for about 50 minutes. Avoid opening the oven during this time, and before taking the cake out, always check the cooking with the toothpick test, as every oven bakes differently. In fact, inserting the toothpick into the center of the cake, it should come out completely dry. Once baked, remove the sponge cake and let it cool . In the meantime, prepare the cream. First, heat the milk in a saucepan until it's close to boiling. Place the egg yolks in a bowl and add the sugar
and quickly mix with a whisk . Sift the starch directly into the bowl and mix again to combine the ingredients .
As soon as the milk is hot, pour it into the egg yolk mixture and whisk quickly . Pour everything back into the saucepan
and stirring continuously, cook the cream until it thickens . Place it in a small bowl and cover with cling film . Meanwhile, soak the gelatin sheets in cold water, and once softened, squeeze them
and add them to the cream , which should not be boiling but still warm. Then add the juice and grated lemon zest .
Mix well to combine everything, cover again with the film , and let it cool completely. Once the cream is cold, whip the cream . Then add the cream to the whipped cream in two portions
mixing with a spatula from bottom to top , to avoid deflating the mixture. Once you have a fluffy cream , transfer it into a piping bag and store it in the refrigerator.
In the meantime, the sponge cake will have cooled; unmold it and clean it from the outer crust, both around the circumference and on the surface .
Using a long serrated knife, cut the sponge cake into 3 disks of the same thickness . Place the first on a serving plate and spread about 1/3 of the cream evenly over it . Cover with the second layer of sponge cake
and add another layer of cream . Place the last disk and spread the remaining cream both on the surface and the edges , and using a spatula, level the cream
so that it covers the entire cake . Slice the coconut very thinly and use it to decorate the cake . Place your coconut and lemon cake in the refrigerator until ready to serve!
The coconut and lemon cake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. The sponge cake can be frozen after baking.
If you prefer, you can prepare the sponge cake and cream a day in advance.
For an even more exotic touch, you can use lime instead of lemon!

