name:
Nutella Panzerotti
ingredients:
Water: 2.4cups(570 g)- warm
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Manitoba flour: 4cups(500 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.1oz(3 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Sugar: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 3 ½tsp(20 g)
Nutella: 7.1oz(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Vegetable oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus 2 hours and 30 minutes of rising time

instructions:
To make Nutella turnovers, pour the all-purpose flour and Manitoba flour into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a hook, then add the crumbled fresh yeast . Turn on the mixer and slowly pour in half of the lukewarm water . Add the salt and sugar, and finish with the remaining water.
Once the water is finished, also pour in the olive oil . Turn on the mixer at medium speed until the dough is smooth and wraps around the hook. At this point, transfer the dough to a work surface , and knead it with your hands to form a spherical shape .
Place the dough in a large bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise for 2 hours in a turned-off oven with the light on (the turned-off oven with the light on ensures a controlled and constant temperature of about 75-78°F). After the rising time, take the dough that has doubled in volume , and using a dough scraper, divide it into 20 pieces of about 2.8 ounces each, and shape the pieces into balls .

Place them on a tray, cover with plastic wrap, and let them rise for another 30 minutes, still in a turned-off oven with the light on. While the balls are rising, heat the cream in a small saucepan , then pour it over the Nutella .
and mix to combine the ingredients . Once the balls have finished rising, roll them out on a work surface with a rolling pin to make discs about 6 inches in diameter . Place a tablespoon of filling in the center .
and fold the discs in half to form the typical half-moon shape of the turnover . Fold the edge with your fingers to better seal the turnovers and prevent the filling from leaking out during cooking. Once the turnovers are made, proceed with frying: heat the seed oil in a pot, once it reaches a temperature of about 320-340°F (to be measured with a kitchen thermometer), immerse the turnovers a few at a time and cook them for 2 minutes on each side, gently turning them with a slotted spoon.
When cooking is complete, drain the turnovers on a tray lined with paper towels to absorb excess oil. Let the Nutella turnovers cool slightly and then they will be ready to enjoy, sprinkled with granulated sugar .
We recommend eating the Nutella turnovers immediately and not storing them after cooking. It is possible to freeze the raw dough.
Want to try the baked version? Brush the surface with a beaten egg and bake in a static oven at 375°F for 20 minutes or until they are well golden.

