name:
Tacos with meat
ingredients:
Tacos: 8
Beef: 1.1lbs(500 g)- eye of round
Yellow onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Blond beer: 1 ½cup(330 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.6tbsp(25 g)
Cumin: 1spoonful- powdered
Coriander: 1spoonful- powdered
Smoked paprika: 1spoonful
Fine salt: 1spoonful
Black pepper: 1spoonful
Cluster tomatoes: 7.1oz(200 g)
Fresh scallion: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Green spicy Peperoncino: 2tsp(10 g)
Parsley: 1bunch
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Lime juice: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Sour cream: ½cup(100 g)
Greek yogurt: ¼cup(50 g)
Tabasco®: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 1 full night of marinating the meat (alternatively at least 6 hours)

instructions:
To prepare the tacos with meat, start by cutting the beef into fairly large chunks , then place them in a baking dish and add the ingredients for the marinade: the coriander and ground cumin ,
the smoked paprika , extra virgin olive oil , salt, and pepper, mix well and cover with plastic wrap, then let it marinate in the refrigerator overnight (or at least 6 hours). When you need to cook it, remember to take it out of the fridge at least half an hour before!
After the marinating time, take the meat out of the refrigerator and let it sit at room temperature for at least half an hour. In the meantime, preheat the oven to 392°F (convection mode), then clean and slice the onions into thin wedges . Heat the oil in a pan suitable for oven cooking, add the onion and brown over medium heat for 5 minutes. Add the marinated meat at room temperature ,
mix well and brown it over medium heat for 10 minutes, stirring frequently . At this point, pour in the beer , cover with the lid and transfer the pan to the preheated convection oven at 392°F. The meat will need to cook for about 75 minutes or until the liquid has evaporated, so check occasionally to prevent it from burning.
While the meat is cooking, you can prepare the tomato salad and the accompanying sauce: wash the tomatoes and cut them into very small cubes . Clean the spring onion by removing the root and the outer layer , then slice it into rounds .
Now wash the chili, cut it in half lengthwise to remove the seeds , and chop it into pieces . Finally, chop the parsley
and squeeze the lime juice : you will need 2 tablespoons. In a bowl, combine the tomato cubes, chili, spring onion , lime juice ,
extra virgin olive oil and chopped parsley , add salt, mix, and set aside .
For the spicy yogurt sauce, combine the Greek yogurt with sour cream in a separate bowl , add a few drops of Tabasco , mix and place the sauce in the refrigerator until ready to use .
When the meat is cooked, take it out of the oven and check that it is tender enough to shred easily . At this point, you are ready to assemble the tacos: take the ready-made tacos, fill them with the meat, add a spoonful of tomato salad , and top with the yogurt sauce: your tacos with meat are ready to be enjoyed !
The tacos with meat can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days, but it is recommended to assemble and consume them immediately to prevent the tacos from losing their crunchiness.
Feel free to fill the tacos with the ingredients you like the most, even local ones like turnip greens.
Do you prefer mayonnaise and ketchup over yogurt and sour cream sauce?
And for a side, there's nothing better than Mexican Beans !
But if you don't have enough time, there's no need to change the menu... we have a last-minute solution for your needs: Quick Tacos !

