name:
Beetroot Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Precooked beets: 0.6lb(260 g)
Greek yogurt: ⅓cup(100 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Dry white wine: 2tbsp(30 g)
Shallot: 1
Thyme: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the beetroot risotto, first prepare a Vegetable broth Keep it warm, then cut 220 g (about 8 oz) of beetroots (we used precooked ones) into slices , then place them in the tall glass of the immersion blender, pour a ladle of hot vegetable broth , and blend until you get a puree .
Clean and dice the shallot finely ; in a large pot, add the shallot and 20 g (about 1 1/2 tbsp) of olive oil , let it brown for a few minutes, stirring often, then add the rice and let it toast for about 3 minutes.
Once the rice is toasted, deglaze with the white wine and once the alcohol has completely evaporated, add the hot vegetable broth one ladle at a time , continuing to moisten it every time the liquid dries up, making sure to stir it often with a wooden spoon. After about 10 minutes of cooking, add half of the beetroot puree .
Salt the risotto and continue cooking for another 5 minutes, always adding broth as needed, then add the remaining puree and stir. Finish cooking the risotto, it will take about another 5 minutes, once ready, turn off the heat and stir in about 10 g (about 2 tsp) of olive oil .
Everything is ready to serve: cut the remaining 40 g (about 1 1/2 oz) of beetroot into cubes , then distribute the rice on the plates, garnish with Greek yogurt, spreading it in dollops with a spoon . Scent the dish with fresh thyme leaves and serve your beetroot risotto immediately .
Beetroot risotto can be stored in the refrigerator covered with cling film for a maximum of one day. We do not recommend freezing.
If there is leftover rice, you can regenerate it by making a tasty fried rice or by making simple supplì to be seasoned as desired with some melting cheese. To stir the risotto at the end of cooking, as an alternative to oil and yogurt, you can also use a knob of butter and grated Parmesan.

