name:
Chocolate potato cake
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 7oz(200 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 6 ½tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: 0.67cup(150 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 6.7tbsp(100 g)
Eggs: 5.8oz(165 g)- (about 3 medium)
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Butter: to taste
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(220 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Sugar: 0.3cup(80 g)
Baileys: 0.7oz(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate potato cake, first boil the potato in plenty of cold water until it's soft enough to be pierced with a fork: it will take about 25-30 minutes. Meanwhile, separate the egg yolks from the whites, placing them in 2 separate bowls. Add the sugar to the yolks and work with an electric whisk until you get a light and frothy mixture , then set it aside.
Now take the bowl with the egg whites and whip them to stiff peaks with the electric whisk until they reach a firm consistency , then store them in the refrigerator. As soon as the potato is well cooked, drain it and let it cool, then peel it .
Cut the potato into chunks and mash it in a bowl using a potato masher . Preheat the oven to static mode at 350°F, then melt the butter in a saucepan and let it cool. Finally, chop the dark chocolate with a knife and melt it in the microwave, operating it a few seconds at a time and being careful not to burn it .
At this point, take the yolk mixture you set aside, add the mashed potatoes , and mix with the electric whisk. While keeping it running, also add the milk , the cream ,
the melted butter , and the cooled melted chocolate . Work the mixture with the whisk until you get a smooth and uniform consistency .
Now sift the flour , baking powder , and unsweetened cocoa powder into the bowl
and mix again with the whisk to incorporate all the ingredients . Retrieve the whipped egg whites from the refrigerator and fold them into the mixture , gently mixing with a spatula from bottom to top to incorporate them .
Butter a 20 cm springform pan , pour the cake batter inside , and level the surface , then bake in the preheated static oven at 350°F for about 60 minutes, placing the pan on the lowest rack.
While the cake is baking, you can prepare the accompanying cream: pour the fresh cream into a bowl, add the sugar , and whip it to soft peaks with the electric whisk . In a separate bowl, work the mascarpone with a spatula to soften it ,
then add the whipped cream and gently mix by moving the spatula from bottom to top to incorporate it until you get a cream with a smooth and uniform consistency .
At this point, add the Baileys and mix again with the spatula to blend it into the cream .
When the cake is cooked (check with a skewer test), remove it from the oven and let it cool in the pan , then transfer it to a serving plate . Serve your chocolate potato cake with a generous dollop of Baileys cream !
The chocolate potato cake can be stored out of the refrigerator, under a glass cover, for 3 days. You can store the Baileys cream in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for 2-3 days. If desired, you can freeze the already cooked cake and cut it into slices.
To avoid compromising the success of the cake, make sure the potatoes are completely cold before adding them to the batter. If you want to follow the traditional Irish recipe, you can cover the chocolate potato cake with a delicious Ganache cream ! If you want to make a layered cake, instead, you could fill it with the Baileys cream used as an accompaniment, taking care to store the cake in the refrigerator afterward to give it time to set.

