name:
Cloud Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 8oz(225 g)- 5 medium (at room temperature)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(75 g)
Potato starch: ½cup(75 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Whole milk: 1.67cups(400 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Cornstarch: 10tbsp(40 g)
Egg whites: ¾cup(200 g)
Sugar: 1 ¾cup(350 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 55 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the cloud cake, first prepare the base by following our Sponge cake recipe. Pour the eggs into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment, add the seeds of the vanilla bean and a pinch of salt . Then start the mixer at medium speed and begin to work the mixture, slowly adding the sugar while the mixer is running: you should work the mixture for about 15-20 minutes . Meanwhile, butter and flour a 9-inch diameter cake pan and preheat the oven to 320°F in static mode. As soon as the mixture becomes fluffy and foamy, stop the mixer .
Sift both the flour and the cornstarch into the bowl of the stand mixer and gently fold everything together with a spatula using upward strokes, so as not to deflate the mixture. Pour everything into the mold and use a spatula to level the surface . Bake the Sponge Cake in a preheated static oven at 320°F on the lowest rack for about 50 minutes (perform the toothpick test at the end of cooking to verify that the cake is well-cooked). Then take it out of the oven and let it cool completely.
In the meantime, prepare the cream: pour the milk into a saucepan and heat it over low heat. Once hot and still on the burner, add the granulated sugar , the seeds of a vanilla bean , and the cornstarch .
Mix everything with a hand whisk to avoid forming lumps, and as soon as it starts to thicken, turn off the heat (or remove the pan from the heat) and stir vigorously with a spatula . Pour the cream into a bowl , cover with cling film in contact with the surface, and let it cool first at room temperature and then in the refrigerator.
At this point, pour the fresh liquid cream into a bowl and whip it with an electric whisk until stiff peaks form . When the milk cream is thoroughly chilled, add the whipped cream
and gently fold it in with a spatula, always using upward strokes, until completely incorporated . Transfer the cream into a piping bag with a plain nozzle and set it aside in the refrigerator. Now proceed with the preparation of the Swiss meringue, which will serve as the cloud cake's topping: fill a saucepan three-quarters full with water and heat it over low heat .
Place a bowl on top and pour in the egg whites ; whisk the egg whites with a hand whisk, gradually adding the sugar . At this stage, it's necessary to use a food thermometer to monitor the temperature of the egg whites. Once the egg whites reach 140°F, remove the bowl from the saucepan, place it on a work surface, and continue to beat them with an electric whisk at medium and consistent speed until cool.
You should whip them to very stiff peaks; the meringue should be glossy and firm . Transfer the meringue into a disposable piping bag with a plain nozzle. Meanwhile, the Sponge Cake will be baked and cooled , and you can unmold it. Use a knife to remove the top layer, the darker part , trying to minimize waste.
Then divide it into 3 equal discs: for this operation, we recommend consulting our guide How to cut Sponge Cake . With a long serrated knife, make a scoring along the circumference to define the first line to cut, then insert the knife and cut the first disc, trying to keep the blade always parallel to the base . Repeat this operation for the second disc. Place the base on a serving plate , fill the first layer with the milk cream
Spread evenly with the spatula , then place the second sponge cake disc, fill again with cream, and complete the cake with the third disc . Now proceed with the meringue covering: distribute the meringue with the piping bag using a plain nozzle both on the cake's edge
and on the surface. Spread on both the top and the edge to create a wavy decorative effect . Your cloud cake is ready to be enjoyed!
The cloud cake keeps in the refrigerator for up to a couple of days. You can prepare the Sponge Cake in advance and store it under a glass dome for about 2 days, or if you prefer, you can freeze it for a few weeks.
Do you want to break the total white effect and make this delight even more indulgent? You can serve the cloud cake slices with a luscious How to prepare coulis ! This cake is so soft that it doesn't need to be soaked, but if you want to give it a special flavor, you can use your favorite syrup.

