name:
Savory Bread Pie
ingredients:
Stale bread: 3 ¼cups(250 g)
Curly endive: 3cups(150 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 3
Mozzarella cheese: 2 ¼cups(250 g)
Breadcrumbs: 0.85cup(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.67cups(400 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)- to grate
Eggs: 1
Lemon peel: 1
Fennel seeds: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the savory bread pie, first coarsely chop the stale bread and place it in a bowl, pour the cream over it and let it soak for at least 10 minutes, the necessary time for the bread to absorb the liquid and soften. Once ready ,
transfer the softened bread to a mixer bowl, add the grated cheese , breadcrumbs , and the egg .
Blend everything until you get a smooth mixture and set aside. Now separate the escarole florets from the final part of the stem and wash them under running water , then dry them. Slice the mozzarella
and also the tomatoes . Now preheat the oven to 375°F in static mode and take a 14 x 11 inch rectangular baking pan, grease it with olive oil , then evenly distribute the bread mixture over the entire pan, pressing it with your fingers to compact it .
Once the base is ready , start filling by adding the ingredients in layers: start with part of the escarole , some slices of mozzarella
and tomatoes, then salt, pepper, and flavor with fennel seeds and lemon zest , finally drizzle with a little olive oil .
At this point, make a second layer: lay the escarole and continue with all the ingredients in the same order until they are all used up. Bake the bread pie at 375°F in the preheated static oven for 30 minutes. After 30 minutes, remove the pan from the oven and add an additional handful of breadcrumbs, about 3/4 oz, spreading it over the surface of the pie . This operation serves to absorb any water released by the mozzarella during cooking. Continue baking for another 15-20 minutes. Once cooking is finished, take the savory bread pie out of the oven, let it cool slightly, and then cut it into slices to enjoy !
The savory bread pie keeps in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. It is possible to freeze the preparation once cooked.
It is recommended to use low-fat pizza mozzarella, as it is drier and will release less liquid during cooking. The vegetables can be comfortably replaced based on taste and seasonality, and you can enrich the savory bread pie with other tantalizing ingredients such as ham, capers, and olives.

