name:
Chicken and Avocado Soup
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 0.9lb(400 g)
Avocado: 1
Cluster tomatoes: 7oz(200 g)
Celery: 1 ½cup(160 g)
Potatoes: 3.5oz(100 g)
Carrots: 2oz(50 g)
Fresh ginger: 0.7oz(20 g)
Lime: 1
Red onions: 1
Garlic: 2cloves
Sweet Peperoncino: 1- long
Green sweet Peperoncino: 1- long
Coriander: 1bunch- fresh
Water: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Lime: 2
Powdered turmeric: 1tsp- about
Cloves: 1tsp- about
Juniper berries: 4
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.3tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + at least 20 min. for the chicken marination

instructions:
To prepare the chicken and avocado soup, first, get all the vegetables ready: wash the celery and remove the outer strings using a peeler , then cut it into small pieces . Peel the red onion and slice it thinly ,
then peel the garlic cloves and cut them in half lengthwise . Peel the carrots and cut them into sticks first and then into cubes .
Now take the tomatoes, remove the skin with a paring knife , then cut them in half and remove the stem; divide the halves into wedges and remove the internal flesh with the seeds , then slice them thinly .
Peel the potato and divide it in half first crosswise , then lengthwise , then cut it into thin slices .
Peel the ginger with the peeler and also cut it into thin slices . Take one of the limes, divide it into quarters, and cut them into thin slices (if you don't appreciate the bitter aftertaste, you can use half a lime or just a few slices at this stage).
Finally, wash the red chili pepper, divide it in half lengthwise, and remove the internal seeds , then cut it into small pieces ; do the same with the green chili pepper. Combine all these vegetables in a large bowl and set aside.
Now you can take care of the chicken: cut the chicken breast into medium-thickness strips , transfer it to a bowl, and add the juice of the remaining two limes , the cloves ,
the juniper berries , and the turmeric . Mix well , cover the bowl with plastic wrap, and leave to marinate in the refrigerator for at least 20 minutes.
After the marinating time has passed, remove the chicken from the refrigerator and discard the juniper berries. While letting the chicken return to room temperature, start cooking the vegetables: take a large pot with high sides, add the prepared vegetable mix and pour in water until all the ingredients are covered . Cover with a lid and bring to a boil over medium heat.
In the meantime, heat the olive oil in another pan, add the marinated chicken and sauté over medium heat for 5-6 minutes, stirring often . Once ready, transfer the chicken to a bowl and set it aside for now .
When the soup comes to a boil, add the previously sautéed chicken , stir, adjust the salt, then cover with the lid and continue cooking. At this point, prepare the avocado: cut it in half lengthwise, remove the central pit with a spoon , then separate the flesh from the skin carefully without damaging it, still using the spoon .
Cut the avocado flesh first into slices and then into cubes , and add it to the cooking soup . Close again with the lid and let the soup cook for at least 50 minutes in total.
After the cooking time, remove the soup from the stove , then wash and chop the fresh cilantro . Divide the soup into serving plates and sprinkle with the chopped cilantro: your tasty chicken and avocado soup is ready to be served !
It is best to consume the chicken and avocado soup immediately to keep all the aromas intact; alternatively, it can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 4 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you don't like the aroma of cilantro, replace it with fresh parsley. To add a crunchy component (and an additional Mexican touch), you can add strips of corn tortillas fried just before serving it!

