name:
Aperitè
ingredients:
Sandwich bread: 3slices
Cucumbers: 1cup(115 g)
Robiola cheese: 0.9cup(100 g)
Pink peppercorn: 1spoonful
Chives: 8fili
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Green Tea: 2tsp- in leaves
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Prosecco: 1.7cups(400 g)
Elderberry syrup: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Berries: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note (plus the tea cooling time)

instructions:
To prepare the aperitea, start by making the cucumber sandwiches. Wash the cucumber, dry it, and after trimming it, slice it thinly . Season with salt and let it drain for a few minutes. Meanwhile, chop the chives; for convenience, you can use scissors .
Manually crush the peppercorns and transfer the robiola cheese into a small bowl. Work it with a spatula for a few moments , then add the chives
the pink pepper , a pinch of salt, and a drizzle of oil . Mix everything together and place the 3 slices of white bread on a cutting board.
Spread the prepared robiola cheese on the first 2 slices (10-11), if you prefer, you can clean the knife on the third slice. Then pat the cucumber slices dry with paper towels
and arrange them on both slices, placing them on the cheese . Then place one of the two slices on top of the other and close with the third slice of white bread .
Cut diagonally first in half and then again in half to make 4 triangles . Divide each triangle in half again to make 8 small cucumber sandwiches .
Cover the sandwiches, store them in the refrigerator, and in the meantime, prepare the tea cocktail. Pour the water into a small pot and heat it to about 140°F, it won't need to boil. Then add the tea leaves and let them steep for 4-5 minutes .
At this point, strain it and let it cool. Then add the prosecco and the elderflower syrup .
Mix everything together , then pour into glasses with ice and finish with berries and fresh mint . Serve immediately with your sandwiches!
It is recommended to prepare the aperitea fresh. Alternatively, you can prepare it a few hours in advance. Once the sandwiches are made, cover them with a damp paper towel, wrap them in plastic wrap, and store them in the refrigerator. The cocktail can also be prepared in advance, but the ice should be added only at the last moment!
You can use another spice of your choice instead of chives.
Can't find green tea leaves? No problem, you can use regular tea bags!
The elderflower syrup is used to sweeten and flavor the cocktail. Alternatively, you can use another fruit-based syrup or sweeten the tea. You can also omit it, but the cocktail will be dry!
Looking for more delicious cucumber appetizers? Try our marinated stuffed cucumber recipe! Stuffed pickled cucumbers !

