name:
Beetroot tagliatelle with asparagus
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2.4cups(300 g)
Precooked beets: ¾cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Semolina: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Asparagus: 0.75lb(350 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Black pepper: to taste
Goat: 3.2oz(90 g)- semi-aged
Bean sprouts: ¼cup(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes of resting for the fresh pasta

instructions:
To make beetroot tagliatelle with asparagus, start with the fresh pasta: take the beetroot and cut it into cubes . Place it in a bowl and blend with an immersion blender to obtain a smooth pulp .
Add a drizzle of oil and a pinch of salt. Pour the all-purpose flour into a bowl and gradually mix it with the beetroot puree .
Knead by hand to combine the two ingredients . Once the flour has absorbed the beetroot, transfer the dough to a pastry board and continue kneading until you obtain a smooth and elastic dough ball .
Wrap the dough ball in plastic wrap and let it rest for about half an hour at room temperature. Once the resting time has elapsed, divide the dough into 4 portions and roll out one at a time with a pasta machine to the penultimate thickness , dusting with semolina as needed.
Cut each strip into two rectangles, dust them with a little semolina, trim the edges with a scraper , and let them dry on the board for 5 minutes on each side. After this time, take a sheet, fold one edge over to about two-thirds then roll it up
creating a very flat roll, making sure to keep the closure facing up, which will make it easier later . Cut the roll into slices about 7 mm . Now take the closure of the roll
unroll it and wrap them around your fingers to create the classic nests of tagliatelle . While the tagliatelle dry slightly , place a pot of water on the stove, when it comes to a boil, salt it.
Meanwhile, prepare the dressing: clean the asparagus, cut away the harder ends , peel the tougher final part of the stalks then cut them into slices diagonally , leaving the tips whole.
Peel and thinly slice the garlic . Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the garlic , and once golden, add the asparagus .
Season with salt and sauté the asparagus in the pan for 5 minutes . When the water you put to heat comes to a boil, briefly cook the nests of tagliatelle , then drain them with a slotted spoon directly into the pan .
Turn off the heat and toss the tagliatelle with half the goat cheese . Distribute the tagliatelle onto plates and complete each portion with small pieces of goat cheese, beetroot sprouts , and a grind of pepper to taste . Your beetroot tagliatelle with asparagus is ready to be served!
It is recommended to consume beetroot tagliatelle with asparagus immediately. You can freeze the uncooked tagliatelle. For freezing, place the pasta nests well spaced on a tray and then put them in the freezer for a couple of hours until they harden. Once well hardened, distribute them in freezer bags and put them back in the freezer. You can then cook the tagliatelle directly from frozen.
As an alternative to goat cheese, you can use another fresh cheese such as robiola or stracchino.

