name:
Tagliatelle with Broad Beans and Stracciatella
ingredients:
Egg Tagliatelle pasta: 10.6oz(300 g)
Fava beans: 3.5oz(100 g)- cleaned
Stracciatella cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Jowls: 2.8oz(80 g)
Leeks: 2.1oz(60 g)
Carrots: 1.4oz(40 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the tagliatelle with broad beans and stracciatella, first, bring a pot of lightly salted water to a boil. Then, prepare the ingredients: cut the guanciale into slices about 2 mm (0.08 inches) thick , then stack them and cut into strips . Clean the leek by removing the ends and the outer layer, then cut it in half lengthwise
and slice it longitudinally to obtain very thin strips . Trim and peel the carrots and slice them very thinly using a vegetable peeler , then stack them and cut lengthwise into strips .
Remove the broad beans from the pod and peel off the outer skin from each one : you should have 3.5 oz of cleaned broad beans. Take the stracciatella out of the fridge and let it come to room temperature .
Heat a large non-stick pan, add the guanciale and sauté for about 5 minutes over medium heat until golden and crispy. Once ready, remove it from the pan, leaving the melted fat inside, and let it drain on paper towels . By this time, the water should be boiling, so add the tagliatelle and cook according to the package instructions .
In the same pan where you sautéed the guanciale, add the sliced leek and carrot and cook for 2-3 minutes over medium heat, stirring often, until slightly softened but still crisp. When the tagliatelle are done cooking, drain and add them directly to the pan with the carrots and leek . Add the guanciale
and the shelled broad beans and quickly toss everything together. Transfer the pasta to serving plates and garnish with strands of stracciatella to taste and a generous grind of pepper . Your tagliatelle with broad beans and stracciatella are ready to be served!
It is recommended to cook and serve the tagliatelle with broad beans and stracciatella immediately; alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator without adding the stracciatella for up to a day in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
Couldn't find stracciatella? Substitute with burrata or stracchino! Are you vegetarian? Omit the guanciale and add a pinch of salt and thyme to the vegetables for a more intense flavor!

