name:
Fish skewers with Worcestershire sauce
ingredients:
Tuna: 10.5oz(300 g)
Prawns: 8
Anchovies: 4.6oz(130 g)- (8 fillets)
Worcestershire sauce: 2 ¾tbsp(40 ml)
Wildflower honey: ½cup(150 g)
Dry white wine: 1.4oz(40 g)
Orange peel: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Cucumbers: 2
Lemons: 1
Pane rustico bread: 2slices
Mint: 6leaves
Worcestershire sauce: 1spoonful
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the fish skewers with Worcestershire sauce, first begin by How to Clean Anchovies . You can use gloves for these operations if you prefer: gently detach the head, and open one anchovy at a time like a book ; remove the internal spine by running them under cold water and lay them open in a baking dish .
Then proceed to the How to clean shrimp : detach the head , remove the legs and gently pull away the shell . Using a toothpick, also remove the internal intestine; then set these aside .
Take the tuna steak and cut it first into thick slices and then into cubes , making 8 pieces. At this point, start assembling the skewers. Take a wooden skewer and thread a piece of tuna and a shrimp , letting them slide toward the end.
Then add another piece of tuna , a couple of anchovy fillets , and finish with a shrimp .
Repeat the same operation for the other skewers and place them in a large baking dish or a pan . Move on to the marinade: in a bowl, combine the honey, Worcestershire sauce , and white wine .
Also pour in the oil , grated orange zest , salt, and pepper. Mix everything with a whisk and pour the marinade over the skewers . Cover with plastic wrap and let marinate in the refrigerator for at least 20 minutes.
In the meantime, start preparing the crunchy panzanella, which you can serve as a side dish. Cut the slices of bread into cubes . Then, in a hot pan, pour the Worcestershire sauce and the oil . Add the bread cubes
and toast them for a few minutes until they are golden brown . Set aside and move on to trimming the cucumber. Then, peel the outer skin in strips lengthwise only in some areas and cut it into thin slices .
Take the lemon, peel it raw, taking care to remove all the white part ; then separate the segments . Transfer the cucumber slices into a bowl, along with the pan-toasted bread .
Add the lemon segments, fresh mint leaves , and season with salt, pepper, and a drizzle of oil . Then mix everything . The panzanella is ready.
Proceed to cook the skewers: drain them from the marinade and place them on a hot grill . Wait about 3 minutes, then turn them and finish cooking for another 3 minutes . Serve your skewers still hot, accompanied by the crunchy panzanella .
It is preferable to consume the skewers immediately after cooking. The skewers can be stored raw in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day, inside the marinade. The panzanella can also be stored in the refrigerator for up to two days, but it will be less crunchy.
These skewers can be made with various types of fish, thus respecting the seasonality of the catch; the result will still be effective. The dish can be made even fresher by pairing the skewers and panzanella with a natural Greek yogurt-based sauce.
Before consuming raw fish, marinated or not perfectly cooked, it is recommended to freeze for at least 96 hours at -0.4 °F in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, as per the Ministry of Health guidelines .

