name:
Carpaccio alla Cipriani
ingredients:
Veal: 0.9lb(400 g)- entrecôte
Worcestershire sauce: 2spoonfuls
Lemon juice: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Mustard: 1tsp
White wine vinegar: 1spoonful
Eggs: 1
Egg yolks: 2
Vegetable oil: 1.4cups(300 g)
Shallot: 1
Black pepper: to taste
Mixed salad: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make Cipriani Carpaccio, start by preparing the mayonnaise: put the two egg yolks and the whole egg in a bowl, add the mustard , white wine vinegar , lemon juice , then salt and pepper.
Begin to whisk everything with an electric mixer at medium speed, pouring in the vegetable oil gradually , continue to whip the mixture with the whisk without changing the speed until the mayonnaise is well whipped . At this point, add the Worcestershire sauce .
Peel and finely chop the shallot , then add it to the mayonnaise , adjust with salt and pepper, and mix with a spatula to blend the sauce .
Now proceed with the carpaccio: slice the entrecôte , cut the slices in half and place them between two sheets of plastic wrap .
Use a meat mallet to pound the slices until they are thin . Transfer the carpaccio to a plate, dressing with olive oil .
and flavor with a few teaspoons of Worcestershire sauce-flavored mayonnaise . Finally, salt and pepper . Cipriani Carpaccio is ready; serve it accompanied by some mixed greens .
Store Cipriani Carpaccio in the fridge and consume it on the same day. The mayonnaise can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for no more than a day. Freezing the preparation is not recommended.
Has your mayonnaise curdled? Here are two practical tips to recover it. Try putting an ice cube in the mayonnaise and see if the emulsion recovers, stirring a little. Or start the preparation again with one yolk and use the curdled mayonnaise instead of the oil!
If you love raw meat, don't miss the recipe for Steak Tartare , the most classic version of Beef Tartare !
For the safe consumption of raw meat, it is recommended to purchase very fresh meat and not to consume it if color or odor alterations are noticed. For further details, refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

