name:
Rack of lamb with thyme and Colonnata lard
ingredients:
Lamb loin: 0.9lb(420 g)- provided with 6 ribs
Colonnata lard: 6slices
Thyme: 3sprigs
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Sage: 3leaves
Black pepper: to taste
Borettane onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Blond beer: ¼glass(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 36 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the rack of lamb with thyme and Colonnata lard, start by trimming the excess fat from the meat. Use a thin and sharp knife, starting from one end and running it along the entire surface of the meat . Once it is well trimmed
wrap the slices of lard between the various ribs (4-5). If the lard does not adhere, you can lightly grease the meat. Then take the aromatic herbs (thyme, sage, and rosemary) and strip them .
Finely chop them with a knife . Then grease your rack of lamb and sprinkle it with the freshly prepared mixture , pressing lightly to make it adhere; pepper to taste, there will be no need to salt the lamb since the lard is very flavorful.
Then transfer it to a sheet of parchment paper and fold the paper to cover only the meat, leaving the bones uncovered . Close it like a candy .
Add a drizzle of oil inside the parcel and place everything in a baking dish . Cut the pearl onions into quarters and place them alongside.
Season with a drizzle of oil , salt , and pepper .
Then pour the light beer into the baking dish and insert the probe that will be used to monitor the temperature of the meat . Cook in a preheated oven at 356°F for 36 minutes, until the center of the meat reaches a temperature of 140°F. Then remove the lamb from the oven ,
open the parcel and remove the ribs , keeping the cooking juices aside .
Cut the rack to separate the ribs . Then serve your rack of lamb with thyme and lard along with the pearl onions, drizzling everything with the cooking juices .
We recommend consuming the rack of lamb immediately; alternatively, it can be stored for 1 day in the refrigerator in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
To the herb mixture, you can add grated lemon zest and crushed juniper berries, chopping them with the knife along with the zest and herbs mixture.

