name:
Chicken Salad
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 14.1oz(400 g)
Spinach: 10cups(300 g)
Belgian endive: 10.5oz(300 g)
Lamb's lettuce: 6.7cups(200 g)
Avocado: 1
Cucumbers: 1
Cherry tomatoes: 16
Walnut kernels: 8
Lemons: ½
Rosemary: to taste
Curry sauce: 4spoonfuls- (optional)
Balsamic vinegar: 2tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the chicken salad, start with the vegetables: wash and halve the cherry tomatoes , then clean the Belgian endive and slice it thinly . Peel the cucumber and cut it into thin slices .
Peel the avocado, remove the central pit, and slice the flesh . Set aside the vegetables and prepare the dressing: in a small bowl, pour the extra virgin olive oil, balsamic vinegar , and curry sauce .
Add salt and mix to obtain a homogeneous sauce . Move on to cooking the chicken: rub the raw chicken breasts with half a lemon .
Do the same with the chopped rosemary , then let them marinate for a few minutes at room temperature. Heat a grill or a non-stick pan well and cook the chicken breasts for 5 minutes on each side , until they are well browned on the outside and cooked inside (cooking time may vary depending on the thickness of the meat) .
Once cooked, let them cool slightly and then cut them into thin strips . Wash and dry the spinach thoroughly, then transfer them to a large bowl .
Do the same with the lamb's lettuce . Add the cherry tomatoes and walnut kernels .
Add to your salad the Belgian endive , cucumbers, avocado , and grilled chicken strips .
Dress with the dressing and mix carefully to distribute all flavors well . Serve your chicken salad immediately !
We recommend consuming the dressed chicken salad immediately.
The salad without dressing can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.

If you prefer a fresher and lighter dressing, you can replace the curry sauce with a cream based on Greek yogurt, lemon juice, and mild mustard. Alternatively, you can opt for a honey and mustard vinaigrette, which pairs perfectly with the sweetness of the avocado and cherry tomatoes.
As for the ingredients, try replacing the Belgian endive with arugula or radicchio for a more bitter touch, or add some mango for a fruity note!

