name:
Vegan lasagna
ingredients:
Dried lentils: 1.67cups(330 g)
Canned tomatoes: 2 ¼cups(550 g)
Water: 2.3cups(550 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Celery: 1.4oz(40 g)
Yellow onions: 1.8oz(50 g)
Carrots: 0.4cup(50 g)
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Rice milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Vegetable margarine: ½cup(100 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Whole grain flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Water: 0.6cup(145 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 1 h 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare vegan lasagna, start by making the dough. Place the whole wheat flour on a work surface, trying to give it a fountain shape. Add a pinch of salt , the oil , and start kneading while pouring the water in a thin stream .
Continue working the mixture until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough . At this point, wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest for an hour at room temperature.
In the meantime, prepare the lentil ragù. Clean and finely chop the carrots, celery, and onion ; then add them to a pot with the oil and let them brown over moderate heat for about ten minutes. Once golden, add the previously rinsed dry lentils .
Then add the chopped rosemary , tomato sauce , water, and mix everything .
Cover with a lid and let it cook for 60 minutes. Once the lentils are cooked, you can add salt and pepper ; mix again , and the lentil ragù will be ready.
Once the dough has rested, take the dough and divide it into several pieces using a dough scraper . Using a pasta machine, roll the dough from the widest thickness to the penultimate one , to obtain a sheet about 1/8-3/16 inch thick. Alternatively, you can use a rolling pin.
Gradually place the dough on a lightly floured surface, then cut it to obtain rectangles the right size for the baking dish. In our case, the pasta rectangles were 6x4.7 inches . Once the rectangles are obtained, place them on trays where you have placed clean cloths . Let the pasta dry slightly, and in the meantime, prepare the bechamel. Pour the rice milk into a saucepan, add the nutmeg , and bring it to a boil.
In another saucepan, add the margarine and let it melt gently. Once completely melted, add the flour while stirring and mix quickly to obtain a lump-free mixture. Let it brown gently, then pour in the hot milk a little at a time .
Season with salt and pepper , then continue cooking until your bechamel thickens . Place a pot full of water on the stove, salted to taste, which will be used for cooking the dough. Take a 12x8 inch baking dish and place a layer of ragù on the base .
As soon as the water starts boiling, dip each pasta rectangle and cook it for about 1 minute. Using a slotted spoon, drain it well from the cooking water and place it on the ragù . Continue in this way until the entire surface is covered.
Add a layer of bechamel and cover with more ragù . Continue this way, until you finish the pasta .
Cover with a generous layer of ragù and a few tablespoons of bechamel here and there . Bake in a static oven at 392°F for 40 minutes, then remove from the oven and wait about ten minutes before serving it .
The vegan lasagna can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. You can prepare the lentil ragù a day in advance. If you prefer, the lasagna can also be prepared a day in advance; just store it in the refrigerator and cook it before serving. If you have used all fresh ingredients, you can freeze it, just let it thaw in the refrigerator before cooking it!
To blanch or not to blanch the pasta rectangles? Being fresh eggless pasta, blanching it and creating layers will make the result very soft. You can also cook the fresh vegan pasta without blanching it, directly forming the lasagna layers; in this case, the layers will be more substantial, but you might notice a floury taste.

