name:
Orange Tart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Butter: 1.1cups(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ⅔cup(200 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Orange peel: 1
Orange marmelade: 2cups(500 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + 1 h of resting time for the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
To prepare the orange tart, first, make the shortcrust pastry: place the flour and cold cubed butter in the mixer , blend everything in short bursts to avoid heating the dough too much, until you get a sandy mixture , then stop the blades and flavor it with orange zest ,
add the powdered sugar and the lightly beaten eggs . Turn on the mixer to mix the ingredients and obtain a homogeneous dough .
Transfer the dough to a work surface and work it quickly, just enough time to compact it and form a dough ball. Wrap the dough ball with plastic wrap and let it firm up in the fridge for 1 hour. After the specified time, take the dough ball, roll it out with a rolling pin on the work surface
roll out the dough to a thickness of about 1/4 inch . Roll the rolled-out dough onto the rolling pin and gently unroll it over a fluted tart pan with a diameter of 9.5 inches .
With your fingers, press the dough into the edges to make it adhere well to the pan . At this point, run the rolling pin over the edge of the pan to trim away excess dough evenly and neatly . Prick the bottom of the tart with a fork to prevent air bubbles from forming during baking .
Fill the tart with marmalade, spreading it evenly with the back of a spoon . Take the leftover dough, roll it out to a thickness of 1/4 inch. Cut strips of dough with a fluted wheel . Now apply the strips of dough by intersecting them: attach 5 strips of dough to the edge of the tart starting with the first , spacing the others evenly.
Place the first, the middle, and the last one on the surface as shown in the photo , alternating them with those placed in the opposite direction; then lay one transversely and also lay the other two vertical strips that you had left folded .
Lift again, this time the first strip, the third, and the last one and lay another one horizontally ; proceed by folding the vertical strips over the tart and continue with this technique to finish all the strips .
Once the entire tart is covered, press the ends firmly with your fingers on the edge . Once ready , bake the orange tart in a static oven on the lower shelf at 340°F for 50 minutes. Once baking is complete, remove the orange tart from the oven, let it cool before unmolding it.
Store the orange tart at room temperature, under a glass dome, for up to 2-3 days. You can freeze the pastry or keep it in the fridge for a couple of days wrapped in plastic wrap.
If you don't have a mixer, you can knead by hand adding the ingredients in the same order. In this case, it is recommended to knead quickly to avoid warming the dough too much. If you have leftover dough, you can freeze it or make delicious individual tarts.

