name:
Savoy Cabbage Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Verza (savoy cabbage): 1.25lbs(560 g)
Shallot: 2oz(60 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)- approximately
White wine: ¼cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the savoy cabbage risotto, peel the shallots and finely chop them . In a pan, pour the oil, add the shallot , and salt .
Sweat for about 7 minutes over low heat . Meanwhile, cut the savoy cabbage: remove the first leaf and the tough part, then cut into strips about 0.4 inches thick and then cut them in half .
Once the shallot is sweated, add the savoy cabbage to the pan and cook for about 5 minutes, salt and pepper, pour a ladle of broth, cover with a lid , and continue cooking over low heat, adding more broth as needed, for about 10 minutes.
After the cooking time for the savoy cabbage , set it aside; in the same pan, pour some oil, then add the rice and toast for about 5-6 minutes or until very hot. Deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate.
Cook the rice by gradually adding hot broth ; it will take a total of 15 minutes. Add the savoy cabbage 3 minutes before the end of cooking. At the end of cooking, turn off the heat and finish with cheese
and butter in chunks , let the rice rest for about 1-2 minutes . Serve the savoy cabbage risotto with a sprinkle of black pepper to taste .
We recommend consuming the savoy cabbage risotto immediately to enjoy it at its best. If necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer a stronger flavor for your savoy cabbage risotto, replace the Parmesan with grated pecorino cheese. If you wish to add a fresh aromatic note, you can scent it with some thyme leaves, marjoram, or lemon zest.

