name:
Rice and Lentils
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Vegetable broth: 2.1cups(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1filo
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Sage: 1leaf
Rosemary: 1sprig
Lentils: 1cup(200 g)
Carrots: 1
Onions: 1clove
Celery: 1rib
Water: 2.1cups(500 g)- approximately
Fine salt: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- grated

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the rice with lentils, first make the Vegetable broth and keep it warm, then proceed to prepare the lentils, which must be cooked separately before being added to the rice. First, peel and finely chop the onion . Remove the ends of the carrot and peel it , then coarsely chop it .

Next, prepare the celery, which should also be chopped with a knife . Pour a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil into a pot , add the onion .
Then add the celery , the carrot , and sauté them for a few minutes over low heat .
Next, add the lentils , pour in the water , and add the salt . The lentils do not need to be soaked but can be rinsed beforehand.
Add the bay leaf , mix everything well, and cook the lentils over low heat for about 30 minutes . Once the lentils are ready, you can start preparing the rice. Pour a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil into a pot and heat it .

At this point, add the rice and toast it for a few moments, stirring with a wooden spoon . Then moisten it with a ladle of vegetable broth .
Continue cooking and add a little broth at a time, as needed . Halfway through cooking, add the lentils and mix everything well .

Add more broth , keep stirring , and add a bundle of herbs tied with string; we used a sage leaf, a bay leaf, and a sprig of rosemary .
Continue cooking, always adding broth only when needed . Once cooking is complete, remove the aromatic herbs and turn off the heat .

Finally, add the grated Parmesan cheese and stir to make it creamy . The rice with lentils is ready; just bring it to the table .

It is advisable to prepare rice and lentils and consume it immediately; alternatively, it can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day.
Rice and lentils can be enriched with crispy bacon or pancetta.
To make the rice creamy, you can also consider adding other cheeses, such as mountain cheeses, both aged and fresh and melty. You can add raw oil or a small piece of butter.


