name:
Soft lemon and orange cookies
ingredients:
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 2.5oz(70 g)- (1 medium approximately)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(320 g)
Sugar: ½cup(90 g)
Lemons: 1- (untreated)
Oranges: 1- (untreated)
Baking powder: ¾tsp(3 g)
Sugar: 5tbsp(60 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour for the pastry to rest

instructions:
To prepare the soft lemon and orange cookies, first melt the butter over very low heat, then let it cool slightly. Next, wash and dry the citrus fruits, grate the peels being careful not to take the more bitter white part . Continue by squeezing the juice from the two citrus fruits and obtain 1/6 cup from each; set aside . Place a sieve in a bowl and sift the flour and baking powder .
Start kneading by hand while adding the room temperature eggs and the melted butter, now cooled , then the granulated sugar ,
the citrus peels and the lemon and orange juice . Continue kneading until you get a soft and compact ball, cover with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for about an hour .
After the time needed to compact the dough, form balls about 3/4 oz each, obtaining about thirty pieces that you can then roll in granulated sugar so they are well covered . Arrange the cookies on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, keeping them spaced apart .
Then dust the surface with powdered sugar . Bake the cookies on the lowest rack of the preheated oven, in static mode, at 350°F for about 30 minutes . Once ready, let them cool and enjoy your wonderfully fragrant soft lemon and orange cookies !
The soft lemon and orange cookies can be stored at room temperature for a week, so it's best to keep them in a tin box: the longer they sit, the more the cookies may develop a crisp texture. Freezing the formed or baked cookies is not recommended, while the dough can be frozen once ready or kept in the refrigerator for a few days.
Try rolling the soft lemon and orange cookies in brown sugar instead of granulated sugar for a much more rustic result!

