name:
Spanakopita
ingredients:
Phyllo dough: 1roll
Spinach: 16.7cups(500 g)
Feta cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Onions: 1
Eggs: 2- medium
Parsley: to taste
Sesame seeds: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the spanakopita, start with the filling: wash the spinach thoroughly and dry them. Then clean an onion and slice it. Toss it into a large pan where you have slightly heated a drizzle of oil . After a few moments, you can already add the spinach , salt to taste, stir and cover with a lid. They should wilt, which will take a few minutes.
In the meantime, crumble the feta by hand . Once cooked, drain the spinach well and transfer them to a sieve, then press them to remove excess water. Pour the spinach into a bowl and add the eggs .
Add the chopped parsley as well , the crumbled feta, and mix everything together . If you prefer, you can chop the spinach to get a more homogeneous mixture .
Brush a 9.5x6.5 inch (2.5 inches high) baking dish with a little oil , then place a sheet of phyllo dough on the bottom and brush again with oil .
Add another layer of phyllo dough brushed with oil , then proceed in the same way to make 2 more layers, for a total of 4. At this point, pour the filling and distribute it well throughout the pan.
Cover with 4 more sheets of phyllo dough , making sure to brush them always with oil before placing the next one. Finally, cut the corners so it will be easier to fold them into the pan .
You can then proceed to fold the corners inwards so that the filling does not spill out , then brush again with oil .
Add a final sheet of phyllo dough to cover everything and brush one last time with oil . Make diagonal cuts across the entire surface .
Do the same in the other direction to create a diamond pattern . Garnish with sesame seeds and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 35 minutes. Once ready, take it out of the oven , then you can demold the diamonds and serve your spanakopita!
We recommend consuming the spanakopita as soon as it's ready to avoid losing its crispiness. You can store it in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to one day and heat it in the oven before serving.
Freezing is not recommended.
Like with the spanakopitakia, you can add toasted pine nuts or raisins to the filling for a sweet note.
It is said that the area where you can taste the best spanakopita in all of Greece is Epirus, along with the regions of Thessaly and parts of Macedonia: in these areas, shepherding was, and still is, practiced, and savory pies of this type were the perfect meal for those who led this lifestyle, as they could be made with inexpensive and easily available ingredients, could be conveniently transported, and lasted for several days.

