name:
Potato Burger
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.5lbs(650 g)
Red onions: 5oz(140 g)
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(60 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Eggs: 1
Water: 0.167cup(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Sage: 2sprigs
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Verza (savoy cabbage): 1cup(80 g)
Spinach: 1 ½cup(40 g)
Green apples: 3oz(80 g)
Greek yogurt: 0.4cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Tabasco®: - a few drops

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus 30 minutes of resting the cabbage

instructions:
To make the potato burgers, first place the potatoes in a saucepan, cover them with water , and boil them for about 40 minutes or until they are soft. Clean and slice the onions , heat the olive oil in a pan, and add the onions ,
cover them with water , and let them stew for about 15 minutes until they are soft . Meanwhile, chop the thyme, sage, and rosemary , and set aside.
In the meantime, prepare the salad: cut the cabbage in half , remove the tough central stem , then slice it into thin strips .
Place the cabbage in a bowl, salt it , and let it rest for about 30 minutes so it will become softer and release its liquids. Meanwhile, wash and dry the apples, cut them in half and then into thin slices ;
slice each piece into strips and set aside. Now dry the cabbage with a cloth . Everything is ready to assemble the salad: in a bowl, pour in the washed and dried baby spinach, add the cabbage ,
the apples, yogurt, olive oil , and a few drops of Tabasco . Stir to mix and set aside .
Once the potatoes are ready, put them hot and unpeeled in a potato masher, collecting the puree in a large bowl . Add the grated cheese , the chopped herbs, salt, and pepper .
Add the stewed onions, the beaten egg , then add breadcrumbs one tablespoon at a time until you get a firm mixture ; the dough may require more or less depending on its consistency. Everything is ready to form the burgers: cut a square of parchment paper about 5 inches on each side and place it on a small plate .
Place a round pastry cutter with a diameter of 4 inches in the center of the sheet , insert the mixture inside the cutter , and press it well with the back of a spoon .
Carefully remove the cutter: this is how you get your burger . Now move on to cooking: heat a pan with a drizzle of olive oil, place the burger by lifting it with the paper so that it stays firm . Once placed on the pan, remove the parchment paper .
Cook the burgers for 3 minutes on one side and 2 minutes on the other , they should be golden on the surface . Serve the hot potato burgers immediately, accompanied by the yogurt salad .
The burgers can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended. The salad should be consumed immediately.
Want to bake the burgers instead? No problem, bake them at 355°F in a preheated static oven for 15 minutes on one side and 5 on the other to make them nicely golden. Potato burgers can be enjoyed all year round by varying the accompanying salad with seasonal vegetables.

