name:
Savory Castagnole
ingredients:
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 3tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: ¼tsp
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- at room temperature (about 2 medium)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)- softened at room temperature
Grappa: 0.4oz(10 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Mantuan pumpkin: ½cup(125 g)
Castelmagno cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare savory castagnole, start by pouring all the ingredients into a bowl. Begin with the dry ones: flour, grated Parmesan cheese , sugar, instant yeast for savory preparations , and salt .
Briefly mix the powders and then add the butter, lightly beaten eggs , and grappa . Knead by hand and then transfer everything onto the work surface and continue to knead until the ingredients are compact. There’s no need to add flour, but if you really must, sprinkle a pinch .
Once you have a smooth dough, divide it into 30 pieces of about 0.5 oz each and then shape them into small spheres . Fry a few pieces at a time in plenty of peanut oil, heated to no more than 329°F (use a kitchen thermometer), otherwise they will brown on the outside and remain raw inside .
It will only take a couple of minutes to cook, so stir often with a skimmer to fry them evenly . As they are ready, drain the savory castagnole on absorbent paper and continue with the rest. Let them cool .
Meanwhile, prepare the pumpkin and Castelmagno cream. First, grate the cheese: it is semi-hard, so it will crumble easily, so be careful while grating; set the grated Castelmagno aside . Clean the pumpkin: remove the skin, seeds, and internal filaments, then cut into very small cubes, about 1/8 inch . This way, they will cook quickly. Heat a pan with a little oil and a clove of garlic in its skin (remember to crush it with the palm of your hand first). As soon as the base is hot, add the cubes and let them sauté for 1 minute .
Lower the heat, season with salt and pepper, then add water and let cook for 15 minutes : the base should not dry out too much, if necessary you can add a little more water. At the end of cooking, remove the garlic and immediately transfer to a blender, you should take advantage of the fact that the base is still very hot .
Add the Castelmagno and blend until smooth. You can add a few drops of hot water if necessary . Transfer the cream to a bowl, add the mascarpone
and mix until smooth . Transfer everything into a piping bag fitted with a nozzle and start filling the castagnole. Make an entry hole and gently hollow out , then squeeze the filling until they are full and continue with the rest. Here are your delicious savory castagnole with pumpkin and Castelmagno cream ready, happy Carnival !
Empty savory castagnole can be stored at room temperature for up to 2 days, but it is better to consume them as soon as possible because they will lose their crispness. Stuffed castagnole can be stored for a maximum of 1 day. Therefore, you can also prepare the cream up to 1 day in advance. Freezing the dough is not recommended, while empty castagnole can be frozen and then thawed; in this case, it's best to warm them a bit before serving. The dough can be prepared and stored, wrapped in plastic wrap, at room temperature for a maximum of 12 hours.
As for the savory castagnole cream, mascarpone is the most suitable cheese because it is just the right amount of bland and creamy. Ricotta, on the other hand, might soften the Castelmagno flavor too much, but it's a valid alternative! Castelmagno is such a flavorful and unique cheese that we recommend trying it and not replacing it with the classic Parmesan. If you don’t have grappa, you can replace it with a slightly sweet liqueur or white wine.

