name:
Baked Donuts
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Manitoba flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 4.25oz(120 g)- (about 2 medium)
Sugar: 1.4oz(40 g)
Water: 0.6cup(140 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)- soft
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(15 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Strawberry jam: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + about 5 hours of rising

instructions:
To prepare the donut dough, pour the all-purpose flour and bread flour , sugar , and crumbled fresh yeast into a stand mixer equipped with a hook attachment.
Start the mixer and gradually pour in the water , then add the beaten eggs little by little . Once the dough is formed, add the salt . Let the mixer run at medium speed for about 3-4 minutes.
When the dough detaches from the sides of the bowl, incorporate the softened butter, one piece at a time , waiting for each piece to be absorbed before adding the next. Once all the butter is absorbed, knead the dough for about 10 more minutes, until smooth and compact . Transfer the dough to a work surface, give it a couple of folds, and form a ball .
Place the dough inside a bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let it rise at a temperature of 78°F-82°F for about 3 and a half hours , or until it has tripled in volume . After the rising time, transfer the dough to a lightly floured board .
Roll it out slightly with a rolling pin to form a rectangle about 0.8 inches thick . Fold one of the shorter sides inward , the left one, bringing it towards the center so that when the other side is folded, it aligns with the first fold .
Cover with plastic wrap and a kitchen towel and let rest for 10 minutes. After 10 minutes, turn and roll out the dough again with the rolling pin, giving it a rectangular shape .
Proceed with 2 more folds starting from the right side and then the left side . Let the dough rest for another 10 minutes, making sure to cover it with plastic wrap and a kitchen towel. Repeat the folds and the 10-minute rest one more time (for a total of 3 times).
After the resting time, roll out the dough on a board with the rolling pin to a thickness of about 0.5 inches . Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest for 10 minutes before cutting the dough because if cut immediately, it tends to shrink . Using a cookie cutter with a diameter of 3.5 inches, cut out dough disks : you will get 10 (alternatively, you can use the edge of a glass for cutting).
As you go, transfer them to a tray lined with parchment paper . Once ready, cover with plastic wrap. Let the donuts rise in a dry place for about 45 minutes . Brush them with beaten yolk and cream .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 347°F for 20-25 minutes. Then take the donuts out of the oven and let them cool slightly. Once cooled, transfer the jam into a piping bag fitted with a plain nozzle and fill the donuts . Dust with powdered sugar and serve your delicious baked donuts !
Donuts without filling can be stored out of the refrigerator for 4-5 days in a paper bag or covered with plastic wrap or foil. Once filled, it is preferable to store them in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
It is possible to freeze unfilled donuts by wrapping them individually with plastic wrap. To defrost, simply take them out of the freezer, let them thaw for 15 minutes, and then warm them in the oven.
We do not recommend freezing raw dough.
The step of adding butter is delicate: it should be soft, yet still plasticky, and added gradually. We do not recommend re-kneading dough scraps. You can let the dough scraps rise and bake them as they are; even if they may not have a perfect shape, they will still be great!

