name:
Prawn Curry
ingredients:
Shrimps: 2lbs(900 g)- to clean
Curry paste: 1tsp- red
Powdered turmeric: 1tsp
Fresh chili pepper: 1.5oz(40 g)
Shallot: 1.5oz(40 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Vegetable oil: 3spoonfuls
Rice flour: 1tsp
Parsley: 1sprig
Fine salt: to taste
Carrots: 1
Onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Fresh ginger: 1.5oz(40 g)
Brandy: 0.7oz(20 g)
Vegetable oil: 1spoonful
Water: to taste- cold

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the prawn curry, first clean the prawns to prepare the shellfish stock: remove the head and shell and set them aside, then cut the back of the prawns with a knife and remove the black thread inside, which is the intestine ; you should end up with about 1.3 lbs of cleaned prawns.
Put the prawns in a bowl, add a tablespoon of vegetable oil and a teaspoon of turmeric , mix well , cover the bowl with plastic wrap, and let them marinate in the refrigerator while you prepare the rest.
Continue by cleaning the vegetables: wash and peel the onion and carrot, and roughly chop them , then do the same with the celery stalk, keeping the leaves . Finally, peel the ginger and cut it into not too small pieces .
Now pour the vegetable oil into a saucepan and heat it over high heat, then add the celery, carrot, onion, and ginger , add the prawn heads and shells , and toast them for 2-3 minutes, still on high heat, pressing the scraps well with a wooden spoon to release all the juices .
Deglaze with the brandy and let it completely evaporate, then cover the ingredients with cold water , lower the heat and let it cook for at least 45 minutes. When the shellfish stock is ready, strain it through a fine-mesh sieve and set it aside.
While the stock is cooking, you can prepare the ingredients for the prawn curry: peel the shallot and slice it fairly thinly , then do the same with the garlic cloves . Finally, take half the chili pepper, remove the seeds, and slice it thinly ; to remove the seeds more easily, you can rub the whole chili between your hands, then cut off the top and tap it upside down on the cutting board to get them out.
At this point, heat the fish stock and keep it handy, then take out the prawns you had left to marinate in the refrigerator. Heat a wok well with 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil, add the shallot, garlic, and chili , and let it infuse over high heat for a few minutes, adding a ladle of stock if necessary. Add the prawns seasoned with turmeric , stir briefly to combine them with the sauté, then cover with the fish stock and let cook for about 5 minutes.
Meanwhile, take the red curry paste, add a teaspoon of rice flour , and mix thoroughly, then add it to the wok along with another ladle of stock; mix well and let cook for another 3-4 minutes.
Finally, add the chopped parsley , adjust the salt , and turn off the heat. Your tasty prawn curry is ready to be served !
It is recommended to serve the prawn curry immediately or store it in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for a maximum of one day. Freezing is not recommended.
Don't forget to serve the prawn curry with pilaf rice or bread, Naan or Chapati , not only to respect Indian customs but especially because it’s the best way to gather and savor the delicious sauce in which the shellfish are immersed!
If you want to add vegetables, you can opt for snow peas and green beans to add directly to the sauté.
If you like the intense flavor of cilantro, feel free to replace it with parsley, and if you don't have brandy at home, you can easily use white wine instead.
As for the curry paste, there are two options: you can make it at home with a mortar, or more simply with a mixer, using garlic, onion, ginger, lemongrass, paprika, and chili, or you can buy it online or at ethnic grocery stores. Be careful though: there are various types of curry paste that differ in color and spiciness level!
Looking for other delicious curry variants? Try the Monkfish Curry or Salmon with Curry and Coconut Milk !

