name:
Vanilla flan
ingredients:
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Condensed milk: (200 g)
Eggs: 0.8cup(160 g)
Egg yolks: 3tbsp(42 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Water: 4tsp(20 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time

instructions:
To prepare the vanilla flan, start with the caramel. Pour the water into a saucepan , add the sugar , and bring the syrup to a boil over low heat.
In the meantime, prepare the flan base. In a bowl, pour the eggs , the sugar , and the condensed milk .
Scrape the seeds from the vanilla pod and add them to the mixture . Finally, pour in the milk
and whisk everything together . Meanwhile, the syrup will have started boiling , wait until it reaches a dark amber color, then turn off the heat and to stop the sugar from cooking, immerse the base of the saucepan in a bowl filled with water, being careful not to let water come into contact with the caramel. At this point, using a spoon , divide the caramel into 4 ceramic ramekins of 2.75 inches in diameter and 2 inches in height.
Using a ladle , equally divide the mixture into the 4 ramekins, leaving at least 0.4 inches from the edge. Now move on to the water bath cooking. Get a baking pan large enough and with high edges, fill it with hot water , and place the ramekins inside . Bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for about 50 minutes, on the lowest rack.
After the cooking time, take the vanilla flans out of the oven and let them cool first at room temperature and then in the refrigerator for at least 3 hours. When serving, immerse the ramekin in a saucepan filled with boiling water (without letting it come into contact with the flan) and with a smooth-bladed knife, make an incision along the entire circumference . This way it will be easier to extract the flan and flip it onto a dessert plate .
The vanilla flans can be stored in the refrigerator for 3 days well wrapped in plastic wrap.
The flan can be accompanied by slightly acidic berries (blueberries, currants, blackberries) to mitigate its sweetness.

