name:
Beetroot Savory Pie
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- rectangular
Precooked beets: 1cup(210 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)- sweet
Thyme: 3sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the beetroot savory pie, start by preparing the ingredients: take the pre-cooked beetroot and cut it into slices a few millimeters thick , then remove the rind from the sweet gorgonzola and cut it into chunks . Finally, separate the yolk from the egg white, place them in two different small bowls, and lightly beat both with a fork .
Now take the puff pastry roll, unroll it, and cut it in half lengthwise , then transfer one of the halves onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and preheat the oven to 356°F in static mode. Cover the surface of the puff pastry with the beetroot slices, being careful to leave the space around the edges free , then distribute the gorgonzola pieces evenly ,
salt , pepper, and add the thyme leaves . Finally, brush the edges of the puff pastry rectangle with the egg white .
At this point, take the remaining half of the puff pastry and, with a pastry wheel or a small knife, make closely spaced horizontal cuts along the entire length of the sheet, always taking care to leave the edge of the rectangle intact . Gently lift the perforated sheet and lay it over the first sheet, covering the filling and aligning the edges . Press with your fingers on the edges to seal the two sheets together .
Now take the yolk and brush the entire surface of the savory pie , then bake it at 356°F in the preheated static oven for about 15 minutes, until the puff pastry is nicely golden . Once it has cooled slightly, your beetroot savory pie is ready to be sliced and served !
The beetroot savory pie can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for about 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Do you like the modern look of this savory pie? Offer it in more variations by replacing the beetroots with other seasonal vegetables previously sautéed in a pan!

