name:
Steamed cod with turmeric and vegetable chips
ingredients:
Cod fillet: 4
Powdered turmeric: 1tsp- satin
Water: 8 ½cups(2 l)
Ground black pepper: 10
Juniper berries: 10
Lemon peel: ½
Bay leaves: 3leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Precooked beets: 6.4oz(180 g)
Purple potatoes: 6.5oz(180 g)
Potatoes: 0.4lb(180 g)
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 3 h 5 min
Serving: 4
Note (the vegetables should be cooked one batch at a time)

instructions:
To prepare the steamed cod with turmeric and vegetable chips, start by preheating the oven to 302°F in fan mode. Begin with the vegetables: start with the beetroot, slice it thinly using a mandoline to a thickness of 1/25-1/10 inch (alternatively, you can use a sharp blade; the important thing is to get very thin discs) . Arrange the beet slices on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , season with oil, salt, and pepper
and bake for 35 minutes or until you get dry and crispy chips . Do the same with the purple potatoes. Peel them, slice them , and place them on the baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Season with oil, salt, and pepper and bake as before . Now you will have to repeat the same steps for the potatoes. Wash them thoroughly, then dry and peel them to obtain thin discs – 1/25-1/10 inch in thickness – using the mandoline . Arrange them on the baking sheet lined with parchment paper ,
season with oil, salt, and pepper, and finally bake in the oven at 302°F for about 35 minutes, until they become crispy . To complete, you can take care of the zucchinis. Wash them, dry them, and trim the ends. Then slice and arrange them on the baking sheet lined with parchment paper
and bake these for the indicated time or until they become crispy . Between one batch and another, you can meanwhile take care of the rest. Place a pot with water on the stove and then add the turmeric , juniper berries, whole black peppercorns ,
the zest of half a lemon, and bay leaves . Bring everything to a boil and, once it reaches temperature, lower the flame to let the water simmer and let it go for 30 minutes .
After the time has elapsed, take the cod fillets and rinse them under a stream of fresh water, then dry them with kitchen paper. Mount a steamer on the pot and line its bottom with parchment paper , then place the cod fillets , season with salt and pepper
and cover with the lid . Cook like this for about 15 minutes over low heat . When cooked, arrange the steamed cod with turmeric and vegetable chips on a serving plate with the chips placed in a bowl and enjoy the fish still warm and garnished with a drizzle of oil !
You can store the vegetable chips in a bag, keeping them in a cool place, and consume them within 2-3 days. As for the cod fillets, it would be best to consume them immediately or at most within 24 hours.
Use seasonal vegetables at your convenience, for example choosing pumpkin or classic or purple carrots! If instead, you want to make the chips more special, sprinkle them with smoked paprika before baking them!

