name:
Baked Pumpkin
ingredients:
Pumpkin: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Stale bread: 1.8oz(50 g)- crumb
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)- to be grated
Sage: 2leaves

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the baked pumpkin, first clean the pumpkin by removing the outer rind with a knife . Cut the cleaned pumpkin into slices , then into strips, and finally into cubes of about 1/2 inch .
Take a skillet suitable for oven use (or use a non-stick pan and then transfer everything to a baking dish), heat the olive oil, add the sprigs of rosemary and the garlic clove , and let them brown over medium heat for 5 minutes. At this point, add the pumpkin cubes , salt and pepper to taste , and let cook for about 15 minutes, stirring occasionally.
When there are 5 minutes remaining in the cooking time, lower the heat and cover the skillet with a lid . Once the pumpkin is cooked, remove the garlic and rosemary from the skillet. Now preheat the oven to 375°F in convection mode and move on to preparing the breadcrumb topping: take the stale bread, remove the crust with a knife , and cut the crumb into cubes : you will need 1/2 cup.
Transfer the cubes of stale bread to a mixer, add the grated Grana Padano and the sage leaves , and briefly blend until a rather coarse texture is obtained .
Sprinkle the pumpkin with the breadcrumb topping (if you used a simple non-stick pan, transfer the pumpkin to a baking dish lined with parchment paper, otherwise leave it in the same skillet) , add 2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil and bake at 375°F in the preheated convection oven for about 15 minutes, until the breadcrumb topping takes on a nice golden color. Your baked pumpkin is ready to be served !
The baked pumpkin can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day, in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
If you want to make this side dish more substantial, before baking, you can add cubes of smoked scamorza cheese to the baked pumpkin, so they become nicely melty! Alternatively, instead of cheese, you can flavor the breadcrumb topping with the indispensable lemon zest and some sliced almonds, to add a touch of crunchiness.

