name:
Pasta with Black Kale
ingredients:
Fusilli pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 9.5oz(270 g)- (to be cleaned)
Pecorino toscano cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- mildly aged
Garlic: 1clove
Dried chili pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare pasta with black kale, start by cleaning the kale: after washing it, trim the base and cut off the hardest and most fibrous part of the stem , without necessarily removing the rest of the central rib if it is not too fibrous. Evaluate leaf by leaf to reduce waste, removing the rib only where it is not tender enough. Cut the cleaned kale into fairly thin strips .
Plunge the kale into a large pot of boiling salted water , which you will have already put on the stove for the pasta. Wait a couple of minutes for the boil to resume and add the pasta . Stir and cook for 2-3 minutes less than the time indicated on the package. Meanwhile, in a large pan, gently flavor a swirl of oil with a clove of garlic, deprived of its core and pressed . The heat should be very low so that the oil gets flavored without the garlic darkening.
Add the dried chili and mix. Meanwhile, take out 2-3 generous ladlefuls of cooking water and keep them aside in a bowl . Drain the pasta with kale and transfer it to the pan with the sauté .
Mix well and complete the cooking by finishing the pasta with the reserved water . Adjust the salt as needed. Finally, with the heat off, blend with a swirl of raw oil and the grated pecorino .
Add a little more of the cooking water to achieve the right creaminess . Serve with a pinch of chili if desired . The pasta with black kale is ready to be enjoyed !
Pasta with black kale can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to one day.
We do not recommend freezing.
You can replace the pecorino with Parmesan for a more delicate flavor.
For a creamier texture, try blending part of the kale and mixing it with the pasta, thus obtaining a velvety sauce!
We recommend choosing a pasta shape that can trap the kale leaves well. Fusilli are ideal, otherwise, shells or orecchiette will also work well.
The waste from cleaning the kale can be used for a Vegetable broth .

