name:
Hazelnut Buns
ingredients:
Water: ⅛cup(32 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅓cup(50 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.04oz(1 g)
Fine salt: ¼tsp
Whole grain flour: ½cup(60 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Water: 0.67cup(150 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 1.67tsp(10 g)
Hazelnuts: ½cup(60 g)- chopped
Eggs: 1
Chopped hazelnuts: ¾cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low
Note over 18 hours of leavening

instructions:
To prepare the hazelnut buns, start making the starter at least 12 hours in advance (you can start the night before to bake the next day). In a bowl, pour 50 g (1/4 cup) of all-purpose flour, 1 g of fresh crumbled yeast , and, while stirring with a fork, gradually add 32 g (about 2 tbsps) of water at room temperature . Knead with your fingertips
add 1/4 teaspoon of salt and knead again. Cover with plastic wrap and let it mature at room temperature for at least 12 hours. Once the starter is mature , you can proceed with the dough.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a hook, pour 200 g (1 2/3 cups) of all-purpose flour and 5 g (1 tsp) of fresh crumbled yeast , add 60 g (1/2 cup) of whole wheat flour and the starter you prepared earlier .
Start the mixer at moderate speed and pour in 150 g (2/3 cup) of water at room temperature gradually ; knead for about 5 minutes, then add 10 g (2 tsps) of salt and once absorbed, add 60 g (2 oz) of chopped hazelnuts .
Continue working the dough until it is smooth and elastic . Transfer it to a work surface , fold it over itself to form a spherical shape .
Place it inside a bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise in a warm environment (an oven turned off with just the light on will be perfect, keeping a temperature of 78-82°F) for about 4 hours or until it doubles in size . Now transfer it to a floured surface
and shape it into a log that you will divide into 6 pieces of about 3 oz each . Take a piece and, using the outer part of your hands, roll it on the surface to form a spherical shape .
Repeat the same operation for the other 5 portions of dough . At this point, beat an egg in a small bowl and dip each ball first in the egg
and then in the chopped hazelnuts , placing them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper, ensuring the side with small folds is against the tray to prevent them from opening during rising . Let them rise for another two and a half hours, again in an oven turned off with just the light on (78-82°F) .
Then remove the buns and heat the oven in static mode to 428°F, placing a pot filled with water at the base; bake the tray of hazelnut buns for 15 minutes at the indicated temperature. After this time, remove the pot from the oven, being careful not to burn yourself, and reduce the temperature to 392°F; continue baking for another 5 minutes, wedging an oven mitt between the oven door and its frame to simulate the open oven valve. When they are golden brown, remove the hazelnut buns and let them cool on a wire rack before serving them .
Hazelnut buns can be stored for 1-2 days in a paper bag. If you prefer, you can freeze them once cooked or before the second rise. Just thaw and let them rise before baking.
If there are any leftover buns, you can toast them the next day and enjoy them for breakfast with your favorite jam!
Instead of using the egg, you can wet the buns with milk before coating them with chopped hazelnuts.

