name:
Blueberry and Chocolate Tart
ingredients:
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)- cold
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: 0.67cup(130 g)
Eggs: 1.9oz(55 g)- (about 1 medium)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Blueberry compote: 0.8cup(200 g)- ORGANIC
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(65 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Blueberries: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Note + about 30 minutes of dough resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the blueberry and chocolate tart, start with the shortcrust pastry. In the mixer, pour the flour together with the butter and a pinch of salt and blend until you get a sandy mixture . At this point, continue working everything in the mixer, therefore add the sugar
the egg , the lemon zest, and operate the blades again: this time, however, you should only mix, so lower the speed to mix. As soon as the mixture is compacted , transfer it to the work surface and knead for a few moments to obtain a homogeneous dough. Wrap in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least an hour .
Once the shortcrust pastry is cold, take it back, place it on a floured work surface, and beat it vigorously to make it pliable again , sprinkle with a pinch of flour, and roll out the dough with a rolling pin until you obtain a disk about 1/2 inch thick, large enough to cover an 8-inch mold (there's no need to butter and flour it first since this dough is very buttery). To help you roll it out, you can wrap the pastry around the rolling pin
and then unroll it onto the baking pan . Remove the excess dough by running a rolling pin or a knife over the top (the excess dough can be frozen wrapped in film or used to make delicious cookies) and then prick the base with a fork .
At this point, pour the blueberry compote and level until it is completely distributed over the entire surface . Bake the tart in a preheated static oven at 355°F for 40 minutes on the lowest shelf; once done, remove and let it cool completely .
Once the base has cooled, work on the whipped ganache. Heat the cream in a saucepan until it nearly boils . Meanwhile, chop the dark chocolate and add it to the sufficiently hot cream: but first, turn off the heat !
At this point, you should constantly mix with a whisk until the chocolate is completely melted . Then transfer to a bowl and place this in another container in which you have poured water and ice . Then operate the electric whisks and whip for a few minutes
you should obtain a thick cream, it will take 3-4 minutes (the times are indicative because it highly depends on the temperature of the bowls and the environment) but be careful not to leave it for too long in the cold as it will become impossible to work with . Transfer to a piping bag with a star nozzle and start decorating the blueberry and chocolate tart . Finally, decorate with a few fresh blueberries and enjoy !
You can store the blueberry and chocolate tart in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap or a glass dome, better without the ganache.
The shortcrust pastry can be stored in the fridge for 3-4 days wrapped in film; the dough can be frozen, always wrapped in film, for about 1 month.
How to make the blueberry and chocolate tart tastier? Try adding some orange zest which goes great with chocolate!

