name:
Shrimp in Crust
ingredients:
Shrimps: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (12 pieces)
Puff pastry: 4.2oz(120 g)
Eggs: 1
Black sesame seeds: 1tsp
Sesame seeds: 1tsp
Sunflower seeds: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Greek yogurt: 0.8cup(200 g)
Mint: 1tuft
Lemon juice: ½
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.7tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the shrimp in crust, first clean the shrimp, making sure not to remove the tail: detach the head , the legs, and the shell, then remove the intestine, or the black thread on the back, using a toothpick . For best results in this step, you can consult our guide How to clean shrimp . Lay the cleaned shrimp in a baking dish and season them with olive oil .
Salt and pepper, mix gently and set them aside. Take the puff pastry and cut it into strips 0.39 inches wide with a pastry wheel . Take a strip of dough and wrap it around the shrimp starting from the head .
Cover the shrimp completely by wrapping the puff pastry strips in a spiral up to the tail . Place the shrimp on a baking sheet as you finish them. Once the shrimp are finished, beat the egg in a bowl and brush the surface of the puff pastry with the beaten egg .
Finally, cover 4 shrimp with black sesame seeds , another 4 with white sesame seeds , and the last 4 with sunflower seeds .
Bake the shrimp in crust in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 15 minutes or until the puff pastry is beautifully golden . Meanwhile, you can prepare the yogurt sauce: squeeze the lemon, collect the juice, and add it to the yogurt in a small bowl . Add the mint roughly chopped. Season with oil , pepper, and salt
and mix to combine all the ingredients . Once cooked, remove the shrimp from the oven and let them cool slightly before serving them accompanied by the yogurt sauce !
It is preferable to consume the shrimp immediately. Freezing is not recommended.
You can replace the sunflower and sesame seeds with flaked almonds or pistachio crumbs. Do not throw away the fish scraps, they can be used to make a delicious Shellfish Stock !

