name:
Pasta with cooked puntarelle
ingredients:
Bucatini pasta: 11.25oz(320 g)
Puntarelle (chicory): 1lb(450 g)
Bread: 1.75oz(50 g)- (only crumb)
Pecorino cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Anchovies in oil: 5fillets
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 2
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare pasta with cooked puntarelle, start by cleaning the latter. Wash them well under running water, cut off the end of the stem with a knife; take only the central leaves, the smaller and tender ones , setting aside the others for a moment. Using a small knife, detach them from the stem and cut them into julienne strips .
Immediately place them in ice water, so they won't spoil . Put a sufficiently large pot of salted water on the stove. Take the outer puntarelle and with a knife, remove the final part of the stem, the white part that would be tough when cooked . As soon as the water reaches a boil, blanch the outer puntarelle for about 10 minutes .
When they are tender, drain them, reserving the cooking water (which will be used to blend them and cook the pasta) and let them cool slightly. Then transfer them to a blender , pour about 50 g (1.76 oz) of the cooking water , and blend the puntarelle until you get a cream.
Sift it into another bowl , then add grated Pecorino and black pepper; mix and set aside your cream. In another pan, pour about 20 g (0.7 oz) of oil, 2 cloves of garlic, and the anchovy fillets drained from their oil .
At this point, take one of the 2 chili peppers, split it in half, and remove the seeds and the outer stem. Add it to the pan and turn on the heat. Cook for a few minutes until the anchovies have melted and the garlic is slightly golden, then remove both the garlic and the chili pepper using kitchen tongs . Meanwhile, bring the reserved puntarelle cooking water back to a boil. Drain the central puntarelle from the ice water and add them to the sauté . Cook for about 7 minutes until they are tender and turn off the heat.
In the meantime, throw the pasta into the water, which should now have reached a boil. While the pasta cooks, toast the bread crumbs. Pour a drizzle of oil into a pan and add the remaining chili pepper, seeds removed and chopped. Let it lightly brown and add the coarsely crumbled bread crumbs by hand . Stir continuously until well toasted . As soon as the bucatini are cooked, drain them and pour them directly into the pan with the julienne puntarelle ; then add the puntarelle cream
then add the puntarelle cream and sauté everything for a few moments . Plate the pasta with cooked puntarelle by adding a spoonful of toasted breadcrumbs to each plate and enjoy it while it's still hot!
It is recommended to consume the pasta with cooked puntarelle immediately. Alternatively, it can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to one day.
If you don't like anchovies, you can omit them or replace them with capers, which will give the sauté the right savoriness!

