name:
Cake with rice flour
ingredients:
Rice flour: 1 ¼cup(210 g)
Potato starch: ¾cup(100 g)
Sugar: 0.875cup(180 g)
Eggs: 5.5oz(155 g)- (about 3 medium) at room temperature
Sour cream: 0.8cup(200 g)- at room temperature
Lemon peel: 1- organic
Baking powder: 4tsp(16 g)- gluten-free

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the cake with rice flour, start by sifting the dry ingredients through a fine-mesh sieve. Pour in the rice flour, potato starch , and baking powder . Once you have removed the lumps, gently mix using a spoon ; set the bowl aside.
Continue by breaking the room temperature eggs into a bowl, turn on the beaters (alternatively, a stand mixer with a whisk attachment will work just fine) and add the grated zest of one lemon , then gradually add the sugar: this will help it swell. Continue beating the eggs until you obtain a light and fluffy mixture, it will take about 4-5 minutes . Then add the sour cream, also at room temperature, a little at a time, so as not to deflate the mixture .
Once the sour cream is finished, continue working for a few more minutes, you'll see that the mixture will swell again . It's time to add the dry ingredients one spoonful at a time while the mixer is still running : add the next amount only when the previous one is completely absorbed .
Pour the mixture into a 9-inch cake pan already greased and floured, obviously with rice flour . Level the surface carefully and bake in a preheated oven, in static mode, at 340°F for 50 minutes: place it on the lowest rack (so not in contact with the base). Since the times are indicative, make sure the cake is actually cooked by always doing the toothpick test. If you notice that the surface has become too golden after 30-40 minutes of cooking, you can cover it with a sheet of aluminum foil. Once ready, let the cake with rice flour cool completely before removing from the pan and serving !
The cake with rice flour can be stored at room temperature for 2 days, keeping it under a glass dome. It is possible to freeze the cake once it's ready, for convenience slice it in advance so you can enjoy your portion without having to defrost the entire cake.
This cake can be accompanied by inviting sauces such as English Cream , which is without thickeners and gluten-free. It is recommended not to replace potato starch with other types of thickeners (such as corn starch) as it could compromise the final result. If you can't find sour cream, you can safely replace it with the same amount of Greek yogurt!
To be sure that the products are gluten-free, we recommend always using those that have the crossed-out red ear symbol on the packaging. Moreover, for any doubts, always refer to your specialist doctor and follow the instructions on the Italian Celiac Association website.

