name:
Onigiri
ingredients:
Rice for sushi: 2cups(400 g)
Water: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Salmon fillets: 2.5oz(70 g)
Tuna filet: 2.5oz(70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Nori seaweed: 1foglio

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time for the rice

instructions:
To make the onigiri, start by preparing the rice: place the rice in a sieve and rinse it well under running water , then transfer it to a bowl and fill it with water . Rub the rice grains together with your hands ,
then change the water in the bowl to remove the released starch and repeat the same operations until the water is clear . At this point, pour the rice into a saucepan ,
add 600 g of water , cover with a lid and bring to a boil over medium heat. When the water comes to a boil, lower the heat to the minimum and cook the rice for about 12-13 minutes, always with the lid on. After this time, check that the rice has absorbed all the water , then turn off the heat and let the rice rest in the pot with the lid on for another 10 minutes.
Transfer the rice to the hangiri, the special wooden bowl , and gently mix with the wooden paddle to cool the rice : the rice should not cool completely. Move on to preparing the fish for the filling: season the salmon with oil , salt, and pepper, turning the fillets on all sides to ensure they are evenly flavored.
Heat a grill well and cook the salmon for 3 minutes on each side , then transfer it to a sheet of paper towel to dry it from the residual oil, if desired, transfer it to a bowl and break it up roughly with a fork . Proceed in the same way with the tuna: season the fillets with oil, salt, and pepper ,
grill them for 3 minutes on each side , gently dry them on paper towels , then break the tuna into pieces in a bowl using the tines of a fork .
At this point, you can start assembling the onigiri: wet your hands in a bowl full of water, to better handle the rice , then rub your palms with some salt to flavor the rice while forming the rice balls. Take a handful of rice and flatten it in the palm of one hand ; add a generous spoonful of salmon or tuna pieces
and cover with another portion of rice , then shape the rice between your hands into a triangle shape . Keep in mind that each triangle will require about 100 g of rice, and with these quantities, you will obtain about 10 onigiri. Now take the sheet of nori seaweed and cut it into strips about 2 cm wide
and 5 cm long . Attach the obtained strips to the base of each onigiri, pressing on the rice until they stick on their own . Your onigiri are ready to be enjoyed !
You can store the onigiri in the refrigerator for up to one day, in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
This is just one of the many versions of onigiri that can be bought or made by hand! By keeping the rice base, you can get creative with the filling: for example, you could use smoked salmon or skip the fish cooking step and stuff the onigiri with a tartare of fresh tuna or salmon (making sure it has been previously blast chilled). Alternatively, you could use chicken meat or opt for a vegetarian version, adding a filling of diced vegetables or pieces of omelet. Additionally, you can add soy sauce to the filling or serve it alongside the essential wasabi!
If you're looking for a simpler alternative for a takeaway lunch, try the Lunch box with couscous and salmon !
Onigiri can be found in various shapes, but the most common is definitely the triangle. According to legend, travelers in ancient times shaped rice into triangles to resemble the profile of a mountain and thus ask for protection from the spirits that, according to Shinto philosophy, live in every element of nature. According to a more pragmatic explanation, the triangular shape is the most efficient for maximizing the space of the containers in which onigiri are sold.

