name:
Pork tenderloin en croute
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Butter: 0.44cup(100 g)- cold
Water: ¼cup(50 g)- cold
Fine salt: to taste
Pork filet: 1.2lbs(540 g)
Sweet Pancetta: 2.1oz(60 g)- streaky
Dijon mustard: 2tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Garlic: 1clove
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the pork tenderloin en croute, first prepare the Easy Shortcrust Pastry : place the flour, cold butter cut into pieces, and a pinch of salt in the mixer and blend until you get a mixture with a crumbly texture . Transfer the mixture to a work surface and form a well, kneading quickly while gradually adding cold water .
Knead quickly being careful not to overheat the dough, working it until it becomes compact and firm . Once ready, wrap the shortcrust pastry in a sheet of plastic wrap and let it rest in the fridge for at least 30 minutes. Now take the pork tenderloin, trim off any fatty parts, and fold the thinner ends .
Truss the tenderloin with kitchen twine ; for more details on this process, you can refer to our guide How to tie a roast . Salt and pepper the tenderloin, then heat the olive oil in a pan with the peeled clove of garlic and rosemary, and place the tenderloin in the hot pan .
Brown it well on all sides to better seal the meat, being careful not to pierce the surface which would cause juices to escape . Once the pork tenderloin is well browned, place it on a plate and let it cool. Now take out your shortcrust pastry, lightly flour it
and roll it out on a work surface to about 1/8 inch thick . Lay the slices of bacon on the pastry, slightly overlapping them . Cut the twine wrapping the tenderloin ,
brush mustard on the surface to flavor it , and place it in the center of the pastry . Lift the slices of bacon to fully cover the tenderloin .
At this point, fold the pastry to wrap the entire tenderloin and seal the ends by pressing the dough with your fingers . Preheat the oven to 355°F in static mode, then place the tenderloin on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, brush the surface with beaten egg
and score it with a knife to create decorative diagonal cuts . Bake the pork tenderloin en croute at 355°F for 30 minutes, then continue cooking under the broiler for 5 minutes or until the crust begins to brown. Once cooked, remove the meat from the oven and serve it sliced, accompanied by mustard .
Pork tenderloin en croute is a dish best consumed immediately; otherwise, the meat will become dry. Freezing is not recommended.
You can substitute shortcrust pastry with puff pastry and bacon with slices of speck.

