name:
Lyonnaise potatoes
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2lbs(900 g)
Yellow onions: 10.5oz(300 g)
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Parsley: to taste
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 3tbsp(25 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare Lyonnaise potatoes, first peel the potatoes and cut them into slices about 1/2 inch thick , then boil them in salted water for 15 minutes .
Meanwhile, you can prepare the onions: peel and halve them, then cut them lengthwise into thin strips . In a pan, melt the butter with the oil over low heat , then add the onions,
add a ladle of the potato cooking water , cover with a lid , and let the onions stew for 15 minutes over low heat, adding more water if necessary. Once the potatoes are cooked, drain them and set them aside .
Now you can move on to making the béchamel sauce: put the butter in a saucepan and melt it over low heat, meanwhile heat the milk in another saucepan; when the butter has melted, turn off the heat and add the sifted flour while stirring with a whisk to prevent lumps . Once all the flour is added, place the saucepan back on low heat and continue to stir until it turns hazel in color, then pour in the hot milk in a thin stream, still stirring .
Flavor the mixture with nutmeg, salt, and pepper to taste and continue stirring over low heat until the béchamel sauce begins to thicken, or when it falls from the whisk forming a ribbon. For further information, you can consult the recipe for Béchamel sauce . Lastly, wash and finely chop the parsley , and preheat the oven to 356°F in static mode.
At this point, you're ready to assemble the Lyonnaise potatoes: take a 10-inch diameter baking dish, grease it with butter and sprinkle with breadcrumbs; form the first layer by placing the potatoes on the bottom of the dish without overlapping them , then add half of the stewed onions ,
cover with some béchamel sauce and sprinkle with the chopped parsley . Repeat the layers by adding more potatoes, onions ,
béchamel sauce, and parsley and finish with a sprinkle of pepper . Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 15 minutes, then turn on the grill at 482°F and cook for another 3 minutes until a delicious golden crust forms: your Lyonnaise potatoes are ready to be served hot !
Lyonnaise potatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap. It is possible to freeze the preparation after baking.
Lyonnaise potatoes are a regional recipe, which is why there are various versions: one of these includes drizzling the preparation with cream or milk instead of béchamel sauce. If you prefer a more robust and flavorful sauce, why not add grated Parmesan cheese to the béchamel sauce?

