name:
Grana Cheese Cannoli Filled
ingredients:
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 5.25oz(150 g)- to grate
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2 ¾cups(650 g)
Ground pistachio: 4tbsp(50 g)
Chives: to taste
Lemon peel: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Ground pistachio: to taste
Chopped hazelnuts: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 10

instructions:
To make the Grana filled cannoli, first grate the Grana Padano with a fine mesh grater , take a baking tray, place a sheet of parchment paper on it, and spread 15 g of Grana . Use the back of a spoon to spread it into an oval disk about 4 inches (10 cm) .
Bake the Grana wafer, one at a time, in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C) for about 5-7 minutes, until the cheese becomes golden. When finished baking, remove the wafer and transfer the parchment paper to a work surface. Place a cannoli tube on top , then roll it up while still warm, using the parchment paper to help peel off the wafer initially .
Wrap the entire wafer around the mold to create the classic cannoli shape , pressing gently to seal both ends. Then place them on a wire rack and let them cool.
Now focus on the filling: sift the ricotta through a sieve , flavor it with lemon zest and season with salt, pepper ,
olive oil , chopped chives , and finally add the chopped pistachios . Mix the cream to combine.
Transfer the ricotta cream into a piping bag with a plain nozzle . Take the cannoli and carefully remove the tube , then fill them by squeezing the ricotta cream from one end and the other.
Continue in this way until you make 10 Grana cannoli . To finish, garnish both ends with chopped pistachios and hazelnuts. The filled Grana cannoli are ready to be enjoyed .
Store the filled Grana cannoli in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for a couple of days. You can freeze them if you have used fresh ingredients.
If you don't have the traditional empty metal cannoli tubes, you can make tubes by rolling a sheet of aluminum foil about 5 inches (12 cm) wide until you reach a diameter of 3/4 inch (2 cm).

