name:
Plaice Meatballs
ingredients:
Plaice filets: 7.5oz(215 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.4cup(100 g)
Swiss chard: 1.7lbs(750 g)
Chives: 4fili
Breadcrumbs: ⅓cup(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves
Fine salt: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 0.75oz(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 11 min
Makes: 16 pieces

instructions:
To make the plaice meatballs, bring water to a boil in a saucepan, then add the plaice fillets and boil them for 1 minute. Use a slotted spoon to drain them , place them on a cutting board, and chop them with a knife .
Place the chopped fillets in a strainer to drain them well, then transfer them to a bowl and add the ricotta . Chop the chives and add them to the mixture .
Also add 1/3 cup of breadcrumbs , salt , and mix to combine the ingredients .
Now you can start forming the meatballs: take a piece of mixture weighing about 1/2 oz , shape it into a ball, and place it on a tray . Once finished, roll the meatballs in 3 tbsp of breadcrumbs needed for the breading .
Set the meatballs aside and prepare the greens: cut off the stem and wash them under running water .
Heat the olive oil in a pan with the peeled garlic , add the wet greens , cover with a lid , and cook for 4-5 minutes over medium heat.
Once the greens have wilted , turn off the heat and keep them warm. Proceed to cook the meatballs: heat the olive oil in a pan , add the meatballs and cook for 4-5 minutes , shaking the pan to cook them evenly.
Once ready , turn off the heat and plate: place the warmed greens on a plate and top with the meatballs. Serve the plaice meatballs piping hot .
Store the plaice meatballs in an airtight container in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day. The greens can be stored separately in the refrigerator for a couple of days or frozen alternatively. Freezing the meatballs is not recommended.
To accompany the meatballs, you can also use spinach or chicory if you prefer. To flavor the mixture, you can replace the chives with chopped parsley.

