name:
Persimmon Cake
ingredients:
Persimmon: 1.25lbs(550 g)- vanilla ripe
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(210 g)
Brown sugar: 0.8cup(150 g)
Raw cocoa powder: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Fleur de sel: 1tsp(5 g)
Cardamon: 1pinch
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)- cold
Butter: to taste
Brown sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Raw cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the persimmon cake, wash the fruits, cut off the stem and remove the peel , slice them roughly and set aside.
Now take care of the dough: pour the sifted flour into a large bowl, add the brown sugar , fleur de sel , and ground cardamom .
Add also the raw cocoa and stir to mix the powders . Cut the cold butter into cubes .
Add the butter into the bowl as well , work the dough with your fingertips quickly to obtain crumbs .
Butter a 10-inch diameter cake pan and sprinkle the bottom and edge with brown sugar. Pour half of the dough and level it on the bottom with a fork . Now pour the persimmons and distribute them with the fork or a spoon to create an even filling layer .
Now pour the other half of the dough to completely cover the filling . Bake the cake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 40 minutes. Once baked, take the persimmon cake out of the oven, let it cool before serving, dusting the surface with raw cocoa .
The persimmon cake can be kept under a glass dome for up to a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
Raw cocoa has a more aromatic and distinctly floral taste compared to roasted cocoa (the common bitter cocoa powder we are used to using) but if you can't find it, you can use bitter cocoa powder in the same doses. Fleur de sel or flower of salt is a prestigious flaky salt with a delicate flavor; if you can't find it, you can replace it with a pinch of fine salt or coarsely ground salt. The difference will be that fine salt will dissolve uniformly, slightly altering the overall taste of the dessert, unlike the flaky one that doesn't dissolve in the dough and gives a pleasant crumbly texture under the teeth.

