name:
Chicken and Apple Salad
ingredients:
Fuji Apples: 0.5lb(220 g)
Chicken breast: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Arugula: 3 ½cups(70 g)
Spinach: 2.3cups(70 g)
Pomegranate: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Mustard: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Apple cider vinegar: 2tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare the chicken and apple salad, start by cutting the chicken breast in half , remove the fat parts, then slice it into 1/2 inch thick pieces . Take a baking dish, pour a drizzle of olive oil on the bottom, and season with pepper and salt .
Place the chicken slices you have cut here, then also season them on the surface with olive oil , salt, and pepper. Let it marinate and, in the meantime, take care of the salad: wash the arugula and baby spinach , then dry the leaves in a salad spinner and set them aside.
Deseed the pomegranate and collect the seeds in a bowl: you should obtain about 5 oz of pomegranate seeds . Now proceed with cooking the chicken: heat a grill well, and when it is hot enough, place the chicken slices on it , ensuring they are drizzled with the marinade used for the brief marination .
Cook the chicken for about 4-5 minutes per side (or until it is well cooked and shows the typical grill marks) . Once ready, set aside the chicken and prepare the sauce to dress the chicken and apple salad: in a bowl, pour the mustard, add the apple cider vinegar , and then the olive oil ,
finally, add salt, pepper, and mix to emulsify the sauce well . Wash and dry the apples, cut them into quarters , remove the core
then slice them thinly without removing the peel . Take the grilled chicken slices and cut them diagonally into strips about 1/2 inch thick . Everything is ready to assemble the salad: in a bowl, place the arugula and baby spinach, the apple slices
and the chicken , drizzle with the mustard sauce , mix and serve your chicken and apple salad immediately !
The chicken and apple salad should be consumed immediately if it includes apples and is dressed. If you want to consume it a few hours later, it is recommended to add the apples and dressing at the moment. Freezing is not recommended.
Have fun varying the recipe with many other tempting ingredients such as walnut kernels or Grana cheese shavings. To dress the big salad you can also use a simple Vinaigrette .

