name:
Pasta Babbo Natale
ingredients:
Mini Pipe Rigate pasta: 5.6oz(160 g)
Tomato purée: 1cup(250 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 4.5oz(125 g)
Black olives: 2- pitted
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: 3leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare Santa Claus Pasta, start with the sauce: heat the olive oil in a pot, add the garlic clove and let it brown for a couple of minutes, then pour in the tomato puree , add the basil leaves , salt to taste, and let it cook on low heat for about 25 minutes.
While the sauce is cooking, bring a pot of salted water to a boil for the pasta and prepare the other ingredients: slice the mozzarella , then cut strips from one end of the slices to get larger pieces that resemble a stylized beard and smaller, thinner pieces for the eyebrows . Use the smooth nozzle of a pastry bag to cut a small hole just below the straight side of the larger mozzarella pieces (to simulate the shape of the mouth) and set aside the mozzarella circle obtained.
Now cut the pitted black olives in half and use the same nozzle to create small black circles that you'll use as Santa Claus's eyes. When the sauce is ready, pour the rigatoni pasta into the water, which should be boiling by now , and cook for 5 minutes.
In the meantime, remove the garlic from the tomato sauce and set aside about a ladleful, then preheat the oven to 464°F. After the 5 minutes, drain the pasta, add it to the sauce in the pan and briefly toss it over high heat to blend well with the sauce. At this point, transfer the pasta into the 4 cocottes, dividing it equally .
Place the large mozzarella pieces on top of the pasta in the lower half of the cocottes , then arrange the thinner strips horizontally in the upper half, to simulate the eyebrows . Take the black olive circles and place them between the two mozzarella pieces to simulate the eyes .
Add a teaspoon of the sauce you set aside on top of the mozzarella strips to create the hat and, finally, place the mozzarella circle you got from the mouth on top as the pom-pom of the hat . Now bake the cocottes in the preheated oven at 464°F for 4-5 minutes until they form an inviting crust : your Santa Claus Pasta is ready to be served!
Santa Claus Pasta can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of mozzarella, you can substitute it with mild or smoked scamorza. If you don't have rectangular cocottes, you can also use round ones and get creative in making funny bearded faces!

