name:
Passatelli with apple ragù
ingredients:
Breadcrumbs: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Eggs: 6oz(170 g)- (3 medium)
Lemon peel: ½
Meat broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Fuji Apples: 1.1lbs(490 g)
Fossa cheese: 6.4oz(180 g)
Shallot: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Marjoram: 4sprigs
Lemon peel: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Note + 2 hours of dough resting

instructions:
To prepare the passatelli with apple ragù, start by putting a good Beef Broth on the stove (you can also make a vegetable broth if you prefer, you will get a more delicate taste). While it cooks, focus on the passatelli dough: grate the lemon zest , being careful not to take the white part which is bitter, and set it aside. In a bowl, pour the breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan cheese , add the lemon zest ,
flavor with grated nutmeg , and finally pour in the beaten eggs along with a pinch of salt . Mix the ingredients with a spatula , or by hand if you prefer,
and work until you get an elastic and compact dough . If it turns out too dry, add a very small amount of broth, otherwise, if it is too soft, a little more breadcrumbs. Wrap the dough in plastic wrap, letting it rest for at least 2 hours at room temperature . This will make the mixture more compact and prevent the passatelli from breaking apart during cooking. After this time, remove the plastic wrap from the dough and place it on a lightly floured work surface, also dust the surface with a little flour and then form the passatelli using the typical iron tool. To obtain them, you will need to press and drag at the same time, this way the elongated dough will come out through the holes. Then detach them with a blade and cut them to 1.5 inches in length .
As you form them, place them on a small tray lined with a lightly floured cloth . Set the passatelli aside and take care of the apple ragù: clean and chop a shallot , wash and dry the apples, then cut them into quarters
From these, cut cubes without removing the peel . In a saucepan, pour the olive oil, the chopped shallot , and the butter
Let the shallot wilt over low heat for 4-5 minutes, then add a ladle of broth , pour in the apple cubes , salt, pepper , and cook for 10 minutes over low heat.
In the meantime, bring the meat broth to a boil and add the passatelli cook until they rise to the surface, it will take a few minutes. Meanwhile, the ragù will be ready, turn off the heat and season with half the grated Fossa cheese . Drain the passatelli with a slotted spoon directly into the saucepan with the apple ragù .
Flavor again with the remaining Fossa cheese, the marjoram leaves , and grated lemon zest , and serve the passatelli with apple ragù hot .
It is recommended to consume the passatelli with apple ragù immediately. You can keep the passatelli dough for up to one day, by storing it in the refrigerator wrapped in plastic wrap.
If you can't find the iron tool for passatelli, there are special presses available on the market, or you can use a potato masher with large holes.

