name:
Spaghetti with sage and walnut pesto
ingredients:
5-grain spaghetti  pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Romanesco broccoli: 1.7lbs(750 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 3 ½cups(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Oregano: to taste- dry
Brown sugar: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Walnut kernels: ⅔cup(70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tbsp(30 g)
Pecorino cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Sage: 4tbsp(10 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the spaghetti with sage and walnut pesto, start by making the confit cherry tomatoes. Wash them and cut them in half ; then place them with the pulp side facing you on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , spacing them well apart. Season with oil and salt
and black pepper . Sprinkle with brown sugar and crumbled dried oregano . Cook in a preheated convection oven at 284°F for 120 minutes, on the middle shelf.
About 40 minutes before the tomatoes finish cooking, start preparing the pesto. Pour the walnuts into a blender cup , the well-washed and dried sage leaves , and the two types of cheese .
Season with a pinch of salt and pepper and add the oil . Start blending with an immersion blender, pouring in a thin stream of water until you get a smooth and homogeneous pesto, which you'll transfer to a small bowl .
At this point, place a pot full of water on the stove, salted to taste, and proceed to clean the Roman cauliflower: remove the base and with a knife separate the florets . If they are too big, cut them in half .
When the water starts to boil, add the broccoli and cook for about 7 minutes; then add the spaghetti and continue cooking for another 8 minutes . At this point, your confit cherry tomatoes will be ready, take them out of the oven
and transfer them to a pan together with the pesto . As soon as the pasta is cooked but still al dente, drain it, reserving the cooking water . Transfer it to the other pan with the pesto, also adding the broccoli ,
add a ladle of cooking water and toss everything with the heat off . Serve and enjoy your spaghetti with sage and walnut pesto while still hot .
It is recommended to consume the spaghetti with sage and walnut pesto as soon as they are prepared; alternatively, they can be stored for a day in the refrigerator.
The confit cherry tomatoes alone can be stored for 2-3 days in the refrigerator, while the pesto, sealed in a glass jar, will keep for 3-4 days.
If you prefer, you can get a head start by preparing the pesto and confit cherry tomatoes in advance. If you don't like walnuts, you can use other nuts, such as almonds, hazelnuts, or pine nuts.

