name:
Sea bass fillet with cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Sea bass (sea bass): 1.8lbs(800 g)- (to clean)
Datterino tomatoes: 1.7cups(300 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Basil: to taste
Water: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Datterino tomatoes: 8- colorful

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 3
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the sea bass fillet with cherry tomatoes, start with the sauce: place the whole cherry tomatoes in a baking dish, then season with salt , garlic cloves , oil, and a few basil leaves .
Mix and bake in a preheated static oven at 450°F for about 15 minutes . At the end of cooking, transfer the roasted cherry tomatoes to the blender cup, add a little water, and blend until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream.
While the cherry tomatoes are cooking, take care of the How to clean the seabass : after removing the surface bones and fins, remove the head and slide a sharp knife along the central bone . This will yield 2 fillets to cut diagonally into 3 pieces each .
In a well-heated non-stick pan, heat a drizzle of oil first, then place the sea bass fillets with the skin side down . Gently press the fillets with a spatula to prevent them from curling during cooking and cook for about 5 minutes; when they start to turn white, salt them and flip to the other side .
Continue cooking for another minute . When the fillets are golden, cut the colorful datterini tomatoes into thin rounds . You are ready to plate: spread the datterini sauce at the base of the serving dish .
Place the fillets slightly overlapping in the center with the skin facing up , then arrange the colorful tomatoes around them, alternating them . Finish with a few basil leaves and your sea bass fillet with cherry tomatoes is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the sea bass fillet with cherry tomatoes immediately.
If you don't feel like turning on the oven, you can make a simple Fresh tomato sauce !
To prepare this recipe for 4 people, you can use a sea bass weighing about 2.2 lbs.

