name:
Apple Puff Pastry Tarts
ingredients:
Fuji Apples: 1.1lbs(480 g)
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)
Brown sugar: ⅓cup(80 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Raisins: 2tbsp(30 g)
Pine nuts: 1.1oz(30 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Oranges: 1
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(60 g)
Egg yolks: 4tbsp(55 g)
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Whole milk: 0.625cup(150 g)
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 7 pieces

instructions:
To prepare the apple puff pastry tarts, first start by grating the peel of an orange and set it aside; then squeeze the juice and pour it over the raisins (already rinsed under running water) collected in a small bowl, filtering it with a sieve .
Let the raisins soak in the orange juice while you continue with the preparation. In a pan, melt the butter over very low heat; once melted, add the breadcrumbs and toast them for a few minutes, stirring often with a wooden spoon. Then turn off the heat and set aside .
Wash and dry the apples, quarter them and remove the core , then without peeling them, cut each quarter into slices approximately 1/8 inch thick . In another high-sided pan, pour the sugar, and add the raisins with all the soaking juice .
Flavor with the previously grated orange peel and cinnamon powder, add the apple slices and pine nuts , and sauté everything over medium heat for a few minutes, stirring occasionally.
Let the apples caramelize and become flavored for about 8-10 minutes, then add the toasted breadcrumbs to the pan with the apples and turn off the heat . At this point, slightly roll out the puff pastry with a rolling pin .
Cut out 7 discs with a fluted pastry cutter, with a diameter of 4 1/3 inches . Take tart molds with a diameter of 3 1/3 inches and a height of 3/4 inch, lay the pastry discs in each mold (17-18) making sure to adhere well to the bottom and the edge.
Fill the tarts with the now lukewarm apple filling , place them on a baking sheet , and bake for 25 minutes in a preheated static oven at 356°F. In the meantime, prepare the custard that will accompany your tarts: pour the sugar into the bowl with the yolks and mix with a spatula ,
cover with plastic wrap and leave them at room temperature, then cut the vanilla pod lengthwise and scrape the seeds with the back of the knife. In a saucepan, pour the milk and add the seeds along with the split pod , turn on the heat and warm until almost boiling. When the milk is hot, filter it into the bowl with the egg and sugar mixture ,
mix well and then pour everything back into the saucepan . Cook the custard over low heat, stirring continuously until it reaches 180°F (using a kitchen thermometer is essential to check the temperature), and once the custard is ready, strain the mixture into a bowl placed over another bowl filled with ice ;
Stir with a spatula until completely cooled : this operation will quickly lower the temperature of the custard while preserving its taste, color, and texture. Once cooking is complete, take the apple puff pastry tarts out of the oven and serve them with the now cold custard and a few fresh mint leaves !
The apple puff pastry tarts can be stored in the fridge for 2-3 days. The custard can be stored separately in the fridge for 1-2 days covered with cling film in contact. Freezing is not recommended.
To fill the tarts, you can also use walnuts or almonds. As an alternative to custard, you can serve the tarts with vanilla ice cream.

