name:
Piedmontese burgers
ingredients:
Hamburger muffins: 4
Beef: 1.1lbs(520 g)- ground
Toma piemontese: 4.2oz(120 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1filo
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Potatoes: 0.5lb(200 g)
Rosemary: 4sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Eggs: 1
Anchovies in oil: 1fillet
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¾tbsp(35 g)
Parsley: 12tbsp(30 g)
Stale bread: 0.7cup(40 g)- only the crumb
Salted capers: 1tsp
White wine vinegar: 2tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the Piedmontese burgers, start with the meat. Pour the meat into a bowl and garnish with a dash of oil . Mix well and shape into the classic patty form, which should weigh about 6 oz; repeat this for all, placing them on a plate . Cover with plastic wrap and let them firm up in the fridge for about half an hour .
Meanwhile, prepare the potatoes: wash them thoroughly and then dry them. With a mandoline, slice them thinly, about 1/16-1/8 inch (alternatively, you can use a knife, the important thing is to get really thin slices) . Then plunge the slices into fresh water and leave them for about half an hour; this way, they will lose their starch; keep them aside at room temperature . In the meantime, prepare the green sauce. Start with the Hard Boiled Eggs , immerse them in cold water, turn on the stove, and from the moment it boils, count 9 minutes.
When the eggs are hard-boiled, drain them and rinse briefly under cold water to peel them without burning yourself , finally cut them in half to retrieve only the hard yolks, which you will sieve through a fine-mesh strainer with the help of a spoon: this way you will get a dense paste . Pour the stale bread crumbs, cut into pieces, into a container, add the wine vinegar and let them soften for about ten minutes .
Meanwhile, finely chop with a knife the desalted capers, anchovy fillets, and peeled garlic clove with the core removed, so you get a rich and aromatic paste; finally, chop the parsley as well . At this point, everything is ready. In the bowl with the yolks, add the aromatic paste, squeezed crumbs , and parsley, and mix everything. Finally, add the oil and mix again. Your green sauce is ready; keep it aside .
Take the potatoes, drain them, and then pat them dry well . Pour them into a bowl and season with oil, salt, and pepper , and finally arrange them on a slightly oiled baking sheet, and place 2 rosemary sprigs on top. Bake in a preheated ventilated oven at 340°F for 20 minutes .
When cooked, set them aside . Meanwhile, slice the Piedmontese toma cheese into 4 thin slices and remove the outer part .
In a pan, heat a little oil, in the meantime, take the burgers and remove the plastic wrap, season with salt and pepper on both sides. Cook them over medium-high heat for 4 minutes , then turn them and add a dash of water to the bottom of the pan , then place the toma cheese on the patties
and cover with a lid, this way the moisture that forms will cook the meat, leaving it tender and juicy , and continue to cook for another 4 minutes . Finally, move on to composing the burger. Take the bun and divide it into two parts. On the base, spread a bit of green sauce .
Then place the burger and spread a little more green sauce , then some potatoes , and finally close with the other half of the bun. Repeat until you finish the ingredients and here are your Piedmontese burgers ready: enjoy your meal!
It is recommended to consume the Piedmontese burgers immediately because once cooled and then reheated, the meat will lose its tenderness. If you really prefer, cooked burgers without seasoning and bread can be stored in the fridge for a maximum of one day. As for the raw meat, it is advisable to use it as soon as possible and not keep it in the fridge for too long. Freezing is not recommended.
If you don't like green sauce or want to try a different seasoning, use garlic-flavored mayonnaise. The potatoes can also become tastier, just sprinkle them with smoked paprika as soon as they come out of the oven! A lettuce leaf and a slice of ribbed tomato can enrich your sandwich.

