name:
Cod Livorno Style
ingredients:
Desalted cod: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Potatoes: 8.8oz(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
White wine: 1.5oz(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Peeled tomatoes: 3.3cups(800 g)
Yellow onions: 1
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make Livorno-style cod, start by preparing the sauce: clean and slice the onions , heat a drizzle of olive oil in a pan, add the whole peeled clove of garlic and the onion slices .
Let them wilt for 3-4 minutes over low heat, moistening with a little water , just enough to prevent the soffritto from drying too much. In a bowl, crush the peeled tomatoes , then pour them into the pan with the onions .
Cover with the lid and cook over medium heat for about 15 minutes. Meanwhile, start cutting the desalted cod into chunks , trying to obtain pieces of the same size (if you bought salted cod, you can desalinate it by following our instructions in the guide: How to Desalt Cod ).
Carefully flour the cod chunks , then heat a drizzle of oil in a pan and place the cod browning it on both sides for a few moments, gently turning it, salt , and pepper.
Deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate . Meanwhile, the sauce will be ready, now you can remove the garlic ,
then pour the sauce into the pan with the cod , cover with the lid and let it cook gently for about 20 minutes, if you stir, do it very gently to avoid breaking the cod. Meanwhile, peel the potatoes .
and cut them into cubes . After the 20 minutes of cooking the cod, also add the potatoes , cover with the lid , and continue cooking for another 20 minutes, always being careful to stir so as not to break the cod too much.
Wash and chop the bunch of parsley , once the cod is cooked, turn off the heat and flavor with the chopped parsley . Serve your Livorno-style cod piping hot .
Livorno-style cod keeps in the refrigerator in an airtight container for no more than 2 days. We do not recommend freezing.
In some recipes, the cod is deglazed with vin santo, which gives a more aromatic touch. As an alternative to peeled tomatoes, when the season allows, you can prepare a sauce made from fresh tomatoes. To make the cod tastier, some variations include adding olives to the preparation. Besides the Livorno-style cod recipe, the variant with stockfish is also very popular, known as Livorno-style stockfish , in this case, dried codfish is used, which also needs soaking before use and requires a longer cooking time.

