name:
Fried mushrooms
ingredients:
Champignon mushrooms: 2 ½cups(250 g)- to clean
Porcini mushrooms: 7.8oz(220 g)- (to clean)
Oyster mushroom or oyster fungus (Pleurotus): 7.8oz(220 g)- (to clean)
Breadcrumbs: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Water: ¾cup(190 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 3 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note the cooking time is intended for a single piece

instructions:
To prepare the fried mushrooms, first, focus on cleaning the mushrooms. Mushrooms should be cleaned with a damp cloth to avoid absorbing too much water. So clean the surface of the pleurotus mushrooms with a damp cloth to remove the soil , then use a small knife to remove the base of the cluster , and cut the stems of the individual mushrooms to separate them from each other .
For the champignon mushrooms, wipe the surface with a damp cloth to remove the soil , then remove the bottom part of the stem , and finally, cut them in half lengthwise .
Finally, take the porcini mushrooms and use a smooth-edged knife to gently scrape the stem to remove the earthy part , then remove the soil residues with a cotton cloth or a brush, and cut them in half lengthwise; for more information, you can consult the cooking school “ How to Clean Porcini Mushrooms ”.
Now you can proceed to prepare the batter: in a bowl, combine the flour and water and mix with a whisk until you get a smooth and homogeneous consistency, then add the salt . Pour the breadcrumbs into another bowl and heat the peanut oil in a pot.
Dip one pleurotus mushroom at a time into the batter using kitchen tongs , taking care to cover the entire surface, then let the excess batter drain and transfer the mushroom to the bowl with breadcrumbs, turning it on both sides to coat it completely .
When the oil has reached a temperature of about 340°F, fry the mushroom for about 3 minutes , turning it occasionally with a slotted spoon until it takes on a nice golden and uniform color, then drain it with a slotted spoon and transfer it to a tray covered with absorbent paper to absorb the excess oil . Repeat the same procedure for the other mushrooms: dip the champignon
and porcini mushrooms in the batter , then coat them with breadcrumbs and finally fry them in the hot oil ; remember to add a few pieces at a time to prevent the oil temperature from dropping. Once you have placed all the mushrooms on absorbent paper, you can salt to taste and serve your fried mushrooms hot!
We recommend consuming the fried mushrooms immediately to avoid losing their crispness. Freezing is not recommended.
Fried foods pair particularly well with sauces, and this case is no exception: for example, you can serve fried mushrooms with a fresh lime mayonnaise or with honey mustard. Alternatively, a quick squirt of lemon and off to the table...!

