name:
Amuse-bouche of polenta and scallop
ingredients:
Whole grain cornmeal for instant polenta: ¼cup(110 g)
Scallops: 8.5oz(240 g)- (8 mollusks)
Granny Smith apples: 0.9lb(400 g)- (approximately 2)
Water: 1.8cups(430 g)
Brandy: 1.75oz(50 g)
Brown sugar: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 8 pieces

instructions:
To prepare the amuse-bouche of polenta and scallop, start by pouring 1 tsp of oil into a baking pan with dimensions of 11x8 inches and set it aside . Meanwhile, put a pot with water on the heat. When it boils, adjust the salt and add about 2 tsp of oil , then pour the instant polenta flour while stirring vigorously with a whisk (or a wooden spoon) to avoid lumps .
Continue stirring constantly for 8 minutes to obtain a consistent and dry polenta . Then transfer the polenta onto the tray and level it with a spatula until it reaches a thickness of 1/5 inch, without spreading it over the entire surface . Cover with plastic wrap and let cool in the fridge for 20 minutes .
In the meantime, take care of the apples. Cut them into 4 parts and remove the core , get chunks of about a couple of inches and place them in a container . Heat 1 1/2 tbsp of oil in a pan, then add the apples .
Adjust with salt and pepper and cook for 3-4 minutes on high heat, deglaze with brandy and let it evaporate (be very careful of possible flames!) . Add the brown sugar and let it caramelize for a few minutes ; at this point, the apples will be ready, so cover them with the lid and set them aside .
Retrieve the polenta and, using a pastry cutter 2 1/2 inches in diameter , obtain 8 discs . Heat a grill and drizzle with 2 tsp of oil ,
then place the discs and cook them for 3-4 minutes on one side ; flip them and continue cooking for another 3-4 minutes ; at the end of cooking, set the discs aside .
Finally, cook the scallops. Heat a pan with the remaining oil and add the scallops, letting them cook for 2 minutes on each side over medium-high heat , season with salt and white pepper and toss frequently to prevent them from sticking .
Finally, move on to composing: place the polenta discs on a cutting board, position the scallops and then the apples . Finally, garnish your amuse-bouche of polenta with mint leaves, and you're ready to impress the guests !
Consumption is recommended in a short time, but they can be stored for 24 hours in an airtight container. You can prepare the polenta in advance and then prepare the rest of the ingredients at the time.
How to make the amuse-bouche of polenta and scallop more special? Try using more refined ingredients like black salt and pink pepper: they will give a beautiful color effect and make the finished dish tastier! The polenta scraps are excellent snacks: pass them in the egg and then in breadcrumbs, and finally, dip them in boiling oil!

