name:
Spelt and Yogurt Cake
ingredients:
Spelt flour: 1.4cups(170 g)
Greek yogurt: 1cup(250 g)- at room temperature
Granny Smith apples: 2
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 2- medium, at room temperature
Baking powder: 2 ¼tsp(10 g)
Potato starch: 6 ¼tbsp(50 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Sugar: to taste
Powdered sugar: ¼cup(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the spelt and yogurt cake, start with the dry ingredients: in a bowl, sift the spelt flour with the baking powder and potato starch . Once this operation is done, set the bowl aside for a moment.
In the stand mixer, place the butter cut into chunks and, while the mixer is working, add the sugar and the seeds from the vanilla pod .
Also add the Greek yogurt and continue working until you have obtained a frothy mixture. At that point, add the room temperature eggs and, continuing to mix, also add the salt .
At this point, also add the previously sifted dry ingredients, adding them one tablespoon at a time . Once you have added all the powders and obtained a smooth, lump-free batter , pour the batter into a 9-inch diameter springform pan, greased and floured .
Level the batter in the pan with the help of a spatula and then dust the surface with a tablespoon of sugar (14-15).
Now move on to the apples: wash them well and cut them into wedges (16-17), obtaining wedges about 1/8 inch thick .
Arrange the apple wedges on the surface of the cake, slightly overlapping them (19-20) and forming a circle, leaving the center of the cake empty .
Dust the surface with powdered sugar and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F, on the middle shelf, for 40 minutes . After this time, do the toothpick test: if the toothpick comes out clean and dry, it means that the cake is properly cooked, and you can take it out of the oven . Let it cool before transferring it to a serving plate and serving it: your spelt and yogurt cake is ready to be enjoyed!
The spelt and yogurt cake keeps for 3-4 days at room temperature, covered with a glass dome. It can be frozen after baking, whole or sliced.
To give your spelt and yogurt cake an even more special taste, you can add the seeds of a cardamom pod to the batter, which will enhance the flavor of the apples: it will be a great success!

