name:
Bavarian cream
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(200 g)
Whole milk: 0.67cup(150 g)
Egg yolks: 2oz(55 g)- (about 3)
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.25oz(6 g)
Vanilla bean: 1

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 11 min
Serving: 4
Note + the cooling time in the refrigerator (about 3-4 hours)

instructions:
To prepare the Bavarian cream, start with the English Cream base: pour the sugar into the bowl with the egg yolks and mix them with a spatula ; cover with plastic wrap and leave them at room temperature . In the meantime, soak the gelatin in cold water and then split the vanilla pod lengthwise and scrape out the seeds with the back of the knife .
In a saucepan, pour the milk, add the seeds along with the pod, turn on the heat and warm until just about to boil . When it's hot, strain the milk through a sieve into the bowl with the egg and sugar mixture , mix well and then pour back into the saucepan .
While the cream cooks over low heat, stir until it reaches 180°F (use of a candy thermometer is essential to ensure the temperature) . Turn off the heat and add the gelatin without excessively squeezing it , stir often to fully incorporate it, and finally strain the mixture again to ensure it is perfectly smooth .
Place the bowl in another slightly larger one containing cold water and ice and stir until the cream is completely cooled, then remove it from the bowl . At this point, pour the cream into a bowl and semi-whip with beaters : you should achieve a soft, somewhat frothy consistency .
Then gently fold into the crème anglaise, with movements from the bottom up , so you don't deflate the cream . Fill a mold 5 inches in diameter and 3.5 inches high with the mixture .
Let set in the fridge for about 3-4 hours . Your Bavarian cream is ready, dip the mold for just a few seconds in a container with hot water to facilitate the moment you have to turn it over to unmold it onto a serving plate . Garnish as desired: for example, we added a few raspberries !
The Bavarian cream can be stored in the fridge for 1-2 days at most, preferably covered with plastic wrap.
If you don't have a vanilla pod, it's advisable to use natural extract. Or, to your liking, you can scent your Bavarian cream with citrus zest.
The Bavarian cream, also known as Bavarian custard, is a very famous preparation belonging to French pastry. The base, which is made of crème anglaise, is common to other preparations such as pudding, recognized as a direct descendant. Despite its name, it must be remembered that the Bavarian cream originated in the German region of Bavaria. In fact, in Germany, already known in the 1700s, the Bavarian cream was prepared as a drink based on tea, milk, and liqueur. Only a century later, in France, did it become the famous spoon dessert we know. The or La? Although the word Bavarian in Italian suggests using the feminine article, it takes the masculine one because the French term is “ le bavaroise ,” indeed masculine. However, it is common, and not recognized as an error, to speak of the dessert in the feminine.

