name:
Sole rolled with herbs and olives
ingredients:
Sole: 1.5lbs(700 g)- (2 whole)
Taggiasca olives: 2.5oz(70 g)- pitted in oil
White wine: 1.8oz(50 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Water: 1mestolo- hot
Type 00 flour: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Taggiasca olives: 0.7oz(20 g)
Chives: 6fili
Parsley: 2tufts
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Thyme: 2sprigs
Sage: 8leaves
Lemon peel: 1
Parsley: to taste
Chives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare the sole, first fillet the two soles. To help you with this operation, consult our guide How to clean the sole From each sole, you will get 2 fillets. For the rolled sole with herbs and olives, start by chopping the aromatic herbs required by the recipe: chives, sage, rosemary, thyme, and parsley . Drain the olives from their preserving oil and chop them with a knife , then place the herb mixture and olives in a baking dish and mix.
Take the sole fillets and divide them in half , obtaining 8 pieces. Take each half and distribute the mixture of herbs and olives on top , then roll up the fillet
And secure the roll with a toothpick . Place the butter in a pan and let it melt over moderate heat, also add the whole pitted Taggiasca olives and the garlic clove .
Let it flavor for a couple of minutes, then flour the sole rolls and lay them in the pan and salt them .
Sauté for 2-3 minutes, then deglaze with white wine , pepper, and let cook for another 3-4 minutes over low heat. When cooking is finished, remove the garlic with kitchen tongs and transfer the rolls to a serving dish. In the same pan, pour a ladle of hot water or vegetable broth ,
heat the sauce to thicken it , pour the thickened sauce over the rolls, flavor with lemon zest and garnish with chopped parsley and chives, and serve your sole rolled with herbs and olives immediately !
We recommend consuming the sole fillets rolled with herbs and olives immediately, but if you wish, you can store them in the refrigerator for up to one day, sealed in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
Those who love the aroma of lemon can replace the wine with lemon juice to deglaze the sole.

