name:
Cod with pomegranate sauce
ingredients:
Cod: 0.7lb(300 g)
Marjoram: 3sprigs
Thyme: 2sprigs
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Sage: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Pomegranate: 12.3oz(350 g)
Water: 1cup(230 g)
Potato starch: 3tbsp(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 43 min
Serving: 2

instructions:
To prepare the cod with pomegranate sauce, start by scoring the skin of the pomegranate with a small knife to mark the sections and open the fruit more easily ; then deseed the pomegranate and collect the seeds in a bowl .
Take care of the fish: line a baking tray with baking paper, drizzle with a little olive oil, and place the cod pieces on top , season with salt, pepper, and the herbs required by the recipe: rosemary, thyme, and sage . Bake the cod in a preheated static oven at 428°F for 30 minutes. While the fillets are cooking, prepare the sauce: pour the pomegranate seeds into a saucepan (save some fresh ones for the final decoration).
Add 7 oz of water, taken from the total amount and cook for about 10 minutes over medium heat. Meanwhile, in a small bowl, dissolve the potato starch in the remaining 1 oz of cold water to dissolve it without forming lumps .
Add the dissolved potato starch into the saucepan with the pomegranate seeds , stir and cook for another 2 minutes. Turn off the heat and transfer the mixture into a blender jug , blend until you get a smooth sauce.
Strain the sauce obtained through a sieve , to retain the harder part of the seeds. Season the pomegranate sauce with salt and pepper and flavor it with marjoram leaves .
Meanwhile, the cod will have finished cooking, take it out of the oven and prepare the serving dish: pour the pomegranate sauce on the bottom, place the cod fillets on top, garnish with the reserved pomegranate seeds and serve your cod with pomegranate sauce immediately .
Consume the cod with pomegranate sauce immediately. You can store the sauce separately for 2-3 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
If you want, you can also use a boiled potato instead of potato starch to thicken the pomegranate sauce.

