name:
Eggplant Risotto
ingredients:
Arborio rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Eggplant: 12.3oz(350 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Shallot: 1.5oz(45 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
White wine: 2.1oz(60 g)- at room temperature
Thyme: 4sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the eggplant risotto, start by preparing the Vegetable broth to use hot. Alternatively, you can use water, but the risotto will be tastier with vegetable broth. Then proceed with preparing the sauté: peel the shallot , chop it with a knife , and set it aside for a moment. It's time for the eggplants: after washing them, remove the ends
then slice them first and then cut into cubes about 1.5 centimeters each (approximately 0.6 inches) . In a large pan, pour the oil and add the chopped shallot .
Sauté the shallot over low heat for 4-5 minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent sticking. Then deglaze with a ladle of boiling broth and let your sauté cook for another 10 minutes. After this time, add the diced eggplants
stir , and cook them for about 4 minutes, still on low heat. Then add the rice , stirring well to toast it along with the eggplants .
At this point, you can deglaze with white wine, always stirring to let it evaporate (13-14). Once the wine has evaporated, you can add a ladle of broth , stirring gently and adding new broth every time the previous amount has been absorbed, until the rice is cooked.
When the rice is cooked, add a pinch of salt : be careful not to add too much, as the broth is already salty. Now you can turn off the heat and add the butter , letting it cream for a few minutes while stirring. In the meantime, strip the thyme sprigs
and add the thyme to the risotto . Season with a sprinkle of black pepper and serve : your eggplant risotto is ready to be enjoyed!
It is recommended to consume the eggplant risotto as soon as it's ready and hot. If you have any leftovers, store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container, for up to 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you want to give your eggplant risotto an even bolder taste, you can replace half the amount of butter with grated Parmesan for the creaming.

