name:
Potato and Bacon Tortelli with Butter and Sage
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Eggs: 2
Potatoes: 5.3oz(150 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ¼cup(50 g)
Smoked pancetta: 1.1oz(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2oz(50 g)- (to grate)
Eggs: 1- (small)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 3oz(80 g)
Sage: 16leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes for the dough to rest

instructions:
To prepare the potato and bacon tortelli with butter and sage, start by making the dough for the tortelli: pour the flour on a pastry board (you can hold back a bit on the flour, adding more as needed while working the dough) and in the center add the eggs . Beat them slightly with a fork to blend the ingredients , then compact with your hands. If the dough seems too hard or doesn't incorporate all the flour, you can add one or two tablespoons of lukewarm water. If the dough seems too liquid, add a pinch more flour as needed .
Continue kneading the dough until it is smooth and compact , then wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest for 30 minutes in a cool, dry place. Meanwhile, take care of the potatoes: wash them and boil them whole with their skins on for about 40 minutes, until tender. Once cooked, drain and let them cool slightly.
Move on to the bacon: first cut it into strips , then into cubes , and finally chop it finely with a knife, to get very small pieces .
Heat a non-stick pan and when it is hot, add the bacon , letting it fry for 2-3 minutes until it becomes crispy . Take the potatoes, which should have cooled slightly, and mash them with a potato masher, collecting the pulp in a bowl .
Add the crispy bacon , ricotta , and grated Parmigiano to the potatoes.
Add the egg , season with salt and pepper, and mix well to incorporate the ingredients . The filling is ready: you can cover it and refrigerate it. Take the fresh pasta dough and divide the dough into two parts, placing the piece you will not work on immediately in the refrigerator, still covered with plastic wrap. Work the first piece of dough and roll it out with the pasta machine , starting with the largest thickness and working your way down to the second-to-last setting: you need to get two sheets of about half a millimeter thick. Then do the same with the other piece, to obtain two sheets of equal thickness.
Lay the rolled-out sheets on the work surface and start distributing a teaspoon of filling at a time on one of the sheets, forming little mounds spaced 2 or 3 centimeters apart and staggered (20-21).
Continue until you have used up all the dough and lightly brush the edges with a little water to help the sheets adhere better . At this point, overlay the other sheet
and, using your hands, seal the dough around the filling , so that all the air escapes . With a 2.5-inch cutter, cut out the tortelli
placing them one by one on a tray dusted with a little flour or on a clean, dry cloth. Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil, in which you will cook the tortelli. Meanwhile, in a large pan, melt the butter and add the sage leaves .
Salt and pepper and extend with a ladle of hot water taken from the pot of tortelli . When the water comes to a boil, add the tortelli and let them cook for a couple of minutes .
When cooked, drain them with a slotted spoon and add them to the pan with the dressing . Toss the tortelli with the butter and sage for a few moments, moving them very gently to avoid breaking them. Plate them, sprinkling with a bit of freshly ground black pepper before serving. Your potato and bacon tortelli with butter and sage are ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the potato and bacon tortelli with butter and sage freshly cooked and dressed. If you have any leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator for no more than 1-2 days in an airtight container. You can also prepare the tortelli and freeze them raw: freeze them first on a tray, spaced apart, and once frozen, transfer them to freezer bags. You can cook them directly from frozen, extending the cooking time by 2 minutes.
You can prepare your potato tortelli by replacing the bacon with prosciutto crudo, cooked ham, or even mortadella. For a more intense flavor, you can also add a pinch of nutmeg to the filling. If you have any leftover dough, you can use it to make excellent Maltagliati with Fish Ragù !

