name:
Morning Bundt Cake
ingredients:
Wheat starch: 1.1cups(150 g)- (wheat starch)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Butter: 8 ½tbsp(120 g)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 ml)- at room temperature
Orange peel: 1
Egg yolks: 1
Eggs: 1
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Cinnamon powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To make the morning cake, start by sifting the potato starch along with the flour and baking powder into a large bowl.
Grate the zest of an orange, which will be used to flavor the batter . Separately, in another bowl, place the softened butter cut into pieces, add the sugar , and beat the mixture with an electric mixer to obtain a cream .
At this point, add the whole egg and the room temperature yolk , and a pinch of salt. Continue beating the mixture, and with the mixer still running, slowly pour in the room temperature milk . Gradually add the dry ingredients to the egg and butter mixture, using a spoon .
Then mix with the electric mixer until you get a smooth, lump-free batter . Take a bundt cake mold with a diameter of 9 inches and height of 4 inches, grease the bottom and sides of the mold with a pastry brush to ensure all surfaces are well greased, a crucial step if using a decorated mold like we used. Finally, dust the entire surface of the mold with flour .
Pour the batter into the pan and level the surface with a spatula or the back of a spoon. Bake the morning cake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 40 minutes. Once cooked, remove the cake from the oven and let it cool before turning it out onto a wire rack .
In a small bowl, mix the powdered sugar with ground cinnamon , then dust the aroma mixture over the cake . Your morning bundt cake is ready to be enjoyed for breakfast !
Store the morning cake under a glass dome for 2-3 days. The cake can be frozen after baking, once completely cooled.
The morning cake can be flavored with the seeds of a vanilla bean or with lemon zest instead of orange zest.

