name:
Quinoa Cocottes
ingredients:
Quinoa: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Peeled tomatoes: ¾cup(200 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Basil: 5leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 6 pieces

instructions:
To prepare the quinoa cocottes, start by cutting the mozzarella into cubes , place it in a strainer set over a bowl and leave it like this for about 30 minutes : this way, the excess whey will drain to the bottom .
In the meantime, put a pot of water on the stove and bring it to a boil. Place the quinoa in a fine mesh strainer and rinse . At this point, the water in the pot should be at temperature, so pour in the quinoa and let it cook for about 15 minutes (or as indicated on the package) . Then drain and let it cool for a quarter of an hour .
You have the necessary time to crush the peeled tomatoes in a bowl , salt and add the basil leaves by tearing them by hand . Pour the quinoa into a larger container ,
add the tomato sauce and then the mozzarella cubes, making sure to save some because you will need them later . Season with grated Parmesan
and extra virgin olive oil and finally mix carefully to combine all the ingredients . With the obtained mixture, fill 6 cocottes of 3 1/3 inches in diameter and 2 inches in height, there's no need to butter them first .
Level the surface and sprinkle it with the last mozzarella cubes and then place all the cocottes on a baking sheet. Bake in a preheated oven, in static mode, at 392°F for 15 minutes; then continue baking for 5 minutes in grill mode at 464°F (if your oven cooks in convection mode, you can leave it at the same temperature, making sure it doesn't burn, then decide if you want to grill it) . Your irresistible quinoa cocottes are ready, enjoy !
The quinoa cocottes can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days and reheated as needed. If you prefer, you can prepare them in advance, up to a day before, and then bake them on the spot. If desired, they can be frozen after cooking, as long as fresh ingredients were used.
Remember to rinse the quinoa because the saponin on the surface makes it bitter. Instead of mozzarella, you can use other fresh cheeses, perhaps some primo sale!

