name:
Frolla Milano
ingredients:
Butter: 0.9cup(200 g)- soft but still plastic
Acacia honey: 5 ¾tsp(40 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Powdered sugar: 0.67cup(75 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Water: ¾tsp(4 g)
Fine salt: ⅓tsp(2 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)- weak
Lemon peel: - half

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the resting of the dough in the refrigerator (better if overnight)

instructions:
To prepare the Milano shortcrust, the butter should be soft but still plastic and cut into small pieces. Place it in the stand mixer with the paddle attachment , add the powdered sugar and the acacia honey which will make the shortcrust more golden and provide a more uniform baking, even for the base.
Start the stand mixer at the lowest speed: the butter needs to absorb the honey and sugar , but it should not whip. Stop the stand mixer, dissolve the salt in a small amount of water (about a teaspoon) , it should dissolve well so it won't be noticeable on the palate. Add the egg yolk to the stand mixer .
Add the dissolved salt in water into the stand mixer and start it again at a low speed . Slice the vanilla bean lengthwise and collect the seeds
add them to the stand mixer : note that 1 g of vanilla pulp flavors about 10,000 grams of dough. It is one of the most powerful natural aromas that exist. Grate the zest of an untreated lemon using a grater, scraping from the top to ensure only the yellow part of the zest is collected . Add the zest to the dough .
Sift the flour and add it all at once to the stand mixer then start the stand mixer again and pay attention to this phase: you should work at a low speed only until the butter has incorporated all the flour. To test the consistency of the dough, take a small piece and handle it for a few moments.
If your hands remain clean , the dough is ready. Then turn it out onto a work surface using a dough scraper and shape it into a cylindrical form
flatten it , and seal it well in plastic wrap , store it in the fridge for a couple of hours, or even better overnight so that the fats and sugars have time to stabilize, making the dough more workable with a rolling pin. Then take the dough out of the fridge and remove the plastic wrap, lightly dust the work surface and the top of the dough block
then roll out the shortcrust with a rolling pin until it reaches a thickness of about 1/6 inch; you can check the uniformity by running your index and thumb along the edges of the dough; if it is thicker in some spots you can roll over it again where necessary. Now, if you prefer, you can create a base for a jam, cream, or chocolate tart in this way: use an 18 cm ring to cut the shortcrust
and place it on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , first positioning the disc onto the baking tray and then transferring the dough. You can take a portion of the leftover dough and make a cord : this will be used to create the edge of the tart.
Roll it into a spiral on the work surface and unroll it along the perimeter of the ring mold ; then remove the excess dough .
Then press it slightly with your fingers and use the tip of a knife (or a teaspoon) to create a decorative pattern, pressing with the tip in one spot of the shortcrust and just below, continuing this way all along the perimeter ; then smooth the edge with a spatula, pressing slightly evenly along the perimeter (32-33); finally, prick the bottom with the knife point and your tart will be ready to be filled and baked.
For cookies, instead, lightly flour the work surface and the top of the dough again and roll it out with a rolling pin, until it reaches a thickness of about 1/12 inch , then cut out your cookies: we chose flower-shaped cutters . As you go, distribute them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, spaced evenly; this is important because it will ensure even baking. Your cookies are ready to be baked .
For tarts, it's recommended to fill them with jams and preserves, pastry cream or chocolate cream no more than 20% of the weight of the dough. For baking, it is recommended to use a static oven at 356°F for 22-25 minutes depending on the thickness of the filling.
For cookies, if a soft texture is desired, just a few minutes, about 6-7, in a static oven at 392°F, while for a more "cookie-like" texture, at 320°F for about 12-14 minutes.
For home ovens, the ideal would be to bake with the valve open if possible, or alternatively, place a ball of aluminum foil between the oven chamber opening and the door, to leave a vent.
You can store Milano shortcrust in the freezer for about 3 weeks and then thaw it in the fridge and leave it at room temperature before working it to prepare tarts or cookies.
To prepare Milano shortcrust you can alternatively use granulated sugar instead of powdered sugar in the same amount. The texture of the dough will be different because powdered sugar is much finer, from 300 to 600 times compared to granulated.
It is important in the initial processing with butter, honey, and sugar that the butter does not whip by incorporating air, as air is a poor conductor of heat and would end up compromising the baking.
To make the tart, it is advisable to use a pastry ring instead of a tart pan; in this way, once baked, you'll avoid turning the tart but just slide off the disc.

