name:
Apple and Chocolate Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Eggs: 5.8oz(165 g)- (about 3) at room temperature
Butter: 8 ½tbsp(120 g)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Golden delicious apples: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (to peel)
Orange juice: 3tbsp(45 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the apple and chocolate cake, first tackle the apples. Cut them into wedges , remove the core , and peel them .
Now cut the apples into half-inch slices , to obtain 1.5 lbs. Divide the apples into two different bowls, putting about 30 slices in one for decoration and the remaining ones in the other . Pour the orange juice into both bowls .
Stir them to prevent oxidation and set them aside. Coarsely chop the dark chocolate , melt the butter, and let it cool down. In a bowl, add the eggs and sugar .
Beat with an electric whisk until you get a light and frothy mixture . Add the cooled melted butter and work until fully absorbed. Also add the all-purpose flour .
Add the baking powder and mix with the whisk on low speed until well incorporated . Finally, add the salt and mix again .
Add the apples to the batter (still keeping aside the 30 slices for decoration) and mix with a spatula, trying not to break them . Line a 9-inch springform pan with parchment paper and pour half of the batter into it . Level with a spoon and place the chopped chocolate on top .
Pour the remaining batter over , level again with the spoon , and decorate with the reserved apple slices, arranging them in a radial pattern .
Sprinkle with the 1 oz of granulated sugar and bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F for 70 minutes. Always do the toothpick test before removing the cake from the oven . Then let it cool before removing it from the mold and dust the cake with powdered sugar before serving it.
The apple and chocolate cake keeps for up to 2 days under a glass dome. Once baked, you can also freeze it.
You can flavor the batter with lemon zest, cinnamon, or powdered ginger.

