name:
Bruschette brunch
ingredients:
Avocado: 1 ½cup(340 g)
Bread: 1- loaf
Lemon juice: - half
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Cherry tomatoes: ½cup(90 g)
Fresh scallion: 5.3oz(150 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare brunch bruschetta, start by cleaning the spring onions: cut off the green part , then halve each spring onion and cut each half into 3 parts . In a skillet, heat a dash of olive oil, add the spring onions ,
season with salt and pepper, and stew them for 6-7 minutes , then set them aside. Wash the cherry tomatoes (you will need 8), halve them , and season with oil , salt, and pepper.
Roast them in the same pan where you sautéed the spring onions , then place them in a bowl . Now, attend to the fresh chili: cut it in half
remove the seeds and slice it thinly , set this aside as well and focus on the eggs: in a bowl, beat the whole eggs with salt and pepper
heat a dash of oil in a pan and pour in the beaten eggs , cook over moderate heat for a couple of minutes and stir to scramble them . When they start to set, you can turn off the heat: the residual heat of the pan will be enough to continue the cooking. Once ready, they should not be liquid but neither overly cooked: they should have a uniform color, a soft, slightly grainy texture. Then transfer them to a bowl .
Slice the bread to obtain slices 3/4 inch thick, grease a griddle with a little oil and, when it is very hot, toast the bread slices for 2 minutes on each side. Finally, focus on the avocado: cut it in half
Remove the pit with a knife , score the flesh with a paring knife by making horizontal and vertical cuts , this will allow you to extract the flesh more easily using a spoon .
Collect the flesh on a cutting board, season it with lemon juice to prevent it from browning . Finely chop the avocado flesh with a knife, trying to create a spread by pressing the chopped avocado with the blade on the cutting board, to obtain a puree . Everything is ready to compose the brunch bruschetta: take a slice of toasted bread, spread the avocado puree over it
Also distribute the scrambled eggs, roasted cherry tomatoes , and stewed spring onions , finish by seasoning with the chili slices. Your brunch bruschetta is ready to be served .
It is advisable to serve the brunch bruschetta immediately. Storing in the refrigerator or freezer is not recommended.
You can use lime instead of lemon. If you don't like spring onions, you can omit them. To speed up the preparation, you can replace the roasted cherry tomatoes with sun-dried tomatoes in oil. The bread can also be toasted in the oven using the grill mode.

