name:
Red Berry Struffoli
ingredients:
Eggs: 3- medium
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: 5tsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Oranges: 1
Lime peel: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch
Raspberries: 2cups(250 g)
Honey: 7tsp(50 g)
Meringues: to taste
Dark chocolate: to taste- to melt
Dried raspberries: to taste
Raspberries: to taste- fresh
Sunflower seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + 1 hour of resting in the fridge

instructions:
To prepare the red berry struffoli, start with the dough preparation. Break the eggs into a large bowl , add the sugar , and a pinch of salt .
Also, add a drizzle of oil , grated orange peel (approximately a quarter will be needed) , and grated lime zest .
Then add the orange juice and start mixing the mixture using a whisk . Pour the flour all at once into the mixture
and start working it with your hands, still inside the bowl . As soon as it becomes quite compact, transfer it to a generously floured work surface and continue working it, kneading with your hands with just a few movements to obtain a smooth and homogeneous result .
At this point, wrap your dough with plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator to rest for an hour. After the indicated time, take the dough and sprinkle it with more flour, just enough to help with the dough's preparation . From this, cut pieces of dough into ropes about 3/8 inch thick, lengthening each piece of dough and slightly hitting it on the counter by holding the ends, to make the dough more elastic and easier to stretch.
Using a knife, cut each rope into pieces about 1/4 inch wide . Then, using the palm of your hand, roll each piece of dough one at a time to give it a spherical shape , typical of struffoli.
At this point, you can start frying. Heat the seed oil in a saucepan until it reaches a temperature of 340°F, and only when it is hot, use a slotted spoon to slide the pieces of dough into the hot oil . To avoid lowering the oil temperature too much, it is advisable to cook a few pieces at a time. Occasionally turn your struffoli using a slotted spoon, and as soon as they are golden brown, remove them from the oil (it will take about 5 minutes) and transfer them to a tray lined with paper towels .
Once the struffoli are fried, proceed to prepare the glaze. First, blend the raspberries using an immersion blender ; then, strain the pulp to obtain a smooth puree .
Pour the honey into a warm but not hot pan , add the struffoli, and mix with a spatula until completely glazed . Add the just-strained raspberry puree and mix to coat the struffoli evenly .
Sauté for a few more minutes , transfer the struffoli to a serving plate along with some of the sauce, and decorate with some crumbled meringue .
Add some dehydrated raspberries , then finish the plate with a bit of melted chocolate , fresh raspberries, and serve your red berry struffoli !
You can store fried but not glazed struffoli in a tin box for a week; alternatively, you can freeze them. Once glazed, it is recommended to consume them immediately.
It is recommended to make the struffoli large enough so they will be crispy but remain soft inside.

