name:
Queen omelette
ingredients:
Champignon mushrooms: 3.1cups(250 g)
Edam cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 3.5oz(100 g)
Parsley: 0.8cup(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 8- medium
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the Queen omelets, start by cleaning the Champignon mushrooms: with the help of a sharp knife with a smooth blade, begin by removing the earthy part of the stem , scraping it gently until the soil is removed, and remove any remaining soil with a cotton cloth or a brush. Slice the mushrooms thinly and set them aside.
Also chop the parsley , then heat a pan with a drizzle of olive oil, add the sliced champignon mushrooms . Sauté the mushrooms in the pan for 3-4 minutes, then season them with the chopped parsley .
The mushrooms are ready; set them aside . Cut the cooked ham into strips , then dice the Edamer cheese .
Now that the filling is ready, prepare one omelet at a time. In a bowl, break two eggs (to make an omelet), salt and pepper , beat with the whisk, and add some of the ham , mix well ,
then heat a pan well with a drizzle of oil , pour the egg mixture . With a spatula, push the still liquid mixture to one side .
When the egg is slightly set , fill with some diced Edamer and some sautéed mushrooms .
Now tilt the pan and give energetic taps on the handle with a closed fist while holding the pan handle firmly with the other hand to fold the omelet over itself . These taps will indeed fold the part towards the edge of the pan inward, creating the omelet. To make a perfect omelet with the traditional technique requires practice; the first few times you can help yourself with a spatula to roll it. Continue with the remaining ones. The Queen omelet is ready, serve it piping hot !
It is recommended to consume the Queen omelet immediately; if leftovers remain, they can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day.
Freezing is not recommended.
To make a perfect omelet with the traditional technique requires practice; the first few times you can help yourself with a spatula to roll it.

