name:
Moroccan Couscous
ingredients:
Couscous: (200 g)
Saffron: 0.03tsp(0.16 g)- (one packet)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Leg of lamb: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (the meat)
White onions: 3oz(80 g)
Fresh ginger: 1.1oz(30 g)
Carrots: 1 ½cup(160 g)
Zucchini: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Raisins: ⅓cup(50 g)
Precooked chickpeas: ½cup(100 g)
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Leg of lamb: - (the bone)
White onions: 2.8oz(80 g)
Carrots: 1 ¼cup(130 g)
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Coarse salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Ground black pepper: ¾tsp(3 g)
Water: 8 ½cups(2 l)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare Moroccan couscous, start by making the broth: after deboning the lamb leg, place the bone in a deep pot together with a cinnamon stick and add whole black pepper and salt .
Also add the carrots and onion that you have previously peeled and cut into pieces and pour in the cold water . Bring to a boil and let it cook for 40 minutes, skimming as necessary using a skimmer .
In the meantime, cut the lamb leg meat into chunks , peel and grate the ginger , and slice the onion .
When the broth is ready, strain it using a sieve , collecting it in a pot that you will keep warm . At this point, pour the oil into a large pan, add the onion
the grated ginger , and stew everything, occasionally adding a ladle of broth to aid cooking and prevent burning . Let it cook for 10 minutes, and in the meantime peel the carrots
and cut them into three pieces, making a diagonal cut . Do the same with the zucchinis, wash and trim them: cut them in half lengthwise and then cut them into three, diagonally .
Return to the sauté and add the lamb meat , salt , and cover the meat with the hot broth .
Cover with the lid and let it cook for 30 minutes. After this time, add the zucchinis and carrots and the precooked chickpeas .
Salt again , cover with a lid, and let it cook for another 20 minutes . When there are 5 minutes left before the stew is done, add the raisins .
Now take the couscous, spread it in a baking dish to create a thin layer, and add salt and saffron . Pour about 200-250 g of hot broth .
It should completely cover the couscous . Cover the dish with plastic wrap and let the couscous swell for about 3 minutes, until it has absorbed all the broth . Once the broth has been completely absorbed, remove the plastic wrap and fluff the couscous with a fork to eliminate any lumps .
Finely chop the parsley and then proceed with plating: in a large plate, pour the couscous and place the lamb pieces in the center and the vegetables in a radial pattern. Sprinkle with the chopped parsley and serve : your Moroccan couscous is ready to be enjoyed!
It is advisable to consume Moroccan couscous as soon as it is ready. If you have leftovers, store them for a maximum of one day in the refrigerator, in a closed container or well covered with plastic wrap.
Our version of Moroccan couscous is a version we might call 'Europeanized,' with ingredients that better meet Western consumers' tastes. However, if you love bold flavors, you can add cumin, a spice widely used in North African cuisine, with its unmistakable taste, but often not well-liked by Europeans. You can enrich your couscous with almonds and cashews. To speed up the couscous preparation, you can use ready-made vegetable broth, heating it before adding it to the stew meat.
The recommended couscous to water (or broth) ratio is 1:1, but it may vary depending on the type of couscous used, so we always recommend reading what is stated on the packaging.

