name:
Sweet Potato Crostini
ingredients:
Sweet potatoes (or yams): 0.9cup(180 g)
Eggs: 4
Bacon: 4slices
Salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sweet Paprika: to taste
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Lamb's lettuce: 0.67cup(20 g)
White wine vinegar: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the sweet potato crostini, start by peeling them . Cut 4 slices about 0.5 inches thick from the center, cutting diagonally , and place them on a baking sheet. With the leftovers, you can make a Sweet potato soup or simply bake them in the oven and serve as a side dish. At this point, season the potatoes with salt
and add a pinch of pepper , some sweet paprika , and place a sprig of rosemary on each slice .
Drizzle them with a little olive oil and bake in a convection oven preheated to 375°F for about 25 minutes. Meanwhile, put a pot full of water on the stove, which will be used for cooking the eggs, and prepare the bacon. Place it on a hot pan, and only when it is well browned, turn it over . Wait a few more minutes until it becomes crispy , it will take about 5 minutes in total.
Using tongs, transfer the bacon slices to a tray lined with paper towels and keep them warm. Now it's time to make the poached egg. When the water begins to boil (moderately, the fire should not be too strong), add 1 tablespoon of white wine vinegar and stir in the same direction with a whisk to create a vortex .
Then crack the egg into a small bowl and pour it into the vortex . Just 2 minutes of cooking will suffice, no more, and your poached egg will be ready, with no need to stir or turn the egg. Using a slotted spoon, remove the egg from the water and gently transfer it to a tray . Proceed in this way until all the eggs are cooked, always one at a time.
At this point, your potatoes will also be cooked, take them out of the oven and remove the rosemary sprig . Transfer them to a cutting board and enrich your sweet potato crostini by placing a bunch of lamb's lettuce on top .
Gently place the poached egg on top of the salad, season with flakes of coarse salt , and finish with the bacon slices, dividing them in half . The sweet potato crostini is ready to be served .
It is recommended to consume the sweet potato crostini immediately; no type of storage is indicated.
If you can't find sweet potatoes, you can replace them with pumpkin. For a vegetarian version, you can use Parmesan Wafers , breaking them into pieces, and instead of lamb's lettuce, you can use avocado slices.

