name:
Eggplant and Mozzarella Tower
ingredients:
Mozzarella cheese: 5 ½cups(625 g)
Eggplant: 0.8lb(380 g)- long
Fine salt: to taste
Tomato purée: ⅓cup(80 g)
Basil: 6leaves-
Garlic: ½clove
Coarse salt: 1pinch-
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Basil: 0.5oz(15 g)-
Pecorino cheese: 0.2oz(5 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1tbsp(15 g)
Pine nuts: 0.3tbsp(3 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare the eggplant and mozzarella towers, you can start by making the pesto that will be combined with the tomato sauce (if you already have homemade pesto, you can use 120 gr of it), you can refer to the procedure here: Genoese pesto (Pesto alla genovese) . Clean the basil leaves with a soft cloth. In a mortar (if you don't have one, you can use a mixer for the entire process) put the peeled garlic along with a few grains of coarse salt, start pounding and when the garlic is creamy, add the basil leaves along with a pinch of coarse salt . Crush the basil against the walls of the mortar, rotating the pestle from left to right and simultaneously rotate the mortar in the opposite direction . Continue until a bright green liquid comes out from the basil leaves; then add the pine nuts and start pounding again to make it creamy. Add the cheeses a little at a time, mixing continuously, and finally the extra virgin olive oil in a thin stream . Mix the ingredients well until you get a smooth sauce. Now that the pesto is ready, set it aside.
Continue with the preparation of the eggplants: wash them and remove the ends , then cut the eggplants into slices about 0.4 inches thick . Heat a grill on the stove, and only when it is very hot, place the eggplant slices on top .
Wait about 3 minutes, and when the eggplants are well roasted, turn them over and continue cooking for another 3 minutes. Once grilled, place the eggplants on a plate and set them aside for a moment. At this point, cut the mozzarella into slices about 0.2 inches thick and set them aside in a colander if the mozzarella is very wet.
Pour the tomato sauce into a small bowl, add the pesto , and mix everything with a spoon . At this point, all the ingredients are ready, you just need to assemble your eggplant towers. Take a first grilled eggplant slice, add a teaspoon of pesto sauce
and place a slice of mozzarella . Cover again with a grilled eggplant slice and repeat the same operation for another 2 times ; in total, you should make three layers using 4 slices of eggplant.
Once the last slice of eggplant is placed, finish with a teaspoon of tomato , a slice of mozzarella, and skewer the tower with a toothpick to hold all the layers together . Transfer the towers to a baking tray lined with parchment paper and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 10 minutes.
Once out of the oven, place the eggplant towers on a serving plate , season with a pinch of black pepper, decorate with basil leaves and serve them still hot .
Once cooked, it is recommended to consume the eggplant towers immediately; alternatively, they can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days at most, in an airtight container because the mozzarella might release liquid! Freezing is not recommended.
You can enrich the towers by letting your creativity run wild! We suggest trying to add some cooked ham or replacing the tomato sauce with sun-dried tomatoes!

