name:
Polenta Quiche
ingredients:
Whole grain cornmeal for instant polenta: 1 ½cup(185 g)
Water: 3 ⅛cups(750 g)
Coarse salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.8tbsp(40 g)- approximately
Chard: 4.2oz(120 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 4.5oz(130 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Eggs: 3- (medium)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to grate)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
To prepare the polenta quiche, start with the preparation of the base, namely the polenta: put a pot with water on the stove , and when it reaches a boil, salt and add about 2 tbsp of oil . Then drizzle in the polenta while stirring with a whisk
Lower the heat and cook the polenta over a slow flame for about 8 minutes, stirring with a whisk or a wooden spoon . When the polenta is cooked , oil a 10-inch diameter pan with about 2 tsp of oil , spreading the oil well over the entire surface with the help of a brush or paper towel
and pour the polenta into it , spreading it on the bottom and sides using a spatula or spoon to compact it well (8-9).
Once you have arranged the polenta , let it cool first at room temperature and then in the fridge for about 15 minutes, or until it sets. Meanwhile, move on to preparing the filling: wash the chard and remove the toughest part of the stems , then place them in a pan where you have added about 4 tsp of oil .
Cover the pan with a lid and let it cook for a few minutes: the chard should just be wilted. Once they are ready , transfer them to a plate and set them aside for a moment. Now move on to the champignon mushrooms: clean them with a dry cloth to remove the dirt, then cut the more earthy end of the stem
then slice them about a quarter-inch thick. Pour about 2 tsp of oil into a pan and add the mushrooms , which should cook for a maximum of 2-3 minutes . When the mushrooms are cooked, set them aside on a plate.
In a bowl, beat the eggs with a whisk and, still mixing with a whisk, add the fresh liquid cream and grated Parmigiano cheese .
Add a pinch of salt and pepper to taste . At this point, take the pan with the polenta and pour in the mixture of fresh cream and eggs , carefully filling the polenta base .
Place the chard overlapping and crossing them, as if to create a lattice pattern , then place the mushrooms in the empty spaces between the chard leaves . Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 40 minutes, and once baked, serve: your polenta quiche is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the polenta quiche hot, just out of the oven. If there is any left over, it can be stored for 2-3 days in the refrigerator, on a plate well covered with plastic wrap. Alternatively, you can freeze the cooked quiche, whole or already portioned, and reheat it in the oven as needed.
You can speed up the preparation time by making the polenta base the day before: once you have arranged it in the pan, you can cover it with plastic wrap and store it in the refrigerator. You can also vary the composition of the filling, using another type of mushrooms, spinach instead of chard, or adding your favorite ingredients.

