name:
Japanese Cheesecake
ingredients:
Cream cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)- at room temperature
Whole milk: 0.4cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 8.8oz(250 g)- (about 5 medium) at room temperature
Cream of tartar: ¼tsp(1 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(160 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Cornstarch: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste- to sprinkle the surface

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the Japanese cheesecake, make sure all ingredients are at room temperature. Then, immediately put some water in a large baking pan and place it in the oven: heat it in static mode at 356°F, so that the water will be sufficiently hot for the bain-marie cooking of the cake. In the meantime, take the eggs (at room temperature) and separate the yolks from the whites: beat the whites with cream of tartar and gradually add 80 grams of sugar while the beaters are running . As soon as the mixture is very frothy , turn off the beaters and clean them thoroughly.
In a bowl, pour the cream cheese, add the remaining sugar and mix everything using the cleaned beaters again . Then, slowly pour in the room temperature milk while continuing to process the mixture .
Once absorbed, add the softened butter cut into small pieces gradually . Once the butter is completely absorbed, and with the beaters still running, gradually add the flour and cornstarch ;
finally, add the yolks, still at room temperature. Be sure to add them gradually : continue working the mixture to absorb them . At this point, if you notice lumps of cheese in the mixture, you can strain the mixture through a large-mesh sieve , otherwise you can skip this step.
Take the previously beaten egg whites and add them to the bowl a little at a time . Gradually fold them in with a gentle movement from bottom to top with a spatula , making sure not to deflate the egg whites. Only when the first spoonful of egg whites is absorbed can you add the next one .
Finally, butter and flour a 6-inch diameter pan (measured at the bottom), 8-inch diameter (at the top), and 5-inch height and pour the mixture (16-17). Place the dish in the bain-marie pan. Bake everything on the lowest shelf of the oven and cook for 20 minutes at 356°F, then lower the temperature to 320°F and continue for another 70 minutes. Once the cake is cooked, turn off the oven, remove the bain-marie pan and let the cheesecake cool completely in the slightly open oven, then remove the cake from the oven .
Let it cool completely: don’t worry if once cooled you notice that the cake has relaxed a bit by deflating . At this point, place the pan in the refrigerator for at least 3 hours, so that everything can firm up well. Unmold on a serving plate , dust with powdered sugar ; enjoy your Japanese cheesecake!
Japanese cheesecake keeps in the refrigerator for 3-4 days. Freezing is not recommended.
How to make Japanese cheesecake more fragrant? Try adding some grated citrus zest, like lemon or orange, or the seeds of a vanilla bean!
If you have difficulty finding cream of tartar, you can replace it with a pinch of baking powder.
If you enjoyed the texture of Japanese cheesecake, don’t miss the recipe for Basque cheesecake !

