name:
Coffee Water Cake
ingredients:
Coffee: 4cups(330 g)
Type 00 flour: 2.4cups(300 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 6tbsp(90 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: to taste
Powdered sugar: 1cup(120 g)
Coffee: 8tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low
Note + the time for brewing the coffee and its cooling

instructions:
To prepare the coffee water cake, start with the coffee: prepare 330 g (about 11.6 fl oz) of coffee with a moka pot; collect it in a jug and let it cool. Put the sugar in a large bowl, then pour the now-cooled coffee . Mix well to dissolve the sugar and then add the seed oil, still mixing .
Sift the flour with the baking powder in a separate bowl and then gradually add the dry ingredients, a spoonful at a time, to the coffee, sugar, and oil mixture, stirring well to avoid lumps . Now proceed to oil and flour the pan: pour some seed oil into a 9.5-inch diameter pan ,
and spread it well over the entire surface of the pan, using a paper towel . At this point, flour it using a spoonful of flour and turn the pan upside down to remove the excess . Once the pan is oiled and floured, take the cake batter
and pour it into the pan . Once poured, if necessary, use a spatula to distribute the batter evenly and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 50 minutes. After this time, perform the toothpick test: if it comes out dry and clean, it means the cake is cooked. Remove it from the oven and let it cool . While the cake cools, prepare another 40 g (about 1.4 fl oz) of coffee with the moka pot and let it cool as well.
Now focus on preparing the coffee glaze: put the powdered sugar in a bowl and gradually pour in the cold coffee , mixing well to eliminate any lumps and to achieve a smooth, homogeneous glaze . When the cake is cold, remove it from the mold and place it on a plate. Pour the glaze over the cake ,
and spread it well over the entire surface using the back of a spoon . Decorate with some coffee beans and let it rest until the glaze is dry . Your coffee water cake is ready to be enjoyed!
The coffee water cake keeps for two days, covered with a glass dome. It can also be frozen, even in portions.
To give your cake an even more distinct taste, you can add cardamom pods to the freshly made coffee, letting them infuse while the coffee cools and straining them before pouring the coffee into the sugar.

