name:
Lemon and Ginger Water Cake
ingredients:
Water: 1.4cups(330 g)
Lemon peel: 1.8oz(50 g)
Ginger: 2oz(60 g)- (peeled)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)
Vegetable oil: 6.67tbsp(90 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Type 00 flour: to taste
Vegetable oil: to taste
Powdered sugar: 1cup(120 g)
Water: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Food coloring: - yellow, half a teaspoon

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the maceration time for the lemon and ginger

instructions:
To prepare the lemon and ginger water cake, start by peeling the ginger . Then cut it into pieces and proceed to peel the lemon with a vegetable peeler, obtaining the zest .
Pour the water into a saucepan and bring it to a boil: at that point, add the ginger pieces and the lemon zest . Let it boil for 10 minutes, then remove the saucepan from the heat. Split a vanilla bean lengthwise and scrape out the seeds with a knife .
Remove the saucepan from the heat and add the vanilla seeds . Add the pod as well , then cover the saucepan with plastic wrap and let everything steep for at least 2 hours (or even overnight).
After this time, strain the infusion with a sieve, collecting it in a pitcher . Put the sugar in a large bowl and pour in the infusion , mixing well to dissolve the sugar .
Add the vegetable oil , still mixing well. Sift the flour with the baking powder and add the dry ingredients, one spoonful at a time, to the water, sugar, and oil emulsion , mixing well to prevent lumps. Continue until all the flour is incorporated .
Grease a 9-inch diameter pan using vegetable oil and spread it evenly over the entire surface of the pan, using a piece of kitchen paper . At this point, flour it, using a tablespoon of flour and turning the pan upside down to remove the excess.
Pour the batter into the pan : if necessary, use a spatula to spread the batter evenly and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 50 minutes. After this time, do the toothpick test: if it comes out dry and clean, it means the cake is cooked. Remove it from the oven and let it cool .
While the cake cools, prepare the glaze: put the powdered sugar in a small bowl and add the water . Mix well until a smooth mixture without lumps is obtained and add half a teaspoon of yellow gel food coloring .
Mix well to incorporate the coloring and then unmold the cake, placing it on a plate . At this point, you can proceed with glazing: pour the glaze over the cake
and spread it evenly over the entire surface, using the back of a spoon . Decorate the cake with a slice of ginger and let it rest until the glaze is dry . Your lemon and ginger water cake is ready to be enjoyed!
The lemon and ginger water cake keeps for two days, covered with a glass dome. It can also be frozen, even already cut.
If you want an even more aromatic cake, you can also add a little grated lemon zest and ginger to the batter: they will enhance all the flavors of this dessert even more. For a more delicate taste, you can try the original version of the Water Cake !

