name:
Fried Green Beans
ingredients:
Green beans: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Water: 0.8cup(190 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Peanut seed oil: 2.1cups(500 g)- (for frying)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the fried green beans, start by cleaning them. Rinse them under running water , drain them, and then dry them with paper towels . Move to a cutting board and remove both ends with your fingers or a knife if you prefer .
Move on to the batter: pour the flour into a bowl and add a little water at first . Then blend with a whisk until you form a sticky mass onto which you can then pour the remaining water, continuing to stir .
Once you have obtained a smooth, lump-free batter , dip the green beans a few at a time and lift them with a fork to avoid messing up your hands .
Then roll them in breadcrumbs and continue until they are all breaded, placing them one by one on a tray . Meanwhile, put a pan on the stove and heat the oil. Remember that the ideal temperature for this frying is between 338°F and 356°F (measure with a kitchen thermometer). So, to prevent it from dropping too much, for a crispy and dry fry, immerse a few pieces at a time using a slotted spoon .
After 2-3 minutes of cooking, drain the fried green beans by scooping them up with the slotted spoon and place them on a tray with paper towels . Continue with all the others and at the end of cooking, if you prefer, salt them. Your fried green beans are ready to be enjoyed... very hot, of course !
It is advisable to consume the fried green beans immediately. If you want to store them, just keep them in a container, covered with plastic wrap, in the refrigerator for no more than 1-2 days.
You can customize your breading with spices of your choice, for example with sweet paprika or curry, to add to the breadcrumbs! Lump SOS: If our "anti-lump" method wasn't helpful, you can sift the batter to make it super smooth!

