name:
Honey chicken drumsticks
ingredients:
Chicken drumsticks: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (6 drumsticks)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Lemons: 4slices
Sesame seeds: to taste
Chives: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Chestnut honey: 4tbsp(80 g)
Balsamic vinegar: 1 ⅓tbsp(20 g)
Lemon juice: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Green Peperoncino: - half teaspoon
Fresh ginger: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare honey chicken drumsticks, take your drumsticks, make sure there are no feather residues, if there are, burn them off with a flame and then wash the drumsticks under running water. Pat the meat dry with a kitchen towel and place it on the cutting board, then season with fine salt and black pepper on both sides. Now pour the olive oil into a skillet ,
let it heat up and then place the chicken drumsticks which should brown over moderate heat for 2-3 minutes. Meanwhile, peel the fresh ginger and grate it , then turn the drumsticks with kitchen tongs and continue cooking for another 2-3 minutes, in order to make them golden on both sides.
In the meantime, take care of the sauce: in a bowl pour the honey , lemon juice , balsamic vinegar
the dried chili powder and the grated ginger . Stir the mixture with a teaspoon
and once the drumsticks are golden, pour it over them little by little with a tablespoon . Then add the room temperature water , cover with the lid
continue cooking over low heat for 25 minutes, turning the drumsticks occasionally. After the indicated time, remove the lid and continue to cook the drumsticks to thicken the sauce, it will take about 3-4 minutes. Meanwhile, remove the seeds from the fresh chili pepper and slice it into rings , also slice the lemon .
Once the sauce has thickened, turn off the heat and season with sesame seeds , chopped chives , lemon slices, and fresh chili pepper, your chicken drumsticks are ready to be enjoyed hot !
They can be stored in the fridge for 1-2 days covered; if you have used all fresh ingredients you can freeze them and heat them in the oven with their sauce, without the chives and lemon slices.
You can use lime instead of lemon. You can make a sauce with honey, using soy sauce instead of balsamic vinegar. If you don't like spicy, you can use sweet paprika.

