name:
Dry passatelli
ingredients:
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(120 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 4.25oz(120 g)
Eggs: 6oz(170 g)- (about 3)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Lemon peel: 1
Prosciutto crudo: 7.1oz(200 g)
Butter: 5 ½tbsp(75 g)
Meat broth: 6.3cups(1.5 l)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus 2 hours of rest

instructions:
To prepare dry passatelli, start by making the Beef Broth . While it is cooking, prepare the dough for your passatelli. First, grate the zest of half a lemon , then crack and beat the eggs in a small bowl . In a larger bowl, combine the breadcrumbs and the Parmesan cheese ;
add the zest of half a lemon and a generous grating of nutmeg . Also add the eggs
and mix everything together; you can use a spatula or knead by hand until you get a smooth and elastic dough . If it turns out to be too hard, add a little broth, while if it is too moist, add a bit more breadcrumbs. Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest for at least 2 hours at room temperature.
Once the dough has rested, remove the plastic wrap and place it on a lightly floured work surface. Dust also the surface with a little flour and then form the passatelli using the typical iron. To make them, you need to press and drag at the same time , this way the extended dough will come out through the holes. Cut them one by one using a blade and cut them into 1.5-inch long pieces , and place them on a lightly floured board or tray. Complete with all the dough this way.
At this point, strain the broth and keep it warm; then prepare the sauce. Cut the prosciutto into strips about 0.4 inches wide, place the butter in a pan , wait until it is completely melted, and add the prosciutto strips .
Sauté the prosciutto for a couple of minutes over high heat , then add a ladle of broth , a bit more lemon zest , and turn off the heat.
Cook a few passatelli at a time in the boiling broth until they float to the surface . At this point, using a slotted spoon, remove them from the broth and place them directly into the pan with the prosciutto-based sauce . Finish cooking the passatelli and gradually stir to combine them with the sauce.
Add another ladle of broth , toss the passatelli for 1-2 minutes and serve. Add a bit more lemon zest to each plate and serve your dry passatelli hot !
The passatelli dough can be stored for up to one day in the refrigerator, well wrapped in plastic wrap. Once cooked, the dry passatelli can be kept for 1-2 days in an airtight container, always in the refrigerator.
If you prefer, you can use vegetable broth instead of meat broth! And for a slightly smoky taste? Try using pancetta or speck!

