name:
Spicy Hummus and Vegetable Wrap
ingredients:
Whole wheat flatbreads: 4- ( 50 gr each)
Carrots: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Zucchini: ½cup(100 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 0.4oz(10 g)- sweet
Iceberg lettuce: 1 ½cup(80 g)
Beets: 1.8oz(50 g)
Emmentaler cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)- 8 slices
Precooked chickpeas: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Parsley: ½cup(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Tabasco®: 1tsp
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Hot Paprika: 1tsp
Tahini: ¼cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)- optional

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 2 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the wrap with spicy hummus and vegetables, start with preparing the hummus: pour the pre-cooked chickpeas , tahini , and parsley into a blender,
add salt and pepper, and season with hot paprika . Then squeeze the lemon juice
and pour it into the blender , also add a few drops of Tabasco , and one crushed garlic clove ; it's preferable to crush it because the blades might not chop it finely enough.
Turn on the blender and, while it's running, pour olive oil in through the designated opening to obtain a smooth mixture . At this point, add water based on the preferred consistency, for a less dense hummus, add more water.
Store the ready hummus in the refrigerator and move on to the vegetables: wash, trim, and peel the carrots , then thinly slice them using a mandoline
From the carrot slices, cut matchstick-sized pieces . Do the same with the zucchini: after washing and trimming, slice them into rounds and then cut them to obtain the sticks .
Trim the fresh chili, remove the seeds , and slice it into rounds . Divide the iceberg lettuce in half ,
remove the core , and slice it to get strips , then wash and dry them with paper towels. Finally, peel the beetroot ,
cut it in half, then slice each half with the mandoline and cut sticks from the slices as done earlier . Everything is ready to assemble the wrap: fill a whole wheat tortilla with two slices of Emmentaler cheese
Add the carrots , zucchini , chili
the beetroots and finally spread the spicy hummus on top . Now fold the side edges of the tortilla toward the center, then also fold the bottom part
and roll it up gently (34-35). With the indicated quantities, you can fill 4 tortillas. Once your wraps are ready, preheat a grill and when it's hot, lay each wrap on it and heat for 1-2 minutes on each side to toast the surface .
Once ready , transfer the spicy hummus and vegetable wrap onto a cutting board and cut it in half then serve it hot!
It's recommended to consume the spicy hummus and vegetable wrap immediately to avoid the hummus making the tortilla too moist. To get ahead, you can prepare the hummus in advance and store it in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to a couple of days.
Don't like the spicy note? You can omit the chili and replace the hot paprika with sweet paprika. If you desire an even creamier hummus consistency, add some plain yogurt. For the filling, choose the vegetables you prefer, we recommend opting for seasonal ones that can be eaten raw. If you can't find tahini, you can make it at home by following the instructions on our Hummus page.

