name:
Octopus in Tomato Sauce
ingredients:
Baby octopuses: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (already cleaned)
Peeled tomatoes: 3 ⅓cups(800 g)
Peperoncino: to taste- dried
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1tuft
White wine: 1.75oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the drowned baby octopuses, start with the baby octopuses: if you have already cleaned baby octopuses, rinse them well under running water (1-2). Otherwise, you can follow our guide on How to Clean and Cook Octopus . Once the baby octopuses are ready to be cooked, place the peeled garlic in a large pan, along with the oil and dried chili pepper .
Heat well for 1-2 minutes, tilting the pan so that the oil can be well infused with garlic and chili pepper , but be careful not to burn them. At this point, add the baby octopuses and let them sear for 2-3 minutes over high heat, turning them occasionally with tongs .
Deglaze with white wine and, using tongs, turn the baby octopuses and let them cook for another couple of minutes. Add the peeled tomatoes and parsley sprigs , then salt and pepper.
Cover the pot with a lid , and let it cook on low heat for 30-40 minutes, depending on the size of the baby octopuses. To check if they are cooked, pierce them with a fork: if they are tender, they are perfectly cooked. Remove the garlic with kitchen tongs ; the drowned baby octopuses are ready to be served !
The drowned baby octopuses can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. They can also be frozen, but only if you used fresh and not defrosted baby octopuses.
If you prefer a more intense flavor, you can use fresh chili instead of dried and replace the peeled tomatoes with canned cherry tomatoes. For this preparation, it is not recommended to use fresh tomatoes. Three details to check to recognize a real baby octopus: it must have two rows of suckers on its tentacles, it must have an intense color, ranging from brownish and pink to orange, and it must be medium-small in size, weighing around 3.5 oz. Moscardini, on the other hand, have only one row of suckers... cook them in the Luciana-style Baby Octopus variant!
The secret to enjoying these delicious drowned baby octopuses is handed down by an old Neapolitan saying: "'O purpo se coce dint'all'acqua soja". Indeed, the octopus releases its liquids which flavor it during cooking. But it's not just a culinary tip: this proverb is also suitable to describe a stubborn person who does not accept advice and often learns from mistakes at their own expense.

