name:
Spaghetti with sea asparagus
ingredients:
Whole wheat Spaghetti pasta: 11.25oz(320 g)
Sea asparagus: 0.9lb(400 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)- to grate
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: 1.1oz(30 g)- spicy

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Spaghetti with sea asparagus is, honestly, a really fresh twist. If you are curious about trying something straight from the Mediterranean coast, this is it. Seriously good stuff. People in Italian seaside regions have such a knack for finding new ways to use local goodies, and salicornia —also called sea asparagus—is proof of that. It grows in salty marshes, kinda looks like wild asparagus, and has this crisp snap and briny flavor. Super unique.
What’s awesome about spaghetti with sea asparagus is how it takes a classic dish and gives it a tender, beachy twist. And you know what? You don’t need a ton of fancy stuff to make it shine. Just simple ingredients with those salty, green stems make it pop. Imagine this in small towns along the Ligurian or Tuscan coast. Pretty much the essence of the place, right? The cooks there love tossing in whatever’s freshest from the shore or fields nearby.
Some folks think sea asparagus—also called samphire , sea beans, or beach asparagus—is fancy or tough to find. Truthfully, in Mediterranean kitchens, it’s just another wild plant that pops up in spring. It turns spaghetti into something way way original with its juicy, bright bite and deep green color. Looks stunning on a plate. The sea asparagus pasta recipe is super quick to make. The ocean flavors and a touch of olive oil do most of the work. And the sauce? Minimal effort.
The way the salty, moist sea asparagus pairs with the soft noodles is amazing. Every forkful gives you a taste of the seaside. Italian coastal families have been adding things like salicornia to their meals forever, which is great. They make the most out of what grows right outside their door. Trying sea asparagus spaghetti is a really really good way to see how simple, local foods can be both fresh and exciting. You can whip it up fast, but it still feels special. Honestly, it’s a reminder that some of the best Italian food is about using what’s in season and not being afraid to try something new from the wild.
To prepare spaghetti with sea asparagus, start by putting a pot of water on the stove, where you'll cook both the sea asparagus and the pasta. Be careful not to salt it, though, as this type of plant is very salty. As soon as the water is boiling, blanch the sea asparagus for 2-3 minutes (if you bought them packaged, there's no need to rinse them. In any case, follow the instructions on the package) . In the meantime, you can start on the seasoning. Remove the stem from the chili pepper and gently enter with the blade inside to detach the filaments .
Then tap the chili on the cutting board to release all the seeds . Cut into slices about half an inch thick and set aside . Then slightly crush the garlic clove with a knife to peel it more easily.
Pour the oil into the pan along with the garlic and chili and let them flavor for 1-2 minutes over medium heat . At this point, drain the asparagus, saving the cooking water, and toss them in the pan to flavor for a minute over low heat .
Finally, remove the garlic . Bring the water in which you blanched the sea asparagus back to a boil to cook the spaghetti . When there are 3-4 minutes left before the cooking is finished, drain them (leaving the cooking water aside) to finish cooking them in the pan with the seasoning
and continue cooking by adding water as needed . Once ready, turn off the heat and add the grated Parmesan , mixing everything thoroughly .
Then sprinkle with some black pepper , give it one last toss , and your spaghetti with sea asparagus is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume spaghetti with sea asparagus immediately. Freezing is not recommended.
These delicious spaghetti with sea asparagus are great as they are, but you can make them even tastier with some cherry tomatoes; we recommend cherry ones, which are very flavorful, but you can choose whichever you prefer! Before serving, make sure that, for your tastes, no additional salt is needed.
Sea asparagus inhabits the stagnant waters and brackish marshes of the Mediterranean area, but it is also common in Europe, Asia, and North America. Its color varies from bright green in spring to red by late summer. Its flavor, however, is fresh with a dominant salty note, which is typical for this plant rich in various minerals. But how do you cook sea asparagus? Surely they can be enjoyed blanched, fried, but also raw if very fresh. In all cases, however, it is recommended not to add any more salt to the preparation.

