name:
Summer birthday cake
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 3.35oz(95 g)
Eggs: 4- medium
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(65 g)
Cornstarch: 4 ½tbsp(35 g)
Baking powder: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Cream cheese: 1.67cups(400 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.85cup(200 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.7cup(80 g)
Cherries: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Berries: 1 ½cup(180 g)- mixed (redcurrants, blueberries, blackberries, raspberries)
Cherries: 3.5oz(100 g)
Mint: to taste- small leaves

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time for the base

instructions:
To prepare the summer birthday cake, start with the base. Coarsely chop the dark chocolate with a knife and place it in a double boiler over a saucepan with water for bain-marie cooking , ensuring that the bottom of the double boiler does not touch the water beneath. As soon as the chocolate is completely melted, add the butter .
Stir with a spatula until the butter is well absorbed . Once completely melted, let it cool slightly (it should not cool too much); stir occasionally and make sure no lumps form. Meanwhile, separate the egg yolks from the whites: for this recipe, you will need 145 g of egg whites and 72 g of yolks (about those of 4 medium eggs). Take the yolks and pour them into a stand mixer fitted with a whisk and add 60 g of granulated sugar (half of the total dose) , then whip everything until you get a light and frothy mixture. At this point, pour the now lukewarm chocolate mixture into the stand mixer bowl
whip until you get a smooth batter . In a separate bowl, sift the flour , cornstarch , and baking powder.
Add them little by little with a spoon to the batter , keeping the mixer on low speed, until you get a smooth and compact mixture . At this point, start whipping the egg whites until stiff peaks form, adding the remaining sugar (the other 60 g) only when they start to be light and frothy .
Once the egg whites are whipped to stiff peaks , incorporate them into the chocolate batter a little at a time: initially add a couple of tablespoons and quickly stir to soften the chocolate mass (if necessary, you can use a whisk at this stage) , then continue incorporating the remaining egg whites, this time carefully folding from bottom to top with a spatula to avoid deflating it. Continue this way until you get a smooth, lump-free, and frothy mixture .
Butter and flour a 9-inch diameter cake pan and pour the batter you prepared into it (16-17). Bake the cake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for 50 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the filling: pit 200 g of cherries with the appropriate tool or cut them in half with a knife and remove the pit.
Transfer the pitted cherries to a mixer , blend them until you get a smooth puree , which you will strain with a fine mesh sieve: this will result in a rather liquid mixture .
Now pour the cream cheese into a bowl, work it with the whisks gradually adding the powdered sugar , then pour the fresh liquid cream in a stream while continuing to whip. Once all the cream is incorporated, add half of the strained cherry puree ;
you will get a soft cream with a uniform color . The remaining cherry puree will be used to moisten the cake base later. After the 50 minutes of baking, perform the toothpick test to check if the cake is done, then remove it from the oven and let it cool at room temperature, then gently unmold it; it will take about 2 hours to cool. If you want to speed up the process, let it rest in the pan for at least 30 minutes once removed from the oven. After that, gently unmold the cake onto a cooling rack to cool faster.
Once cool, transfer it to a cutting board and cut it in half (28-29). Place the base disk on a serving plate, moisten it with the leftover cherry puree ,
fill with 1/3 of the cream , then cover with the other disk and decorate with almost all the remaining cream, useful for covering the surface well, smoothing with a spatula ,
and the sides, always using a spatula . With the remaining cream, you can spread on the surface to create a more scenic wavy pattern (35-36).
Finish by garnishing half of the cake's surface with mixed berries, cherries, and mint leaves (37-38). The summer birthday cake is ready to be enjoyed !
The summer birthday cake can be stored in the fridge for 2-3 days, covered with plastic wrap. It is not recommended to freeze the filled cake; only the base without the cream can be frozen.
The birthday cake can be made with other fruits of your choice such as strawberries or peaches in the same quantities indicated. For an even richer filling, you can add small pieces of fresh fruit to the cream. If you are short on time, you can make the base a day in advance, making sure to keep it under a glass dome to prevent it from drying out too much.

