name:
One-pot quinoa
ingredients:
Shrimps: 0.9lb(400 g)
Quinoa: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Fresh scallion: 2.1oz(60 g)
Celery: 1.8oz(50 g)
Shrimp bisque  (Fumetto di crostacei): 2cups(500 g)
Smoked paprika: 1tsp- dessert
Garlic: 1clove
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Leeks: ½cup(40 g)
Parsley: 5tufts
Yellow onions: 1.5oz(40 g)
Ground black pepper: 5
Water: 4glasses(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Parsley: 3tufts

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 1 hour for the fish stock

instructions:
To prepare the one-pot quinoa, start by checking the instructions on the quinoa package: if it needs rinsing, rinse it under running water and then dry it on a tea towel, patting it to remove excess water. Then proceed with the How to clean shrimp . Use your hands to detach the head, then pull off the legs and remove the shell, leaving the tail intact . With a small knife, cut along the back of each shrimp and remove the intestine using the tip of the knife . Store the cleaned shrimp in the refrigerator and use the scraps to make the Shellfish Stock .
Peel the onion and cut it into 4 parts, then slice the leek into thin rings. Melt the butter in a large saucepan and when it's melted, add the onion. Sauté for a minute and then add the sliced leek and garlic. Let them infuse and add the shellfish carcasses, then let them brown for a couple of minutes over high heat, stirring occasionally. Pour in the white wine , let the alcohol evaporate, and then add water until the shells are completely covered. Add the parsley, peppercorns, and season with salt, being careful not to add too much because the bisque is already quite salty. Lower the heat and let it simmer gently for at least 60 minutes. During cooking, skim the bisque with a skimmer , rinsing it each time to remove any residue. After the indicated time, the bisque should reduce to about half the initial liquid, strain it through a fine-mesh sieve, trying to extract as much liquid as possible .
Keep the bisque warm and in the meantime, prepare the soffritto for the quinoa. Remove the outer strings of the celery and the end of the scallion. Then cut it in half and finely chop both . Pour the oil into a pan, add the celery and scallion , and sauté for about 5 minutes over low heat.
At this point, add a ladleful of bisque (about 50 g will be sufficient) , stir and wait another ten minutes until they are well wilted. Add the paprika and stir to combine the ingredients .
Add the quinoa , stir and wait 1-2 minutes until it is slightly toasted. Then add the hot shellfish bisque , until the quinoa is entirely covered .
Stir with a spatula and cover with a lid . Let it cook like this for about 17 minutes over very low heat without lifting the lid or stirring. Meanwhile, prepare the seasoning for the shrimp: finely chop the parsley .
and pour it into a small bowl where you have already added the oil . Stir with a fork and set aside. After 17 minutes, remove the lid and without stirring the quinoa, lay the shrimp on top .
Cover again with the lid and cook for another 3 minutes. At this point, remove the lid, turn off the heat, and season the shrimp with the parsley oil just prepared . The one-pot quinoa is ready to serve !
The quinoa with shrimp can be stored for a maximum of 1 day in the refrigerator. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can prepare the fish stock one day in advance, making cooking the quinoa much faster! For a fresher taste, use mint instead of parsley!

