name:
Monkfish with potatoes
ingredients:
Monkfish: 1.1lbs(500 g)- steaks, already cleaned
Homemade bread: 3oz(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Lemon peel: 1-
Potatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Peanut seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste-

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the monkfish with potatoes, first prepare the breadcrumb mix: cut the fresh bread into cubes and place it in a food processor. Add the extra virgin olive oil , salt, and pepper ,
the thyme leaves , and the grated lemon zest , and pulse the processor until you obtain a coarse texture .
Now take the already cleaned monkfish fillets and remove the central spine . Grease a baking dish with olive oil, place the monkfish fillets inside the dish , and cover them with the breadcrumb mix . Bake the fish in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 15 minutes or until the crust is golden brown.
Meanwhile, you can prepare the potatoes: wash the potatoes to remove any soil residue and dry them well. Without peeling, slice them to a couple of millimeters thick using a mandoline ; stack the potato slices and cut them into fairly thin sticks . Heat the peanut oil in a saucepan to a temperature of 265°F-285°F (measure with a kitchen thermometer), then immerse a few potatoes at a time and fry them for about 5 minutes.
When the fries are golden, drain them with a slotted spoon and transfer them to a plate lined with paper towels to remove excess oil . After the monkfish cooking time has elapsed, remove the baking dish from the oven , and plate the fish along with the freshly fried fries: your monkfish with potatoes is ready to be enjoyed !
It's best to consume the monkfish with potatoes as soon as it's ready. If necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to one day.
Freezing is not recommended.
If the idea of turning on the oven during intensely hot days seems crazy, you can cook the monkfish in a pan simply with oil, salt, pepper, and lemon juice, and perhaps accompany it with a delicious homemade Mayonnaise . If instead, you're looking for an alternative to French fries, you can serve classic Roasted potatoes with garlic and rosemary, an evergreen side dish that everyone always enjoys!

