name:
7 Jar Cake
ingredients:
Natural plain yogurt: 1vasetto- (125 ml) at room temperature
Sugar: 2vasetti
Type 00 flour: 2vasetti
Potato starch: 1vasetto
Vegetable oil: 1vasetto
Baking powder: 3 ¾tsp(16 g)
Eggs: 3- medium at room temperature

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the 7 jar cake, take a jar of whole yogurt (at room temperature) of 125 ml and pour it into a bowl , then add two jars of sugar and start mixing them with a beater until you get a smooth cream .
At this point, break the eggs and separate the whites and yolks into two separate bowls , then using the beater again, add the yolks to the yogurt and sugar mixture until they are incorporated .
While keeping the beater on, also add the oil in a stream . Once it is well combined, place a sieve directly over the bowl , pour in the two jars of flour ,
the jar of cornstarch , and finally the packet of baking powder . Sift everything and still using the beater on low speed incorporate the powders,
until you get a smooth and uniform mixture . At this point, take the egg whites and beat them until stiff using clean and dry whisks .
Add them to your mixture in two or three stages: start by adding a small amount of egg whites and mix vigorously without fear of deflating the batter , then gently fold in the rest of the egg whites with rotational movements from bottom to top to avoid deflating the mixture . Once your cake batter is ready, butter and flour a 9-inch round mold (preferably springform); then pour the batter into it .
At this point , bake the 7 jar cake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 50 minutes on the lower-middle rack; if the cake darkens on the surface, cover it with aluminum foil during the last 10 minutes of baking. You can check the cooking by inserting a skewer; once cooked, take it out of the oven and let it cool slightly before removing it from the mold and serving it .
The 7 jar cake can be stored for 2-3 days under a glass bell. Alternatively, you can also freeze it whole or already portioned in appropriate bags!
Use a light seed oil, such as corn or sunflower; this way, the cake will be even more delicate!
Customize this cake based on your occasion by using the yogurt flavor you love most or make a Citrus 7 Jars Cake by adding orange or lemon zest. And for chocolate lovers? A jar of chocolate chips to add to the batter is a must!

