name:
Nutella Brownies
ingredients:
Nutella: 17 ½tbsp(265 g)
Butter: ½cup(120 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(55 g)
Eggs: 7.4oz(210 g)- (about 4)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(90 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: 3tbsp(30 g)
Butter: 0.4oz(10 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.7tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 22 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare Nutella brownies, first melt the butter in a small saucepan and heat the Nutella in a double boiler (or in the microwave for a few seconds). Combine the warm melted butter with the warm Nutella and stir with a spatula to mix well : this way, you will obtain a smooth and lump-free cream. Let the butter and Nutella mixture cool slightly, in the meantime, pour the room temperature eggs into a stand mixer with a whisk attachment (alternatively, you can use an electric hand mixer) .
Set the mixer to medium speed, pour in the granulated sugar , and whisk until you get a light and fluffy mixture . Now, while the mixer is running, slowly pour in the cooled butter and Nutella mixture
and continue whisking until well combined: don't worry if the mixture deflates, it's normal . Remove the bowl from the mixer and sift the flour into the mixture , then mix well with a spatula, making a folding motion from bottom to top .
Grease and flour a rectangular pan measuring 9x13 inches and fill it with the mixture , then sprinkle the top with chopped hazelnuts . You can bake it in the lower part of the oven, preheated to 340°F, for 20 minutes.
After the baking time, remove the pan from the oven and let it cool slightly, then flip it over onto a cutting board and cut the brownies into squares ; alternatively, you can cut the brownies directly in the pan, after letting them cool slightly. Your Nutella brownies are ready to be devoured!
Nutella brownies can be stored outside of the refrigerator, under a glass dome or in a tin box, for 3-4 days. You can freeze Nutella brownies once cooked if you used fresh, not defrosted ingredients.
To enhance sweet flavors, sometimes a hint of salt is needed: try replacing hazelnuts with salted peanuts and let us know if you liked the contrast!

