name:
Matcha Tea Pound Cake
ingredients:
Butter: ½cup(120 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Matcha Green Tea: 4tsp(20 g)
Eggs: 4oz(110 g)- (2 medium)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Butter: ½tbsp(10 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.7oz(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the matcha tea pound cake, place the softened butter at room temperature and sugar in a large bowl and work with an electric whisk at medium-low speed until the mixture becomes creamy ; in this case, it is not advisable to use a stand mixer because the volume of the ingredients is very small. Pour the eggs into the bowl one at a time while the electric whisk is running, allowing time for the first egg to be completely absorbed by the mixture before adding the next one ;
at the end, the mixture should be light and frothy . Sift the flour together with the baking powder in a separate bowl , then gradually add the dry ingredients to the mixture, one tablespoon at a time, continuing to mix with the whisk .
When all the ingredients are well combined, divide the dough into 2 portions weighing 10.58 oz and 5.29 oz in 2 separate bowls . Now, in a separate small bowl, sift the matcha tea powder with a fine mesh strainer and add it to the bowl with the 10.58 oz dough .
Work this dough with the electric whisk until the matcha tea is fully absorbed and incorporated, achieving a uniform green color . Transfer the white and green dough into two separate disposable piping bags .
Grease and flour 4 pound cake molds measuring 3.75 x 2.5 x 1.57 inches . Take the two piping bags, cut the tip, and squeeze dollops inside a mold to create a layer of green color and a white one ;
create a final layer with green dough dollops: it is not necessary to fill the molds evenly because during baking the dough dollops will spread and join together, creating a marbled effect . Proceed in this way for all 4 molds. Bake the pound cakes in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 30 minutes. After the baking time, check with a toothpick that the inside of the mini pound cakes is cooked, then remove them from the oven and let them cool in the molds ; once cooled, you can unmold them (to release them more easily you can use a knife blade around the perimeter of the mold). Your matcha tea pound cakes are ready to be served !
The matcha tea pound cake can be stored outside the refrigerator, under a glass dome, for up to 2 days.
You can freeze the pound cakes once cooked if you used fresh, not defrosted ingredients.
It may seem obvious, but the matcha tea pound cake is perfect accompanied by a good cup of tea! If you wish, you can flavor the dough by adding a vanilla bean or lemon or lime zest. If, on the other hand, you prefer to avoid the marbled effect to get a uniformly colored pound cake, you just need to increase the matcha tea dose by 0.35 oz and make a single dough!
The typical color of matcha tea is obtained thanks to a special cultivation method of tea plants that are grown in the shade: in fact, it is also referred to as "shade tea." In this way, the leaves produce a greater amount of chlorophyll and take on their characteristic bright green color, as well as an even more intense fragrance. Green tea is generally rich in antioxidants, but you might not know that the contribution of a cup of matcha tea is about 137 times higher than other types of tea!

