name:
Baked Zucchini Frittata
ingredients:
Eggs: 15.2oz(430 g)- (8 medium)
Zucchini: 1.1lbs(500 g)- with flower
Grated cheese: 1cup(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the baked zucchini frittata, start by washing the zucchinis and separating them from the flowers . Open the flowers to remove the pistil and then gently detach them to get 3-4 petals from each flower .
Place them on a clean cloth to dry . Meanwhile, trim the zucchinis and slice them into very thin rounds .
In a large bowl, beat the eggs and add a pinch of salt , some pepper, abundant hand-torn basil , and the extra virgin olive oil .
Add the grated cheese and briefly mix again with a whisk . Now add the sliced zucchini rounds .
Also add the flowers, reserving just a few for the frittata's surface , and gently incorporate them into the egg mixture . Cover a 12.6-inch diameter pan with a sheet of damp crumpled parchment paper - this will help it adhere perfectly - and brush with a thin layer of oil .
Pour the egg and zucchini mixture , spread it evenly, and garnish the surface with the remaining flowers and drizzle with a little oil .
Finish with a grind of pepper and bake at 350°F in the middle rack of the static oven for about 35 minutes . If needed, move the pan to the top rack for the last 5 minutes for better browning. Your baked zucchini frittata is ready , you can enjoy it hot, warm, or cold!
The baked zucchini frittata can be stored in the fridge, covered, for 2 days. It can be frozen once cooked.
If the frittata appears puffier right out of the oven and then tends to deflate, don't worry, it's completely normal.
You can easily use zucchinis without flowers, still adding them raw as long as they are compact and low-water varieties like trombetta, Tuscan, white, or baby zucchinis. If using common green zucchinis, especially out of season, they might be bitter and too watery if added raw to the mixture; in that case, it's better to sauté them before adding to the egg mixture.

