name:
Quinoa Salad
ingredients:
Quinoa: 1.1cups(200 g)
Green beans: 0.67cup(150 g)
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(150 g)- small
Sardinian camone tomato: 5.6oz(160 g)
Radishes: 5.6oz(160 g)
Primosale cheese: 6.3oz(180 g)
Mint: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the quinoa salad, first place a pot full of water on the stove and bring it to a boil. Meanwhile, rinse the quinoa under running water; wash the green beans and trim the ends, then cut them into pieces 3/4 inch long . When the water boils, add salt, then add both the quinoa and the green beans and cook for 10 minutes over medium heat without the lid (for the cooking time of quinoa, you can follow the instructions on the package).
While the quinoa and green beans are cooking, wash the radishes, trim the top and bottom ends , and slice them very thinly using a mandoline or a knife. Now wash the zucchini and grate them with a coarse grater ,
then wash the tomatoes and cut them into cubes . After the cooking time has elapsed, drain the quinoa and green beans in a fine-mesh sieve and rinse them briefly under cold running water to cool them and stop the cooking process , then place the sieve over a bowl to allow excess water to drain .
Meanwhile, cut the primo sale cheese into cubes and roughly chop the mint leaves with a knife . Now you can assemble your salad: in a large bowl, add the quinoa and green beans, then add the zucchini ,
the radishes , the tomatoes , and the primo sale ;
season with extra virgin olive oil and adjust with salt and pepper. Stir to mix well and finally add the chopped mint leaves , stir again and your quinoa salad is ready to be enjoyed !
The quinoa salad can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
Let your imagination and colors run free! Feel free to choose your favorite vegetables and cheeses to enrich or replace the ingredients in the quinoa salad... if you miss a crunchy note, add some nuts like almonds, pistachios, or walnuts!
Quinoa can be found in the more well-stocked supermarkets next to cereals (but it is not a cereal!), in fair trade shops, or in stores specializing in the sale of organic products.

