name:
Acai bowl
ingredients:
Acai powder: 1.3tsp(5 g)
Greek yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Coconut milk: 2tbsp(30 g)
Honey: 2tsp(15 g)
Coconut: ½cup(35 g)- fresh
Bananas: 1- baby
Corn flakes: 1cup(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the acai bowl, first pour the Greek yogurt into a bowl along with the coconut milk , then add the acai powder and mix well until you get a uniform color .
Sweeten the yogurt mixture with honey and mix again , then transfer it to a serving bowl. The final consistency should be creamy and homogeneous, thick enough not to drip from the spoon, but not too compact : if the mixture turns out too thick or too liquid, you can add more or less coconut milk to reach the optimal consistency.
Now slice the fresh coconut into flakes , then peel the banana and cut it into slices about half a centimeter (approx. 1/4 inch) thick .
Distribute the cornflakes over the yogurt and finally decorate with banana slices and coconut flakes: your acai bowl is ready to be enjoyed !
We recommend consuming the acai bowl as soon as it is ready. If necessary, it can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
The version we proposed in this recipe is just one of the countless variations of acai bowl you can find around: instead of coconut milk, you can use soy or almond milk to thin the yogurt and acai mixture, then garnish the bowl with fruits of your choice (preferably seasonal), muesli, nuts, pumpkin seeds, goji berries, or even vegetables like carrots or spinach... anything you think might give you an extra boost to start the day!
You can also make the fruit puree base for this bowl with other types of dried fruits instead of acai.
Acai is a fruit native to the Amazon and has been a staple in the diet of native Brazilian populations for years, thanks to its significant nutrient content: the berries resemble large blueberries with a big pit inside. Due to the perishability of fresh berries, in Italy this fruit is only available in powder or frozen puree form, juice, jam, or infusions, and can be purchased in pharmacies, herbal shops, stores specializing in organic products, or online.

