name:
Bagel
ingredients:
Water: 0.9cup(205 g)- at room temperature
Type 0 flour: 2 ½cups(350 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
Brewer's yeast: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Malt: 0.4oz(10 g)
Sesame seeds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + 5 h of rising

instructions:
To make the bagels, start by sifting the flour into a bowl , then add the dry yeast and malt .
Also, add the room temperature water gradually and start kneading with your hands ; once you have a homogeneous mixture, you can add the salt and continue working it until it is completely absorbed.
At this point, transfer the mixture to a work surface and knead it for about 5-6 minutes until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough; then place it in a large bowl , cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise for about 4 hours at a temperature of 82-86°F (even the oven turned off with the light on will be fine). If you want to avoid plastic wrap, you can place the dough on a cutting board and cover it with a large bowl to keep it well covered and prevent contact with air that would create a crust on the surface, making leavening more difficult.
Once the dough has tripled in volume , transfer it back to the work surface with the help of a scraper and use your hands to form a log .
Cut this into 6 pieces of about 3 oz each; you can use a scraper or a sharp knife to cut them . Using the palm of your hand, transform each piece into a ball, applying slight pressure against the work surface and rotating . Repeat for all 6 balls, then cover with a kitchen towel and let rest for about ten minutes.
At this point, by inserting your fingers in the center of each sphere and stretching them outward, you'll create your bagels, about 4 inches in diameter . As you go, place the bagels on a tray lined with parchment paper , then let them rise for another 40-50 minutes again at a temperature of 82-86°F or in the oven turned off with the light on, until they have doubled in volume . Meanwhile, place a pot with water on the stove and bring to a boil.
Cut squares of parchment paper around each bagel , making it easier to lift them to dip into the boiling water one at a time . The parchment paper will detach itself, so just remove it with kitchen tongs .
Cook the bagels for about 20 seconds on each side , then use a slotted spoon to drain them and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Cover the surface with sesame seeds and bake in a preheated static oven at 428°F for 30 minutes. Once cooked and well browned, take them out of the oven and let them cool slightly before serving .
Bagels can be stored for 1-2 days at most in a paper bag, or they can be frozen in suitable bags once cooked and completely cooled. In both cases, it is good to reheat them in the oven before serving.
If you need to prolong the rising time, use only 2 g of dry yeast. Once the dough is prepared, let it rise for an hour at a temperature of 82-86°F (or in the oven turned off with the light on) and then move it to the refrigerator overnight. The next day, before forming the bagels and continuing with the recipe, let the dough acclimate for at least 2 hours again at a temperature of 82-86°F or in the oven turned off with the light on.
There are many legends surrounding the origin of bagels. It is certain that bagels are a bread of Jewish origin. Some stories say that bagels were devised by a Pole on the occasion of a war victory and were then exported to the United States, particularly to New York, by Jewish immigrants in the 20th century. Another legend says that bagels were created by a Krakow baker in 1863, to honor King Jean Sobiesky III for preventing the Turks from invading Vienna. The baker supposedly created this stirrup-shaped bread (bugel in German) in honor of the victorious knight.
Try the recipe for Jerusalem bagel , a distant cousin!

