name:
Yellow Plum Jam
ingredients:
Plums: 2.3lbs(1050 g)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Lemon juice: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 25
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour of maceration of the plums and the time for sanitizing the jars

instructions:
To prepare the yellow plum jam, start by preparing the fruit: wash the plums, cut them in half with a knife , remove the stone and cut them into quarters . Once pitted, the total weight of the plums will be about 2.2 lbs.
Add the sugar and mix well . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap or a plate and let it macerate at room temperature for about an hour. While waiting for the fruit to macerate, you can proceed with the sterilization of jars and lids, as indicated in the Health Ministry guidelines at the end of the recipe.
After the maceration time, pour the plums with all their liquid into an aluminum pot with a double bottom and high sides and turn the heat to maximum . Once it reaches a boil, lower the heat to maintain a steady boil, but not too strong . Let it cook for about 45 minutes, stirring as little as possible until it reaches 226°F. Use a kitchen thermometer to measure the exact temperature .
After 45 minutes, remove from heat and add the juice of half a lemon and mix . The jam should appear thick with some visible fruit pieces. At this point, you can start jarring in the sterilized jars, pouring the hot jam with a ladle .
Fill the jars leaving at least 0.4 inches of space from the lid ; screw the sterilized lids on tightly but not excessively and let cool . With the heat of the jam, a vacuum will be created, allowing the product to be preserved for a long time. Once the jars have cooled, check if the vacuum has occurred correctly: you can press the center of the lid, and if you don't hear the classic "click-clack," the vacuum will have occurred. Your yellow plum jam is ready to be enjoyed!
The yellow plum jam can be stored for about 3 months, provided the vacuum has occurred correctly and the jars are stored in a cool, dry place, away from light and heat sources. It is recommended to wait at least 2-3 weeks before consuming the jam. Once each jar is opened, store it in the refrigerator and consume it within 3-4 days at most.
At the end of cooking, you can add some dried cornflower petals: your yellow plum jam will have an even more special taste, color, and aroma!
Homemade preparation of preserves and jams can pose health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the necessary conditions and measures to ensure the safety and suitability of food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures are able to guarantee to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to strictly follow food safety instructions to reduce risks, but it must always be kept in mind that the same food safety as professionally produced preserves and jams can never be achieved. For the correct preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the Health Ministry guidelines .
From a botanical point of view, there is no difference between plum and prune. In general, the fresh fruit is called a plum, while it is called a prune when dried. There are many varieties of plums that can have different colors, from purple to light green, passing through red and yellow. And it is the yellow plum that has earned a precious name: Drop of Gold.

