name:
Stuffed Bagel
ingredients:
Water: 0.9cup(205 g)- at room temperature
Type 0 flour: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(4 g)
Malt: 0.4oz(10 g)
Sesame seeds: to taste
Beef: 2.5oz(70 g)- sliced roast beef
Goat: 2.8oz(80 g)
Zucchini: ¾cup(100 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 2.3oz(65 g)
Lettuce: 2cups(50 g)- baby
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Smoked Salmon: 3.5oz(100 g)
Zucchini: 0.8cup(100 g)
Fine salt: - to taste
Lettuce: 0.9cup(50 g)
Zucchini: 0.9cup(100 g)
Lettuce: 1cup(50 g)
Radishes: 0.9oz(25 g)
Carrots: ¼cup(65 g)
Cucumbers: 4.1tbsp(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus 5 hours of leavening

instructions:
To prepare the stuffed bagels, start with the dough: sift the flour into a bowl, then add the dry yeast and the malt . Gradually add the room temperature water
and start kneading with your hands; once you have a homogeneous mixture, you can add the salt . Continue working until it's completely absorbed. Now transfer the mixture to a work surface and knead it for about 5-6 minutes until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough; then place it in a large bowl, cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for about 4 hours at a temperature of 82-86°F. Alternatively, you can place the dough in the oven with the light on. The wrap keeps the dough from coming into contact with the air, but if you prefer, you can place it on a work surface and cover it with a large bowl.
Once it has tripled in size , transfer the dough onto the work surface and shape it into a log . From this, cut 6 pieces of 3 oz each; you can use a dough scraper or a sharp knife to cut them .
Using the palm of your hand, roll each piece on the work surface to form balls, applying light pressure against the surface . Repeat the operation for all 6 pieces, then cover them with a kitchen towel and let them rest for about ten minutes. At this point, take each ball, insert your fingers into the center of each sphere, and stretch outward to create rings; you should obtain rings about 4 inches in diameter .
As you go, place the bagels on a tray lined with parchment paper , then let them rise for another 40-50 minutes at the same temperature of 82-86°F or in the oven with the light on, until they have doubled in size. At this point, place a pot full of water on the heat and bring it to a boil. Cut parchment paper squares around each bagel , making it easier to lift them and drop them one by one into the boiling water. The parchment will detach on its own, so you just need to remove it with kitchen tongs .
Cook the bagels for about 20 seconds per side, then use a skimmer to drain them and transfer them to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Sprinkle sesame seeds over the surface and bake in a preheated static oven at 428°F for 30 minutes. Once done, remove the bagels from the oven and let them cool slightly.
Proceed to make the filling for the bagels; we have chosen three types of fillings that will have goat cheese, zucchini, round tomatoes, and lettuce as a common base: wash and trim the zucchini, then slice them with a mandolin, being careful not to select the thinnest setting but the one just before (consider that they will need to be grilled). Grease a grill pan with a little oil and heat it well; once it's hot, place the zucchini slices on it and grill them on both sides for just long enough to create the typical grill marks . Now wash and trim the radishes, and slice them thinly with the mandolin .
Repeat the same procedure for the carrots: wash them, then once trimmed and peeled, slice them thinly with the same mandolin, selecting the thinnest setting for this case . Now move on to the cucumbers: wash them, trim them, and proceed as before by slicing them thinly with the mandolin . Then, move on to the round tomatoes: wash them and slice them with a knife, trying to get slices as thin as possible .
Everything is ready for filling: take your now-cool bagels, cut them in half with a knife , then spread goat cheese on 6 halves , and place the zucchini slices on top
the previously washed lettuce leaves and the tomatoes, seasoned with oil, pepper, and salt . This is the filling common to all 3 types of bagels; now proceed with the meat filling by adding the roast beef slices to 2 halves .
Close with the other half of the bread . The first two stuffed bagels are ready. Now proceed with the fish filling: place smoked salmon slices on two other halves , and close with the other half of the bagel .
Finally, for the vegetarian version: fill the remaining two halves with carrot slices, cucumber slices , and radish rounds . Close the last sandwiches as well . Your stuffed bagels are ready to be enjoyed!
It is recommended to consume the stuffed bagels immediately. Unfilled bagels can be stored for 1-2 days at most in a paper bag or can be frozen in suitable bags once cooked. In both cases, before serving, we recommend reheating them in the oven.
Once you've made your bagels, unleash your creativity by inventing new flavor combinations, without forgetting the seasonality of the ingredients.

