name:
Butter-free tart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ½cups(430 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 7 ½tbsp(100 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2)
Egg yolks: 1 ⅓tbsp(20 g)- (about 1)
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Water: 4tsp(20 g)
Potato starch: 1 ⅛cup(150 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(5 g)
Black cherry jam: 2.1cups(500 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 2 hours of rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the butter-free tart, start with the pastry: in a bowl, pour 2 whole eggs plus 1 yolk (for a total weight of 130 g, about 4.6 oz), then beat with a whisk and add the 1 tbsp (0.7 oz) of water , also pour in the olive oil while stirring vigorously. At this point, incorporate the powdered sugar gradually and continue to beat with the whisk.
Then, still in the same bowl, sift the flour , potato starch and baking powder for desserts . Work the ingredients with your hands to combine them .
Once you have gathered all the ingredients , transfer the dough to a floured surface and knead by hand vigorously until you have obtained a smooth and compact dough that you can shape into a sphere .
Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours. After the 2 hours, the butter-free pastry is ready to be rolled out. With a dough scraper, cut off 1/3 of the dough and keep it aside covered with plastic wrap. Lightly dust the work surface with flour and roll out the remaining 2/3 of the dough with a rolling pin .
You should get a round sheet about 1/5 inch thick . Carefully roll the pastry sheet around the rolling pin and then unroll it onto a 9-inch tart pan : if you are using a perforated pan, there will be no need to oil it, otherwise, you can lightly oil the pan before laying out the base.
Apply gentle pressure to adhere the bottom and sides, then use a knife to trim off the excess dough from the edge . At this point, prick the base of the tart shell with a fork . Place the tart pan in the refrigerator, meanwhile take the reserved quarter of dough, roll it out with the rolling pin to a thickness of about 1/8 inch .
then with a 9-inch round cutter, cut out a circle , proceed by cutting another circle inside with a smaller cutter, 7 inches in diameter . This way, you will have a 9-inch diameter ring and an 7-inch diameter disc of pastry .
Carefully transfer the ring onto a tray lined with parchment paper and place it in the refrigerator to firm up. Meanwhile, with a fluted pastry wheel, cut 1/2-inch strips from the pastry disc (23-24).
Now retrieve the tart pan and fill the base with jam, taking care to spread it evenly and level the surface with the back of a spoon . Once done, apply the strips of dough spaced well apart on the tart, securing the ends to the edge ; cross the strips to create a diamond pattern .
At this point, complete by applying the pastry ring you have kept in the refrigerator, to create a frame and make sure to adhere well to the edge (28-29). Bake the tart in a preheated oven, on the second-to-last rack of the oven at 350°F for 35 minutes. After 35 minutes, move the baking sheet to the top rack to lightly brown the surface for 5 minutes. Once baking is complete, turn off the oven and open it, allowing the tart to cool slightly in the oven. Once slightly cooled, remove and unmold the butter-free tart !
Store the butter-free tart under a glass dome for 3-4 days. You can also freeze it after baking and cooling.
The pastry dough can be frozen for about 1 month wrapped in plastic wrap.
With the decoration we suggested, you will have leftover pastry that you can freeze or use to make fragrant oil shortcrust cookies. Otherwise, if you wish, you can reduce the amount by one-third to make only the 9-inch base and lattice strips, without the ring that frames the tart.
You can flavor the pastry with lemon zest, orange, vanilla seeds, cinnamon. You can prepare the pastry in the evening and let it rest overnight in the fridge.

