name:
Italian-style Hamburger
ingredients:
Hamburger muffins: 4
Beef: 1.75lbs(800 g)- minced shoulder
Caciocavallo silano cheese: 4.5oz(130 g)
Dried tomatoes in oil: 2oz(50 g)
Lettuce: to taste
Butter: to taste- (for greasing the buns)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Red Tropea onions: 5.3oz(150 g)
Water: 0.67cup(150 g)
Brown sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Egg yolks: 1- (at room temperature)
Lemon juice: 2tsp(10 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Basil: to taste
Vegetable oil: 0.7cup(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the Italian-style hamburger, first start by making the basil mayonnaise. It's important that all the ingredients are at room temperature. Pour the egg yolk into a tall container, add a pinch of salt and pepper; also add the grated lemon zest, then squeeze the juice and add 10 grams (about 0.35 oz) of it .
Start blending with an immersion blender while slowly adding the seed oil until you get a creamy mayonnaise. Then add the basil leaves and blend again . Set aside your basil mayonnaise.
Prepare the caramelized onions: peel the onion, cut it in half and then into wedges ; transfer them to a pan with half the amount of water
add the brown sugar and cook for a few minutes . Then add the remaining water and continue cooking until it has completely evaporated . It will take about 15 minutes in total.
In the meantime, prepare the hamburgers, using 200 grams (about 7 oz) of meat for each: you will make 4. Press lightly with your hands to give them the desired shape, then season with salt, pepper, and a drizzle of oil on both sides . Heat a pan well and place the burgers, wait 6 minutes, and turn them to the other side .
Meanwhile, slice the caciocavallo cheese and place it on the hamburgers, then add a bit of water to create some steam, cover with a lid and finish cooking for another 6 minutes,
until the caciocavallo is completely melted . This way, you'll get rare burgers; if you prefer, you can extend the cooking for another 3-4 minutes for medium doneness. Meanwhile, prepare the buns, cut them in half , butter the halves to soften the inside
and toast them for a moment on a hot grill, with the part to be filled facing down on the grill . Then place them on a cutting board and spread the basil mayonnaise on the base .
Add the previously washed lettuce leaves , then place the meat patty on top and some caramelized onions .
Finish with the sun-dried tomatoes (drained from their preserving oil), close the sandwich and serve your Italian-style hamburgers still hot ! You can accompany them with delicious French fries!
It is recommended to consume the Italian hamburger immediately.
To make the burgers, we used beef shoulder, the right mix of meat and fat. If you prefer, you can add pork sausage or flavor them with paprika or aromatic herbs.
If you wish, you can also cook the Air fryer patties .

