name:
Spelt and Shrimp Salad
ingredients:
Pearled farro: 1 ¼cup(240 g)
Shrimps: 12.5oz(350 g)- whole tails
Lime juice: 0.9oz(25 g)
Lime peel: 1-
Pumpkin seeds: 2tbsp(20 g)- shelled
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Yellow cherry tomatoes: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Green beans: 1 ½cup(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the spelt and shrimp salad, start by preparing the pearled spelt: rinse it under running water to remove any impurities, then pour it into plenty of boiling salted water and cook the pearled spelt for about 15 minutes or according to the instructions on the package, taking care to remove with a skimmer the impurities foam that forms on the surface during cooking .
Drain the spelt in a fine-mesh strainer, preserving the cooking water . Let the spelt cool, then wash the green beans, trim them and cut them into pieces about 0.75 inches .
Boil the green beans for 7/8 minutes in the same water used to cook the spelt , once cooked, drain them and let them cool under running water . Now take care of the shrimp: remove the legs and the shell, the covering that encloses the shrimp (you will obtain 8.8 oz of cleaned tails)
then extract with a knife the gut, the black filament located on the back . Once cleaned, obtaining 8.8 oz of shrimp, cut them in half lengthwise and place them in a bowl, season with half the olive oil
flavor with grated lime zest , then squeeze and pour half the lime juice onto the shrimp ,
salt, pepper, and mix to season the shrimp . Preheat a pan well, pour in the shrimp and sear them for about 1 minute or until the liquid in the pan has evaporated. Then set aside the cooked shrimp .
Now toast the pumpkin seeds in another hot skillet for about 2 minutes, being careful not to burn them ; then turn off the heat and let them cool. Finally, wash the yellow cherry tomatoes and cut them into quarters . Everything is ready to assemble the spelt and shrimp salad: in a large bowl, pour the cooked and now cold spelt, add the green beans ,
the yellow cherry tomatoes , the sautéed shrimp , and finally, the toasted pumpkin seeds
Season with the remaining olive oil and the leftover lime juice and mix to season. Your spelt and shrimp salad is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the spelt and shrimp salad immediately; if there are any leftovers, it can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day.
Want to add a creamy touch to your salad? Add a spoonful of Greek yogurt As an alternative to spelt, you can use other grains of your choice, such as barley, bulgur, or alternatively, quinoa.

