name:
Stuffed pickled cucumbers
ingredients:
Cucumbers: 2
Red peppers: 1
Fresh ginger: 0.4oz(10 g)
Chives: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch
Datterino tomatoes: 3.3cups(500 g)
Peanuts: ½cup(70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4.1tbsp(60 g)
Lime juice: ½
Sugar: 5tsp(20 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Black pepper: 1tsp(0.5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the marinating time in the fridge (30 min.)

instructions:
To prepare the stuffed pickled cucumbers, first place the peanuts on a baking sheet and toast them in a static oven at 250°F for about 10 minutes. Meanwhile, pour the oil into a pan, add the cherry tomatoes and roast them over high heat for 10 minutes .
Transfer the cherry tomatoes and peanuts to a jug , season with salt and blend with an immersion blender .
You should obtain a homogeneous sauce . Set aside and take care of the cucumbers: remove the ends of the cucumbers and cut them in half , then cut them again in half lengthwise .
Use a teaspoon to hollow out the cucumbers , then finely chop the pulp with a knife and transfer it to a bowl. Now remove the seeds and inner filaments of the pepper, cut it first into strips and then into cubes .
Add the pepper to the cucumber pulp , then season with oil and salt .
Flavor with grated ginger , mix and set aside. For the cucumber marinade, pour oil, lime juice , salt, pepper, and sugar into a bowl .
Add a fresh chili pepper and mix . Pour everything over the cucumbers .
Let marinate in the refrigerator for 30 minutes . Once the marinating time has passed, place the cucumbers on absorbent paper and gently pat them dry . At this point, fill them with the stuffing and garnish with chopped chives.
Plate by spreading the peanut and cherry tomato sauce on the bottom of the dish , then place the cucumbers on top . Your stuffed pickled cucumbers are ready to be served !
The stuffed pickled cucumbers can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for up to 2 days.
You can add watermelon to the filling for a sweet note to the dish.
For a creamier filling, you can mix the cucumber pulp with a spreadable cheese or well-drained ricotta!

