name:
Zucchini in Carpione
ingredients:
Zucchini: 3 ½cups(400 g)
Fine salt: 3 ½tsp(20 g)
White wine vinegar: 5tbsp(75 g)
White wine: ¾cup(200 g)
Garlic: 3cloves
Sage: 6leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Peanut seed oil: 2 ¼cups(500 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + 30 minutes to drain the zucchini and 12 hours of marinating

instructions:
To prepare zucchini in carpione, wash and trim the zucchini , then cut them in half lengthwise , and then again in half lengthwise
From each portion, cut 3 sticks of the same size . Place the zucchini sticks in a colander positioned over a bowl, then salt them and let them drain for about 30 minutes, which is the time needed for the zucchini to release their water content. In the meantime, peel and finely chop the garlic cloves
Add the sage leaves and finely chop them as well to obtain an even mince . Pour the olive oil into a pan and heat it
then add the garlic and sage mince , let it toast for just a few minutes, then deglaze with a small amount of wine from the total amount (a scant tablespoon will suffice). Turn off the heat, transfer the mince into a bowl, and then add the remaining white wine
and the white wine vinegar ; mix and set the marinade aside . After 30 minutes of draining the zucchini, rinse them under running water .
Then let the zucchini drain in a colander for about 10 minutes . Heat the peanut oil for frying in a deep pan (the oil should not exceed 338–356°F, to be measured with a kitchen thermometer). Once the zucchini are well-drained, fry them a few at a time : it will take about 4 minutes. As the zucchini are cooked, drain them with a slotted spoon directly into a small deep dish about 4x6 inches .
Pour the marinade you prepared earlier over the zucchini , cover the dish with plastic wrap , and let the zucchini soak in the marinade for at least 12 hours in the refrigerator. After the marinating time, your zucchini in carpione will be ready to serve, carefully drained from the marinade .
Carpione zucchini can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container (always immersed in carpione) for up to one week.
Freezing is not recommended.
Flavor the carpione with what you like most: red onions for a more intense taste or mint to give a fresher note. It is preferable to use white wine vinegar over red because it will keep the color of the vegetables more vibrant.

