name:
Nettle Ravioli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (2 medium)
Common nettles: 3.5oz(100 g)
Water: 3tbsp(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)- to grate
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 35 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus the resting time for the dough (30 minutes)

instructions:
To prepare the nettle ravioli, start by cleaning the nettles, wearing gloves first to protect yourself from the stinging substance. Remove the stems, keeping only the leaves (you'll get about 1.8 oz) ; then wash them thoroughly by soaking them in fresh water several times , and drain them .
In a large pan, pour the oil, let it heat, and add the nettles ; let them wilt for 5-6 minutes, stirring occasionally, then add the water and cook for about 10 minutes, covering them with a lid .
Once wilted, transfer them to a blender cup and blend to get a smooth puree . Once you have a puree, transfer it to a fine-mesh strainer and wait until it is completely cooled. This will allow the nettles to lose excess liquid .
When they are cool, start making the fresh pasta: on a work surface, pour the flour (you can hold back a bit on the recommended dose, to add as needed for ideal consistency), create a well and pour the just-drained nettles in the center, and add the lightly beaten eggs . Mix everything with a fork to start gathering the ingredients, then continue by hand, kneading to get a smooth and elastic consistency . Form a ball of dough and wrap it in plastic wrap . Let it rest for at least 30 minutes in a cool place.
Meanwhile, prepare the filling: place the ricotta in a small bowl and mash it with a fork (if your ricotta has a lot of whey, it will need to drain for at least 1 hour in the refrigerator, placed in a strainer over a bowl), then add the grated cheese , season with salt and pepper, and mix everything . Transfer the mixture to the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap and retrieve your fresh pasta which will have rested in the meantime. Divide the dough into 4 parts and start working one, covering the others with plastic wrap, so they don't dry out. Flour your portion of dough with semolina flour and start rolling it with the appropriate machine .
Fold the first strip obtained and pass it again, reducing the thickness each time until you get a thickness of 1/16 to 1/8 inch . Place your dough on a lightly floured surface, always with semolina flour. Then take the filling from the fridge and use a teaspoon to form small heaps of filling, placing them in the center of the rectangle and spacing them about 2 inches apart. Roll out another portion of dough to the same thickness and place it on top ,
making a light pressure with your fingers near the filling to remove the air . Using a fluted pastry cutter with a diameter of 2.5 inches, cut out your ravioli , pull away the excess dough which can be kneaded again, left to rest for 20 minutes wrapped in plastic wrap, and used again. Transfer the ravioli to a floured tray and continue in this way until you have used up both the pasta and the filling. Once you have prepared them all (with these quantities, you will get about 35 ravioli, for 4 people) , cook them in abundant water, salted to taste, for 3-4 minutes.
It is advisable to cook the ravioli immediately after preparation. Alternatively, you can store them in the freezer for a few hours or for up to 1 month. To freeze them, proceed as follows: place the tray with the ravioli in the freezer for a couple of hours or until they are hardened. Then place them in food-grade freezer bags. When you want to use them, remove the freezer bag from the freezer and cook them in abundant salted water while still frozen.
Dress the nettle ravioli with fresh sauce or melted butter with sage!

