name:
Apulian bread
ingredients:
Water: 0.6cup(150 g)- at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: ½tsp(2.5 g)
Semolina: 0.3cup(50 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.04oz(1 g)
Water: 2 ½tbsp(38 g)- at room temperature
Honey: 1tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 1 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus 16 hours of leavening

instructions:
To prepare Apulian bread, start with the preferment. In a bowl, pour the sifted all-purpose flour, the fresh yeast in small pieces , and start kneading by crumbling the flour and yeast with your fingertips to blend them better, then pour in the room-temperature water gradually while gathering the ingredients with your hands . Once you obtain a uniform dough, form a ball, place it inside a large bowl .
Cover with plastic wrap and let the preferment mature at room temperature for 12-14 hours. After the resting time, retrieve the preferment and knead it again inside the bowl .
At this point, add the semolina flour , the honey , 0.035 oz of fresh yeast .
Knead all the ingredients by pouring the water gradually . When the mixture is blended, add the salt , continue kneading until it is absorbed, then transfer the dough onto a lightly semolina-floured board .
Work it to form a ball , place the dough in a large bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise at a temperature of about 79-81°F (26-27°C): it's fine to store it in a turned-off oven with the light on, for about 3 hours or until the dough has tripled in volume .
After the rising time, place the dough on a lightly semolina-floured board , roll out the dough to create a rectangle by pressing the dough with your fingers , now make the folds: take the side edges of the dough and fold them onto themselves .
Then fold the upper part and roll the dough onto itself (20-21).
To give it a spherical shape again , place the obtained sphere on a cutting board dusted with semolina flour , cover the dough with a bowl or a cake dome and let it rise again for 1 hour. This way, it will be easier to transfer the loaf onto the baking sheet once it has risen.
Preheat the oven to 428°F (220°C) in static mode, making sure to keep the baking sheet inside that will be used for baking the bread; it should be scorching. After the last rising, take the bread, score the surface with a knife to create a cross with two diagonal cuts: the cuts must be very deep because they will help release air during baking and prevent cracks from forming on the crust. With the help of a pastry scraper, gently transfer the bread onto the hot baking sheet, ensuring to preserve its shape (be careful not to burn yourself on the hot baking sheet) . Bake the loaf at 428°F (220°C) for 50 minutes in the central part of the oven. Once baking is complete, your Apulian bread will be golden and crunchy , let it cool slightly before slicing.
Apulian bread can be stored for 2-3 days in a paper bag. You can also freeze the bread for about 1 month, perhaps in slices, to defrost only what you need!
If you want to use dry yeast (dehydrated), use 0.053 oz for the preferment and still 0.035 oz for the dough, keeping the rising times unchanged. If you prefer, you can prepare the preferment the night before and let it "mature," that is, rise at room temperature for 12 hours covered as indicated in the procedure; the next day, you can finish the work to have the Apulian bread hot for lunch to enjoy with tasty meats and cheeses!

