name:
Bavette with cannellini cream, arugula, and breadcrumbs
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Dried cannellini beans: 8.8oz(250 g)- (500 g rehydrated)
Arugula: 2.1oz(60 g)
Multigrain whole wheat bread: 2.8oz(80 g)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note plus 12 hours of soaking for the beans

instructions:
To prepare bavette with cannellini cream, arugula, and breadcrumbs, first, soak the cannellini beans for 12 hours, maybe the night before. Then drain them, rinse them with cold water, and boil them together with two bay leaves for at least 40-45 minutes, removing the foam that appears on the surface with a skimmer if necessary . Meanwhile, cut the bread into cubes ,
put it in a mixer, add the oil , salt, pepper, and a few thyme leaves , and pulse for a few seconds until you get coarse crumbs .
Finally, chop the arugula with a knife and bring a pot of salted water to a boil, which will be used to cook the pasta. When the cannellini beans are cooked, remove the bay leaves , take out a third of the beans , and set them aside.
Blend the remaining cannellini beans with an immersion blender until you get a smooth and velvety cream, then season with salt and pepper, and transfer it to a saucepan. Once the water has reached a boil, add the bavette and cook them al dente for about 7 minutes or one minute less than the time indicated on the package . Meanwhile, heat a pan without adding any fat, add the breadcrumbs
and toast them until they become golden brown . When the bavette are al dente, drain them and add them directly to the saucepan with the cannellini cream ; add the arugula ,
the toasted breadcrumbs , and the remaining cannellini beans and mix over medium heat to combine everything well, adding a ladle of pasta cooking water if the sauce becomes too thick. Your bavette with cannellini cream, arugula, and breadcrumbs are ready to be served !
Bavette with cannellini cream, arugula, and breadcrumbs can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
This dish has a great balance of flavors and textures! However, if you want to experiment with some substitutions, you can use borlotti beans instead of cannellini, and nuts like walnuts or toasted hazelnuts instead of toasted breadcrumbs.

