name:
Parmigiana in air fryer
ingredients:
Eggplant: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (about 3 medium, long)
Tomato purée: 2.1cups(500 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 1.8cups(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to grate)
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: 1tuft
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the eggplant parmesan in the air fryer, first cut the eggplants into slices about 3/8 inch thick . Place the slices on a tray and drizzle with a little oil .
Add salt and pepper, then transfer the eggplants to the basket of the air fryer (we used a fryer with a 6-quart capacity) . Cook at 392°F for 8 minutes .
Meanwhile, prepare the tomato sauce: pour the tomato puree into a pan , then season with a little oil, a clove of garlic , and some basil leaves .
Add salt and pepper and cook over medium heat for about 20 minutes, stirring occasionally . When the tomato sauce is ready and the eggplants are cooked, you can assemble your parmesan: take an 8x6 inch baking dish and cover the bottom with some sauce .
Lay the eggplant slices, slightly overlapping them , then cover with plenty of sauce and distribute the torn mozzarella .
Sprinkle with grated Parmigiano Reggiano and continue by repeating the layers in the same order: first eggplants and tomato sauce .
Then mozzarella and grated cheese . Finally, drizzle with a little oil .
Transfer the baking dish to the air fryer basket and cook for 15 minutes at 374°F . Once cooked , let the eggplant parmesan rest in the air fryer for a few minutes before cutting and serving it !
Store the eggplant parmesan in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for 1-2 days.
It can be frozen after cooking, perhaps already divided into portions, and thawed in the refrigerator as needed before reheating.
For this recipe, it is preferable to use long and firm purple eggplants.
If you prefer, you can replace the Parmigiano with grated caciocavallo cheese!

