name:
Bell Pepper Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.67cups(320 g)
Yellow peppers: 8.3oz(235 g)
Red peppers: 1 ½cup(235 g)
Celery: 1- stem
White onions: 1
Carrots: 1
Shallot: 1.1oz(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)-
White wine: ¼cup(65 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Mint: 4- little leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the bell pepper risotto, start by washing the bell peppers, then place them in a pot full of water and bring to a boil for 15 minutes, covering with a lid and turning them occasionally. After 15 minutes, remove the bell peppers from the boiling water (keep the water you cooked them in) using kitchen tongs, being careful to retain the cooking water
Place the bell peppers on a cutting board and cover them with a glass bowl , alternatively, you can put the bell peppers in a bowl covered with plastic wrap. This way, it will be easier to remove the outer skin. Now prepare the vegetable broth: wash the carrot, celery, and peel the onion, cut the vegetables into coarse pieces and pour them into the reserved cooking water of the bell peppers and bring to a boil, cooking for 30 minutes.
Now take the hot bell peppers, cut the top with a knife to remove the stem then peel off the outer skin , cut them in half to remove the seeds inside, and cut them first into strips and then into cubes.
In a large saucepan, heat the olive oil, add the chopped shallot , and let it wilt for about 7-8 minutes over low heat, stirring often to prevent the shallot from burning. Add the rice and toast it for 5 minutes. Then deglaze with the white wine and let it evaporate.
Cook the rice by gradually adding the vegetable cooking broth , making sure to let the liquid be absorbed before adding more, stirring the rice often to prevent it from sticking. The risotto will take about 15-18 minutes to cook (for safety, we recommend tasting to see if it needs to cook longer); 10 minutes before the end of cooking, add the bell peppers and continue cooking the risotto . Finally, finish cooking the rice and at the end season with salt and pepper; then stir in the butter
also add the grated cheese . Stir to incorporate the ingredients well: you will obtain a creamy, delicate, and at the same time flavorful risotto. Your bell pepper risotto is ready , serve it hot, garnishing the plate with fresh mint leaves !
We recommend consuming the bell pepper risotto immediately; if any is left over, you can store it in the refrigerator for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
To stir the risotto, you can use robiola or stracchino instead of butter, a lighter but tasty alternative!

