name:
Sesame Tuna
ingredients:
Tuna: 5.25oz(150 g)- (4 fillets)
Black sesame seeds: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Sesame seeds: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)- white
Artichokes: 4
Lemon juice: 1-
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Lemon juice: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 2 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the sesame tuna, start by cleaning the artichokes. Before handling the artichokes, we recommend rubbing your hands with lemon to avoid the substances inside this vegetable, which oxidize when in contact with air, from blackening your hands. Alternatively, you can use gloves. Prepare a bowl with cold water and squeeze the juice of a lemon inside: the acidic solution will prevent the cleaned artichokes from blackening. Cut the stem part with a knife, leaving a couple of inches from the leaves , remove the outer leaves keeping only the tender heart , and cut off the tip of the leaves that have spines .
With a paring knife, remove the most superficial layer of the remaining stem, which is the most fibrous part , split the artichokes in half and remove the inner choke , as you clean the artichokes, soak them in the acidulated water you've prepared with the lemon juice .
Now prepare the citronette. Squeeze the lemon juice and strain it through a sieve , add the olive oil in a thin stream and whisk the citronette .
Salt and pepper and set aside. Now julienne the artichokes , gather them in a bowl and season them with half of the citronette , the remaining part will be used to season the tuna.
In a plate, pour the white sesame seeds and black sesame seeds , mix them . Take the tuna: we recommend ensuring the tuna you purchased has been frozen; we also advise freezing it for at least 96 hours at -0.4 degrees Fahrenheit, then thawing it before using it in the recipe. Pass the tuna slices over the seeds to coat them on both sides .
as uniformly as possible . Heat a non-stick pan and only when it is very hot, place the breaded tuna fillets and cook over high heat for 1 minute, then turn them with a spatula , continue cooking for another minute. Cooked this way, the tuna will be raw inside but if you like, you can prolong the cooking time according to your taste.
Once cooked , transfer the fillets to a cutting board, immediately slice them , and serve them immediately, garnishing the sesame tuna with the remaining citronette and accompanying it with the artichoke salad .
Sesame tuna is a dish to be consumed immediately. It is not recommended to store it in the refrigerator or freeze it.
Don't like sesame? No worries, bread the fillets with chopped almonds, hazelnuts, or pistachios to maintain the crunchy effect! The alternative to citronette can be an exotic soy sauce.
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at -0.4 degrees Fahrenheit in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

