name:
Zucchini and Potato Balls
ingredients:
Potatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Zucchini: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: 3.5oz(100 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (2 medium)
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(50 g)
Chives: 2- stems
Vegetable oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus 30 minutes of rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
To make the zucchini and potato balls, boil the potatoes with the skin in plenty of water for about 30-40 minutes or until they become soft (the cooking time will be halved if you use a pressure cooker), pierce them with a fork to check the cooking. While the potatoes are cooking, wash and trim the zucchini , then grate them with a large-hole grater .
Place the zucchini in a colander and press them with a fork to release their water . Once the potatoes are cooked, drain them and pass them through a potato ricer with the skin on while still hot (alternatively, you can peel them carefully to avoid burning yourself) . Add the grated zucchini , and season with salt and pepper.
Flavor with chives cut into small pieces with scissors and mix the dough with your hands until you form a compact and homogeneous dough .
Now form the balls: wet your hands with water , then take a piece of dough and form balls the size of a walnut , as you make the balls, place them on a plate . With these amounts, you will get 16 balls. Place the balls in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes so they will be firmer and hold their shape during cooking.
Now for the breading: take a ball, roll it in flour , then in beaten egg , and finally in breadcrumbs
In a pot, heat the seed oil for frying: once it reaches about 340°F (measure with a kitchen thermometer), fry a few balls at a time for 3-4 minutes or until golden, using a slotted spoon . Once cooked, drain them with the slotted spoon and place them on a tray lined with absorbent paper to soak up the excess oil . Your zucchini and potato balls are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the zucchini and potato balls immediately. You can freeze the uncooked balls and cook them directly from frozen.
For those who want to try the baked version, we recommend adding an egg to the dough and cooking the balls in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 15 minutes.
Looking for a cheesy variation? Try the recipe for Potato and Gorgonzola Croquettes !

