name:
Ganache cream
ingredients:
Dark chocolate 55%: 14.1oz(400 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)- soft

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 23
Cost: Average
Note + the cooling time

instructions:
To prepare the ganache cream, as a first step, pour the cream into a saucepan and bring it to a simmer. Meanwhile, finely chop the chocolate and place it in a bowl .
When the cream is hot, pour it over the chocolate in at least 3 additions. Pour about 1/3 of it into the bowl with the chocolate and start mixing; meanwhile, keep the cream warm by placing it back on very low heat. Once the first addition of cream has been incorporated, add half of the remaining cream , mix (always keeping the cream warm), and once it is fully incorporated, add the last part . Stir vigorously until a smooth consistency is achieved.
At this point, also add the soft butter cut into cubes, a little at a time, as it should also be incorporated gradually and continue to mix with the spatula until it is completely melted. Your dark chocolate ganache is now ready, but if you prefer, you can blend it with an immersion blender for a few seconds , being careful not to incorporate air. In this way, you will obtain a smoother texture and can use it as you prefer !
The ganache cream can be stored for one day outside the refrigerator, or in the refrigerator well covered for 2-3 days.
If you use chocolate with a higher cocoa percentage, it will be necessary to add more cream.
These amounts will give you a basic ganache, perfect for using as a filling for a tart or a cake, such as a Heart-shaped cake for example. Depending on what you will use it for, you will need to adjust the amount of cream: to make a covering ganache, for example, you will need to use more cream, while to achieve a cremino, you should reduce it.
If you want a whipped ganache, you should whip it with electric beaters until completely cooled: just place the bowl in a larger one in which you have already poured ice and water. See the procedure in the Yule Log (Buche de Noel) recipe!

