name:
Nettle Tartlets
ingredients:
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)- to grate
Type 00 flour: 1cup(130 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)- cold from the fridge
Whole milk: 0.1cup(30 g)- cold
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(200 g)-
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2)
Nutmeg: to taste
Common nettles: 14.1oz(400 g)
Water: 0.625cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes of resting for the pastry and cooling of the nettles

instructions:
To prepare nettle tartlets, start with the cheese pastry: pour the flour into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment . Add both types of grated cheese , the cold butter cut into cubes , and a pinch of salt and pepper.
Run the mixer at medium speed and begin to combine the ingredients, gradually adding the cold milk , and let it work until a fairly compact mass forms (if you don't have a stand mixer, you can make this dough by hand). Transfer the dough to the work surface (preferably cold) and knead it just enough to shape it into a flattened disk ,
wrap it in plastic wrap , and let it rest in the fridge for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the filling. To prepare the filling, you first need to clean the nettles; it is recommended to wear latex gloves to protect your hands from possible traces of stinging substances that may be present on the stem and leaves. Then strip the nettle, keeping the leaves aside and discarding the stems: you will obtain 7 oz of cleaned nettles . Soak the nettle leaves in cold water, wash them thoroughly
and drain them well with a colander placed in the sink . Then, still wearing gloves, chop the nettle leaves with a knife . In a pot, heat the olive oil and add the chopped nettle ,
cover with water and cook with the lid on medium heat for about 7-8 minutes . Once cooked, salt, pepper, turn off the heat, drain the nettles so that they lose excess liquid and let them cool completely .
In a bowl, add the ricotta and soften it with a kitchen spatula, then add the eggs and mix with either a whisk or even a fork. Season with grated nutmeg , salt, and pepper ,
finally add the cooled nettles , mix to combine . After the pastry has rested, take the dough and roll it out on a floured work surface to a thickness of 1/4 inch .
Using a 5-inch cookie cutter, cut out 6 pastry circles (with the leftover dough you can make delicious Biscuits with Parmesan and Pecorino !). Then take tartlet molds with a diameter of 4 inches, butter and flour them, then place the pastry circles on top and press them well into the bottom and sides, prick the bottom with a fork .
Fill the tartlets with the ricotta and nettle filling, making sure to fill up to the edge, smoothing the surface with the back of a spoon: you will be able to insert about 3.5 oz of filling in each mold . Place the tartlets on a baking sheet and bake in a preheated oven for 30 minutes at 356°F. Once cooked, remove your nettle tartlets from the oven and let them cool slightly before serving!
Once cooked, nettle tartlets can be stored covered in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. You can freeze the cheese pastry separately or freeze the raw nettle tartlets if you used fresh ingredients; in this case, you can bake them from frozen, taking care to extend the cooking time.
With the same dough, you can make a single savory tart using a 9.5-inch mold, and to make the filling even more delicious, you can add small pieces of bacon or ham.

