name:
Farfalle (fresh pasta)
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (2 medium)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for the fresh pasta and to dry the farfalle

instructions:
To make the farfalle, start by weighing the flour, then pour it onto the work surface (hold back a little of the flour, adding it while you work if the dough is too soft) , make a well in the center and pour in the eggs; start mixing with a fork gradually incorporating the flour around , then continue by hand and knead the dough until you obtain a smooth and elastic consistency.
Shape the dough into a ball and wrap it in plastic wrap ; let the fresh pasta rest for at least 20 minutes. Then take the dough again and divide it into quarters. Roll out the first piece (you can leave the others wrapped in plastic wrap until you roll them out) and put it in the pasta machine , you should work it from the thickest setting to the second to last, passing the pasta through the latter several times until you get sheets with a thickness of 1 mm, so really very thin .
On the sheets you will get, pass a pasta cutter to make rectangles, like this: create vertical strips 3 inches wide with the scalloped side , then cut horizontally with the smooth side, to form sides of 1.5 inches . To form the farfalle, you'll need to use your thumb and index finger: with your thumb, lift one edge of the dough at the center of the rectangle
another fold will also be created in the center , while with your index finger, bring the opposite edge also towards the center to create the other fold (11-12).
Then pinch in the center to fix the shape of the farfalle ; continue with all the dough. As you go, you can place them on a tray and finish the fresh pasta. As you make the farfalle, you can lay them on a slightly floured tray, perhaps with semolina flour if you prefer so that it is not absorbed by the fresh pasta , then let them dry for about 30 minutes. Your farfalle will cook in 5 minutes in boiling salted water to taste!
You can store the fresh pasta farfalle once dried, in the freezer inside freezer bags for about 1 month.

To obtain green farfalle, use our Green pasta with spinach !

