name:
Perch fish fillet
ingredients:
Perch: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Friar's beard (agretti): 1.25lbs(600 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)-
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(90 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Vegetable broth: 0.4cup(100 g)
White wine: 2oz(60 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 12 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the preparation of the vegetable broth

instructions:
To prepare the perch fillet, start by preparing the Vegetable broth . Then proceed with cleaning the agretti: cut off the red-colored stem end , then rinse them under running water to wash them thoroughly and remove any traces of soil , then let them drain .
Now take care of the perch: take the fillet, run your hand over the surface to check for any bones, and remove them with kitchen tweezers. Cut the fillet into pieces , then in a large pan, melt the olive oil with the butter over very low heat , then add a clove of garlic, peeled and halved, to flavor; meanwhile, coat the perch pieces in flour: in a bowl, beat the eggs , add salt and pepper. In another large, shallow bowl, pour the flour
then coat one piece of perch at a time, on both sides, first in the egg , then in the flour, ensuring it adheres well over the entire surface . Once the oil and butter begin to sizzle gently, add the floured fillets to the pan
Brown them for 2 minutes on each side, then deglaze with white wine , allowing it to evaporate. Once the alcohol has evaporated, add the agretti and pour in the vegetable broth .
Cover with a lid and cook for 7-8 minutes over medium heat, checking occasionally. Once cooking is complete , salt and pepper to taste, and serve your perch fillet immediately on a bed of agretti .
It is recommended to consume the perch fillet immediately; you can freeze the preparation once cooked if you used fresh ingredients.
If you don't like agretti or when they are out of season, you can replace them with zucchini, cabbage, or spinach, it's up to you! Cooking times will vary depending on the chosen accompaniment!

