name:
Artichokes in oil
ingredients:
Artichokes: 5.7lbs(2.6 kg)- 8 artichokes
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ¼cups(700 g)
Lemons: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the artichokes in oil, start with sterilizing the jars. We used jars with airtight seals, so you can boil them by removing the rubber gaskets. For proper sterilization, follow the guidelines of the Ministry of Health , as described at the bottom of the page. Start by How to clean artichokes : fill a bowl with water and squeeze in lemon juice, which will help preserve the cleaned artichokes from browning. Begin by removing the outermost tough leaves to reach where the leaves start to be white at the base of the flower ; cut the tougher part of the stem, keeping a few initial inches under the flower , then peel the stem to remove the tougher part .
At this point, cut off the tips to get the heart of the artichoke and cut the artichokes in half (5-6).
With a paring knife, remove the central fuzz , or the internal fluff found at the center of the heart. As you clean the artichokes (you will obtain 28 oz cleaned), immerse them in the bowl with acidulated water . Once cleaning is complete, drain the artichokes with a strainer,
heat a grill and cook the artichokes for 3-4 minutes per side . Once cooked, transfer the artichokes into an airtight preserving jar , fill with olive oil until the artichokes are completely covered . For optimal preservation, it is recommended to fill the jar leaving 0.8 inches from the rim and to ensure the artichokes are well immersed in the liquid,
insert a plastic spacer to press the artichokes well into the jar ; at this point, close the jar by inserting the gasket . To finish, proceed with pasteurization, or boiling the jars, following the guidelines of the Ministry of Health . Once ready, let them cool completely, then store your artichokes in oil in the pantry. Let the preserve rest for half a day. If you notice that during this time it has absorbed a lot of oil, you can top it up, ensuring to pasteurize again. When you go to consume the artichokes in oil, check that the vacuum seal has occurred: pull the tab, and if it resists and you hear a "pop" sound, the vacuum seal has been achieved correctly. Otherwise, if the vacuum seal hasn't been achieved correctly, the preserve should not be consumed.
Artichokes in oil can be kept in the pantry for about 1 month, away from heat sources. It is advised to consume the artichokes in oil within a week of opening the jar.
If visible signs of alteration appear, such as air bubbles, or if the oil appears opalescent and milky, the preserve should not be consumed.
The home preparation of preserves and jams can present health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of the food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures can provide to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to scrupulously follow food safety instructions to reduce risks, but always remember that the same food safety that professional-level preserves and jams offer can never be achieved. For the correct preparation of homemade preserves, please refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

