name:
Savory brioche bread
ingredients:
Eggs: 5.8oz(165 g)- (3 medium)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: 3 ½tsp(15 g)
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(2 g)
Butter: 9 ½tbsp(135 g)- soft
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 2.1tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low
Note + rising times (about 4 hours)

instructions:
To prepare the savory brioche, start by weighing all the ingredients, they should all be at the same temperature. At this point, sift the flour into the bowl of a stand mixer , add the dry yeast and the sugar .
Beat the eggs in a bowl, then turn on the stand mixer equipped with a whisk at moderate speed and pour in the eggs in a stream . Once they are well mixed, change the whisk for the dough hook, add the salt and then the softened butter one piece at a time , waiting for it to be absorbed before proceeding with another.
Once you have finished adding the butter, work the mixture for about 20 minutes until it is well kneaded . You will obtain a rather hydrated dough and it will not be necessary to add more flour. With the help of a dough scraper, transfer it to a work surface, lightly butter your hands and give some reinforcement folds, bringing the dough from the outside towards the inside .
At this point, form a ball and transfer the dough into a large bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for about 3 hours in the oven turned off with only the light on. If you prefer not to use plastic wrap, you can place the dough on a cutting board and cover it with a large inverted bowl: you still need to prevent it from getting air because a crust would form on the surface. Once it has doubled in size
transfer it again to a lightly floured work surface and with your hands gently press the dough to flatten it . At this point, fold both side edges towards the center and start rolling it
until you obtain a loaf the same length as the mold. Once done, butter a 10x4 inch mold and transfer the dough inside , cover again with the plastic wrap (you can decide not to cover with plastic wrap, but with a towel. Obviously, the plastic wrap prevents air from entering. Let it rise for another hour in the oven turned off with only the light on.
After this time, brush the surface with the egg yolk beaten with the cream and bake in a static preheated oven at 340°F for 35 minutes. Once cooked, take out your savory brioche and let it cool before serving .
You can store the savory brioche for 2-3 days in a food bag. If you prefer, you can freeze the cooked brioche for up to a month!
To enrich your savory brioche, add cheese cubes and grated lemon zest!

