name:
Orange Salad
ingredients:
Oranges: 2.6lbs(1.2 kg)- Tarocco
Red onions: 2.8oz(80 g)
Black olives: 3.9oz(110 g)-
Basil: 3leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + soaking time for the onion (10-15 min)

instructions:
To prepare the orange salad, first clean the red onion: cut it in half lengthwise and remove the central green sprout, if present ; slice the onion into julienne strips , then soak them in cold water for at least 10-15 minutes to sweeten the flavor .
Meanwhile, peel the oranges to the flesh: start by removing the top and bottom ends of the orange , then place the base on a cutting board and cut the peel with a knife from top to bottom, being careful to remove the white pith as well, which has a bitter taste . Once all the peel is removed, separate the individual segments by cutting between the pulp and the membrane that divides the segments .
Finally, take the black olives and remove the pits using the appropriate tool ; if you don't have a pitter, you can get already pitted olives. Now that all the ingredients are ready, you can move on to the dressing: pour the extra virgin olive oil into a small bowl , salt and pepper to taste and whisk with a flat spring whisk or a fork .
Now you can assemble your salad: take a large bowl and add the peeled orange segments , the slices of onion, which you will have drained and dried well , and the pitted olives ;
pour the dressing into the bowl and mix well . Finally, garnish with the basil leaves, roughly torn by hand, and serve your delicious orange salad !
The orange salad can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
For this recipe, you can use different varieties of oranges depending on the season: in the spring months, for example, choose Belladonna oranges with juicy blonde flesh and few seeds, or in winter, Tarocco oranges, which are excellent for eating.
To add an extra touch of freshness, try garnishing the orange salad with a few mint leaves... it will be an even more delightful vegetarian Christmas dish!

