name:
Nettle ravioli with fondue
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (2 medium)
Common nettles: 3.5oz(100 g)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ¼tbsp(20 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(50 g)- grated
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fontina cheese: 0.73lb(330 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)-

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + resting of the fresh pasta (about 30 minutes)

instructions:
To prepare the nettle ravioli with fondue, first put on gloves to clean the nettles, protecting yourself from the stinging substance, and start removing the stems, keeping only the tips (you will obtain about 1.8 oz) ; then wash them thoroughly by soaking them in fresh water multiple times , then drain them .
In a large pan, pour the oil, add the nettles , add the water and cook for about 6 minutes, covering with the lid .
Once wilted, pour them into a tall mixer glass and blend until you obtain a smooth puree ; then let the puree drain
so the blended nettles lose excess liquid and let them cool completely. Once cooled, weigh the flour and pour it onto a work surface (you can hold back a bit on the recommended dose, to add as needed to achieve the ideal consistency for rolling), create a well and in the center pour the drained and completely cooled nettles
add the slightly beaten eggs and mix with a fork to start gathering the ingredients , then continue kneading by hand to obtain a smooth and elastic dough . Form a dough ball and wrap it in plastic wrap . Let rest for at least 30 minutes in a cool place.
Meanwhile, prepare the filling. Pour the ricotta into a small bowl and crumble it with a fork (if your ricotta has a lot of whey, you'll need to let it drain for at least 1 hour in the fridge placed in a sieve over a bowl), then add the grated cheese , salt and pepper to taste and mix all the ingredients . Keep the mixture aside in the fridge covered with plastic wrap, while you deal with the fresh pasta, which will have rested in the meantime. Divide the dough into 4 parts (those you are not working on immediately, keep covered with plastic wrap) and start rolling out the first piece, lightly floured with semolina flour, with the pasta machine : pass it through the rollers from the widest setting.
then fold the first strip obtained and pass it through setting the machine to other measures up to the penultimate to obtain a sheet about 1/8 inch thick which you will place on a surface lightly floured with semolina flour. Repeat the operation for another piece. Then take the filling from the fridge and with a teaspoon form small heaps of filling, placing them on one of the two rolled rectangles, spacing them about 1.5-2 inches apart
spray some water on the edges of the sheet, or if you prefer, brush around the heaps with a kitchen brush. This will help when you overlap the other sheet over the stuffed one , they will stick together. Match the edges and apply light pressure with your fingertips between the heaps of filling to eliminate air and prevent them from opening during cooking and the filling from spilling out . Now cut with a 2.5-inch diameter fluted pastry cutter . As you make them, place them on a tray lightly floured with semolina flour. You can also roll out the leftover dough again, form a ball and let it rest for at least 20 minutes before rolling it out again. With these amounts, you will get 35 ravioli of the indicated size. Gradually place them on a tray floured with semolina flour.
Set a pot with plenty of water on the stove to salt when boiling, which you will use to cook the ravioli later. Proceed to prepare the fondue: pour the cream into a pot and bring to a boil, in the meantime cut the Fontina cheese into cubes and stir to melt the Fontina over low heat.
salt and pepper , turn off the heat and transfer the fondue to a large pan (with the heat off) where you will then season the ravioli . Boil the ravioli in plenty of salted boiling water to taste, also cook the nettle ravioli in salted water for about 3-4 minutes ,
once cooked, transfer them to the large pan where you poured the fondue , to toss them turning them very gently with a slotted spoon to avoid breaking them. Serve the nettle ravioli with fondue hot !
It is recommended to cook the ravioli right after preparing them, alternatively, you can store them in the freezer for a few hours or up to 1 month maximum. To freeze them, proceed as follows: place the tray with the ravioli in the freezer for a couple of hours or until they are hardened. Then place them in freezer bags. When you want to use them, remove the freezer bag from the freezer and cook them in plenty of salted water still frozen. Once cooked and dressed with the fondue, they can be stored for up to one day.
Replace the Fontina cheese with a strong cheese like Gorgonzola or Taleggio!

