name:
Savory Tartlets with Agretti
ingredients:
Extra virgin olive oil: 4.4tbsp(65 g)- No remarks
Type 0 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)-
Water: 3tbsp(45 g)- cold
Fine salt: 1pinch
Friar's beard (agretti): 6.7oz(190 g)- (cleaned 130 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(50 g)
Eggs: 1- organic
Robiola cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- grated
Breadcrumbs: 1 ½tbsp(10 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.4oz(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste-

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the savory tartlets with agretti, start by cleaning the agretti, removing the more earthy and tough ends . Once you have about 4.6 oz of them, blanch them for 30 seconds in boiling water , then drain and immediately transfer them to a bowl with ice water to set the color.
Once cooled, drain them again and pat them dry with a paper towel . Transfer them to a bowl and season with oil and salt. In another bowl, work the robiola cheese with a spatula .
and loosen it with a little cream . Then add the grated Parmesan cheese , the slightly beaten egg and mix everything together.
Finally, add the agretti and set the filling aside. Now take care of the dough to make the bases of the tartlets: in a food processor, add the flour , a pinch of salt, the oil .
and the cold water . Then blend it until you get a crumbly mixture: it will take just a few moments , then transfer it to a work surface .
Compact it with your hands and divide it into 10 portions which will be used to make the 10 tartlets. Grease and sprinkle with breadcrumbs 10 molds with a diameter of about 3 inches .
Then roll out the individual portions of dough one at a time and cut out 4.5-inch discs using a pastry cutter ; you can add scraps to another piece to roll out, continuing in this way for all the tartlets. Transfer each dough disc inside the mold and let it adhere well to the bottom and sides.
Once you have lined all the molds , prick them with a fork and transfer a little cream with the agretti inside them, rolling them with a fork and a spoon, adding a bit more cream to each mold (23-24).
Once you have finished all the tartlets , lightly sprinkle them with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan cheese .
Place them on a baking sheet and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 30 minutes. When they are golden brown, remove the savory tartlets with agretti from the oven and serve them still hot !
Store your savory tartlets with agretti for 1-2 days in the refrigerator. If you prefer, once cooked, if you have used fresh, not thawed ingredients, you can freeze them for up to a month.
If you prefer to make a single savory pie, you can skip the step of boiling the agretti: they will cook directly in the oven.

