name:
Mint and Chocolate Cheesecake
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 7oz(200 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Cream cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.67cups(400 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Mint: 2cups(20 g)- fresh, the leaves
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(90 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(10 g)
Dark chocolate: 0.9oz(25 g)- in flakes
Mint: to taste- fresh, leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + 4 hours of mint leaf infusion; + 30 minutes to set the cookie base; + 4 hours to set the cheesecake

instructions:
To prepare the mint and chocolate cheesecake, begin with the mint leaf infusion. So, detach the leaves from the sprigs, rinse them under running water, and then gently pat them dry with a kitchen towel. Transfer the leaves to a saucepan, pour 12 oz of fresh liquid cream (keep 2 oz aside) and heat over low heat for 3-4 minutes . Then turn off the heat and let cool. Once cool, cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 4-6 hours .
Now you can prepare the cheesecake base, melt the butter in a saucepan over low heat; then pour the cookies into the mixer ; finely chop and pour the sandy mixture into a large bowl; add the melted and now cooled butter , blending everything well with a spoon .
Butter and line with parchment paper a 9-inch springform pan. Pour the crumbled cookies into the cake pan and level them carefully with the back of a spoon ; refrigerate for about half an hour and take care of the cream. Soak the gelatin sheets in a bowl with cold water for 10 minutes .
After 4 hours, take the infusion from the refrigerator and strain the liquid, retaining the leaves in the strainer. Press well to collect all the mint-flavored cream . Then whip the infused cream with the sugar, using a stand mixer with a whisk attachment (if you don't have one, you can comfortably use an electric hand mixer). With the mixers still running, also add the soft cheese, until you get a homogeneous mixture .
Heat the remaining 2 oz of fresh liquid cream , turn off the heat and dissolve the well-drained and squeezed gelatin: mix thoroughly with a whisk until it is completely dissolved , then let cool. Grate the dark chocolate .
and add it to the mixture, blending with a spatula , then also pour in the dissolved gelatin in the cream . Mix everything gently and pour over the base, distributing it carefully and leveling with a spatula .
Let it set in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours . After the time has passed, take your cheesecake, unmold it by first removing the springform ring and the parchment paper around it , and garnish by distributing the chocolate shavings both in the center and on the edges, finally decorating with a few mint leaves . Your mint and chocolate cheesecake is ready to be enjoyed!
The mint and chocolate cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for 3-4 days. You can freeze it, already divided into portions if you prefer, in appropriate food containers. Then thaw the cheesecake in the refrigerator when needed.
If you want to make your mint and chocolate cheesecake truly unique, let the mint leaves infuse for 8-12 hours, after which continue as per the recipe. To color the cheesecake cream you could blend the mint leaves, but keep in mind they will take on a very dark color. A valid alternative is mint syrup... you can add 0.7 oz to the cream after removing the leaves and then proceed to whip it as per the recipe, but you will have to deal with its very sweet taste, so remember to slightly reduce the amount of sugar!

