name:
Marinated duck breast with vegetables
ingredients:
Duck breast: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Carrots: 0.9cup(100 g)
Leeks: 3.5oz(100 g)
Friggitelli (chili peppers): 3.5oz(100 g)
Soy sauce: 1 ⅓tbsp(20 g)
Sesame oil: ½tbsp(10 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Lemongrass: 1- stem
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Tabasco®: to taste
Soy sauce: 3.3tbsp(50 g)
Orange juice: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Honey: 1 ½tbsp(30 g)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the marinating time of the meat (2 h)

instructions:
To prepare the marinated duck breast with vegetables, remove the small feathers still attached to the duck breast skin using kitchen tweezers. Score the breast on the skin side by making diagonal and cross-cut slits to create diamonds . Now prepare the marinade, place the duck in a bowl and pour the soy sauce over it .
Squeeze the juice of an orange and add it to the meat marinade , then flavor with thyme sprigs, honey , and pepper.
Cover with plastic wrap and let the meat marinate for 2 hours in the refrigerator. Wash and peel the carrots and cut them into thin strips , remove the stem and seeds from the friggitelli, then cut them into strips as well .
Perform the same procedure with the chili peppers . Clean the leek by removing the base and the outer leaves, then slice the white part . Peel the garlic and slice it , remove the outer leaves and the green part of the lemongrass and cut it in half.
In a wok, heat the sesame oil, then add the lemongrass stalk, sliced garlic , leek , and chili pepper .
Add the friggitelli and carrots , then deglaze with soy sauce .
Flavor with Tabasco and stir-fry all the vegetables for at least 5 minutes; they should remain crunchy. Once cooked, remove the lemongrass . Heat a pan suitable for oven cooking and sear the duck breast over high heat, placing the fattier side at the bottom, then drizzle it with some marinade .
Sear the duck breast on both sides, then pour the remaining marinade into the pan and bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for 30 minutes (If you don't have an ovenproof pan, you can transfer the breast with its cooking juices to a baking dish suitable for the oven). Once cooked, remove the marinated duck breast from the oven and serve it accompanied by sautéed vegetables and cooking juices .
It is recommended to consume the marinated duck breast with vegetables immediately. If leftovers remain, you can store it in the refrigerator for up to one day.
It is possible to freeze the dish if you've used fresh, non-defrosted ingredients.
You can substitute soy sauce with beer for a marinade with an even more intense and aromatic flavor.

