name:
Whole wheat spaghetti with artichokes and breadcrumbs
ingredients:
Whole wheat Spaghetti pasta: 11.5oz(320 g)
Artichokes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Stale bread: ¾cup(50 g)- (only crumbs)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Olive: 1.1oz(30 g)- pitted
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Oregano: ¼tsp(1 g)- dried

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make whole wheat spaghetti with artichokes and breadcrumbs, start with the How to clean artichokes : rub your hands with lemon to prevent the substances inside this vegetable from blackening your hands; alternatively, you can wear gloves. Remove the end of the stem , remove the outer and tougher leaves , and with a paring knife, remove the fibrous outer layer of the stem. Cut off the tip
cut the artichokes in half , then slice them into thin strips and place them in a bowl filled with water acidulated with lemon to prevent them from blackening .
In a pan, heat 1 tbsp of olive oil with the garlic clove , then add the sliced artichokes and sauté over medium heat for 4-5 minutes, season with salt and pepper, then add the pitted olives and continue for a few more minutes; the artichokes should remain slightly crunchy. When cooking is complete, remove the garlic. Meanwhile, bring a pot of salted water to a boil for cooking the pasta.
Meanwhile, remove the stem from the chili pepper and extract the seeds , then slice it into strips, heat the other 1 tbsp of olive oil in a pan with the garlic and chili pepper , add the chopped breadcrumbs and toast and flavor them for 5 minutes; the cooking time depends on how coarse the breadcrumbs are, the coarser they are, the longer the toasting time.
Once done, flavor with oregano . Cook the spaghetti for 8 minutes or the time indicated on the package , considering they should remain al dente. Once cooked, drain them directly into the pan with the artichokes
then add the toasted breadcrumbs , stir for a moment to flavor , and then serve the whole wheat spaghetti with artichokes and breadcrumbs piping hot .
Whole wheat spaghetti with artichokes and breadcrumbs should be consumed immediately. If leftover, you can store them in an airtight container in the fridge for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
Want to give a flavorful and colorful touch to spaghetti with artichokes and breadcrumbs? Some Piccadilly tomatoes and pecorino cheese shavings will make this dish even more inviting!

