name:
Whole wheat focaccia
ingredients:
Water: 1.8cups(420 g)- at room temperature
Whole grain flour: 2cups(250 g)
Manitoba flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(4 g)
Honey: ½tbsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste- to grease the baking tray and the work surface
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Coarse salt: 4tsp(20 g)
Rosemary: 2sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note plus 3 and a half hours of leavening

instructions:
To prepare the whole wheat focaccia, start by sieving the Manitoba flour into the bowl of the stand mixer . Then add the whole wheat flour and the dried brewer's yeast .
Also add the honey and start the machine equipped with a leaf hook at low speed. Gradually pour in the water (at room temperature) until you get a homogeneous mixture . Then switch from the leaf hook to the dough hook and continue working the dough for 5 minutes.
Add the fine salt and oil , continuing to work the dough at moderate speed for another 5 minutes. Then stop the mixer
and using a dough scraper transfer the dough onto a slightly oiled work surface ; use the scraper to give reinforcement folds by bringing the outer dough towards the center. Try to shape the dough into a spherical form; as it is very hydrated, you won’t be able to work it solely with your hands, so it will be necessary to use the scraper at this stage. We suggest not adding more flour at this stage to avoid compromising the dough's consistency. Then transfer it into a large bowl
and cover with plastic wrap . Let rise in the oven off, with the light on, for about 3 and a half hours until the dough has doubled in volume, then using the scraper again transfer it onto a slightly oiled work surface . Give more reinforcement folds
and transfer the dough into a rectangular baking pan 13.7x11 inches , slightly oiled, again using the scraper. Lightly oil your hands and spread the dough gently pushing it towards the edges until it covers the entire surface of the pan .
Let it rest for 5/10 minutes, then create the classic dimples with your fingertips , pressing your fingertips into the focaccia. Sprinkle your whole wheat focaccia with oil and coarse salt .
Add the sprigs of rosemary and bake in a preheated static oven at 428°F for 40 minutes (we do not recommend baking in a ventilated oven). Once cooked, remove the whole wheat focaccia and serve it as you like !
Store the whole wheat focaccia for 1-2 days at most in a paper bag.
If you prefer, you can reduce the amount of yeast and let the whole wheat focaccia rise in the refrigerator overnight!

