name:
Ricotta and Spinach Crepe
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 0.6cup(80 g)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- 1 from
Whole milk: ¾cup(170 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Spinach: 10cups(300 g)- already cleaned
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: 5tbsp(70 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the ricotta and spinach crepes, begin by preparing the Sweet and savory crepes (Basic recipe) . Melt the butter over very low heat in a saucepan and let it cool slightly; meanwhile, in a bowl, crack the eggs and mix them with the milk . Take the flour and pour the required amount into a bowl , then sift it directly into the bowl with eggs and milk using a sieve
and gradually mix gently with a whisk to avoid forming lumps. Also add the melted butter that has been left to cool slightly , mix this as well, then cover with plastic wrap and let the batter rest in the refrigerator for about half an hour .
Heat and lightly grease a crepe pan about 11 inches in diameter or a thick-bottomed non-stick pan: grease with very little butter and pass the entire surface with a paper towel (this operation will need to be repeated at least once more after cooking the first two crepes). Pour one ladle of batter at a time and spread the batter over the entire surface using the appropriate tool, otherwise, you can simply rotate the pan and let the batter run to obtain a disc that covers the entire surface. As soon as the edges start to lift, you can use a spatula to detach it and gently turn the crepe to cook it evenly on the other side . It will take about 1 and a half minutes on one side and 30 seconds on the other, for a total of a couple of minutes.
Continue this way until all 4 crepes are cooked, and gradually place them on a plate , covering them with plastic wrap once they have cooled to prevent them from drying out. Then, prepare the Béchamel sauce . Melt 3.5 tbsps of butter in a large saucepan over very low heat, then form the roux by sprinkling in the flour . Stir continuously with a whisk to obtain a golden mixture. Then, dilute with the warm milk and adjust the seasoning with salt and nutmeg.
Continue stirring for a few minutes over moderate heat until your béchamel becomes thick . At the end of cooking, transfer the sauce to a container, cover with contact plastic wrap, and let it cool. Finally, take care of the spinach. After removing the roots and rinsing them thoroughly, blanch them in a pan where you have heated 3.5 oz of extra virgin olive oil and a peeled but whole clove of garlic (so you can remove it more easily) . Add a pinch of salt and pepper, cover with a lid, and cook over high heat for 7-8 minutes, until the spinach is softened .
Meanwhile, place the ricotta in a container, add 1.5 tbsps of extra virgin olive oil , and adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper, then quickly work with a fork to combine everything. Add the drained, squeezed, and cooled spinach (without the garlic) , also add the grated cheese , and mix everything together.
Now you can assemble your ricotta and spinach crepes: take a plate, place a crepe, and pour a bit of ricotta and spinach filling in the center , then carefully spread it over the entire surface . Lift part of the crepe and fold it over itself to form a half-moon .
Then fold the half-moon in half again to create a small fan shape . As you fill them, arrange the folded ricotta and spinach crepes in a slightly greased baking dish . Sprinkle the crepes with béchamel and grated cheese ;
broil in the oven for 6 minutes at 464°F or until they are slightly browned on the surface and have formed a delicious crust. Once ready, let them cool for a moment and serve the ricotta and spinach crepes while still hot .
It is recommended to consume the ricotta and spinach crepes immediately. However, if you prefer, you can store them in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for up to 1-2 days.
Each season has its vegetables: transform the crepes each time by adding the seasonal vegetables you prefer! If béchamel isn't for you, no problem! Try thinning the ricotta with some milk to obtain a sort of smooth cream, or try them with some pre-cooked tomato sauce.

