name:
Tricolor Potato Gnocchi
ingredients:
White potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Eggs: 4.2oz(118 g)- (2 medium)
Spinach: 2 ½cups(75 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Tomato paste: 3tbsp(40 g)
Tomato purée: 2.1cups(500 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: 3leaves
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the tricolor potato gnocchi, wash the potatoes, place them in a pot full of water without peeling them , and boil them for about 30 minutes or until they are soft. Meanwhile, take care of the spinach, wash the leaves, then heat the oil in a pan, add the spinach , cover with a lid , and let them wilt for 5 minutes or until they are tender.
Once cooked, put them in a blender cup , blend them with an immersion blender until you obtain a puree which you will set aside.
Now take care of the sauce: heat the oil in a pot with a garlic clove, then add the tomato purée and cook for about 30 minutes on low heat, stirring occasionally. While the sauce is cooking, take the cooked potatoes, mash them with a potato ricer while still hot with the skin on (or peeled as you prefer), and collect the puree in a bowl . On a work surface, pour the flour (you can hold back a bit from the indicated amount and add as needed: for these doughs, in fact, you need to adjust by eye, as the absorption level of the flour used may vary or depending on the type of potatoes chosen), add the still hot potato puree ,
the fine salt and the beaten eggs . Now knead vigorously by hand
to obtain a homogeneous and compact dough that you will divide with a dough cutter into three equal parts of about 14.8 oz each . In one piece, add the tomato paste
knead with very little flour until you get a uniform color . Set aside for a moment, sprinkle the work surface again with very little flour, and add the spinach puree to another piece of dough , knead until it takes on a nice uniform green color .
This way, you will obtain three different colors: white, red, and green . Take a piece of dough and divide each dough into pieces from which to make logs 0.4 inches thick ,
cut them into pieces of about 0.6 inches with a knife (slightly floured) or a dough cutter (22-23) and place them on a tray floured with re-milled semolina flour to prevent them from sticking together. Meanwhile, your tomato sauce will be cooked, remove the garlic clove with kitchen tongs
and scent with fresh basil leaves . Bring a pot full of salted water to a boil, then cook the tricolor potato gnocchi for a few minutes : they will be ready when they float to the surface. While the gnocchi are cooking, pour a base of tomato sauce into the serving plates ;
as soon as the gnocchi reemerge on the surface, carefully drain them with a slotted spoon and place them on individual serving plates , garnish with basil leaves , and serve your tricolor potato gnocchi hot!
You can prepare the gnocchi in advance and freeze them before cooking: place them on a tray, and then, once frozen, transfer them to suitable food bags. This way, you will avoid them "sticking" together. But once cooked, it is best to consume them immediately.
To season your tricolor potato gnocchi, you can draw on other typical flavors such as Genoese pesto!
What potatoes to choose for perfect gnocchi? It is usually recommended to use white-fleshed potatoes, similar to yellow-fleshed potatoes but more floury and better suited for this type of dough, such as gnocchi, puree, and soufflé. The most common varieties of white-fleshed potatoes are Monalisa and Kennebec.

