name:
Nettle Risotto
ingredients:
Rice: 1.67cups(320 g)
Common nettles: 14.1oz(400 g)-
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tbsp(30 g)
White wine: ¼cup(50 g)
Leeks: 3.5oz(100 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus the time to prepare the vegetable broth

instructions:
To prepare the nettle risotto, first, start by making the Vegetable broth . At this point, take care of cleaning the nettles: first, wear gloves to protect your hands from their stinging power, which will disappear once cooked. Remove the leaves from the nettles, eliminating the stems: you will obtain about 7 oz of cleaned nettles ; then wash them in plenty of cold water and let them drain .
Pour 2 tsp of oil into a saucepan, let it heat, then add the nettles , cover with a lid , and when they are slightly wilted, add a little water (about 1/4 cup) which will help the cooking.
After about 10 minutes, the nettles will be ready , turn off the heat and transfer them into a tall glass and blend them with an immersion blender ,
until you obtain a smooth cream . Then set it aside and move on to the risotto. Take the leek, remove the ends , and slice it thinly .
In another saucepan, pour the remaining amount of oil, then add the leek , let it wilt over low heat for 4-5 minutes; then add the rice and toast it, stirring often. When it changes color, deglaze with white wine .
And only when all the alcohol has evaporated, add a couple of ladles of hot broth . Cook the risotto for about 5 minutes, then add the nettle cream , stir , and finish cooking the risotto by continuing to add more hot broth only as needed.
Once the rice is cooked, turn off the heat, add the butter , and stir it in . At this point, plate your nettle risotto and serve it with grated Parmesan cheese .
Nettle risotto can be stored for a maximum of one day in the refrigerator. Freezing is not recommended.
To stir in the risotto, you can substitute the butter with a creamy cheese like robiola.
Also, try the recipe for borage risotto with squid, another wild herb used in the kitchen to make delicious first courses!

