name:
Asparagus Pie
ingredients:
Rigatoni: 3 ½cups(500 g)
Asparagus: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Shallot: 2tbsp(30 g)
Sausage: 1.1lbs(500 g)
White wine: 2.8oz(80 g)- None
Vegetable broth: ¾cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tbsp(30 g)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅓cup(50 g)
Butter: 2oz(50 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Mozzarella cheese: 10.5oz(300 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 4.6oz(130 g)- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the asparagus pie, start by preparing the Vegetable broth . Then clean the asparagus with a peeler to remove the fibrous part of the stem . Cut off the white part at the base and slice the asparagus into rounds , being careful to keep the asparagus tips whole. Clean and finely chop the shallot .
With a knife, cut the casing of the sausage lengthwise to remove it easily and finely chop the meat .
Then, in a pan, heat the olive oil and add the shallot , let it soften for 5 minutes, then add the sausage and brown it for 4-5 minutes, then deglaze with the white wine . Let the wine evaporate,
season with chopped rosemary and add the sliced asparagus with the tips left whole ; cover with vegetable broth , continue cooking the ragù over moderate heat for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon.
Meanwhile, prepare the béchamel sauce: pour the milk into a saucepan and heat it, letting it just come to a boil, then flavor it with grated nutmeg . In another pot, melt the butter over low heat ,
then turn off the heat and add the sifted flour little by little , stirring with a whisk to prevent lumps. Then put it back on low heat and stir until it becomes golden. At this point, gradually add the hot milk , stirring vigorously with the whisk. Cook for 5-6 minutes over low heat until the sauce thickens, continuing to stir ; finally, salt and pepper to taste and turn off the heat.
Place a pot with plenty of water on the stove to salt when it boils. Meanwhile, cut the mozzarella into cubes , let it drain well by placing it in a colander with a bowl underneath to collect the whey . Meanwhile, the asparagus and sausage sauce will be cooked ; pour it into a bowl and set aside.
Boil the rigatoni , being careful to leave them al dente. Once ready, drain them with a slotted spoon directly into the bowl where you set aside the asparagus and sausage sauce , add a third of the béchamel sauce
and 70 g (2.5 oz) of grated Grana Padano and mix. Take a rather large baking dish that can hold the pasta, pour a layer of béchamel sauce on the bottom , then add half of the pasta ,
cover with half of the mozzarella pieces and a tablespoon of grated Grana Padano, pour the remaining half of the pasta and cover with the remaining mozzarella and grated cheese , distributing them over the entire surface. Bake the asparagus pie in a static oven at 180°F for 30 minutes. Once cooked, remove the asparagus pie from the oven, let it cool slightly, and then bring it to the table !
The asparagus pie can be stored in the fridge covered with plastic wrap for up to 2 days. It can also be frozen if you used fresh ingredients.
If you love bold flavors, you can replace the mozzarella with smoked provola, which is melty and flavorful!

