name:
Venetian Focaccia
ingredients:
Flour: 0.4cup(50 g)- mix of manitoba and 00
Sugar: 5tsp(20 g)
Whole milk: ⅓cup(80 g)- at room temperature
Brewer's yeast: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)- mix of manitoba and 00
Sugar: 4 ¾tsp(20 g)
Eggs: 2.1oz(60 g)- (about 1)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)- softened at room temperature
Flour: 3.5oz(100 g)- mix of manitoba and 00 flour
Flour: 1.6cups(200 g)- mix of manitoba and 00
Sugar: ¼cup(40 g)
Eggs: 2oz(56 g)- (about 1)
Fine salt: 1 ½tsp(10 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Orange peel: 1
Lemon peel: 1
White Rum: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)- softened at room temperature
Egg whites: ⅛cup(30 g)
Powdered sugar: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Granulated sugar: 5tsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note more than 25 hours of total leavening

instructions:
To prepare the Venetian focaccia, start by sifting together 250 g of all-purpose flour and 250 g of manitoba flour , to obtain a flour with the right strength; this amount will be sufficient for all subsequent doughs. Moreover, it is important that all ingredients are at a similar temperature to proceed with the preparation of the Venetian focaccia. Once you've obtained your flour mixture, stir it with a spoon and set aside 50 g, then place it in another bowl and add 20 g of sugar .
Add 4 g of dry yeast and pour in 80 ml of milk (at room temperature) in a stream, mixing with a fork until you get a smooth batter without lumps .
At this point, cover with plastic wrap and let rise in the oven turned off with the light on for 1 hour or until it has doubled in volume and bubbles have formed on the surface .
Now you can proceed to make the second dough: pour 150 g of the flour mixture and 20 g of sugar into the bowl of a stand mixer with a dough hook , add the starter , and include the egg, lightly beaten and always at room temperature .
Start working the dough at medium speed for 2-3 minutes , then add 30 g of butter (at room temperature) in two parts, waiting for the first piece to be absorbed before moving on to the second , and continue working the dough for another 6-7 minutes until it is well combined .
At this point, transfer the dough to a work surface using a dough scraper , shape it into a ball, and place it in a bowl , cover with plastic wrap, and let it rise again in the oven turned off with the light on for 4 hours until it has doubled in volume .
Then proceed with the third dough: pour 100 g of the previously prepared flour mixture and 20 g of sugar into the bowl of the stand mixer (still equipped with a dough hook) . Add the second dough , start the machine at medium speed, and add the egg (at room temperature) .
Wait 2-3 minutes and gradually add 30 g of soft butter , and continue to work the dough until it is well combined . At this point, transfer it to a work surface, and using your hands, give the dough some folds, pulling the outer edges of the dough towards the center , this will give it more strength.
Place it in a bowl and cover with plastic wrap . Put it back in the oven turned off with the light on for about 1 hour, until it has doubled in volume .
Now take care of the 4th and final dough: pour 200 g of the flour mixture into the bowl of the stand mixer, add 40 g of sugar , the third dough, the previously beaten egg , and work everything for a few minutes .
Then add the rum , let it be absorbed, and in the meantime grate the zest of an orange and a lemon . Then add the salt and the seeds from a vanilla pod to the stand mixer
and the citrus zests . Lastly, gradually add 40 g of softened butter and wait until the dough is well combined. Transfer it to a work surface
and give it folds again before shaping it into a ball. Transfer it to a bowl , cover as usual with plastic wrap, and let it rise in the refrigerator for 15 hours, then let it return to room temperature for about 2 hours.
At this point, transfer the dough to a lightly floured work surface, give it folds again, and shape the dough into a sphere . Place it inside a 1.65 lbs cardboard panettone mold and leave it in the oven turned off with the light on for about 2 hours, until the dough almost reaches the edge. Leave it at room temperature for a few minutes to slightly dry the outer part
and in the meantime prepare the glaze by slightly beating the egg whites with the powdered sugar until you get a frothy but not firm mixture . Using a sharp knife, cut a cross on the surface of the focaccia
and brush the entire upper dome with the glaze . Sprinkle with sugar granules and bake in a preheated static oven at 338 °F (the use of a convection oven is not recommended) for 30 minutes, then cover with foil and continue baking for another 20 minutes. To ensure the focaccia is cooked, you can always do the skewer test. Once baked, let your Venetian focaccia cool slightly before serving!
The Venetian focaccia can be stored for 2-3 days under a glass dome.
The original recipe includes the addition of the spumadoro aroma, based on citrus and turmeric, produced in Veneto. If you can find it, use that instead of the orange and lemon zest!

