name:
Zucchini Flan
ingredients:
Zucchini: 1lb(450 g)
Eggs: 3.5oz(100 g)- (approximately 2)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 3oz(80 g)
Pecorino cheese: 4tbsp(20 g)- grated
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: 4sprigs
Whole milk: ½cup(125 g)
Butter: 1tbsp(12 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2tsp(9 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(20 g)
Asiago cheese: 1tbsp(15 g)- aged grated

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Makes: 5 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the zucchini flan, wash and trim the zucchinis, then slice them into rounds . In a pan, heat the oil with a clove of garlic, peeled and halved ; when it is golden, remove it
and add the zucchini slices; salt and sauté them in the pan for about 5 minutes, stirring often. Then let the zucchinis cool down and transfer them to a mixer ,
add the eggs , ricotta cheese (if it seems very watery, you can let it drain in a sieve placed over a bowl for a few hours or overnight in the refrigerator before using it in the recipe), season with the grated Pecorino cheese
and flavor with fresh thyme leaves . Blend all the ingredients until a smooth mixture is obtained . Take 5 molds with a capacity of 4.6 oz each: we used molds with a surface diameter of 3 inches, a bottom diameter of 1.8 inches, and a height of 2.4 inches. Butter them carefully
then line them with parchment paper, cutting out circles for the bottom and strips for the edge . Alternatively, you can avoid lining the molds and once baked, to easily unmold the flans, just slide a knife blade around the edge. Fill the molds with the zucchini mixture, pouring about 4.6 oz of mixture for each mold . Then place the molds in a baking tray, add some water (a couple of inches will be sufficient)
and bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for about 60 minutes (or in a convection oven keeping the same timing, checking 10 minutes before the indicated time and covering with a sheet of aluminum foil if they tend to dry out too much on the surface). Once cooked, take the flans out of the oven , let them cool down and then unmold them by turning them over and removing the parchment paper wrapping them .
While the zucchini flan is baking, prepare the Mornay sauce: in a saucepan heat the milk without bringing it to a boil ; in the meantime, in another saucepan, melt the butter over low heat , add a pinch of salt to the completely melted butter
Then remove the melted butter from the heat and add the flour gradually, little by little , stirring with a whisk to avoid lumps . Put the saucepan back on low heat and toast the flour for a few moments while still stirring with a whisk and when it has browned ,
add the milk . Stir continuously and flavor with a grating of nutmeg .
Then once it reaches a boil, turn off the heat and add grated Asiago cheese . In a separate small bowl, beat the egg yolks with the fresh liquid cream , then add them to the béchamel sauce
and mix with the whisk to combine with the mixture (if necessary, you can return the sauce to the heat to thicken it further). Serve the zucchini flan accompanied by the hot Mornay sauce (32-33).
You can store the zucchini flans in the refrigerator for 2-3 days at most in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap. It is possible to freeze the cooked flans if fresh ingredients have been used. The Mornay sauce can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
For those with a sweet tooth, you can add cheese cubes to the flans to create a tasty melting heart: in this case, fill the mold halfway, insert a cheese cube, and then pour the remaining mixture, then bake!

