name:
Baci di Alassio
ingredients:
Whole hazelnuts: 2 ½cups(375 g)- unpeeled
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Egg whites: 2 ¼cups(160 g)- (from about 4-5 medium eggs)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 7tbsp(35 g)
Honey: 1.9tbsp(40 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.42cup(100 g)
Dark chocolate: 4.5oz(130 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the Baci di Alassio, place the hazelnuts on a baking sheet and toast them in a static preheated oven at 350°F for 8-10 minutes. Then let them cool slightly and transfer them to a food processor . Add the sugar
the cocoa and blend everything. Once you have obtained a powder as fine as possible , transfer it to a large bowl; separately, in another bowl, start whipping the egg whites with a mixer
until you get stiff peaks . Then pour the egg whites little by little into the powders and using a spatula, gently mix from bottom to top to combine everything .
Also add the honey and incorporate it into the dough, continuing to gently mix with the spatula . Transfer the resulting mixture into a pastry bag fitted with a star nozzle .
With a light pressure from your hands, recreate small tufts of dough on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper (13-14), obtaining about 45-50 depending on the size you give to each tuft. Bake your cookies in a static preheated oven at 350°F for 15-20 minutes (we do not recommend baking in a fan oven). Once out of the oven , let them cool while you prepare the ganache.
Finely chop the chocolate , put it in a bowl, and start melting it in a bain-marie, gently stirring with a whisk . Meanwhile, in a separate saucepan, heat the cream until it is almost boiling
and pour it directly into the already melted chocolate . Stir until you get a smooth ganache and transfer it to a bowl, covering it with plastic wrap , and let it cool for 15-20 minutes at room temperature.
Only when it is lukewarm, whip it with the mixer until it is completely cooled. Once you have obtained a thick and fluffy cream , transfer it into a pastry bag . Take one of the cookies and using the pastry bag, squeeze a tuft of cream onto the flat side .
Place another cookie on top and press it gently to make it adhere completely to the cream . The Baci di Alassio are ready , all you have to do is serve them!
The Baci di Alassio can be stored in a tin box for 4-5 days, previously wrapped in aluminum foil.
Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of hazelnuts, you can use hazelnut flour in the same quantities! Try a different version by making a white chocolate ganache!
Thanks to its kisses, Alassio has become part of the Chocolate Cities club and the Kiss Itinerary, a path not only of goodness but also of sweetness and romance.

