name:
Irish stew
ingredients:
Lamb: 4.4lbs(2 kg)- shoulder
Carrots: 1.4cups(150 g)
White onions: 1cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: 1sprig
Lamb: to taste- lamb bones
White onions: 1
Carrots: 1
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Cloves: 2
Coarse salt: ¾tsp(5 g)
Juniper: 2berries
Ground black pepper: 4

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note plus the cooking time of the meat broth

instructions:
To make the Irish Stew, take the lamb meat and separate the bones from the flesh , cut the latter into pieces about 3/4 inch . Use the bones to prepare the meat broth needed for cooking: peel an onion and leave it whole, insert cloves and bay leaves into the flesh to flavor.
Then cut the carrot into coarse pieces , fill a large pot with water, then add the carrot pieces, the onion spiked with bay leaves and cloves, and also add the black peppercorns and juniper berries. Add coarse salt .
And finally, add the lamb bones , cook over moderate heat for about 1 hour, skimming with a slotted spoon occasionally to remove excess fat . Once the broth is ready, you can proceed with making the Irish Stew: peel the carrots ,
cut them in half lengthwise, and then into small pieces about 3/4 inch . Peel the onion and slice it thinly . Also peel the potatoes .
And cut them into cubes, ideally the same size as the meat and carrots . Flour the lamb pieces , mixing to flour evenly, then place a large pot on the stove, heat the olive oil, and then add the floured pieces .
Salt , pepper, and let the meat brown for 5 minutes, then add the vegetables excluding the potatoes , pour in the meat broth you prepared until covering all the meat ,
cover with a lid and cook the Irish Stew over moderate heat for 50 minutes. After this time, add the potatoes to the pot , cover again with the lid , and continue cooking for another 50 minutes.
In the meantime, wash and chop the fresh parsley . When cooking is complete, turn off the heat and flavor the meat with the parsley . Your Irish stew is ready to be enjoyed piping hot .
Store the Irish Stew in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4-5 days. It can be frozen if fresh ingredients have been used.
Deglaze the pieces with beer, and you'll have an even more intense and captivating taste, in perfect Irish style!
Also try our chicken stew with chestnuts and mushrooms recipe, perfect for your autumn dinners.

