name:
Easter mini pies with peas
ingredients:
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)- cold from the refrigerator
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Water: 0.3cup(70 g)- cold
Fine salt: 1pinch
Thyme: to taste
Frozen peas: 1.67cups(250 g)
Shallot: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ¼tbsp(20 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.8cup(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.6oz(75 g)- grated
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Quail eggs: 4
Whole milk: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Note + the resting time for the shortcrust pastry (40 minutes)

instructions:
To prepare the Easter mini pies with peas, first start by making the shortcrust pastry. Pour into a mixer: the flour, salt, cold butter from the fridge cut into cubes , thyme leaves and start the blades until you get a fairly fine powder .
Then transfer it to a work surface and pour in the cold water slowly , start kneading with your hands, without warming the dough too much, until you get a homogeneous dough . Then wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the fridge for at least 40 minutes.
While the shortcrust pastry is resting, prepare the filling: chop the shallot and transfer it to a pan where you have already heated the oil , let it wilt for about 5 minutes and add the peas .
Stir gently , add a pinch of salt , the pepper, and cook for 4-5 minutes , just enough time to flavor the peas with the shallot, then let them cool.
At this point, sift the ricotta into a bowl , add a pinch of salt, the pepper, and grated Parmesan cheese . Also, add the now cold peas
and mix until you get a uniform mixture . After 40 minutes, take back the shortcrust pastry and roll it out on a lightly floured work surface until you get a sheet about 1/8 inch thick .
Place a bowl with a diameter of 5.5 inches on the sheet of pastry and with a knife cut the pastry circle following the contours of the bowl . Then place each circle into molds with a diameter of 4 inches , making them adhere well to the bottom and sides. With a knife, also cut the excess pastry that comes out of the mold . At this point, knead the shortcrust scraps again and keep them aside wrapped in plastic wrap; they will be used later to create the lattice.
With the prongs of a fork, prick the base of the Easter mini pies and with the help of two spoons place some of the just-prepared filling . Level it with a teaspoon and create a small cavity in the center ,
where you will place the shelled quail egg . Repeat the same operation for all 4 mini pies and cover again with more filling until you reach almost to the edge of the mold .
Roll out the shortcrust pastry again, kept aside , and using a fluted wheel , cut strips that will be used to create the lattice. To achieve a woven effect, place one strip horizontally
then one vertically and continue this way, alternating the orientation of the strips until you get a basket-like effect . Gently make the lattice adhere to the shortcrust base and cut the excess pastry with a knife .
Once you have finished your Easter mini pies, place them on a baking sheet and brush the lattice with milk . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40 minutes (alternatively, you can use a fan-assisted oven, preheated to 320°F, and bake your mini pies for 30 minutes). Only when they are cooked and well browned, remove your Easter mini pies with peas from the oven , let them cool slightly to enjoy them best, and serve .
The Easter mini pies with peas can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2-3 days. If you prefer, you can also freeze them once cooked.
Instead of small mini pies, you can make a single Easter pie using a 9.5-inch mold, and instead of quail eggs, you can use regular chicken eggs if you prefer!

