name:
Spring Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Shallot: 1
Vegetable broth: 2 ½cups(600 g)
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Asparagus: 8.8oz(250 g)- (to clean)
Peas: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Friar's beard (agretti): 7oz(200 g)- (to clean)
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(150 g)- (to clean)
Fresh scallion: 1
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to be grated)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Lemon peel: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the spring risotto, first, prepare the Vegetable broth following our recipe and keep it warm. Move on to the cleaning of the asparagus: remove the woody part of the stem and cut them into slices or diamonds, leaving the tips intact . Trim the zucchini and cut them first into sticks and then into cubes .
Clean the scallion by removing the roots and the green part, then slice it thinly . Finally, clean the agretti of their roots and chop them , being careful to set aside a few tufts for plating .
Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the scallion and sauté for a few minutes over medium heat. Add the asparagus , the zucchini , and cook for a few more minutes.
Pour in a ladle of vegetable broth , then add the peas and the agretti .
Season with salt and pepper , then cook over medium heat for 20-25 minutes . Set the vegetables aside.
Proceed to the risotto: in a pan, sauté the shallot with a splash of oil, then add the rice and toast it, stirring often. Deglaze with white wine and let all the alcohol evaporate. Cook the rice by adding one ladle of broth at a time , always waiting for the previous one to be absorbed before adding the next.
When about 5 minutes are left until the rice is done, add the vegetables , mix well , and finish cooking. Off the heat, add the butter .
Also add the grated Parmesan and stir until creamy. Plate and garnish with the reserved agretti .
Finish with grated lemon zest and a drizzle of raw oil . Your spring risotto is ready to be served !
It is advisable to consume the spring risotto as soon as it is ready.
The sautéed vegetables can be stored in the refrigerator for one day, in an airtight container.
If you like, you can scent the spring risotto with fresh thyme and marjoram leaves.
Alternatively, you can use shelled fresh fava beans instead of peas.

