name:
Rice pastiera
ingredients:
Butter: 9tbsp(125 g)- (cold from the fridge)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(315 g)
Eggs: 4oz(112 g)- (2 medium)
Sugar: 0.67cup(130 g)
Orange peel: 1
Baking powder: 1tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Carnaroli rice: ¾cup(150 g)
Water: 1.1cups(250 g)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Cinnamon sticks: 2
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1.8cups(400 g)
Cinnamon powder: to taste
Orange blossom water: 2tsp(10 g)
Eggs: 3
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + 30 min. of resting time for the base

instructions:
To prepare the rice pastiera, start by placing the ricotta in a strainer to drain the excess whey. In the meantime, prepare the pastry: on a work surface, pour the flour in a mound, add the sugar , salt , and baking powder .
Perfume with grated orange zest and add the cold butter cut into pieces . Knead quickly .
Add the eggs and continue kneading quickly to incorporate them and obtain a homogeneous dough, wrap it in plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator for 30 minutes . In a pot, pour the rice and water . Cook over high heat for 8 minutes from when it starts boiling, stirring often.
Add the milk , cinnamon sticks, orange zest, and sugar . Cook over low heat for 30 minutes, stirring often. Then remove the aromas .
Add the butter , stir and continue cooking for another 5 minutes, then pour the cooked rice into a baking dish , let it cool, cover with plastic wrap and set aside .
Take the pastry and roll it out on the work surface with a rolling pin to a thickness of half a centimeter, wrap the sheet around the rolling pin and unroll it on a flared pan measuring 22 cm at the base, 26 cm at the top, and 4 cm in height , previously buttered and floured.
Prick the bottom with a fork . Sift the ricotta through a strainer to make it smoother . Beat the eggs in a bowl and pour them over the ricotta .
Mix with a whisk, flavor with cinnamon powder and orange blossom . Add the cooked and cooled rice .
Pour the filling into the mold, leveling the surface with the back of a spoon . Roll out the remaining pastry again to a thickness of half a centimeter. Cut strips 2 cm wide, long enough to cover the dessert. Place a row of strips on the pastiera .
Then weave them in the other direction to create diamonds . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 60 minutes, on the lowest shelf of the oven. Once cooked, let the dessert cool and then garnish with powdered sugar . The rice pastiera is ready to be served .
Store the rice pastiera in the refrigerator for up to 3-4 days. The rice pastiera can be frozen when cooked and thawed as needed in the refrigerator, then warmed before serving.
Prepare the rice pastiera a day in advance so that it can absorb all the fragrances and aromas that will be released when you cut the first slice!

