name:
Pignolata with honey
ingredients:
Flour: 2.3cups(300 g)- type 00
Eggs: - 2 whole eggs plus 1 yolk (total weight 125 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)- granulated
Grappa: 0.7oz(20 g)
Lemons: - the zest of 1
Salt: 1pinch
Vegetable oil: 2 ¾cups(600 g)
Honey: 7 ½tbsp(160 g)- wildflower
Sprinkles: to taste- colored

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus 2 hours of resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the Pignolata with honey, pour the sifted flour into a bowl , then add the soft butter cut into pieces , and the salt
the granulated sugar , then flavor with the grated zest of one untreated lemon and the grappa .
Finally, add the two whole eggs and the yolk . Begin kneading by hand vigorously to mix the ingredients, then transfer the dough to a floured surface .
Continue kneading until you get a compact dough and shape it into a loaf . Wrap the obtained loaf with plastic wrap and let it harden in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours. After the resting time, take the dough and with a dough scraper divide it into pieces about 0.4 inches wide .
Roll each piece to obtain small rods , then cut these into small pieces about 0.4 inches (14-15).
Now you can proceed with cooking, heat the seed oil in a pot to about 340°F, this is the ideal temperature for perfect frying, it's advisable to use a cooking thermometer to monitor precisely. With a slotted spoon, immerse a few morsels at a time so as not to lower the oil temperature. Fry for about 3-4 minutes, then drain the morsels and place them on a tray lined with absorbent paper to dry the excess oil .
Gather the pignolata in a bowl and pour honey over it while the morsels are still hot, stir to mix the honey , transfer the honey-coated pignolata to a serving plate and decorate with colorful sprinkles to your liking !
They can be stored for 2-3 days under a glass dome. Freezing is not recommended.
Don't like the aroma of grappa in the dough? Just use the same amount of water!

