name:
Glazed Pignolata
ingredients:
Eggs: 4.4oz(125 g)- (2 whole + 1 yolk)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Sugar: 5tsp(20 g)
Grappa: 0.7oz(20 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Egg whites: 1.3oz(37 g)- (about 1)
Lemon juice: 1tbsp(15 g)
Powdered sugar: 1.67cups(200 g)
Dark chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note plus 2 hours of resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the glazed Pignolata, sift the flour into a bowl , then add the softened butter in pieces , and the salt .
The granulated sugar , then flavor with the grated zest of an untreated lemon and with the grappa .
Finally, add the two whole eggs and the yolk , setting aside the remaining egg white to make the glaze. Begin to knead vigorously by hand to combine the ingredients, then transfer the dough onto a floured work surface .
Continue kneading until you obtain a compact dough, shaping it into a loaf . Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it firm up in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours. After resting, take the dough and cut it into pieces about 1/2 inch (1 cm) wide with a dough scraper .
Roll each piece to form ropes , then cut these into small gnocchi about 1/2 inch (1 cm) in size (14-15).
Now you can proceed with cooking. Heat the frying oil in a pot to about 340°F (170°C), which is the ideal temperature for perfect frying. It's advisable to use a food thermometer to monitor the temperature precisely. With a slotted spoon, submerge a few gnocchi at a time in the oil to avoid lowering the oil's temperature. Fry for about 3-4 minutes, then drain the bites and place them on a tray lined with paper towels to absorb excess oil .
Now, prepare the glazes. For the lemon glaze, pour the egg white into a bowl and begin whisking while gradually adding the powdered sugar until fully incorporated, and then pour in the strained lemon juice . Continue whisking the mixture until it becomes thick .
Pour the lemon glaze over half of the Pignolata and mix to incorporate . Now prepare the chocolate glaze: melt the chopped dark chocolate in a double boiler, add the butter , and heat over moderate heat, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon,
until the chocolate is completely melted . At this point, pour the melted chocolate over the remaining half of the Pignolata, mix , and transfer the dessert onto a serving plate or stand, alternating the two glazes . The glazed Pignolata is ready to be enjoyed.
The glazed Pignolata can be stored for 2-3 days outside the refrigerator, under a glass dome. Freezing is not recommended.
To make the dessert even more festive for Carnival, garnish the glazed Pignolata with colorful sprinkles!

