name:
Nervetti salad
ingredients:
Veal: 5.5lbs(2.5 kg)- the feet
Carrots: 1.8oz(50 g)
Celery: ½cup(50 g)
Bay leaves: 5leaves
Ground black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
White wine vinegar: 3 ⅓tbsp(50 g)
Red onions: 1.75oz(50 g)
Peperoni in oil: 2.8oz(80 g)
Parsley: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: 4 ½tbsp(60 g)
Black pepper: to taste
White wine vinegar: 3tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 h 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 2 h of cooling

instructions:
To prepare the nervetti salad, start by thoroughly washing the veal feet, also the knees if you have them, under running water . Then, using a cleaver, cut the feet into pieces , then also cut the celery and carrot, after cleaning them .
In a large pot, add the meat and vegetables then add the bay leaf and cover with plenty of water . Finally, add the salt, black peppercorns, and white wine vinegar and bring to a boil, covering with a lid.
Cook on low heat for about two and a half hours, keeping the lid on the pot and once cooked, drain the parts , allowing them to cool in a container . Remove the meat from the bones with your hands
and cut the nervetti into thin strips , collect them in a glass container and let them cool for an hour . Thinly slice the onion, cleaned and with the core removed, i.e., the central part
and then cut the pickled peppers into strips as well . At this point, take the nervetti and add them to the onions and peppers .
Adjust with oil, salt, and black pepper and mix well . Chop the parsley after washing and drying it,
and add it to the salad along with the vinegar . Mix again and at this point your nervetti salad is ready to be enjoyed .
Traditionally, nervetti salad is stored at room temperature, covered with plastic wrap, and kept in a cool place for no more than one day. It can also be stored in the refrigerator, well covered, for up to 2 days, but the flavor will tend to diminish.
Your nervetti salad can become even richer with the addition of cooked legumes, such as cannellini or borlotti beans. Or add pitted olives or pickled onions!
Nervetti salad is an old recipe that was prepared by taverns, especially those in Lombardy, to avoid wasting parts of the veal that would otherwise be discarded. However, over time, this practice has been lost to the point that today you can find the nervetti already cooked and pressed. Our advice is to ensure that they are indeed veal cartilage or to prepare this traditional dish at home.

