name:
Gluten-free walnut bread
ingredients:
Potato starch: 1cup(125 g)
Whole rice flour: 1cup(125 g)
Buckwheat flour: 0.6cup(75 g)
Corn flour: ½cup(75 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)
Honey: 2tsp(10 g)
Water: 2cups(475 g)- at room temperature
Walnut kernels: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste- for greasing the mold

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note plus the dough rising time (about 4 hours)

instructions:
To prepare the walnut bread, start by coarsely chopping the already shelled walnuts with a knife . Then, in a large bowl, sift the flours: whole grain rice flour , buckwheat flour ,
potato starch and corn flour . Then add the dry yeast ,
and the honey ; start mixing the ingredients with a fork while pouring the room temperature water slowly . The dough should be quite liquid .
Finally, also add the chopped walnuts . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let the dough rise for 2 hours in the turned-off oven with the light on. After the rising time, your dough will have doubled in volume .
Take a rectangular mold of 10X4 inches (a loaf pan will be fine), grease it with vegetable oil on the bottom and sides . Pour the dough into the mold and level it with a spatula ;
At this point , cover with plastic wrap and let it rise again in the turned-off oven with the light on until it reaches the edge , it will take about 2 hours. After the rising time, preheat the oven to 428°F by placing a pot filled with water in the oven to facilitate humidification and prevent the bread from drying out too much during baking. Then bake the walnut bread on the lower shelf of the oven for 50 minutes, removing the pot with water only after the first 20 minutes of baking. Remove the walnut bread from the oven and let it cool slightly, then turn it over onto a rack to cool completely before serving it .
Store the walnut bread in a paper bag for 2-3 days. It is possible to freeze the walnut bread; in this case, we recommend toasting it in the oven before consuming.
Alternatively to walnuts, you can also use other nuts such as hazelnuts or pine nuts, or a mix containing various types.
For gluten-free recipes, we recommend purchasing only products that display the crossed-out ear on the packaging, certified gluten-free, recommended by the AIC Italian Celiac Association directory.

