name:
Carrot Bread
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Brewer's yeast: ¼tsp(1.5 g)
Water: 0.6cup(150 g)- at room temperature
Carrots: 2 ½cups(270 g)
Type 00 flour: 3cups(370 g)
Water: 0.8cup(190 g)- at room temperature
Fine salt: 1 ½tsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅓cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note plus the rising time (19 hours)

instructions:
To prepare the carrot bread, start by making the poolish: pour the Manitoba flour into a small bowl along with the dry yeast and add the water slowly, stirring with a fork . Once you have a batter, cover with plastic wrap and let rise in the oven turned off with the light on for 3 hours.
Once it has doubled in volume , take care of the carrots: peel them (you will get 245 g of cleaned carrots) and grate them with a coarse grater ; set them aside.
In another bowl, combine all-purpose flour and dry yeast , add the now risen poolish and start kneading by pouring in the water gradually .
Once you have a homogeneous mixture, add the salt and the oil ; continue kneading and also add the grated carrots .
Once the carrots are incorporated , cover with a dish towel and let the dough rest for about ten minutes at room temperature, away from drafts. At this point, give the dough folds by taking the outer edges
and bringing them towards the center , then cover again with the dish towel. Repeat this operation every 10 minutes, two more times, always covering with the dish towel at the end of each operation. After finishing the folds, cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let the dough rise in the refrigerator for 12 hours; then place it in the oven turned off with the light on for 2 hours until it has doubled in volume .
After this time, transfer it to a well-floured work surface, using a bench scraper and give the dough a couple of reinforcement folds , bringing the edges towards the center; then form the loaf
and transfer it to a well-floured bread proofing basket . Cover with a dish towel and let rise for 1 and a half hours (in an oven turned off with the light on is fine). Once the dough has grown to the edge of the basket ;
place a sheet of parchment paper over the basket ; then place it on the oven tray and flip everything over to transfer the bread more easily onto the tray . Bake the bread in a preheated static oven at 464°F for about 40 minutes (if your oven can reach a maximum temperature of 428°F, extend the cooking time by at least 10 minutes), being careful to add a bowl full of water as soon as you turn on the oven, which will help create the right humidity. After 40 minutes, remove the bowl with water and continue baking for another 10 minutes.
At this point, turn off the oven. Take the carrot bread out and let it cool on a wire rack . Your carrot bread is ready, slice it to serve and enrich your bread basket!
Carrot bread can be stored for 2-3 days in a plastic bag, otherwise, it can be frozen, preferably after it has been baked.
You can freeze it once baked, perhaps in slices so you can defrost and heat only what you want to consume!

If you don't have a bread proofing basket, you have two alternatives: you can use a common fruit basket lined with a well-floured dish towel to give it a rustic shape. Alternatively, you can transfer the loaf directly onto a parchment-lined oven tray, keeping in mind that this way, the shape will hold less, and you may get a result more similar to a ciabatta; once it has risen, bake it directly!

