name:
Gluten-Free Pasta Salad
ingredients:
Gluten-free Ditalini pasta: 7oz(200 g)
Speck: 2.8oz(80 g)
Piccadilly tomatoes: 0.9cup(160 g)
Black olives: 0.7cup(80 g)
Feta cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Basil: 4leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Meat broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the preparation time for the meat broth

instructions:
To prepare the gluten-free pasta salad, start by making a good Beef Broth . Clean the vegetables, cut them, and place them in a pot along with the meat and cover with 3 liters (about 12 cups) of water . Let it cook for two hours over medium-high heat, add another 1 liter (about 4 cups) of water, and finish cooking for an hour over low heat . At the end of cooking, strain the broth .
And transfer it back to the pot. When it starts boiling again, take the pasta and cook it in the meat broth. While the ditalini cook, prepare the dressing. Clean the tomatoes and cut them into wedges first and then into cubes .
Cut the speck into strips and the feta into cubes . Finally, pit the olives .
Drain the cooked pasta and transfer it to a large bowl. Dress it immediately with a tablespoon of oil, mix it to prevent sticking , and let it cool. Then add the cherry tomatoes, the feta .
The speck , the olives , and the hand-torn basil .
Finally, season with salt and pepper and mix well to combine the flavors . Now your gluten-free pasta salad is ready to enjoy!
You can store the gluten-free pasta salad in the fridge well covered for 1 day.
The great thing about pasta salads is that they can be customized without limits: try adding capers or sun-dried tomatoes, or some cubes of mozzarella or soft cheese, or for more delicate palates, replace the flavorful speck with diced cooked ham! If you don't have fresh basil available, you can use dried oregano!
To store the meat broth, if you've used fresh, not thawed ingredients, you could freeze it in small portions to use as needed.
For gluten-free recipes, we recommend purchasing only products that display the crossed-out wheat symbol on the packaging, certified gluten-free, as recommended by the AIC Italian Celiac Association guide.

