name:
Pretzel buns
ingredients:
Water: 0.8cup(185 g)
Baking soda: 6tsp(30 g)
Fine salt: 0.8tsp(5 g)
Brewer's yeast: 0.1oz(2 g)
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)- at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 2 ¾cups(340 g)
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 18 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + 2 hours of dough rising

instructions:
To prepare the pretzel buns, start by sifting the flour into a stand mixer equipped with a dough hook. Add the yeast and butter at room temperature . Start working the dough, turning the hook on at low speed, and gradually add the water at room temperature .
Once the water is incorporated, let the hook work for another minute, so that the dough comes together; then add the salt . Increase the speed (from low to medium) and continue kneading for 7-8 minutes. After this time, the dough should be well kneaded . Transfer it to the work surface and use your hands to form a log .
Use a dough scraper to divide the log into 8 pieces of 2.3 oz each . Give each piece reinforcing folds by gathering the side edges towards the center and then doing the same with the top and bottom edges .
Seal carefully, forming a ball, and place it on a sheet lined with parchment paper, keeping the smooth side up . Continue this way with all the other balls, then cover with a clean cloth and let your buns rise in the oven turned off with the light on for about 2 hours, or until doubled in volume. Once risen, bring a pot of water to a boil. Lower the heat and gradually add the baking soda to the pot . Dip your buns one at a time .
and let them boil for 30 seconds , turning them on both sides. Drain them with a slotted spoon and place them gently on the baking sheet lined with parchment paper where you intend to bake them . With a sharp knife, make a deep cross cut on the surface of the buns .
Brush your pretzel buns with beaten egg and bake them in a preheated static oven at 428°F for 18 minutes . Let your pretzel buns cool before enjoying them, either on their own or filled as your imagination suggests .
You can store the pretzel buns in a paper bag for 1-2 days. You can also freeze them raw, before dipping them in water and baking soda.
These pretzel buns are the perfect size for mini burgers and small sandwiches, but if you prefer a nice bun for maxi burgers, just use 3.5 oz of dough for each bun. With these doses, you will get 5.
Another tip: if for you pretzel means not only brown crust and soft white heart, but also tasty salt grains on the surface... just sprinkle your pretzel buns with fleur de sel just before baking them!

