name:
Florentine Schiacciata
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(115 g)- cold
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (1 medium)
Oranges: ½- zest
Fresh brewer's yeast: 2tsp(10 g)
Saffron: 1bag
Nutmeg: 1pinch
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Fine salt: ½tsp(2 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note +2-3 hours of leavening

instructions:
To prepare the Florentine schiacciata, start by pouring the yeast into the milk and dissolve it using a teaspoon . In the bowl of the stand mixer, or by hand if you don't have one, pour the flour .
Add the sugar , spices , and grated orange zest .
Start the hook at medium-low speed and pour in the milk gradually . Once incorporated, add the egg and then the salt .
At this point, let the hook work for about ten minutes : initially, the dough will tend to separate, but gradually it will become uniform . If necessary, turn off the machine and push the dough towards the center. Once it's smooth, continue by adding the soft butter one piece at a time: this operation will take about 5-10 minutes .
The dough will be ready when it is well incorporated onto the hook . Transfer it to the work surface . It will be soft and slightly sticky, but don't worry and don't add flour, because now it's time to give the reinforcement folds. You need to lift it quickly ,
and slap it on the surface, bringing the dough from the point closest to you and folding it over itself to form a ball . Repeat this operation 3 times in total. At this point, it will become smooth, so round the dough with the help of a dough scraper .
and transfer it to a large, buttered bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and let it double in a warm place (in the oven with the light on or under a blanket), for about 2-3 hours . Transfer the risen dough into a 14x11 inch baking tray greased and lined with parchment paper and press it evenly to cover its entire surface. You can use a roller to level it or simply spread it with your fingertips .
Cover with plastic wrap or another tray and let it rise for another 20-30 minutes at room temperature . Bake the Florentine schiacciata in a static oven, preheated to 392°F, for about 15 minutes .
When it's cool, flip it onto a cutting board and sprinkle with plenty of powdered sugar , place the lily-shaped stencil and dust with cocoa . Carefully remove the stencil and enjoy your homemade Florentine schiacciata !
The Florentine schiacciata can be stored in a cool, dry place for a couple of days.
We do not recommend freezing.
The Florentine schiacciata, in its oldest version, included the use of lard, but we preferred butter which, although less flavorful than lard, offers an equally soft and delicate consistency, but with a milder taste and a lighter result.
The spice mix can vary from family to family: cloves, vanilla, and nutmeg are some common variations.

