name:
Ossobuco with peas
ingredients:
Veal marrow bones: 3.1lbs(1400 g)- (4 pieces)
White wine: 2.1oz(60 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Yellow onions: 2.1oz(60 g)
Celery: 2.1oz(60 g)
Carrots: ½cup(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Meat broth: 1cup(250 g)
Peas: 1cup(160 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note plus the time to prepare the meat broth

instructions:
To make the ossobuco with peas, start by preparing the Beef Broth : wash and peel the vegetables and place them in a large, high-sided pot with the oil. Season with whole peppercorns and cloves. Add the meat and cover with 3 quarts of water. Let it cook over medium-high heat for about 2 hours, until the broth reduces by about half. Then add the remaining quart of water and let it cook for another hour over low heat. At the end of cooking , strain the broth through a fine-mesh sieve .
Now take care of the basic sauté: wash and peel the carrot, onion, and celery, then finely chop them . In a large pan, melt the butter with the olive oil , then add the chopped vegetables
and let them soften over moderate heat for about 10-15 minutes . Take the ossobuco cuts and use kitchen scissors or a knife to cut the membrane surrounding them ; this will prevent the meat from curling during cooking. Flour the ossobuco cuts on both sides
place them in the pan once the sauté is ready . Brown the ossobuco on both sides . Deglaze with white wine , let it evaporate
season with salt and pepper, then moisten the meat with the broth . Continue cooking over low heat for 1.5 hours, covering with the lid but leaving a vent. Halfway through, turn the ossobuco cuts
Occasionally move the pan back and forth to prevent the ossobuco from sticking, and if it becomes too dry, add more broth to the preparation. About 10 minutes before cooking ends, add the peas . If in season, use fresh peas in the same amount, making sure to cook them longer. Your ossobuco cuts are ready , serve them hot !
Ossobuco with peas can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to a day. Freezing is not recommended.
Want an extra touch of flavor and color? Easy: just add some tomato puree during cooking and dipping bread is guaranteed!

