name:
Beetroot Bread
ingredients:
Brewer's yeast: 0.3tsp(1.5 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Water: ⅔cup(150 g)- at room temperature
Water: ¾cup(190 g)- at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 3cups(370 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Beets: 6.7oz(190 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 19 hours of rest for leavening

instructions:
To make beetroot bread, start by preparing the poolish, a highly hydrated pre-ferment: in a bowl, pour the sifted flour , add the dry yeast, and then gradually pour in the water, stirring with a fork to prevent lumps from forming , then cover with plastic wrap and let rise in a turned-off oven with the light on for at least 3 hours or until the dough has doubled in size.
In the meantime, prepare the beetroots: peel them and grate them using a grater with large holes . After the rising time, retrieve the poolish, which will have doubled in size .
At this point, continue with the dough preparation: in a bowl, sift the all-purpose flour, add the dry yeast and the poolish ; start kneading by hand, gradually pouring in the water as well .
Then add the olive oil and finally the salt . Mix the ingredients well and then incorporate the grated beetroot .
Knead everything and cover with plastic wrap or a cloth and leave at room temperature, making sure to fold the dough every 10 minutes for 3 times . Then let it rise for another 12 hours in the refrigerator . After 12 hours, take out the dough and place it in a turned-off oven with the light on for at least 2 hours. After resting, the dough will have increased in volume .
Transfer it to a work surface, generously dusting with flour as it will be very hydrated . Give it some folds and then form a ball. Flour a proofing basket well and let it rise until it reaches the edge of the basket .
The final rise will take about 1 and a half hours. After this time, flip the bread onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper (19-20) and bake in a preheated oven at 430°F for 40 minutes, making sure to place a small bowl of water in the oven for the first 40 minutes of baking. Then, after this time, remove the bowl of water and continue baking for another 20 minutes. Once baked, take out your beetroot bread and let it cool before serving !
Beetroot bread can be stored in a paper bag for 2-3 days.
It can be frozen, preferably after baking.
Don't have a proofing basket? No worries, you can shape the loaf and let it rise on the baking sheet you'll use for baking. If you can't find raw beetroots, you can use pre-cooked ones, making sure to drain them to remove any excess water.

