name:
Scialatielli
ingredients:
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 2 ½cups(400 g)
Eggs: 1.75oz(50 g)- (about 1)
Whole milk: ¾cup(175 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)- grated
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.7tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the scialatielli, start by finely chopping the basil leaves , previously washed and dried. Then, in a bowl, pour the durum wheat flour and add the lightly beaten egg, working everything with the help of a fork . Add the grated Pecorino cheese as well
then the minced basil , and after adding the room temperature milk in a stream , begin kneading by hand, finally pouring in the extra virgin olive oil .
Transfer the mixture onto a pastry board and continue kneading, always by hand, for about 8 minutes . Obtain a smooth and homogeneous loaf, wrap it in plastic wrap, and let it rest at room temperature for 30 minutes .
Divide the dough in two , keep the second half always wrapped in plastic to prevent it from drying out in the air, and work the first part on the pastry board, lightly floured with semolina, rolling it out with a rolling pin to about 1/4 inch thick . Sprinkle a little more semolina on the sheet and roll the edges towards the center. First from one side and then from the other until reaching the center.
With a sharp blade, cut the dough into rings of about 1/2 an inch thick . Unroll them gently with your hands , they should be about 5-6 inches long. At this point, your scialatielli are ready to be cooked in plenty of boiling salted water for 4-5 minutes.
You can prepare the scialatielli and let them dry in the air for a few hours: keep them on a tray with a cloth dusted with semolina.
You can also freeze the dough. In this case, you can roll and cut the dough to obtain nests that you will place on a tray with a cloth. Once frozen, place them in freezer bags for food storage.
How to dress this staple of Campanian cuisine? Obviously, with seafood cooked in a pan along with some cherry tomatoes to enhance the flavor. Also, try a white and vegetarian version, for example with sautéed zucchinis.
Scialatielli were born in 1978 from the hands of chef Enrico Cosentino, a pasta format that earned him the title of entremetier of the year. Over time, they have been recognized as a Traditional Agro-food Product of the Campania region, and there are several versions, with or without eggs and with water instead of milk. The characteristic dressing is based on seafood, but they can be customized each time with seasonal ingredients that you prefer!

