name:
Scallops with Fruit Salad
ingredients:
Scallops: 16
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Mango: 1
Papaya: 1
Granny Smith apples: 1
Mandarin orange juice: 2
Mustard: 1tsp- whole
Honey: 1tsp
Tabasco®: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Lamb's lettuce: 1 ½cup(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 4 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the scallops with fruit salad, start with the latter: peel the mango , then cut into slices by slicing until reaching the harder part . Then squeeze the central part by hand into a small bowl to collect the mango juice and set aside: you will use it for the sauce. Proceed to peel the papaya
cut it in half and remove the inner seeds with a spoon . Then cut into thin slices and set aside.
Cut the apple in half without peeling it, remove the core, and slice before cutting into sticks . Then plunge them into cold water acidulated with lemon juice to prevent browning .
Next, prepare the fruit sauce: squeeze the juice from 2 mandarins , pour it into the bowl where you collected the mango juice , and add the grainy mustard .
Add the honey and flavor with a few drops of Tabasco . Then lightly salt and pepper ;
Then remove the scallops from the shells, taking only the white part (with the coral part of the scallops you could make an excellent risotto!); lightly salt and pepper, then heat a pan with a little extra virgin olive oil and sear the scallops for about 4 minutes, turning them halfway through cooking (17-18). Once ready, you can transfer them to a paper towel.
Now you can compose the serving plates: lay a bed of lamb's lettuce, place the mango slices, papaya, and well-drained apple sticks , then place the scallops and drizzle with the mango and mandarin sauce ; your scallops with fruit salad are ready to enjoy !
It is recommended to consume the scallops with fruit salad immediately.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can also bake the scallops; in this case, you can remove the coral part and bake the scallops in the shells placed on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, just for a few minutes! You can also enrich the dish with nuts: cashews or sliced almonds, for example, would be perfect!

