name:
Roast pork in porchetta
ingredients:
Pork loin: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Pork rind: 1.5lbs(650 g)
Rosemary: 4sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the roast pork in porchetta, start by removing the tendons with a sharp blade . Let the blade slide between the meat and the translucent white part, being careful not to cut the meat . This operation serves to eliminate the toughest part of the meat. Set the loin aside and finely chop the rosemary with a knife .
In a small bowl, add a pinch of salt and mix with a teaspoon to combine everything . Place the rind on a cutting board and sprinkle the entire surface with salt and rosemary .
Place the pork loin in the middle and carefully wrap it with the rind so that the meat is completely covered .
At this point, you will need to How to tie a roast . So wrap the string lengthwise, tying the ends . Leave a longer piece of string. Make a first knot on the upper part of one of the two ends to secure the base . Then continue to repeat, in this way the various slip knots will hold the rind firmly with the meat .
Finally, make a second round around the loin with the string, passing it along the top and tighten with a knot . Sprinkle everything with a bit of extra virgin olive oil
and place the roast on a baking tray lined with parchment paper , bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for 1 and a half hours (it's not recommended to use a convection oven, as the meat would dry out too much). To be sure about the cooking, use a meat thermometer and make sure it reaches the center of the loin, whose optimal temperature should be 156°F. Your roast pork in porchetta is ready to be untied as you slice it ! Enjoy your meal!
We recommend consuming roast pork in porchetta immediately as storing it would cause it to lose tenderness. If you want, you can store it in the refrigerator for up to 2 days in a hermetically sealed container.
Freezing is not recommended.
An even tastier and more fragrant roast? Try using sage or thyme! But if you don't like them, feel free to use the spices you prefer. If you're an avid fan of the aroma of garlic, rub one on the entire surface of the loin! What is the ideal side dish? Obviously, potatoes cooked strictly together with the roast!

