name:
Pork tenderloin with orange
ingredients:
Pork: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- fillet
Yellow onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Celery: 2.1oz(60 g)
Carrots: 3.5oz(100 g)
Rosemary: 4sprigs
Thyme: 4sprigs
Orange juice: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Kampot peppers: to taste
Fine salt: 1 ½tsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Vegetable broth: 0.7cup(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the orange pork tenderloin, prepare the Vegetable broth . Then move on to the vegetables that will be used to flavor the roast: wash and peel the celery and carrot, peel the onion, and then proceed to cut the vegetables into coarse pieces (1-2-3).
Squeeze the juice of an orange and set it aside. Now focus on the meat: first, place the pork tenderloin on a cutting board and remove excess fat and tendons (the translucent white part). Then create the netting with kitchen twine (5-6), to perform this operation best, follow our cooking school guide: How to tie a roast .
Insert the rosemary and thyme sprigs between the twine knots , then salt and massage the meat with crushed Kampot pepper (you can also use ground black pepper instead) . Take a pot or a high-sided pan suitable for oven cooking, heat the olive oil with the peeled garlic clove
place the meat in the pan and sear it on all sides over high heat to create a crust on the surface. Deglaze with the orange juice , then add the peppercorns
proceed by adding all the vegetables: the celery , the onions , and the carrots .
Lastly, add the vegetable broth . At this point, turn off the heat and continue cooking in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C) for 1 hour. Once cooked , remove the tenderloin from the pot (keeping the cooking juices aside)
remove the netting created with the twine and cut it into slices . In a high-sided container, pour the cooking juices with the vegetables and, using an immersion blender, reduce everything to a smooth sauce , if it turns out too liquid, thicken it on the stove, otherwise, you can thin it with some broth until you reach the desired consistency.
Distribute part of the sauce on a serving dish , place the sliced roast (if you prefer, you can leave part of it whole) and season it with more sauce . You can garnish the orange pork tenderloin with thin slices of orange and serve it hot .
If you used fresh meat, you can freeze the orange pork tenderloin; otherwise, the preparation can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 2-3 days.
Can't find Kampot pepper? Don't worry, just replace it with the more common black pepper. As for the herbs, you can use bay leaves if you enjoy their intense aroma.

