name:
Fregola with lentils
ingredients:
Fregola pasta: 2.1cups(320 g)
Dried lentils: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Prosciutto crudo: 7.1oz(200 g)
Leeks: 3.5oz(100 g)
Tomato purée: 1.67cups(400 g)
Vegetable broth: 5 ½cups(1.3 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Marjoram: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare fregola with lentils, start by preparing the Vegetable broth . Rinse the lentils under running water (lentils do not need soaking); then move on to preparing the sauce base: remove the two ends of the leek, along with the first two layers, then slice into rings . Continue with the cured ham by first cutting it into slices about 1/8 inch thick, then into sticks , and finally into small cubes . Stir occasionally.
In a pan, let the leek cook on low heat for 6-7 minutes in the extra virgin olive oil , then add the cured ham cubes and cook for 2-3 minutes . Cover with tomato sauce
stir and add the lentils . Adjust with salt and pepper, pour 2 cups of vegetable broth , and cover with a lid, letting it cook for about 45 minutes on low heat . If you notice the mixture drying out too much, you can add a bit more broth.
When the sauce is finally cooked, add the fregola . This should be cooked like risotto, adding a ladle of liquid as needed; ours takes about 30 minutes to cook, but you can adjust according to the instructions on your package. Remember to stir often to prevent the pasta from sticking to the bottom .
Chop the marjoram with a knife and sprinkle it over the cooked mixture . The fregola with lentils is ready; all that's left is to plate and serve !
It is recommended to consume the fregola with lentils immediately. If you wish, you can prepare the sauce in advance and cook the fregola later.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can substitute the cured ham with pancetta or speck for a more intense flavor, while if you have leftover cotechino, feel free to use it! Lentils do not need to be soaked before cooking, but to speed up the process, you could soak them for 1-2 hours max or use decorticated lentils.

