name:
Ricotta and Spinach Roll
ingredients:
Eggs: 15.2oz(430 g)- (about 8)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ⅓cup(100 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3oz(80 g)- (to grate)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tsp(5 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Spinach: 10cups(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Black pepper: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the ricotta and spinach roll, start by cooking the latter. Rinse the spinach and pat them dry with kitchen paper. Then pour the oil into a pan, add the garlic , let it turn golden, and also add the spinach . Cover everything with a lid
and cook for about ten minutes until the spinach have wilted . At this point, remove the garlic and transfer the spinach to a sieve ; in this way, they will cool down and lose any excess liquid.
Proceed to make the omelette: break the eggs in a bowl , beat them slightly with a whisk and season with salt and pepper . At this point, add 1/2 cup (approximately 1.77 oz) of grated Grana Padano PDO and incorporate it into the egg mixture, setting aside the remaining 1/4 cup.
Sift the ricotta directly into the mixture and blend it with the rest using a whisk . Then pour everything into a 13.5x10.5 inches baking pan , lined with parchment paper and slightly greased. Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 25 minutes (if using a convection oven, bake at 320°F for 15/20 minutes). The omelette should be soft and compact, not burnt on the surface.
After this time, take the omelette out of the oven and sprinkle the entire surface with the Grana Padano PDO set aside earlier . Bake again for another 10 minutes to let the cheese melt and create a pleasant golden crust. When the omelette is ready, remove the pan from the oven , place plastic wrap on a cutting board; flip the pan over onto it and gently remove the parchment paper, then leave to cool .
In the meantime, take care of the ricotta. Sift it directly into a bowl , then add the thyme leaves and season with salt and pepper . Finally, also pour in the Grana Padano PDO and mix everything together.
When the omelette has cooled, fill it by spreading the ricotta over the entire surface and placing the spinach on top (which will have lost any excess liquid by now). At this point, using the plastic wrap, start rolling the omelette .
Make sure to wrap it tightly , trying to squeeze it enough to make it compact; close the ends like a candy, tightening the plastic wrap well so it retains its shape. Then place the ricotta and spinach omelette roll in the refrigerator to firm up and infuse for at least 1 hour. After the needed time, gently remove the plastic wrap from the roll, cut it into slices , and your stuffed omelette roll will be ready to serve!
You can store the ricotta and spinach omelette roll in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Enrich the ricotta cream with walnuts or pine nuts and replace the spinach with the seasonal vegetables you love most! An example? Grilled zucchini or slightly blanched radicchio!

