name:
Sardinian Zeppole
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Eggs: 5.1oz(145 g)- (about 3)
Saffron: ⅛tsp(0.6 g)- 1 sachet
Orange peel: 1
Lemon peel: 1
Brewer's yeast: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Peanut seed oil: 3.4cups(800 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 3 hours of dough rising

instructions:
To prepare Zippulas or Sardinian zeppole, start with the dough: grate the zest of the untreated orange and lemon and set it aside. In the bowl of a stand mixer (or in a glass bowl if mixing by hand), pour the sifted flour and add the dry yeast .
Then add the powdered saffron , the grated lemon and orange zest , and the slightly beaten eggs .
Turn on the stand mixer equipped with the paddle attachment and slowly pour in the milk . Work the dough at medium speed for about 5-6 minutes. The dough will be very hydrated and sticky . At this point, pour the dough into a bowl, using a dough scraper to detach it from the sides .
Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rise for about 3 hours or until the dough has doubled in size . The ideal place for rising is in the oven with just the light on. Once the rising time has elapsed, proceed with frying: heat the seed oil in a pan until it reaches 340°F (170°C); use a food thermometer to ensure optimal frying. To form the zeppole, proceed as follows: wet your hands with water
then take a small piece of dough and form a small doughnut with a very large hole , immerse it in the hot oil
and using the wooden handle of a ladle, rotate the doughnut so that it maintains its shape during cooking. When the zeppola is golden, remove it with a slotted spoon and place it on a tray lined with absorbent paper to dry the excess oil. Continue forming other zeppole until all the dough is used up. Finally, roll the zeppole in granulated sugar on both sides . Serve your Sardinian zeppole immediately!
One of the variations of this recipe is the addition of filu e' ferru, the typical Sardinian brandy. Just a tablespoon added to the dough along with the other liquids will give a special aroma and fragrance!
It is recommended to consume the zeppole as soon as they are made and to store them for a maximum of one day under a glass dome. Freezing is not recommended.

