name:
Lentil meatballs
ingredients:
Dried lentils: 1cup(200 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to grate)
Potatoes: 4.25oz(120 g)- (1 small)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 3
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Peanut seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 35 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the lentil meatballs, the first thing you need to do is boil the potatoes. Immerse them in a saucepan and cook for about 30 minutes from boiling until they are tender when pierced with the prongs of a fork. Meanwhile, rinse the lentils and transfer them to a pot .
Cover them with water and cook for about 30 minutes . When they are tender, drain them and let them cool down. Do the same for the potatoes.
Once warm, mash the potatoes in a bowl where you have transferred the lentils . Add the grated cheese , salt, pepper, and thyme leaves .
Finally, add the garlic clove, core removed and then crushed . Start mixing with your hands, or with a wooden spoon until you have a homogeneous mixture . The lentils should not be completely crushed. Now form balls of about 20 grams each .
You will get about 33 meatballs . Heat the seed oil and in the meantime prepare the breading. Coat the meatballs first in the beaten eggs , then in the breadcrumbs .
Do a double breading by passing the meatballs again in the eggs and then again in the breadcrumbs . When the oil has reached a temperature of 340°F, fry the meatballs by immersing a few pieces at a time , to avoid lowering the oil temperature too much.
When they are well golden, drain them , it will take a few minutes. Transfer the meatballs to a tray lined with absorbent paper to remove excess oil . Finish frying the meatballs and serve them hot .
It is recommended to consume the lentil meatballs immediately after frying. It is preferable not to freeze the meatballs either raw or cooked.
If you have little time, you can use 18 oz of pre-cooked lentils, as an alternative to dry lentils. You can also use hulled lentils: in this case, for cooking, we recommend following the instructions on the package.
We recommend a double breading, otherwise the meatballs may fall apart during cooking.
To have a gooey center in the meatballs, you can add a piece of cheese. Baking is not recommended because they fall apart.
Also try the Lentil Loaf with Mustard Glaze recipe!

