name:
Vegetarian cutlets
ingredients:
Black eyed peas: 0.7cup(125 g)
Potatoes: 5oz(140 g)- floury
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)- grated
Breadcrumbs: 0.1cup(15 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: 1pinch
Breadcrumbs: 0.67cup(80 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Peanut seed oil: 2 ¼cups(500 g)- for frying

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + 12 hours of soaking for the beans

instructions:
To prepare the vegetarian cutlets, start the night before by soaking the dry beans in cold water . After at least 12 hours, rinse the beans and transfer them to a pot with plenty of unsalted cold water and cook them over low heat for about 2 hours, removing the foam that forms on the surface when necessary .
In the meantime, bring a pot of cold water to a boil with the whole, well-washed potatoes and cook them for about 25-30 minutes from boiling point . In the end, when pierced with a fork, they should be soft. Drain them and let them cool enough to handle, then mash them with a potato masher and gather the resulting puree in a bowl (alternatively, you can peel them and pass them through a food mill or mash them with a fork). Return to the beans: when they are almost cooked, salt them. Finish cooking, drain them, and let them rest in a sieve to lose any excess water .
Once dry, transfer the beans to the mixer glass and blend into a smooth and fine paste . Transfer this pâté to a large bowl and add the mashed potatoes .
Also add the grated cheese , breadcrumbs and season with pepper and salt.
Mix carefully , it should be a compact, non-sticky dough. Now prepare the breading: set up a shallow, wide bowl with beaten eggs and a plate with breadcrumbs. Take a spoonful of the bean mixture equivalent to about 5 oz and flatten it in the palm of your hand until it forms a flat, slightly irregular cutlet shape .
In the next steps, you need to be careful and very delicate, because the vegetarian cutlet, unlike the meat one, risks breaking during breading and subsequent cooking. Dip the cutlet in the egg on both sides , then pass it in the breadcrumbs . Repeat the operation, dipping the already breaded cutlet a second time in the egg, and then again in the breadcrumbs : this double breading will make the cutlet more flavorful and help it maintain its shape better.
Once breading is completed, gently place the cutlet on a tray covered with parchment paper , and continue with the others. Heat the oil in a shallow, wide pan. Retrieve the cutlet with a spatula and when the oil reaches 340°F, immerse the cutlet to fry .
As soon as it is well golden, turn it to the other side using 2 spatulas . Brown this side as well, then drain the cutlet and let it dry on a paper towel to absorb the excess oil . Continue with the other vegetarian cutlets and serve them hot with a wedge of lemon as tradition dictates!
The vegetarian cutlets can be stored in the fridge, covered, for a maximum of 12 hours when breaded, before being fried. You can store the potato and bean mixture for 1 day maximum. Once cooked, it is recommended to consume them immediately. They can be frozen breaded, raw, for about 1 month.
Light cooking? In a preheated static oven at 400°F for about 20 minutes! And to give a personal touch, you can flavor the dough of your vegetarian cutlets with the herbs and spices you prefer: parsley, thyme, turmeric, curry... there is no limit to imagination!
If you follow a vegetarian diet that excludes cheese made with animal rennet in addition to meat and fish, you can substitute the ingredient with a similar cheese made with vegetable rennet.

