name:
Frati fritti
ingredients:
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Vegetable oil: 3.3tbsp(50 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)- warm
Lemon peel: 1
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(3 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Vegetable oil: 3cups(800 g)- for frying
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)- for the surface
Vegetable oil: to taste- to grease the hands and the work surface

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 6 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 3 h of dough rising

instructions:
To prepare the fried friars, start by sifting the flour into a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Add the sugar , yeast , and the grated zest of 1 untreated lemon .
Then turn on the stand mixer and slowly pour in the oil . Once absorbed, do the same with room temperature water . Once it is also incorporated into the dough, replace the paddle with the dough hook and continue to knead at medium speed: you need to work it for a total of 7-8 minutes, adding the pinch of salt after the first 5 minutes .
At the end, the dough should be well-coiled around the hook . Lightly grease the work surface and transfer the dough onto it , then knead it briefly to form a ball .
Place it in a large bowl and seal with plastic wrap . Let the dough rise in the oven with the light on for about 3 hours: after this time, its volume should have doubled . Heat the oil in a large pan. While it reaches 340°F, use a dough scraper to take about 3 oz of dough .
Grease the work surface and lightly oil your hands , to handle the dough more easily; on the work surface, stretch your portion of dough to form a log . Attach the ends of the log
And seal them to create a doughnut shape about 4 inches in diameter . As soon as you finish forming your friar, immerse it in hot oil at 340°F and fry for 3-4 minutes on each side .
When the friar is golden on both sides, drain it on paper towels and while still warm, roll it in a low, wide dish where you have placed granulated sugar , turning it to coat evenly. Continue this way until all the dough is used: you should get 9-10 friars. Enjoy your fried friars while they are hot : irresistible!
Fried friars are best enjoyed immediately, while still warm. However, they keep well for 2-3 hours. You can prepare the dough the night before, let it rise for 1 hour at room temperature, then transfer it to the fridge overnight. Before frying your friars, take the dough out 2 hours in advance to let it come back to room temperature.
Liquor, anise, orange zest: there are many fragrances to enrich your fried friars! Try them all and let us know which version captures your heart!

