name:
Pasta with pumpkin and breadcrumbs
ingredients:
Rigatoni: 11.3oz(320 g)
Pumpkin: 3 ½cups(400 g)- (already cleaned)
Shallot: 0.75oz(20 g)
Basil: 3leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Pumpkin seeds: 1tsp(15 g)
Breadcrumbs: ⅓cup(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the pasta with pumpkin and breadcrumbs, start by cleaning and finely chopping the shallot, which you will set aside . Then proceed to clean the pumpkin: remove the skin .
Cut it into slices and remove the strings and seeds inside . Then cut the slices further into evenly sized cubes to ensure even cooking . At this point, heat a pot with plenty of salted water that you will use to boil the pasta.
Take a non-stick pan with a wide bottom in which you will sauté the chopped shallot with 3.5 tablespoons of oil over low heat , stirring often to prevent it from burning: it will take about 5 minutes. Once it is golden, add the pumpkin and cook it over low heat, adding hot water (the pasta cooking water will do) if the pumpkin dries out too much during cooking. It will take about 15 minutes over moderate heat to get soft pumpkin cubes that do not fall apart . Finally, adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper.
When the water is boiling, add salt and cook the pasta ; in the meantime, proceed to toast the breadcrumbs. Take a non-stick pan with a wide bottom in which you will pour 2 teaspoons of oil. Heat it and add the breadcrumbs , stir and let it brown for a few moments, then also add the pumpkin seeds .
Sauté the ingredients for about 1-2 minutes to make them crispier. At this point, the pasta will be al dente: drain it directly into the pan with the pumpkin, saving some pasta cooking water. Toss it with the sauce over moderate heat, adding, if necessary, one or more ladles of reserved hot water to finish cooking. Mix the ingredients well and flavor with some basil leaves that have been washed and carefully rinsed . Simply tear them roughly with your hands.
Finally, add the toasted breadcrumbs with the pumpkin seeds and mix the ingredients again to blend the flavors . Now your pasta with pumpkin and breadcrumbs is ready to be served and enjoyed !
Pasta with pumpkin and breadcrumbs should be consumed as soon as it's ready. If there are leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days.
It is not recommended to freeze.
How to make this delicious dish unforgettable? Add some chopped rosemary to the sauté with the shallots, then blend half of the pumpkin sauce to make it even creamier!

