name:
Ricotta ravioli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 2- large
Egg yolks: 1
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste- for dusting
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1.6cups(400 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)- to grate
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the pasta (at least 30 min.)

instructions:
To prepare the ricotta ravioli, start by making the Homemade pasta (sheets and shapes) . In a large bowl, pour the flour (holding back about 40-50 g from the recommended amount) and the beaten eggs . Knead the ingredients vigorously by hand until you obtain a homogeneous mixture . Add the reserved flour as needed to achieve the right dough consistency: smooth and elastic. If the dough is too hard, you can add a little room-temperature water: this will make the pasta softer and easier to roll with the machine.
When the dough is smooth and elastic, transfer it to the work surface, shaping it into a sphere and wrap it in transparent plastic wrap. Let the dough rest for 30 minutes at room temperature, keeping it away from light and drafts to avoid drying out. While the dough rests, focus on the filling. Take a bowl in which you will pour the ricotta, seasoning with salt and pepper .
Add the thyme leaves, washed and dried, mixing them with the ricotta . Then add the Grana Padano and flavor with nutmeg , mixing the ingredients well with a fork .
The mixture is now ready : transfer it to a piping bag fitted with a large nozzle and set aside in the refrigerator. At this point, the fresh pasta will have rested: take it and divide it into two equal-sized pieces. Keep one covered with plastic wrap until it's time to roll it out, while you can dust the other slightly with semolina flour so that it doesn't get absorbed; pass the dough through the rollers of the pasta machine: roll it through the rollers from the widest setting to the second-to-last to obtain a sheet about 2-3 mm thick , which you will place on a lightly dusted surface with semolina flour. Take the piece you've wrapped in plastic: remove the wrap and repeat the operation, rolling it out next to the other sheet, taking care to dust the surface with a little semolina flour. Use the piping bag to create small mounds of filling, spacing them about 1 inch apart on one of the two rolled-out rectangles .
Sprinkle water on the edges of the dough or, if you prefer, brush the edges of the ravioli with a kitchen brush. This will help ensure that the two sheets stick together when you cover with the other pasta sheet; align the edges and apply slight pressure with your fingertips between the mounds of filling to remove air and prevent them from opening during cooking and the filling from spilling out.
With a fluted pastry wheel, begin to cut out the ravioli between the fillings : in this way, you will obtain 24 ravioli measuring 1.5x1.5 inches . Place them on a tray lightly dusted with semolina flour : your ricotta ravioli will be ready to be cooked and dressed for your delicious preparations!
You can store the ricotta ravioli in the freezer for up to 1 month. To freeze them, you can proceed as follows: place the tray with the ravioli in the freezer for a couple of hours or until they are hardened. Then place them in food-safe freezer bags. When you want to use them, remove the freezer bag from the freezer and cook them in plenty of salted boiling water while still frozen.
Personalize the filling with other herbs of your choice: finely chopped fresh parsley or dill will release a fantastic aroma!
Did you know there is also a Polish version of ricotta ravioli enriched with potatoes? Try the Pierogi !

