name:
Cappelletti
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Eggs: 7.8oz(220 g)- (about 4)
Pork: 5.25oz(150 g)- minced
Veal: 3.5oz(100 g)- minced
Chicken breast: 3.5oz(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- grated
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Yellow onions: 2oz(60 g)
Celery: 1.8oz(50 g)
Carrots: ½cup(60 g)
Red wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (one)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the cappelletti, start by preparing the Homemade pasta (sheets and shapes) . Pour the flour into a large bowl , lightly beat the eggs and add them to the flour , then start kneading with your hands ,
until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough which you will then wrap in plastic wrap and let rest at room temperature for half an hour. Meanwhile, prepare the filling. Mince celery, carrot, and onion and pour into a large pan along with the oil letting them stew for about ten minutes, stirring often.
Meanwhile, cut the chicken into cubes , then finely chop them with a knife and finally add to the initial sauté
along with the minced pork and veal . Stir using a wooden spoon and brown for 5-6 minutes then deglaze with the red wine .
As soon as the alcohol has evaporated, adjust with salt and pepper and cook for another 4-5 minutes . Pour the cooked meat into the mixer to obtain a finer mixture .
Transfer everything into a container along with the grated Parmesan and the lightly beaten egg , add nutmeg, salt, and ground black pepper and mix setting it aside.
Take the egg pasta again, remove the plastic wrap, and roll it out with the pasta machine , or with a rolling pin on a slightly floured work surface. If using the machine, you need to slightly flatten the dough, lightly flour it, and then place it between the two rollers . It's important to always start with the widest thickness and work your way to the narrowest, adding a pinch of flour on each side each time. During this operation, the pasta may tend to deform, so you will need to fold it by pulling one edge and then the other towards the center , finally pressing lightly in the middle
and start rolling the pasta between the rollers again . As you obtain thin sheets about 0.24 inches thick, cover them with plastic wrap so they don't dry out too much in the air . Then cut 2-inch pasta squares with a smooth wheel ,
which you will fill with a teaspoon of the mixture . Compact the filling, trying to position it well in the center, and fold the opposite ends, thus obtaining a triangle . Finally, join the two ends by pulling them towards you
Join them and flatten them down, pinching lightly with your fingers. Make sure they are well closed as they tend to open during cooking. At this point, repeat the operation for all the others until you have all your cappelletti ready to cook . As you prepare them, place them on a tray where you have placed a clean cloth lightly floured with semolina.
The cappelletti can be frozen if you have used fresh ingredients. To do this, place them on a tray, keeping them apart, and then put the tray in the freezer for 30 minutes. Once they are well frozen, put them in freezer bags, preferably already portioned, and store them again in the freezer. When you need to use them, boil them directly from frozen in boiling water and proceed as per the recipe.
If the dough becomes too dry during processing, you can brush the surface of the pasta disks with water. If you don't prefer one of the 3 types of minced meat, you can substitute it with the one you prefer most.

