name:
Roccocò
ingredients:
Almonds: 0.7cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Candied citron: 3.5oz(100 g)
Ratatouille: 0.1oz(2 g)
Orange peel: to taste
Water: 0.36cup(87 g)- at room temperature
Baking soda: 1pinch
Eggs: 1- for brushing
Almonds: ¼cup(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 11 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the Roccocò, start by toasting the almonds with their skin. To do this, simply arrange them on a baking tray and bake them in a preheated oven at 356°F for 5 minutes . Once toasted, remove them from the oven, let them cool for a few moments, then place 1.8 oz in a mixer and blend until you get a sufficiently sandy mixture; set the others aside .
Dice the candied citron and start working on the dough: in a bowl, combine the all-purpose flour with the sugar and the baking soda (if you want to follow the traditional recipe use baking ammonia instead of baking soda, in the same quantities) , then add the indicated spice mix (or per the traditional recipe, the pisto) .
and the chopped almonds . Grate the zest of ¼ of an orange and mix by pouring in water at room temperature gradually until you obtain a very compact and dry dough.
Add the diced citron along with 1.8 oz of whole almonds , mix these into the dough and then transfer everything onto a work surface . Continue kneading until you obtain a smooth dough ball .
Work the dough with your hands to form a roll from which you can cut 11 pieces weighing about 2.6 oz each, simply breaking off pieces by hand to preserve the integrity of the whole almonds. From the pieces, roll out logs about 8 inches long , then join the two ends to form a ring.
Pinch the two ends together to seal them, ensuring they keep their shape during baking . Transfer the rings onto a baking tray lined with parchment paper and brush the surface with slightly beaten egg . If you decide to add the optional 1 oz of almonds to decorate the surface, you can do so now, after brushing the rings.
Bake in a preheated oven at 356°F for 25 minutes, until they become lightly golden . Before serving your Roccocò, let them cool completely on a rack . At this point, your Roccocò will be ready to be enjoyed .
Roccocò can be stored in a tin box for 10 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can achieve harder Roccocò by baking them 5-10 minutes longer, possibly testing with a couple of rings in the first batch to better adjust the timing.
You can omit the candied citron if you don't prefer it.
If you can't find pisto, you can replace it with a powdered mix of cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, and black pepper.
It seems that Roccocò dates back to 1320 when the nuns of the Real Convent of the Magdalene began mixing these ingredients to create a simple sweet. The round shape, reminiscent of a baroque shell, takes the French name of rocaille , later Neapolitanized by the Neapolitans themselves into Roccocò! From December 8th onwards, it is customary to prepare these sweets until the end of the Christmas holidays. In the harder version of the cookie, the tradition of soaking the sweet, after breaking it by hand, in a small glass of limoncello, Marsala... or leftover sparkling wine from New Year's Eve arises!

