name:
Bavette with scampi and pomegranate
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 0.7lb(320 g)
Scampi: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Pomegranate: 3.5oz(100 g)- the seeds
Basil: 4leaves
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: 1.8oz(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the bavette with scampi and pomegranate, start by rinsing the basil and cutting it into thin strips . Proceed with the How to clean shrimp : remove the head and with scissors, cut the shell under the belly to facilitate the removal of the carapace.
After removing it, use kitchen tweezers to eliminate the intestine; if you don't have tweezers, you can lift it with a toothpick and then pull it out by hand , being very careful not to break it to avoid leaving any part attached to the crustacean. Now, cut the scampi into small pieces of equal size . At this point, boil the bavette in plenty of salted water .
While the pasta is cooking, take a non-stick pan and brown a clove of garlic in its skin with the oil . When it is browned, remove it. Now add the scampi pieces and cook them over high heat for about 2 minutes, stirring to prevent them from sticking to the bottom of the pan. Season with salt and pepper. Then, deglaze with white wine , letting it evaporate.
At this point, the pasta will be al dente: drain it directly into the pan with the fish and add 1 ladle of pasta cooking water to finish its cooking . When it is completely dry and absorbed by the pasta, also add 50 g of pomegranate seeds, keeping the other half to decorate the dish .
Season with basil and mix the ingredients well so the aromas blend . Finally, plate your bavette with scampi and pomegranate and enjoy while still hot, garnishing with the remaining 50 g of pomegranate seeds which will give a vibrant color to the dish !
The bavette with scampi and pomegranate should be consumed as soon as they're ready. If you have leftovers, you can place them in an airtight container and store them in the refrigerator for up to 1 day.
However, we do not recommend freezing.
Want to give an extra boost to this original dish? Try deglazing the shrimp with brandy instead of wine: it will acquire a very flavorful taste!
Want to give this pasta a more exotic flavor? Also add slices of ripe avocado: for sure, your guests have never tasted such an original dish!
Pomegranate is a fruit with a tangy taste and an interesting history. It is rich with symbolic meanings attributed to it by various religions and peoples. For example, pomegranate is one of the few fruits depicted on the coins of ancient Judea, and even earlier, its seeds were used in funerary rites in ancient Egypt, as the pomegranate was considered a sacred fruit. Its unmistakable symbolic value as a good luck charm, an ode to prosperity... continue the millennia-old story of this symbol by enjoying it as a wish for a happy new year!

