name:
Penne with five types of cabbage
ingredients:
Gluten-free Penne Rigate pasta: 0.7lb(320 g)
Broccoli: 8.8oz(250 g)
Brussels sprouts: 2cups(180 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: 1pinch
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 0.5lb(250 g)
Cauliflower: 1lb(450 g)
Shallot: 1.4oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Red cabbages: 3oz(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Lime juice: 1tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the pasta with 5 cabbages, first wash all the vegetables and remove the outer and wilted parts. Cut the stems off the black cabbage and place the leaves on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Bake them in a preheated fan oven at 250°F for 40 minutes: after this time, the leaves will be dried .
And you can coarsely chop them, place them in the mixer , activate the blades and reduce the black cabbage to powder . Meanwhile, while the black cabbage is in the oven, you can focus on other preparations. Start with the cauliflower cream: clean the shallot and slice it into rings .
Remove the stem and outer leaves of the cauliflower and cut the florets into large chunks . Sauté the shallot in a pot with the oil until golden: this rich sauté will make the cream more flavorful and with a slightly roasted aroma. Then add the cauliflower to the pot and cover with about 1 3/4 cups of water .
Season with salt and pepper and cook: it will take about 25 minutes . Blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth cream , and set aside. Now take care of the other 2 red cabbage creams: first, prepare the common base for both. Take the red cabbage (the whole amount needed for the two creams) and remove the hard white core .
Finely chop the rest and place it in a pot with a little boiling water ; boil until soft, then remove half and place it with a little cooking water in the mixer cup .
Season with extra virgin olive oil , salt , and blend into a purple red cabbage cream .
Set this first cream aside . Now squeeze the lime to extract the juice and add it to the mixer cup in which you have placed the remaining cabbage with a little cooking water and a pinch of salt.
As before, blend into a cream and set aside: as you'll notice, the red cabbage in contact with the acidity of the lime juice will react, turning a vibrant candy pink color . Now that the creams are ready, you can prepare the broccoli and Brussels sprouts stir-fry and the pasta. Separate the broccoli florets and cut the Brussels sprouts in half .
Briefly sauté the garlic in a large pan with a drizzle of oil and add the broccoli and Brussels sprouts . Sauté them, stirring often, and meanwhile, cook the pasta in a pot with plenty of salted boiling water .
Deglaze the vegetables in the pan with a ladle of pasta cooking water and cook them for a few minutes: they should be tender but still crunchy. Remove the garlic clove and salt to taste , drain the pasta al dente and transfer it directly to the pan .
Sauté it for a couple of minutes and season with pepper and, if necessary, with salt. It's time to plate! Place a large half-moon of cauliflower cream and two smaller ones of purple-blue and pink red cabbage cream on the bottom of each plate.
Distribute the pasta slightly off-center from the middle of the plate , at the apex of the cream rainbow. Sprinkle with plenty of black cabbage powder . Your pasta with 5 cabbages is ready to amaze!
You can store the 3 creams, covered in the fridge, for 1-2 days. The pasta and cabbage stir-fry can be kept covered in the fridge for 2 days. The dried black cabbage can be stored for up to 1 month in a cool, dry place, sealed in an airtight jar.
Prepare this colorful pasta with the children; we're sure they'll start to love vegetables!

