name:
Pumpkin and Chard Quiche
ingredients:
Flour: 1.6cups(200 g)- type 00
Butter: ¾cup(170 g)- cold
Water: 0.3cup(70 g)- cold
Salt: 1pinch
Thyme: 1sprig
Pumpkin: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Chard: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(100 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)- to grate
Olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)- extra virgin
Salt: to taste
Pepper: to taste
Rosemary: 1sprig
Garlic: 2cloves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pumpkin and chard quiche, start by making the Easy Shortcrust Pastry . In a stand mixer with a paddle attachment, add the flour , cold butter cut into pieces , and a pinch of salt .
Add the ice-cold water slowly while mixing . Let the mixer run for about 3 minutes, then add the previously rinsed and dried thyme leaves . You should obtain a smooth and lump-free dough .
Transfer it to a work surface, shape it into a ball , flatten it slightly, and cover it with plastic wrap: place the dough in the refrigerator to rest for at least 40 minutes. While the dough rests, proceed with preparing the filling: finely chop a sprig of rosemary that has been washed and dried , then peel the pumpkin .
Cut it into slices, then into cubes of the same size to allow for even cooking . Then, take a wide-bottomed non-stick pan and sauté a garlic clove with 1.5 tbsp of oil . When it turns golden, add the pumpkin .
Add the finely chopped rosemary to flavor , seasoning with salt and pepper. Now cover with a lid and let it cook for about 20 minutes on low heat . At the end of cooking, remove the garlic .
While the pumpkin softens, proceed with preparing the chard. Rinse it and cut it in half if the leaves are too long to cook well in the pan . Sauté a garlic clove with 1.5 tbsp of oil, and when it's golden, add the chard . Cover with a lid and let it wilt on very low heat for about 5-6 minutes . Then remove the garlic, season with salt and pepper.
Drain the chard of excess water to prevent the filling from becoming too liquid . Set aside the chard and softened pumpkin. Proceed with creating the accompanying mixture. In a large bowl, beat the eggs with a whisk , seasoning with salt and pepper. Pour in the cream gradually while continuing to whisk .
Then add the grated Grana Padano and mix it with the other ingredients. Set the preparation aside for now because at this point the shortcrust pastry will be ready: roll it out with a rolling pin on a lightly floured work surface , until it's about 1/16 inch thick. Butter and flour a 9.5-inch diameter baking pan, preferably with a perforated bottom for more even baking, and lay the rolled-out shortcrust pastry over it . You can wrap the rolled-out shortcrust pastry on the rolling pin and unroll it directly into the pan to make this step easier.
Press the shortcrust pastry well into the bottom and sides of the pan, then trim the excess pastry by cutting the edges with a knife . Evenly distribute the cooked and well-drained chard on the bottom , then also create a layer of pumpkin cubes .
Finally, pour the egg, cream, and cheese mixture into the pan, covering all the ingredients : bake your pumpkin and chard quiche in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 60 minutes (or in a convection oven at 300°F for 50 minutes) . After the baking time, remove the pan from the oven, let it rest a few minutes before serving and enjoying !
The pumpkin and chard quiche can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for up to 2 days.
If you have used only fresh and not thawed ingredients, you can also freeze the quiche once cooked.
You can also freeze the shortcrust pastry wrapped in plastic wrap for about 2-3 weeks.
Customize your shortcrust pastry with your favorite herbs, for example, by replacing rosemary with thyme in the shortcrust pastry. Instead of Grana Padano, you can flavor the cream with Pecorino and, if desired, add whole chunks of soft cheese.

