name:
Pumpkin Bread
ingredients:
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(4 g)
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Pumpkin: 2 ½cups(400 g)- raw, cleaned
Malt: 0.18oz(5 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Pumpkin seeds: 1.67tbsp(15 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Rosemary: 2sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes for cooking the pumpkin + the rising time for the bread

instructions:
To prepare the pumpkin bread, start by cleaning the pumpkin: remove the seeds and internal filaments and cut it into wedges, also removing the skin . Place a pot with water on the stove and scent it with rosemary . Place the pumpkin wedges in the steaming basket ,
cover with the lid . Cook the pumpkin: it will take about 30 minutes, and it should be soft yet firm – you can check the consistency with a fork. Mash the cooked pulp with a potato masher to obtain a puree.
In a stand mixer, sift the flour then add the pumpkin puree , yeast
and malt . Attach the dough hook and start the mixer on low speed, and add the water in a thin stream, it is important that it is at room temperature . Continue kneading, increasing the speed, for at least 10 minutes. When the dough comes together, you can add the salt : do not add it too early, as it would inhibit the dough's rising.
Let the salt absorb while continuing to knead for 2 minutes, then add the oil in a slow stream and let it absorb as well: it will take about 3 minutes. Transfer the dough to the work surface , stretch it slightly and proceed with the folds: fold the side flaps
And then the top and bottom flaps, as if making a bundle . Seal to form a ball and place it to rise inside a large bowl. Cover with plastic wrap
and let the dough rise for at least 3 hours in a warm place (for example, the oven turned off with the light on) until it doubles in volume . Lightly flour the work surface and place the risen dough on it . Repeat the 4 strength folds ,
form a well-sealed ball as before and place it on a baking tray lined with parchment paper. Let it rise for another hour then, with a sharp knife or cutter, make 8 cuts on the surface of the dough , to make it resemble a real pumpkin.
Spray some water on the surface of the bread to make it moist , and distribute pumpkin seeds within the slits you made . Now bake the bread in a preheated static oven at 392°F, with a tray of water placed on the bottom for the first twenty minutes: the water will create the necessary humidity inside the oven for proper rising. After the first 20 minutes, remove the tray of water, lower the temperature to 374°F, and bake the bread for another 35 minutes or so. Let your pumpkin bread cool before enjoying it!
Bread, as we know, is good fresh: if possible, consume it within the day. However, you can store it in a paper bag for about 3 days. You can also freeze the pumpkin bread, either whole or already cut into convenient slices, if you have used only fresh and not defrosted ingredients.
Big pumpkin or small pumpkins? With the dough, you can make a "family-sized" bread like ours, or divide it to get small rolls. A fun idea for making truly original burgers!

