name:
Beef burger with soy mayonnaise
ingredients:
Veal: 1.8lbs(800 g)- ground
Fontina cheese: 5.6oz(160 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 4
Lettuce: 8leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Hamburger muffins: 4
Egg yolks: 1tbsp(17 g)
Soy sauce: 0.1cup(25 g)
Vegetable oil: 2cups(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 4 pieces

instructions:
To prepare the beef burger with soy mayonnaise, start with the preparation of the latter: in a narrow and tall container, pour the egg yolk and add the soy sauce (we used low-sodium soy sauce). At this point, immerse the blender and turn it on, pouring the vegetable oil in a thin stream while the blender is working .
Blend the ingredients well until you get a homogeneous sauce . At this point, the soy mayonnaise will be ready: transfer it to a small bowl and place it in the refrigerator while you dedicate yourself to the rest of the preparation. Take the tomatoes, rinse and dry them, then slice them and set the slices aside.
Wash the lettuce as well and dry it thoroughly . Then, divide the leaves in half and also set them aside.
Remove the outer rind from the cheese and cut it into slices the same size as the hamburger buns. At this point, cut the hamburger buns in half and toast them for a few minutes in a large, non-stick pan . You should get a light crust on the part you toast in the pan. Set the bread aside.
Now proceed to the preparation of the burger: place the ground beef in a bowl, salt and pepper it. Season and massage the meat with your hands . Now place a sheet of parchment paper on a cutting board or work surface; use a 4.5-inch diameter pastry ring and place 7 oz of ground beef inside, pressing it with the back of a spoon .
Then remove the pastry ring: you should obtain a compact burger (if you don't have a pastry ring of the indicated size, you can create the burger simply by putting together 7 oz of meat, flattening it, and measuring the diameter with a ruler). Repeat the operation until you have used up the meat. Then cook them in a pan where you have slightly heated the oil: sear the meat for about 4 minutes on one side ; flip them to the other side and place a slice of fontina on each burger and cook for another 4 minutes: the cheese should melt.
Once the meat is ready, spread the mayonnaise on all the halves of the buns , then place a slice of lettuce and the tomato slices on four halves.
Complete the beef burgers with soy mayonnaise by placing the meat and another lettuce leaf . Close the burger with the respective bun halves. Your beef burgers with soy mayonnaise are now ready to be enjoyed !
The beef burgers with soy mayonnaise can be stored in the refrigerator, well closed in an airtight container for up to 1 day. The soy sauce mayonnaise can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container or in a small bowl sealed with plastic wrap for up to 1-2 days.
If you have used fresh meat, you can also prepare and freeze only the burgers, without cheese, for up to 1 month.
To give this burger a USA touch, you can replace the fontina with the ultimate cheese for hamburgers: cheddar!

