name:
Seared scallops with caramelized onion
ingredients:
Scallops: 4
Cluster tomatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Red onions: 10.5oz(300 g)
Honey: ¼cup(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Soy sauce: 1.7tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Tabasco®: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare the scallops with caramelized red onion and tomato concassé, start by washing and drying the latter. Then make a cross-cut at the bottom of the tomatoes, just below the stem . Just insert the blade a few millimeters. Blanch the tomatoes in boiling water for one minute , then drain them into ice water to stop the cooking process .
Shortly after, dry the tomatoes and peel them. The skin will come off easily, just pull it with a knife . Cut them into four parts and remove the interior, including filaments, pulp, and seeds, always using the knife .
Slice the tomatoes into strips and then into cubes and place them in a container with a colander to drain the vegetation water. Meanwhile, clean and slice a red onion .
Then sauté it in a pan with a little extra virgin olive oil . Season with salt and black pepper and add the honey . Once the honey is completely absorbed, you can turn off the heat and set it aside .
Move on to the scallops. Separate the roe, the colored part that you can blend with oil to flavor a risotto, from the white part . Gather the latter in a container, season with salt and black pepper . In a pan, heat a little extra virgin olive oil, then add the scallops and let them cook on high heat for 2 minutes .
then flip them and cook for another 2 minutes , deglazing with the low-salt soy sauce , and as soon as everything is caramelized, turn off the heat .
Chop the mint leaves , add them to the tomatoes, saving a handful for decoration, along with the Tabasco and mix carefully to combine the dressing .
Finally, move on to plating by placing a ring mold in the center, distribute some glazed onions , then the tomato concassé , and finally the scallops .
Remove the ring and drizzle with the tomato dressing , garnish with the reserved mint , and your dish of scallops with caramelized red onion and tomato concassé is ready to serve .
It is recommended to consume immediately and not to store the scallops.
You can enhance the aroma of the dish by grating citrus fruits of your choice, such as oranges, limes, or lemons. If you want to make it heartier, replace the concassé with caponata.

