name:
Soy-Glazed Tuna
ingredients:
Tuna: 0.9lb(400 g)- fillet
Red cabbage: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Soy sauce: ¼cup(50 g)
White wine vinegar: 0.4cup(100 g)
Fine salt: 5 ¼tsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Basil: 4leaves
Sesame seeds: 10tsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 1 hour of marination

instructions:
To prepare the soy-glazed tuna, start with the vegetables: julienne the cabbage and place it in a bowl, drizzling with white wine vinegar and seasoning with salt .
Mix the ingredients well and let them macerate for at least 1 hour, covering with clear plastic wrap . After this time, drain and rinse the cabbage thoroughly under plenty of running water . Then cook it in a non-stick pan where you have heated 1 tbsp of oil .
Flavor with some well-washed and dried basil leaves and cover with a lid , cooking over low heat for about 10 minutes. At the end of the cooking time, the cabbage should still be crunchy. While the cabbage cooks, focus on the tuna. Take a small bowl and pour the soy sauce .
Handle the tuna: make sure you have a pre-frozen filet; we recommend freezing the filet for at least 96 hours at 0°F and then thawing for preparation. Cut the tuna into slices about 1.5 inches thick . Then, place a small bowl containing the white sesame seeds next to the soy sauce. Take a slice of tuna and coat all sides with the soy sauce , then completely cover the long sides of the tuna slice with the sesame seeds . Repeat the process with all the tuna slices.
Now take a non-stick pan and pour in 1 tsp of oil: heat it and place the tuna slices on their long sides . Sear the tuna slices for about 2 minutes, then turn them over to cook the other side for an additional 2 minutes . For even cooking, you can also sear the sides of the tuna slices for 1 minute each .
Place a bed of cabbage on a serving plate and arrange the tuna slices on top of it, serving with the soy sauce . Your soy-glazed tuna is now ready to be served and enjoyed .
We recommend enjoying the soy-glazed tuna just after preparation. However, if there are leftovers, you can store the tuna in a tightly sealed airtight container for up to 1 day in the refrigerator. The cabbage can be stored similarly but for up to 2 days.
We do not recommend freezing the preparation.
Sesame has a mild flavor. If you are a fan of intense flavors, you can replace it with pistachio crumbs or any nuts of your choice, which will add pleasant, more aromatic notes to the preparation!
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not fully cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at 0°F in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, according to the Ministry of Health guidelines .

