name:
Mini panettones with candied mandarin and rosemary
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Brewer's yeast: 0.4tsp(2 g)
Water: 1.3tbsp(20 g)- at room temperature
Manitoba flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(60 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)- soft
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Egg yolks: 1tbsp(15 g)
Water: 0.3cup(70 g)- at room temperature
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)- soft
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Honey: 0.3tbsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Candied mandarin oranges: 0.3cup(65 g)
Rosemary: 1tsp(5 g)- (the needles)
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)- to melt

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the rising times for the biga (10-12 hours) and the dough (about 6 hours)

instructions:
To prepare the mini panettones with candied mandarin and rosemary, start with the starter: in a small bowl, pour the sifted flour and dried yeast , then add water at room temperature and start kneading by hand
When you have obtained a smooth dough, shape it into a ball and place it in the bowl, covered with plastic wrap . Let it rest at room temperature for about 30 minutes. Then transfer it to the refrigerator to mature for an entire night (from 10 to 12 hours). After the indicated time, you can start the first dough: take the starter and transfer it to the mixer .
Mount the hook and also pour the sifted flour , start the mixer and gradually add the water at room temperature , then the sugar
and let the dough hook, then pour in the egg yolk at room temperature . Once the dough is well hooked again, add the softened butter . When the butter is fully absorbed and the dough is hooked to the hook , you can transfer the dough to a work surface.
Work it with your hands for a few moments, then shape it into a round form and place it in a bowl; cover with plastic wrap and let rise for about 6 hours in an unlit oven with the light on (at a temperature of about 79°F). Meanwhile, prepare the candied rosemary: in a saucepan, pour the water and sugar ;
When the mixture is about to boil, add the rosemary needles and continue cooking for about 5 minutes, then drain the needles from the syrup using a fine mesh strainer . Set aside the candied rosemary needles and also prepare the candied mandarin: cut it into slices
then chop it into pieces and set aside as well. After 6 hours of rising, the dough will have doubled in volume . Pour the risen dough into the mixer with a hook ;
then add the sifted flour and start kneading at medium speed. Then pour in the sugar , the honey ,
and the egg yolk at room temperature ; let the mixer run until the ingredients are well absorbed and the dough is hooked, then add the salt , then the softened butter .
Finally, add the candied mandarins and the candied rosemary needles, keeping some aside for the final decoration . When they are incorporated into the dough, stop the mixer and transfer the dough to a work surface. Divide the total dough into 4 pieces of about 4.2 oz each .
Work on the surface by rotating each piece to obtain balls and place them in the respective paper molds for mini pandoros . Let rise for about 4 hours at room temperature; they will be ready when they have reached 3/4 of the mold .
Then with a cutter, make a cross incision on the top of each mini pandoro and fold the edges . Brush with the melted butter and fold the edges inward ,
brush the surface of the mini panettones again . Place them on a baking sheet, also add some rosemary needles set aside and bake them in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 30 minutes (we do not recommend using a convection oven). Once ready, take them out of the oven and let them cool slightly before serving your mini panettones with candied mandarin and rosemary!
You can store the mini panettones with candied mandarin and rosemary for a maximum of 3 days, well wrapped with plastic wrap.
You can freeze the raw dough already divided in the molds. You will then need to let them thaw at room temperature and let them rise again for at least 1 hour before baking.
You can also freeze the already cooked mini panettones, then thaw them and heat them in the oven before serving.
If the idea of accompanying your mini panettones with candied mandarin and rosemary with custard isn't tempting enough for you, you won't be able to resist adding the grated zest of citrus fruits: primarily mandarins, but orange or lemon zest will work just as well!

