name:
Amberjack carpaccio marinated in soy sauce
ingredients:
Amberjack fish: 1.25lbs(600 g)- (1 fillet)
Soy sauce: 0.6cup(150 g)- Tamari, gluten-free
Dill: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)
White wine vinegar: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Orange peel: ½
Pink peppercorn: to taste
Brown sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + 2 h for marinating

instructions:
To prepare the amberjack carpaccio marinated in soy sauce, the first thing you need to ensure is that you have a pre-frozen fillet; we recommend freezing the fillet for at least 96 hours at 0 degrees Fahrenheit and then thawing it for use in the recipe. At this point, take your fillet and remove the bones using tweezers , to locate them you can simply run your fingers over the fillet . Now proceed to slice the fillet, making diagonal cuts to obtain very thin slices .
Transfer the amberjack slices into a baking dish and add the gluten-free soy sauce , vinegar , and brown sugar .
Finely chop the dill and add it to the rest of the marinade . Ensure that the amberjack slices are completely covered by the liquids ,
then cover everything with food wrap and let it marinate for at least 2 hours in the fridge . Then drain the amberjack slices from the marinade and place them on a serving plate .
Finish the dish by adding freshly grated orange zest and pink peppercorns . All that's left is to serve your amberjack carpaccio in soy sauce .
The amberjack carpaccio marinated in soy sauce can be stored for 1-2 days in the refrigerator.
Freezing after preparation is not recommended.
Customize the marinade by replacing wine vinegar with cider vinegar and adding other spices to the marinade such as cardamom pods or fresh ginger.
Looking for more amberjack recipes? Try pasta with amberjack ragout and dried porcini mushrooms!
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at 0 degrees Fahrenheit in a home freezer marked with 3 or more stars, according to the Ministry of Health guidelines .

