name:
Passatelli in broth with soy sauce
ingredients:
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(120 g)
Lemon peel: ½
Eggs: 6oz(170 g)- (about 3)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 4.2oz(120 g)- grated
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Meat broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)- unsalted
Soy sauce: 3 ⅓tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 3 h 5 min
Serving: 4
Note + 5 minutes of dough resting

instructions:
To prepare passatelli with broth in soy sauce, start by making the Beef Broth which requires a long cooking process. In a pot, place the vegetables (celery, tomato, carrot, and onion slightly sautéed in a pan for even more flavor) and the beef . Then pour 3 liters (101 fl oz) of water to cover everything and let it boil for 1 hour , skimming the surface from time to time. Then add the last liter (34 fl oz) of water and boil for about 2 hours over medium heat. Once ready, you can strain the broth and put it back on low heat .
It is not necessary to salt the broth, because once ready you can add the soy sauce . Turn off the heat and set aside (if you used a good cut of meat to make the broth, you might enjoy it as a second course, perhaps seasoning it with Salsa Verde !) and focus on the passatelli dough: grate the lemon zest , being careful not to take the white part which is bitter and set it aside. Beat the eggs in a bowl and set aside.
In a larger container, pour the breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan cheese , also add the lemon zest , and grate the nutmeg
and finally the beaten eggs along with a pinch of salt . Mix the ingredients with a spatula , or by hand if you prefer, and work until you get an elastic and compact dough . If it turns out too dry, add a little broth, otherwise, if it's too soft, add a little more breadcrumbs.
Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest for 5 minutes in a cool place . Remove the wrap from the dough and place it on a lightly floured work surface, dust the surface with a little flour and then form the passatelli using the typical press. To make them, you will have to press and drag at the same time, so that the elongated dough will come out of the holes . Then cut them with a blade and slice them to 1.5 inches in length , placing them on a lightly floured tray.
Bring the meat broth to a boil and then add the passatelli (16-17). As soon as they float to the surface, they are cooked, so drain them with a slotted spoon
and place them in serving dishes (or in an earthenware bowl for a more characteristic presentation) , add the hot meat broth until they are covered and serve the passatelli in broth with soy sauce piping hot .
You can store the passatelli dough for up to one day, keeping it in the refrigerator well sealed with plastic wrap. You can also store them cooked, however, they will lose their consistency.
As an alternative to meat broth, you can flavor the passatelli with vegetable broth for a lighter taste.

