name:
Risotto with Apples, Spicy Pumpkin, and Sage
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Pumpkin: 2cups(500 g)
Fuji Apples: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Shallot: 2oz(60 g)
Sage: 2leaves
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Salted ricotta cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare the risotto with apples, spicy pumpkin, and sage, start by preparing the Vegetable broth . Then proceed with cleaning the pumpkin: cut it into quarters and remove the outer skin . Then cut it into slices to more easily reduce it to 1/2 inch cubes .
Then clean and finely chop the shallot . Heat a saucepan with a drizzle of oil and sauté the shallot for about 5-6 minutes, stirring continuously. You can deglaze with the vegetable broth to aid cooking .
Add the pumpkin and deglaze with a ladle of broth : it will take about 15 minutes on low heat, stirring occasionally. When the broth has been absorbed, add the rice and let it toast for about 1 minute.
Then add more vegetable broth as it gets absorbed to cook the rice : it will take about 20 minutes. While the rice is cooking, score a chili pepper and remove the seeds , then slice it thinly along with the washed sage .
Add the chopped mixture to the risotto that is cooking . Adjust the salt and pepper . At this point, take the apples: wash and dry them well, then cut them in half and then into slices, removing the central core . It is not necessary to remove the peel as it will add color to the preparation. However, you can remove it if you prefer.
Then cut the apple slices into roughly 3/4 inch cubes . When there are 5-6 minutes left before the risotto is done, add the apples and mix the ingredients well. Continue to add the remaining broth. At the end of cooking, turn off the heat and add the grated salted ricotta .
Mix it with the other ingredients : your risotto with apples, spicy pumpkin, and sage is now ready to be plated and enjoyed!
It is recommended to consume the risotto with apples, spicy pumpkin, and sage as soon as it's ready. However, if you have leftovers, you can store it in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you want to give a different touch and a more intense flavor to this risotto, you can choose pecorino instead of salted ricotta. If you are not fond of strong flavors, you can replace the salted ricotta with the more common Grana Padano.

