name:
Fettuccine alla modenese
ingredients:
Egg fettuccine pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Canned tomatoes: 0.8cup(200 g)
Peas: ½cup(100 g)- fresh shelled
Prosciutto crudo: 3.5oz(100 g)- a single slice
White onions: 2.1oz(60 g)
Red peppers: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
Black truffles: 1oz(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.1cup(40 g)- grated
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the pasta alla modenese, start by handling the truffle: clean it with a little brush and slice it with the appropriate tool , then set it aside in a small bowl. Cut the raw ham into strips about 1-1.5 inches long .
Next, handle the bell pepper: wash it, cut it in half, remove the internal filaments , and cut it into strips about 1/5 inch wide . Peel the onion and finely chop it with a knife .
Pour the oil and cubed butter into a saucepan , turn on the heat, add the onion , and let it soften over moderate heat for 5 minutes, then add the ham strips .
Let it flavor for a couple of minutes, add the chopped tomato pulp and the bell peppers . Season with salt, pour in the water , and let it cook for about 20 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Add the peas , the previously sliced truffle , and let it cook for another 5 minutes. In the meantime, throw the pasta into plenty of boiling, salted water to taste ;
Drain it well al dente and pour it directly into the saucepan with the sauce . Add the cream , a pinch of pepper
and mix everything to blend the ingredients. Garnish the dish with grated Parmesan , a few slices of truffle, and serve your fettuccine alla modenese .
It would be best to consume the fettuccine alla modenese right away; however, they can be stored for one day in the fridge in an airtight container.
In this version, we used both oil and butter; you could try the original version using only butter with a little oil and use sauce tomatoes in the summer.
If you use frozen peas, you can let them soak in a bowl of water and cook them as indicated.
Freezing is not recommended.

