name:
How to Desalt Cod
ingredients:
Codfish: 1.3lbs(600 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Serving: 4
Note the soaking time (about 72 hours) may vary depending on the size of the cod chosen

instructions:
To desalt the cod fillet , place it under a stream of cold water to remove the excess salt ; then cut it into pieces . If you prefer, you can also opt to keep the fish fillet whole: in this case, the desalting times will need to be extended.
Place the cod in a large bowl (if you prefer, laid on a colander) and cover it entirely with cold water : the water will help dissolve the salt and swell the fibers. This operation allows you to hydrate and soften the cod flesh that has dried out due to the preservation process. For this operation, we used a glass bowl, but if you prefer, you can use a plastic one or any material that is not attacked by salt. It would be preferable to leave the cod in the sink so that a trickle of running water can flow into the bowl continuously, ensuring continuous recycling. Cover the bowl with transparent food wrap and place it in the refrigerator in the less cold part or in any case in a cool place, away from sources of light and heat. After 8 hours of soaking, remove the wrap .
Rinse the cod again under cold water and place it again in the clean bowl with fresh water . Cover with transparent food wrap and always keep it in a cool place away from sources of light and heat or in the refrigerator in the less cold part. Repeat the operation every 8 hours (or at least 3 times a day) for 3 days. The indications on the time needed to soak the cod to desalt it can vary depending on the size and thickness of the fillets. If the piece of cod exceeds 2 lbs or if inquiring at your trusted fish market you know that the cod has been under salt for a long time, you can soak it for 3-4 days by changing the water more often. After the soaking time, drain your cod, which will now be desalted and ready to be used in your preparations!
You can freeze the desalted cod.
There is no empirical method to desalt cod; there are various methods and timings for changing the water, such as whether or not to remove the skin after the first 24 hours of soaking.
It is advisable, in any case, not to leave the cod in water for too many days to avoid overly softening the flesh.

