name:
Whole wheat spaghetti with avocado cream and crispy chickpeas
ingredients:
Whole wheat Spaghettini pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Avocado: 2cups(460 g)
Lime juice: 2tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Chives: 3tbsp(8 g)
Precooked chickpeas: 1cup(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼tbsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tsp(10 g)
Red pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Note + the cooking time of the spaghetti

instructions:
To prepare the whole wheat spaghetti with avocado cream and crispy chickpeas, start by drying the chickpeas well with paper towels . Then place them in a bowl and add the flour . Mix well to coat the chickpeas evenly, then place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper
and bake them at 340°F for 20 minutes, until golden and crispy . Then place them in a fine mesh strainer and shake to remove excess flour from the chickpeas . Transfer them to a small bowl and season them with oil
salt , ground pink pepper , and lime zest . Mix and keep warm.
Meanwhile, boil the pasta in a pot of plenty of salted water brought to a boil . While the pasta cooks, prepare the avocado cream: cut the fruit in half lengthwise and remove the pit. Scoop out the avocado flesh with a spoon and collect it in a bowl.
Season with oil and salt . Cut the lime in half
and squeeze it to extract the juice . Pour the juice into the bowl with the avocado and finally blend into a fine cream with an immersion blender .
Lastly, add the chives, cut into rings with kitchen scissors, to the cream . Drain the pasta, which will now be ready and al dente , and place it in a large bowl. Add a drizzle of oil if necessary and add the avocado cream ,
mixing immediately to prevent the pasta from sticking . Plate the spaghetti and top each dish with the crispy chickpeas . Your whole wheat spaghetti with avocado cream and crispy chickpeas are ready to be enjoyed !
The whole wheat spaghetti with avocado cream and crispy chickpeas should be consumed immediately. You can store the crispy chickpeas in the fridge covered for 2-3 days, reheating them in the oven before enjoying.
If you want a more intense avocado cream flavor, add a clove of crushed garlic just before blending!

