name:
Duck burger with citrus mayonnaise
ingredients:
Duck breast: 1lb(450 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 7oz(200 g)- spicy
Piccadilly tomatoes: 1 ⅛cup(200 g)
Mixed salad: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: 1pinch
Hamburger muffins: 4
Red onions: 6oz(170 g)
Brown sugar: ⅛cup(30 g)
Water: ¾cup(170 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Apple cider vinegar: 0.3tbsp(5 g)
Mandarin orange juice: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 0.7cup(150 g)
Orange peel: 1- grated
Tabasco®: to taste
Potatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste- for frying

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the duck burgers with citrus mayonnaise, start by removing the skin and visible fat from the duck breast . Then cut the meat into strips and then into cubes to make it easier to chop with a knife .
From the minced meat obtained, make 4 burgers of equal size , place them in a baking dish, cover with plastic wrap, and transfer to the fridge to firm up for at least half an hour . In the meantime, focus on the onions: slice them thinly and place them in a large pan where you've heated a little oil .
Add the brown sugar and water and cook the onions for about 10 minutes, stirring often: they will be ready when they are well wilted and the water has completely evaporated . Now, prepare the citrus mayonnaise: place the egg yolks with a pinch of salt and pepper in the mixer bowl ,
squeeze the tangerine and add its (strained) juice to the bowl . Also add the apple cider vinegar
and, while starting to blend, slowly add the sunflower oil . Finish your mayonnaise with the grated orange zest and a few drops of Tabasco .
Prepare the chips: wash and dry the potatoes, and slice them into 1/25 inch rounds using a mandoline . Fry the chips in abundant oil preheated to 338°F (you can use a kitchen thermometer to measure the exact temperature) , drain them, lightly salt them, and let them dry on a sheet of paper towel .
Take your burgers out of the fridge, brush them with a tiny bit of oil , and place them on the hot grill . After 2 minutes, turn them to the other side, season with salt and pepper , and grill for another 2 minutes (the meat should remain pink inside).
Cut the spicy blue cheese into slices , and distribute it over the burgers, which you place on a baking sheet : put everything in a preheated oven at 482°F with the grill function for 3 minutes. Cut the buns in half and also grill them for 1-2 minutes with the cut sides up. Then spread mayonnaise on the bottom half
and continue assembling the buns by adding the caramelized onions . Slice the tomatoes and place them on top of the onions .
Complete with the burgers with blue cheese , a bit of mixed greens, and close the buns . Serve them hot, accompanied by the chips .
The duck burgers with citrus mayonnaise and chips should be consumed immediately after preparation. The raw burgers can be stored in the fridge for up to 1 day, or they can be frozen for up to 1 month. The citrus mayonnaise can be stored covered in the fridge for 1-2 days.
If you prefer the taste of raw onions, we recommend slicing them thinly and soaking them in water and vinegar for at least an hour before use to make them more digestible! If you can't find apple cider vinegar, you can use a good apple vinegar instead.

