name:
Pasta with Fish Meatballs
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Butter: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Brandy: 1.75oz(50 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Shrimps: 4.25oz(120 g)- whole
Plaice filets: 3oz(80 g)
Cod fillet: 2.8oz(80 g)
Bread: ¾cup(80 g)- only the crumb
Eggs: 1- medium
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to be grated)
Saffron: 0.03tsp(0.15 g)- (one sachet)
Extra virgin olive oil: ½tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the pasta with fish meatballs, start by cleaning the shrimp (for more details on how to clean them, you can refer to our cooking school: How to clean shrimp ) and rinse them under plenty of running water. Now detach the head from the tail by holding it between your fingertips and gently pulling it off . Also, remove the legs, then discard the shell and tail. Once this operation is complete, use a knife to cut along the back of the shrimp tail and remove the intestine, being careful not to break it : set the shrimp aside. Proceed by removing the crust from the bread and cutting the crumb into cubes .
Bring hot water to a boil in a large pot and when it reaches a boil, salt to taste: this will be used for cooking the pasta. Then beat the egg in a small bowl and take a mixer in which you will put the bread crumbs and the peeled garlic, from which you have also removed the inner germ .
Add the cleaned shrimp tails , the cod fillet , and the plaice to the mixer. You can coarsely chop the fish or add them whole: working them with the mixer will blend the tender flesh evenly.
Then pour in the oil , the beaten egg , and the grated Grana Padano DOP . Finally, season with salt and pepper.
Blend the ingredients until you obtain a homogeneous mixture . Stop the mixer blades and transfer it to a large bowl. Then dissolve the saffron in a small bowl with a little hot water (the water ready for cooking the pasta will work perfectly) : add it to the obtained mixture .
Mix the ingredients well by vigorously stirring them with your hands . When they are well combined, take about 0.21 oz of mixture and create small meatballs : you will obtain a total of 105, which you can arrange on a tray .
At this point, take a non-stick pan with a wide bottom and pour in oil and butter : when the butter is melted and the oil is hot, brown a clove of garlic . Once golden, remove it. Now add the meatballs : brown them for 4-5 minutes on high heat, making sure they do not stick to the bottom of the pan.
Deglaze with brandy and let it evaporate. Then add the fresh liquid cream , seasoning with salt and pepper. Let it cook this way for about 10 minutes on medium heat. In the meantime, boil the spaghetti ,
when they are al dente, drain them directly into the pan with the meatball sauce : mix the pasta well with the sauce , it will only take a few moments. Then turn off the heat and plate your pasta with fish meatballs to be enjoyed very hot !
It is preferable to consume the pasta with fish meatballs as soon as it is ready. If there are leftovers, however, you can store them in the refrigerator: place them in an airtight container. They will keep this way for no more than 1 day.
We do not recommend freezing the pasta. If you used fresh, non-defrosted ingredients, you can freeze the fish meatballs for up to 1 month once cooked.
Do you want to flavor the fish meatballs? Try adding aromatic herbs like thyme or parsley! And for those who can't give up on tomatoes, we suggest replacing the cream with tomato sauce: you'll get delicious pasta with fish meatballs in sauce!

