name:
Pasta with pesto and shrimp
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Shrimps: 0.9lb(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Brandy: 1.75oz(50 g)
Coarse salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 7tbsp(100 g)
Basil: 2oz(50 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- grated
Pine nuts: 1tbsp(15 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.8cup(70 g)- grated

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pasta with pesto and shrimp, start by preparing the pesto (for the complete procedure you can check our Genoese pesto (Pesto alla genovese) recipe): carefully clean the basil leaves with a clean cloth (if you are not sure of the origin of the basil, you can gently dip the leaves in a bowl filled with cold water to rinse them. Then let them dry completely on a clean cloth. Then take a mortar and crush the peeled garlic with some coarse salt: when you have obtained a creamy mixture, add the basil leaves along with more coarse salt . With the pestle, crush the basil by rotating the pestle and mortar in opposite directions : a bright green liquid should come out of the leaves. Add pine nuts and cheese while continuing to crush. Finally, add the olive oil in a thin stream , continuing to mix the ingredients well with the pestle until you obtain a homogeneous sauce. Set the pesto aside.
Then bring the pasta water to a boil and when it reaches boiling point, salt it. In the meantime, focus on cleaning the shrimp (for more detail, you can check our cooking school article on How to clean shrimp ). Take the shrimp and rinse them quickly under plenty of cold water. Then gently detach the head , and remove the legs and shell, along with the tail. Proceed by cutting along the back and using a small knife, remove the intestine , being very careful not to break it. At this point, the shrimp are ready: cut them into small pieces and set them aside.
Now take a large non-stick pan, pour in the olive oil and let a whole clove of garlic brown which you can easily remove once golden . Add the shrimp to the pan .
Deglaze with brandy and let it evaporate , seasoning with salt and pepper. Cook the pasta .
and when the pasta is still slightly al dente, drain it (keeping aside at least 2-3 ladles of cooking water) and add it directly to the pan with the shrimp ; add a ladle of pasta cooking water to finish cooking and prevent it from drying out too much: let it cook, stirring for a few moments until completely absorbed. When ready, turn off the heat and add the pesto ,
add a little more pasta cooking water if needed and mix the ingredients well . At this point, your pasta with pesto and shrimp is ready to be plated and served!
We suggest consuming the pasta with pesto and shrimp as soon as it's ready. If you have leftovers, you can transfer them to an airtight container and store in the refrigerator for up to 1 day. However, you can store only the pesto in the refrigerator for about 2-3 days, also in an airtight container, covering the sauce with a layer of oil.
We do not recommend freezing the prepared pasta. However, if you wish and have used fresh, not defrosted ingredients, you can divide the pesto into small pre-portioned jars and freeze it for up to 1 month. To use it, just defrost it in the refrigerator or at room temperature.
Now we want to reveal some variants to cater to your guests' tastes: if they prefer milder flavors, you might opt for a delicate zucchini pesto or an original Pasta with Pistachio Pesto and Shrimp instead of the classic genovese pesto or, on the contrary, if your guests are lovers of strong flavors, you might sauté the garlic along with some hot chili pepper to flavor the shrimp!

