name:
Vegetarian Danube
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 4 ½cups(550 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(230 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: 1.7tsp(10 g)
Eggs: 2.3oz(65 g)- (approximately 1)
Brewer's yeast: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Spinach: 1 ¾cup(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tsp(5 g)
Ricotta cheese: ¼cup(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 1.8oz(50 g)
Salted ricotta cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 1 ⅛cup(80 g)
Caciotta romana cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 27 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the time for double rising

instructions:
To prepare the vegetarian danube, start with the dough. In a bowl, pour the flour (use Manitoba or all-purpose flour) along with the sugar and dried yeast . While kneading, slowly add the lukewarm milk and then the egg .
Add the oil and finally the salt and continue to mix the ingredients until they are compacted .
At this point, transfer the dough to a work surface and knead it by hand : stretch the dough and then roll it back up and continue like this for about ten minutes , this way you will incorporate air and warm the dough. Finally, form a sphere and place it in a container, covering it with plastic wrap, and let it rise for 3-4 hours in the oven with the light on .
In the meantime, prepare the fillings. In a pan, pour some oil along with the garlic and when it's hot, add the spinach , cover with a lid , and cook over high heat for a few minutes, just enough to wilt the leaves. When the spinach is softened, adjust with salt, remove the garlic
and then let them cool and drain any excess liquid by placing them in a container with a sieve . Next, pour the ricotta into the bowl of an immersion mixer , add the spinach, and blend
until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream that you can transfer to a container and set aside . Move on to the mushrooms, after rinsing them quickly under water, remove the lower part and slice them before chopping them into cubes .
Place the cubes in a pan with some oil, and let them cook for a few minutes, seasoning with salt and pepper ; once cooked, let them cool by keeping them in a container . Cut the cheese and sundried tomatoes preserved in oil into small cubes
and grate the salted ricotta and take the danube dough, which should now be well risen and doubled in volume .
Divide the dough into 27 small spheres , flatten them with your fingers or a rolling pin, and start adding the 3 fillings in the center, alternating them. So, in the center of a disc, add a bit of the spinach blended with ricotta and close by pinching the edges with your fingers, ensuring there are no open spaces from which the filling might leak
and finally round them until forming a ball . Repeat the same process with the other ingredients, with mushrooms and cubed cheese and then with sundried tomatoes and grated ricotta
Line a round baking tray with parchment paper with a diameter of 12.6 inches and place the filled balls one by one , alternating the various flavors. It is important that the closure of the sphere faces downwards, this way the balls will not open during baking. Cover the danube with plastic wrap and let it rise at room temperature for about an hour . When it is puffed up again, crack an egg and beat it lightly with a fork .
Then use it to brush the surface of each ball . You just need to bake it at 356°F for 30-35 minutes in static mode (320°F for 25-30 minutes if using a fan oven) , when the vegetarian danube is nicely golden, you can serve it while still warm !
You can store the cooked vegetarian danube under a glass dome or in a food bag for 1-2 days. You can freeze the raw vegetarian danube before the second rising and thaw it in the refrigerator to bring it back to room temperature before baking it.
You can use other fillings as you like, such as smoked scamorza cheese, caciocavallo cheese, or different types of mushrooms like chanterelles and pioppini. Sesame and poppy seeds can add more aroma and create a pleasant contrast of colors between black and white. Each flour has a slightly different absorption capacity, so if you find that the dough is too hard, soften it by adding a bit of milk, try adding 10 grams at a time.
If you follow a vegetarian diet that excludes cheeses made with animal rennet, you can replace the ingredient with a similar cheese made with vegetable rennet.

