name:
Spaghetti with ricotta and spinach
ingredients:
Whole wheat Spaghetti pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Spinach: 13.3cups(400 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- grated
Nutmeg: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare spaghetti with ricotta and spinach, start by putting water on the stove to boil the pasta, and when it comes to a boil, salt it to taste. Then begin by thoroughly washing the spinach, pat them dry with kitchen paper. In a large pan, pour the extra virgin olive oil and the whole peeled garlic clove . Let the garlic brown, then add the spinach and cover with a lid ; a few minutes of cooking will suffice.
This will result in soft spinach but not mushy. Then remove the garlic clove and transfer the spinach to the tall glass of an immersion blender , then blend them . You should obtain a puree.
Transfer the puree to a large high-sided pan and add the ricotta, keeping the heat very low , mix with a spatula to combine the ingredients .
Add pasta cooking water if necessary to make the dressing creamier, then cook for about 5 minutes over low heat and after the necessary time, add the grated cheese and mix . Then flavor with nutmeg , salt, and pepper to taste.
In the meantime, cook the whole wheat spaghetti and when they are al dente, transfer them to the pan with ricotta and spinach , then add a ladle of spaghetti cooking water to prevent the pasta starch from drying out the dressing too much .
Mix to flavor and combine the ingredients (16-17) and serve the spaghetti with ricotta and spinach as soon as they are ready !
Store the spaghetti with ricotta and spinach in the fridge for up to 1 day.
Freezing is not recommended.
To make this first course even more delicious, how about a sprinkle of crispy diced bacon?
If you love ricotta and spinach pairing, don't miss the recipe for Piacenza Tortelli !

