name:
Hare Ragù
ingredients:
Hare: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (ground)
Tomato purée: 3 ⅛cups(750 g)
Water: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Celery: 1cup(100 g)
Carrots: ¾cup(100 g)
Onions: 0.4cup(100 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Bay leaves: 3leaves
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: 1pinch- black
Red wine: 0.375cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 4 h 15 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the hare ragù, start with the sauté, washing and drying the vegetables and aromatic herbs. Peel the carrot and trim it, remove the outer strings of the celery, and clean the garlic and onion. Then finely chop the celery, carrots, and onion . Next, take a pot with a non-stick and thick bottom, pour in the oil and heat it slightly, then add the chopped onion and celery ,
also add the carrot and the peeled garlic from which you have removed the core . You can add it cut in half so that it is easier to remove later. Sauté the ingredients over very low heat for about 6-7 minutes, stirring occasionally. When the sauté is ready, also add the hare meat .
Stir and let the meat absorb the flavors, browning it for 4-5 minutes over low heat . Then, season with finely chopped rosemary sprigs and bay leaves .
Deglaze with red wine and let it cook over high heat for 5-6 minutes, until the wine has evaporated, stirring occasionally . Then, adjust the salt .
Also adjust the pepper , then pour in the tomato purée and water. Make sure to mix the other ingredients well .
At this point, cover the ragù with the lid and let it cook over very low heat for about 4 hours, stirring rarely: just a few times to check that it does not stick to the bottom. At the end of cooking, the ragù should be rather dense and full-bodied ; as a last step, remove the garlic. Your hare ragù will be ready to be used in your dishes !
The hare ragù can be stored for up to 2-3 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container.
It can also be frozen if you have used fresh and not defrosted ingredients. If you prefer, you can freeze it already portioned so that you can defrost it according to... how many guests you will have!
The secret to a succulent hare ragù is very slow cooking. You can therefore prepare it calmly the day before, letting it rest and cool and then storing it in the refrigerator: the next day you will have hare ragù ready for your preparations!

