name:
Lasagna with Mackerel Ragù and Mushrooms
ingredients:
Green Lasagna: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Mackerel: 2lbs(900 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Chanterelle mushrooms (chanterelle): 8cups(600 g)
Leeks: 1.7cups(150 g)
Celery: ½cup(50 g)
Carrots: 1.75oz(50 g)
White onions: 1.8oz(50 g)
Ground black pepper: 6
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Extra virgin olive oil: 4 ½tbsp(60 g)
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6 ¾tbsp(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the lasagna with mackerel ragù and mushrooms, start by cleaning the fish. Take the gutted mackerel, rinse it under water and remove the tail , side fins located near the fish's head , and dorsal fins . Then turn the fish over and also remove the other side fins.
Now make a clean cut at the head . Incise the dorsal part of the mackerel and, starting from the tail, slide the blade horizontally to the work surface to detach the first fillet . Turn the fish over and perform the same operation on the other side: thus you will get the second fillet.
Now take the kitchen tweezers and remove the fish bones . Proceed by removing the skin from each fillet: slide the blade horizontally along the skin of the fish and its flesh, proceeding gently to separate them . Place the fish scraps in a bowl and set them aside, place the mackerel fillets in another bowl covered with plastic wrap and keep them in the refrigerator for now. At this point, focus on the broth, washing, and drying vegetables and aromatic herbs. Then roughly chop celery, carrots, and onion .
Sauté them for 1-2 minutes with a drizzle of oil in a large, high-sided saucepan. Then add the fish scraps . Sear the ingredients for 1 minute and deglaze with wine . When it has completely evaporated, pour in the water and let it cook over moderate heat for 20 minutes.
Finally, add the peppercorns and bay leaf : allow to cook for another 5-10 minutes for the broth to become aromatic. Once cooked, turn off the heat, strain it and set the broth aside in a bowl .
Proceed with the preparation of the béchamel: in a high-sided, non-stick pot, heat the oil and sprinkle in the flour , stirring the ingredients vigorously with a hand whisk. When you have created the roux, add the fish broth , continuing to stir to prevent lumps from forming. Let it cook over moderate heat until it almost reaches a boil to allow the béchamel to thicken . When it has reached the right consistency, turn off the heat, pour it into a bowl applying plastic wrap in contact to prevent the formation of a crust on the surface, and transfer it to the refrigerator to cool.
Now prepare the lasagna filling: cut the mackerel into not too large chunks , the chanterelles into thin slices , and the leek into thin rounds .
Heat the oil in a non-stick pan and sauté a clove of garlic . When it has turned golden, remove it and add the leek, stirring it occasionally to ensure it wilts evenly. Then pour in the chanterelles , seasoning with salt and pepper. Let it cook over moderate heat for 6 minutes and, once ready, set them aside .
Then take another non-stick pan and sauté a clove of garlic with a drizzle of oil : remove it when it is golden. Then add the mackerel chunks to the pan , cooking over moderate heat. Season with salt and pepper, finally deglaze with white wine .
When the wine has evaporated, turn off the heat : it will take about 2 minutes of cooking. Now you have all the ingredients ready and can begin assembling the lasagna. Pour a thin layer of béchamel into a 8x12 inch pan and drizzle with some oil . Place the green lasagna sheets over the béchamel, completely covering the surface of the pan .
Then create a new layer of béchamel and distribute the chanterelles evenly over the surface . Add the mackerel chunks also evenly . At this point, take some more lasagna sheets and place them in the pan in the opposite direction to the first layer to ideally form a woven pattern .
Drizzle a little oil, a light layer of béchamel and again chanterelles and mackerel: proceed in this way until the layers are finished. Conclude with a layer of lasagna and béchamel, on which to lay the mushroom and fish seasoning . Then bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 20 minutes (if you have a fan oven, opt for 355°F for 10-12 minutes) . After the cooking time, remove the pan from the oven and let it sit for a few minutes at room temperature before serving your lasagna with mackerel and mushroom ragù !
It is preferable to consume this lasagna with mackerel and mushroom ragù as soon as it is ready. If necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator: cover it with plastic wrap or store it in an airtight container for up to 1-2 days. These lasagnas can also be prepared the day before if you use fresh and not defrosted fish: once ready, store them in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap and cook them the next day before serving.
You can also freeze them, only if you have used fresh ingredients, preferably raw: if necessary, you can thaw them in the refrigerator the day before and then cook them in the oven before consuming.
A delicious variation of this fish lasagna? Replace the chanterelles with porcini mushrooms!
For correct selection, treatment, and storage of mushrooms, please refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

