name:
Savoy cabbage timbale with taleggio fondue
ingredients:
Spaghetti Quadrati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Verza (savoy cabbage): 1.5lbs(700 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: 1pinch
Shallot: 1.75oz(50 g)
Smoked pancetta: 2.8oz(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ¾tbsp(50 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)- grated
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Taleggio cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Whole milk: 0.4cup(100 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Nutmeg: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 10 minutes of resting the unmolded timbale

instructions:
To prepare the Savoy cabbage timbale with taleggio fondue, start by washing and drying the vegetables. Peel the cabbage and set aside the tougher outer leaves (about 3.5 oz). Cut the hard base of the stem and divide it in half .
Using a small but sharp knife, make a triangular cut to remove the inner hard part of the stem . Then, cut the vegetable into julienne strips: you will get about 11 oz . Take the outer leaves you set aside and cut the tough inner part that you can remove .
In a high-sided pan, bring plenty of salted water to a boil and blanch the leaves for a few seconds . Transfer them to a container with water and ice cubes : this way, the leaves will remain a bright color. Dry them with a clean kitchen towel and set aside.
Take a bundt mold measuring 7 inches at the base, 9 inches at the opening, 3.5 inches in height, and oil it: make sure to brush oil over the entire surface . Take the cabbage leaves and then line the mold with the slightly overlapping cabbage leaves until fully covered : set the mold aside.
Now move on to the pasta seasoning: finely chop the shallot and cut the bacon into cubes . Take a non-stick pan and pour in the oil, heat it, and let the shallot soften over low heat , stirring occasionally to prevent it from sticking to the bottom.
When it is softened, add the bacon and cook for 1 minute on low heat. Then add the cabbage and cook for 5-6 minutes, seasoning with salt and pepper. Stir the ingredients for even cooking . At this point, bring salted water to a boil in a large high-sided pot and cook the pasta .
When it's al dente, drain it directly into the pan with the seasoning , sprinkle with grated Grana Padano and mix all the ingredients well, cooking for another 2 minutes. Then transfer to the mold .
Level the pasta in the mold and bake in a preheated convection oven at 392°F for 10 minutes (if using a static oven at 428°F for 20 minutes) . While the timbale is in the oven, prepare the taleggio fondue by cutting the cheese into cubes . Heat the milk in a saucepan without bringing it to a boil.
Add nutmeg and melt the butter over low heat in another saucepan. Now pour the flour in a thin stream while mixing the ingredients with a hand whisk: you should obtain a fairly thick and golden roux .
At this point, add the now hot milk and thicken over low heat. While adding the cheese , continue to stir with the whisk to obtain a smooth cream. Finally, season with salt and pepper. At this point, the timbale will be ready: take it out of the oven and let it cool slightly, then unmold it by gently turning it over onto a serving plate .
Once unmolded , transfer the taleggio fondue to a kitchen squeeze bottle and pour it over your preparation . The Savoy cabbage timbale with taleggio fondue is now ready to be enjoyed !
It is possible to store the Savoy cabbage timbale with cheese fondue in the refrigerator, covered with transparent plastic wrap, for a maximum of 1-2 days.
It can also be frozen before the baking step.
Do you want to give this delicious timbale an extra kick? Add diced cooked ham to the seasoning: irresistible!

