name:
Seitan ragout
ingredients:
Seitan: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- fresh organic
Carrots: 1.75oz(50 g)
Celery: ½cup(60 g)
Red onions: 2.1oz(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Tomato purée: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Dry white wine: 0.67cup(150 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Tomato paste: 2tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the seitan ragout, start by making the classic vegetable sauté. Peel the onion, carrot, and celery and cut them into large pieces . Place everything in the mixer and turn on the blades until you get a very fine mince .
Heat the oil in a large pot and add the minced vegetables . Let them brown over low heat for at least 15 minutes, until the sauté is dry. Meanwhile, focus on the seitan. Insert it a little at a time into a meat grinder to obtain a mince . If you don't have a meat grinder, you can chop the seitan with a knife.
Add the minced seitan to the sauté and let it brown for a few minutes, stirring often with a wooden spoon. Then deglaze with the white wine , and let it evaporate. As soon as the ragout becomes dry again
add the tomato puree , rinsing the bowl with a little water to collect all the puree and make the ragout a little more moist . Mix well and also add the tomato paste .
Continue cooking, on low heat, for 40 minutes, stirring often to prevent the ragout from sticking . Towards the end of cooking, add salt and pepper and mix carefully. The seitan ragout is ready to be used in your imaginative recipes!
The seitan ragout can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to 3 days. You can freeze it in suitable containers if you have used only fresh and not thawed ingredients.
To make a good ragout, it is known that the quality of the raw material is fundamental: choose good organic seitan, or, if you have the time, make it at home!
But what is seitan, after all? It is a highly protein-rich food, important in vegetarian diets and low in animal proteins. It is made from gluten from soft wheat or other grains and then boiled for a long time in water flavored with soy sauce, kombu seaweed, and other aromas. The appearance and final texture of seitan, although variable from product to product, are very reminiscent of meat; the flavor, however, is more delicate, and for this reason, it does its best especially in recipes where it is flavored with other ingredients or through marinades and long cooking times.

