name:
Veal stew with pumpkin, potatoes and mushrooms
ingredients:
Veal: 1.8lbs(800 g)- meat
Extra virgin olive oil: 4.1tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Red wine: ¼cup(50 g)
Meat broth: 1.3cups(300 g)- or vegetable
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(20 g)
Celery: 0.6cup(60 g)
Carrots: 3oz(80 g)
Yellow onions: 3oz(80 g)
Parsley: to taste
Champignon mushrooms: 3cups(200 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
White wine: 0.7oz(20 g)
Pumpkin: 0.8lb(350 g)
Potatoes: 0.75lb(350 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the veal stew with pumpkin, potatoes, and mushrooms, start by making the Beef Broth . Once the stock is ready, peel the carrots, clean the onions and celery, and chop them finely . Pour the oil into a pot , add the chopped vegetables , and let them soften for about 10 minutes over moderate heat, stirring often.
Meanwhile, cut the veal into cubes about 1 inch , add them to the sautéed vegetables , let them brown over high heat, then add the sifted flour and mix quickly.
Deglaze with the red wine and once the alcohol has completely evaporated, add a couple of ladles of stock . Let it cook this way for about 50 minutes, adding more stock as needed and stirring occasionally.
Meanwhile, as the stew cooks, take care of the pumpkin. Using a knife, peel it , cut it into slices , then remove the fibrous part and seeds. At this point, cut the pumpkin into cubes about 0.5 inches.
Peel the potatoes and cut them into chunks the same size as the pumpkin. Line a baking tray with parchment paper, place the pumpkin and potatoes, then season with salt , oil, and black pepper. Mix everything and bake in a preheated fan oven at 450°F for about 25 minutes (if you prefer to use a static oven, bake at 480°F for about 35 minutes).
Now move on to prepare the mushrooms. Take the champignons, remove the lower part of the stem , clean them with a damp cloth, and slice them . Pour the oil into a pan, add the garlic and let it brown over moderate heat, then remove it .
Pour the mushrooms into the pan and season with salt and pepper . Let them cook over high heat for about 6 minutes, deglaze with the wine , wait another couple of minutes and turn off the heat .
Take the potatoes and pumpkin out of the oven when ready , wait a few more minutes until the meat is tender , and add them to the pot .
Also add the champignon mushrooms , let everything season for a few minutes, and add the finely chopped parsley . Stir once more, adjust the salt if necessary, turn off the heat, and serve your stew with pumpkin, potatoes, and mushrooms while still hot .
Store the stew with pumpkin, potatoes, and mushrooms for a maximum of 2 days in an airtight container in the refrigerator.
Depending on the cut of meat, a longer cooking time may be necessary for the stew to become tender. If you prefer, instead of veal, you can use pork.

