name:
Apple crumble with chocolate sauce
ingredients:
Fioretto corn flour: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Almond flour: 1cup(100 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Butter: 0.8cup(180 g)- cold from the refrigerator
Egg yolks: 1
Eggs: 1
Fuji Apples: 1lb(470 g)
Brown sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Orange juice: 2tbsp(25 g)
Orange peel: ½
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
To prepare the apple crumble with chocolate sauce, start with the apples. Wash them, peel them , cut them into wedges, and then into slices along the shorter side . Transfer the apples to a saucepan, add the brown sugar
the zest of half an orange and the juice . Let it cook this way for about 10 minutes on low heat: the apples should not fall apart but remain crispy . Then transfer them to a bowl and let them cool.
Now move on to preparing the crumble: combine all-purpose flour, cornmeal , almond flour , and sugar in a bowl.
Finally, add the butter cut into cubes cold from the refrigerator and start kneading quickly pinching the dough so as not to warm it too much. Add the egg yolk and the whole egg
and continue kneading until you obtain a crumbly mixture. Transfer just over half of the dough into a 9-inch (22 cm) pan lined with parchment paper and gently press it with the back of a spoon to spread it over the entire surface, including the edges .
Pour the apples into the mold , arrange them evenly , and cover with the remaining dough .
This time it won't be necessary to press with the spoon but just cover the entire surface with crumbs without leaving gaps . Bake the crumble in a static preheated oven at 350°F (180°C) for 30 minutes (or in a fan oven preheated at 320°F (160°C) for about 25 minutes). Remove the cake from the oven , let it cool, and in the meantime, prepare the chocolate sauce. Coarsely chop the dark chocolate and melt it in a double boiler, stirring often.
Once the chocolate is completely melted , transfer some into a piping bag and decorate your cake according to your taste . Serve the apple crumble with the remaining chocolate sauce .
The apple crumble with chocolate sauce keeps in the refrigerator covered for up to 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
For an even more delicious crumble, add chopped chocolate to the apples before covering them with the remaining crumbs!

