name:
Turkey burger
ingredients:
Hamburger muffins: 4
Turkey: 1.3lbs(600 g)- ground
Eggplant: 1.1lbs(480 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 1 ¾cup(320 g)
Sardinian pecorino cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- fresh, sweet, sliced
Salad: 2.1oz(60 g)- green
Mustard: 2tsp(10 g)
Rosemary: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.8tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the turkey burgers, start with the aromatic herb mix: rosemary, oregano, and thyme . In a bowl, combine the ground meat with the mustard and the herb mixture ; season with salt and pepper .
Knead all the ingredients by hand and let the mixture rest in the refrigerator for 15 minutes. In the meantime, wash and trim the eggplant by removing the ends. Slice it to about 1/4 inch thick and place it on a very hot and slightly greased grill .
After a few minutes of grilling, flip the eggplant rounds to cook the other side . When done, set aside. Separate the lettuce leaves and rinse them thoroughly to remove any soil residues , then transfer the lettuce to a tray with paper towels and gently pat dry to avoid damaging it .
Lastly, wash the tomato and, after removing the stem, slice it like the eggplants, into 1/4 inch thick slices , and do the same with the cheese . At this point, all your ingredients are ready ,
you just need to move to the composition of the patties. Retrieve the ground meat from the fridge and place it inside an 11 cm round pastry cutter placed on a sheet of parchment paper . Then, use the back of a spoon to level the surface and make it smooth and brush each burger with a little oil .
Place the meat patties on the hot grill , and after 4 minutes of cooking, flip them with a spatula to cook the other side for the same time . Finally, place slices of Pecorino cheese on one side
and cover with a lid, letting it cook until the cheese melts . If you want a warm and slightly toasted bun, cut the bread in half and place both halves on the still-hot grill for a few minutes until the base becomes crispy .
As soon as your buns are nice and warm, proceed with the assembly: place 3-4 lettuce leaves and 4 tomato slices on the base of the bun , then 4 eggplant slices, and finally your meat patty with the melted cheese . Close with the other half of the bun, and your turkey burgers are ready to be bitten into while they're still piping hot !
It's recommended to consume the turkey burgers as soon as they're ready, but they can also be stored cooked for a maximum of one day by covering them with plastic wrap and keeping them in the fridge. In this case, it would be best to prepare the rest of the ingredients later to avoid oxidation or to separate them once cooked. Once the patties are formed, you can freeze them for up to a couple of weeks.
Is turkey not your favorite? No problem, you can substitute it with another type of meat! Use plenty of sauces like classic mayonnaise and ketchup to enjoy this delicacy, perhaps accompanied by french fries. Finally, try replacing the eggplants with zucchini!

