name:
Cream of asparagus and zucchini with quinoa
ingredients:
Asparagus: 10.6oz(300 g)- to clean
Zucchini: 3 ¼cups(400 g)- to clean
Water: 1.8oz(50 g)
Milk: ⅓cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Salt: to taste
Quinoa: 1 ¾cup(320 g)
Water: 2.67cups(640 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 4spoonfuls
Black pepper: to taste
Basil: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the asparagus and zucchini cream with quinoa, first focus on the cleaning of the asparagus. Remove the woody part of the stalk and cut them into pieces of about 1 cm (around 0.39 inches) . Trim and slice the zucchini, then cut them into 1 cm (around 0.39 inches) cubes . Put the vegetables in a pot .
Add the water and cook over medium heat for about 10-15 minutes from the boil. Once cooked, add the milk and the oil .
Season with salt and blend with an immersion blender until you get a smooth and creamy mixture . Set aside.
Rinse the quinoa, drain it, and transfer it to a pot . Toast for a few minutes over medium heat, stirring often . Season with salt .
Wet with water and cook by simmering the water over medium-low heat. The quinoa will be ready when it has absorbed all the water, about 20 minutes. At the end of cooking, add the oil then fluff the quinoa .
Dish up by placing the asparagus and zucchini cream at the bottom of the plate . Add the quinoa on top and finish with grated cheese .
Continue with a sprinkle of black pepper , thyme, and a few basil leaves . Your asparagus and zucchini cream with quinoa is ready to be served .
The asparagus and zucchini cream with quinoa can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for up to 2 days. The cream can also be frozen.
Want a more aromatic touch? Try enriching the cream with a teaspoon of basil or mint pesto, or add a piece of fresh ginger during cooking. For a 100% vegan version, simply use only water or a plant-based drink instead of milk, and finish with a topping of chopped nuts or mixed seeds for added crunchiness.

