name:
Spaghetti with Guacamole and Crispy Salmon
ingredients:
Egg Spaghetti alla Chitarra pasta: 11.25oz(320 g)
Salmon fillets: 7oz(200 g)- Norwegian
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Cluster tomatoes: 0.5lb(230 g)
Avocado: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Garlic: 1clove
White onions: 2.1oz(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Cumin: 0.9tsp(4 g)
Lime: 1- (juice and zest)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the spaghetti with guacamole and crispy salmon, first, focus on the guacamole sauce: cut the avocados in half and remove the central pit , then cut them into slices and remove the skin using a knife with a smooth blade .
Slice the flesh and then dice it , put it in a bowl to be mashed, and keep some diced flesh in another bowl.
Vigorously mash the flesh with a fork or a pestle until it becomes a creamy mush, then finely chop the onion , take the chili pepper, open it, and remove the seeds
and finely chop it with a knife . Then peel the tomatoes , cut them in half, and remove the internal seeds .
Then cut them into strips and finally into small cubes . Add the chopped onion, chili pepper ,
the diced tomato and crush a clove of garlic . Then wash the lime, dry it, grate the zest into the bowl with the mixture,
squeeze the juice and add it to the other ingredients . Salt and add plenty of freshly ground pepper.
Add the cumin powder , add the oil , then also add the remaining diced avocado flesh to the mixture and mix well to combine the ingredients. Then cover the guacamole with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator. Meanwhile, cook the pasta in plenty of boiling water, salted to taste .
Then cut the salmon fillet first into strips , then into chunks and sauté it in a pan with a drizzle of oil over high heat for 4 minutes.
As soon as the pasta is ready, place it in a pan and add a drizzle of oil to prevent it from sticking, add the guacamole and blend well over moderate heat, adding some pasta cooking water to make the sauce creamier.
Mix well so that the pasta binds well to the sauce , add the salmon seared in the pan, add the oil, and finally mix everything: your spaghetti with guacamole and crispy salmon are ready to be enjoyed!
It is preferable to enjoy the spaghetti with guacamole and crispy salmon freshly prepared, but if you wish you can store them for a maximum of one day in the refrigerator, sealed in an airtight container.
The secret of a great guacamole is definitely the use of well-ripened avocados.
Guacamole, in addition to accompanying some typical Mexican dishes like tostadas and tacos, is also superb as an accompaniment for grilled, breaded meat, or fish: try the recipe for Crispy Salmon with Panko , for example!

