name:
Pasta with tapenade and mackerel
ingredients:
Gluten-free Spaghetti pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Mackerel: 12.3oz(350 g)- (the fillets already cleaned)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
White wine: 1.4oz(40 g)
Parsley: to taste
Black olives: 2cups(250 g)
Anchovies in oil: 0.7oz(20 g)
Capers in vinegar: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾cup(180 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
For the preparation of the pasta with tapenade and mackerel, start by preparing the Tapenade . Pit the olives and finely chop them with a knife . Then drain the anchovies from the preservation oil and chop them as well .
Finally, rinse the capers gently under running water, then pat them dry with a paper towel and finely chop them . The ingredients for the tapenade are ready: pour the olives, capers , anchovies into a bowl, and add the oil .
Mix the ingredients well until you get a homogeneous mixture. At this point, your tapenade will be ready; set it aside and focus on preparing the mackerel. Take the fish fillets and cut them into pieces about 1.5 cm . Pour a drizzle of oil into a non-stick pan and brown a garlic clove .
When golden, remove it and add the mackerel pieces , season with salt and pepper.
Then add the washed and finely chopped parsley . Deglaze with the white wine and let it cook for about 1 minute over high heat. The mackerel is now ready: set it aside. In the meantime, boil the pasta in plenty of salted water .
At this point, take a chili pepper, remove the seeds, and cut it into strips. Pour a drizzle of oil into another pan and add the chili pepper . When the pasta is al dente, drain it directly into the pan with the chili pepper and add the tapenade .
Mix the ingredients well . Then also pour in the mackerel and plate your pasta with tapenade and mackerel !
It is preferable to consume the pasta with tapenade and mackerel freshly made. However, it can be stored in the refrigerator in a hermetically sealed container for up to 1 day.
Freezing is not recommended.
If there is leftover tapenade, you can store it like classic pesto: pour it into a glass jar, completely cover the sauce with oil, and store it in the refrigerator for up to ten days.
If you do not like the intense flavor of mackerel, you can opt for the milder taste of sea bass, perhaps adding some fresh cherry tomatoes lightly sautéed in a pan. For an alternative touch, you can also add a lemon zest cut into very thin slices or coarsely grated.

