name:
Pasta with salmon and potatoes
ingredients:
Whole wheat Penne Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Rosemary: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Salmon fillets: 10.6oz(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Red pepper: to taste
White wine: 1.5oz(40 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pasta with salmon and potatoes, start by cooking the latter. Peel the potatoes and cut them into chunks of about 0.4 inches . Finely chop the rosemary and set it aside. Place the oil in a pan, add the garlic (core removed) and let it brown, then remove it .
Add the chopped rosemary and potatoes . Salt, pepper, and stir to flavor everything. Deglaze with the white wine and let it cook for about 10-15 minutes .
In the meantime, clean the salmon. Using a flexible and sharp knife, remove the skin by sliding the knife parallel to the fillet . Also remove the bones with tweezers and cut the salmon into chunks about 1.5 inches .
Pour the oil into a non-stick pan, let it heat up, and add the salmon . Sauté it over moderate heat, being careful to turn it gently, so as not to break it, salt it and deglaze with white wine . Once the alcohol has evaporated, add the pink pepper and turn off the heat.
Wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them into 4 parts . Pour the oil into a pan, add the garlic (core removed) and let it brown. At this point, remove it and add the cherry tomatoes, salt , pepper, and cook for about 5 minutes.
Cook the mezze penne in plenty of boiling water, salted to taste . Drain them al dente and add them to the pan with the cherry tomatoes .
Mix and finish cooking for a couple of minutes, then add the potatoes , salmon chunks, and thyme leaves . Mix again to combine all the ingredients and serve your pasta with potatoes and salmon .
Store your pasta with potatoes and salmon for a maximum of 1 day in the fridge, closed in an airtight container.
Try deglazing the salmon with brandy instead of white wine. Otherwise, replace the salmon with swordfish chunks and add basil leaves!

