name:
Pasta alla Norma in bianco
ingredients:
Cellentani pasta: 11.25oz(320 g)
Salted ricotta cheese: 9oz(250 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Basil: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Eggplant: 1.1lbs(500 g)- long
Coarse salt: 5 ¼tsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.3tbsp(50 g)
Peanut seed oil: 2 ¼cups(500 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus 1-2 hours to purge the eggplants

instructions:
To prepare white Pasta alla Norma, start by cleaning the eggplants. Wash the eggplants, trim them, and slice them into half-inch thick pieces . Place them in a colander, sprinkling them with coarse salt as you go . Cover with a plate and set a weight on top and set the eggplants aside for 1-2 hours. This will remove excess liquid and the bitter aftertaste.
After this time, rinse them under plenty of running water and pat them dry with a clean kitchen towel . Place the seed oil in a high-sided pot and bring it to a temperature of 340°F (use a kitchen thermometer to reach the right temperature) and add a few slices of eggplant at a time , to ensure the oil temperature doesn't drop.
Fry your eggplants until they are golden brown, then drain them with a slotted spoon and place them on a tray lined with absorbent paper . Once the excess oil is removed, cut the fried eggplants into strips and set them aside.
Now focus on preparing the salted ricotta cream. Grate the salted ricotta and set aside about 50g for final decoration; place the remaining in a saucepan . Add a ladle of hot water ,
stir with a whisk and cook for about 10 minutes, until the ricotta is melted . Then pour the salted ricotta cream into a tall container and blend it with an immersion blender , until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous sauce.
Cook the pasta in plenty of boiling water, salted lightly (since the sauce will be very flavorful, thanks to the salted ricotta) . Meanwhile, score a fresh chili pepper, remove the seeds, and chop it finely . Place in a pan with oil, the garlic clove, with the core removed, and the chili pepper and let them brown over moderate heat, then remove the garlic.
Drain the pasta al dente and add it to the pan with oil and chili pepper , also add the eggplant strips and hand-torn basil leaves .
Pour the salted ricotta cream and stir to mix all the ingredients . Plate and decorate your white Pasta alla Norma with the reserved salted ricotta flakes and a few basil leaves .
Store the white Pasta alla Norma in the refrigerator for 1-2 days maximum.
If you prefer, you can make the white version of Pasta alla Norma just by grating the salted ricotta to add at the end.

