name:
Caprese savory pie
ingredients:
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)- cold
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Water: ¼cup(60 g)- cold
Fine salt: ⅓tsp(2 g)
Oregano: ¼tsp(1 g)- dried
Basil: 1cup(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6tbsp(80 g)
Pine nuts: 5 ½tbsp(50 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 7oz(200 g)
Basil: to taste
Oregano: to taste- dry

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
To prepare the caprese savory pie, start by making the brisée pastry. Place the flour, salt , and cold butter cut into cubes in a mixer and start blending until you obtain a sandy and floury mixture .
Then transfer it to a work surface, shape it into a classic fountain shape and add the dried oregano in the center . Pour in the cold water and start kneading quickly , so as not to heat the dough. Work until the mixture is compact, then wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest for 40 minutes in the refrigerator.
After the resting time, take the dough from the refrigerator and roll it out on a lightly floured surface until it's about a quarter inch thick . Then wrap the pastry around the rolling pin and transfer it to a 13.8x4.3 inch rectangular mold , pressing gently with your fingers to adhere the pastry well to the mold and trim any excess pastry .
Pierce the base of the savory pie with the tines of a fork , line it with a rectangle of parchment paper, slightly larger than the mold, and proceed with blind baking. Pour ceramic spheres (or dried chickpeas) onto the parchment paper and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 30 minutes (if using a convection oven, bake at 320°F for about 25 minutes). Once baked, remove the spheres and let cool.
In the meantime, prepare the basil cream. Gently wash and dry the basil leaves, then place them in a mixer cup with the pine nuts , add the oil in a stream and start blending until you obtain a smooth cream. At this point, transfer it to a bowl and add salt.
Cut the mozzarella into slices and let it drain in a colander, just while finishing the other preparations. Also, cut the tomato into slices and set it aside. Take your brisée pastry base, now cold, and start pouring the basil cream .
Level it, covering the entire surface of the base and start arranging the mozzarella slices, alternating them with the tomato slices . Finish your caprese savory pie with some basil leaves, a pinch of oregano, and serve it .
It would be best to serve the caprese savory pie just prepared, as the basil cream tends to dampen the base, and it may not be crispy. The brisée pastry itself, always wrapped in plastic wrap, can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days, or it can be frozen for a maximum of 1 month.
For a crunchy result, prepare everything in advance and assemble the caprese savory pie only when serving! Also, try the version with buffalo mozzarella or with beefsteak tomatoes!

