name:
Chocolate-covered coconut cookies
ingredients:
Shredded coconut: 1 ½cup(120 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¾cups(340 g)
Fine salt: ½tsp
Brown sugar: ½cup(125 g)
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)- cold
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Eggs: 2- medium (at room temperature)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)

instructions:
Chocolate-covered coconut cookies are crumbly delights, ideal treats to enjoy with a fragrant and aromatic cup of tea for a perfect British-style break or to accompany a classic Italian coffee. No matter which of these two options you choose, these small and indulgent chocolate-flavored cigars will win you over in any case thanks to their light texture and unique shortbread taste. You will love these chocolate-covered coconut cookies even more when you discover how easy and quick the recipe is, perfect for even the least experienced cooks.
Also discover the simple goodness of the gluten-free coconut cookies !
To make the chocolate-covered coconut cookies, pour the all-purpose flour and shredded coconut on a work surface , form the classic well in the center, place the brown sugar and beaten eggs here. Also add the baking powder
and the salt . Start gathering the ingredients with your hands, then add the cold butter cubes . Knead quickly to avoid overheating the dough ,
until you obtain a soft and homogeneous dough ball . Now preheat the oven to 375°F (static mode). Take portions of dough with a dough scraper , roll them out to create long logs about ¾ inch in diameter ,
then divide them into cigars about 3 inches long and weighing approximately ½ oz each : with these quantities, you should get about 42 cookies. Transfer the obtained cigars onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake the cookies in the preheated static oven for 15 minutes at 375°F. Once baked, remove the cookies from the oven and let them cool slightly.
Meanwhile, chop the dark chocolate with a knife and melt it in the microwave or in a double boiler (14-15).
Dip one corner of the cookies into the melted chocolate and place them back on the baking sheet lined with parchment paper , place the tray in the refrigerator for 30 minutes to let the chocolate set. Your coconut and chocolate cookies are ready to be enjoyed! .
Store the chocolate-covered coconut cookies under a glass dome for a couple of days. It's possible to freeze the shortbread dough and thaw it in the refrigerator as needed.
To garnish the cookies, you can also use white chocolate.

url:
https://www.giallozafferano.com/recipes/biscotti-al-cocco-ricoperti-di-cioccolato.html
