name:
Grilled Meat
ingredients:
Pork ribs: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Salamella sausage: 0.7lb(300 g)
Pork: 1.1lbs(500 g)- chops
Luganega sausage: 0.9lb(400 g)
Pork: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (4 skewers)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ¾tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¾tsp(10 g)
Rosemary: to taste
Ground black pepper: 10
Black pepper: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 0.7tsp(4 g)
Ground black pepper: 5

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note plus marinating time (8-10 hours)

instructions:
To prepare the grilled meat, first take care of marinating the meat. Chop the rosemary and divide it into two parts. Place the chops in a baking dish, add half of the rosemary , the oil , salt, and ground pepper. Gently massage the meat to season it and set it aside.
Place the ribs in another baking dish and repeat the same operation, i.e., add the remaining rosemary , the oil , salt, and ground black pepper. Massage the ribs with your hands as well .
For convenience, place the chops over the ribs , add the black peppercorns , cover with plastic wrap , and let the meat marinate in the refrigerator for 8-10 hours.
After about 6 hours, focus on marinating the skewers, as they require a shorter marinating time due to the presence of vegetables. Place the skewers in a baking dish and add the oil , salt, chopped rosemary , both ground and whole black pepper. Massage the skewers with your hands, cover with plastic wrap , and refrigerate to marinate for 2 hours.
After the marinating time, start cooking the ribs. Place them on a hot grill , let them brown, and turn them , then continue cooking, turning them occasionally. A total of 20 minutes of cooking will be needed. Once cooked, place them on a plate and cover them with aluminum foil.
At this point, place the chops on the grill and cook them for about 15 minutes, turning them halfway through. Once cooked, place the chops on the same plate as the ribs and cover again with aluminum foil . If your grill is large enough, you can cook ribs and chops together, paying attention to the slightly different cooking times.
Once the chops are cooked, focus on cooking the skewers. Lay them on the grill and cook them for about 3-4 minutes per side, browning them on all 4 sides . A total of about 15 minutes of cooking will be needed. Once cooked, place them on a tray and cover them with aluminum foil.
Meanwhile, as the skewers are cooking, take the sausage and cut it in half, but do not separate it completely, then open it like a book . Also, take the luganega sausage, twist it once and a half, cut the remaining part , and secure your sausage coil with skewers .
Place both types of sausage on the hot grill and cook the sausage for 4-5 minutes per side, while the luganega will take 3-4 minutes per side. Once the sausages are cooked, place everything in a baking dish , heat up the other meats, and serve your grilled meat immediately !
Grilled meat should be served immediately after cooking. Storage is not recommended.
Season the meat with other spices, such as paprika or oregano, during marinating.
When turning the meat during cooking, be careful not to pierce it to prevent the juices from escaping and to keep the meat tender!
Accompany your grilled meat with grilled vegetables, such as bell peppers and zucchini.

