name:
Bucatini alla Caruso
ingredients:
Bucatini pasta: 7oz(200 g)
Yellow peppers: 9.5oz(270 g)
San Marzano tomatoes: 2cups(500 g)
Zucchini: 2cups(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.9oz(25 g)
Garlic: 4cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Basil: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Parsley: to taste- fresh
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Pecorino cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- grated (optional)
Peanut seed oil: 2.1cups(500 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare Bucatini alla Caruso, start by washing and drying the vegetables. Then take the tomatoes, peel them with the tomato peeler , cut them in half , and remove the green inner part .
Remove the remaining seeds , then slice them thinly and cube them . Set the tomatoes aside. Move on to the yellow bell pepper: remove the green stem and cut it in half . Remove the internal white filaments and seeds.
Now slice it into strips and then small cubes : set aside. Proceed with the zucchini, trim the ends and slice them into rounds with a thickness of about 1/8 inch . Place them in a bowl with flour .
Mix them well in the flour so that it adheres uniformly to the vegetables , then transfer them to a sieve to drain excess flour and fry a few at a time in a pan with hot oil (it should not exceed 356°F, you can check with a kitchen thermometer) .
Once they are golden , drain them and lay them on a tray lined with paper towels and salt them. Set them aside and meanwhile place a pot with water on the stove to heat for cooking the pasta. When it boils, salt it. Meanwhile, proceed with preparing the sauce. Take a large-bottomed non-stick pan and sauté the garlic . If you prefer a more intense flavor, you can also crush it.
Add the bell peppers . Then take one chili pepper, remove the stem and internal seeds, and chop it into pieces . Add the chili pepper to the pan as well and let the ingredients brown for 10 minutes. If necessary, add a few ladles of pasta cooking water to allow for even cooking.
Remove the garlic and add the tomatoes . Cook for 5 minutes and then add the oregano
and coarsely torn basil , adjusting the salt if necessary . Now cook the bucatini ,
drain them still al dente directly into the pan with the sauce . At this point, add the fried zucchini to the pan as well . Finely chop the parsley
and add it to the bucatini to flavor . Mix the ingredients well to combine and plate to enjoy your Bucatini alla Caruso ! If you prefer, you can sprinkle your bucatini with Pecorino cheese!
It is recommended to consume Bucatini alla Caruso freshly made. However, it is possible to store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
Like all traditional recipes, there are multiple versions. Don't have a yellow bell pepper? You can use a red one! You can also replace San Marzano tomatoes with cherry tomatoes. If you prefer, you can omit the breading of the zucchini and fry them directly. The aromatic herbs can also be substituted: the important thing is that they are strictly typical products from Campania to honor this region, the homeland of Caruso.

