name:
Whole wheat fusilli alla crudaiola with vegetables, pumpkin seeds and salted ricotta
ingredients:
Whole wheat Fusilli pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Carrots: 1.6cups(180 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 1.67cups(250 g)
Basil: to taste
Black olives: 2.8oz(80 g)- pitted
Lemon peel: 1
Salted ricotta cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Pumpkin seeds: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Salted capers: 2tsp(10 g)- desalted
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Zucchini: 1
Carrots: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare whole wheat fusilli alla crudaiola with vegetables, pumpkin seeds, and salted ricotta, start by desalting the capers under running water. Then wash and dry the vegetables; next, take the zucchini, trim it , and grate it with a coarse grater . Proceed with the carrot: trim it
and peel it , then grate it also with a coarse grater . Then take the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half .
Slice the olives into rounds . Take a large bowl and add the carrots and zucchinis .
Then add the cherry tomatoes , olives , and desalted capers .
Coarsely chop the basil and grate some untreated lemon zest for a citrusy touch . Drizzle with a bit of raw olive oil to enhance the flavor .
Season with salt and pepper and mix all the ingredients . Your sauce is ready: set it aside. Now move on to the vegetables for decoration. Trim the zucchini, then create vegetable spirals with a spiralizer .
Repeat with the carrot after peeling it . If you don't have a spiralizer, you can use a mandoline to get very thin strips of zucchinis and carrots, which you can then cut into thin strips with a knife. Set aside the decorative vegetables. Toast the pumpkin seeds for 1 minute in a non-stick pan and set them aside. Cook the whole wheat fusilli in plenty of salted water .
Drain them while still al dente directly into the bowl with the raw vegetable sauce and mix well. Add the spiralized carrots and the decorative zucchinis .
Then add the pumpkin seeds . Now plate your whole wheat fusilli alla crudaiola with vegetables, pumpkin seeds, and salted ricotta by grating plenty of salted ricotta , garnish if you like with some basil leaves and… enjoy !
You can store the whole wheat fusilli alla crudaiola with vegetables, pumpkin seeds, and salted ricotta in an airtight container placed in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.

