name:
Spaghetti with mushrooms, artichokes, and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 0.9lb(400 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Artichokes: 1.33lbs(600 g)
Parsley: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the spaghetti with mushrooms, artichokes, and cherry tomatoes, start by cleaning the champignon mushrooms. With a knife, remove the tip of the stem , then with a clean, damp cloth, gently wipe the entire mushroom to remove the soil covering it . Finally, proceed to slicing, obtaining thin slices .
For the How to clean artichokes , start by removing the top part where the pointed leaves are, cutting off about 1 inch, then peel off the leaves until you reach the heart of the artichoke, which you can recognize by the softer texture of the petals and the lighter color at the base of the leaves . With a blade, remove the fibrous outer layer of the stem . Cut the artichoke in half and remove the internal beard with the tip of a blade . If you do not use the artichokes immediately, immerse them in a bowl with acidulated water, that is, water in which you have squeezed a lemon, to prevent oxidation that would darken the artichokes.
If you use the artichokes right away, slice them into thin strips so they cook faster and put them in a pan along with the garlic and oil , letting them sizzle for 5 minutes .
Add the champignon mushrooms and let cook for another 5 minutes. In the meantime, wash and cut the cherry tomatoes in half and then add them to the artichokes and mushrooms .
After about ten minutes of cooking, chop the parsley with a knife , add it to the seasoning , and adjust with salt and pepper .
Let it flavor for a few more moments and in the meantime, pour the spaghetti into plenty of boiling salted water . Drain them al dente, keeping aside the cooking water, and pour them into the pan with the mushroom, artichoke, and cherry tomato sauce .
Add a ladle of the pasta cooking water and let it cook for another minute . Then plate your spaghetti with mushrooms, artichokes, and cherry tomatoes and serve them very hot.
It is advisable to consume the spaghetti with mushrooms, artichokes, and cherry tomatoes immediately, but if you prefer, you can store them in the refrigerator for up to 1 day, in an airtight container. It is not recommended to prepare the vegetables in advance.
This is a recipe that embraces creativity: replace the parsley with thyme, chives, or fragrant marjoram. If you want to step away from the vegetarian theme, add sausage or bacon cubes; while for a sea and mountain version, add prawns, shrimp, or squid rings. Finally, a grating of Parmesan or pecorino cheese will always be welcome!

