name:
Sardinian gnocchetti with swordfish and pistachios
ingredients:
Gnocchetti Sardi pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Swordfish: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Pistachios: 0.3cup(40 g)- shelled
Celery: ½cup(50 g)
Carrots: 1.8oz(50 g)
White wine: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare Sardinian gnocchetti with swordfish and pistachios, start by cleaning the vegetables. After washing, removing the two ends, and peeling the carrots , cut them in half and then into sticks , and then into cubes about a quarter inch .
Do the same with the celery stalk, but first remove the fibrous outer part, using a vegetable peeler . Cut this into small cubes as well . In a pan, pour the oil along with the tiny carrot and celery cubes and add the peeled garlic clove, letting everything cook over high heat for 7-8 minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent the vegetables from burning or sticking to the bottom .
During this time, remove the skin from the swordfish slices and then proceed with cutting: to add a more creative touch, you can cut the swordfish into both large cubes and smaller cubes of about 3-4 mm (1/8 inch) thick . Remove the garlic clove from the sauté .
and add the thyme leaves . Add the swordfish cubes and let them cook for a couple of minutes. Once the swordfish cubes have turned a light color, deglaze with white wine .
As soon as the alcohol has completely evaporated, you can adjust the salt and pepper . In a pan, pour the pistachios and toast them for a couple of minutes over high heat, being very careful not to burn them, as they would become bitter, so stir often .
As soon as they are colored, pour them onto a cutting board and crumble them by cutting with the tip of a knife . Cook the gnocchetti in plenty of boiling, salted water and as soon as they are al dente, drain them .
Pour the pasta into the pan with the sauce, this way they will absorb the flavor of the condiment , stir and add the toasted pistachios . The Sardinian gnocchetti with swordfish and pistachios are ready, just serve them on plates and enjoy while still hot !
It is recommended to consume the Sardinian gnocchetti with swordfish and pistachios immediately, but if you prefer, you can store them in the refrigerator for up to one day, placing them in an airtight container.
Want a touch more color? Add some cherry tomatoes!
If you want to make the dish even more unique, try substituting the swordfish with monkfish.

