name:
Whole wheat spaghetti with red peppers, arugula, and feta
ingredients:
Whole wheat Spaghetti pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Red peppers: 3cups(450 g)
Arugula: 1.67cups(50 g)
Feta cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1cup(150 g)
Rosemary: to taste
Sage: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare whole wheat spaghetti with red peppers, arugula, and feta, start by washing and drying herbs and vegetables. Then finely chop thyme, sage, and rosemary , and proceed by cutting the peppers in half. Remove the green stem and the white filaments as well as the seeds inside. Finally, cut them into thin strips and set aside.
Now cut the cherry tomatoes in half and set them aside as well. Cut the feta into strips, then into cubes , and add it to a bowl with the arugula .
Pour 20 g (1.4 tbsp) of oil and mix the ingredients. Set aside and in the meantime bring a pot of water to a boil, which will be used for cooking the pasta. When it boils, salt it. Proceed with the preparation of the sauce: take a large-bottomed non-stick pan and sauté the garlic with the remaining amount of oil (40 g or 2.8 tbsp) . Once it is golden, remove it and add the chopped herbs .
Add the peppers and cook over moderate heat for about 12-13 minutes, adding a ladle of hot water to aid cooking . Then add the cherry tomatoes , season with salt and pepper, and let cook for another 2 minutes. Continue stirring the ingredients to ensure even cooking.
Now cook the whole wheat spaghetti and at the end of cooking, drain them directly into the pan with the sauce . Add the arugula and feta .
Mix the ingredients well to make them uniform , then plate your whole wheat spaghetti with red peppers, arugula, and feta !
It is recommended to consume the whole wheat spaghetti with red peppers, arugula, and feta as soon as they are ready. They can be stored in the refrigerator if sealed in an airtight container for a maximum of 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
Do you want to give a more pronounced taste to this delicate dish? You can add anchovies!

