name:
Pistachio and Nutella Semifreddo
ingredients:
Sugar: 0.67cup(135 g)
Egg yolks: 6 ¾tbsp(100 g)
Water: 2 ½tbsp(37 g)
Pistachio paste: 4tbsp(60 g)
Ground pistachio: 2.8tbsp(25 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Nutella: ½cup(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time (overnight in the freezer)

instructions:
To prepare the pistachio and Nutella semifreddo, start by making the Nutella core. Take a half-sphere silicone mold and, with the help of a spoon, fill it with Nutella . Level it well with a spatula , until you clean the entire surface of the mold . Cover with plastic wrap and place in the freezer for at least 2 hours. This way, you will obtain 6 half-spheres of Nutella, each weighing about 0.88 oz.
After 1.5 hours, proceed with preparing the semifreddo. Place the sugar in a heavy-bottomed saucepan and add the water , then transfer it to the heat and bring the syrup to 250°F (use a kitchen thermometer to measure the correct temperature). Meanwhile, place the egg yolks in the bowl of a stand mixer and start beating them only when your syrup has almost reached the indicated temperature.
Once the syrup has reached 250°F, pour it in a stream into the running mixer , and continue to mix until the mixture is completely cooled . Meanwhile, also whip the fresh cream to stiff peaks .
At this point, fold the whipped cream into the yolk mixture , gently stirring with a whisk, without deflating the mixture . Also, pour in the pistachio paste, after stirring it, and, still using a whisk, mix everything .
Finally, add the chopped pistachios and incorporate them into the mixture. Take a silicone mold (you can choose the shape you prefer), and pour a generous tablespoon of semifreddo into each portion , creating a base, then take the mold with the Nutella half-spheres out of the freezer and unmold them .
Then insert the Nutella spheres in the center of each mold . Cover with the pistachio semifreddo until the shape is completely filled and level the surface well with a spatula. Place your pistachio and Nutella semifreddo in the freezer for at least one night.
Take the mold out of the freezer about 10 minutes before serving, then unmold it , transfer it to a serving plate , and decorate as desired with Nutella and chopped pistachios.
Store your pistachio and Nutella semifreddo in the freezer, wrapped in plastic wrap, for up to one month.
To make a two-flavor pistachio and Nutella semifreddo, use the same base, then divide it into two bowls and add 30 grams of pistachio cream to one and 50 grams of Nutella to the other. Assemble your semifreddo by creating two layers in the mold of your choice.
The fundamental techniques for making a good semifreddo are two: Italian meringue and pâte à bombe. Thanks to the presence of sugar, both act as anti-freezing agents. They are prepared with the same procedure, but with a fundamental difference. The Italian meringue is made by whipping egg whites with a sugar and water syrup, brought to 250°F, while for the pâte à bombe, the syrup and temperature remain unchanged, but the yolks replace the egg whites. By using Italian meringue, you will create a frothy and airy semifreddo, while with pâte à bombe, you will achieve a creamier and more compact mixture.

