name:
Summer Fruit Tart
ingredients:
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Powdered sugar: 1.1cups(130 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Salt: 1pinch
Peach: 3 ⅓cups(500 g)
Strawberries: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Raspberries: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Ladyfingers: 1oz(30 g)
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the summer fruit tart, start with the pastry crust: in a mixer, combine flour, powdered sugar, and butter cut into pieces, chilled from the refrigerator and blend; when you obtain fine crumbs like sand, add the yolks . Blending further will form much larger crumbs: at this point, transfer the mixture to a work surface and knead until you get a homogeneous and compact dough.
Form a dough ball , wrap it in plastic wrap, and refrigerate for at least half an hour. In the meantime, wash and peel the peaches , slice them and then cut into pieces .
Then add them to a pan along with the hulled strawberries . Add the sugar and finally add the raspberries .
Cook over low heat until the fruit has softened and dried (about 20 minutes), then transfer it to a baking dish and let it cool . Meanwhile, roll out the pastry using a rolling pin .
Until you obtain a thickness of about 1/4 inch , line a 9.5-inch diameter tart pan , then trim the excess dough with a small knife and set it aside as it will be used to form the lattice strips.
Prick the surface of the dough with the tines of a fork , crumble the ladyfingers on top , which will help absorb the juices released by the fruit during cooking, and cover with the fruit mixture , spreading it evenly.
Until covering the entire surface . Form strips with the leftover pastry dough and place them in a crisscross pattern on the tart , forming a lattice.
Beat an egg and brush the pastry strips , then bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 40 minutes. Let it cool on a wire rack and your summer fruit tart is ready to be served !
Store the summer fruit tart in an airtight container for 3-4 days maximum in the refrigerator. If you want, you can freeze the raw pastry crust, wrapped in plastic wrap or in a freezer bag for up to 2-3 months.
If you prefer other fruits, you can also use blueberries or mixed berries. Of course, if it's not peach, raspberry, and strawberry season, you can try the winter version, perhaps with pears or apples.
As an alternative to ladyfingers, you can use amaretti to give a more robust flavor to your tart filling!

