name:
Whole wheat pancakes without milk, eggs, butter with non-alcoholic mojito
ingredients:
Water: 0.8cup(200 g)
Whole grain flour: ¾cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 35
Raw cane sugar: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 2tsp(6 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Rosemary: 1sprig
Oregano: 1sprig
Powdered turmeric: 1pinch
Lactose-free Spreadable Fresh cheese: ¾cup(175 g)
Smoked Salmon: 0.9oz(25 g)
Bresaola: 0.875oz(25 g)
Corn: 1cup(10 g)- sweet
Cherry tomatoes: 2
Chives: 2tsp(10 g)
Carrots: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Lime: 2
Tonic water: 2.1cups(500 g)
Lemonade: 2glasses(500 g)
Raw cane sugar: 3tbsp(40 g)
Ice: to taste
Mint: 2tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the whole wheat pancakes without milk, eggs, and butter, start by preparing the batter. Finely chop rosemary and oregano , then pour whole wheat flour and all-purpose flour into a large bowl ; add the instant yeast powder
brown sugar , salt , and gradually add water, starting to mix with a whisk .
Then add 2 tablespoons (1 oz) of oil , the chopped herbs, and turmeric . The batter for the whole wheat pancakes is ready. You can use it immediately or let it rest in the fridge for a while. Heat a non-stick pan and brush it with 1 tablespoon (0.5 oz) of oil using a kitchen brush .
When the pan is hot, pour a tablespoon of the mixture, forming a circular and not too large pancake ; cook it for a few minutes, and when bubbles form on the surface, flip it with a spatula and continue cooking on the other side. Continue this way with the rest of the batter, and transfer the cooked pancakes to a plate .
In the meantime, prepare the cream for the filling: finely chop the chives , pour them over the cheese , and mix thoroughly with a spoon .
Then transfer it to a disposable piping bag with a star nozzle and keep it in the fridge until use. Now focus on the decoration: cut the salmon into strips and roll them into roses about 0.1 oz each .
Cut strips of bresaola and roll them as you did for the salmon . Peel the carrot and cut it into thin sticks for the final decoration .
Cut the cherry tomatoes into small slices and set them aside; they will also be used for decoration. Decorate the now cold pancakes with a dollop of cheese cream and a rose of salmon or bresaola .
Complete with sweet corn , carrot sticks, tomatoes, chives, and a pinch of pepper, arranging the ingredients according to your imagination. Keep the pancakes cool until ready to serve. Meanwhile, prepare the non-alcoholic mojito: cut the limes in half, divide them into two parts , and then cut them again into small wedges .
Place four lime wedges in a highball glass , add a tablespoon of brown sugar per glass , and muddle the mixture with a cocktail pestle , releasing the lime juice and partially dissolving the brown sugar.
Continue like this for the other glasses , then add ice and pour lemonade
and tonic water in equal parts. Finish the non-alcoholic cocktail with mint leaves . For a more intense aroma, you can muddle them together with the lime and brown sugar. Serve the whole wheat pancakes accompanied by the iced non-alcoholic mojito .
Cooked pancakes can be stored in the fridge for 2 days, covered with plastic wrap. The pancake batter can be prepared in advance and stored in the fridge for a day.
The mojito can be stored in the fridge for a day, but it's best made and enjoyed fresh.

