name:
Quinoa and Chocolate Cookies
ingredients:
Quinoa flour: 1cup(120 g)
Farina di mais fumetto (corn flour for pastries): 0.8cup(100 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 1.5oz(40 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(20 g)
Eggs: 1
Raw cane sugar: 19tsp(80 g)
Rice milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Orange peel: 1
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Baking powder: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Corn flour: ⅛cup(20 g)- fine

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note Plus 2 hours of quinoa flour toasting

instructions:
To prepare the quinoa and chocolate cookies, start by toasting the quinoa flour: pour it into a rectangular baking sheet lined with parchment paper spreading it well with a spoon to create a thin, even layer . Toast the quinoa flour at 176°F static oven for 2 hours: this operation helps eliminate the slightly bitter aftertaste of this gluten-free flour. After the toasting time, let the quinoa flour cool and transfer it to a large bowl along with the fine corn flour .
Add the raw brown sugar , then the extra virgin olive oil and the room temperature rice milk .
Stir with a spoon , then add the unsweetened cocoa powder and the baking powder .
At this point, add a pinch of salt , the grated zest of an untreated orange , and the egg .
Mix with your hands to compact the dough and also add the chocolate chips and ground cinnamon for a spicy touch .
Slightly flatten the dough and wrap it with plastic wrap ; let it rest in the fridge for about 30 minutes. Then place it on a sheet of parchment paper and place a second sheet of parchment paper on top .
Roll out the dough between the two sheets of parchment paper , adding if necessary a little fine corn flour to prevent sticking during processing. Create a sheet about 1/4 inch thick and with a cutter, cut out flower-shaped cookies (or round if preferred) about 2 inches in diameter . With these quantities, you will get about Position them now on a baking sheet with parchment paper .
For an extra touch, you can decorate the surface of the quinoa cookies with dark or white chocolate chips . Bake the cookies in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 15 minutes, or in a convection oven for 10-12 minutes at 320°F. Allow the quinoa and chocolate cookies to cool before transferring them to a tray and serving (23-24)!
Quinoa and chocolate cookies remain soft stored in a tin box for 2-3 days.

