name:
Baked Spaghetti Mini Frittatas
ingredients:
Spaghettini pasta: 5.5oz(160 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 3.2oz(90 g)
Provola cheese: 3.2oz(90 g)
Peas: 0.6cup(90 g)
Eggs: 10.6oz(300 g)
Red onions: 1.8oz(50 g)
Nutmeg: to taste- (to grate)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: ⅓cup(80 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)- (to grate)
Marjoram: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the baked spaghetti frittatas, start by cooking the peas. Clean and finely chop the onion , then add it to a pan with half the oil, let it soften over low heat, and add the peas . Cook the peas for 5-6 minutes , adding a couple of tablespoons of water. Turn off the heat, add salt and pepper, and let cool.
In the meantime, cook the pasta in plenty of boiling water, salted to taste , for 3-4 minutes at most. Drain it and place it in a bowl, add the remaining oil to prevent the spaghetti from sticking together, and let cool. Cut the ham into cubes about 1/4 inch in size .
At this point, cut the provolone cheese to the same thickness as the ham and set the cubes aside. In a sufficiently large bowl, break the eggs, beat them , and add the milk .
Add the salt, pepper, nutmeg , provolone cubes , and ham cubes .
Add the now-cold peas , grated Parmesan cheese , and marjoram leaves .
Finally, add the cooked spaghetti and mix everything together until all the ingredients are combined . Divide the resulting mixture into 8 molds, each with a diameter of 4 inches .
Place the molds on a baking sheet and bake your frittatas in a preheated static oven at 430°F for 30 minutes (if using a fan oven, bake in a preheated oven at 390°F for about 20 minutes). Once out of the oven , let the baked spaghetti frittatas cool slightly, and unmold them using a spoon before serving.
Store your baked spaghetti frittatas in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
To get evenly sized baked spaghetti frittatas, first place the pasta and toppings in the molds, then divide the remaining liquid mixture among the 8 forms.

