name:
Pasta, Vegetable and Pesto Minestrone
ingredients:
Angelhair pasta: 7.1oz(200 g)
Water: 1.9cups(450 g)
Pumpkin: ½cup(125 g)
White zucchini: 1.8oz(50 g)
Cauliflower: 4cups(180 g)- (already cleaned)
Beans: 0.67cup(100 g)- fresh
Leeks: 2.1oz(60 g)- (already cleaned)
Tomatoes: 0.8cup(150 g)
Celery: 1.1oz(30 g)
Carrots: 1.4oz(40 g)
Potatoes: 5.3oz(150 g)
Pancetta tesa: 1.8oz(50 g)- smoked
Red onions: 1.4oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.1tbsp(30 g)
Peas: ½cup(80 g)
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Nutmeg: to taste- (to grate)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: 15tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tbsp(30 g)
Pecorino cheese: 0.4oz(10 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.4oz(10 g)
Coarse salt: 1pinch
Pine nuts: 2tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the pasta, vegetable, and pesto minestrone, start with the preparation of Genoese pesto (for the complete procedure, consult the Genoese pesto (Pesto alla genovese) guide). Gently rinse the basil leaves by soaking them in a bowl of cold water. Then dry them completely by spreading them out on a dry cloth. Next, place a peeled clove of garlic in a mortar (or a mixer with very cold blades) and crush it together with the basil leaves and coarse salt . Pound, rotating the pestle from left to right while simultaneously rotating the mortar in the opposite direction. As you continue to crush, add the pine nuts and cheeses. When you have obtained a cream, pour in the oil in a thin stream while continuing to crush. When all the ingredients are blended, the pesto will be ready. Set it aside.
Proceed with the preparation of the minestrone: wash and dry all the vegetables. Take the pumpkin, remove the skin with a large-bladed knife , then remove the seeds and inner strings with a spoon . Cut it into slices of the same thickness and then into cubes about 1 cm on a side .
Move on to the zucchini: trim it and cut it into slices and then into cubes . Now separate the florets from the cauliflower .
Next, shell the beans . Then proceed with the leek, cutting it into thin rings . Finely chop the celery into small cubes .
Move on to the tomatoes: remove the green stalk, cut them into slices, and then into small cubes . Finely chop the onion and peel the carrots, cut them into strips, then into cubes .
Repeat the operation with the potatoes: peel them , cut them into slices and then into strips, and then into cubes . Now cut the pancetta into thin slices and then into cubes .
Finally, roughly chop the parsley . Now you have all the ingredients ready for preparation. Take a high-sided non-stick pan to prepare the How to make the soffritto : drizzle with oil and fry the celery, carrots , and onion, stirring the ingredients for even cooking . It will take about 7-8 minutes.
When the ingredients have browned, add the clove of garlic and the pancetta to flavor. Tie the rosemary sprigs and bay leaves with kitchen string .
Add the bouquet of herbs to the pan . Now pour in the leek and a bit of water to stew the ingredients over moderate heat for about 10 minutes. Then add the pumpkin .
Also add the beans and cook for another 10 minutes over moderate heat. At this point, add the potatoes and season with a sprinkle of nutmeg .
Add the cauliflower and zucchini . Season with salt and pepper and cook for about 5-6 minutes over moderate heat. Then add the peas and tomatoes .
Pour in 400g of water in a thin stream to allow the vegetables to cook and cover with a lid. Let it go for 30 minutes over moderate heat . At this point, remove the garlic . Cook for another 15 minutes.
Flavor with the parsley . Now add 50 g of water, which will be used for cooking the pasta. You can add a slightly different amount than indicated, depending on whether you prefer a more liquid or drier minestrone. Then remove the rosemary and bay leaves . Now cook the pasta .
Two minutes before the end of cooking, add the pesto and mix the ingredients well to blend them . Your pasta, vegetable, and pesto minestrone is now ready to be enjoyed !
You can store the pasta, vegetable, and pesto minestrone in the refrigerator for up to 1 day in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
A more flavorful minestrone? Near the end of cooking, add some Parmigiano crusts to give it a richer taste and sprinkle some after plating! You can also choose to use your preferred seasonal vegetables and substitute them for those indicated.

