name:
Salento Puccia with Olives
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1.8oz(50 g)
Water: ¼cup(60 g)- (warm)
Brewer's yeast: 0.4tsp(2 g)
Malt: 0.4oz(10 g)
Potatoes: 0.5lb(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.3tbsp(50 g)
Water: 1.7cups(400 g)- (warm)
Fine salt: 3 ½tsp(20 g)
Black olives: 7oz(200 g)- Celline
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste
Mozzarella cheese: 1.3cups(150 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: ¼cup(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 18 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the rising time of 5-6 hours

instructions:
To prepare the Salento puccia with olives, start by preparing the starter. Take a large bowl and pour in the all-purpose flour and durum wheat semolina . Add the yeast and malt .
Then add the lukewarm water a little at a time, allowing it to be absorbed well by the dough by kneading with your hands until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture. Now shape it into a small sphere .
Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise in a turned-off oven with the light on or at a constant temperature of 82°-86°F for at least 5-6 hours. If you prefer, you can choose a different rising method: let the dough rise in a turned-off oven with the light on for 1 hour, then transfer it to the refrigerator for an entire night or 12 hours. After the necessary time, the starter should have doubled in volume . Then retrieve the starter and if you let it rise in the refrigerator, wait at least 2 hours to bring it back to room temperature. Pour it into the bowl of a stand mixer .
Boil the potatoes in a pot with plenty of water. It will take about 30-40 minutes depending on the size of the potatoes you use. Once boiled (you can test them with the tines of a fork), peel them and mash them with a potato masher into a small bowl . Transfer them to the bowl of the stand mixer .
Add the sifted all-purpose flour and semolina and finally also the unpitted olives . Add the oil .
Knead at low speed with the paddle. Gradually add the lukewarm water in a thin stream , allowing it to be absorbed by the mixture. When the ingredients are completely combined, detach the mixture from the paddle with the help of a dough scraper . Then replace the paddle with the hook and add the salt .
Run the stand mixer and knead at medium speed until the dough is elastic: it will take about 10-15 minutes . Transfer the dough to a lightly oiled work surface . Work the dough to give it a spherical shape and transfer it to a large lightly oiled bowl , covered with plastic wrap.
Let it rise for at least 2 hours at room temperature until you notice that the dough has doubled in volume . After the necessary time, oil your hands to facilitate working with the dough. Extract 18 pieces of 90g each and form spheres with each .
Roll them in the durum wheat semolina until the entire surface of the dough piece is covered . Take a baking sheet, cover it with parchment paper, and arrange the dough balls on it. Be sure to place the pucce spaced apart from each other . Let them rise for about 1 hour. Now bake in a preheated static oven at 446°F for about 40 minutes (if using a fan oven, bake at 410°F for about 30 minutes). Once baked, remove them from the oven and let them cool on a wire rack until they reach room temperature. This concludes the preparation of the Salento pucce with olives.
If desired, you can fill the pucce with mozzarella and sun-dried tomatoes. If you want to proceed with the filling, cut the puccia in half with the help of a knife , place one or two slices of mozzarella and on top of them, place some sun-dried tomatoes. Then close with the other half, and you will have your stuffed Salento pucce with olives !
Salento pucce with olives can be stored for up to 2 days under a glass dome.
If you prefer, you can freeze the dough raw or once cooked. If you freeze it raw, let it thaw before working it and bring it back to room temperature.
The preparation times for the pucce are very long, so if you prefer, you can make the starter the night before.
For the dough, if you prefer to bite into the puccia without worries, you can choose pitted olives!

