name:
Pasta casserole with spinach
ingredients:
Penne Rigate pasta: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Spinach: 16.7cups(500 g)- (fresh)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Mortadella: 12.4oz(350 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 14oz(400 g)
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 7oz(200 g)- (to grate)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)- (to grate)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8

instructions:
To prepare the pasta casserole with spinach, start by browning a clove of garlic in a non-stick pan sprinkled with a bit of oil . Rinse the spinach and add them to the pan . Cook them over medium heat for 3-4 minutes with the lid on .
Remove the garlic and drain the spinach using a sieve placed over a bowl . Chop them with a knife and set aside.
Now take the mortadella, cut it into strips , then into cubes . Do the same with the caciocavallo cheese . Set both aside.
Proceed with preparing the Grana Padano DOP cream. In a high-sided pan, melt the butter over low heat and, once completely melted, add the flour gradually . Stir with a hand whisk and let it cook over low heat to obtain a roux with a golden color .
Then add the warmed milk and continue stirring with the hand whisk until the mixture thickens . Remove from the heat and add the grated cheese gradually, bit by bit . Continue whisking to achieve a smooth cream without lumps. The final consistency of the cream should be dense enough that when a spoonful is taken and dropped back into the pot, it does not settle immediately at the bottom.
At this point, take a large pot, fill it with water, salt it, and bring to a boil. Cook the pasta until al dente . Then drain and transfer it to a large bowl with high sides where you will add the Grana Padano DOP cream and the caciocavallo cubes .
Add the mortadella and the spinach and mix the ingredients well with a spatula .
Oil a baking dish measuring 12x8 inches and place the pasta with its dressing in it . Level it and sprinkle grated Grana Padano DOP all over the surface . Bake in a preheated static oven at 400°F for 15-20 minutes (if using a convection oven at 350°F for 10-15 minutes). Remove from the oven and let it cool slightly before serving your pasta casserole with spinach at the table !
The spinach pasta casserole can be stored in the refrigerator for about 2-3 days covered with plastic wrap.
It can be frozen once assembled, either raw or cooked.
Let your imagination run wild in this pasta casserole: cooked ham instead of mortadella, smoked scamorza or Emmental instead of caciocavallo. If the Grana Padano DOP cream doesn't suit your taste, you can use a classic béchamel!

