name:
How to clean the truffle
ingredients:
Truffles: 1.4oz(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Serving: 10
Cost: High

instructions:
To store the truffle you have purchased or received as a gift, you can keep it for a few days in a perfectly clean and dry glass jar. To retain all its fragrance, it is necessary to maintain a correct level of humidity inside. For this purpose, it is recommended to wrap it, without washing it, with dry, clean gauze , or with kitchen paper or a piece of fabric without laundry odors. The important thing is that it is wrapped with breathable material that allows oxygen exchange. Then place it in a dry, clean glass jar , close the lid , and store the jar in a cool place, even on the least cold shelf of the refrigerator, for about a week.
When it comes time to use the truffle in your preparations, if it is a black one, rinse it under cold running water to remove excess dirt and clean it thoroughly by removing all impurities using a brush or a semi-hard bristle brush (if it's a white truffle, you can use a brush with very soft bristles) . Once this is done, the truffle will be ready to be thinly sliced with the special truffle slicer , to season first courses, eggs, or flavor tender fillets!
The truffle is a very delicate ingredient. It can be stored in a cool place for a short period (maximum 7-8 days) wrapped in breathable gauze and sealed in a glass jar.
Once cleaned, the black truffle can also be frozen whole, although it would lose some of its fragrant aroma.
Place the truffle in sealed jars containing eggs or rice, so they will acquire its intense aroma! However, be careful to keep the truffle in contact with the rice as little as possible because the latter is a natural desiccant and would promote the rapid drying of the prized fungus.
Already popular in ancient Egypt as a dish cooked "en papillote" wrapped in fat (the "Terfezia"), the truffle was also appreciated by the Greeks and Romans, who attributed it with therapeutic and aphrodisiac properties as they considered it to be of divine origin. In the medieval era, however, it was believed that the truffle was a diabolical fruit, and for a time, it was no longer consumed.

