name:
Vegetarian meatballs
ingredients:
Precooked chickpeas: 1.1cups(260 g)
Spinach: 8 ½cups(250 g)
Carrots: 5.6oz(160 g)- to clean
Red onions: 4.6oz(130 g)- to be cleaned
Eggs: 2
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.3oz(65 g)- grated
Breadcrumbs: ¾cup(100 g)
Salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste- coarse

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 26 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the vegetarian meatballs, first peel the carrot , then cut it into strips and then into cubes of 0.2-0.3 inches . Slice the onions finely .
In a non-stick pan, pour a dash of oil, add the onions , and sauté over medium-low heat for about 4 minutes or until they are soft and golden. Add the carrots and well-drained chickpeas .
Season with salt and cook for about 8 minutes. Then add the spinach , a little at a time, because they are bulky and won't all fit in the pan at once; wait for them to wilt a bit before adding the rest. Cook for 5 minutes and let cool slightly.
Take half of the vegetables, transfer them to a blender , and blend until smooth . Then place it in a bowl and add the remaining vegetables .
Add the Parmesan , eggs , and breadcrumbs .
Mix the ingredients to obtain a moldable mixture . Form the meatballs, about 1.2 oz each, and dip them first in the eggs and then in the coarse breadcrumbs .
Place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and drizzle with a little oil . Bake in a preheated static oven at 428°F for 18-20 minutes. Your vegetarian meatballs are ready to be enjoyed hot, perhaps with a yogurt sauce as an accompaniment .
Vegetarian meatballs can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container or covered with plastic wrap, for 2-3 days. The mixture can also be prepared the day before and stored in the refrigerator. The meatballs can be frozen either raw, already breaded, or cooked.
For a stronger flavor, add a hint of mustard and half a teaspoon of curry to the mixture. You can vary the vegetables depending on the season and availability, making them a great fridge-clearer! You can replace chickpeas with other legumes like cannellini beans, lentils, or peas, achieving a slightly different flavor each time. For the accompanying sauce, you can opt for plain yogurt seasoned with oil, salt, and sweet paprika, or a spicy tomato cream!

