name:
Ridged spaghetti with lemon and shrimp
ingredients:
Spaghetti Rigati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Shrimps: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (to clean)
Shrimp bisque  (Fumetto di crostacei): 3cups(700 ml)- (prepared with shrimp heads and shells)
Lemon juice: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Water: to taste- hot
White onions: 1
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the ridged spaghetti with lemon and shrimp, start by How to clean shrimp the shrimp: remove the shrimp heads , then proceed by detaching the legs and finally gently remove the shell ; keep all scraps aside to prepare the crustacean broth.
At this point, you can cut the shrimp lengthwise to remove the intestine, the internal black thread, using kitchen tweezers ; then complete the cut by dividing the shrimp in half . Set the shrimp aside. Continue with the preparation of the Shellfish Stock : in a pan, add the butter and let it melt, then add a clove of garlic and the onion and sauté over low heat for 1 minute. Then add all the other roughly chopped aromatics: the celery, the leek, the carrot (optional), the parsley. Let it flavor, then add the shrimp shells and heads .
Pour the white wine and let it evaporate, then add the washed and quartered cherry tomatoes (optional) and 1 liter of water . Finally, adjust the salt (not too much because the broth is already quite savory) and pepper. Let the bisque simmer with the lid on and over low heat for about 60 minutes. During cooking, skim the broth with a skimmer, taking care each time to rinse.
Once the broth is ready, it will have reduced by half from the initial liquid; you can pour it into a mixer to blend it into a homogeneous mixture , which will then be filtered with a fine-mesh strainer to remove lumps and residues . Then pour part of the bisque into a large pan and turn on the low heat.
Add the ridged spaghetti to the pan with the bisque, to cook them like risotto. Stir the spaghetti with kitchen tongs to turn them more easily until they have softened slightly . Continue pouring the broth little by little, and if it is not enough to cook the spaghetti, you can gradually add hot water (about 1 ¼ cups) to continue cooking them like risotto . For the risotto-style pasta cooking, consider at least 15-20 minutes over low heat. In the meantime, wash the lemon and peel the zest with a vegetable peeler, taking care to take only the yellow part and not the white part, which is more bitter .
Cut the zest into thin strips , then also squeeze the lemon juice and strain it. In a large pan, add the oil and sauté a clove of garlic, then add the lemon zest and let them brown over medium heat for a few minutes, stirring occasionally with a spatula.
At this point, add the shrimp , stir and adjust salt and pepper . After a few seconds, also add the lemon juice .
and the chopped thyme , then cook for just a few minutes until the shrimp meat turns white but remains tender. Finally, remove the garlic and turn off the heat. In the meantime, the pasta will also be ready, so add the shrimp to the ridged spaghetti in the pan , stir for a few moments over moderate heat and serve to enjoy the ridged spaghetti with lemon and shrimp while hot !
The ridged spaghetti with lemon and shrimp can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
For an even more exquisite dish, you can choose prawns instead of shrimp. You can also flavor with parsley or marjoram instead of thyme!

