name:
Risotto with Ham and Melon
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 2cups(400 g)
Prosciutto crudo: 4.9oz(140 g)
Melon: 1 ½cup(350 g)- (pulp)
Vegetable broth: 6.3cups(1.5 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Shallot: 0.7oz(20 g)
Stracciatella cheese: 0.7cup(160 g)
White wine: ½cup(120 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Marjoram: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the risotto with ham and melon, start by removing both ends of the melon and cut it in half . Use a knife to remove the outer skin and divide each half into 2 equal parts again .
Remove the inner part with the seeds and cut it into slices not too thick, then dice them into about half-inch cubes . Set aside, and in the meantime, take the ham and slice it into strips about half an inch thick .
Let them brown in a non-stick pan for a few minutes without adding oil : as soon as a light crust forms on the surface, they will be ready. Now finely chop the shallot . Place it in a large pan and sauté it with a drizzle of oil .
When it is wilted, add the rice and let it toast for a few minutes. Then deglaze with white wine . When the wine has evaporated, add a ladle of Vegetable broth . Stir the risotto from time to time and continue to add a ladle of broth, only when the previous one has been completely absorbed.
When almost cooked, add the melon and ham , reserving a few pieces for the final decoration, and mix everything. Once the risotto is cooked, remove it from the heat and add the stracciatella to cream it , continuing to stir until it melts, to obtain a creamy risotto.
Adjust salt and pepper . Rinse the marjoram leaves and add them to the risotto to flavor it . Now plate, decorate with some reserved ham strips, and enjoy this original risotto with ham and melon !
It is recommended to consume the risotto with ham and melon immediately while still warm.
It can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.

