name:
Strawberry and Chocolate Trifle
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1.4cups(330 g)
Sugar: 5tbsp(60 g)
Vanilla extract: 10drops
Cornstarch: 4tbsp(35 g)
Oreo cookies: 2oz(55 g)
Strawberries: 2 ½cups(400 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Strawberries: ¾cup(120 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.1cups(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + time to cool down

instructions:
To prepare the strawberry and chocolate trifles, start by gently rinsing the strawberries, both those for the compote and those for the decoration, but keep them separate. Remove the top part and cut them into small pieces , then pour the 400 grams of chopped strawberries into a pot along with the sugar .
Let them cook over high heat for about 20 minutes until you have obtained a compote with an intense color and quite dry . When the compote is ready, pour it into a container in which you have placed a fine-mesh sieve .
Sift it with the help of a spatula to completely remove the fruit seeds; finally, let it cool. While the compote is cooking, also prepare the milk cream by pouring 250 grams of milk into a saucepan, adding the vanilla essence , then add the sugar , and let it heat over low heat.
Meanwhile, sieve the cornstarch in a container and mix it with the remaining milk , making sure no lumps form, then pour the mixture over the milk cream and mix carefully to avoid lumps .
A few moments will be enough for the cream to be ready, so as soon as it thickens , pour it into a container, cover it with cling film, and let it cool . When the milk cream and the strawberry compote are at the same temperature, mix them with a whisk ,
until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream (if lumps form, sift through a fine-mesh sieve). Pour the newly obtained cream into a piping bag and fill the base of the 4 glasses . On a cutting board, finely chop the cookies with a knife .
Then pour some into each glass , reserving a bit for the final decoration. Cover with more strawberry cream and sprinkle the surface with the 120 grams of strawberries you chopped initially . Pour the liquid cream into a container and add the powdered sugar ,
then cover the container with cling film and make a hole in the center, where you'll position and activate the whisks ; this way, you'll avoid making a mess in the kitchen. When the cream is whipped, pour it into a piping bag. If you prefer a more decorative look, you can use a star tip, otherwise you can do without , and fill the glass until the cream slightly overflows on the surface. Decorate all around with the remaining cookie crumbs .
To finish your dessert, cut a strawberry into 4 parts and place each quarter on the dollop of cream . At this point, your strawberry and chocolate trifles are ready, and it's time to enjoy them !
You can store your strawberry and chocolate trifles in the refrigerator for 1 day, covering them with aluminum foil. You can also prepare both the cream and the compote the day before: once ready, cover with cling film and let cool completely, then you can keep them in the refrigerator (remember to take them out of the fridge at least a couple of hours before using).

