name:
Bavette with octopus and shrimp
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.25oz(320 g)
Shrimps: 0.9lb(400 g)- (to clean)
Cherry tomatoes: 12.3oz(350 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1tuft
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Shrimp bisque  (Fumetto di crostacei): 2.1cups(500 g)- (prepared with shrimp scraps)
Octopus: 1.33lbs(600 g)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Juniper berries: 4
Red pepper: 5berries

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Note plus the cooling time of the octopus

instructions:
To prepare the bavette with octopus and shrimp, first cook the octopus. Place a large pot filled with salted water on the stove and bring it to a boil. Meanwhile, How to Clean and Cook Octopus , turning and emptying the head, removing the beak located at the center of the tentacles with a knife , and removing the eyes ; rinse it very well under cold running water .
As soon as the water starts boiling, dip and remove the tentacles several times until they curl (4-5) (they will be much more beautiful to look at once plated), and then finally immerse the entire octopus. Add the seasonings to the water: bay leaf, juniper berries, the slightly crushed garlic clove, and pink peppercorns . Cover the pot with the lid, lower the heat to a minimum (the water should just simmer), and let it cook this way for 40 minutes.
Meanwhile, remove the heads and shells from the shrimp and set aside the meat. Prepare a Shellfish Stock with which you will cook the bavette, making them extremely flavorful. Put the butter in a pot and let it melt, then add the thinly sliced garlic, onion, and leek, let them brown, and add the shellfish scraps, remembering to crush the heads well to release the flavorful part of the shrimp. Deglaze with white wine (or with brandy or cognac), then add the cherry tomatoes (optional), boiling water, parsley, chives, pepper, and salt, and pour in 500 g of water .
Let it cook on low heat until the liquid is reduced by half, then blend everything and strain it with a fine mesh strainer . You have obtained your shellfish fumet .
Once cooked, let the octopus cool inside its cooking water, then drain it (13-14) and cut it into pieces .
Then also cut the cherry tomatoes into 4 . In a pan, brown the garlic and the chili pepper, seeds removed and cut into strips, with the extra virgin olive oil , then add the cherry tomatoes and salt ;
let it cook for about 10 minutes, then turn off the heat, remove the garlic , add the octopus and finely chopped parsley .
Meanwhile, heat a part of the bisque in a large pan (22-23), add the bavette (they should lie comfortably and you should be able to stir them easily).
Cover to the brim with the boiling fumet . Stir continuously to prevent them from sticking, gradually add the hot fumet until they are 3 minutes from being cooked (if you run out of fumet before the pasta is done cooking, you can use hot water or light vegetable broth). Meanwhile, cut the shrimp in half lengthwise (if they are smaller, you can leave them whole).
Once your bavette are almost cooked, add the cherry tomato and octopus sauce , the shrimp (if they are smaller, you can leave them whole), chopped parsley, and ground pepper. Finish cooking and serve your bavette with octopus and shrimp while still hot .
Store your bavette with octopus and shrimp for a maximum of 1 day in the refrigerator, in an airtight container.
For a more decisive flavor, try adding a handful of capers and chili pepper!

