name:
Fusilli with mussels and cuttlefish
ingredients:
Fusilli pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Octopi: 0.6lb(250 g)
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 0.7oz(20 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Cherry tomatoes: 2.3cups(350 g)
White wine: 1.7oz(50 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare fusilli with mussels and cuttlefish, start with the How to clean cuttlefish . Cut open the belly of the cuttlefish and remove the bone . After opening it in half, gently remove the ink sack if present . Separate the head from the body by gently pulling the two parts in opposite directions. After cutting the body, remove the skin .
Then take the head of the cuttlefish and remove the beak (tooth) : you can apply slight pressure with your fingers under the beak to locate it and push it upwards. Incise around the bulb the eyes of the cuttlefish and remove them . Rinse the cuttlefish under running water. Now cut the body of the cuttlefish into strips lengthwise and chop the tentacles into small pieces. Set aside.
Continue with the How to Clean and Open Mussels . Rinse the mussels under running water . Using the blade of a knife (or a steel wool pad), remove encrustations and impurities from the shell and then remove the byssus . Rinse them again with fresh water. Set aside.
Then take the chili pepper, open it lengthwise and remove the seeds, then cut it into thin strips . Add it with a clove of garlic chopped into pieces into a pan with a drizzle of oil . Sauté until the garlic turns golden brown. Finely chop the parsley . Keep a little aside to flavor and garnish the dish.
Add the remaining parsley to the pan along with the mussels . Cook for a few minutes with the lid on over high heat .
When the mussels open, turn off the heat and drain using a fine mesh strainer placed over a bowl to filter the water released during cooking . Set aside the liquid and shell the mussels , leaving a few whole for garnishing the dish. Now take a large non-stick pan and sauté a clove of garlic . If you prefer, you can crush it.
Add the washed and halved cherry tomatoes . Let them cook in the pan for 10 minutes over moderate heat. Then remove the garlic and add the cuttlefish . Cook for another 5 minutes.
Then deglaze with white wine and add the mussels . Sauté for another 1-2 minutes, then turn off the heat. Pour some of the mussels' cooking liquid into a large pot and heat it if necessary until it boils.
Then add the fusilli : they should be barely covered by the mussels' cooking water, which you can add gradually : if the mussels' cooking liquid is not enough, use boiling water or light Vegetable broth . Stir continuously to prevent the pasta from sticking. Two minutes before the end of cooking, transfer the fusilli to the pan with the mussels and cuttlefish sauce .
Sauté for 1 minute, stirring with a spatula to mix the ingredients well . Season with salt and pepper and add the chopped parsley . Finally, plate your fusilli with mussels and cuttlefish, garnishing the dish with a few whole mussels and serve hot !
It is recommended to consume fusilli with mussels and cuttlefish as soon as they are cooked.
However, if you have leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 1 day.
Freezing is not recommended.
Want to add a touch of extra freshness to the dish? Julienne the untreated peel of a lemon, removing the bitter white part, and add it at the end to flavor and decorate your pasta!

