name:
Crispy Chicken Salad with Vinaigrette
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1lb(450 g)
Eggs: 2- (medium)
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(100 g)- (for breading)
Vegetable oil: 1.4cups(300 g)- (for frying)
Mixed salad: 7cups(200 g)
Carrots: 2 ¼cups(300 g)
Cucumbers: 2 ¼cups(300 g)
Beefsteak tomatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(120 g)
White wine vinegar: (40 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the crispy chicken salad with vinaigrette, start by rinsing the vegetables. Take the cucumbers, trim them, and peel them with a vegetable peeler . Repeat the operation for the carrots . Cut the cucumbers and carrots in half first and then into strips about 1/4 inch thick .
Cut the tomatoes in half lengthwise, then slice them into strips 1/4 inch thick . Now focus on the vinaigrette. Combine the vinegar and salt in a large bowl . While whisking with a hand whisk, drizzle in the oil .
Finally, season with pepper and continue whisking until you obtain a homogeneous emulsion: your vinaigrette is ready. Set it aside. Now cut the chicken breast into strips about 3/8 inch thick . In a small bowl, beat the eggs and season with salt. Then dip each chicken strip into the egg .
then roll the chicken strips in the breadcrumbs, making sure to coat them well . Then take a large pan and pour in the seed oil. Heat to a temperature of 338°F (you can measure with a kitchen thermometer) and immerse the chicken strips . Fry for about 3-4 minutes until they are golden brown .
Once fried, drain the chicken on a tray lined with paper towels . At this point, start assembling the salad. Take a large bowl and add the mixed greens, carrots , and cucumbers .
Add the tomatoes . Drizzle with a little oil and season with salt .
Mix to season and divide the salad into serving plates, placing the chicken on top. Dress with the vinaigrette and serve the crispy chicken salad with vinaigrette for a tasty lunch !
It is preferable to consume the crispy chicken salad with vinaigrette just after assembling.
You can store the cut but undressed vegetables in a tightly sealed container in the refrigerator for up to 1 or 2 days.
Freezing the preparation is not recommended.
A richer crispy chicken salad? Add any vegetables you like! Boiled green beans, steamed potatoes, and any other vegetables you prefer!

