name:
Millet balls with vegetables and broad bean cream
ingredients:
Millet: 1cup(200 g)- hulled organic
Water: 2.3cups(550 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Breadcrumbs: 0.4cup(50 g)- gluten-free
Parsley: 1tsp(5 g)- (to chop)
Powdered turmeric: 1pinch
Fine salt: 1pinch
Garlic: 1clove
Zucchini: 0.8cup(100 g)
Carrots: ½cup(100 g)
Shallot: 0.5oz(15 g)
Eggplant: 3.5oz(100 g)
Breadcrumbs: ⅓cup(40 g)- gluten-free
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fava beans: ¾cup(150 g)- (shelled)
Mint: 2leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the millet balls with vegetables and broad bean cream, start by preparing the millet. Rinse the millet well under a stream of cold water and drain it , finely chop the shallot , and dice the carrot .
Dice the eggplant and the zucchini as well and set everything aside. Then heat the oil in a pan and add the millet ,
let it toast for a few minutes, stirring occasionally , then slowly pour in the hot water , add salt , and let cook for 25 minutes.
Once cooked, transfer the millet to a bowl and let it cool completely. In another pan, wilt the shallot in a little oil over low heat , then add the carrots ,
then the eggplants and finally the zucchinis . Salt everything ,
and let it cook for 20 minutes, deglazing with a ladle of hot water or Vegetable broth until they become soft . Now start preparing the broad bean cream: shell them one by one ,
and once all are shelled , blanch them for about 10-15 minutes . Then pour the broad beans into a tall container, add oil, mint, and salt
and blend everything with an immersion blender until you get a creamy mixture . Add to the cold millet: the vegetables ,
the chopped parsley , a crushed garlic clove , and the turmeric .
Finally, add 1/2 cup of gluten-free breadcrumbs to achieve a consistency suitable for shaping the balls. Then shape the small balls by taking about 1 oz of mixture at a time and forming a round and slightly flattened shape, then roll each ball in breadcrumbs and continue until the dough is finished.
Cook the balls in a non-stick pan with a little extra virgin olive oil , browning them well on both sides to achieve a crispy and tasty surface. If you want, you can also bake them in a static oven at 350°F for 18-20 minutes or in a convection oven at 320°F for 10-15 minutes. Serve your millet balls with vegetables as an appetizer or as a second course along with the broad bean cream .
You can store the millet balls with vegetables in the refrigerator for one day if raw, or for two to three days at most if already cooked, always storing them in an airtight container. You can freeze the raw balls and then cook them as needed.

