name:
Lemon Paradise Cake
ingredients:
Butter: 1.3cups(300 g)- (at room temperature)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Potato starch: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Lemon peel: 2- (untreated)
Eggs: 4
Egg yolks: 4
Baking powder: 1tbsp(16 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Egg yolks: 6
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Potato starch: ¼cup(35 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(35 g)
Lemon peel: 3- (untreated)
Fresh liquid cream: 2.1cups(500 g)
Candied lemon: 0.7tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the lemon paradise cake, start with the preparation of the cake base. Combine the softened butter at room temperature with the granulated sugar in a bowl. Mix the ingredients with electric beaters until you get a creamy and homogeneous mixture . Grate the zest of the untreated lemons and continue mixing the ingredients .
Take the eggs and separate the yolks from the whites (you will only need 4 whites, with the remaining you can prepare delicious meringues!): then add 8 yolks to the butter and sugar mixture , one at a time, always leaving the electric mixer running. Before adding another yolk, make sure the previously added ones are well mixed. Sift the flour and add it to the mixture . Still continuing to mix the ingredients with the beaters, also sift the cornstarch and baking powder into the bowl .
Whisk the mixture until it achieves a homogeneous and compact consistency . Then proceed by adding a pinch of salt to the whites of 4 eggs that you set aside and start whipping the egg whites until stiff .
When the egg whites are stiff , add them to the mixture . Gently mix them with a spatula using an upward motion to avoid deflating them .
Then pour the mixture into a 9.5-inch pan lined with parchment paper . Level the mixture with a spatula or a spoon to allow even baking . Now bake the paradise cake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 60 minutes (or in a fan oven at 320°F for 50 minutes). When it is ready, take it out of the oven and let it cool slightly, then remove it from the pan and transfer it onto a wire rack to cool completely.
While the cake is baking, prepare the Lemon Cream . In a small bowl, pour the yolks and granulated sugar and with a hand whisk, mix the ingredients until the mixture is light . Then gradually add the sifted flour and cornstarch and continue mixing well to get a lump-free mixture .
Meanwhile, heat the milk in a saucepan (it should not reach a boil), to which you add the grated zest of untreated lemon . Be careful to take only the yellow part of the peel because the white part has a bitter taste. When the flavored milk is almost boiling, incorporate it into the egg, sugar, and flour mixture, filtering it with a fine-mesh sieve to keep the lemon zest . Using a hand whisk, vigorously mix the ingredients to obtain a homogeneous and slightly thick mixture .
Pour the obtained cream into a saucepan (if you prefer, further filter it with a fine-mesh sieve to catch any lumps) . Heat the lemon cream over low heat, continuing to stir with the hand whisk until the cream has thickened sufficiently and has a compact but soft consistency: it will take about 15 minutes. Finally, transfer the cream into a low and wide bowl and cover it with cling film touching the surface to prevent a crust from forming . Let it cool at room temperature, and when it has cooled, transfer it to the refrigerator for at least an hour.
At this point, the paradise cake will have cooled. With the help of a long-blade knife, mark a guideline on the edge halfway through the cake. Then make the cut along the guideline . Then transfer half of the cold lemon cream into a piping bag (the other half will be used to decorate the cake) and fill the base of the paradise cake with the lemon cream. Start from the edges and proceed with concentric circles until covering the entire surface . Place the other half of the paradise cake on top of the lemon cream and apply very light pressure with your hands . Transfer the assembled cake to the refrigerator.
Finally, whip the cream and add it to the remaining lemon cream . Mix the whipped cream and lemon cream with the hand whisk to make the mixture homogeneous .
Then take the cake from the fridge and distribute part of the lemon and cream mixture, covering the entire surface evenly, using a spatula . Transfer the remaining cream into a piping bag with a star nozzle and create diagonal lines of cream on the sides of the cake for decoration . To finish the decoration, create dollops of lemon cream and whipped cream next to each other, starting from the outer edges of the cake's surface . Decorate the entire surface of the cake this way.
Now, on a cutting board, cut the candied lemons into small cubes and scatter them over the decorated surface of the cake . Your lemon paradise cake is ready to be enjoyed !
You can store the lemon paradise cake for up to 2 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container.
The paradise cake can be frozen without filling and decoration once baked.

If you want to use this cake for a snack, you can skip the decoration and halve the lemon cream doses, using it only for the internal filling!

