name:
Vietnamese rolls with sweet and sour sauce
ingredients:
Edible rice paper: 8fogli
Water: to taste- (to rehydrate)
Zucchini: 1cup(120 g)
Carrots: ½cup(120 g)
Leeks: 1.1cups(100 g)
Shrimps: 8.8oz(250 g)- (to be shelled)
Vegetable oil: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Soy sauce: 2tbsp(30 g)
Water: ⅓cup(80 g)
Rice vinegar: ½cup(120 g)
Brown sugar: ⅓cup(80 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Tomato paste: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the Vietnamese rolls, start by preparing the accompanying sweet and sour sauce. In a saucepan, pour the rice vinegar, water , brown sugar , and coarsely chopped chili pepper .
Let it thicken over low heat, stirring often , for about 10 minutes. Then add the tomato paste with the heat off and mix well. Let your sauce rest for a few minutes before pouring it into a small bowl .
Once the sauce is prepared, focus on preparing the vegetables. Wash the carrots well, peel, and trim them. Using a mandoline, cut slices about 1/8 inch (2 mm) thick . Cut them into julienne strips and then in half again .
Also, wash the zucchini well and, using the mandoline, cut slices of the same thickness as the carrots (1/8 inch) . Cut these slices into julienne strips and then again in half .
Take the leek, remove the greener parts and leaves, and make a vertical incision to take only the central part, then cut it in half . Pass this through the mandoline as well and cut the leek strips in half again .
Clean the shrimp by removing the head , shell , and internal intestine. Place them on a cutting board and coarsely chop them with a knife.
In a wok, heat the vegetable oil and add the leek and carrots . Let them soften for a couple of minutes and add about half of the soy sauce .
At this point, also add the zucchini and season with the remaining soy sauce . Cook everything for another 2-3 minutes, turn off the heat, add the shrimp , and mix everything.
Rehydrate the rice paper sheets in water , place them on a cutting board, and fill them with the filling, leaving an outer edge of about 1/2 inch . Fold the longer side of the rice paper sheet over the filling .
At this point, also fold the outer edges inward (28-29) and start rolling the roll from the bottom .
Roll all the way to the end to perfectly seal your rolls . Repeat this operation for the other rice paper sheets until the filling is used up. Serve your Vietnamese rolls with the sweet and sour sauce .
Consume the Vietnamese rolls with sweet and sour sauce as soon as they are prepared. Alternatively, you can prepare the filling and store it for up to one day in the refrigerator, assembling the rolls when needed. Freezing is not recommended. The sweet and sour sauce, if kept vacuum-sealed, can be stored for 1 week.

