name:
Chocolate and Strawberry Tart
ingredients:
Dark chocolate 50%: 3.5oz(100 g)
Butter: 2.8oz(80 g)
Eggs: 2- (medium)
Sugar: 5 ½tbsp(70 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(20 g)
Dark chocolate 70%: 1.6oz(45 g)
Strawberry jam: 3tbsp(50 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2tsp(10 g)
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Dark chocolate: 1.8oz(50 g)
Strawberries: 4
Mint: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 12 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate and strawberry tart, start with the chocolate and strawberry filling. Take a bowl and place the chocolate pieces inside to melt them in a double boiler (alternatively, you can melt them in the microwave) with the fresh cream . Stir the ingredients well to combine them, using a spatula . Then pour the melted chocolate and cream into a bowl .
Add the strawberry jam to the bowl and mix with a hand whisk . Once the ingredients are well combined, transfer to the freezer for 15 minutes to allow the ingredients to set and create the soft center of the tart. Meanwhile, proceed with the tart preparation. In another bowl, melt the chocolate with the butter in a double boiler . Stir the ingredients with a spatula to prevent lumps.
When the chocolate is completely melted, turn off the heat and let it cool. Now take a large bowl: pour the eggs and sugar and whisk with an electric mixer at maximum speed . You should get a light, smooth, and homogeneous mixture .
Then sift the flour and add it gradually to the mixture . Mix the ingredients with a spatula until you get a lump-free mixture. Finally, add the not-hot chocolate and butter mixture to the obtained mixture . Using the spatula, incorporate the chocolate cream .
The ingredients should be completely combined . Set the chocolate tart batter aside. Now butter 4 individual 70 ml molds with butter . Coat them with flour, covering the entire surface of the mold .
Then pour the chocolate tart batter, using a ladle, into the molds until they are 2/3 full (alternatively, you can use a funnel or a dispenser) . The chocolate and strawberry center should have set in the freezer by now. Take it out and place two teaspoons in the center of each mold . Now cover the molds with the remaining batter .
Do not fill them to the brim, as during baking, the batter may overflow . Then place the molds on a baking sheet and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 12 minutes (if using a convection oven, bake at 356°F for 8 minutes). Once cooked, remove them from the oven and wait a few minutes for them to settle. While the cakes rest, wash the strawberries under running water and gently dry them with a kitchen towel . Set them aside.
Then, in a bowl, melt the dark chocolate in a double boiler (if you prefer, you can cut it into pieces to make the operation easier) and mix with a spatula to create a lump-free mixture . Then transfer the melted dark chocolate to a small bowl. Dip the strawberries halfway into the bowl , let the excess chocolate drip off. Then place them on a tray covered with parchment paper to allow the chocolate to set slightly .
Once the chocolate has set, transfer each strawberry to a small plate . Remove the tart from each mold by inverting it carefully to avoid breaking it. Serve your chocolate and strawberry tart now, decorating with some mint leaves and accompanying with the chocolate-covered strawberries .
To best enjoy the chocolate and strawberry tart, consume them freshly made, still warm.
Alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator once cooked, for 1-2 days in an airtight container.
Otherwise, they can be frozen uncooked, only if you have used all fresh, non-defrosted ingredients.

