name:
Chicken breast with corn flakes
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 0.9lb(400 g)- (4 slices)
Corn flakes: 3 ⅓cups(100 g)
Hot Paprika: 4.3tsp(10 g)
Eggs: 1
Whole milk: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Greek yogurt: 0.8cup(200 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Chives: 1filo
Cucumbers: 0.7cup(100 g)
White wine vinegar: 2tsp(10 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the chicken breast with corn flakes, start with the quick tzatziki; pour the Greek yogurt into a bowl and, using a garlic press, squeeze the two garlic cloves into it . Then pour the olive oil into the bowl , and chop the chives
and add them to the mixture . At this point, mix everything with a kitchen spatula, adjust the salt ,
pour the white wine vinegar . Wash and trim the cucumber with a knife , grate it directly into the bowl with the skin very coarsely on the large side of the grater .
Mix and keep the creamy mixture , aside in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap. Meanwhile, focus on preparing the chicken breasts: put the corn flakes in a transparent bag and crush them coarsely with the rolling pin until you get a fairly fine mix .
Pour the crushed corn flakes into a baking dish , add 5 g (1 tbsp) of paprika and mix well .
In another separate baking dish, pour the beaten egg and add the milk to make the taste more delicate, finally adjust the salt and mix well (18.)
At this point, place the chicken breasts on the cutting board and sprinkle them uniformly with the remaining paprika (you can use smoked paprika instead of spicy paprika if you prefer) and a pinch of salt . Once done, dip them one at a time first in the beaten egg
and then in the corn flakes coating . Place the chicken breasts in the coating, pressing it with your hands uniformly over the entire surface , and arrange them on a tray .
Take a large pan, heat the seed oil to a temperature not exceeding 340-356°F (170-180°C) to keep constant by measuring with a kitchen thermometer; cook the chicken breasts which should be flush with the oil , first on one side and then on the other for about 5 minutes (alternatively you can use the oven and bake them in bite-sized pieces in a static preheated oven at 356°F (180°C) for 10-15 minutes). When the chicken breasts are cooked and crispy, turn off the heat and place them on a tray with absorbent paper. Serve the chicken breast with corn flakes hot with tzatziki .
You can store your chicken breast with corn flakes for up to 1 day in the refrigerator. Freezing is not recommended.

