name:
Tandoori chicken with chapati and turmeric sauce
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Fresh ginger: ½tsp(3 g)- (to be grated)
Greek yogurt: 0.7cup(150 g)
Smoked paprika: 4 ¼tsp(10 g)
Lime juice: 1
Salt: 1pinch
Tandoori mix: 5tsp(20 g)
Buckwheat flour: 0.833cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Water: 3cups(90 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Greek yogurt: 0.4cup(100 g)
Powdered turmeric: 2tsp(10 g)
Honey: 1.4tsp(10 g)
Tabasco®: to taste
Chives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 3 hours of marinating the tandoori chicken; 30 minutes of resting the chapati dough

instructions:
To prepare the tandoori chicken with chapati and turmeric sauce, start with the tandoori chicken preparation. Take the chicken breasts and cut them into regular cubes that you will use to make skewers . Transfer the chicken to a fairly large bowl and add the smoked paprika . Adjust with salt .
Grate some fresh ginger and also pour in the juice of one lime and the Greek yogurt . Mix the ingredients well to allow them to blend until everything appears a uniform reddish color.
Then add the tandoori mix . Blend this last one with all the ingredients as well . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it marinate for at least 3 hours in the refrigerator. If possible, it would be preferable to let it marinate all night so that the flavors are absorbed by the chicken. In the meantime, proceed with preparing the turmeric sauce. Take a small bowl and pour in the yogurt .
Then add the honey and turmeric . Adjust with a pinch of Tabasco to give the sauce a spicy touch .
Then finely cut the chives and add them to the mixture . Mix well to blend all the ingredients uniformly and then place it in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap.
At this point proceed with the preparation of the chapati. Take a bowl and pour (there's no need to sift them) the all-purpose flour and the buckwheat flour . Adjust with a pinch of salt and mix with a whisk to blend the ingredients . Then add the oil .
Now also add the water in a stream to knead. Pour the water gradually to check how much water your flours absorb. If the dough seems too liquid, add less than expected, if it is too compact add a little more. Knead vigorously with your hands to create a homogeneous mixture free of lumps . Shape your dough into a sphere and cover it with transparent plastic wrap : let the dough rest at room temperature for at least 30 minutes in a dry place.
When it has rested, divide the dough into four parts, if necessary using a dough scraper . Roll each piece with the rolling pin to obtain a sheet about 1/8 inch thick . Then take a non-stick pan with a flat bottom at least as large as your chapati. Heat it and cook one chapati at a time, first on one side .
Then turn it and finish cooking . This operation will take about 1 minute per side. To finish the cooking, move the chapati directly over a not too high flame for 5-6 seconds per side to make it puff slightly. Turn it on each side using kitchen tongs, taking care not to burn yourself. At this point, the tandoori chicken will be marinated. Take it out of the refrigerator and skewer the chicken pieces on a skewer about 11 inches long . Place about 6 pieces of chicken on the skewer, spacing them apart to allow even cooking.
Then take a baking tray about 10 inches on one side (if you want, line it with parchment paper to avoid dirtying it when the tandoori chicken skewers release liquids while cooking). Lay the skewers on a baking tray so that the skewer rests on the edges of the tray and the chicken remains suspended and does not touch it . Now place in the oven on grill mode at 482°F for 10 minutes, being careful to turn the skewers halfway through cooking. The chicken should appear almost charred . Finally, take the chapati, spread some turmeric sauce in the center and place your tandoori chicken on top of it .
Store the tandoori chicken in the refrigerator for 2-3 days covered with plastic wrap and heat it in the oven before serving. You can freeze it cooked and defrost it when needed.
The chapati can be stored for one day at room temperature under a glass dome. Freezing is not recommended.
The turmeric sauce can be kept in the refrigerator covered with contact plastic wrap for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended
For this recipe, a ready-made tandoori mix was used to marinate the chicken. Nowadays, you can find it in all well-stocked grocery stores. However, it is also possible to use a mix of spices such as garam masala to which curry, turmeric enriched with garlic, ginger, and Cayenne pepper can be added.
A small mention of traditional cooking. The oven used to prepare this type of dish is the tandoori oven, a sort of overturned bell, generally made of clay and wood-fired. This oven was traditionally used to bake unleavened bread because it quickly reaches high temperatures, about 900°F, from which the chicken derives the slight crust on the outside while remaining tender inside.

