name:
Stuffed Pork Loin
ingredients:
Pork loin: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Asparagus: 8.8oz(250 g)
Granny Smith apples: 0.7lb(300 g)
Carrots: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Water: to taste- (to deglaze)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the stuffed pork loin, start by dealing with the vegetables. Use a peeler to scrape off the outer layer of the carrots and then use the same tool to create thin strips of carrot . Also peel the asparagus stalks, removing the hard and woody part .
Remove the white bottom part of the stalk and leave the cleaned asparagus whole. Move on to the apple: cut half into thin slices . Then focus on cleaning the loin: use a sharp knife to remove the fat and outer nerves .
Make a deep cut along the vertical line, at the center of the loin . Do the same with 2 more cuts on each side to create 5 equal, parallel incisions. Stuff each pocket with 2 carrot strips and lightly salt .
Then continue to stuff by alternating: place apple slices between the carrots in one pocket , and a whole asparagus (or 2, if very thin) in another until all 5 cuts are filled. How to tie a roast your loin, first wrapping the string around the long side and securing it .
Then wrap it around the short side, pulling tightly to give the roast a compact shape, and secure it again . Grease a non-stick pan of sufficient diameter with a little oil and place the loin in it . Sear the roast on all sides over high heat ,
then remove it from the heat and deglaze the cooking juices with a little water, about a glass , to create a sauce to drizzle over the meat. Grease a rectangular baking dish with high edges with a little oil , place the seared roast in it, and season with salt and pepper .
Moisten with the reserved cooking juices , and return to the side dish: remove the core from the remaining apple and cut it into large cubes , then cut the remaining asparagus into chunks .
Add the apple cubes and chopped asparagus around the roast in the dish , and finally cover with a sheet of aluminum foil . Bake the stuffed pork loin in a preheated static oven at 392°F and cook for 50 minutes (or in a fan oven at 356°F for about 40 minutes). Your dish is ready! .
Stuffed pork loin can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for up to 3 days. You can freeze it if you used fresh ingredients.
To ensure that your roast is perfectly cooked, a useful tool to rely on is a kitchen thermometer: when the roast is ready, the ideal internal temperature should be between 158°F and 162°F.

