name:
Baked Croaker with Citrus Aroma
ingredients:
Croaker: 2.9lbs(1.3 kg)- (two of 650 g each)
Orange peel: 2- (untreated)
Lemon peel: 2- (untreated)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Marjoram: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare the croaker en papillote with citrus fragrance, start by cleaning the fish. Take the croaker, place it under running water, and scale it using a fish scaler or a knife blade. Rub the tool repeatedly along the entire body of the croaker, from the tail to the head. Repeat the process until it is completely scaled, keeping the fish under running water to aid in cleaning the scales and avoid spreading them on the work surface. Then place the croaker on a cutting board, take scissors and make a cut along the belly of the fish starting from the tail up to the head . Remove the entrails
and rinse the inside thoroughly under running water . Place the croaker back on the cutting board and, using a sharp knife, make a deep incision along the back of the fish from the head to the tail . Then, cut away the first fillet and set it aside.
At this point, angle the knife diagonally and make a clean cut at the head, near the fish's gills . Then remove the central bone of the croaker . Remove the central bone with the help of the knife
and with kitchen tweezers, remove any remaining bones . You will then have two croaker fillets. Repeat all the cleaning steps with the other croaker and set the fillets aside. Proceed to prepare the citrus. Take the untreated orange and, with a small knife, peel it by rotating the blade around the fruit to obtain a long strip of peel about 0.8 inches wide (be careful not to break it). If you have cut the white inner part of the peel, which is more bitter, scrape it away with the knife blade .
Then divide the orange peel in half following the line of the peel, lengthwise . Repeat these steps for the other orange and the lemons. Now take a croaker fillet and, starting from the widest part, wrap an orange peel around it, creating a spiral pattern . Then take a lemon peel and thread it through the orange peel .
in such a way that the orange and lemon peels are intertwined . Repeat the operation for the other fillets. Salt and pepper and place the marjoram between the citrus peels .
Then take a baking sheet, line it with aluminum foil, and place parchment paper on top . At this point, place a croaker fillet on the parchment paper . Cut a garlic clove in half and place one half on the fillet .
Drizzle with extra virgin olive oil and wrap the parchment paper to cover the fish . Then wrap the aluminum foil, joining the ends .
You need to completely close the fish inside like a parcel and twist the ends like a candy wrapper . Repeat the operation for the other croaker fillets, place them on a baking sheet, and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 20 minutes (if using a convection oven, 356°F for 12 minutes) . Once cooked, remove the aluminum foil and serve your croaker fillets with citrus fragrance still wrapped in parchment paper .
The croaker en papillote with citrus fragrance can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 day.
Freezing is not recommended.
Let your imagination run wild and experiment with combining different citrus and spice aromas. You can opt for yellow or pink grapefruit or lime for a more intense and tangy citrus flavor, as well as to confer alternative colors to those of orange and lemon. Not a fan of marjoram? You can then pair it with sage, thyme, or rosemary!

