name:
Grilled Croaker on Chickpea and Rosemary Cream
ingredients:
Croaker: 1.5lbs(650 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Dried chickpeas: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Shallot: 1oz(30 g)
Water: 2.1cups(500 g)
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Lime juice: 4tbsp(60 g)- (filtered)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4 ½tbsp(60 g)
Parsley: 0.4oz(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Note + 12 hours of soaking if using dried chickpeas

instructions:
To prepare the grilled croaker on chickpea and rosemary cream, start by cleaning the croaker. Place the whole fish under running water and scale it using a descaler tool or alternatively use the blade of a knife. You need to rub the descaler from the tail along the entire croaker until it is completely descaled. With a pair of scissors, cut the belly of the fish along its entire length and remove the entrails .
Carefully wash the eviscerated inside under running water . Then move on to filleting: make a cut on the croaker's back, passing the blade of a sharp knife close to the fish's spine until separating the meat from the bone . With a second cut, separate the obtained fillet from the head .
Once you have obtained the first fillet , proceed in the same way on the other side to obtain the second one. With a sharp knife, remove the reddish veins from the central part of each fillet and finally, with the help of a special plier, gently remove the bones .
Now focus on the chickpea cream. Cut the shallot into julienne strips and place it in a saucepan where you have poured a little oil . Let the shallot brown gently, then add the chickpeas . If you are using dried chickpeas, this operation should be preceded by 12 hours of soaking. Otherwise, you can use pre-cooked chickpeas: in this case, the amount to use will be 500 g. Cover the chickpeas with water .
Add the rosemary and salt then let it cook for 30-40 minutes. Remove the rosemary and blend thoroughly with an immersion blender .
Cut the lime and squeeze the juice . Strain it if necessary, and place it in the blender glass along with about 60 g of extra virgin olive oil and parsley .
Blend until you get a homogeneous emulsion, dip a brush in it and brush the croaker fillets . Heat a cast iron grill and lightly grease it, then place the fillets on it and grill them on the flesh side for about 5 minutes.
Turn them on the skin side , and grill them for another 5 minutes. Distribute the chickpea cream on the plates and place the fillets on top. The grilled croaker on chickpea and rosemary cream is ready to enjoy !
The grilled croaker on chickpea and rosemary cream keeps in the fridge, covered, for 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
The extra touch? A rich grind of pepper on the freshly grilled fish: definitely the best!

