name:
Christmas Almond Cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(300 g)
Almond flour: 1cup(120 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Butter: 0.8cup(180 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Vanilla bean: 1
Egg whites: 1
Powdered sugar: 1cup(120 g)

instructions:
The recipe we propose today is an original idea to prepare delicious Christmas almond cookies. These almond treats are very simple to prepare: just put all the ingredients in a large bowl and mix by hand to get a compact and homogeneous dough, from which to cut out the cookies. They are so simple that you can have fun making them even with the help of your children! To make these cookies, not only tasty but also nice to look at, we decorated them with a white icing, but nothing prevents you from using a colored one. The Christmas almond cookies are a nice idea to decorate your Christmas tree but can also be used as a gift: package them in transparent bags, adding some other Christmas treats like crunchy , Lebkuchen and cantucci, and close everything with a colored ribbon, you will make a great impression!
To prepare the Christmas almond cookies, place in a large bowl the all-purpose flour, almond flour, granulated sugar , and seeds from a vanilla bean ,
egg yolks and softened butter cut into cubes . Begin to mix all the ingredients by hand ,
then transfer the mixture to a lightly floured work surface and continue kneading until you obtain a homogeneous and compact dough . Form a dough ball, cover it with plastic wrap, and place it in the refrigerator to rest for at least one hour .
After the indicated time, sprinkle a work surface or board with a pinch of flour and roll out the dough with a rolling pin until you obtain a sheet about 0.2 inches thick and, with the help of Christmas-shaped cutters, cut out 40 cookies . Place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake them in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 6 minutes (the surface should remain light) .
Completely cool the obtained cookies on a rack and, in the meantime, prepare the icing: whip the egg white until stiff and gradually mix in the powdered sugar until you obtain a thick and homogeneous mixture , which you will transfer to a piping bag fitted with a fine, smooth nozzle. Decorate each cookie as you like and let them rest for about 5 minutes until the icing sets. The Christmas almond cookies are ready: Merry Christmas!
You can store the Christmas almond cookies in a tin box for up to 4-5 days. It is possible to freeze the dough while still raw.
If you don't like almonds, you can replace them with the same amount of hazelnut flour.

url:
https://www.giallozafferano.com/recipes/christmas-almond-cookies.html
