name:
Barbie Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 6- (medium)
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(90 g)
Potato starch: 3.2oz(90 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Egg yolks: 5
Cornstarch: 3tbsp(40 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Whole milk: 1.375cups(330 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.42cup(100 g)
Butter: 0.8cup(175 g)- (at room temperature)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)
Egg yolks: 3.2oz(90 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Water: 0.8cup(200 g)
Maraschino flavoring: 2spoonfuls
Sugar paste: 1.1lbs(500 g)- white
Food coloring: to taste- pink
Decoration mix: 3.5oz(100 g)- lace and frills
Water: 5.3tbsp(80 g)
Edible glue: to taste
Cornstarch: to taste- (for rolling out the sugar paste)

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 3 h
Cook time: 1 h 50 min
Serving: 10
Cost: High
Note plus the cooling time of the preparations

instructions:
To prepare the Barbie cake, start by preparing the Sponge cake using the cold split method. Take the eggs, which should be at room temperature, and separate the egg whites from the yolks . Place the egg whites in the mixer bowl, add a pinch of salt and about 1/3 of the total amount of sugar indicated . To whip them best, there should be no trace of yolks in the whites, and both the bowl and the whisk should be clean. Start the machine at medium speed and whip the egg whites until glossy but not stiff, to obtain a uniform mixture and not scattered lumps that will prevent lumps from forming in the batter; if you don't have a mixer, you can safely use an electric beater. When the egg whites are white, sufficiently fluffy, and soft, stop the mixer .
In the meantime, cut a vanilla bean with a small knife, collect the seeds, and set them aside. Pour the remaining sugar (the other 2/3) into the bowl containing the yolks , then start beating with an electric mixer at medium speed. Add the vanilla bean seeds and work the mixture until you obtain a frothy, well-aerated mixture of light yellow color. Gently combine the beaten yolks with the egg whites ,
and mix with a whisk (or a spatula) from top to bottom to not deflate the mixture. At this point, add the sifted flour and potato starch together and mix them into the batter with a spatula .
Pour everything into the special mold (for the Barbie cake), previously greased and floured, with a diameter of 8 inches and a height of 7 inches, and level it slightly with a spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 50 minutes; if using a convection oven, bake at 320°F for about 40 minutes. Once cooked (it's always advisable to do the toothpick test), remove your cake from the oven , let it cool slightly in the mold, then unmold it and let it cool completely on a rack, then gently remove the central pin .
While the cake is baking, focus on preparing the Pastry cream . Pour the milk and cream into a large saucepan and place it on the stove. Take the vanilla bean, slice it with a small knife, collect the seeds, and add them along with the bean to the pot with the milk and cream . As soon as it reaches a simmer, turn off the heat and let it infuse for 5 minutes. Meanwhile, separate the egg whites from the yolks and place them in a large bowl. Add the sugar to the yolks and beat with an electric beater or a hand whisk until you obtain a smooth and frothy cream.
Then add the corn starch and continue to beat. Remove the vanilla bean from the milk and cream mixture , and while stirring quickly, add the prepared egg and starch mixture .
Turn the heat back on to low and continue stirring constantly until your custard thickens . At this point, turn off the heat and transfer the cream to a shallow and wide bowl. Immediately cover it with plastic wrap in contact with the cream to prevent a skin from forming. Let it cool first at room temperature and then in the refrigerator.
In the meantime, focus on preparing the Buttercream . Combine the sugar and water in a thick-bottomed saucepan , then heat it over low heat, stirring occasionally with a steel spoon. Meanwhile, pour the yolks into the mixer bowl . When the sugar has dissolved, stop stirring and bring the syrup to 250°F , using a kitchen thermometer to measure the temperature. Start the mixer to whip the yolks only when the syrup has almost reached the indicated temperature.

Add the syrup in a thin stream to the mixer bowl , which will have reached the temperature, and continue to whip until completely cooled. In the meantime, cut the vanilla bean and collect the seeds with a small knife . At this point, place the room temperature butter in a bowl, and add the vanilla bean seeds to the bowl .
Using a spoon, start working it until you obtain a smooth mixture . Incorporate the vanilla butter into the mixer , adding it one spoonful at a time, and continue to whip until you obtain a creamy mixture . Place the buttercream in a bowl and store it in the refrigerator until ready to use.
Finally, focus on preparing the syrup. Pour the water and sugar into a saucepan . Heat it on the stove until the sugar is completely dissolved, then remove it from the stove and add the maraschino flavor ; if you prefer an alcoholic syrup, you can use maraschino liqueur. Transfer the syrup to a baking dish and let it cool .
Only when all preparations are completely cold, proceed to cut the cake. Divide your sponge cake into 4 discs . At this point, you will have everything you need to assemble the cake. Start by soaking the widest sponge cake layer with the previously prepared syrup (now cooled) using a brush . Transfer the custard to a piping bag and place it in a circular manner on the soaked cake disc .
Continue in this way by placing the appropriate sponge cake layer , from the largest to the smallest, to reform the cake. Complete your cake by soaking each layer and filling it with custard .
Place the last disc and, using a spatula, start spreading the buttercream on the cake , until covering the entire surface , to best adhere the sugar paste which you will use later to cover the cake.
At this point, start decorating your Barbie cake. Take 5.3 oz of the 17.6 oz of white sugar paste and roll it out on a mat dusted with cornstarch. Make sure to form a rectangle , thin enough, about 1/8 inch thick, that will allow you to cover about half of the cake. Then position it horizontally on the part of the cake facing you and make it adhere well to the buttercream, without folding the upper edge of the sugar paste layer over the sponge cake .
Trim the excess sugar paste at the base of the cake, cutting it following the exact perimeter of the cake , thus avoiding it protruding onto the tray. Work the scraps of paste with your hands and set them aside, wrapped in plastic wrap, for the final decorations. Place the cake in the refrigerator and focus on the decorations. Heat the water in the microwave to 104°F, then add it to a bowl where you have already poured the decoration preparation . Mix with a beater until you obtain a creamy mixture .
Take a spoonful of this mixture and spread it on a silicone mat suitable for making lace . Use a scraper to scrape the surface , removing the excess amount .
Then bake in a preheated static oven at 250°F for 5-6 minutes (or in a preheated convection oven at 210°F for about 4 minutes). Be sure to always cover the decoration preparation when not in use to prevent it from drying out. Once baked, let it cool and gently remove the lace sheet . Cut it in half horizontally , and to apply it, brush the edible glue on the lower part of the cake covered with sugar paste .
Stick the lace strip, making it adhere well to the glue . Pinching parts of the lace between your thumb and index finger, as you stick it, you will be able to create folds. Continue this way, and always using the edible glue, stick the various lace strips from bottom to top until covering the entire surface. Take the remaining sugar paste (12.3 oz) and add a couple of drops of pink coloring , then work it with your hands until you obtain a uniform color. If it seems too light, add another drop of coloring and work it again to achieve the desired shade.
At this point, roll out your pink sugar paste on a mat dusted with cornstarch to a thickness of about 1/4 inch and use it to finish the other side of the skirt. Gently place the sugar sheet on the uncovered part of the cake, always using edible glue to stick it to the part already covered with white sugar paste. Try to create folds with your fingers to make the skirt look as natural as possible. Trim the excess paste again, both at the top and the bottom .
Work the scraps of pink paste with your hands for a few minutes to smooth it out again. Roll it out and use a part to make the bodice of your Barbie, reproducing the neckline by making a v-cut on the top . Then cover Barbie’s torso , and remount the arms. Use the decoration preparation and, as previously done for the lace, add a spoonful on a mat to create the beads, and scrape with a scraper .
Bake again in a preheated static oven at 250°F for 5-6 minutes. Let cool, then remove the bead strip , and stick it with edible glue around the skirt's edge (23-24). Keep a small piece aside for making the necklace and bracelet.
Now place Barbie's upper body in the hole in the center of the cake . To make the final embellishments, use the remaining pink sugar paste and cut a strip about 2.5 inches wide. Decorate it with a cake design rolling pin to create horizontal lines . Shape the edges with a small knife, brush the back with edible glue, and attach it between the torso and skirt to cover the exposed parts .
Roll out the scraps again and use a small knife to cut a tiara and position it on Barbie's hair. Also, place the bead strip around the neck and join the ends with glue, repeat the same operation around the arm to create the bracelet. Roll out the remaining white sugar paste and cut a strip of about 1/2 inch , brush the back with glue and attach it to Barbie's waist to make the belt . Make small flowers from the paste scraps to embellish the skirt. Your Barbie cake is ready , refrigerate for a couple of hours before serving.
You can store the Barbie cake in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Alternatively, you can freeze it before decorating.
If you don't have the decoration preparation, which can be found in stores specializing in baking products, you can easily make the lace with white sugar paste. Roll it out very thin and cut strips 3/4 inch wide, this way you'll get ruffles, even if not lace! You can purchase the mold for making the Barbie cake online, or otherwise use a dome-shaped one.

