name:
Tomato savory pie with stracciatella
ingredients:
Triple concentrated tomato paste: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)- (cold from the fridge)
Water: 1.5oz(40 g)- (cold)
Stracciatella cheese: 1.2lbs(550 g)
Beefsteak tomatoes: 0.95lb(430 g)
Brown sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Note + 40 min. of resting for the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
To prepare the savory tomato pie with stracciatella, start with the shortcrust pastry. Take a blender and add flour, cold butter from the fridge cut into small pieces , and adjust with salt . Blend until you get a sandy and floury mixture. Take a small bowl, pour in the tomato paste and cold water .
Then mix until the tomato paste is completely diluted ; pour the flour and butter mixture onto a work surface (or a metal or glass surface, as long as it is cold) and create a well in the center. Pour the diluted paste and knead vigorously with your hands .
When you have a compact, firm, and fairly elastic dough, create a loaf, wrap it with clear plastic wrap , and let it rest in the fridge for at least 40 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the caramelized tomatoes. Rinse the tomatoes under plenty of running water, then cut them into slices about 0.75 inches thick and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper next to each other .
Sprinkle the tomatoes with brown sugar and bake them in grill mode at 518°F for 5-6 minutes. Then take them out of the oven and let them cool . Meanwhile, take the dough and with the help of a rolling pin, roll out the shortcrust pastry on a lightly floured surface to a thickness of 0.39 inches .
Then take a 10-inch diameter pie pan, butter and flour it. Wrap the tomato shortcrust pastry around the rolling pin and gently unroll it onto the pan . Press it well into the bottom and sides of the pan, ensuring you apply light pressure with your fingers on the edges ; use a knife to trim the excess shortcrust pastry edges .
Prick the bottom with a fork , then proceed with How to do blind baking place a sheet of parchment paper over the shortcrust and place ceramic balls (or dried legumes) on top . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 25 minutes (it is not advisable to use a fan-assisted oven). Once ready, take it out, let it cool slightly, and remove the balls, then let it cool in the pan. Add the stracciatella , spreading it evenly across the entire surface of the pie pan, using a spatula to level it.
Arrange the tomato slices next to each other in a concentric shape until the entire surface of the savory pie is filled ; decorate with basil leaves , and finally enjoy the savory tomato pie with stracciatella !
The tomato shortcrust pastry can be stored for 2-3 days covered with plastic wrap at room temperature. Freezing is not recommended.
The savory tomato pie with stracciatella, once filled and cooked, should be consumed immediately, within a maximum of 2 or 3 hours.
Freezing is not recommended.
Why use triple concentrated tomato paste? You can use it for dishes where you want to enhance the taste and bright and vivid color of the tomato.
Remember that stracciatella tends to be liquid: for a thicker and firmer consistency, simply let it drain over a strainer placed in a small bowl.
When serving the savory tomato pie, after cutting it, use a spatula to prevent the liquid filling from spilling. The tomato paste in the dough, besides giving the strong tomato taste to the shortcrust, colors the dough to create a cheerful contrast of colors in your savory pie.

