name:
Spicy stew with peas and potatoes
ingredients:
Veal: 1.5lbs(650 g)- pulp
Potatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Frozen peas: 1cup(150 g)
Tomato purée: 2.1cups(500 g)
Water: 0.85cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Green Peperoncino: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the spicy stew with peas and potatoes, start by removing the fat from the veal meat present on the tendons , then with a sharp knife, trim the excess fat from the tissues . Cut the meat into three parts : in this case, you might position the piece of meat lengthwise on the cutting board.
Then cut in the opposite direction (horizontally) to obtain cubes of about 1 inch . Wash the potatoes thoroughly under running water, dry them, peel them , then cut them into chunks just as you did with the veal meat.
Set the potato chunks aside and heat the oil in a large saucepan ; as soon as the oil is hot, add the meat cubes .
Brown the meat pieces over high heat first on one side and then on the other , turning them with kitchen tongs for even cooking, so as to avoid piercing the meat with a fork and letting the juices escape. Once the cubes are well browned, add the diced potatoes , then the tomato puree
and finally add the water to extend the cooking time . At this point, cover with a lid, lower the heat, and cook for 1 hour and 30 minutes . After the required time, add the chili powder
then the frozen peas and let it cook for another 20 minutes, stirring occasionally . Adjust salt and possibly pepper, then serve your spicy stew with peas and potatoes hot .
Store the spicy stew with peas and potatoes in the refrigerator for up to 5 days in an airtight container.
Use tomato puree for recipes that require long cooking times and when you want to achieve a creamy and smooth result without seeds or chunks. For this cooking, choose yellow potatoes, which have slightly firmer flesh and are perfect for long cooking.

