name:
Rigatoni with pajata
ingredients:
Rigatoni: 11.3oz(320 g)
Pagliata: 1.1lbs(500 g)- calf
Tomato purée: 2cups(500 g)
White onions: 1.1oz(30 g)
Celery: 1.75oz(50 g)
Garlic: 0.5oz(15 g)
White wine: ¾cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Coarse salt: 1 ½tsp(10 g)
Green Peperoncino: 1tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 h 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare rigatoni with pajata, first take care of the sauce, starting with the How to make the soffritto by cleaning the onion and cutting it first vertically and then horizontally : this way, thanks to the crisscross cuts, you'll be able to chop it as finely as possible ; then move on to the celery, which you will cut into strips
and then into small pieces . In a large saucepan, pour in some oil along with the minced onion and celery , also add the clove of garlic in its skin (i.e., without peeling it) and let it flavor for a few minutes over low heat, stirring continuously.
After carefully washing the pajata without breaking it, already peeled and tied by the butcher, add it to the pot, letting it sauté for 10 minutes , then deglaze with white wine and let it dry, remembering to remove the garlic .
When the liquid has completely evaporated, add the tomato puree , coarse salt , and chili pepper .
and cover with a lid , letting it cook for about 2 hours over low heat, stirring occasionally; only if necessary, you can add a bit of water. When the pajata is near the end of cooking, move on to the pasta, which you will drop in plenty of boiling salted water ; once ready, drain it and pour it directly into the cooking pot .
Then give a brief high flame to flavor the pasta and if needed, adjust the salt ; then serve your rigatoni with pajata while still hot !
It is recommended to consume rigatoni with pajata immediately. Once cooked, pajata can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days at most, covered with plastic wrap.
You can serve rigatoni with pajata by adding a generous sprinkle of grated pecorino cheese.
The pajata, in Roman dialect pajata, is the veal intestine that is carefully cleaned by butchers before being sold. Inside it contains chyme, which is not removed, as it provides creaminess and flavor. Even in show business, rigatoni alla pajata has played important roles, starting from the famous Alberto Sordi film titled "Il Marchese del Grillo" to a song titled "Pajata Rap," sung by Fiorello and Gigi Sabani.

