name:
Rhubarb Tart
ingredients:
Rhubarb: 1.5lbs(700 g)- (stalks)
Strawberries: 2cups(300 g)
Sugar: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Potato starch: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Egg yolks: 4
Butter: 9oz(250 g)- (cold from the fridge)
Lemon peel: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + 2-3 hours of resting time for strawberries and rhubarb

instructions:
To prepare the rhubarb tart, start by tackling the filling: clean the rhubarb, removing the leaves and strings as if it were celery. Cut the rhubarb stalk into chunks , then clean the strawberries and cut them into quarters . Combine strawberries and rhubarb in a bowl ,
add the sugar and mix well , then cover with plastic wrap and let rest for 2-3 hours, allowing the rhubarb to release its liquid.
After the necessary time, transfer the strawberries and rhubarb to a pot and cook for 10 minutes over medium heat, then for another 50-60 minutes over low heat. At this point, dissolve the potato starch in the jam and keep the mixture on the heat until it reaches 226°F (you can check the temperature with a kitchen thermometer) .
When the rhubarb jam is ready, transfer it to a bowl to cool . Meanwhile, prepare the Shortcrust pastry : in the mixer, combine the flour and cold butter from the refrigerator, cut into pieces . Blend everything to obtain a sandy-looking mixture, then pour it onto the work surface, forming the classic fountain shape, and add the powdered sugar .
Also incorporate the grated lemon zest and the egg yolks , and knead briefly , just enough to make the dough compact. Form a block, wrap it with plastic wrap, and let it firm up in the fridge for 30 minutes. After the necessary time, roll out the dough with a rolling pin to a thickness of about 0.4 inches .
With the rolling pin, spread it inside the buttered and floured 10-inch diameter pan, pressing it gently onto the base and edges with your fingers . With a small knife, remove the excess dough, saving it, and prick the base of the tart with the tines of a fork . Knead the excess dough again, roll it out, and use a pastry cutter to cut strips for decoration.
Pour the strawberry and rhubarb jam inside the shortcrust base and finish by arranging the pastry strips on the surface of the cake to form diamonds. Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 40 minutes (or at 320°F for 30 minutes if using a fan oven), then take out your rhubarb tart and let it cool before removing it from the pan!
The rhubarb tart can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for up to 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you wish, you can extend the resting time of the rhubarb and strawberries with sugar for up to the entire night. And if you want to add an extra touch to your jam, a pinch of ginger will make it more aromatic and slightly spicy!

