name:
How to clean cuttlefish
ingredients:
Octopi: 2.2lbs(1 kg)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
First, before starting to clean the cuttlefish, wear latex gloves. Take your cuttlefish and, by applying slight pressure with your fingers on the mollusk's belly, locate the bone. Then, with a knife, make a crosswise cut to remove it (2-3).
With your fingers, spread the membrane you have incised : you should locate the ink sac (not present in all cuttlefish). Very gently extract the sac containing the ink by holding it with your fingers without squeezing it, to avoid bursting it and thus preventing ink spillage (5-6). Once the sac containing the cuttlefish ink is extracted, place it in a small bowl and ensure it remains moist.
Separate the head from the body of the cuttlefish: hold the latter with one hand and with the other pull away the tentacle part (7-8). Then, lay the cuttlefish on the cutting board to flatten it as much as possible and, still with your hands, remove the small internal appendages from the body of the cuttlefish .
Turn it over and make a small incision, so as to remove the skin by pulling it off with your hands . At this point, the body part is now clean. Then move on to the head. Grab the head of the cuttlefish with one hand and with the other pull out the intestines, recognizable by their softer and more viscous texture . Remove the "beak" or "rostrum", located at the center of the tentacles, by pressing with your thumbs on the underside of the beak to push it upwards and thus facilitating its identification and extraction.
With a small knife, also remove the eyes by cutting around the bulb in a circular manner , then remove them . Rinse your cuttlefish well and use them for cooking .
Once your cuttlefish are cleaned, you can store them in the refrigerator for 1 day in a glass container covered with plastic wrap. Alternatively, you can freeze them for about 1 month, inside freezer bags, only if you have used fresh and not thawed cuttlefish.
Always wear gloves because cuttlefish ink is very resistant and will not easily wash off the skin.
There are different varieties of cuttlefish: those from the Mediterranean and those from the Atlantic Ocean, which differ in taste and meat consistency. Additionally, the coloring of cuttlefish varies from male to female specimens.


