name:
Meatballs in sesame crust
ingredients:
Pork: 0.67lb(300 g)- minced
Beef: 0.7lb(300 g)- ground
Whole grain bread: 2.3oz(65 g)- crumb
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to grate)
Sesame seeds: 17tsp(50 g)
Black sesame seeds: 2.8tbsp(25 g)
Eggs: 1
Dill: 1pinch- fresh
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 38 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the sesame crusted meatballs, cut the whole wheat bread crumb into cubes, removing the outer crust, and crumble it in a food processor with blades (1-2). Finely chop the dill and set it aside .
In a large bowl, pour the ground pork and beef , mixing them with your hands; add the crumbled bread , then the grated cheese .
Season the mixture with the chopped dill , then incorporate the egg and adjust the salt .
Pepper to taste and mix with your hands until you get a homogeneous mixture . At this point, shape the mixture into meatballs of about 0.7 oz each , and continue this way until the mixture is used up: with our quantities, you should get 38 meatballs.
Pour the white sesame seeds into a tray and mix them with the black sesame seeds carefully . Roll the meatballs in the sesame, making sure it adheres well to the meat .
Continue this way with all the remaining meatballs and, once finished, arrange them side by side on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Bake the meatballs in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 25 minutes (or in a fan oven at 320°F for about 15-20 minutes), optionally drizzling them with a little oil. After the necessary time, remove and enjoy your sesame-crusted meatballs hot .
It is possible to store the sesame-crusted meatballs in the fridge, placed in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap, for a maximum of 2 days. If fresh ingredients were used, freezing is possible before rolling the meatballs in the sesame coating.
For an extra touch of flavor, you can season the mixture with thyme, parsley, or marjoram, or use pecorino cheese instead of grated Grana!

