name:
Fried asparagus with sauce
ingredients:
Asparagus: 9oz(250 g)
Breadcrumbs: ¾cup(100 g)
Eggs: 2
Milk: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Vegetable oil: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Garlic: 4tsp(20 g)
Lemon juice: 1.1oz(30 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Vegetable oil: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the fried asparagus with sauce, first start by making the accompanying aioli sauce. Cut the garlic cloves in half and remove the central part (the germ) with the help of a small knife . Then squeeze the lemon juice and strain it .
Place the garlic and lemon juice in an immersion blender cup and blend to finely chop the garlic. Add the salt and pepper .
Add the room-temperature egg yolks , continuing to blend, and once they are well combined, pour in the oil slowly and in a thin stream while still blending , until you achieve a thick sauce . To prevent the sauce from separating, avoid adding too much oil at once, which would prevent proper emulsification with the yolk. Place your sauce in a small bowl and store it in the refrigerator.
In the meantime, focus on the cleaning of the asparagus. Peel them from top to bottom until the stem turns white , then cut off the white part, which is the hardest, with a knife . In a separate small bowl, crack the eggs and beat them together with the milk .
Rinse the asparagus well, pat them dry with a kitchen cloth, and dip them first in the egg beaten with milk , then in the breadcrumbs , and again in the egg .
Complete the double breading by finally passing the asparagus in the breadcrumbs one last time . Then heat the oil to a temperature of 356°F (you can measure the temperature with a kitchen thermometer), immerse the asparagus , and fry them until they are golden brown. Drain the asparagus well and place them on a plate with a paper towel to remove any excess oil. Serve the fried asparagus still hot, accompanied by the aioli sauce .
Consume the fried asparagus immediately after preparation.
You can store the aioli sauce in a glass container for up to 3 days in the refrigerator.
Instead of aioli sauce, try making mayonnaise flavored with the addition of mint or thyme!

