name:
Cottage cheese
ingredients:
Skim milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
White wine vinegar: 3 ½tsp(17 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus 1 hour of resting time

instructions:
To prepare cottage cheese, pour the milk into a pot , add the salt , and cook over medium heat for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent a film from forming on the surface .
When the milk reaches a boil, turn off the heat and add the vinegar , stir for thirty seconds, and then cover the pot with a lid , letting it rest for 30 minutes. Bring the mixture back to a boil, this time on high heat, stirring often: it will take about 10 minutes, and you will notice the milk coagulating .
Turn off the heat and cover the pot again with the lid, allowing it to rest for another 30 minutes . With a ladle, collect the cottage cheese and place it in a container where you have placed sterile gauze or a tightly woven linen towel .
Let it drain and then squeeze the gauze to remove the excess liquid . If you find that the mixture is too dry, add a few tablespoons of whey and finally serve the cottage cheese in small bowls garnished, for example, with basil or cherry tomatoes .
The cottage cheese can be stored in the refrigerator for about 2-3 days covered with plastic wrap; if they dry out too much, add more whey, milk, or cream to revive them.
If you wish, you can scent the cottage cheese by adding thyme or chives leaves when you strain them.
For a sweet version, you can try them with fruit and a drizzle of honey; you'll taste how good it is! If you're looking for ideas to use them in cooking, try our recipe for Vegetarian Stuffed Artichokes .
Cottage cheese, known in Italian as 'fiocchi di latte,' was originally produced in central Europe as early as the second half of the 1800s, but it was only in the early 20th century that it was imported into the United States where it quickly became very popular. They are called cottage cheese because they were made in cottages using large tubs for cooking. Today, they are a must for those who like to stay in shape, as they are low in fats and carbohydrates and are suitable for practically every course: to season first courses, preferably cold, or as a light second dish perhaps accompanied by vegetables, on bread, or for breakfast and snack garnished with fresh or dried fruit.

