name:
Chocolate cake with sour cream
ingredients:
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Eggs: 3- (medium)
Type 00 flour: 2 ⅛cups(270 g)
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp(10 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(240 g)
Natural plain yogurt: ¼cup(60 g)- whole

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for the sour cream (24 hours)

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate and sour cream cake, first, if you prefer, you can make the How to make sour cream at home the day before making the cake (alternatively, you'll need 10.5 oz of sour cream to make the cake): pour the liquid cream into a bowl . Then add the yogurt and gently mix with a whisk until all the ingredients are combined .
Cover the bowl with a clean cloth or a cheesecloth and let it rest at room temperature for 24 hours. At this point, you can proceed with making the cake: coarsely chop the chocolate and melt it in a double boiler .
Stir the chocolate with a spatula and continue until it is melted . Then pour the eggs into a bowl , add the sugar, and whisk everything together until the mixture is light and fluffy.
Then add the sour cream prepared earlier, which you will have stirred with a spoon before using it in the recipe ; once incorporated, add the melted and cooled chocolate ; mix everything thoroughly. In a separate bowl, sift the flour
and the baking powder ; then gradually incorporate the two powders into the rest of the mixture, mixing well with a whisk until smooth and lump-free . Then butter and line a 9-inch cake pan with parchment paper, then pour the batter inside .
Use a spatula to smooth the surface to make it even . Then bake the chocolate sour cream cake in a preheated static oven at 355°F for 55-60 minutes (if using a convection oven, at 320°F for 45-50 minutes), checking the doneness with a toothpick. Remove from the oven, let it cool slightly, and then unmold the cake, allowing it to cool completely on a wire rack . Before serving, if desired, dust with powdered sugar !
You can store the chocolate and sour cream cake for 3-4 days under a glass dome. It can be frozen once fully cooked and cooled.
You can flavor the cake batter with seeds from a vanilla bean, lemon, and orange zest. Moreover, if you don't have time to prepare the sour cream, you can easily use the ready-made one: you'll need 10.5 oz!

