name:
Spelt muffins
ingredients:
Eggs: 4
Spelt flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Whole cane sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Soy yogurt: 1cup(250 g)- plain
Vegetable oil: 2 ¾tbsp(40 g)
Orange peel: 1- (untreated)
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)
Soy milk: 0.1cup(30 g)
Blueberries: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)- fresh
Lactose-free Yogurt: ½cup(100 g)- plain
Lactose free fresh cream: ½cup(125 g)
Powdered sugar: ¼cup(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the spelt muffins, start by making the batter. In a large bowl, place the eggs with the brown sugar and whisk with electric beaters until foamy . Don't worry if the eggs remain a bit more liquid than usual due to the brown sugar; it is completely normal. Now add the soy yogurt to the mixture and mix with a spatula.
Add the vegetable oil and continue mixing . Grate the orange zest . Sift the spelt flour into the bowl .
Mix well with a circular motion, from bottom to top . At this point, dissolve the yeast in a large bowl of soy milk ; in just a few moments, it will turn into a very voluminous foam .
Then add it to the rest of the batter . Gently fold in the blueberries, keeping some aside to distribute later on the muffin tops . Mix the batter again, transfer it to a disposable piping bag without a nozzle, and distribute it into muffin cups of 2.75 inches in diameter placed inside muffin molds: each mold should be filled ¾ of the way .
Now distribute the previously set aside blueberries on your spelt muffins . Bake the muffins in a preheated static oven at 350°F and cook them for 20-25 minutes until they are puffed and golden (if using a convection oven, 320°F for about 15 minutes) . Now move on to preparing the yogurt mousse as an accompaniment: in a bowl, place the lactose-free cream and whip it with electric beaters , then set it aside.
In a second bowl, place the yogurt, add the powdered sugar , and mix thoroughly. Now fold the whipped cream into the yogurt cream, one spoonful at a time . Mix gently so as not to deflate the mixture: the lactose-free yogurt mousse is ready to accompany your spelt muffins !
Spelt muffins can be stored for 2-3 days in an airtight bag. They can be frozen after baking if all the ingredients used are fresh.

