name:
Spicy grilled beef with pilaf rice and spring vegetables
ingredients:
Beef filet: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (4 filets of 5.3 oz each)
Ketchup: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(45 g)
Yellow mustard powder: 0.2oz(5 g)
Rosemary: 4 ½tsp(3 g)
Thyme: ½tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Red peppers: 1.1cups(160 g)
Zucchini: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Eggplant: 5.3oz(150 g)
Leeks: 1cup(100 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1cup(150 g)
Green olives: 1.8oz(50 g)- pitted
Sugar: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
White wine vinegar: 1 ¾tbsp(25 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Basmati rice: 1.67cups(300 g)
Shallot: 1.1oz(30 g)
Vegetable broth: 2 ¾cups(660 g)
Cloves: 5

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Note +the time for marinating

instructions:
To prepare the spicy grilled beef with pilaf rice and spring vegetables, start with marinating the beef. Finely chop the herbs, then place the fillets in a baking dish; pour the oil , the mustard, and the herb mixture , distributing the flavors evenly over the meat .
Turn the meat so that it absorbs the flavors from both sides , then season with salt and pepper . Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least an hour.
Wash the vegetables under plenty of fresh running water; first, slice and then dice the eggplants into 0.5 cm cubes , placing the cubes you have obtained on a sieve ;
sprinkle with salt and place a weight on it so that the eggplant releases water. Cut the cherry tomatoes in half , then proceed to clean the peppers: after washing them, dry them with absorbent paper. Remove the top part, then with a knife remove the white filaments and the seeds inside ;
cut it in half and remove the white parts . Cut it into strips and cubes along with the zucchini.
Thinly slice the leek , then sauté it in a non-stick pan with a drizzle of oil for 5-6 minutes. Next, add the diced peppers, cooking for another 5 minutes over medium heat. Add the cherry tomatoes and cook for another 5 minutes. Finally, add the zucchini and cook again for 5 minutes .
Rinse the eggplants under running water and add them to the vegetables, cooking for 5 minutes . Season with salt and pepper, then add the pitted olives , the sugar
and the vinegar . Let the vinegar evaporate, then turn off the heat and set aside. Now take care of the Pilaf Rice put a pot with plenty of salted water on the heat for the Vegetable broth . Rinse the rice carefully under running water with the help of a strainer to lose the starch, then let it drain and dry (23-24).
In a small pot, melt the butter , add finely chopped shallots, and cook over low heat for about 15 minutes; add the cinnamon and cloves and stir for another two minutes. Add the rice and toast it.
Then add all the broth, already salted . Cover the pan with a lid (no steam should escape) and let it cook for at least 18-20 minutes over moderate heat until the broth is completely absorbed. Once cooked and well-dried, remove the pilaf rice from the heat, fluff it well with a fork and set aside. Take the fillets from the refrigerator and cook them on a hot grill for about 3-4 minutes per side ,
turning them with a spatula . When the meat is ready , plate your grilled beef with pilaf rice and spring vegetables and enjoy it .
It is recommended to consume the beef and pilaf rice immediately. You can store the vegetables in the refrigerator in an airtight container for a maximum of 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
For the marinade, try using paprika instead of mustard: it will be a flavor triumph!

