name:
Potato gnocchi with pesto, mussels, and clams
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Eggs: 1- (medium)
Fine salt: to taste
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste- (for dusting)
Basil: 1 ¼cup(25 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Pine nuts: 0.25oz(7 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)- (to be grated)
Pecorino cheese: 0.5oz(15 g)- (to grate)
Coarse salt: to taste
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tbsp(30 g)
Salt: 1pinch
Pepper: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 25 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the potato gnocchi with pesto, mussels, and clams, start with the preparation of the gnocchi. Wash the potatoes well to remove dirt. Take a pot with high sides, fill it with water, salt it, and bring it to a boil. Then, add the potatoes and let them boil for about 30-40 minutes depending on the size of the potatoes (you can halve the cooking time using a pressure cooker). Test them with the prongs of a fork to check their doneness. While still hot, peel them . Now take a large bowl and sift the flour into it .
Now, using a potato masher, mash the potatoes into the bowl and begin to knead. Then adjust the salt and add a beaten egg . Continue kneading vigorously with your hands until you obtain a homogeneous and soft dough .
Then, create logs about 0.4 inches thick with the dough . Using a dough scraper, cut small pieces about 0.4 inches from each log . Repeat the operation for the entire dough. Take a tray, place a clean cloth on it, sprinkle it with semolina, and lay the gnocchi on it gradually .
At this point, proceed to prepare the Genoese pesto (Pesto alla genovese) . Take the basil and clean the leaves, then put them in a mortar. Now take the garlic, peel it, and add it to the mortar with a few grains of coarse salt . Crush the basil leaves until a bright green liquid comes out. Then add the pine nuts and, while mixing, also add the grated Parmesan and Pecorino cheese. Finally, add the oil slowly while continuing to mix with the pestle . When you have obtained a creamy and homogeneous sauce, your pesto will be ready. If you don't have a mortar, you can use a blender, making sure to chill the blender cup in the refrigerator at least an hour before to cool it and be careful to turn on the blender intermittently so that the blades do not overheat.
Now proceed with the preparation of the shellfish. Start with the How to Clean and Open Mussels : rinse them under plenty of running water . Use a knife to remove encrustations and barnacles , then pull away the byssus, the beard you see coming out of the shells .
Now scrub with a new steel wool to remove any remaining impurities . Now take the clams. Tap them on a cutting board with the opening side down to check for sand (if they have sand you must discard them, as well as those with broken shells). Then take the clams and place them in a colander placed inside a bowl and rinse them to remove any remaining sand . The clams will be clean when you no longer see any more sand deposit.
Now that the shellfish are clean, take a high-sided non-stick pan. Add a drizzle of oil and brown a garlic clove for flavor. Then add the mussels and clams . Cover the pan with a lid and let the mussels and clams open up over a lively flame for a few minutes until the shellfish have opened.
Once opened, drain the shellfish with a colander placed over a bowl to filter the cooking juice and set it aside. Shell the shellfish, keeping a few aside for decorating your dish . Pour the mussels and clams with a bit of cooking liquid into a non-stick pan .
At this point, take a pot with high sides, pour in the water along with the remaining cooking liquid from the shellfish, and bring it to a boil. Add the gnocchi, if you prefer using a slotted spoon . When the gnocchi rise to the surface of the water, they are ready, and you can drain them using a slotted spoon to remove the cooking water. Then add them to the pan where you placed the shellfish .
Also add the pesto you set aside to the pan , adjust the salt and pepper . Over low heat for 2-3 minutes, mix the ingredients well, combining them with the help of a wooden spoon or spatula, and your dish is ready . Then decorate the dish with the shellfish with shells you set aside and serve these wonderful potato gnocchi with pesto, mussels, and clams!
It is recommended to consume the potato gnocchi with pesto, mussels, and clams immediately after cooking. It is not recommended to freeze the cooked dish.
You can freeze the gnocchi while still raw, well spaced on a tray. Once solidified, you can transfer them into a freezer bag. To use them, submerge them directly in boiling water while still frozen.
You can store freshly made pesto in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in an airtight container, making sure to cover the sauce with a layer of oil. It is possible to freeze it in small jars and then thaw it in the refrigerator or at room temperature.
To store fresh and already cleaned mussels, place them in a bowl with fresh water until ready to use; they can last up to a maximum of 8 hours.
To store cleaned clams, you can keep them in the refrigerator in a bowl full of water or wrapped in a damp cloth.
These tasty potato gnocchi with pesto, mussels, and clams can become a real hit in your kitchen by adding a few seeds of fresh chili pepper, which will give a decisive touch to this rich dish. The extra tip? Flambé the shellfish while cooking with a small glass of cognac: your guests will be impressed!

