name:
Homemade Primosale
ingredients:
Whole milk: 19cups(4.5 l)- fresh pasteurized
Natural plain yogurt: 0.4cup(100 g)- whole
Rennet: ¾tsp(3.5 g)- liquid
Fine salt: 12 ¼tsp(70 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 4 h 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare homemade primosale, start by pouring the milk into a pot and let it gradually reach a temperature of 108°F, over medium heat , then turn off the heat and add the yogurt
stir , also add the salt and stir well with the whisk so that it dissolves completely .
At this point, let the mixture cool to 100°F and then pour in the rennet , stir briefly
and cover with a lid letting it rest for 50 minutes . After this time, you will notice that the mixture has set, so proceed with the first cut of the curd that has formed. Insert the blade of a rather long knife into the mixture obtained ,
to make deep vertical incisions , then horizontal ones to obtain squares about 1.5 inches per side . Wait 10-15 minutes before cutting the squares, previously obtained, in half: this will create smaller squares of approximately 1 inch per side .
As before, you will need to cut the squares perpendicularly and let them rest for 15-20 minutes then collect the curd with the molds (the special cheese molds) with a diameter of 5 inches and a depth of 3 inches ; help yourself by pressing the curd with your hands to remove a good part of the whey .
Fill the molds in several steps , always pressing with your fingers to remove as much whey as possible : with the obtained curd, you will fill 2 molds with a diameter of 5 inches and a height of 3 inches . Once filled and well pressed, wait 15 minutes;
then flip the primosale onto your hand and put it back in the mold but on the other side . Let it rest for another 15 minutes and then repeat the flipping operation . If you notice that the cheese is still soft, let it rest as long as needed to coagulate properly.
Repeat the flipping operation 2 more times including the resting times . Finally, cover the molds with film and put them in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours. After the necessary time, when they are firm, you can remove the film and consume the homemade primosale immediately .
Primosale should be stored in the refrigerator, covered, for a maximum of 3-4 days.
A suggestion for the more indulgent: you can make the homemade primosale even more special by adding, for example, olives, chili peppers, or aromatic herbs! To do this, you just need to add your spices while inserting the curd into the molds. Oh, I almost forgot! Another variation? Try adding a bit of salt on the surface! There are so many ways to be creative, right?

