name:
Daisy Flower Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 3- (medium, at room temperature)
Egg yolks: 10- (at room temperature)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Potato starch: ¾cup(100 g)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Powdered sugar: 4.8cups(600 g)
Water: (80 g)
Food coloring: 1drop- liquids, yellow color
Food coloring: to taste- powdered, red or orange color

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time

instructions:
To prepare the daisy flower cake, start by adding eggs and room temperature egg yolks to a mixer. Then, add the sugar and begin to beat with the whisks for at least 15 minutes until you get a light and frothy mixture . Sift flour and potato starch into a separate high-sided bowl .
Then, extract the seeds from the vanilla bean by scraping it with a small knife . Add the vanilla bean seeds to the mixture in the mixer and then add the sifted flours to the mixer .
Using a spatula, mix the ingredients with a motion from bottom to top to combine them uniformly . Melt the butter in the microwave on high power for about 45-50 seconds. The butter should reach a temperature of 95°F-104°F. Add it gradually and mix all the ingredients well from bottom to top to obtain a homogeneous and dense mixture .
Then pour the obtained mixture into a 9.5-inch diameter flower-shaped cake pan placed on a baking sheet. Bake in a preheated static oven at 347°F for 45 minutes (or at 311°F for 35 minutes if using a convection oven). Remove the flower cake from the oven and let it cool on a rack still in the pan . Then, carefully apply light pressure on the bottom of each part of the cake to remove it from the pan .
Place the pieces removed from the pan on the rack . At this point, take a small bowl and pour in the powdered sugar. Add the water and use a spatula to mix the ingredients well to obtain a smooth and lump-free mixture .
Pour a small amount of the mixture into another bowl and add a drop of yellow liquid food coloring . Mix the liquid coloring evenly to make the color uniform . Now proceed with decorating your daisy flower cake. First of all, place the rack with the cake on a tray to collect any glaze that may drip during the coverage of the cake. Using a spoon, pour the white glaze over the petals of the cake to completely cover the petals .
Using a spoon, pour the yellow glaze over the central part of the flower cake and smooth the glaze across the entire length of the cake . Brush additional red or orange powdered food coloring when the glaze is still wet to give a more intense color to the central part of the cake . And here the daisy flower cake is ready to be enjoyed !
You can store the daisy flower cake under a glass dome for up to 2-3 days.
You can also freeze it once baked.
This soft and crumbly cake is characterized by its light and delicate taste, but if you want to enrich this dough, you can grate the zest of an untreated lemon.
For children's snacks, have fun coloring the glaze in rainbow colors for a tasty and fun snack!

