name:
Salmon Trout Stuffed Ravioli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1cup(210 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 0.625cup(100 g)
Eggs: 3
Salmon trout: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: 1.3cups(300 g)
Thyme: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: ½tbsp(10 g)
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: 2.1oz(60 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste- (to grate)
Tomatoes: 2.8cups(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tbsp(30 g)
Basil: 5leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 50 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the salmon trout stuffed ravioli, start by making the pasta. Pour the two flours into a bowl, add the lightly beaten eggs , and start kneading with your hands . Once all the ingredients are combined, transfer the mixture to a pastry board and work it until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough. At this point, form a ball , wrap it in plastic wrap, and let it rest for at least 30 minutes in a cool, dry place.
In the meantime, handle the trout fillets, cut into the back to separate the fillets , then remove the bones with tweezers , and using a knife, also gently remove the skin .
Alternatively, you could choose to buy ready-made trout fillets. Once done, proceed to cut the fillets into small cubes . Then, in a pan, pour the oil and add the garlic, let it brown over low heat and also add the salmon trout cubes and the thyme leaves . Let cook for about 3-4 minutes without stirring, but only shaking the pan, then salt, pepper, and deglaze with white wine . Once all the wine has evaporated, turn off the heat and let it cool.
In a bowl, combine the ricotta with nutmeg , salt, pepper, thyme, and the grated zest of one lemon ; mix the mixture well , transfer it into a pastry bag, and place it in the refrigerator.
At this point, take the dough and roll it out with the machine until the penultimate number and place the sheets on a surface. Take the ricotta filling, set aside previously, and start placing small mounds of it on the pasta, spacing them about 1-1.5 inches apart , then place a few cooked salmon trout cubes on top (about 3 per ravioli) .
Once done, spray the uncovered parts of the pasta with water , this will help you seal the ravioli well (alternatively, you can also use a brush dipped in water and brush the edges of the sheet). Take another sheet and place it on top of the other , pressing near the filling to remove the air left inside the ravioli .
Take a 2.5-inch pastry cutter and cut out your ravioli , then seal the edges well with your fingers . Continue this way until you have used up all the pasta and filling; the leftover pasta can be kneaded and rolled out again after letting it rest. Place your ravioli on a baking tray with parchment paper or on a surface with a lightly floured kitchen towel .
Once the ravioli are finished, start preparing the sauce. Wash the cherry tomatoes well and cut them in half , then pour them into a large pan with a drizzle of oil and garlic , add the basil leaves and let cook for about 15-20 minutes over low heat, then salt and pepper .
Once the sauce is cooked, cook your ravioli in plenty of boiling water for about 2-3 minutes , then drain them, remove the garlic from the freshly prepared sauce, and add the ravioli inside . Sauté your salmon trout stuffed ravioli and serve immediately !
It is advisable to consume the salmon trout stuffed ravioli as soon as they are prepared. If you have used all fresh ingredients, you can freeze your ravioli raw. For freezing, you can place the tray with the ravioli in the freezer to harden for a couple of hours. Once well hardened, place them in freezer bags, preferably already portioned, and return them to the freezer. When you need to use them, boil them directly from frozen in boiling water and proceed as per the recipe.
Instead of sheep's ricotta, try using cow's ricotta and replace the lemon with the zest of a lime!

