name:
Burnt Wheat Focaccia Stuffed
ingredients:
Burnt wheat flour: 2cups(250 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 4 ¾cups(750 g)
Water: 3.3cups(800 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: 4 ½tsp(25 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 14.1oz(400 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 3.3cups(200 g)
Baked black olives: ½cup(100 g)- pitted
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: High
Note + about 12 hours of leavening

instructions:
To prepare the burnt wheat focaccia stuffed with olives and sun-dried tomatoes, start with the focaccia dough. In the stand mixer with the hook attachment, pour in the two types of flour and add the yeast and water , reserving just enough to dissolve the salt. Begin mixing.
Then pour into the mixer the salt dissolved in water and 3.5 tablespoons of oil gradually . Continue mixing for about 10 minutes .
After this time, the dough will still be very soft and will not come off the sides of the mixer: with the help of a dough scraper, overturn the dough onto the well-oiled work surface and work it by spreading it on the surface and then folding it onto itself first horizontally and then vertically , until you form a bundle.
Turn the dough bundle smooth side up and transfer it to an oil-greased bowl, and cover with plastic wrap . Let it rise at a temperature of 82°F for 1 hour, then transfer it to the fridge overnight. After the rising time, the dough will have puffed up nicely . Keep it at room temperature for a couple of hours before using it.
After the time has passed, with the help of a dough scraper, divide the dough into two parts, one slightly larger than the other . Brush oil onto the baking sheet that will hold your focaccia , take the larger half and transfer it onto the oiled sheet .
Oil your hands as well and spread the base of the focaccia by pressing the dough with your fingers towards the edges of the sheet , until it covers it. Distribute the sun-dried tomatoes on the spread base .
Cut the caciocavallo cheese into cubes of about 1/2 inch and distribute them on the focaccia . Lastly, add the pitted olives .
Now take the smaller half of the dough that you set aside. On the oil-greased work surface, spread the dough with your hands , and once stretched, lift it and lay it on the sheet , gently spreading it to cover the filling .
Drizzle a little oil (the remaining 2 teaspoons) over the surface of your focaccia and bake it for 40 minutes in a static oven preheated to 374°F. Remove the burnt wheat focaccia stuffed with olives and sun-dried tomatoes from the oven and cut it immediately into squares !
The burnt wheat focaccia should be cut into squares just out of the oven. It can be stored in the fridge well covered for up to 2 days: remember to heat it in the oven before enjoying. It can be frozen.
If you prefer to soften the intense flavor of the burnt wheat focaccia stuffed with olives and sun-dried tomatoes, you can replace the caciocavallo cheese with pizza mozzarella cubes. The beauty of fillings is that you can enclose the most varied fillings within the dough: follow your taste, and you won't go wrong!

