name:
Burnt wheat focaccia with cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Burnt wheat flour: 1cup(125 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 2.3cups(375 g)
Potatoes: 0.5lb(200 g)
Fine salt: 4 ½tsp(25 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)
Water: 1.7cups(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Pomodori di Pachino (cherry tomatoes): 2cups(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Oregano: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note more than 16 hours of leavening

instructions:
To prepare the burnt wheat focaccia with cherry tomatoes, first boil the potatoes in salted water for about 20 minutes , the cooking time depends on the size of the potatoes, if when pierced with a fork the potato slides off easily, they are ready. At this point, peel them , mash them with a potato masher and let them cool slightly.
Meanwhile, in a stand mixer, pour the remilled durum wheat flour, the burnt wheat flour , the dry yeast and start the mixer with the hook attachment, pouring almost all the water, at room temperature, gradually , keeping aside about 50 grams.
Once the dough has reached a solid consistency, add the salt dissolved in the previously reserved water , then add the oil and knead for about 10 minutes. The dough will be very soft, but do not worry if it doesn't detach from the bowl, the important thing is that it is well kneaded .
At this point, add the previously mashed and now lukewarm potatoes , let the mixer run for another couple of minutes and with the help of a bench scraper, turn the dough out onto a greased work surface .
Then give it some reinforcement folds by bringing the outer parts of the dough towards the center . Form a ball and place it in a large bowl , cover everything with plastic wrap, then let it rise for about 1 hour in the oven with only the light on, after which place it in the refrigerator and let it rise overnight.
The next morning, take it out of the refrigerator and leave it again at room temperature for about 2 hours . Then, with the help of a bench scraper, turn it out again onto a greased work surface and give it some more folds . Form a ball and place it on an oiled baking pan .
With oiled hands, stretch the dough by pressing with your fingers until it covers the entire pan . Sprinkle the focaccia with oil , then wash the cherry tomatoes well and cut them in half .
Place them all over the focaccia, with the skin side up and let rise again for an hour at room temperature. Finally, add the oregano and salt and bake in a preheated ventilated oven for about 40 minutes at 375°F .
The burnt wheat focaccia with cherry tomatoes should be served freshly baked. It keeps in the fridge well covered for up to 2 days: remember to warm it in the oven before enjoying it. It can be frozen once cooked.
The burnt wheat focaccia with cherry tomatoes has little yeast, so a slow rise is necessary. If you want to skip the step in the refrigerator, you can leave your dough, still covered, at room temperature for about 4-5 hours, or until it has doubled in volume.
Burnt wheat flour originates from the rural tradition of collecting wheat grains left on the ground after the harvest and the burning of stubble. The wheat grains were collected, ground, and mixed with a part of white flour. When buying flour became easier for farmers, burnt wheat disappeared from consumption. Nowadays it is spreading again, although it is currently produced differently from the original, namely by taking advantage of toasting and not complete burning of the grain. However, what is obtained is still a flour with a very particular taste and dark color that characterizes the finished product.

