name:
Almond pancakes with orange cream
ingredients:
Eggs: 2- (medium)
Sugar: 3 ¼tbsp(40 g)
Almond flour: 4tbsp(25 g)
Type 00 flour: 3.5oz(100 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(4 g)
Whole milk: 0.67cup(150 g)
Almond flavoring: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Whole milk: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Orange peel: 2
Egg yolks: 3
Sugar: 6tbsp(75 g)
Potato starch: 2tbsp(15 g)
Almond slices: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 14 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + resting time for the batter: 30 minutes and 15 minutes for infusing the cream

instructions:
To prepare the almond pancakes with orange cream, start by preparing the batter: separate the yolks from the whites of 2 room temperature eggs into two different high-sided bowls . Add the sugar to the yolks and mix the ingredients well with a hand whisk. Once well combined, add the almond flavoring .
Then sift the flour and baking powder and add them to the mixture, taking care to mix the ingredients well to make the mixture smooth and lump-free . Then add the milk and almond flour . Continue to mix the ingredients well using a hand whisk. Finally, add a pinch of salt and set the mixture aside.
Now take the bowl where you placed the egg whites and beat them until stiff with electric beaters . With a hand whisk, gently fold the beaten egg whites into the batter , stirring gently from top to bottom. You should obtain a smooth and homogeneous batter . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator to rest for at least 30 minutes.
At this point, proceed to prepare the orange cream. Remove the peel from the oranges, using a small knife and taking care to take only the outer zest and not the white part . Then take a high-sided saucepan and pour in the milk. Then add the orange peels and bring to a boil. When the milk reaches a boil, turn off the heat and let the peels infuse for at least 15 minutes. Then separate the yolks from the whites and pour the yolks into a bowl, add the granulated sugar and mix the ingredients well with a hand whisk .
Now sift the potato starch and add it to the mixture . Once well combined, pour in the orange-flavored milk, taking care to strain it with a sieve to remove the zest . Then return the mixture to the saucepan over low heat, stirring to thicken the cream .
Once it comes back to a boil, wait about 3-4 minutes for the cream to thicken and take on a more intense color . Then transfer the cream to a low, wide bowl, cover with plastic wrap in contact with the surface, and let cool first at room temperature and then in the refrigerator. Meanwhile, heat a large non-stick pan. Take the pancake batter, and using a ladle or spoon, place a small amount onto the pan, spreading it to create a circle about 4 inches in diameter (17-18): create 1 or 2 pancakes at a time.
Wait a few minutes for the base to set, then using a spatula, flip the pancake to the other side for even cooking . A light golden crust should form on the surface of the pancakes . It will take about 2-3 minutes per side. As you make them, transfer the ready pancakes to a plate. Then repeat the operation until you finish the batter; with the given amounts, you will obtain about 14 pancakes. Now serve the almond pancakes while still hot, either with a side of orange cream or by drizzling a little of the cream over them and decorating with slivered almonds as desired!
Cooked pancakes can be stored for 2-3 days in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, and reheated in a pan before serving.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can store the pancake batter for up to 12 hours in the fridge, covered with plastic wrap.
The orange cream can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap in contact with the surface, for up to 1 or 2 days.
To avoid a too-bitter orange cream while obtaining the orange peel, be sure to only get the outer part of the zest, avoiding the white part which is the most bitter in taste.

