name:
Gluten-free marble bundt cake
ingredients:
Gluten free rice flour: 1 ¾cup(230 g)
Gluten free  potato starch: 0.6cup(75 g)
Gluten free cornstarch: 0.6cup(75 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Honey: 2 ½tbsp(50 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 14.7tbsp(200 g)
Rice milk: 0.6cup(150 g)
Eggs: 4- (medium)
Gluten free powdered yeast for sweets: 2.9tsp(12 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Gluten free unsweetened cocoa powder: ¼cup(30 g)
Fine salt: 0.7tsp(4 g)
Xantana: 0.6tsp(3 g)
Vegetable margarine: to taste
Gluten free rice flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the gluten-free marble bundt cake, start by placing the eggs at room temperature, together with the honey , sugar, and salt in the stand mixer bowl , then turn it on at medium speed. Also add the seeds from the vanilla bean and continue whipping the mixture for about 10 minutes.
Once the eggs have become light and fluffy, with the mixer still running, slowly add both the milk and the oil , very slowly, then turn off the machine. At this point, in a bowl, combine 200 grams of rice flour (the remaining 30 grams will be used later), potato starch, corn starch, baking powder, and xanthan gum .
Then gradually add the flour mix, sifting it, to the whipped egg mixture and mix gradually with a whisk . Divide the batter into two equal parts, resulting in about 19.4 ounces per bowl (8-9).
At this point, in one of the bowls, mix in the remaining rice flour (30 grams) , while in the other, mix in the cocoa , both sifted and always mixing with a hand whisk .
Grease the bundt pan with vegetable margarine and dust with a bit of rice flour (about 0.35 ounces). Then pour about half of the white batter into one part of the pan, next to it pour half of the cocoa batter , then again the remaining part of the white batter to finish with the last part of the cocoa batter . To achieve the marble effect, pass a fork through the batter making a movement from bottom to top to slightly mix the two batters .
Bake in a preheated oven for about 70 minutes at 356°F (if using a convection oven, bake for about 50 minutes at 320°F), if during this time the cake starts to darken too much, cover with a sheet of aluminum foil for the last 20 minutes . Once the baking time is over, turn out the cake onto a wire rack and let it cool. Then transfer it to a serving plate and for an extra touch, dust your gluten-free marble bundt cake with a tablespoon of powdered sugar before serving!
Store your gluten-free marble bundt cake under a glass dome for about 2-3 days!
Try replacing the Homemade Rice Milk with soy milk in the same quantity and flavor your bundt cake with orange zest!
Xanthan gum is a powdered natural gum, it's a valuable ally for those cooking gluten-free because it is actually one of the ingredients capable of making flour sticky just like natural gluten does. You can buy xanthan gum at the pharmacy or in well-stocked confectionery stores.
For gluten-free recipes, we recommend purchasing only products bearing the crossed-out ear of wheat on the package, certified gluten-free, recommended by the AIC Italian Celiac Association manual.

