name:
Rhubarb Tart with Lemon Custard
ingredients:
Butter: 1cup(125 g)- (cold from fridge)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Egg yolks: 2
Egg yolks: 3
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Sugar: 5 ½tbsp(70 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(50 g)
Cornstarch: 3tbsp(20 g)
Rhubarb: 1 ½cup(250 g)- (stalks)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Water: 5tbsp(75 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the rhubarb tart with lemon custard, start by making the Lemon Cream . Pour the milk and cream into a saucepan and flavor with lemon zest, being careful not to use the bitter white part . In a separate bowl, beat the egg yolks and sugar with the whisks .
Add the sifted cornstarch , then the hot milk a little at a time and mix vigorously to get a smooth and fluid mixture. Pour the mixture back into the saucepan, filtering it with a sieve .
Put the mixture back on the heat , stirring until it thickens , then transfer it to a bowl and cover it with plastic wrap in contact with the surface to prevent a skin from forming . Let the cream cool first at room temperature and then in the refrigerator.
In the meantime, prepare the Shortcrust pastry starting with the sablage: place the cold butter cut into cubes in a food processor equipped with blades along with the flour . Operate the processor until a sandy mixture is obtained, then transfer it to a work surface; make a well and add the powdered sugar, grated lemon zest , and egg yolks .
First, work the dough with a fork, then with your hands ; knead briefly, just long enough to compact the dough so the pastry doesn't become too warm from the heat of your hands and stays crisp. Form a patty and flatten it before wrapping it in plastic wrap ; place it in the refrigerator to firm up for at least 30 minutes. In the meantime, clean the rhubarb by washing, drying, and trimming the ends .
Cut the rhubarb into 4-inch strips . In a pan, pour the sugar and water and turn on the heat . Dissolve the sugar and place the rhubarb pieces, cooking them for about 2 minutes on each side .
Turn the rhubarb with kitchen tongs and continue cooking . Then place it on a rack to drain the excess syrup and let it cool . Once the time has passed, take the pastry dough and with the help of a rolling pin, roll it out on a slightly floured work surface .
Butter and dust a tart pan measuring 13.8x4.3 inches with flour, then lay the shortcrust pastry with the help of the rolling pin . Remove the excess edges, cutting them with a small knife, and make the pastry adhere well to the pan by pressing it with a ball of dough wrapped in a piece of plastic wrap (23-24).
Prick the base of the tart with the prongs of a fork , then transfer the now cold custard into a pastry bag without a nozzle to which you can make a cut and distribute it on the base , smoothing it well with a spatula .
Once finished, decorate the tart with the rhubarb cut into strips, carefully placing them on the custard side by side (28-29); bake in a static oven at 355°F for 30 minutes (or at 320°F for 20 minutes if using a convection oven). Once ready, let it cool, and finally, you can enjoy your rhubarb tart with lemon custard !
The rhubarb tart with lemon custard can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 3 days, covered with plastic wrap.
You can flavor the cream with orange zest or vanilla instead of lemon.

