name:
Iris
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(280 g)
Type 00 flour: 4 ½cups(550 g)
Sugar: 6tsp(25 g)
Eggs: 1- (medium)
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ¼cup(50 g)
Powdered sugar: 6.7tbsp(50 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 1.75oz(50 g)
Eggs: 2- (medium-sized)
Breadcrumbs: 2cups(200 g)
Peanut seed oil: 3 ¼cups(700 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the rising time (about 5 hours)

instructions:
To prepare the Iris, start by making the dough. Pour the sifted flour into the bowl of the stand mixer, along with the yeast , then add the sugar , and start the machine at moderate speed with the hook attached, slowly pouring the lukewarm milk .
Add the egg and knead the dough for about 10 minutes, then add the butter at room temperature, a little at a time, waiting for one piece to be absorbed before proceeding with the next , and knead until the mixture detaches from the sides of the mixer bowl, forming around the hook .
At this point, transfer the dough to a work surface and shape it into a sphere with your hands . Then place it in a container, cover it with plastic wrap , and let it rise for at least 4 hours in a turned-off oven with the light on (at a maximum temperature of between 78-86°F). Meanwhile, place the ricotta in a strainer and leave it in the refrigerator for 3-4 hours to drain the excess liquid . If you want to prepare the version with chocolate chips, pour them into a small bowl and freeze for at least 30 minutes, so they don't melt during cooking.
After the 4 hours, the dough will have doubled in volume , so take it and divide it into 12 pieces of about 80 grams (approximately 2.8 oz) each, working it with your hands on the work surface with a circular motion to form balls ; place them on a tray lined with parchment paper and let them rise for another hour covered with a clean cloth.
Meanwhile, prepare the filling for your Iris. Sift the ricotta, add the powdered sugar, and gently mix with a whisk ; then divide the mixture into two bowls. In one bowl, add the extra ricotta and powdered sugar (as indicated for the classic filling) . For the other bowl, which will be the base for the filling with chocolate chips, no additional ingredients are needed .
Take the now risen balls and flatten them with your fingers to form circles ; then add a generous spoonful of the classic filling in the center of 6 of these circles .
The remaining 6 circles will be filled with 1 spoonful of the basic filling, and a teaspoon of chocolate chips, which you have previously taken care to freeze . Proceed to close all the dough circles by lifting and joining the edges as if they were bundles . Then flip them and try to shape them into a ball, rotating them clockwise on the work surface while applying slight lateral pressure with your hands .
At this point, gently pass your Iris first through the lightly beaten eggs and then in the breadcrumbs (23-24).
In a large pan, pour the seed oil and bring it to a temperature of 340°F (you can measure the temperature with a kitchen thermometer); fry the Iris, a maximum of 2 at a time , for about 5-6 minutes, turning them halfway through cooking, to brown both sides well . Then place them on a tray lined with paper towels to absorb the excess oil . Serve your Iris still hot!
It is advisable to consume the Iris while still hot. Alternatively, once filled, you can freeze them and fry them when needed!
Flavor the filling of your Iris by adding orange zest or the seeds of a vanilla pod to the ricotta!

