name:
Saffron and Ossobuco Ravioli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2.4cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3
Saffron: 0.03tsp(0.15 g)- (1 packet)
Salt: 1pinch
Water: to taste
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste- (for dusting)
Veal marrow bones: 0.9lb(400 g)
White onions: 1
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Garlic: 1clove
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)- (to grate)
Meat broth: 2cups(500 g)
White wine: 1.8oz(50 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste
Butter: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: 1bunch
Lemon peel: 1
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- (for grating)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 2 h 10 min
Serving: 3
Cost: Average
Note + the dough resting time in the fridge (30 min.)

instructions:
To make saffron and ossobuco ravioli, first prepare the Beef Broth following our recipe. Keep it warm and start the dough: place the flour in a mound and pour the eggs in the center , the saffron dissolved in a little water , and a pinch of salt .
Incorporate the flour first with a fork and then by kneading with your hands on the work surface until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough ball . Cover with plastic wrap and let rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the ravioli filling: clean and finely chop the onion , celery , and carrot .
In a pan, melt the butter with a drizzle of oil. Meanwhile, flour the ossobuco and remove any excess flour. Place the meat in the pan and brown for 3 minutes on each side . Remove the ossobuco from the pan and set aside. Degrease the same pan with a paper towel , then add a drizzle of oil, the onion, and the carrot .
Add the celery and chopped garlic , then sauté for a few minutes. At this point, put the ossobuco back in the pan .
Deglaze with white wine and let all the alcohol evaporate. Moisten with the beef broth , salt, and pepper .
Cover with a lid and cook for 90 minutes over medium heat. Once the ossobuco is cooked, extract the marrow and set it aside in a bowl. Separate the meat from the bone and chop it with a knife .
Meanwhile, reduce the cooking juice . Add the chopped meat to the marrow and the reduced cooking juice .
Add the grated Parmigiano cheese and mix until you get a homogeneous mixture. Once cooled, transfer the filling to a piping bag and set aside. Retrieve the dough ball and pass it through a pasta machine until you get a sheet about 1/16 inch thick.
Dust the work surface with a little semolina; this way, it will be easier to detach the ravioli after forming them. Divide the sheet in half and brush one of the parts with water . Squeeze small mounds of filling on 2 rows about 1½ inches apart from each other . Then cover with the second sheet .
Press with your hands near the filling to eliminate the air , making it less likely to open during cooking. Cut out the ravioli with a 3½-inch round cutter . The leftover dough can be re-kneaded to form more ravioli; with these quantities, you will get about 22. Now, proceed with the preparation of the gremolata: in a bowl, grate a small piece of garlic .
Add fresh chopped parsley , grated lemon zest , and a drizzle of oil . Stir to combine the ingredients.
You are ready to cook: bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the ravioli for about 3 minutes . Meanwhile, in a pan, melt the butter with a ladle of pasta cooking water . Add part of the gremolata and mix.
Drain the ravioli and transfer them to the pan , then let the cooking liquid reduce; the sauce should be nice and creamy. Plate, finishing with more sauce and a sprinkle of grated Parmigiano cheese. Your saffron and ossobuco ravioli are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the saffron and ossobuco ravioli as soon as they are ready.
The ravioli can be stored raw, in the refrigerator, arranged on a floured tray and covered with a clean cloth, for up to one day. Alternatively, you can freeze them and cook them directly from frozen, slightly extending the cooking time.
If you prefer, you can replace the gremolata with a classic butter and sage seasoning or with a Parmigiano fondue.

