name:
Quinoa mini burgers
ingredients:
Whole grain rolls: 6
Quinoa: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Potatoes: 0.4lb(200 g)
Fresh scallion: 1.75oz(50 g)
Marjoram: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Tomato salads: 0.7cup(130 g)
Radicchio: 4leaves
Mixed salad: ¼cup(10 g)
Dijon mustard: 6tsp(30 g)- (in seeds)
Water: 1.7cups(400 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the quinoa mini burgers, start by boiling the potato for about 15 minutes . Then proceed by rinsing the quinoa well under running water . Next, toast the quinoa in a pot with a drizzle of oil, stirring often with a spatula .
Cover it with double its volume of room temperature water and let it cook over low heat covered with a lid for about 10 minutes, stirring only once; then fluff it with a spatula .
In the meantime, trim a scallion, then chop it finely and sauté it over low heat in a large pan, adding a little water. Once wilted, turn off the heat and set aside to cool. .
Pour the fluffed quinoa into a large bowl , then add: the mashed boiled potato , salt, pepper, and the sautéed scallion .
Finally, also add the marjoram leaves and mix with your hands until you have a homogeneous mixture. Using a pastry ring the same diameter as the buns (3 inches), create your burgers by pressing the mixture inside the ring with the back of a spoon . With this mixture, you will get 6 burgers of about 4 oz each .
Brown the quinoa burgers in a non-stick pan with a drizzle of oil for about 3 minutes on each side . Meanwhile, cut the tomatoes into slices about 0.2 inches thick .
At this point, all that's left is to assemble your buns. Cut them in half and add on the bottom half: the tomato and a radicchio leaf.
Also place the quinoa burger and some mixed greens , then spread mustard on the top half of the bun and close it. Serve your quinoa burgers hot !
The quinoa burgers themselves can be stored for up to 5 days in the refrigerator. If you assemble the sandwich, you should consume it within a day, as the bread will quickly become stale being whole wheat. You can freeze the quinoa burgers before cooking.
Flavor the burger as you like, our advice is to use fresh mint.
You can find quinoa in well-stocked supermarkets or ethnic stores.

