name:
Crudaiola pizza
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 7 ¾cups(1 kg)
Water: 2 ½cups(600 g)- (at room temperature)
Brewer's yeast: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: 3 ½tsp(20 g)
Baby carrots: 7oz(200 g)
Zucchini: 10.6oz(300 g)
Black olives: ½cup(100 g)- pitted
Pomodori di Pachino (cherry tomatoes): 2.7cups(400 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- fiordilatte
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: 10tsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the dough rising time (2-3 h)

instructions:
To prepare the Crudaiola Pizza, start by making the dough by sifting the flour into the bowl of a stand mixer . Add the yeast , then turn on the mixer with the hook attached at medium-low speed and slowly pour in the water .
Add the salt and continue kneading. Once you have a smooth and homogeneous mixture , also pour in the oil in a thin stream .
When the oil is completely absorbed and the dough is elastic , remove it from the mixer and shape it with your hands into a ball . Place it in a large, lightly greased bowl ,
cover with plastic wrap or a clean cloth and let it rise in the oven set to bread proofing mode. Wait for the dough to at least double in volume (1.5 h), preferably triple (2.5/3 h), and proceed with rolling out the pizzas. At this point , transfer it to the work surface and divide it into 4 equal parts with the help of a dough scraper ,
and with your hands, form balls . Once finished, cover with a clean cloth and let rest for 30 minutes at room temperature. After this time, lightly oil 4 pizza pans of 12 inches in diameter. Place one ball of dough in the center of each pan and start pressing from the center outward, gently stretching the sides if necessary. If the dough is too elastic and tends to return to its original shape, set aside the pizza you are stretching and proceed to stretch another, allowing the previous one to rest. Spread the dough over the entire surface of the pan and let it rest for half an hour.
In the meantime, prepare the ingredients for garnishing your pizza. Wash the zucchini and use a peeler to obtain very thin slices , then transfer them to a bowl and season with salt, pepper, a drizzle of oil , and part of the chopped thyme .
Now, take care of the baby carrots: remove the tops with a knife , wash them, cut them in half , and season with salt, oil , pepper, and thyme.
Also cut the cherry tomatoes into 4 and season them as done with the zucchini and carrots . At this point, cut the mozzarella into cubes and place it on your pizzas .
Select the bread cooking mode and without preheating the oven, bake the pizza on the lowest level of the oven and cook at 392°F for about 25 minutes . Once cooked, take it out of the oven ,
and top it with the reserved vegetables: cherry tomatoes, sliced olives, zucchini , and baby carrots . A drizzle of raw oil and your Crudaiola Pizza is ready!
The Crudaiola Pizza can be partially cooked and then frozen. To use it later, let it thaw at room temperature and finish cooking in the oven before serving!
To dress the Crudaiola Pizza, you can use any vegetables you prefer, such as bell peppers, or enrich it with slices of speck or prosciutto!

