name:
Trio of canapés
ingredients:
Sandwich bread: 10slices
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ½cup(140 g)
Stracchino cheese: 2oz(60 g)
Lemon peel: 1- (to be grated)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Smoked Salmon: 2.5oz(70 g)
Chives: to taste
Red pepper: to taste
Mortadella: 1.75oz(50 g)- sliced
Ground pistachio: 1 ½tbsp(10 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 2
Almond slices: 0.33oz(10 g)
Thyme: to taste

instructions:
If you're looking for some last-minute snacks to prepare Christmas appetizers or complete your Christmas menu and New Year's, here's a simple no-cook recipe: the trio of canapés! Easy and quick to prepare, these charming canapés are topped with a base cream of ricotta and stracchino and can be customized in a variety of ways. We propose a version with salmon and chives, one with mortadella and pistachios, and a vegetarian one with almonds and sun-dried tomatoes. To make your trio of canapés even more inviting, you might cut the sandwich bread with Christmas-themed cookie cutters... a fun idea that will add a special touch to your Christmas lunch table!
Want to enrich the buffet with other tasty appetizers? Also try:

To make the trio of canapés, first remove the crust from the slices of sandwich bread and divide each into 4 squares . Set aside and proceed with preparing the base cream.
Pour the ricotta into a mixer along with the stracchino , then add the grated lemon zest , salt , and pepper.
Drizzle with a bit of olive oil and blend to combine everything . If you don't have a mixer, you can use a whisk to combine. Divide the obtained cream into 3 small bowls .
Chop the chives . Spread a tablespoon of base cream on a sandwich bread square , then add a slice of smoked salmon .
Season with a pinch of chives and a sprinkle of pink pepper . Continue this way for all the salmon canapés .
Pour the pistachio crumbs into one of the bowls with the base cream , keeping a little aside for decoration. Blend to combine . If you don't have a mixer, you can simply mix the two ingredients. Spread a tablespoon of pistachio cream on a sandwich bread square .
Add a slice of mortadella , then garnish with some pistachio crumbs . Continue this way for all the mortadella canapés .
Pour thyme into one of the bowls with the base cream , then also add the almond slices . Keep a small part of thyme and almonds aside for decoration. Blend to chop and combine everything . If you don't have a mixer, you can chop the almond slices with a knife and then mix with a whisk.
Drain and finely chop the sun-dried tomatoes . Spread a tablespoon of almond cream on a sandwich bread square , then season with a few thyme leaves .
Add some almond slices , a few pieces of sun-dried tomato , and a sprinkle of black pepper. Your trio of canapés is ready !
It is recommended to consume the trio of canapés immediately.
You can prepare the creams a few hours in advance and store them in the refrigerator.
If you prefer, you can toast the sandwich bread squares.
You can chop the sandwich bread crusts and sauté them in a pan with oil, garlic, and rosemary to make flavored bread to use as pasta seasoning, for example!

url:
https://www.giallozafferano.com/recipes/Trio-of-canapes.html
