name:
How to clean sea urchins
ingredients:
Sea urchins: 2.2lbs(1 kg)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Note To open sea urchins, you need to have the specific tool, called a sea urchin cutter.

instructions:
Cleaning sea urchins is a very simple operation; you will only need a specific tool: the sea urchin cutter. To know if they are fresh, pay attention to only one thing: they should smell of the sea. Proceed by taking your sea urchins and start opening them using the indicated tool. Cut the upper part of the urchin which is recognizable by the mouth; once cut, empty the urchin of water and small algae inside and rinse it under running water .
At this point, proceed to extract the eggs using a teaspoon , then take only the orange part . Place them in a small bowl and use them as you prefer. Particularly prized for their taste and compactness are those with a bright coral red. Sea urchins are exceptional both raw and cooked.
It would be best to consume sea urchins as soon as they are bought or caught. Alternatively, you can store the eggs in a container covered with a damp cloth for a maximum of one day. Alternatively, you can freeze them for up to 15 days.
If you want an idea to consume sea urchins, follow our recipe: Spaghetti with Mussels and Sea Urchins .
If you prefer to consume sea urchins raw, it would be better to freeze them first and then thaw them.
Often, it is said that the edible sea urchins are the female ones, recognizable by their lighter and more purplish color compared to the males, which generally have completely black spines. In reality, the situation is different: those called "male urchins" and "female urchins" belong to two distinct species, and the sex of individuals of each of the two species is not recognizable by visible external characteristics. From this misunderstanding also arose the belief that only sea urchin eggs are used in cooking, while in reality, what is used are indiscriminately the male and female gonads of a single species.

