name:
Tart with Caramelized Kumquats
ingredients:
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Butter: 9tbsp(125 g)- (cold from the fridge)
Vanilla bean: 1
Kumquat: 19.5oz(550 g)
Sugar: 1.8cups(350 g)
Water: 1 ½cup(360 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.7cups(400 g)
Egg yolks: 6
Cornstarch: ½cup(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes to let the dough rest

instructions:
To prepare the tart with caramelized kumquats, start with the procedure to syrup the kumquats. First, it will be necessary to eliminate the distinctly bitter taste of the peel in this way: in a saucepan with plenty of water, boil the previously washed kumquats for 2-3 minutes . Drain them and repeat the operation at least 3 times. Finally, drain them and let them cool . Now cut them in half using a knife .
Now proceed to prepare the syrup. Take a high-sided saucepan and pour the water into it. When the water is boiling, add the halved kumquats . Pour the sugar into the saucepan and let it cook for 30-40 minutes on low heat until the kumquats are caramelized and have obtained an amber coloration , stirring occasionally.
Once ready, drain the kumquats with a sieve, collecting the syrup that has formed (about 10.5 oz) in a bowl and set everything aside . At this point, proceed to prepare the pastry. Take a mixer and pour the previously sifted flour, the salt, and the cold butter cut coarsely . Start the mixer until you get a sandy mixture .
Pour the mixture you obtained onto a work surface, adding the sifted powdered sugar. Create a hollow in the center and add the seeds of a vanilla pod and the yolks of two eggs . Knead the dough energetically and quickly and shape it into a loaf . Then wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest for at least 30 minutes.
You can then proceed with the preparation of the cream. Take a high-sided saucepan and pour in the syrup of water and sugar obtained for caramelizing the kumquats. Also, add the fresh cream into the saucepan and cook over low heat for 4-5 minutes. In a separate bowl, take the yolks and add the sifted cornstarch . Beat vigorously with a hand whisk the mixture. Then take a ladle of the warm cream and syrup mixture you have put to heat and pour it into the bowl to mix well and avoid the formation of lumps , continuing to mix with the hand whisk.
Then combine the small bowl mixture with the syrup and cream . Cook the cream, stirring continuously with the whisk; after boiling, continue cooking for 2-3 minutes: you should obtain a velvety and lump-free mixture . You should obtain a soft cream, not too dense .
Transfer the cream into a wide and shallow dish and cover with transparent food wrap so that it is in contact with the cream to avoid an annoying crust forming on the surface . Let it cool at room temperature. Once cooled, transfer it to the fridge to thicken better. Then take the pastry that has rested. Flour the work table and, with the help of a rolling pin, roll out the pastry to a thickness of about 1/4 inch . Butter and flour an 11-inch disc, then gently roll the pastry disc onto the rolling pin and unroll it over the mold, making sure to adhere the edges to the mold (you can trim the excess dough by trimming the edges with the blade of a small knife) .
Prick the pastry with the prongs of a fork . Cover the pastry with parchment paper and pour ceramic spheres over it for How to do blind baking . Bake in a static preheated oven at 338°F for 30 minutes or a fan oven at 302°F for 20 minutes. Once cooked, remove the spheres and bake further for 10 minutes. Let cool, and then remove from the mold .
At this point, transfer the cream you prepared into a piping bag and fill the tart by distributing the cream evenly and level the cream with the help of a spatula. Then arrange the caramelized kumquats following a radial pattern . Your tart with caramelized kumquats is now ready to be served to your guests and enjoyed !
The tart with caramelized kumquats can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for up to 2 days. It is not recommended to freeze it cooked because the cream would lose its consistency.
The raw pastry can be frozen wrapped in plastic wrap for about 1 month.
For more notes and citrus hints in your tart with caramelized kumquats, you can scent the cream with lime, orange, or lemon.

