name:
Rosemary and Sage Escalopes with Caramelized Shallots
ingredients:
Sliced veal: 0.9lb(400 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Sage: 6leaves
Rosemary: 1sprig
White wine: 1.8oz(50 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Vegetable broth: ¼cup(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Shallot: 0.5lb(250 g)
Broth: 0.42cup(100 g)
Honey: 1 ½tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the rosemary and sage escalopes with caramelized shallots, start by preparing some Vegetable broth . While preparing the vegetable broth, take the shallots. Remove their outer skin and cut them in half. Now take a non-stick pan and drizzle in the oil. Add the halved shallots and turn them to brown evenly. Deglaze with vegetable broth and season with salt and pepper. Cover the pan with a lid and let cook for 10 minutes over high heat, depending on the thickness of the shallot. Poke the shallot with a fork to check if they are cooked.
Once the vegetable broth has evaporated, add the honey and let cook for another 2-3 minutes , continuing to turn the shallots to allow even cooking and for the honey to fully blend with the shallots. The shallots will then be ready.
Now proceed to the preparation of the escalopes. Place the escalopes on a cutting board and cut them into small slices . Then pour all-purpose flour into a large container and flour the slices of meat by passing them on all sides . It is important that the slices are entirely covered with flour. Set the floured slices aside on a plate. Then take the sage and rosemary. Remove the needles from the woody part of the rosemary. Finely chop sage and rosemary together . Set aside the spice mix in a small bowl.
Then take another non-stick pan. Melt the butter over low heat with a drizzle of oil . When the butter has melted, add the chopped rosemary and sage . At this point, add the white wine to deglaze .
Then place your escalopes to cook in the pan . Turn the escalopes occasionally to allow even cooking . Let cook for 2-3 minutes until they are well browned. Then plate them with the caramelized shallots. Your rosemary and sage escalopes with caramelized shallots are now ready to serve and enjoy while still warm !
The rosemary and sage escalopes with caramelized shallots can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for up to two days.
Freezing is not recommended.
A little trick that can help improve the appearance of the dish: if during cooking the veal slices curl, make incisions with scissors at the point of curling, and they will lay flat again!
If you prefer, you can flour the escalopes with corn starch, rice flour, or potato starch.

