name:
Candied Kumquats
ingredients:
Kumquat: 1.2lbs(550 g)
Sugar: 1 ¾cup(350 g)
Water: 1 ½cup(360 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the time for sanitizing the jars

instructions:
To prepare candied kumquats, start by sanitizing jars and lids, as indicated in the Ministry of Health guidelines provided at the end of the recipe. Then take the kumquats and rinse them thoroughly under plenty of water. Next, proceed to reduce the bitter taste of their peel: take a high-sided pan, fill it with plenty of water, and heat. When the water is boiling, pour in the kumquats and let them blanch for 2-3 minutes. Then drain them . Repeat the blanching operation at least 3 times. Finally, place the kumquats in a bowl and let them cool .
At this point, take the kumquats and cut them in half . Then take a high-sided pan and fill it with plenty of water. When the water is boiling, pour in the kumquats . Then add the sugar .
Let them cook for 30-40 minutes on low heat to caramelize the kumquats. The kumquats will be caramelized when they take on an amber color . At this point, drain them using a colander, collecting the syrup in a bowl . Then place the still-warm kumquats in the sanitized jars, which can be of different sizes according to your needs. Fill with the syrup you collected in the bowl, leaving about half an inch from the top of the jar . If you use jars with twist-off (screw) lids, close them tightly but not too tight and let them cool. With the heat of the mixture, a vacuum will form, allowing the product to be stored for a long time. Once the jars have cooled, check if the vacuum has occurred correctly: you can press in the center of the lid and, if you don't hear the classic "click-clack," the vacuum has occurred. If you use jars with rubber gasket closures, when consuming the kumquats, you can test the vacuum by pulling the appropriate tab: if it produces a sharp sound when pulled, it means the content has been preserved with the correct vacuum. If pulling the tab, the gasket feels "soft," it means the vacuum wasn't created correctly, and it's better not to consume the content. Once you have verified that the storage was successful, your candied kumquats are ready to be consumed!
Provided the vacuum seal has occurred correctly, candied kumquats can be stored for 3 months in a cool, dry place away from direct light sources. It is advisable to wait at least 1 week before consuming them. Once a jar is opened, it can be stored in the refrigerator and it is advisable to consume its content within 3-4 days.
To flavor the candied kumquats, you can add vanilla bean seeds during cooking. You can pair candied kumquats with main dishes of red meat and fresh, soft cheeses: for an original and tantalizing combination that will leave everyone amazed!
The homemade preparation of preserves and jams can present health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the necessary conditions and measures to ensure the safety and suitability of the foods, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures can ensure to prevent dangerous contamination. Therefore, it is important to scrupulously follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it is always important to keep in mind that the same food safety as professionally produced preserves and jams cannot be achieved. For correct preparation of homemade preserves, refer to the Ministry of Health guidelines .

