name:
Stuffed Radishes
ingredients:
Radishes: ½cup(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: 25leaves
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.2oz(35 g)- (to be grated)
Coarse salt: 1pinch
Pecorino cheese: 2tbsp(15 g)- (to grate)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.7tbsp(50 g)
Pine nuts: 1tsp
Robiola cheese: 3oz(80 g)
Robiola cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Mint: 10leaves
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black olives: 1.75oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(22 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the stuffed radishes, start by washing the radishes thoroughly under water . Place them on a cutting board and remove the larger leaves, leaving only small tufts. Then cut the end part of the radish to create a cap that you will place on top of the radish once filled . Now, with the help of a small knife, hollow out the inside of the radish . Repeat the operation with all the radishes.
At this point, proceed with the preparation of the radish filling. Start with the preparation of the cheese and mint mixture. Finely chop the mint leaves: you should obtain about 1/4 ounce of chopped mint . Pour one-third of the robiola cheese into a small bowl and add the finely chopped mint . Adjust the robiola and mint filling with salt and pepper . Mix all the ingredients with a spoon. The first radish filling is now ready.
Then proceed with the preparation of the Black olive pâté . Pit the black olives and blend them. Once blended, add the oil and blend again until you get a creamy and sufficiently dense mixture .
Now pour the robiola cheese into a bowl and add the olive pâté . Mix well to combine the ingredients to obtain the second radish filling. Then proceed with the preparation of the Genoese pesto (Pesto alla genovese) which will be used for your third filling. Put the garlic, coarse salt, and basil leaves in a mortar and pound them .
Then crush by rotating the pestle against the walls of the mortar. Then add the pine nuts and the cheeses and the oil in a thin stream , continuing to crush the ingredients until you obtain a homogeneous and creamy mixture. Then take one-third of the robiola cheese and put it in a small bowl. Also, add the pesto .
Now carefully mix all the ingredients . Then take 8 radishes and fill them with the robiola and pesto filling. Place the end you previously obtained on top of each radish . Repeat the operation with the other fillings obtained by filling the remaining radishes and placing their ends on them. Then serve the radishes with three fillings to delight your guests !
Stuffed radishes can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
Does robiola not suit your taste? You can get creative by using any other spreadable cheese!
With a little imagination, you can also have fun preparing tasty fillings with the ingredients you like most!

