name:
Plum Roll
ingredients:
Eggs: 5
Honey: 1 ½tsp(10 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Sugar: 0.7cup(140 g)
Prunes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Cornstarch: 3tbsp(25 g)
Sugar: 6tbsp(75 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Gelatin in sheets: 0.1oz(2.5 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 13 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the plum roll, start by preparing the sponge cake. In the bowl of a stand mixer, pour the eggs along with the honey and sugar , adding it gradually until the mixture becomes fluffy and light. Stop the mixer and add the sifted flour , stirring gently.
Pour the mixture onto a greased and parchment-lined 12x16 inch baking sheet and spread it with a spatula , leveling carefully until you get a 1/4 inch layer . Bake in a preheated oven at 428°F for 8-9 minutes in static mode, or at 392°F for 4-5 minutes if ventilated. Once cooked, gently detach the sponge cake with a small knife
and flip it onto a work surface with the parchment paper still attached. Sprinkle with granulated sugar so it doesn't stick , and then cover with a clean tea towel or wrap in plastic wrap so it cools without drying out . Meanwhile, prepare the cream: first, soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for at least 10 minutes ;
heat the milk in a saucepan and add the vanilla seeds and pod . As soon as it reaches a boil, remove the pod and, if desired, strain the milk through a fine mesh strainer; in a separate bowl, beat the eggs with the sugar then add the starch and mix,
when the mixture is light and fluffy, pour in a little of the hot milk and temper it, then pour it into the milk cooking pot , stirring continuously until it thickens. Squeeze the gelatin sheets and add them to the cream , again stirring well to ensure the gelatin dissolves and doesn't form lumps.
Once ready, transfer the cream to a bowl and cover with plastic wrap in contact to prevent skin from forming. Once the cream is completely cold, pour the cream into the bowl of the stand mixer and when it is well whipped add it to the cream, folding it gently from bottom to top ;
let it rest in the fridge for about an hour . Meanwhile, focus on the plums, so after washing and cutting them in half, remove the pit and then cut them into wedges, getting 6 from each half . Arrange the plum slices on a baking sheet with the 1/4 cup of sugar ,
and let them caramelize at 464°F on grill function for 3-4 minutes . While the plums are cooling, spread the cream, which will be well set, distributing it on the sponge cake with a spatula to level it and then arrange the cooked plums neatly horizontally, spacing them a couple of inches apart ,
roll up the sponge cake using the plastic wrap , sealing the sides well, twisting them like candy, and rolling the roll tightly , then place the roll in the fridge and let it set for at least 2 hours .
After the necessary time, remove the plastic wrap from the roll and dust with powdered sugar , then you can slice and serve your plum roll .
The plum roll can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4-5 days. You can also freeze it, in which case it's best to slice it beforehand.
From experience, I've learned that this is the dessert of patience! In fact, the longer it rests in the fridge, the easier it will be to portion. Feel free to prepare it the day before. The addition of honey gives the dessert its unmistakable delicacy, try varying it each time with different honey, starting from a mild one like acacia to a strong one like chestnut.

