name:
Herb-flavored hamburger with mixed vegetables and fries
ingredients:
Flour: ½cup(65 g)
Brewer's yeast: ¼tsp(1 g)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Milk: 0.3cup(70 g)- (warm)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Sugar: 2tsp(7.5 g)
Malt: 0.4oz(10 g)
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
Brewer's yeast: 0.3tsp(1.5 g)
Red cabbage: 3 ½cups(100 g)
Green beans: 1cup(200 g)
Carrots: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Zucchini: 1cup(200 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)
Beef: 0.9lb(400 g)- ground
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Dill: to taste
Chives: to taste
Potatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Peanut seed oil: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Ketchup: 8 ½tbsp(140 g)
Sesame seeds: to taste
Eggs: 1- (for brushing)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Note + 4 h of rising

instructions:
To prepare the herb-flavored burgers with mixed vegetables and fries, start with the buns. Begin by preparing the starter dough: take a large bowl and sift the flour and yeast . Add the water a little at a time and knead energetically with your hands to combine all the ingredients until you obtain a smooth dough. Shape the dough into a ball, cover with plastic wrap, and let it rest for at least 3-4 hours in an oven turned off with the light on .
Then proceed with the dough: in a stand mixer, sift the flour, the dry yeast, and add the granulated sugar and malt . Turn on the stand mixer with the paddle at medium speed. Then pour in the milk at room temperature and the water in a stream at room temperature. Once the liquids have been absorbed, gradually add the risen starter dough . Continue kneading for about 3 or 4 minutes until the dough is homogeneous.
At this point, remove the paddle from the stand mixer and attach the hook. Let the stand mixer run, meanwhile add the salt and work the dough for about 3 minutes at medium speed. While kneading, pour in the oil in a stream and the slightly softened butter one piece at a time, waiting for it to be absorbed before adding another piece . You should have an elastic and homogeneous dough.
Then transfer the dough to a work surface. Stretch it slightly with your hands then fold it by joining the ends . Repeat the operation a couple of times. Then shape the dough into a ball and let it rest in a bowl covered with plastic wrap for at least 2 hours in an oven turned off with the light on (at a temperature of 82-86°F) .
Afterwards, take the dough, place it on a work surface, and divide it into 4 parts of about 4.6 oz each . Work each piece until you form balls. Then take a baking sheet, and after buttering it, place the balls you have formed well spaced from each other . Let them rise for about 1 hour .
After the rising time, brush them with an egg and decorate with sesame seeds : bake in a preheated static oven at 374°F for 20 minutes (or in a ventilated oven at 320°F for 10 minutes, in this case you can try baking 1 bun to better adjust the time and temperature). Then take the buns out of the oven and let them cool at room temperature . The buns are ready to be cut in half and stuffed!
Now proceed with preparing the side dish. Wash all the vegetables well under running water, then take the cabbage and cut it with a small knife to remove the toughest part to be eliminated, and julienne it . Fill a bowl with water and add the cabbage until you need it for the filling. Peel the carrots and julienne them . Trim the zucchini and julienne them as well, then trim the green beans. In a large non-stick pan, pour in the oil in a stream, heat it, and add the carrots . Let the carrots cook over high heat for 4 minutes.
Then add the zucchini and green beans to the pan . Sauté the vegetables for a few more minutes and finally add water . Cover the pan with a lid and cook for 10 minutes over moderate heat. Now proceed with preparing the herb-flavored hamburgers. On a cutting board, finely chop the dill and chives using a knife .
In a bowl, place the meat and add the chopped dill and chives. Season with salt and pepper. Using a fork or your hands, mix the ingredients well . Then take a pastry cutter with a diameter of 5 inches and place the chopped meat inside . Repeat the operation to obtain 4 hamburgers of about 3.9 oz each .
Then take a grill, lightly oil it to prevent the burgers from sticking, and heat it. Cook the burgers on the grill, each side for about 3 or 4 minutes . The burgers are now ready to be assembled in the bun. Take the buns you prepared earlier and cut them in half horizontally. Drain the cabbage you placed in the bowl with water. Using kitchen tongs, place some cabbage on the lower part of the bun . Then place the burger using a spatula
season with ketchup to taste and add an additional layer of cabbage on top of the burger . Complete your sandwich by placing the other half of the bun on top . To finish your dish, take the potatoes, wash them under plenty of water, peel them, and slice them lengthwise to obtain not too thin slices from which you'll cut classic sticks. Then take a high-sided pot, pour in the oil, and bring to a boil. Dry the potatoes. When the oil reaches a temperature of 356°F, add the potatoes .
Fry them until golden, and drain them using a slotted spoon , then season them with a pinch of salt to taste. Finally, place the fries next to the burger sandwich . Add the julienned vegetables and get ready to enjoy your creation with friends and family !
The herb-flavored burger with mixed vegetables should be cooked and assembled when needed.
The burger can be frozen once cooked, if only fresh ingredients were used.
The vegetables can be prepared in advance and kept in the refrigerator, uncooked or raw, cut and covered with plastic wrap for up to 3 days.
Red cabbage is characterized by a pungent flavor. If you prefer milder flavors, leave the julienned cabbage soaked in a bowl of water and salt for a few hours to make its flavor less intense.

