name:
Risotto with Turnip Greens
ingredients:
Broccoli rabe: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Carnaroli rice: 1.8cups(350 g)
White onions: 1.5oz(40 g)
Celery: 1.4oz(40 g)
Carrots: 1.5oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)- (to grate)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Carrots: 1
White onions: ½
Celery: 1rib

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus 1 hour cooking time for the vegetable broth

instructions:
To prepare the risotto with turnip greens, start by making the vegetable broth needed for cooking the risotto: wash a carrot and a celery stalk and cut them into large pieces, peel half an onion, place the vegetables in a pot filled with water , bring to a boil, then salt. Cover with a lid and cook for about an hour and a half. Clean the turnip greens: remove the wilted leaves, the hard and fibrous outer stems, and keep the smaller, tender inner ones, setting aside the leaves and tender stems (2-3).
Take the florets and detach them one by one from the stalk . Once the broth is ready, you can begin preparing the risotto: peel the carrot, peel the onion, and remove the outer fibrous membrane of the celery with a vegetable peeler, chop all the vegetables , heat the olive oil in a high-sided pan, add the chopped vegetables and sauté for at least 5 minutes,
adding some broth to prevent the soffritto from browning too much . Then add the rice and toast it, stirring with a spoon, then deglaze with the white wine
and add a ladle of vegetable broth , continue cooking by adding the broth one ladle at a time. In a large pot, bring water to a boil, add both the leaves and the florets , and blanch them for 2-3 minutes,
drain the turnip greens and transfer them to a bowl with ice to cool them and retain the color . Divide the greens into two bowls: blend with an immersion blender those in one bowl and leave the others whole .
Towards the end of the risotto's cooking, add the blended turnip greens and the whole ones and salt. When the rice is ready, turn off the heat and stir in the butter
the grated Parmesan , mix to bind the ingredients well , and serve the risotto with turnip greens hot .
It is preferable to consume the risotto with turnip greens immediately; if there are leftovers, store them in an airtight container in the refrigerator for a couple of days. You can freeze the turnip greens: clean them and blanch for 5 minutes, then drain well and cool them, then freeze.
Those who love bold flavors can add fresh chili at the end of cooking, to give the risotto a spicy note.

