name:
Sweet Casatiello
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2cups(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Condensed milk: ⅓cup(100 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1.7tsp(5 g)
Water: 1 ½cup(350 g)- (warm)
Fine salt: to taste
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- (at room temperature)
Egg whites: 1- (for brushing)
Dried fruit: 7.1oz(200 g)- mixed
Liqueur: 0.7tbsp(10 g)- (to taste)
Orange juice: 2
Egg whites: 5tbsp(70 g)
Powdered sugar: 1.67cups(200 g)
Glitter sugar: to taste
Butter: to taste- (melted)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + about 6 h of rising time

instructions:
To prepare the sweet casatiello start by making the dough. Take the stand mixer with the hook attachment and pour in the sieved 00 flour and Manitoba flour , then add the dried yeast . Next, add the condensed milk .
Start the stand mixer at medium speed and begin kneading the mixture with the hook. At this point, add the water little by little . Before finishing adding all the water, add the salt to the dough you are mixing . Continue mixing at medium speed until you get an elastic and well-incorporated dough .
Then add the butter little by little, making sure to add each part only after the previous part has been well absorbed into the dough . Now transfer the dough to a work surface and knead it with your hands until you obtain a spherical shape . Place the ball-shaped dough in a new clean bowl, previously greased. Cover the dough with plastic wrap and let it rise in the oven with the light on at 86°F for 2 to 3 hours as needed.
Now proceed with the casatiello filling. Chop the dried fruits coarsely. Now squeeze the oranges in a small bowl to get the juice. Add the herbal liqueur to this juice . Now set the dried fruits to soak for about two hours in the juice you obtained . Return to the preparation of the casatiello dough. When the dough placed in the oven has doubled in volume, transfer it to a pastry board. There, flatten the dough and stretch it with your hands to obtain a rectangle of about 12 inches X 16 inches . The dough obtained should be soft enough not to require the use of a rolling pin.
Now drain the dried fruits and spread them over the entire surface of the dough . Roll the dough from the long side . Grease a 10-inch diameter bundt cake pan and place the casatiello roll in the pan .
Let it rise for 45 minutes at room temperature. After the rising time and the casatiello has doubled in volume, lightly brush with egg white which you can beat with a fork. Bake the casatiello at 356°F for 60 minutes. Remove the casatiello from the oven and let it cool on a wire rack. Now proceed with the preparation of the Royal icing . Beat the egg whites with the beaters of an electric mixer. Now add the powdered sugar little by little .
Work the mixture until you get a smooth and fluid glaze . Now decorate the sweet casatiello by spreading it with the royal icing and complete the decorations with colorful sprinkles to your liking . Enjoy your casatiello!
The sweet casatiello can be stored for a maximum of 2 or 3 days at room temperature under a glass dome.
Do you want to add a fun and curious touch for your guests or children? Decorate your sweet casatiello by placing delightful chocolate eggs around it.

