name:
Dark Chocolate Easter Egg
ingredients:
Dark chocolate 70%: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (for coating)

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 1 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the time for the chocolate to set in the mold

instructions:
To prepare the dark chocolate Easter egg, start by How to temper the chocolate: chop the 70% dark chocolate and melt it in a double boiler (the water in the pot should ideally just touch the bottom of the bowl where you've placed the chocolate) ; when the chocolate reaches a temperature of 129째F (measure with a kitchen thermometer), dry the bottom of the pot (keep the boiling water in the pot) and pour 2/3 of it onto a marble slab placed on a work surface (the marble slab helps dissolve the chocolate faster and reach the ideal temperature) ;
Start working the chocolate on the slab with a spatula and a scraper, spreading it over the surface. When it reaches 82째F (always measure with a kitchen thermometer) , transfer it back into the bowl where you left the remaining 1/3 of the chocolate and mix . The chocolate should reach 88-90째F . If at any point the temperature drops too much, keep the double boiler with hot water nearby to slightly warm the chocolate. Conversely, if it's still too warm, repeat the spatula operation on the marble with a small portion of the chocolate.
Pour the chocolate into the 10-inch Easter egg mold , spreading it evenly with a rotating motion to make sure it reaches the edges. After one minute, invert the mold onto a tray to collect the excess chocolate. Lightly tap the edges of the mold to remove air bubbles, then let crystallize for about 20 minutes. Once slightly solidified , use a scraper to remove the excess chocolate around the edges to refine them. Then, pour the excess chocolate back into the mold, repeating the rotating motion to distribute it evenly. Let it crystallize again for about 20 minutes, then remove the edges as in step 9 if necessary and let the chocolate set.
Pour the excess chocolate back into the mold (10-11), repeating the rotating motion to distribute it evenly. Let it crystallize again for about 20 minutes, then remove the chocolate peaks (as in step 9) if necessary and let the chocolate set for 2-3 hours. If the external temperature is above 68째F, you can place the mold in the fridge. Once well crystallized, you'll notice there is no more chocolate sticking to the mold and you can gently unmold the two halves of the egg by applying slight pressure on the mold .
Heat a pan larger than the egg and then place it on the work surface: lay one half of the egg with the edges facing the bottom of the pan and hold for just a moment to slightly warm the edges : insert the surprise and join the two halves ; hold for a few minutes to seal the parts. The dark chocolate Easter egg is ready to be gifted and then enjoyed on Easter day!
Store the dark chocolate Easter egg in a cool, dry place for about 30 days, away from direct light sources.
Do you have a lot of leftover chocolate from the Easter eggs? You can recycle it to make delicious brownies or chocolate muffins!

