name:
Citrus 7 Jars Cake
ingredients:
Yogurt with fruit: 1vasetto- citrus (125 ml at room temperature)
Sugar: 2vasetti- scarce
Type 00 flour: 2vasetti
Potato starch: 1vasetto
Vegetable oil: 1vasetto
Eggs: 3- medium
Egg yolks: 1
Baking powder: 3 ¾tsp(16 g)- (1 packet)
Lemon peel: 1
Orange peel: 1
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the citrus 7 jars cake, first separate the egg yolks from the egg whites. Beat the yolks with sugar using a stand mixer with the whisk attachment . Add all the yogurt to the mixture
and the vegetable oil . Continue mixing the ingredients. Now grate the zest of 1 orange and 1 lemon to add to the mixture .
Then add the baking powder and the two jars of flour and the jar of potato starch after sifting them . Keep mixing all the ingredients. At this point, beat the egg whites using whisks adding a pinch of salt. In a separate bowl, beat the egg whites with a pinch of salt using an electric mixer. When they are stiff
you can gently fold them into the mixture a little at a time. Be careful not to deflate the egg whites, mixing from top to bottom with a spatula to prevent the mixture from deflating . Take a cake pan and line it with parchment paper. Pour the mixture into the 9.5-inch diameter cake pan, leveling the mixture and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 40 minutes. Once baked, remove the cake and let it cool, then remove it from the pan and let it cool completely on a wire rack. When the citrus 7 jars cake is completely cool, you can sprinkle it with powdered sugar to taste !
The citrus 7 jars cake can be stored for 2 or at most 3 days at room temperature covered with a glass dome. It can be frozen in slices if you've used fresh ingredients.
If you like, you can personalize your cake with other citrus fruits to replace or combine with orange and lemon, such as lime to give the cake a refined and exotic taste, or mandarin and clementines for a softer and rounder flavor.

