name:
Milk Chocolate Easter Egg
ingredients:
Milk Chocolate: 26.5oz(750 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 1 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the milk chocolate Easter egg, chop the chocolate and melt it in a double boiler (it's preferable that the water in the pot does not touch the bottom of the bowl containing the chocolate); measure the temperature with a kitchen thermometer and when the chocolate reaches 113-122째F, pour 2/3 of it onto a marble slab placed on a work surface (the marble serves to cool the chocolate quickly and reach the appropriate temperature)
and start working on the slab with a spatula and a scraper, spreading it over the surface. When it reaches 81째F , transfer it to the bowl where you left the remaining 1/3 and mix. The chocolate should reach 84째F . If in these steps the temperature drops too low, always keep the pot with warm water of the double boiler at hand to slightly heat the chocolate. Conversely, if it's still too hot, repeat the operation of spreading on marble with a small portion of the chocolate.
At this point, take the 7-inch mold and pour the melted chocolate into the two halves (7-8); rotate the mold to cover the edges with chocolate, then after 1 minute, turn it over onto a tray to collect the excess chocolate, lightly tapping the edges of the mold to remove air bubbles ; collect the excess chocolate in a bowl. Let the chocolate solidify for about 10-15 minutes at room temperature.
Then, remove excess chocolate from the edges with a scraper to even them out , then pour the leftover chocolate back into the two halves and rotate the mold to evenly distribute the second layer of chocolate. Let the chocolate crystallize in the mold for 2-3 hours (if the temperature exceeds 68째F, you can let it crystallize in the fridge). Then take the mold with the now solidified chocolate , turn it over to gently unmold the egg halves by applying slight pressure on the mold's shape.
Heat a wide pan of about 9 inches and then place it on the work surface, then place one half of the egg at a time with the edges touching the bottom ; hold it for just a moment so they warm slightly, then insert the surprise and match the two halves . Hold it in place for a few minutes until the two halves are sealed, then your milk chocolate Easter egg is ready to be gifted and enjoyed on Easter day !
Store the milk chocolate Easter egg in a cool, dry place away from direct light for about 30 days.
As with the dark chocolate egg, also choose a high-quality couverture milk chocolate suitable for tempering.

