name:
Two-flavor Easter egg with dark and white chocolate
ingredients:
Dark chocolate 70%: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (for coating)
White chocolate: 17.6oz(500 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 1 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the time for the chocolate to set in the molds

instructions:
To prepare the two-flavor Easter egg with dark and milk chocolate, start with the How to temper of the dark chocolate: chop the chocolate and melt it in a bain-marie (it's preferable that the water in the pot does not touch the bottom of the bowl where you placed the chocolate); measure the temperature with a thermometer and when the chocolate reaches 129°F, dry the bottom of the pot and pour 2/3 of it onto the marble slab positioned on a work surface (the marble slab is important because its coolness allows the chocolate to quickly reach temperature)
begin to work the chocolate on the marble slab, with a spatula and a scraper , spreading it on the surface. When it reaches 82°F, transfer it to the bowl where you left the remaining 1/3 of the chocolate and mix: the chocolate should reach 88/90°F . If during these phases the temperature drops too low, always keep the pot of the bain-marie with hot water handy to slightly warm the chocolate. Conversely, if it's still too hot, repeat the operation of spreading on marble with a small part of the chocolate.
Pour the tempered chocolate into a 9.84-inch Easter egg mold; distribute the chocolate up to the edge by rotating the mold. After 1 minute, turn the mold upside down on a tray and let the excess chocolate drip out, gently tapping the mold to eliminate air bubbles. You can let the chocolate rest for about 20 minutes with the mold resting with the full side on the work surface. In the meantime, start tempering the white chocolate: chop the white chocolate and melt it in a bain-marie following the instructions for the dark chocolate. The temperature of the white chocolate should reach 113°F; then transfer 2/3 of the chocolate onto the marble surface and start spreading it with a scraper .
The chocolate should reach a temperature of 79/81°F. Then, pour it into the bowl where you left the 1/3 of chopped chocolate and mix to melt it; measure the temperature which should be 81/82°F. If during these phases the temperature drops too low, always keep the pot of the bain-marie with hot water handy to slightly warm the chocolate. Conversely, if it's still too hot, repeat the operation of spreading on marble with a small part of the chocolate.
At this point, when the dark chocolate has set in the mold, pour the white chocolate (at 81/82°F) to cover the dark chocolate and rotate to distribute it evenly . Then after 1 minute, turn the mold upside down to let the excess chocolate drip out and let it crystallize for about 20 minutes. You can then trim the edges of the egg with a scraper to eliminate chocolate peaks; let it set for about 2 hours, placing the mold on a work surface with the concave sides facing up. If the temperature is too high (above 68°F), place the mold in the refrigerator to crystallize. Once it's solidified, you can turn the mold upside down and press lightly to release the egg halves .
Heat a pan larger than the egg, then place it hot on the work surface and lay one half of the egg at a time with the edges facing the bottom ; hold for a few moments to slightly warm the edges, then stick the two halves together . You can insert a surprise and then press the two halves together for a few minutes to let them seal perfectly. Your two-flavor Easter egg with dark and white chocolate will be ready to be gifted and enjoyed on Easter day! You can decorate it with strands of leftover white chocolate, using a piping bag with a small hole.
Store the two-flavor Easter egg with dark and white chocolate in a cool, dry place away from light sources for about 30 days.
To achieve a satisfactory result, use couverture dark chocolate available in stores selling pastry products and perform the tempering on a marble slab to bring it to the ideal temperature! You can also make a two-flavor egg with milk and white chocolate!

