name:
Coffee mousse with cigar
ingredients:
Coffee: 2.1oz(60 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 2.1cups(500 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(200 g)
Powdered sugar: ½cup(50 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.2oz(5 g)
Water: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Egg whites: 0.3cup(80 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 3tbsp(15 g)
Almond flour: 3.2oz(90 g)
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(90 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.416cup(100 g)
Dark chocolate: 4.4oz(125 g)
Instant coffee: 2tsp
Dark chocolate: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 1 h 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the mousse

instructions:
To prepare the coffee mousse with cigar, start with the mousse: soak the gelatin sheets in a small bowl containing cold water for at least 10 minutes , then squeeze them and dissolve them in the coffee you previously prepared with the moka, letting it cool slightly . Add the mascarpone and mix everything with a whisk .
Whip the cream with the powdered sugar and fold it into the mascarpone cream you prepared , stirring from bottom to top so it doesn't deflate . Then cover the mixture with plastic wrap in contact and place it in the refrigerator to set for 2 hours.
In the meantime, focus on the cigars. In a bowl, place the almond flour, the sifted cocoa, and powdered sugar ; add half the egg whites and mix until you get a homogeneous dough .
In a saucepan, heat the water with the granulated sugar : when the temperature reaches 237°F (you can measure with a kitchen thermometer), start whipping the remaining egg whites to stiff peaks. When the temperature reaches 250°F, pour the syrup in a thin stream into the egg whites and continue to whip until the meringue has cooled . At this point, combine the meringue with the cocoa mixture you prepared earlier ,
mixing with a kitchen spatula . Transfer the mixture you obtained into a pastry bag with a plain tip of 0.4 inches in diameter and make sticks about 4 inches long on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Once done , bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for 13-15 minutes (or at 284°F for 10-12 minutes if in a fan oven).
When the cigars are ready , remove them from the oven and let them cool. Meanwhile, prepare the ganache: bring the cream to a boil and add the instant coffee . Stir with a teaspoon to dissolve it, then pour everything over the finely chopped dark chocolate .
Stir until completely melted , then cover with plastic wrap in contact and let it cool first at room temperature and then in the refrigerator. After the necessary time has passed, you can assemble your dessert: pour the mousse into ashtrays with the help of a pastry bag and grate some dark chocolate as decoration .
Fill the cigars with the ganache using a pastry bag without a tip to which you can make a hole and close them with the other half . Finally, you can serve and enjoy your coffee mousse with cigar accompanied by a good glass of passito !
You can store the coffee mousse with cigar for a maximum of 1-2 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap.
If your dad doesn't like coffee, why not prepare a chocolate mousse? For the glass, you can also opt for a non-alcoholic version: cider or a simple apple juice will be an excellent accompaniment!

