name:
Cassata Cups
ingredients:
Eggs: 2- (medium)
Type 00 flour: ⅓cup(40 g)
Sugar: 5tbsp(60 g)
Honey: 1tsp(5 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Condensed milk: 0.3cup(100 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 1.75oz(50 g)
Mixed candied fruit: to taste- (oranges, citron, pear, cherries)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
To prepare the cassata cups, start with the preparation of the sponge cake. Take the room-temperature eggs, crack them, and pour them into the stand mixer . Then add the honey and the seeds from the vanilla bean .
Now gradually add the sugar and whip until the mixture becomes light and frothy . After about 10 minutes, you will achieve the desired consistency. At this point, sift the flour and gently incorporate it into the previously obtained mixture, being very careful not to deflate the batter .
Then take a 12.5-inch baking tray and line it with parchment paper. Pour the mixture into the lined tray and level it well so that it is uniform and the baking is even. Bake the tray in a preheated static oven at 329°F for about 15 minutes. By the end of the baking, the mixture will have a golden color . While the sponge cake is baking, proceed with preparing the cream for your cassata cups. Sift the ricotta to make it even softer and creamier .
Combine the sifted ricotta with the condensed milk and mix until you get a homogeneous mixture. Add the chocolate chips to this mixture and blend the ingredients. The cream for your cups is ready. Once the baking time of the sponge cake is over, remove it from the oven and let it cool. When it reaches room temperature, take a pastry cutter with a diameter of 2 inches (for the bottom discs of the cup) and one of 3 inches (for the middle discs of the cup) . You will have a small amount of sponge cake left over. Now cut out the sponge cake to obtain as many discs as there are cups.
Now move on to assembling the cups. Take the cups and place the 2-inch diameter sponge cake on the bottom . With a piping bag, pour the previously prepared ricotta and condensed milk cream . Now take the candied fruits and cut them into small pieces .
Add the chopped candied fruits using tweezers and on top of these, add a 3-inch sponge cake disc . Again, using the piping bag, fill with the ricotta and condensed milk cream, then with the candied fruits. The cassata cups will be ready to enjoy !
The cassata cups can be stored in the fridge for up to two days. Freezing is not recommended.
For an even more delightful and original touch, you can decorate your cassata cups with lemon, orange, or lime zest. Let your imagination guide you!

