name:
Wholemeal rolls
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 4cups(500 g)
Whole grain flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Water: 2 ¾cups(640 g)- (warm)
Fine salt: 3 ½tsp(20 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1.67tsp(8 g)
Flax seed: 3tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Flax seed: 1 ½tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 21 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the time for rising

instructions:
To prepare the wholemeal rolls, sift the Manitoba flour into a bowl , add the wholemeal flour , the dry yeast
and mix with a spoon . In another bowl, dissolve the salt in lukewarm water , then pour the salted water into the dry ingredients ,
knead with your hands and add the flaxseeds . Knead again very quickly : the dough should be very soft and sticky;
transfer it to an oiled work surface and work it until you achieve a smooth consistency, then form a ball, place it in the bowl, and cover with plastic wrap , letting it rise for at least 1 hour in a turned-off oven with the light on to create a warm environment; after the necessary time, the dough will have swollen and doubled in volume .
At this point, make folds to give the right boost to the leavening, gently lifting the outer edges and bringing them toward the center ; repeat this operation 8 times around the entire circumference of the dough , then turn it over and form a ball .
Cover again with plastic wrap , letting it rest for another hour always in a turned-off oven with the light on. Take the dough (which will have leavened in the meantime) and make folds again to make it more elastic, working it on an oiled work surface. Form a loaf ,
which you will divide with a dough scraper into 21 portions, each weighing 70g . With your hands, form balls , which you will gradually place on a baking tray lined with parchment paper, spaced apart .
Let them rise again for another hour always in a turned-off oven with the light on, then brush the rolls with oil and sprinkle the flaxseeds on the surface . Bake in a convection oven at 375°F for 30 minutes (or at 410°F for 50 minutes if in a static oven), finally, you can remove and serve your wholemeal rolls .
You can store the wholemeal rolls for 1-2 days at most in a food bag. It is possible to freeze the rolls when raw: to bake them, simply thaw them in the refrigerator about 24 hours beforehand and then bake them in the oven. The dough can be frozen after the 3-hour rise, only if all fresh ingredients were used; let it thaw in the refrigerator and then bring it to room temperature before baking.
Unleash your imagination! To enrich your wholemeal rolls, you can use tasty nuts like chopped walnuts and hazelnuts!

