name:
Spring Eggs
ingredients:
Eggs: 12
Cream cheese: ⅓cup(80 g)
Spinach: 6.67cups(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Cream cheese: ½cup(100 g)
Precooked beets: 3.5oz(100 g)
Cream cheese: 4.5oz(130 g)
Tomato paste: 2tbsp(30 g)- double
Smoked paprika: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the spring eggs, first, place the eggs in a saucepan and cover them with cold water . Bring to a boil and let them cook for 6-8 minutes. At this point, drain them and let them cool. In the meantime, clean the spinach and blanch them in a pan with a drizzle of oil until wilted , then set them aside to cool and proceed to prepare the other fillings.
To prepare the purple filling, cut the beet into cubes and place it in a tall container along with the cream cheese . Add a pinch of salt, a pinch of pepper, and blend everything with an immersion blender until you have a creamy mixture .
To prepare the red filling, pour the cream cheese into a bowl, add the tomato paste , the paprika , and mix well with a spatula . If you like, you can also add a pinch of salt and pepper here.
To prepare the green filling, take the spinach that will now be cooled, place them in a container with the cream cheese , and blend them with an immersion blender , adding a pinch of salt and pepper until you have a smooth cream .
At this point, your colorful fillings are ready , you just need to fill the eggs! Take the now cold eggs, peel them , and cut them in half .
Remove the yolk and fill the cavity with the prepared fillings . For this operation, you can help yourself by pouring the colored mixtures into pastry bags, making it easier to fill your eggs. Decorate the spring eggs according to your taste before serving !
You can store the boiled eggs in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, but without filling them! Store the fillings inside the pastry bags and also place these in the refrigerator. When it's time to serve, fill your spring eggs!
With the hard-boiled yolks, you can make fantastic Canestrelli !
For the fillings, you can use different vegetables than those proposed, for example, for the green filling, peas, for the red filling, you can use tomato sauce, and for the purple one, purple potatoes.

