name:
Variegated Cocoa Brioches
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(2 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(125 g)
Eggs: 1- (medium)
Butter: 3tbsp(50 g)- (softened)
Vanilla bean: ½
Butter: 0.4cup(100 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 3tbsp(15 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.3tbsp(10 g)
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + rising time

instructions:
To prepare the variegated chocolate brioches, start with the dough. In a stand mixer equipped with a dough hook, combine the sifted flour, dry yeast, and milk , then add the sugar and the whole egg .
Start the mixer and work the dough until smooth, then incorporate half of the seeds extracted from the vanilla bean and the softened butter in pieces, adding the next piece only after the previous one has been fully absorbed . When the dough is smooth and homogeneous, transfer it to the work surface and handle it just long enough to shape it into a sphere, then let it rise in a warm place for 2 hours in a lightly buttered bowl covered with plastic wrap . In the meantime, prepare the cocoa block. In the stand mixer now equipped with a paddle attachment, place the butter in pieces and the flour ,
then add the remaining pulp of the vanilla bean, the cocoa , and mix until you obtain a thick and compact cream . Wrap the cocoa block with a sheet of parchment paper and, with the help of a rolling pin, roll it out to obtain a rectangle of 4x6 inches and about 1/5 inch thick . Place it in the refrigerator to rest for at least 20 minutes.
After the 2 hours, work the dough on a lightly floured work surface and roll it out with a rolling pin until you obtain a rectangle of 9x6 inches . At this point, remove the parchment paper from the cocoa block and place it in the center of the rolled-out dough, aligning the short side with the long side of the underlying dough . Proceed with the first double fold, bringing the short sides of the dough to the center to close the pastry around the block .
Roll out the dough with the rolling pin until you obtain a rectangle of approximately 10x12 inches , then proceed with a triple fold: once again bring the two short sides of the dough toward the center , then fold it in half following the same direction .
Flatten it slightly with the rolling pin, wrap it in plastic wrap , and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. After the necessary time has passed, roll out the dough perpendicularly to the previous fold, into a sheet of about 20x8 inches . Use a knife to trim the edges of the strip obtained and divide it in half to obtain two strips of 10x8 inches.
Now roll up the strips starting from the short side , then cut them into rolls about 2 inches thick : you should obtain 8 in total. Brush the aluminum molds with a bit of softened butter
and place a roll of dough in each one . Place all the molds on a baking sheet and let them rest at room temperature for 10 minutes , then bake them in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 25 minutes (if using a fan oven, at 320°F for 15 minutes). Your variegated cocoa brioches are ready to be enjoyed .
You can store the brioches for 2-3 days at room temperature, under a glass dome or in a tin container.
You can enrich the cocoa block with flavors of your choice: try, for example, cinnamon to make cinnamon rolls, or grating the zest of an orange for a perfect combination!

