name:
Cocoa cake with zabaglione cream
ingredients:
Eggs: 4- (at room temperature)
Sugar: 5oz(140 g)
Sweetened cocoa powder: 6.7tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp(10 g)
Marsala wine: 0.8cup(200 g)
Egg yolks: 6
Sugar: 0.8cup(160 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.2oz(5 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Dark chocolate: 0.7oz(20 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2 ¾tbsp(40 g)
Dark chocolate 70%: 15- sheets
Chocolate truffles: 11- with milk

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Note + the resting time in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the cocoa cake with zabaglione cream, soak the gelatin sheets in a container with cold water for at least 10 minutes . Bring the marsala to a boil in a saucepan to release the alcoholic part . In a bowl, beat the eggs together with the sugar using an electric mixer or whisk .
Add the sifted flour , mixing well to avoid lumps; pour the mixture into the hot marsala, lowering the heat . Thicken the mixture, then turn off the heat; squeeze the gelatin sheets and add them to the hot cream
and mix to dissolve completely . Transfer the cream to a bowl and cover with plastic wrap in contact , letting it cool to room temperature and then in the refrigerator.
Now, prepare the cocoa sponge cake: take the eggs and separate the yolks from the whites. In the bowl of a stand mixer equipped with whisks, pour the egg whites at room temperature ; start working them, then add half the granulated sugar . Set aside the whipped egg whites and work the yolks with the remaining sugar using the stand mixer or an electric mixer ;
Stop the mixer and gradually add the whipped egg whites to the yolk mixture , mixing everything .
Combine the sifted flour, baking powder , and cocoa , then mix with a spatula until you obtain a dense and homogeneous batter,
which you will transfer to a previously greased and lined 9-inch springform pan with parchment paper ; level the surface with a spatula and bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 40 minutes (or at 300°F for 30 minutes if using a fan oven). Once ready , remove the cake from the oven and let it cool completely.
Remove the zabaglione cream from the refrigerator and revive it by working it with an electric mixer, then whip the cream and add it to the now cold cream ; add it gradually, mixing gently from bottom to top to prevent the mixture from deflating .
Once finished , place it in the refrigerator to cool in a piping bag without a nozzle, to which you can make a hole. When the cake is cold, cut it into 3 equal parts with a knife (26-27);
fill the base of the cocoa sponge cake with part of the zabaglione cream with the help of the piping bag and cover it by placing the second layer ; also fill the second layer with more cream, then cover the cake with the third and final layer .
Now proceed with decorating the cake. Place the remaining zabaglione cream in a small bowl and spread it on the sides of the cake with a spatula ; put the remaining cream in a piping bag with a star nozzle and decorate the surface, making puffs along the edge . Once completed, chill the cake in the refrigerator for 1 hour. Then adhere the chocolate sheets all around, placing them obliquely next to each other .
Still using the zabaglione cream, make decorative puffs along the base , then focus on the ganache: bring the fresh cream to a boil in a saucepan, then add the chopped dark chocolate . Turn off the heat and mix with the whisks until the chocolate is completely melted.
Place the ganache you have obtained in a bowl and let it cool slightly , then pour it in the center of the cake to cover the undecorated surface . Level it with a spatula ,
finally, distribute the chocolate truffles on the cream puffs, alternating them (keep one aside for the final decoration). With the remaining cream, create two straight parallel lines (11-12),
finally, place the remaining milk truffle on the ganache , which will serve as a base to place the chocolate sheet . Once finished, place the cake in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour, after which you can serve your splendid and delicious cocoa cake with zabaglione cream !
It is recommended to store the cocoa cake with zabaglione cream for up to 4 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap. You can freeze the cake once assembled.
Want to give your cake a pleasant exotic touch? Try replacing the marsala with coconut liqueur and taste the goodness!

