name:
Red velvet heart with coffee mousse
ingredients:
Butter: ½cup(115 g)- (softened)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tsp(10 g)
Food coloring: 2tbsp(30 g)- (liquid) red
Eggs: 2- (medium)
Vanilla bean: 1
Natural plain yogurt: ¾cup(200 g)- (thick)
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Baking soda: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Coffee beans: 1.1oz(30 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2.1cups(550 g)
White chocolate: 2.3cups(400 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + cooling of the ganache and setting of the cake (from a few hours to overnight)

instructions:
To prepare the red velvet heart with coffee mousse, start with the mousse: in a saucepan, pour 1 cup of cream and the coffee beans , then place on the heat and simmer gently for 10 minutes. Then turn off and let it infuse for at least 1 hour. Roughly chop the white chocolate and set aside. Once the infusion time has passed, strain the cream to remove the coffee beans
Add the granulated sugar , reheat, stir, and pour the hot cream over the chopped white chocolate and stir until completely melted. Then let the mixture cool, covering with cling film in contact. Then whip the cream in a stand mixer or with an electric beater.
Incorporate it into the now cold cream , then cover again with cling film and leave to set in the fridge for 3 hours (better still if overnight). Meanwhile, focus on the batter: in a stand mixer, add the butter and half the sugar and work it all with the whisk until you get a light and fluffy mixture.
At this point, add the eggs one at a time , then when they are absorbed, add the other half of the sugar . Add the cocoa to the batter,
also add the vanilla bean seeds and the food coloring . Sift the flour and baking soda
Then add the dry ingredients to the mixture one tablespoon at a time , continuing to work with the beaters until they are completely absorbed. Meanwhile, in a small bowl, mix the yogurt with the salt and add it to the batter , mixing with a spatula to blend it thoroughly.
Grease with a kitchen brush two heart-shaped bottomless molds measuring 8 inches . Place the molds on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and pour the batter inside , leveling it with a spatula. Then bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 25-30 minutes (320°F for 15-20 minutes if fan-forced). When the hearts are cooked, take them out and let them cool completely on a wire rack .
Once completely cool, with a long knife, trim about 1/16 inch from the top of the hearts (to remove the darkest and most irregular part) and set aside: it will be used for decoration. Then divide each heart in half to get a total of 4 bases. At this point, you can fill the cake: place the coffee mousse in a piping bag with a smooth nozzle and fill the first base, distributing the cream from the edge to the center .
Cover with another heart base and continue with a layer of cream, then proceed with the other two bases and the cream until finishing with a layer of coffee cream , spreading the remaining cream also on the edges of the cake with a spatula . Before moving on to the rest of the decoration, place the cake in the refrigerator for 5-6 hours (or in the freezer for 4 hours).
Once the necessary time has passed, crush the top layer of the bases that you set aside and with the resulting powder, decorate the sides of the red velvet . You can complete the decoration of the heart as you wish: for example, we chose to make whipped cream tufts created with a piping bag with a star nozzle and place red sugar hearts
To make the red velvet heart even more delicious, we made white chocolate shavings with a vegetable peeler and distributed them evenly on the surface of the cake . All that's left is to enjoy the red velvet heart with coffee mousse with your beloved !
The red velvet heart with coffee mousse keeps for 3 days in the refrigerator, under a glass dome so it doesn't dry out or absorb fridge odors.
It can be kept in the freezer after decorating with the cream, for about 1 week, then thawed in the refrigerator before decorating and serving.
The mousse can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
You can fill the red velvet heart with the cream of your choice, such as chantilly or a chocolate pastry cream. If you want to make the coffee mousse even more aromatic, try leaving a few cardamom pods in infusion along with the beans!

