name:
Rice noodles with vegetables and caramelized chicken
ingredients:
Rice spaghetti: 3.5oz(100 g)- black
Rice spaghetti: 3.5oz(100 g)- white
Chicken breast: 8.8oz(250 g)- (in thin slices)
Leeks: 1.1cups(100 g)
Carrots: 2.5oz(70 g)
Zucchini: 0.9cup(100 g)
Fresh ginger: 1oz(30 g)
Soy sauce: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Almond slices: 0.375oz(10 g)
Vegetable oil: 1filo
Soy sauce: 2tbsp(30 g)
Tabasco®: to taste
Honey: 2tbsp(40 g)
Lime peel: 1
Lime juice: 1tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the chicken marinating time

instructions:
To prepare the rice noodles with vegetables and caramelized chicken, start with the chicken: cut the chicken breast slices into strips and place them in a large deep tray and drizzle them with soy sauce , a few drops of Tabasco
the honey , the zest and juice (5-6) of an untreated lime. Mix well to ensure the strips are moistened with the marinade;
Then cover with plastic wrap and let rest for an hour in the refrigerator. Move on to the vegetables, trying to cut them all to the same thickness: clean the leek by removing the green part and the roots and peel off the outermost layer . Then cut it into julienne strips
Wash and trim the zucchini , then slice them with a mandoline or a knife and then cut each slice into strips .
Trim and peel the carrot with a vegetable peeler , cut it into slices also with a mandoline and each slice into sticks ; peel the ginger
and also cut it into slices and then into strips ; in a wok or a high-sided non-stick pan, pour the vegetable oil and heat it slightly, then add the ginger and leek first , then add the carrots and drizzle with soy sauce. Stir and cook over high heat for 2 minutes.
also add the zucchini and continue cooking for another 5 minutes : the vegetables should remain crispy. In another wok pan, pour the chicken with its marinade and cook it over high heat for 5 minutes ; the marinade should reduce
and when it has a nice caramelized golden color, you can transfer it to a plate and keep it warm until ready to use. Toast the flaked almonds for a few moments in a non-stick pan and then set them aside . Then boil the white and black rice noodles in a pot with plenty of boiling water (it should simmer gently) slightly salted for the minutes indicated on the package .
Drain the noodles and sauté them for a few moments in the wok with the vegetables ; turn off the heat and also add the chicken , mix and transfer the rice noodles with vegetables and caramelized chicken to the serving plates, garnish with the toasted flaked almonds before serving .
Store the rice noodles with vegetables and caramelized chicken for 1 day in the refrigerator in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you want to make the rice noodles more appetizing, you can add crispy diced bacon. And... let your imagination run wild in choosing the vegetables!

