name:
Charlotte with dark chocolate mousse
ingredients:
Eggs: 2
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Sugar: to taste
Dark chocolate: 2cups(360 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(280 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Dark chocolate 70%: to taste- sheets

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note plus 1 hour of refrigeration

instructions:
To make the charlotte with dark chocolate mousse, start by preparing the base for the ladyfingers: separate the yolks from the whites, in the bowl of a stand mixer equipped with beaters, pour the egg whites turn on the machine and start whisking, also add the sugar gradually and whisk until the egg whites are white and shiny ,
then incorporate the yolks one at a time until everything is whipped. Finally, add the sifted flour and mix with a spatula to combine the ingredients.
Then transfer the mixture into a piping bag. Now line a baking sheet with parchment paper and place a steel ring with a diameter of 7 inches on top, squeeze the mixture inside creating a disc that will be the base of the charlotte, sprinkle the surface with sugar and bake in a preheated static oven at 374°F for 10 minutes (or in a convection oven at 338°F for about 8 minutes). Squeeze the remaining mixture onto another baking sheet lined with parchment paper creating ladyfingers 2½ inches long you will get about 24.
Also sprinkle the surface of the ladyfingers with sugar , bake the ladyfingers in a preheated static oven at 374°F for 10 minutes (or in a convection oven at 338°F for about 8 minutes). Once baking is complete, remove the ladyfingers and the base from the oven and let them cool. With a small knife, detach the edge of the base from the steel ring without removing it , it will be needed to firm up the cream.
Now focus on the mousse: chop the dark chocolate , bring the water to a boil in a saucepan, add the chocolate and emulsify with a spatula, transfer the chocolate mixture to a bowl and immerse it in a larger bowl filled with ice.
Whip the mixture with electric beaters for about 10-15 minutes or until it is whipped and cold. Transfer the mousse into a piping bag, use the ladyfinger disc as a base and squeeze the mousse on top , inside the 7-inch diameter ring and level the surface with a spatula , let the dessert set in the refrigerator for 1 hour.
Once the charlotte is set, remove the steel ring by slightly detaching the edges with a small knife . Position the ladyfingers vertically around the perimeter of the mousse, one next to the other . Whip the fresh liquid cream with beaters and transfer it into a piping bag with a star nozzle: squeeze a circle of cream on the edge of the charlotte
and then a tuft in the center . Finish by placing two sheets in the center and wrap the charlotte with dark chocolate mousse with a satin ribbon .
Store the charlotte with dark chocolate mousse in the fridge for a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
The base can be flavored with a liquor syrup or a non-alcoholic one.
Also, check out our delicious cake with chocolate mousse!

