name:
Chocolate Brownie Sandwich
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
Hazelnuts: ½cup(60 g)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(100 g)
Butter: 0.8cup(175 g)
Eggs: 2
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(5 g)
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Sugar: 3 ½tbsp(40 g)
Wheat starch: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Vanilla bean: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + cooling of the brownie and cream

instructions:
To make the brownie sandwiches, start with the brownie batter: coarsely chop the chocolate , place it in a double boiler , add the butter in pieces , and completely melt the chocolate over low heat.
Sift the flour with the baking powder , in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk, place the whole eggs and sugar , and whip until you obtain a light and frothy mixture ,
pour the chocolate into it while whipping, then add the sifted dry ingredients one tablespoon at a time , without stopping the mixer. Coarsely chop the hazelnuts
add them to the batter , transfer the mixture into a greased and parchment-lined 12x14 inch rectangular pan (alternatively, you can use a 9-inch round mold). Spread the mixture evenly
bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 20 minutes, once baked, take the base out of the oven and let it cool , then unmold it and place it in the refrigerator, once cold it will be easier to cut without crumbling. In the meantime, prepare the milk cream: heat 1¾ cups of milk in a saucepan , add the sugar .
Slice the vanilla pod lengthwise and extract the seeds by scraping with a knife ; add them to the milk , meanwhile dissolve the cornstarch in ⅓ cup of cold milk
then pour it into the saucepan , thicken the cream by continuously stirring with a whisk, it should have the consistency of an English cream that should "coat" the spoon, transfer it into a bowl , cover with plastic wrap on contact , and place it in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour.
After this time, take out the cream that will have thickened well , put it in a piping bag, and store it in the fridge. Take the brownie base out of the fridge, remove the parchment paper , trim the edges of the brownie, and cut it into 40 rectangles measuring 1x2½ inches .
Fill one rectangle by squeezing the milk cream , close it with another rectangle to create a sandwich , continue until you finish the brownies . Keep them in the refrigerator until ready to serve.
Store the brownie sandwiches in the refrigerator for up to 5 days (leave them at room temperature for a few minutes before consuming). You can freeze the sandwiches or the cream and brownies separately.
If you prefer a slightly sweeter taste, you can serve the brownies dusted with powdered sugar on the surface. Alternatively, you can further flavor the cream by adding orange zest.

