name:
Cipollata
ingredients:
Water: 6.3cups(1.5 l)
Pork ribs: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Ground black pepper: 10
Rosemary: 1sprig
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
White onions: 5cups(800 g)
Pancetta: 2.5oz(70 g)
Sausage: 1.75oz(50 g)
Olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Bread: 8slices

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the cipollata, start by washing and peeling the carrots and celery, then cut them into large pieces . In a large pot, pour the water, add the ribs , the chopped vegetables, and the garlic ,
the rosemary, whole peppercorns , and salt. Cover with the lid and cook for 2 hours over moderate heat until the meat falls off the bone. Towards the end of cooking, start taking care of the onions: peel and slice them thinly ,
then rinse them under running water and drain them. Meanwhile, cut the bacon into strips and the sausage into pieces .
In a saucepan, heat the olive oil, add the sausage and bacon , sauté for a minute, then add the sliced onions , and cook for 6-7 minutes.
Take two ladles of broth from the pot with the ribs and drizzle over the onions, then cover with the lid and continue cooking until the onions are soft. Meanwhile, the ribs will be cooked: remove them
detach the meat from the bone and cut it into pieces . Add the meat to the onions , stir, and cook for another 20 minutes over moderate heat with the lid on.
When cooking is complete , turn off the heat and prepare the croutons: slice a loaf of bread, place the slices on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, drizzle them with a little olive oil , and toast under the grill for about 4 minutes at 425°F until golden . Serve the hot cipollata in a tureen accompanied by the toasted bread slices.
Store the cipollata in the refrigerator for a couple of days in an airtight container; you can freeze it if you used fresh ingredients.
Try also the version with sauce: just add tomato purée to the onions, in this case, less broth will be needed to stew them.

