name:
Cocoa tart with ricotta and chocolate cream
ingredients:
Butter: 1cup(225 g)- (cold from the refrigerator)
Type 00 flour: 3.67cups(450 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 9tbsp(45 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ⅔cup(195 g)
Egg yolks: 5
Dark chocolate: 3.2oz(90 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 3cups(750 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 1
Vanilla bean: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6
Note + the resting time in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the cocoa tart with ricotta and chocolate cream, start with the cocoa shortcrust pastry; sift the flour , the bitter cocoa powder , and the powdered sugar, then pour the dry ingredients into a mixer along with the cold butter cut into cubes . Blend everything until you get a sandy and floury mixture,
then add the egg yolks and continue blending. Transfer the dough (which will still be floury and not mixed) onto a work surface and knead vigorously with your hands until you get a rather compact and smooth dough .
Form a dough ball, wrap it in cling film , and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the ricotta and chocolate cream: place the ricotta, granulated sugar , and the seeds of a vanilla pod in a mixer with blades.
Add 1 egg and blend until you get a thick and homogeneous mixture . Transfer the cream to a bowl and add the finely chopped chocolate ;
mix with a spatula , cover with cling film and place in the refrigerator. After the necessary time , roll out the cocoa dough with a rolling pin, using as little flour as possible, to a thickness of about 1/4 inch forming a circle .
With a brush, lightly butter a 9.5-10 inch cake tin (alternatively, you can use a tart pan) . With the help of a rolling pin, line the tin with the shortcrust pastry , making sure the edges adhere well .
Cut off the excess dough, keeping the edge at least 3/4 inch high: set aside and recompact the scraps, you will need them for the final decoration . Poke the bottom with the prongs of a fork , and cover with a sheet of parchment paper that you will fill with dried legumes or porcelain spheres for blind baking . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 20 minutes (or at 315°F for 12 minutes if using a convection oven). After this time, remove the ceramic spheres (or legumes) and parchment paper and let it bake for another 5 minutes at the same temperature. Once ready, take it out of the oven and let it cool.
Pour the ricotta cream inside the now cooled shortcrust (you can also place the filling in a piping bag without a nozzle, making a hole) and level the filling with a spoon . Roll out the leftover shortcrust on a lightly floured work surface and cut strips about 1/4 inch wide and 1/16 inch thick with a fluted pastry wheel .
Arrange the shortcrust strips on the ricotta cream diagonally to form a lattice pattern . Bake again in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 10-15 minutes (or at 315°F for 8-10 minutes if using a convection oven). Once ready, let it cool completely; finally, you can serve your cocoa tart with ricotta and chocolate cream .
You can store the cocoa tart with ricotta and chocolate cream in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, covered with cling film or placed in an airtight container. When you need to serve it, let it rest at room temperature for at least 15 minutes before offering it. It can be frozen if you have used fresh, non-defrosted ingredients.
Do you want to give your tart a pleasant citrus aroma? Simple! Just add grated orange zest to the ricotta cream along with the dark chocolate: it will be a delight!

