name:
Fried Calamari
ingredients:
Calamari (squid): 1.8lbs(800 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare fried calamari, start with the cleaning of the calamari: rinse them under plenty of fresh running water , then with your hands gently detach the head from the mantle . Once the head is extracted, still with your hands, look for the transparent cartilage quill located in the mantle and gently extract it .
Pass the calamari again under running water , wash it thoroughly, and use your hands to extract the innards from the mantle. Then proceed to remove the outer skin: make a small incision at the end of the mantle with a knife, just enough to grab an edge of the skin, and peel off the covering completely with your hands or with the help of a knife . To finish cleaning the mantle, still with a knife, remove the fins .
Cut the mantle into rings with a thickness of 0.2 inches or alternatively, you can cut thin strips: open the mantle like a book, make an incision at the end with a knife, divide it in half, and cut strips . Take the tentacles and remove the central tooth by opening them outward with your hands and pushing up the central part (the mouth) ,
then place everything in a colander to remove excess water . Now take care of the breading: distribute the flour on a tray , then place the calamari rings ,
mixing them so that the breading adheres well on all sides . Pass them in a colander to remove excess flour . Place a large pot on the stove with oil for frying, checking that the temperature reaches 338°F with the help of a kitchen thermometer. At this point, fry the breaded rings a few at a time for 3-4 minutes , until they are golden and crispy.
Drain them with a slotted spoon and place them on a tray lined with paper towels to drain excess oil . Season with salt to taste and serve your fried calamari hot and fresh !
It is recommended to consume fried calamari hot and fresh. Freezing is not recommended.
Looking for the perfect side dish for your fried calamari? Try a mixed salad, a dice of sautéed vegetables, or classic roasted potatoes!

