name:
Polenta with stewed octopus and sautéed herbs
ingredients:
Octopus: 1lb(750 g)- (fresh)
Tomato purée: 0.6cup(150 g)
Water: 1.67cups(400 g)
Shallot: 1
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sage: 2sprigs
Thyme: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Bramata corn flour: 2.1cups(250 g)
Water: 2.1cups(500 g)
Coarse salt: to taste
Swiss chard: 8.3cups(300 g)
Black pepper: 0.35tsp(2 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the polenta with stewed octopus and herbs, start by bringing a pot with 17.5 oz of salted water to a boil. Then proceed with How to Clean and Cook Octopus . After rinsing it under cold running water, place it on a cutting board and remove the beak: with a small knife, cut around the mouth, dig inside, and extract the beak . Also, remove the sack at eye level, then remove the head . Tenderize the octopus meat by pounding it with a meat tenderizer, a meat pounder, or a kitchen utensil for 10 minutes, to break the fibers and make the meat more tender. Rinse the octopus again under cold running water and extract the innards from the sack, then wash it thoroughly inside. Divide the octopus in half ,
separate each tentacle and cut them together with the head into cubes and strips . Clean and slice the shallot into thin rings .
In a non-stick pot with olive oil, place a garlic head and the shallot to fry; when it's well browned, remove the garlic . Add the octopus and let it brown for 4-5 minutes , then deglaze with white wine .
Tie all the aromatic herbs in a bundle with kitchen string and add it to the octopus , then also pour in the tomato puree and enough water to cover the fish .
Adjust with salt and pepper and cook over low heat for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, take care of the polenta. In a pot, bring salted water to a boil, then pour in the cornmeal gradually, stirring continuously with a whisk ; mix well and cover with a lid : cook the polenta over low heat for 35-40 minutes, stirring it occasionally with a wooden spoon (if necessary, adding a spoonful of water). In the meantime, prepare the side dish; wash the herbs under running water, drain, and dry them.
Place them on a cutting board and chop them coarsely , then sauté them with garlic in a pan with olive oil , season with salt and pepper, and cook for 5-6 minutes. Once ready, remove the garlic head and keep them warm.
When both the polenta and the octopus are ready, remove the herb bundle from the latter and place a portion of herbs and a generous spoonful of polenta on a serving plate . Finally, place some octopus with the cooking sauce on top of the polenta : your polenta with stewed octopus and sautéed herbs is ready to be served.
You can store stewed octopus in the fridge for 2 days in an airtight container. Once the polenta is added, it is best to consume the dish immediately. Freezing is not recommended.
Pay attention to the yellow cornmeal you choose: if instead of the regular one you take the instant one for polenta, the cooking times will be significantly reduced. Also, if you want to try this dish in a spicy version, mince a fresh chili pepper into the stewed octopus!

