name:
Butterless Bundt Cake
ingredients:
Extra virgin olive oil: 9 ½tbsp(130 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Eggs: 4- (medium)
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Baking powder: 3 ¼tsp(16 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Orange peel: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the olive oil ring cake, start by placing the room-temperature eggs into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with beaters and add the sugar, with a pinch of salt (you can also use a hand mixer). Turn on the stand mixer and mix well, then add the grated orange zest , followed by the olive oil in a steady stream .
When the oil is absorbed, continue with the room-temperature milk, always pouring it in a steady stream . Then sift the flour and baking powder into a bowl , then gradually add the dry ingredients to the mixture .
You need to obtain a smooth and fluid batter; butter and flour a fairly deep 9.5-inch diameter ring mold. Pour the batter inside using a spatula : distribute it evenly with the help of the spatula and avoid banging the mold to level the batter to not stop the leavening process. Bake the olive oil ring cake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for about 50 minutes (if using a convection oven, bake at 300°F for about 40 minutes); if it tends to darken too much, you can cover it with a sheet of parchment paper after the first 30 minutes of baking. Once baked, do the toothpick test and leave it in the turned-off oven for 5 minutes before removing it . Let it cool slightly, then remove it from the mold and let it cool completely on a rack . Before serving your olive oil ring cake, you can dust it with powdered sugar or decorate it with a Water Glaze .
Store the olive oil ring cake under a glass dome for 3-4 days.
It can be frozen if you've used all fresh, non-defrosted ingredients.


To make this olive oil ring cake richer, you can add dark chocolate chips. Dust them with flour and freeze them for about 1 hour before adding them as the last ingredient to the batter!
• Can the amount of sugar be reduced?
We always recommend not reducing too much since sugar provides structure in addition to sweetness. But a few grams can be reduced, and some dried fruits, like raisins, can be added to the batter!
• For a two-tone ring cake version?
It wouldn’t be enough to just add a bit of cocoa... Cocoa tends to absorb a lot of liquids, so you need to try and adjust accordingly, maybe adding a little cow's or plant-based milk depending on the taste!
• Can liquid quantities be measured in ml?
In pastry, it’s preferred to give weights in grams even for liquids, as this allows for greater accuracy in the doses as sweet and leavened recipes, both sweet and savory, require!
• What oil can be used as an alternative to olive oil?
A seed oil, like sunflower, can be used, which will have a more delicate flavor than olive oil.
• Can small ring cakes be made instead of a single large Bundt cake?
Certainly, just be careful with the baking: times will vary, and you can bake one or two first to better adjust!

