name:
Marbled cocoa muffins with white chocolate chips
ingredients:
Butter: 5.5oz(155 g)- (softened)
Sugar: ¾cup(170 g)
Eggs: 2
Milk: ¾cup(195 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(325 g)
Baking soda: ½tsp(2 g)
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Milk: ⅛cup(30 g)
Sweetened cocoa powder: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
White Chocolate drops: 3.5oz(100 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make marbled cocoa muffins with white chocolate chips, first place the white chocolate chips on a tray and then transfer them to the freezer to freeze. In a bowl, place the softened butter cut into pieces and add the sugar , whisk the mixture with electric beaters , then flavor with the grated zest of 1 untreated lemon and a pinch of salt, continue working until it becomes creamy.
In another bowl, crack the eggs and incorporate 195 ml of milk (milk and eggs should be at room temperature) ; whisk the mixture and add it to the butter mixture , mix with the beaters until the batter is smooth and frothy. Sift the flour directly into the batter ,
the baking soda , and the baking powder . Mix with the beaters to obtain a lump-free batter.
Divide the batter into two bowls , in one add the sifted cocoa and 30 ml of milk , so that it has the same consistency as the light one and bakes similarly;
finally, add the previously frozen and floured white chocolate chips . You will thus obtain two two-tone batters . Mix to combine the mixture. Transfer the batters into two separate disposable piping bags without a nozzle ,
to achieve a marbled effect, place the two piping bags in a larger piping bag , cut the tip, and pour the batter into a 12-muffin tin lined with paper cups, the batter should reach the top . Bake the muffins in a static oven at 356°F for 30 minutes (or in a fan oven at 320°F for 20 minutes). Once baked, remove your marbled cocoa muffins with white chocolate chips from the oven and let them cool slightly before enjoying them .
You can store marbled cocoa muffins with white chocolate chips under a glass dome or in a tin box for 4-5 days. It is possible to freeze the muffins and thaw them at room temperature when needed.
The most indulgent can also fill the light batter with delicious dark chocolate chips.

