name:
Ciceri e tria
ingredients:
Water: 0.7cup(165 g)- (at room temperature)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Dried chickpeas: ¾cup(150 g)
White onions: 3oz(80 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Bay leaves: 3leaves
Vegetable broth: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Vegetable oil: 1cup(250 ml)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 2 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the soaking time for the chickpeas (1 night) and the resting time for the fresh pasta

instructions:
To prepare ciceri e tria, start by soaking the chickpeas in water the night before, so that the skins soften . Then, prepare the vegetable broth; then clean and finely chop the onion. Meanwhile, pour the oil and two whole peeled garlic cloves into a large pot
Remove the garlic as soon as it is well browned, then add the chopped onion and stir with a spatula ; let it wilt over low heat adding water or vegetable broth so it does not stick to the bottom . After about 10 minutes, add the chopped chili pepper (making sure to remove the internal seeds), rosemary, and bay leaf .
Drain the chickpeas and add them to the pot (7-8) and salt to your liking: they should cook covered with a lid for about 2 hours, gradually adding vegetable broth .
In the meantime, work on the pasta: in a bowl sieve the all-purpose flour and the re-milled semolina, then gradually add the room temperature water and the olive oil
Mix with a fork while continuing to add room temperature water to the mixture (13-14); then knead by hand first in the bowl ,
when it has compacted , you can continue to work it on a slightly oiled work surface , until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough, wrap it in plastic wrap , and let it rest for at least 30 minutes at room temperature.
After resting, take the dough and roll it out with a pasta machine using all the levels to create a 2-3 mm thick sheet (you can also use a long rolling pin) . Then change the machine head, to make tagliatelle and then cut them into pieces of 3-4 inches in length .
Twist each piece of pasta to give it a spiral shape and place the pasta on a sieve to dry for at least 2 hours . In a pot, bring the seed oil to a temperature of 340°F (to be measured with a kitchen thermometer); when the pasta has dried, fry 40% of the total (calculated on the total weight of the pasta), a few pieces at a time .
When they are well golden, drain them and place them on a tray lined with paper towels . The remaining pasta can be boiled in plenty of salted water for about 1 minute .
Drain them by adding them directly to the pot with the now-cooked chickpeas , to flavor and mix it with the seasoning. Plate the pasta and chickpeas, garnishing with some fried tria ; your ciceri e tria are ready to be enjoyed !
Store ciceri e tria (the unfried part) in the refrigerator for 1 day in an airtight container. The fried pasta can be stored under a glass dome for up to 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
You can try the tomato variant by adding tomato sauce to the chickpeas during cooking and also flavor it with parsley if you prefer.

