name:
Coconut and Nutella Truffles
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
Nutella: ½cup(120 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(50 g)
Shredded coconut: ½cup(40 g)
Hazelnuts: 32
Water: 1.1oz(30 g)
Sugar: 0.35cup(70 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 32 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time in the refrigerator

instructions:
To make the coconut and Nutella truffles, you first need to caramelize the hazelnuts. In a saucepan, combine the water and sugar , turn on the heat and, using a candy thermometer, bring the caramel to a temperature of 241°F . Turn off the heat and immerse the whole hazelnuts .
Stir until the mixture becomes sandy . At this point, put the saucepan back on the heat and melt the sugar over low heat until it turns amber . Transfer the caramelized hazelnuts onto a tray lined with parchment paper or a silicone mat, separating them to avoid sticking together as they cool .
Now prepare the truffles. Finely chop the chocolate and add it to the hot cream , stirring it with a hand whisk to melt it . Once you have a smooth mixture, blend the Nutella into the chocolate .
Now add the chopped hazelnuts and mix until you get a substantial dough . Transfer the resulting dough into a bowl, covering it with cling film . Let it cool in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes.
After this time, you can assemble the sweets. Divide the dough into 32 pieces, place a hazelnut in the center, and close it to form the heart of the dough. Then, using your palms, shape the truffles into spheres; as you make them, arrange them on a tray lined with parchment paper . Spread the coconut powder on a tray and dip one truffle at a time, ensuring the coconut adheres well to fully cover the surface of the truffles . Your coconut and Nutella truffles are ready : serve them in small paper cups.
You can store the truffles in the refrigerator for two weeks in an airtight container. Take them out of the refrigerator two hours before serving them.
For impeccable truffles, it’s very important to use quality chocolate, so you can also choose to garnish them with just cocoa and powdered sugar.

