name:
Cocoa Pavlova with Chocolate Cream
ingredients:
Egg whites: 0.67cup(150 g)- (at room temperature)
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Lemon juice: 1tbsp(15 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste
Dark chocolate: 4.25oz(120 g)
Egg yolks: 2.1oz(60 g)
Sugar: 6tsp(25 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(130 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(130 g)
Strawberries: 4
Red currants: 1sprig
Blueberries: 10
Raspberries: 10
Mint: 1leaf

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 45 min
Serving: 8
Note + the chilling time in the refrigerator for the chocolate cream

instructions:
To make the cocoa pavlova with chocolate cream, start by preparing the latter. Roughly chop the dark chocolate and set it aside. Pour the milk and cream into a saucepan and bring it to a simmer . In a separate bowl, add the egg yolks and sugar and mix them well with a spatula or whisk.
When the milk and cream reach a simmer, turn off the heat and pour the egg mixture into the pan . Cook the cream in a bain-marie over low heat, ensuring the water below does not touch the bowl . Stir continuously and check with a kitchen thermometer that the temperature reaches 181°F. Once ready, strain the cream through a fine mesh sieve .
Pour the cream over the chopped dark chocolate, stirring gently until completely melted . Blend the cream with an immersion blender, then transfer it to a shallow dish and cover with plastic wrap in contact with the surface. Let the cream cool at room temperature, then place it in the refrigerator for at least 3 hours (better overnight). Then, transfer it to a piping bag with no nozzle, and cut a hole. In a stand mixer with a whisk attachment, add the egg whites ;
start whisking, gradually adding the lemon juice , then gradually add the granulated sugar and the powdered sugar . Continue whisking until stiff peaks form (it will take about 15 minutes). When the meringue is fluffy, firm, and glossy, stop the mixer.
Lightly butter and line a baking sheet with parchment paper (buttering the tray first will hold the parchment paper in place) and gently transfer the meringue , forming a 9-inch nest with raised edges using a spatula or spoon, creating a hollow center to hold the chocolate cream and red fruits . You can create decorative swirls around the edges for a nice decorative pattern after baking. Dust the pavlova with cocoa powder , then bake in a preheated static oven at 212°F for about 1.5 to 2 hours. Leave the oven slightly open for the last 15 minutes, perhaps using a wooden spoon to keep it ajar.
Once cooled, fill the pavlova by spreading the chocolate cream in the center . Rinse the red fruits under plenty of fresh water and decorate the cake by placing them all over the surface ; finally, add the mint leaves: your cocoa pavlova with chocolate cream is ready to be served and enjoyed .
Store the cocoa pavlova with chocolate cream in an airtight container in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended to avoid altering the meringue's texture.
To prepare a meringue with perfect consistency, it is important that the egg whites are at room temperature. Want to make your pavlova even more delicious? You can garnish it with delightful chocolate curls!

