name:
Braised Beef with Artichokes and Sweet Potato Purée
ingredients:
Beef: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- round
Yellow onions: 2
Artichokes: 6
Thyme: 2sprigs
Sage: 3leaves
Garlic: 1clove
Red wine: 2.7oz(80 ml)- (at room temperature)
Meat broth: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sweet potatoes (or yams): 2.9lbs(1.3 kg)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- (to grate)
Nutmeg: to taste- (to grate)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 4 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the braised beef with artichokes and sweet potato purée, put a pot of abundant water on the heat for the Beef Broth (alternatively, you can also prepare Vegetable broth ). Proceed with the How to clean artichokes , remembering to rub your hands with some lemon or wear latex gloves. Starting from the bottom, remove the outermost and hardest leaves and the tip, obtaining only the heart. Clean the stem by removing the end, and with a peeler, remove the outer fibrous layer; cut the hearts in half and remove the dry and hairy part, the choke, with a knife or a corer, running it along the entire bottom part of the artichoke . Cut each artichoke into 4 parts ,
placing them in lemon water to prevent them from browning , then slice the onion thinly . Cut the beef into slices and then
into very large cubes of about 1-1.5 inches . Place a large and sturdy pot on the heat with a drizzle of olive oil. Add the beef cubes with the garlic clove and brown them well on all sides to seal in all the internal juices, turning with kitchen tongs .
Once browned, remove the meat from the pot and place it in a separate bowl covering with cling film to keep it warm. Add a drizzle of oil and the sliced onions to the cooking base , allowing them to soften over low heat along with the thyme and sage .
When the onions are softened, return the meat to the pot, increase the heat, and deglaze with room temperature red wine, allowing it to evaporate . Adjust the salt, then pour the hot broth you have prepared until it covers all the meat, then close with a lid and let it cook on very low heat for about 3 hours. After this time, drain the artichokes from the acidulated water and add them to the braised beef, letting cook for another 40 minutes ,
then, when ready, turn off the heat . Meanwhile, you can prepare the sweet potato purée: boil the potatoes in abundant water (depending on the size, it will take 40 to 90 minutes; you can check the cooking with a skewer); drain them, then peel and mash them directly in the pan with a potato masher or a food mill.
Grate the cheese , turn on the heat, and add it to the purée , adjusting salt and pepper .
Flavor with grated nutmeg and mix with a whisk until you obtain a thick and homogeneous purée ; finally, you can plate and serve your braised beef with artichokes and sweet potato purée .
You can store the braised beef with artichokes and sweet potato purée in the refrigerator for a maximum of 3-4 days in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
An alternative cooking method for the potatoes, to make them less watery, can be baking: wash the potatoes under plenty of running water, wrap them in aluminum foil, and bake them for about 60-90 minutes. Want to make your dish even more special? Try marinating the meat with wine, water, and spices for 12 hours before browning it: you will add even more flavor to the recipe!

