name:
Lemon and Blueberry Poundcake
ingredients:
Butter: 1cup(220 g)- (softened)
Sugar: 1cup(210 g)
Type 00 flour: 2.3cups(290 g)
Eggs: 4- (at room temperature)
Lemon peel: 1
Lemon juice: 3tbsp(40 g)
Blueberries: ½cup(80 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Powdered sugar: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 g)
Mint: to taste
Lemon peel: to taste
Blueberries: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the lemon and blueberry pound cake, zest an untreated lemon , saving a few curls for decoration, and squeeze 1.4 oz of juice. In a stand mixer with blades, place the butter in pieces and sugar and work into a cream (2-3)
Add the eggs, one at a time , making sure the previous one is well incorporated before adding the next. After the second egg, the batter will tend to "curdle" due to the imbalance between fat and liquid, so start alternating a tablespoon of flour, sifted together with the baking powder, with the eggs . Add the salt
Then add the lemon juice and zest and the blueberries, mixing everything with a spatula in a motion from bottom to top . Make sure to keep a few blueberries aside for the final decoration.
Transfer the batter into the greased and parchment-lined 10x4 inch loaf pan and level it . Bake the pound cake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 70 minutes (if using a convection oven, try at 320°F for about 50 minutes, covering with a sheet of parchment paper after 30 minutes of baking if it tends to darken). Perform the toothpick test before removing from the oven and allow it to cool slightly .
Unmold the pound cake and let it cool completely on a wire rack . Then prepare the lemon glaze: in a bowl pour the powdered sugar, add the lemon juice and mix with a spoon .
You should get a viscous and fluid sauce ; if the glaze is too hard, add a bit of lemon juice, and if too fluid, add more powdered sugar. Pour the lemon glaze over the now cooled pound cake (17-18).
Decorate with lemon zest and a few blueberries and serve your lemon and blueberry pound cake !
Store the lemon and blueberry pound cake under a glass dome for 2-3 days.
It can be frozen without the topping if you have used fresh, not thawed ingredients.
Replace some of the blueberries with blackberries or raspberries. Berries with lemon are always a winning combination!

