name:
Trio of brioche bread canapés with shrimp
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(100 g)
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(2 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Water: 1.8oz(50 g)- (at room temperature)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Eggs: 2.8oz(2 g)- (small)
Butter: 2.6oz(75 g)- (softened)
Shrimps: 8- (code)
Lemon juice: 2tsp(10 g)
Chives: 2fili
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Zucchini: 0.4cup(50 g)
Shrimps: 4- (code)
Apple cider vinegar: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Soy sauce: 1tbsp(15 g)
Honey: 0.8tbsp(10 g)
Lime peel: 1
Lime juice: 2tsp(10 g)
Pancetta: 1.4oz(40 g)- (4 thin slices)
Basil: 10tbsp(30 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Lemon juice: 5tsp(25 g)
Vegetable oil: 1cup(250 g)
Apple cider vinegar: 1tsp
Sweet Paprika: 1pinch
Powdered ginger: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the rising time and the cooling time of the brioche bread

instructions:
To make the trio of brioche bread canapés with shrimp, start with the brioche bread: pour the sifted flours into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment . Add the dry yeast (you can also use fresh yeast: in this case, use 6 g), the sugar , and the eggs a little at a time .
Add the water at room temperature , then activate the paddle at medium speed. When the ingredients are well gathered around the paddle, stop the mixer, replace the paddle with the hook, and turn the machine back on; add the salt and softened butter at room temperature in small pieces, a little at a time , waiting for one piece to be absorbed before adding another. Knead the dough with the hook until it is smooth and homogeneous. Transfer the dough to the work surface and shape it into a spherical form. Place it in a large bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise for at least 30 minutes in the oven turned off with the light on.
Brush a 10.2x4.5 inch rectangular mold with butter . Then take the dough and handle it briefly, making folds , and form a loaf of the same dimensions as the mold. Place the brioche bread in the mold and allow it to rise for another 30 minutes covered with plastic wrap (alternatively, you can brush it with beaten egg mixed with a tablespoon of milk).
After the necessary time, close the mold with the appropriate lid to obtain a more rectangular shape (otherwise leave it uncovered and the brioche bread will have more push during baking, it will rise higher) . Bake in a preheated static oven at 338°F (170°C) for 30 minutes (if using a fan oven, bake at 302°F (150°C) for 20 minutes). Once baked, take it out and let it cool slightly, then remove it from the mold and let it cool completely on a wire rack. Once cold, slice it into slices 0.6 inches (1.5 cm) thick , cut off a side strip to form a rectangle
then divide it into two : you will need 12 in total (with the leftover brioche bread, you can make Toasted bread slices or delicious croutons to serve with a soup, for example!). Place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and toast them under the grill at 464°F (240°C) for three minutes (make sure the brioche bread rectangles turn golden without burning, you can turn them halfway through cooking) . Once ready, take them out and let them cool.
For the accompanying sauces, start with the basil reduction: place the basil leaves, add salt, oil , and lemon juice ; then blend everything with an immersion blender .
For the Mayonnaise : pour the yolks, salt, and pepper into a large bowl. Begin to work the yolks with an electric mixer, then pour the oil in a trickle, add the lemon juice , and continue to whisk . If the mayonnaise should "break," set aside the broken mayonnaise and in another container, put another egg yolk; blend it by adding a trickle of oil and then, still in the container, add the broken mayonnaise one teaspoon at a time. You will need to mix always in the same direction until you obtain a thick sauce. Consider that sometimes, for various reasons, it is not possible to calculate the exact amount of oil needed to make mayonnaise, so always have a little extra on hand; another variable can be the choice of the oil itself, which depends on taste and the intended use of the mayonnaise.
Divide the obtained mayonnaise into two small bowls and flavor one with paprika and the other with powdered ginger .
For the 4 shrimp tartare canapés: clean the shrimp by shelling them (1-2), then cut along the back and remove the intestine, the black thread, perhaps using a toothpick : repeat this operation for the shrimp quantity for the entire recipe.
Squeeze the lemon juice and pour it into a small bowl (4-5); also add the oil in a thread, emulsifying with a hand whisk . Add salt and pepper to taste.
Then chop 4 of the cleaned shrimp and place them in another small bowl; chop the chives and add the oil and lemon emulsion to the chopped shrimp . Set aside in the fridge covered with plastic wrap until ready to use.
For the 4 shrimp tartare canapés: you can decide to further divide the brioche bread by making small squares, then sprinkle the toasted surface with the basil reduction , add the tartare , and decorate with a piece of chive .
For the 4 zucchini and shrimp canapés: wash and trim the zucchini, then slice it with a mandolin to obtain 4 fairly thin slices ; place them in a deep-bottomed baking dish and marinate them with oil, apple cider vinegar , salt, and pepper. After 10-15 minutes, you can drain the zucchini well and set them aside. Meanwhile, also prepare the shrimp: place 4 shrimp tails in a small bowl, add the soy sauce
then also pour the honey , the zest and juice of the lime , the thyme leaves. You can caramelize the shrimp with the marinade in a pan for a few minutes . Then turn off the heat and set the shrimp aside.
For the 4 zucchini and shrimp canapés: spread the brioche bread with ginger mayonnaise , create a zucchini rose by rolling the slice vertically , and place the caramelized shrimp on top . Or simply wrap the shrimp tail with the zucchini slice.
For the 4 shrimp and bacon canapés: after shelling the shrimp , wrap them in bacon slices and sear them for 1 minute per side in a non-stick pan so that the bacon becomes crispy on the outside.
For the 4 shrimp and bacon canapés: spread the brioche bread with paprika mayonnaise , you can divide the shrimp if you prefer , and place them on the brioche bread .
It is advisable to assemble the canapés at the moment of serving or at most 1-2 hours in advance to preserve the freshness of the preparation.
Store the cooked brioche bread in a freezer bag for up to 1 week.
You can freeze it after the first rising. Then thaw the raw dough in the refrigerator and let it rise to room temperature before baking it.

Create the canapés by combining the ingredients based on your imagination and taste: robiola, salmon, and lime juice for example, or even gorgonzola cheese, apples, and walnuts!

