name:
Cocoa gaufre with mandarin cream
ingredients:
Eggs: 2- (medium)
Whole milk: ¼cup(65 g)
Butter: ½cup(125 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(130 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: ¼cup(30 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(4 g)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(50 g)
Mandarin orange peel: 2- (unprocessed)
Egg yolks: 3
Sugar: 6tbsp(70 g)
Cornstarch: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Note + the resting time for the mandarin cream

instructions:
To make the cocoa waffles with mandarin cream, start by preparing the latter. Wash the mandarins and use a peeler to remove the zest . Put a saucepan on the stove with the milk , add the mandarin zest , cover with a lid, and bring to a boil. Turn off the heat and let it infuse covered for at least 1 hour.
In the meantime, in a separate bowl, beat the egg yolks with the sugar and the cornstarch . Mix well with a whisk until you get a homogeneous mixture.
After the necessary time, remove the mandarin zest from the hot milk and add the cream. Pour the egg yolk mixture you prepared into the milk and cream mixture and mix everything, then put it back on the stove until the cream thickens. Once ready, pour the cream into a container and let it cool completely,
covering it with cling film in contact . In the meantime, prepare the cocoa waffle batter: melt the butter (in the microwave or in a double boiler) and let it cool slightly. In a bowl, crack the eggs, then temper them with the milk using a whisk . Also, add the melted butter now cooled and
the sugar, continuing to mix . In a separate container, sift the flour together with the baking powder and the unsweetened cocoa .
Add the sifted dry ingredients to the eggs and mix until you get a smooth batter without lumps. Heat the waffle iron and pour a ladle of batter for each portion, spreading it evenly on the plate . Close the plate and let it cook for 3-4 minutes: with ours, you should get 4 waffles. Once ready ,
pour the now cold mandarin cream over the waffles and finish with a dusting of powdered sugar : your waffles with mandarin cream are ready to be served hot !
It is recommended to consume the cocoa waffles filled immediately while hot and to store them in the refrigerator for up to 1 day. You can store the cream in the refrigerator covered with film for a couple of days or the unfilled waffles under a glass dome for a couple of days.
Do you want to add even more flavor to your waffles? Try flavoring the batter with the grated zest of a mandarin!

