name:
Pouches with burrata, artichokes, and tomato sauce
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Eggs: 2- (large)
Burrata cheese: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Artichokes: 4
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Water: to taste
Lemon juice: to taste
Cherry tomatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Basil: 2leaves
Chives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time of the fresh pasta

instructions:
To prepare the pouches with burrata, artichokes, and tomato sauce, start with the fresh pasta: arrange the flour in a fountain on a work surface (you can also pour the ingredients into a bowl to work them), break the eggs in the center and start mixing with a fork , then once the eggs are absorbed, proceed by hand kneading energetically until you obtain a smooth dough.
Form a dough ball and wrap it in cling film , then let the pasta rest at room temperature for about 30 minutes. Meanwhile, you can clean the artichokes: wear disposable food-grade gloves or rub your hands with lemon so they don't darken during cleaning. Trim the artichokes by cutting off the pointed top and peeling them until you reach the more tender leaves . Then clean the stem by removing the outermost part and immerse the cleaned artichokes in a bowl with water and lemon so they don’t darken .
At this point, cut the artichokes in half and with a small knife remove the internal choke , then julienne them . Drizzle a pan with a little olive oil and brown a clove of garlic (you can fry it whole if you want to remove it later or minced, as you prefer); then add the artichokes , season with salt and pepper to taste to flavor them. Add a little water to stew them (or deglaze with white wine) and let them cook for 5-10 minutes to soften. At the end of cooking, add a few thyme leaves. Take the burrata from the refrigerator, cut it into pieces, and place it in a colander to drain the excess whey.
Retrieve the fresh pasta, divide it to pass 100-150 g at a time through the pasta machine (you can also roll it out with a long rolling pin), setting from the lowest to the highest level to obtain a very thin sheet . Then cut squares of 5 inches from the rectangles obtained with a pasta cutter: you should get 20. Carefully butter a muffin tin that will be used to cook the pouches
then dip one or two squares of pasta in boiling water (the water should simmer) for a few moments and drain them , pass them in a bowl with cold water , then lay them out on a tray slightly greased with oil (so the pasta rectangles do not stick to the bottom as they dry) .
Fill 10 squares of fresh pasta with a little artichokes and a few pieces of burrata , place another square of pasta rotated by 45° on top , then place each filled pouch in the muffin tin and close it with two strands of chives . Bake them for 2 minutes on grill mode.
For the tomato sauce, wash thoroughly and cut the cherry tomatoes in half or quarters ; then place them in a pan where you have lightly fried a halved clove of garlic (so it will be easier to remove later); season with salt and pepper, cook the cherry tomatoes for a few minutes to soften them then flavor with basil leaves.
Then pass the obtained sauce through a food mill and set aside, just in time to remove the cooked pouches from the oven . Place the sauce on the bottom of a serving platter or baking dish and lay the burrata and artichoke pouches on top, to be served piping hot .
Consume the pouches with burrata, artichokes with tomato sauce immediately. The pouches can be frozen if you have used fresh, non-defrosted products.

If the tomato sauce turns out too watery, you can thicken it on the stove!

