name:
Sweet potato gnocchi
ingredients:
Sweet potatoes (or yams): 2.9lbs(1.3 kg)
Type 00 flour: 2.9cups(360 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make sweet potato gnocchi, boil the potatoes with the skin for 20 minutes , they should be cooked only on the outside, they will finish cooking in the oven which will dry them out to prevent them from releasing water into the dough. Once cooked, drain the potatoes and cut them into slices about 0.4 inches thick , remove the skin .
Place them on a baking tray covered with parchment paper , cook them in a preheated convection oven at 356°F for 30 minutes (or in a static oven at 392°F for 20 minutes). Once cooked , mash the potatoes with a ricer to reduce them to a puree and add them to the sifted flour on a work surface , add a pinch of salt.
At this point, you can work the dough until you get a compact mixture, shape it into a loaf , and cover it with a cloth .
Then, with a dough scraper, divide the dough into pieces and create rolls about 1 inch thick , start cutting your gnocchi and place them on a surface or a floured tray.
Finally, make the characteristic ridges of the gnocchi by sliding each gnocco on a gnocchi board or a fork and pressing a bit, but not too much. The gnocchi are ready to be boiled: place a pot full of salted water on the stove and bring it to a boil, drop in the gnocchi and cook them for a few minutes, drain them when they start to emerge on the surface . Your gnocchi are ready to be accompanied by the sauces and gravies you prefer !
Once cooked, store the sweet potato gnocchi in the refrigerator, closed in an airtight container, for a couple of days at most. You can prepare the gnocchi in advance and freeze them before cooking: place them on a tray and then, when they are frozen, transfer them to the appropriate food bags. This way, you will avoid the gnocchi "sticking" to each other.
The secret to perfect gnocchi is to knead when the potatoes are still hot and quickly, otherwise the dough will be sticky and unworkable.

