name:
Mini Paris-Brest with cocoa and chocolate cream
ingredients:
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 8 ¾tbsp(70 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 1tsp
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Eggs: 2- (medium)
Fine salt: to taste
Sugar: 1.6tbsp(20 g)
Almond slices: 1.1oz(30 g)
Dark chocolate: 1.4oz(40 g)- (chopped)
Whole milk: ¾cup(165 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Sugar: 9 ½tbsp(40 g)
Cornstarch: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(180 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the mini Paris-Brest with cocoa and chocolate cream, start with the cream: pour the milk into a saucepan and bring it to a boil, then turn off the heat. In a separate bowl, add the egg yolks and powdered sugar ,
whisk them together and then add the sifted cornstarch and mix to combine thoroughly. Add a couple of tablespoons of hot milk to the mixture to temper it
then pour everything into the pot with the milk . Add the butter and chopped dark chocolate , bring the mixture back to the heat and allow it to thicken over low heat, stirring continuously. Transfer the cream to a baking dish ,
cover with plastic wrap in contact with the surface , let it cool, and then transfer it to the fridge to set. Proceed to prepare the choux pastry: sift the flour and unsweetened cocoa powder into a bowl.
In a saucepan, pour the water and bring it to a boil over low heat, add the butter in pieces , the dry ingredients
stir gently with a wooden spoon until a film forms on the bottom and a smooth, firm mixture that detaches from the sides is formed. Transfer the dough to a stand mixer equipped with a paddle attachment , turn on the machine, and incorporate one egg at a time , waiting to add the next one if the previous one hasn't been absorbed.
Continue working until the dough is firm and stable . Transfer the choux pastry into a piping bag fitted with a plain 0.6 to 0.8-inch diameter tip, pipe the dough onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper to form 4 rings with a diameter of 3-3.5 inches . Dust the rings with granulated sugar
and a few almond flakes . Bake the mini Paris-Brest in a preheated oven at 375°F in fan mode for 35 minutes, keeping the oven closed for the first 5 minutes and for the remaining 30 minutes 'ajar', i.e., with the door slightly open to allow moisture to escape. Once baked, remove them from the oven and let them cool. Meanwhile, retrieve the chocolate cream, separately pour the fresh liquid cream into a bowl
whip it with the beaters , then fold the whipped cream into the chocolate cream , mixing from top to bottom to avoid deflating it. Transfer the obtained cream into a piping bag with a star tip. Cut the mini Paris-Brest in half, fill them with the chocolate cream . Your delicious mini Paris-Brest are ready to be enjoyed.
You can store the mini Paris-Brest in the refrigerator in an airtight container. You can prepare the base and store it in a tin box for 2-3 days and fill it as needed. The gianduja cream can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
To fill these small delights, you can also use a hazelnut cream or a white chocolate cream to create a color contrast.

