name:
Yogurt brioches without eggs
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2 ¼cups(280 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ⅛cups(260 g)
Greek yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(120 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)- (soft)
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Brown sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(6 g)
Fine salt: 1.4tsp(8 g)
Whole milk: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 27 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + over 12 hours of leavening

instructions:
To prepare the yogurt brioches without eggs, start by sifting the flours into a bowl and add the dry yeast ; you can also use fresh yeast: in this case, the dose is 18 g. Mix and pour everything into the bowl of a stand mixer, then add the granulated sugar . Attach the hook and start the stand mixer; gradually add the milk at room temperature
Then, when it is incorporated, add the yogurt and continue to work the dough; split a vanilla pod and scrape the seeds inside with a knife to add to the mixture , when everything is combined, also add the salt
Keep working the dough and when it detaches from the sides, you can add the softened butter one piece at a time, waiting for the previous piece to be absorbed before proceeding with the next . Continue with the stand mixer until the smooth dough is wrapped around the hook . Then place it on a slightly oiled work surface and knead for a few moments
just enough time to give it a round shape; place the dough in a bowl and cover with plastic wrap . Then let it rise in a turned-off oven with the light on (temperature 82-86°F) for at least 2 hours. When the necessary time has passed, take the dough which will have doubled in volume and turn it out onto a slightly oiled work surface . Then roll it out into a rectangle
and make folds by bringing the dough from the outside inwards, first with the longer side , then with the shorter sides to close it . Then give the dough a round shape
Place it back to rise covered with plastic wrap and in the refrigerator overnight or at least 10-12 hours . Afterwards, it should be removed from the refrigerator 2-3 hours before working it to allow it to revive. Then turn the dough out onto a slightly floured work surface . Then, divide the dough into two equal parts. Cover one half with plastic wrap and roll out the other with a rolling pin into a rectangle ;
you should get a thin sheet 40x28 cm (15.75x11 inches) . Cover with a cloth to let the dough relax for at least 10 minutes. Then, with a plain pastry cutter, divide the dough rectangle and cut out 16 triangles with a base of 9 cm (3.5 inches) . Start rolling them from the base
up to the tip to get half-moons . Arrange them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and brush them with a little milk . Bake in a static preheated oven at 350°F for about 20 minutes (320°F for 10 minutes if using a convection oven). Once cooked and golden, you can remove them from the oven .
Meanwhile, proceed with the other half of the dough: roll it out into a 30x30 cm (11.8x11.8 inches) square, let it relax for 10 minutes covered with a cloth. Then, with the plain pastry cutter, divide it into three parts each 10 cm (3.9 inches) wide ; cut each part into 11 squares with a side of 8 cm (3.15 inches) and create a central pinch, pressing two sides inward with your fingers . With the pastry cutter make two cuts at the two ends of the bow
then twist the bow to give it the typical shape of bows . Place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper, brush with milk and sprinkle the surface of each bow with brown sugar . Bake in a static preheated oven at 350°F for about 20 minutes (320°F for 10 minutes if using a convection oven). Once cooked, remove them from the oven and your yogurt brioches without eggs in the shape of croissants and bows are ready for a fragrant breakfast!
The yogurt brioches without eggs keep in a food bag for 1-2 days; before serving you can warm them slightly.
The dough can be frozen after the first rise. It can then be thawed in the refrigerator and brought to room temperature before continuing with the preparation.
If you prefer to fill your yogurt brioches without eggs with jams or hazelnut cream, you can make the half-moons with a base of the triangle of 10-12 cm (3.9-4.7 inches) so that the filling does not spill out during baking.

