name:
Lumaconi with sausage and scamorza
ingredients:
Celery: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Carrots: 3.5oz(100 g)
Red onions: 5.25oz(150 g)
Lumaconi pasta: 20
Sausage: 1.1lbs(500 g)
White wine: 2oz(60 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)- smoked
Grana Padano PDO cheese: to taste- (to grate)
Fennel seeds: 1pinch
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Nutmeg: to taste- (to grate)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make lumaconi with sausage and scamorza, start by preparing the Béchamel sauce : heat the milk in a saucepan ; separately, melt the butter over low heat , then turn off the heat and add the sifted flour gradually , stirring with a whisk.
Put it back on low heat and stir until it turns golden: this way you will get the roux. Flavor the milk with nutmeg and a pinch of salt, then add it gradually to the roux , stirring vigorously with the whisk to prevent lumps. Cook for 5-6 minutes over low heat until the sauce has thickened , turn off the heat and set aside. Work on the ragout: remove the casing from the sausage and set the meat aside.
Prepare the soffritto: peel the red onion and chop it , wash and peel the carrots and cut them into small cubes , wash and chop the celery stalk as well
then heat a drizzle of oil in a pan and add the vegetables , let the soffritto soften over low heat for at least 10 minutes, then add the crumbled sausage , stir to combine, season with salt and pepper
flavor with wild fennel seeds , then deglaze with white wine , cover with the lid and let it cook for about 15 minutes, when done, turn off the heat and set aside.
Bring a pot of salted water to a boil, add the lumaconi and cook them for 10 minutes (or for the time indicated on the package), making sure to keep them al dente . Transfer the lumaconi to a tray covered with a towel and let them dry and cool slightly to avoid burning yourself when filling them .
Finally, cut the scamorza into cubes . Now you can assemble the dish: take a 10.5-inch diameter baking dish, spread a layer of béchamel sauce on the bottom , then distribute a layer of ragout and flavor with some scamorza cubes .
In a bowl, mix the remaining ragout with the remaining scamorza cubes , then with the help of a spoon, fill the lumaconi with the ragout and place them in the baking dish side by side .
Once finished, top the lumaconi with the remaining béchamel sauce and grated Grana cheese . Broil them under the grill for 5 minutes, then take them out and let them cool slightly before serving.
Store the lumaconi with sausage and scamorza in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for up to a couple of days. You can freeze them if you used fresh, not previously frozen ingredients.
Try also the version with sauce by cooking the ragout with the addition of peeled tomatoes; the result will be even more inviting!

