name:
Cocoa roll with milk cream
ingredients:
Eggs: 4- (medium, at room temperature)
Type 00 flour: 4tbsp(35 g)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Honey: 1 ½tsp(10 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 0.3cup(25 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Whole milk: 1.67cups(400 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.625cup(150 g)
Honey: 1tsp
Cornstarch: 5tbsp(40 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 1.75oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Note + the resting time in the refrigerator

instructions:
To make the cocoa roll with milk cream, start by preparing the latter. In a saucepan, heat 300 g of milk and the sugar . Cut the vanilla bean lengthwise and extract the seeds, scraping it with a knife; add the seeds to the milk and thicken over very low heat, mixing well with the whisks to melt the sugar. In a separate bowl, sift the corn starch ;
pour in the remaining milk, mixing with a hand whisk: this way, you will avoid lumps in the cream . Add the cold milk (in which the corn starch is dissolved) and the honey into the saucepan with the milk, continuing with the whisks over very low heat until the cream thickens.
When the cream is dense and homogeneous, turn off the heat and pour it into a bowl : cover with cling film in contact, making it adhere well to the surface so that the annoying skin does not form , and let it cool at room temperature and then in the refrigerator. Meanwhile, prepare the cocoa sponge cake. In a stand mixer with a whisk attachment, pour the whole eggs at room temperature and the honey .
Cut the vanilla bean lengthwise and extract the seeds, scraping it with a knife . Add them to the eggs along with the sugar , then turn on the whisk until you get a light and frothy mixture ; at this point, stop the mixer and remove the whisk.
Sift the cocoa powder into a bowl along with the flour. Mix everything , then add the powders to the egg and sugar mixture, one tablespoon at a time ;
mix until you get a smooth and homogeneous batter . Butter and line a baking tray with a sheet of parchment paper measuring 15x12 inches; pour the cocoa batter you obtained , spreading it out evenly and smoothing it gently with a spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 8-10 minutes (or at 355°F for 6-8 minutes if in a convection oven): the baking of the sponge cake should be quick because it needs to remain quite soft.
After the baking time, take the sponge cake out of the oven and transfer it while still warm to the work surface: sprinkle the surface with powdered sugar and cover it immediately with cling film in contact, then let it cool completely : this way, it will remain soft and elastic and won't crack when rolled. In the meantime, remove the now cold milk cream from the refrigerator : if you notice any lumps, sift it to eliminate them, then revive it by mixing with an electric beater.
In a separate bowl, whip the cream well chilled from the refrigerator . Add the whipped cream to the milk cream , mixing the two compounds very gently from bottom to top with a spatula . You must proceed delicately so that the cream does not deflate at this stage.
You should obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream . When the cocoa sponge cake has cooled, remove the cling film ; with a spatula, spread the milk cream evenly over the entire surface, reserving a portion that you will use for the final decorations .
Complete the filling by distributing the dark chocolate chips over the cream , then roll the sponge cake from the longer side with the help of parchment paper to create the roll .
Wrap it in parchment paper and cling film, placing the seam side down , tightening the two ends like a candy to compact everything; place the cocoa roll in the refrigerator to firm up for at least 2 hours. Before serving, decorate it with the milk cream you set aside using a piping bag without a nozzle, which you can cut a hole into: make thin zigzag lines over the entire surface , and finally serve your cocoa roll with milk cream by slicing it.
Store the cocoa roll with milk cream in the refrigerator for a couple of days at most in an airtight container. It's possible to freeze the roll and defrost it in the fridge when needed.
To create a perfect contrast of color and flavor, serve your roll with delicious berries or strawberries!

