name:
Puff pastry filled with chard, pine nuts, and raisins
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1lb(460 g)- (2 rectangular sheets of 8 ounces each)
Chard: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(20 g)
Raisins: 1oz(30 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)- smoked
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tsp(10 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the puff pastries filled with chard, pine nuts, and raisins, start by soaking the raisins in a small bowl with water ; then rinse the chard under running water , trim them to remove the stalk
Boil them for 5 minutes in salted water. Meanwhile, in a separate pan, toast the pine nuts over medium heat in a non-stick pan , stirring occasionally to prevent burning. When they are lightly golden, transfer them to a small bowl and set aside .
Then brown the whole garlic clove in a non-stick pan , drain the chard , then add them to the pan and sauté for about 6 minutes .
Remove the garlic , turn off the heat, and drain the chard ; let them cool, then finely chop them .
Slice the smoked scamorza cheese and drain the raisins from the soaking water . Then roll out both rolls of ready-made puff pastry and divide them into 4 equal parts with a sharp knife .
Place 2 slices of smoked scamorza cheese on 4 rectangles each , then the sautéed chard , followed by the toasted pine nuts and drained raisins: leave a couple of centimeters from the edges of the puff pastry.
Separate the egg white from the yolk needed for brushing, and brush the unfilled part of the puff pastry with the egg white ; then place another 4 rectangles of puff pastry on the 4 filled rectangles to close them and slightly prick the surface . Then, with a fluted pastry cutter, trim the edges
You can also trim the excess corners ; then place the 4 filled puff pastries on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and brush the surface with a beaten yolk . Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 25 minutes or until golden (if fan-assisted, at 320°F for 15-20 minutes). Once cooked, remove from the oven and let them cool slightly before serving !
You can store the puff pastries filled with chard, raisins, and pine nuts in the refrigerator for 1-2 days in an airtight container, then heat them in the microwave before serving.
They can be frozen if you have used fresh, not thawed, ingredients.
You can replace chard with endive or chicory, following the same steps, and swap scamorza with other cheeses like Edamer or fontina!

