name:
Pumpkin lasagna with mushroom cream and smoked cheese
ingredients:
Pumpkin: 4.167cups(500 g)- (already cleaned)
Champignon mushrooms: 5 ¼cups(350 g)
Thyme: 5sprigs
Rosemary: 5sprigs
Fresh liquid cream: ⅔cup(150 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 0.9lb(400 g)- sweet
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- to be grated
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the pumpkin lasagna with mushroom cream and smoked cheese, peel the pumpkin , cut it into 4 parts, and clean the inner fibers and seeds. Cut 10 g into cubes and the rest into slices 3/8-inch thick using a mandoline .
Line a baking sheet with a sheet of parchment paper and distribute the pumpkin slices and cubes , drizzling with a little oil . Season with rosemary and thyme, keeping 2 sprigs of each (you will need them later), and adjust the salt and pepper to your liking; cook in a fan oven at 375°F for 12 minutes (or at 410°F for about 20 minutes if using a static oven).
When the pumpkin slices are well browned , remove from oven and let cool slightly. Then proceed with cleaning the mushrooms: with a sharp smooth-edged knife, begin removing the earthy part of the stem, scraping it gently until all traces of soil are removed . If the mushrooms are quite clean, remove the few soil residues with a brush or a cotton cloth (if they are still very dirty, quickly rinse them under a stream of cold running water).
After cleaning, cut the whole mushrooms lengthwise . In a non-stick pan, brown the garlic in its skin with a little oil and a sprig of rosemary , just enough to flavor the oil. Remove the rosemary with cooking tongs and
add the sliced mushrooms , adjusting salt and pepper. Add a few thyme leaves that you have set aside for flavoring .
Remove the garlic and lastly pour in the cream , cooking over high heat for 5 minutes and stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon or spatula. When the mushrooms are ready, transfer everything to a bowl and blend with an immersion blender
until a thick and homogeneous cream is obtained . Now you can assemble your lasagna: take a 10x8-inch baking dish and distribute the pumpkin slices at the bottom (without the rosemary and thyme sprigs) . Cut 20 g of smoked cheese into cubes and the rest into slices .
Cover with the cheese slices and mushroom cream, then sprinkle with grated cheese . Continue with the same filling until creating 3 layers and finish with a layer of pumpkin cubes and
with the diced smoked cheese . Finally, add the grated Parmesan, some thyme leaves, and a little oil . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 12 minutes (or at 320°F for 8-10 minutes if using a fan oven), then place under the grill for 4 minutes. Once cooked, remove the pumpkin lasagna with mushroom cream and smoked cheese from the oven and let them cool slightly before serving.
You can store the pumpkin lasagna with mushroom cream and smoked cheese for up to 2 days in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container. You can freeze them cooked only if you have used fresh ingredients.
Want to give a more pronounced and flavorful touch to your delicious lasagna? Simple! Just use smoked cheese instead of the mild one or use porcini mushrooms instead of champignons!

