name:
Appetizer in a Glass
ingredients:
Scampi: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Sandwich bread: 4slices- (without crust)
Sweet Paprika: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Lemon juice: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Yellow mustard powder: 1pinch
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: 6tbsp(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- (to grate)
Extra virgin olive oil: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)
Pine nuts: 2tsp(10 g)
Pecorino cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)- (to grate)
Coarse salt: 1pinch
Robiola cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 6 pieces

instructions:
To prepare the tart in a glass, start with the scampi tartare: take the scampi , cut off the head with scissors and open the shell to extract it (2-3), then remove the internal filament (the intestine) by pulling it out with a sharp knife.
Finely chop the scampi with a knife , then place them in a bowl and grate the lemon zest , then squeeze the juice, filter it, and pour it over the fish .
Season with salt, pepper, and oil . Mix and leave to marinate for at least 30 minutes in the fridge. Meanwhile, cut the bread into small cubes .
and place them in a bowl; then add the sweet paprika , mustard powder , salt, pepper, and oil .
Mix everything and pour into a non-stick pan for at least 10 minutes until everything becomes crispy. Once golden, pour it into a blender and blend to obtain a crumble.
Lastly, prepare the pesto: in a mortar (or a blender), place the peeled garlic, basil leaves cleaned with a dry cloth, and salt . Start pounding , pressing the basil against the mortar walls, rotating the pestle from left to right while simultaneously rotating the mortar in the opposite direction (from right to left). Continue until a bright green liquid comes out of the basil leaves , at which point add the pine nuts and start pounding again to reduce to a cream. Add the cheeses little by little, stirring constantly, which will make the sauce even creamier, and finally, the extra virgin olive oil, drizzled in while stirring with the pestle. Mix the ingredients well until a homogeneous sauce is obtained.
Add the robiola to the obtained cream , mix thoroughly and take 6 glasses with 80 ml capacity. Start layering with a layer of pesto , one of toasted bread ,
another layer of pesto , and finally the last layer of scampi tartare . Decorate with basil leaves and your tart in a glass is ready to be served!
Store the tart in a glass in the refrigerator for up to 1 day.
Freezing is not recommended.

For the tartare, you can opt for shrimp instead of scampi, and for the pesto, choose zucchini pesto and season the bread with other spices to your liking!

