name:
Savory log with salmon mousse, asparagus, and prawns
ingredients:
Sandwich bread: 10slices- (without crust)
Asparagus: 6
Shrimp: 5.25oz(150 g)- (code)
Smoked Salmon: 7oz(200 g)
Robiola cheese: 1 ⅓cup(300 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Chives: 3 ⅓tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Shrimp: 4- tails
Asparagus: 4- (tips)
Chives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: High
Note + the time to set in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the savory log with salmon mousse, asparagus, and prawns, start by cleaning the asparagus: trim the stalks and peel them with a vegetable peeler to remove the outer and fibrous part ; then tie them with kitchen twine and boil them for a few minutes in an asparagus pot (you can also boil them in a large pan without tying them). Once blanched, drain them (they should be tender but not falling apart) and let them cool on a cutting board or dip them in a bowl with ice: this will ensure they retain all their brightness
Cut them in half lengthwise , leaving 4 whole tips for decoration; then set aside. Move on to cleaning the prawns (you can also use shrimp instead) by removing the shell and gently removing the intestine (the black thread inside the prawn's body) .
Boil the prawn tails and then drain them after 3-4 minutes ; set aside. Meanwhile, prepare the salmon mousse: coarsely chop the smoked salmon slices
chop the chives as well , then in a blender cup, pour the salmon and the cream cheese , then blend everything and add the chives : you should get a creamy and homogeneous mixture.
Transfer it to a large bowl ; in the bowl of a stand mixer, pour the fresh liquid cream and whip it, then add it to the salmon cream mixing with a spatula from top to bottom to not deflate it.
With a rolling pin, slightly flatten and lengthen 10 slices of sandwich bread ; then line a log mold by slightly overlapping the slices inside . Trim the excess with a knife ; keep the excess that will serve as alternating layers to the rest of the filling.
With the help of a piping bag, pour 1/4 of the salmon mousse into the mold . Place the asparagus along the inner perimeter, trying to overlap them as little as possible , and the prawns, cut in half lengthwise, in a row in the center (leave 4 whole for decoration) . Place the bread scraps to create a middle layer and then repeat the layer of mousse, asparagus, and prawns.
Then cover with more mousse, evenly distributed with the back of a teaspoon, leaving no more than 5 mm from the edge of the mold . Refrigerate to solidify for at least 30 minutes. After the necessary time, with the blade of a small knife, detach the log from the walls
and flip it onto a serving plate ; then spread the surface with part of the remaining salmon mousse , while you can pour the rest into a piping bag with a star nozzle and decorate all around with small tufts
create 4 larger ones on the surface and decorate with 4 whole asparagus tips and 4 prawns . Your savory log with salmon mousse, asparagus, and prawns is ready to be served!
Store the savory log with salmon mousse, asparagus, and prawns in the refrigerator for 1-2 days in an airtight container.
It can be frozen if you used fresh, non-thawed products.
You can replace the prawns with shrimp and fill with zucchini instead of asparagus!

