name:
Lasagna with sliced bread, cheese, and vegetable ragù
ingredients:
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)- sweet
Edam cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Sandwich bread: 12slices
Carrots: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Zucchini: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Peas: ½cup(85 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Flour: ¼cup(25 g)
Nutmeg: to taste- (to grate)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare the lasagna with sliced bread, cheese, and vegetable ragù, wash all the vegetables under plenty of fresh running water; peel the carrots , cut them into strips , and then into cubes about 1/6 inch (4 mm) .
Trim the zucchini , cut them into cubes also about 1/6 inch (4 mm) , then shell the peas ;
blanch them in a pot with plenty of water and cool them in a bowl with cold water to stop the cooking. In a non-stick pot, cook the diced carrots over high heat for 3-4 minutes with a drizzle of oil, then add the zucchini cubes , seasoning with salt and pepper; cook for another 3-4 minutes. Once the vegetables are ready, turn off the heat and let them cool. Finally, add the peas and set aside.
Then prepare the Béchamel sauce : heat the milk in a saucepan ; meanwhile, melt the butter over low heat , then turn off the heat and add the sifted flour in a stream ,
stirring with a whisk to prevent lumps . Return to low heat and stir until it becomes golden: you will have thus obtained the roux. Flavor the milk with nutmeg and a pinch of salt and pepper, then gradually add it to the roux , stirring vigorously with the whisk.
Cook for 5-6 minutes over low heat until the sauce thickens and begins to boil. At this point, you can assemble your lasagna: take a square baking dish 8 inches (20 cm) wide and 2.75 inches (7 cm) high, and spread a layer of béchamel sauce on the bottom ; lay 4 slices of sliced bread, slightly overlapping them and
cover with some of the vegetable ragù you prepared earlier , distributing it evenly over the slices . Slice 3.5 oz (100 g) of Edam and 3.5 oz (100 g) of mild provolone, keeping the leftover cheese as you'll need it later.
Place the cheese slices alternately over the vegetables and then cover with béchamel sauce ; continue with the same filling to make 2 more layers. Finish by distributing the remaining vegetables and
grating the leftover cheese . Spread the remaining béchamel sauce on the surface and bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F (180°C) for 15 minutes (or at 320°F/160°C for 8-10 minutes if using a fan oven). Then grill for 10 minutes; once cooked, remove the lasagna with sliced bread, cheese, and vegetable ragù from the oven and let them cool slightly before serving.
It is recommended to consume the lasagna with sliced bread, cheese, and vegetable ragù immediately. If you have leftovers, you can store them for 4-5 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
You can prepare your lasagna by choosing among the seasonal vegetables you prefer, thus obtaining a mouth-watering ragù: I'm sure they'll be a hit!

