name:
Chocolate Zuccottini
ingredients:
Egg whites: 0.4cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 3tbsp(50 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.67cup(80 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(20 g)
Whole milk: 0.4cup(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¾tbsp(25 g)
Sugar: 3tbsp(35 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Cornstarch: 1tbsp(12 g)
Dark chocolate: 1.5oz(40 g)
Water: 0.625cup(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(120 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(175 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: ¾cup(65 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 1 ½tsp(6 g)
Dark chocolate 70%: to taste- sheets
White chocolate: 8.5oz(240 g)
Milk Chocolate: 8.5oz(240 g)
Chocolate truffles: to taste- (with milk)

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 5 pieces
Note plus the setting time for the decorations

instructions:
To make the chocolate dome cakes, start by preparing the sponge cake domes known as "casse": separate the egg whites from the yolks and place them in two separate bowls , beat the yolks with half of the sugar until a light and fluffy cream is obtained .
Beat the egg whites with a whisk and when they are white, add the remaining sugar to beat them until stiff peaks form (you can also use an electric mixer to beat the eggs). Combine the two mixtures and gently mix with a spatula from top to bottom to avoid deflating them.
Incorporate the sifted flour and cocoa powder into the dough, always mixing gently to keep the mixture well aerated. Baking powder is not necessary in this recipe because the air has already been incorporated by beating the eggs. Transfer the mixture into a disposable piping bag and fill a single-serving silicone dome mold (or a greased and floured aluminum mold). Bake the domes in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 30 minutes (or in a fan oven at 320°F for 20 minutes).
When done, remove from the oven , let them cool slightly, and then unmold onto a wire rack and wait until they are completely cold before filling them. Meanwhile, prepare the cream: pour the milk and cream into a saucepan and heat until just below boiling. In a separate bowl, beat the yolks with the sugar ,
then sift the cornstarch into the egg and sugar mixture . Finely chop the dark chocolate and set aside . Pour the egg-based mixture you have prepared, mixing well with a whisk .
When the cream has thickened, turn off the heat and add the chopped dark chocolate, stirring again to melt it . Once the chocolate is completely melted , pour the cream into a wide, shallow dish and let it cool to room temperature, covering with plastic wrap .
Now take the cold dome cakes, cut a circle one centimeter from the edge and scoop out the inside, removing the dough entirely to create a cavity that you will fill with the filling; part of the removed dough will serve as a cap to seal the dome cakes . When the cream is cold, transfer it to a piping bag without a nozzle and fill the dome cakes . Seal the dome cakes with the “cap” and place them in the fridge to set. Soften the gelatin sheets in cold water for 10 minutes .
In a saucepan, pour milk, cream , sugar , and cocoa . Bring to a boil, stirring with a whisk.
and then add the well-wrung and drained gelatin . When the glaze has a temperature not exceeding 90°F (you can measure with a kitchen thermometer), pour it over the dome cakes , which you have placed on a wire rack with a plate or a tray underneath (to collect any excess glaze that drips). When it has dried, transfer each dome cake to a dessert plate .
To create the decorations, it is necessary to temper the chocolate; this process will not only make the chocolate shiny but will also maintain its qualities in terms of consistency.: melt the milk chocolate in a bain-marie (the water in the saucepan should not touch the bottom of the bowl where you put the chocolate) ; when the chocolate reaches a temperature of 113-122°F (measure with a kitchen thermometer), pour 2/3 of it onto the marble slab placed on a work surface and start spreading the chocolate on the marble slab with a spatula and a scraper, spreading it over the surface . When it reaches 80°F , transfer it to the bowl where you left the remaining 1/3 and mix. The chocolate should reach 84°F. If during these stages the temperature drops too much, always keep the bain-marie saucepan with hot water on hand to slightly heat the chocolate. Conversely, if it is still too hot, repeat the operation of spreading on marble with a small part of the chocolate.
Place a sheet of acetate on the work surface and spread the tempered chocolate on top , then with a pastry comb create uniform lines . Fold the acetate sheet to create a tube , leaving the chocolate stripes inside.
Wrap the tube with two rubber bands at both ends and place it in the fridge to set. When it is solid, remove the rubber bands and unroll the sheet
extracting the rings that have formed . Temper the white chocolate: chop it and melt it slowly in a bain-marie until it reaches 113-122°F. Pour 2/3 of the chocolate onto the marble surface and work the chocolate with a spatula and scraper, mixing it repeatedly until it reaches 79-80°F, then transfer it to a bowl, add the reserved chocolate a little at a time until it reaches 82°F .
Distribute the white chocolate on top of the dome of the dome cakes, using a piping bag . Then place the chocolate shavings in a bowl and dip the base of the dome cake to make the shavings adhere . Place the dome cake on a serving plate and place three milk chocolate rings on top, making them adhere to the white chocolate, which will act as an adhesive .
Take a small truffle and squeeze a drop of white chocolate on the bottom , then place it on the point of union of the rings , next to the dome cake place two dark chocolate sheets. Your chocolate dome cakes are ready to be enjoyed .
Store the dome cakes in the fridge for a couple of days. They can be frozen without decorations, either before or after glazing.
You can make a white chocolate pastry cream by replacing the dark chocolate with white chocolate, adding only half the dose.

