name:
Lagane e ceci
ingredients:
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 2 ½cups(400 g)
Water: 0.875cup(210 g)
Dried chickpeas: 2 ¼cups(400 g)
Tomato purée: 2.1cups(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(45 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + soaking time for the chickpeas (preferably overnight)

instructions:
To prepare the lagane with chickpeas, start by soaking the dried chickpeas (preferably for a whole day) in cold water (1-2). After soaking, drain them and boil them in a large pot for about 1 to 1½ hours, depending on the package instructions ; they can also be cooked in a pressure cooker, in which case the cooking time will be halved.
In the meantime, work on the lagane: in a bowl, pour the remilled semolina and gradually add room-temperature water in a thin stream , mixing with a fork . Knead the dough by hand directly in the bowl until it is smooth and uniform.
Form a ball of dough, cover it with cling film , and let it rest at room temperature for at least half an hour to relax the pasta. Meanwhile, remove the seeds from the fresh chili pepper and chop it, peel the garlic and cut it in half; then sauté it in a large pan with oil .
Remove the garlic and add the chopped fresh chili pepper ; sauté it, and in the meantime, drain the cooked chickpeas . Add them to the pan .
Sauté them for 5 minutes, seasoning with salt, pepper, and thyme leaves . Next, add the tomato sauce and cook over low heat for 20-25 minutes (if necessary, you can add a little hot water to facilitate cooking); they should be creamy at the end .
Meanwhile, take the pasta again , divide it into small pieces , and pass them through a pasta machine, gradually setting the thickness thinner until reaching 1/16 inch (you can also roll out the dough with a rolling pin) .
You should obtain a thin strip of pasta to roll up on itself (19-20). Cut each roll of pasta into pieces ¾ inch thick ,
and continue in the same way until all the dough is finished ; you can then spread the lagane by hand and place them on a lightly floured tray covered with a clean cloth; let them rest for 15-20 minutes. Then, bring salted water to a boil in a large pan and cook the lagane for a few seconds .
Then drain the pasta using a spaghetti strainer and transfer it to the pan with the chickpeas ; mix for a moment , then let rest for a minute before serving the lagane with chickpeas hot !
It is recommended to consume lagane and chickpeas hot. You can freeze the raw lagane on a lightly floured tray, and once hardened, transfer them to a food bag.
To soften the cuticles, you can add a pinch of baking soda during the chickpeas' soaking. To add even more flavor to the dish, you can flavor the tomato sauce with basil leaves!
The name lagane seems to date back to the second half of the 19th century, deriving from the nickname given to the bandits of the Vulture woods, nicknamed “scolalagane” for their pasta greediness.

