name:
Pistachio Cake
ingredients:
Pistachio flour: 3.5oz(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Eggs: 3- (medium)
Pistachio paste: ¼cup(60 g)
Whole milk: 0.6cup(140 g)
Vegetable oil: ½cup(100 g)
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Cornstarch: 1.75oz(50 g)
Rice starch: ⅓cup(50 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Pistachio paste: 3.5oz(100 g)
Dark chocolate: 2.1oz(60 g)- (in flakes)
Dark chocolate: 10.6oz(300 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Glucose: 1.8oz(50 g)
Ground pistachio: to taste
Dark chocolate: to taste
Pistachios: 30- shelled, not roasted or salted

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Very high
Note plus the time needed for the cream to cool

instructions:
To make the pistachio cake, start by preparing the sponge cake: in a stand mixer fitted with a whisk (or in a bowl with an electric beater), place the sugar and whole eggs at room temperature , whip the mixture for at least 10 minutes until it is light and frothy . Incorporate the pistachio paste and whip to combine it,
while continuing to whip, slowly pour in the seed oil and milk and continue whipping until all the liquids are incorporated. In a separate bowl, mix the all-purpose flour, pistachio flour, and baking powder ,
sift them through a sieve and gradually add them to the batter, mixing gently with a spatula to avoid deflating the eggs . When the batter is well combined ,
pour it into a 9-inch round pan, buttered and lined with parchment paper . Bake the sponge cake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for about 50 minutes (or in a convection oven at 300°F for 40 minutes). Once cooked, remove the sponge cake from the oven and let it cool slightly. Meanwhile, prepare the cream: sift the rice starch and cornstarch into the milk ,
mix with a whisk then transfer the mixture to a saucepan and add the sugar , heat well, making sure it doesn't reach a boil, then add the pistachio paste , it's recommended to stir the pistachio paste to mix the oil it contains before using it.
cook the cream over medium heat, stirring with a whisk until it thickens you should obtain a rather thick cream. Transfer the cream to a bowl and cover it with cling film in contact , let it cool at room temperature and then place it in the fridge to chill. Prepare the covering ganache: chop the dark chocolate ,
in a saucepan pour the cream and glucose (alternatively, you can use the same amount of honey), heat until just before it boils and then pour the hot mixture over the chopped chocolate , stir with a whisk until it has completely melted
you should obtain a smooth and lump-free sauce . Let the sauce cool, it should reach 90°F (check the temperature with a food thermometer), this temperature allows you to obtain the right density necessary to cover the cake. Everything is ready to assemble the dessert: take the sponge cake and divide it into three equal discs , fill the first disc with pistachio cream
Take a bar of dark chocolate and with a potato peeler, make 2 oz of shavings, distribute 1 oz over the pistachio cream , cover with the middle disc , and then proceed with another layer of pistachio cream filling and another 1 oz of chocolate shavings ,
finish by closing with the third sponge cake disc. Transfer the cake to a wire rack with a tray underneath and pour the chocolate cream over the entire surface of the cake to cover it completely (29-30).
Now focus on the decoration: apply the pistachio granules over the entire edge of the cake . Briefly blanch the whole pistachios in water for a few moments (32-33)
then drain them and remove the outer skin which will now be softer . With the peeled pistachios, you will create the cake decoration: take a skewer and place it on the cake, applying light pressure so that its shape remains ,
remove the skewer and using kitchen tweezers, apply the pistachios along the skewer mark and create an ear of wheat pattern . Finally, with a potato peeler, cut curls from a bar of chocolate and place them in the center of the cake . Your pistachio cake is ready to be enjoyed.
Store the pistachio cake in the refrigerator covered with a glass dome for up to 4 days. You can freeze the cake without the covering.
Pistachio paste is made entirely from pistachios and is a mixture used for making desserts, not to be confused with pistachio spread, which is a sweet preparation ready for consumption. Pistachio paste is available in specialty pastry product stores.

