name:
Orange-glazed duck breast
ingredients:
Duck breast: 3.5lbs(1.6 kg)- (2 pieces, each 800 g)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Juniper berries: 6
Orange marmelade: 2.1oz(60 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Fine salt: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
New potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.1tbsp(15 g)
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the orange-glazed duck breast, remove the small feathers left attached to the skin of the duck breasts with kitchen tweezers . Score the breasts on the skin side by making 3 diagonal cuts and 4 crosswise to create diamonds .
Place them skin-side down in a hot non-stick pan and cook for 3 minutes to create a golden crust; then flip them and let them brown on the other side for another 3 minutes: the duck will cook in its own released fat. When the breasts are ready , place them skin-side up in a baking dish, which you can line with parchment paper. Pour the liquid formed during cooking and season with salt .
Put the orange marmalade in a small bowl and then brush it evenly over the skin of the breasts . With the back of a knife, crush the juniper berries by pressing with your hands ; season the breasts with the berries ,
the rosemary leaves, the oil , and finally pour the water on the bottom of the baking dish . Cover with a sheet of aluminum foil and bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for 30-40 minutes (or at 265°F for 20-30 minutes if using a fan oven).
Meanwhile, prepare the potatoes: wash the baby potatoes under plenty of fresh running water . With a knife or a mandoline, slice them into rounds about 1/8 inch thick, without peeling them , placing them in a bowl of water as you go to prevent them from browning. Once done, sauté a peeled garlic clove with a drizzle of oil in a non-stick pot , then drain the potatoes and pat them dry with a clean kitchen towel.
When the garlic is golden, add the sliced potatoes to the pan and cook over medium heat for 15 minutes, stirring with a wooden spoon. Add some rosemary leaves for flavor and season with salt .
Once ready, remove the garlic with kitchen tongs . After 30-35 minutes, check the meat's doneness by cutting into the center of the breast with a knife or using a probe: the temperature should be 160°F; if it is lower, leave the duck in the oven and recheck after 5-10 minutes. Once ready , remove from the oven and plate: serve your orange-glazed duck breast, accompanied by the baby potatoes you prepared and a few slices or wedges of orange .
Store the orange-glazed duck breast in the refrigerator for up to 2 days covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended.
Delicious, tender, and flavorful! If you want to add an extra aromatic touch, you can sprinkle a pinch of cumin or coriander!

