name:
Colored buns
ingredients:
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Manitoba flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Milk: ¼cup(65 g)- fresh
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(1.5 g)
Salt: to taste
Saffron: 1bag
Sugar: 2 ½tsp(10 g)- granulated
Basil: - fresh 6-7 leaves
Brewer's yeast: 0.3tsp(1.5 g)
Sugar: 2tsp(10 g)- granulated
Milk: ¼glass(55 g)- fresh
Tomato paste: 3tbsp(40 g)
Milk: 0.3cup(65 g)- fresh
Sugar: 0.8tbsp(10 g)- granulated
Milk: to taste- fresh

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 2 h and 30 min. of leavening

instructions:
To prepare the colored buns, start with the dough for the green buns (these first three sequences will be repeated identically for all three types of buns, with doses indicated for each dough): in a small bowl, pour part of the milk at room temperature, then add the dry yeast and dissolve it (check the package to see if it is yeast that needs dissolving in milk or can be added to other dry ingredients). Then, in a large bowl, pour the sifted flour , add the dissolved yeast in milk , sugar, and melted butter.
In another small bowl, pour the remaining dose of milk at room temperature and add the basil leaves , then blend everything .
Pour it into the bowl with the rest of the dough , add the salt at the edges of the flour , and mix first with a fork, then by hand. Form a smooth and homogeneous ball of dough ,
Then cover with plastic wrap and let it rest in the turned-off oven with the light on for 2 hours. Meanwhile, proceed with the other buns: repeat the steps as in the sequence (1-3) and for the yellow buns, dissolve the saffron in warm milk (11-12);
add the mixture to the rest of the dough , add the salt on the edges then mix everything first with a fork, then by hand to form a smooth and homogeneous ball ; cover with plastic wrap and let rest for 2 hours in the turned-off oven with the light on. Finally, proceed with the red buns: repeat the steps as in sequence 1-3 for the doses of this dough; then pour the tomato paste into the remaining warm milk
dissolve it and pour the contents into the bowl with flour and yeast; add the salt and mix first with a fork and then by hand, forming a smooth and homogeneous ball ; cover with plastic wrap and place it in the turned-off oven with the light on for 2 hours to rise.
When all three doughs have doubled in volume , take them out and start rolling out the green dough by hand to create a loaf , divide it into pieces of about 1 oz each using a dough cutter
and shape them into rounds using the palms of your hands or by rolling them on the work surface . Place the buns one by one on a tray and cover with plastic wrap: they should rise for another 30 minutes in the turned-off oven with the light on. Proceed in the same way for all the doughs .
When the colored buns have risen, remove the plastic wrap and place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper; brush them with a little warm milk then bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 14-15 minutes (356°F for about 10 minutes if using a convection oven; you can bake 2-3 to better check times and temperature in this case). Once baked, take the colored buns out and let them cool on a rack before filling them as desired and serving!
Colored buns keep for 1-2 days in a food bag.
You can freeze the doughs after the first rise.

Want to try coloring the buns differently? Instead of basil, you can use spinach and instead of tomato paste, you can use beets for example!
Looking for a lactose-free alternative? Try the Oil Rolls recipe and enjoy coloring them!

