name:
Farfalle with salmon, snow peas, and confit cherry tomatoes with arugula pesto
ingredients:
Bow tie pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Snap peas: 2 ½cups(250 g)
Salmon: 6.3oz(180 g)- Norwegian
Garlic: 1clove
Olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)- extra virgin
Wild fennel: 4sprigs
Cherry tomatoes: 2 ½cups(350 g)
Sugar: 4tsp(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Thyme: 4sprigs
Oregano: 1pinch- (dry)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Arugula: 7 ½cups(150 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- (to grate)
Pecorino cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- (to be grated)
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.6cup(125 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Pine nuts: ½cup(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the cooking time for confit cherry tomatoes

instructions:
To prepare farfalle with salmon, snow peas, and confit cherry tomatoes with arugula pesto, start by preparing the Cherry Tomatoes Confit : wash them thoroughly under running water and then dry them with a dish towel or some kitchen paper; place them on a cutting board, then cut all the cherry tomatoes in half . Distribute them on a baking sheet covered with parchment paper with the cut side facing up. At this point, prepare the mixture of thyme, oregano, and garlic and pour it over the cherry tomatoes .
Salt and pepper to taste, then add the sugar, distributing it evenly . Drizzle with a little olive oil and bake in a preheated static oven at 284°F (140°C) for about 2 hours, until the cherry tomatoes' water of vegetation has evaporated and they are slightly roasted but not dry .
While the confit cherry tomatoes are cooking, focus on the Arugula Pesto : wash the arugula very well under plenty of fresh running water , then dry it and place it in a mixer along with the pine nuts and a pinch of salt .
Add the grated Parmesan and pecorino cheese , and a splash of olive oil , setting aside the remaining oil. Start blending at low speed and gradually add the remaining oil in a thin stream, until you obtain a thick cream . Set aside the pesto you have obtained, then focus on the fish and vegetable sauce.
Cut the salmon into cubes measuring 0.5 cm (about 1/4 inch) and set them aside. Take the snow peas, remove the two ends, and rinse them under running water. Meanwhile, place a pot with plenty of salted water on the stove, which you will use for cooking the pasta. In a non-stick pan, sauté the garlic clove with a little olive oil; when the garlic has browned, remove it and place the snow peas on the stove, seasoning with salt and pepper to your taste. Cook them over high heat for 8-10 minutes, adding 3-4 tablespoons of pasta cooking water .
Next, add the cubed salmon , searing it for 5 minutes. Finally, add the fennel greens and the confit cherry tomatoes ; mix well with a spatula and then turn off the heat.
When the pasta water is about to boil , cook the farfalle for 10 minutes. Once the pasta is ready, drain it and add it to the pot with the salmon and vegetable sauce .
Add the arugula pesto you prepared and mix with a spatula to combine all the ingredients well : your farfalle with salmon, snow peas, and confit cherry tomatoes with arugula pesto are ready to be served .
Farfalle with salmon, snow peas, and confit cherry tomatoes with arugula pesto is best consumed freshly made. You can store it in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 1 day. Freezing is not recommended. The arugula pesto can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with a layer of oil, for 2 days. Alternatively, you can prepare convenient single portions to freeze and use as needed.
To make this dish, you can choose the pasta shape you prefer: fusilli, penne, rigatoni ... in short, whatever you like best! Additionally, for a more classic and delicate taste instead of the very flavorful confit cherry tomatoes, you can decide to use regular cherry tomatoes.


