name:
Tagliatelle with confit cherry tomatoes, honey mushrooms and pesto
ingredients:
Egg Tagliatelle pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 2cups(350 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: 4sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Oregano: 1pinch- (dry)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sugar: 3 ½tsp(15 g)
Coarse salt: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: 7 ½tbsp(100 g)
Basil: 2 ½cups(50 g)
Pecorino cheese: 3tbsp(15 g)- (to be grated)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)- (to be grated)
Pine nuts: 1 ½tbsp(15 g)
Honey mushrooms: 0.67cup(150 g)
Parsley: to taste
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Pine nuts: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 2 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time of the pasta

instructions:
To prepare the tagliatelle with confit cherry tomatoes, honey mushrooms, and pesto, start with the Cherry Tomatoes Confit : wash them under plenty of running water and then dry them with a cloth or kitchen paper; place them on a cutting board and cut them all in half . Distribute them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper with the cut side facing up. At this point, prepare the thyme and garlic mince and pour it over the cherry tomatoes along with the oregano .
Salt and pepper to taste, then add the sugar, distributing it evenly . Drizzle with a little oil and bake in a preheated static oven at 284°F for about 2 hours, until the cherry tomatoes' water has evaporated and they appear slightly roasted but not dry .
Meanwhile, focus on the Genoese pesto (Pesto alla genovese) : clean the basil leaves with a soft cloth, then place them in a mixer along with the grated cheese and a pinch of salt. Add the pine nuts and olive oil, then activate the mixer until you obtain a dense cream . Transfer the pesto you obtained to a bowl and set aside. Then proceed with the preparation of the dressing. Start by cleaning the mushrooms: with a sharp knife with a smooth blade, remove the earthy part on the stem, scraping it gently to remove any trace of soil ; with a brush, gently remove any residues.
Meanwhile, place a pot with plenty of water on the stove, which you will use for boiling the honey mushrooms. When the water is almost boiling, blanch them for 15 minutes , removing the foam that forms on the surface during cooking. After the necessary time, turn off and drain the mushrooms well . Place a non-stick pan on the stove with the oil and garlic clove .
When the garlic has taken on color, remove it and sauté the honey mushrooms over high heat for 10 minutes, deglazing with white wine . Add the chopped parsley , adjusting the salt to your liking. Shortly before the end of cooking, add the confit cherry tomatoes and the pesto you prepared . At this point, turn off the heat and mix well with a spatula to blend all the ingredients well.
Place a pot with plenty of salted water on the stove. When the water is almost boiling, cook the tagliatelle for 5 minutes or the time indicated on the package and then drain the pasta. Mix the tagliatelle with the dressing , sautéing everything for 1-2 minutes at most. Finally, plate and serve your tagliatelle with confit cherry tomatoes, honey mushrooms, and pesto, garnishing with pine nuts and some basil leaves to taste .
It is recommended to consume the tagliatelle with confit cherry tomatoes, honey mushrooms, and pesto hot and freshly made. You can freeze the tagliatelle raw and cook them directly from frozen. The dressing can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for up to 1-2 days. It can be frozen only if you have used fresh ingredients, in an airtight container.
The preparation of confit cherry tomatoes is quite long but definitely worth it: it will give that extra flavor to complete this dish at its best! Alternatively, if you prefer a more classic taste, you can simply sauté the cherry tomatoes in a pan. If you can't find honey mushrooms, you can opt for another type of mushroom, such as champignons, which are available all year round.
For a correct choice, treatment, and storage of mushrooms, we refer to the Ministry of Health's guidelines .

