name:
Potato and Salmon Croquettes with Yogurt Sauce
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Smoked Salmon: 7.1oz(200 g)- Norwegian
Lime peel: 1- (untreated)
Eggs: 1
Potato starch: ⅛cup(20 g)
Bread: 1.8oz(50 g)- crumb
Dill: 2sprigs
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste- (to grate)
Breadcrumbs: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Eggs: 2
Greek yogurt: 0.8cup(200 g)
Curry: ½tsp(2 g)
Vegetable oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Mixed salad: 3.3cups(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 2 min
Makes: 20 pieces

instructions:
To prepare the potato and salmon croquettes with yogurt sauce, wash the potatoes under plenty of fresh running water and then put a pot with salted water on the stove. When the water approaches boiling, simmer the potatoes with their skins on (to achieve even cooking, try to use potatoes as similar in size as possible). Once cooked (for medium-sized potatoes, it will take about 35-40 minutes traditionally or 15-20 minutes in a pressure cooker), let them cool slightly, then peel them with a small knife , and then pass them through a potato ricer, mashing them into a large bowl .
Chop the dill with a knife and cut the smoked salmon into strips . Add the chopped dill to the bowl with the potato puree, season with salt and pepper, and add the grated lime zest .
Add the grated nutmeg , the salmon strips , and a beaten egg .
Mix everything with your hands and then add the minced bread and the potato starch .
Mix all the ingredients well until you get a soft and homogeneous mixture. In a small separate bowl, beat the eggs and season with salt ; pour the breadcrumbs into a shallow dish, which you will use to bread the croquettes. With your hands, take about 1.8 oz (50g) of the potato and salmon mixture and shape it with your hands to create a small log ;
roll the log first in the egg and then in the breadcrumbs , covering it evenly to create a uniform breading. Repeat the operation until the mixture is finished: with our quantities, you should get 20 croquettes. Put a large pot on the stove, pour in the vegetable oil , and use a cooking thermometer to check that the temperature does not exceed 347°F (175°C).
Fry the croquettes in hot oil for a maximum of 2 minutes , being careful to fry a few at a time to prevent the oil temperature from dropping. Turn them on all sides for even cooking and remove them with a slotted spoon when they are golden brown ; let them drain on kitchen paper and meanwhile prepare the yogurt sauce .
In a bowl, pour the Greek yogurt, curry, and a pinch of salt ; mix well with a spoon until they are well combined . At this point, you can plate and enjoy your potato and salmon croquettes with yogurt sauce, serving them on a bed of mixed salad or, if you prefer, curly salad .

The potato and salmon croquettes with yogurt sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day covered with plastic wrap, but it is advisable to eat them immediately while hot. They can be prepared in advance and frozen before being fried: this way, they will be ready when you need them.
You can store the yogurt sauce in the refrigerator for 1-2 days covered with plastic wrap.
The ideal potatoes for this recipe are the mealy ones with light and thin skin. Furthermore, to make the dough for your croquettes, you can use other spices like thyme and parsley instead of dill!

