name:
Salmon burger with eggless mayonnaise and sautéed potatoes
ingredients:
Smoked Salmon: 14.1oz(400 g)- Norwegian
Thyme: 1sprig
Marjoram: 1sprig
Dill: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Soy milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 7tbsp(100 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Apple cider vinegar: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Potatoes: 7oz(200 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 2 pieces

instructions:
To make the salmon burger with eggless mayonnaise and sautéed potatoes, dice the salmon fillet , then finely chop it with a knife . Also finely chop the aromatic herbs: marjoram, dill, and thyme .
Place everything in a bowl, add salt, pepper, and olive oil , stir with a spoon to flavor the mixture, then take half of the mixture and place it in an 8 cm (about 3 inches) diameter ring mold , press the mixture well to better compact the burger so it keeps its shape once the ring is removed . You will get two 7 oz burgers each. Place the burgers on a tray and store them in the refrigerator.
Meanwhile, prepare the eggless mayonnaise: In a pitcher, pour the oil, the salt , the apple cider vinegar , and start blending with an immersion blender. Gradually add the soy milk and continue to emulsify until you get a thick and frothy cream,
transfer it to a small bowl . Take care of the potatoes: peel them and cut them into small 1 cm (about 0.4 inch) cubes , to prevent them from browning, place them in a bowl of cold water,
then plunge them into salted boiling water and cook them for 4-5 minutes. Drain the potatoes, keeping the cooking water aside, and pour them directly into a pan where you have heated the oil , add the rosemary, salt, pepper, lightly brown the potatoes, and add 3.5 oz of cooking water .
Continue cooking over high heat until the water has evaporated and the potatoes are cooked. Keep them warm and cook the burgers: oil a cast iron grill and heat it, when it is hot, place the burgers on it and cook them for two minutes on each side. Once cooked, serve the burgers hot with the sautéed potatoes and accompany the dish with the eggless mayonnaise .
The salmon burgers, once seasoned and formed, can be stored for up to 1 day in the refrigerator, or they can be frozen if fresh products were used.
You can serve the salmon burgers with typical soft sweet buns (burger buns) and salad. In this case, cut the potatoes into slices of about 0.08 inch.

