name:
Apple and Nutella Cake
ingredients:
Butter: 2cups(150 g)- (softened)
Baking powder: 2tsp(10 g)
Type 00 flour: 2.4cups(300 g)
Eggs: 4- (medium)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Whole milk: 0.4cup(90 g)
Stark apple: 3
Nutella: ½cup(150 g)
Condensed milk: 0.1cup(30 g)
Brown sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Lemons: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the apple and Nutella cake, first peel the apples and cut them into wedges about a quarter of an inch thick , place the wedges in a bowl filled with cold water acidulated with lemon juice to prevent them from browning, and prepare the batter. Place the previously softened butter into a stand mixer fitted with a whisk along with the sugar and whisk the ingredients until a light and fluffy cream forms.
Gradually add the room-temperature eggs one at a time , salt, and beat for at least 5 minutes until you get a smooth, lump-free mixture . Add to the mixture the flour previously sifted with the baking powder
alternating with the addition of the room-temperature milk . Mix the ingredients well, then divide the batter into two equal parts and incorporate Nutella into one bowl
and condensed milk into the other . Mix to obtain two mixtures: one light and one dark . Butter and line with parchment paper a 9-inch diameter pan, distribute the two batters by spoonfuls into the pan, alternating colors
once the batters are finished , create the marbled effect: run a fork in a spiral motion from top to bottom through the two colors of the batter . Drain the apple slices from the acidulated water, take each wedge, and roll it in brown sugar to completely coat it .
Place the wedges on top of the cake, creating a sunburst pattern (16-17). Bake the cake in a preheated static oven for about 55 minutes at 356°F (in a convection oven for 45 minutes at 320°F). For the last few minutes, place a sheet of aluminum foil over the cake to prevent it from browning too much. Check the cooking by inserting a toothpick: if no residue remains on the toothpick when inserted deeply, the cake is cooked. Once baked, remove the cake and let it cool slightly before serving.
Store the apple and Nutella cake under a glass dome for a couple of days. You can freeze it either cooked or raw.
Are apples your passion? Enrich the batter with plenty of apple cubes to make it even softer.

