name:
Cupcake optical
ingredients:
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Butter: ½cup(120 g)- (at room temperature)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Vanilla bean: 1
Eggs: 2
Baking powder: 0.6tsp(3 g)
Sugar paste: 1.67cups(200 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Food coloring: to taste- blue, yellow, red
Food pencils: to taste- bright
Edible glue: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 12 pieces

instructions:
To prepare the optical cupcakes, place the granulated sugar into a bowl along with the softened butter at room temperature, cut into chunks . Slit the vanilla bean lengthwise; scrape out the seeds with a small knife and add them to the bowl along with a pinch of salt. Begin to work the ingredients into a cream .
Then add the eggs one at a time, continuing to mix with the beaters . In a separate bowl, sift the flour and baking powder, then combine the dry ingredients with the butter, eggs, and sugar mixture and mix all the ingredients well with a spatula to obtain a smooth and homogeneous batter .
Place the batter into a piping bag without a nozzle, which you can cut to make an opening; line a muffin tin with 12 paper liners and, using the piping bag, fill them halfway with the batter (7-8). Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 20 minutes (or 320°F for 10-15 minutes in a convection oven) until the cupcakes are slightly golden on the surface. Once ready , turn off the oven and let them cool completely.
In the meantime, you can prepare the decorations with the sugar paste: divide it into small portions using a dough scraper , make a small well and pour in the food coloring as desired based on the shade you want ; knead well with your hands to achieve a uniform color .
Lightly dust the silicone mat with some powdered sugar and roll out the yellow sugar paste into a thin disc and cut out discs with a diameter of 2 ⅓ inches , then roll out the pink one and repeat the operation for the pink one using both the 2 ⅓-inch cutter and smaller sizes (1 ¼ inches) ; do the same with the blue sugar paste and cut out discs with a diameter of 2 inches.
Lastly, for the white one, cut discs with a diameter of 1 ¼ inches and place all the discs on a tray lined with parchment paper. When the cupcakes are baked and completely cool, decorate with the sugar paste discs, attaching them with edible glue ; lay down the first colored sugar paste disc .
Then distribute the edible glue and continue laying the discs of different sizes and colors ; you can finish by decorating with colored glitter pens . Your optical cupcakes are ready to be the stars of your buffets!
Store the optical cupcakes under a glass dome for a maximum of 1-2 days. You can freeze them once cooked without the sugar paste decoration.
Unleash your creativity and the legendary Seventies! Personalize the cupcakes by mixing different color tones: have fun creating shades and contrasts that will make your little desserts unique and special!

