name:
Mini white almond sacher
ingredients:
Eggs: 3- (medium)
Sugar: 5 ½tbsp(70 g)
Honey: 1spoonful
Type 00 flour: ½cup(70 g)
Almond flour: ½cup(45 g)
Berry jam: 0.67cup(200 g)
White chocolate: 3 ½cups(600 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.3cups(320 g)
Glucose syrup: 1tbsp(15 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.25oz(8 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 5 pieces
Note + the cooling time of the mini sacher in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the mini white almond sacher, start with the sponge cake batter: in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with beaters (you can also use an electric hand mixer) pour in the eggs and sugar , add the honey and begin to mix everything to obtain a light and frothy mixture. Sift the flours
then pour them into the stand mixer and mix with a spatula in an upward motion . When well blended, transfer the mixture into a piping bag .
Next, place 5 steel rings with a diameter of about 3 inches and a height of 1.75 inches on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Line each ring with a strip of parchment paper about 2 inches high. Then fill each ring about 3/4 full with the whipped mixture (7-8). Bake the sponge cakes in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 35 minutes (or in a convection oven at 310°F for about 25 minutes, checking with a toothpick to see if the inside is dry before removing them). Once ready, remove from the oven and let them cool slightly. Meanwhile, prepare the icing: soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for at least 10 minutes .
Coarsely chop the chocolate and place it in a bowl, then pour the cream into a saucepan and add the glucose , stir and bring to a near boil. Pour the cream over the white chocolate and stir to melt it, then add the well-squeezed gelatin sheets and stir to dissolve completely.
then add the well-squeezed gelatin sheets (you can also proceed in this way: set aside 2 tablespoons of heated cream and dissolve the gelatin in the warm cream before adding it to the rest of the glaze); stir to dissolve completely. Blend with an immersion blender for a few seconds and, if necessary, pass the cream through a sieve to eliminate lumps .
Cover with cling film in contact and set aside : for perfect consistency, measure the temperature of the glaze with a food thermometer : it should reach 86-90°F; if it becomes too cold, just reheat it a few seconds in the microwave. Blend the berry jam with an immersion blender
and pass it through a sieve . Then take the sponge cakes, remove them from the rings along with the parchment paper and divide them into 3 parts so that each mini cake is made up of three layers.
Fill the bottom layer with a spoonful of jam , continue with another sponge cake layer and fill it ; then place another layer to complete the mini cakes .
Brush the mini cakes with the remaining berry jam and place them in the fridge to firm up for at least 20 minutes. Then place the mini cakes on a wire rack set over a tray and cover them with a first layer of white chocolate glaze . Place the mini cakes in the fridge again for 5 minutes, then repeat the same operation with the glaze and put them back in the refrigerator. The mini white almond sacher is ready to be served as a delicious dessert!
The mini white almond sacher can be stored in the fridge covered or in an airtight container for 2-3 days.
It can be frozen if you've used fresh, not previously frozen ingredients.
For the filling, you could also change the flavor of the jam or use a citrus marmalade of your choice!

