name:
Lasagne with 5 Vegetables
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Pumpkin: 2.2lbs(500 g)- (already cleaned)
Eggplant: 8.8oz(250 g)
Artichokes: 6
Porcini mushrooms: 14oz(400 g)
Spinach: 16.7cups(500 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to grate)
Garlic: 3cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 4 ½tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste- (to grate)
Thyme: 1sprig
Whole milk: 2 ⅛cups(500 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
To make the lasagna with 5 vegetables, trim the eggplants and slice them with a mandoline to a thickness of 1/8-3/16 inch . Slice the pumpkin and peel it , then dice it and set it aside.
Clean the artichokes: remove the stem and take off the tougher outer leaves, then cut them in half removing the inner fuzz, and place them in a bowl filled with water acidulated with lemons to prevent browning, and slice them into strips .
Clean the porcini mushrooms: cut off the stem and wipe the surface with a cloth to remove dirt , then slice them lengthwise to a thickness of 1/16-1/8 inch . Now proceed with cooking the vegetables: grill the eggplant slices on both sides on a hot grill for a few seconds
then slice the grilled eggplants into strips . In a saucepan, place the pumpkin cubes, add the milk, salt, pepper, and season with nutmeg , cook over low heat for 20 minutes. Then, using an immersion blender, blend the warm pumpkin and milk
to obtain a smooth cream , then sift the ricotta directly into the bowl with the pumpkin cream and mix with a whisk to combine ,
finally, flavor with thyme leaves and store the cream in the refrigerator. Continue with cooking the spinach: rinse the spinach leaves under running water and place them in a pan with about 1.35 tbsp of oil and a clove of garlic , cook covered for 4-5 minutes until soft, then at the end of cooking, remove the garlic , salt and pepper.
Also cook the artichokes in a pan with about 1.35 tbsp of oil, garlic, salt, and pepper for 5-6 minutes until tender , then remove the garlic clove. Now it's the mushrooms' turn: place another pan on the heat with about 1.35 tbsp of olive oil and a clove of garlic, add the mushrooms, salt, pepper , and cook for 4-5 minutes.
At the end of cooking, remove the garlic clove . Everything is ready to assemble the lasagna: take an 8x12 inch baking dish, oil the bottom and spread a layer of pumpkin cream on top .
Place 3 sheets of egg pasta , then fill with another layer of pumpkin cream , arrange the eggplants ,
the spinach , and add the artichokes and mushrooms. Sprinkle the surface with grated Grana Padano cheese , then continue with another layer of 4 sheets placed parallel to the long side of the dish and the filling of pumpkin cream and vegetables.
Continue alternating a layer of 3 sheets , dress again with the cream and vegetables, and finish with a final layer of 4 sheets similar to the previous one. Spread the pumpkin cream over the last layer of sheets and dress with artichokes, spinach, mushrooms, and eggplants, flavor with grated Grana cheese . Bake in a preheated static oven at 430°F for 20 minutes (or in a ventilated oven at 390°F for 10 minutes). Once cooked, take the lasagna with 5 vegetables out of the oven and let it cool slightly before serving .
You can store lasagna with 5 vegetables in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for 1-2 days. They can be prepared the day before, kept in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap, and cooked the next day. They can be frozen only if all fresh ingredients were used, preferably uncooked: to cook, simply thaw them in the refrigerator about 24 hours in advance and then bake.
Experiment with other flavors and change the vegetables based on seasonal availability: in spring, for example, you can use peas, asparagus, snow peas, and fava beans.

