name:
Chestnut flour spaghetti alla chitarra with mushrooms, pumpkin, and sausage
ingredients:
Chestnut flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(200 g)
Eggs: 2- (at room temperature)
Egg yolks: 2- (at room temperature)
Water: 2.7tbsp(40 ml)
Sausage: 0.9lb(400 g)
Porcini mushrooms: 14oz(400 g)
Pumpkin: 1.3cups(300 g)
Rosemary: 4sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.7tbsp(40 ml)
White wine: 2tbsp(30 ml)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time of the pasta

instructions:
To prepare the chestnut flour spaghetti alla chitarra with mushrooms, pumpkin, and sausage, start with making the pasta. Place the sifted all-purpose flour along with the chestnut flour in a large bowl , then make a well in the center. In a separate container, beat the whole eggs and yolks at room temperature and pour them into the flours .
Mix with a fork starting from the inside, gradually incorporating the flour from the edges, then pour the water slowly, always stirring to ensure it is well absorbed . Transfer the dough to a lightly floured work surface and knead it with your hands from the outside in until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture. Form a ball and let it rest for at least 1 hour in a cool, dry place, wrapped in plastic wrap .
In the meantime, focus on preparing the sauce: cut the sausage and remove the casing, gently pulling it away with your hands ; crumble the sausage into a large bowl and set aside. Then proceed with How to Clean Porcini Mushrooms : with a sharp smooth-bladed knife, remove the earthy part on the stem, gently scraping until all traces of soil are eliminated . If the mushrooms are clean enough, remove any remaining soil with a brush or a cotton cloth , otherwise, if they are still very dirty, quickly pass them under a stream of cold running water.
Once cleaned, cut the whole mushrooms lengthwise . Cut the pumpkin in half and then into slices, remove the seeds and internal filaments; peel it , and cut it into cubes of about 0.79 inches (2 cm) , setting aside the vegetables you have cut.
Sauté the garlic clove in a large non-stick pot with the oil; when the garlic is golden brown, remove it and then add the cubed pumpkin. Finely chop some of the rosemary leaves (keep the remaining needles whole) and add them to the pumpkin along with the crumbled sausage, cooking for 6 minutes over high heat .
Deglaze with white wine and finally add the mushrooms to the pot; season with salt and pepper to taste, and flavor with the whole rosemary needles you kept .
Cover with a lid and cook again for another 10 minutes . In the meantime, prepare the spaghetti alla chitarra; after resting, the fresh pasta will be softer and more elastic . Flour the work surface and equip yourself with a rolling pin or a pasta roller: before rolling it out, flatten your dough ball with a light pressure of your fingers, then roll out the sheet to a thickness of 0.08 inches (2 mm) .
Once the sheets are formed , flour them well and then place them one at a time on the chitarra, rolling over with the rolling pin to cut the pasta .
At this point, flour the spaghetti you have obtained and form nests, placing them next to each other on a pasta drying rack to dry for at least 30 minutes (alternatively, you can also place them on a wooden pasta rack). Meanwhile, check that the sauce you prepared is ready . After the necessary resting time, bring a pot of salted water to a boil, then add the spaghetti , cooking them for about 5 minutes.
Drain the pasta and mix it with the sauce, stirring well with a spatula and sautéing everything for 1-2 minutes maximum . Finally, plate and serve your chestnut flour spaghetti alla chitarra with pumpkin, mushrooms, and sausage .
It is recommended to consume the chestnut flour spaghetti alla chitarra with mushrooms, pumpkin, and sausage hot and fresh. You can freeze the spaghetti before cooking, shaping them into nests. The sauce can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for 1-2 days maximum. It can be frozen only if you used fresh ingredients, in an airtight container.
If you don't have a chitarra, don't worry! You can still opt for another pasta shape like maltagliati or tagliatelle: let your imagination run wild!

