name:
Savory Potato Scones
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1lb(420 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(220 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Whole milk: 0.67cup(160 g)
Thyme: 5sprigs
Fine salt: 1pinch
Nutmeg: to taste- to grate
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 4 ¼tsp(12 g)
Prosciutto crudo: 5.3oz(150 g)- (sliced)
Ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Mortadella: 5.3oz(150 g)- sliced
Zucchini: 0.8cup(100 g)
Sesame seeds: to taste
Black sesame seeds: to taste
Poppy seeds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling and setting time of the dough

instructions:
To prepare the savory potato scones, start with the potatoes: wash them under running water, then boil them in a large pot with plenty of lightly salted water : it will take about 30 minutes to cook until soft (you can reduce the time by using a pressure cooker, which will take about 12 minutes); once cooked, peel them while still hot and mash them in a bowl .
Add the butter, thyme , salt , and a grating of nutmeg to flavor the mixture ;
mix everything with a fork , then cover with plastic wrap and let it cool to room temperature, then in the fridge . Then, sift the flour into a bowl and add the baking powder for savory preparations .
When the potato mixture is cold, pour it into the bowl with the flour and baking powder and also add the milk a little at a time , then mix all the ingredients: you should obtain a compact and homogeneous dough. Then form a ball of dough and place it in the fridge to firm up, covered with plastic wrap, for about 20 minutes.
After this time, turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surface, place a sheet of parchment paper on top and roll out the dough into a disk of 0.6 inches thickness ; then remove the sheet of parchment paper and use a 2.5-inch diameter biscuit cutter to cut out 12 disks
and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Sprinkle some with white sesame seeds, others with black ones, and the rest with poppy seeds . Place the baking sheet in the refrigerator to rest the disks for another 10-15 minutes before baking them in a static oven preheated to 392°F for about 15-20 minutes (356°F for 10-15 minutes if using a convection oven). Once cooked, they should be golden on the surface (you can check the doneness by sticking them with a toothpick: if it comes out dry, they are cooked); you can remove them from the oven and let them cool completely on a rack. Meanwhile, for the filling, wash and trim a zucchini, then slice it into rather thin slices with a knife or with a mandoline.
Heat the grill very well and grill the zucchini on both sides ; then when the scones are cold, open them halfway horizontally with a small knife and fill 6 halves with ricotta ,
then place the grilled zucchini or the prosciutto or mortadella on the halves with ricotta ; close them with the other halves, and your savory potato scones are ready to be enjoyed !
Store the savory potato scones and filled ones in the refrigerator for 1 day covered with plastic wrap.
You can freeze the dough for about 1 month; you should thaw it in the refrigerator and bring it to room temperature before using it.

Fill the savory potato scones as you prefer, with seasonal vegetables or other cured meats.

