name:
Chestnut velouté with porcini mushrooms and crispy guanciale
ingredients:
Chestnuts: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Shallot: 3.5oz(100 g)
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Porcini mushrooms: 8.8oz(250 g)
Jowls: 0.33lb(150 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the chestnut velouté with porcini mushrooms and crispy guanciale, start by placing a pot of water on the stove to prepare the Vegetable broth . Then proceed to clean the chestnuts: score the chestnuts with a small knife and then boil them in a pressure cooker with plenty of water for 12 minutes (alternatively, you can use a regular pot and cook for about 30 minutes). Take the shallot, remove the skin, and cut it into rings .
Finely chop the rosemary and set aside. When the chestnuts are ready , put on latex gloves and peel them still warm with a small knife, removing them one at a time from their cooking liquid as you clean them .
After this process, sauté the shallot over medium heat in a non-stick pan with the oil, stirring well with a spatula . Place the previously cleaned chestnuts over the heat, adding salt and pepper to your liking along with the chopped rosemary .
Brown for 2 minutes and then pour the vegetable broth you prepared, covering the chestnuts well : keep some aside and add it if the broth dries out. Cook over high heat for 15-20 minutes and, in the meantime, take care of cleaning the How to Clean Porcini Mushrooms : with a sharp, smooth-bladed knife, remove the earthy part on the stem, scraping it gently until all traces of soil are removed . If the mushrooms are fairly clean, remove the few soil residues with a brush or a cotton cloth , if still very dirty, quickly run them under a stream of cold running water.
After cleaning, cut the whole mushrooms lengthwise . Sauté a clove of garlic in its skin in a non-stick pan with the oil , then brown the mushrooms for 10 minutes, seasoning with salt and pepper .
When the mushrooms are ready, turn off the heat and set aside . Cut the guanciale into slices and then into strips , then cook it for a few minutes over the heat to remove the fat and make it crispy .
Once the guanciale is well browned , place it on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper so that it releases the fat created during cooking . After the necessary time has passed, the chestnuts will have softened well: turn off the heat and blend them with an immersion blender
until you get a thick cream . At this point, pass the velouté through a fine-mesh sieve until you get a smooth and homogeneous cream ; transfer it to a serving dish, garnishing it with the mushrooms and crispy guanciale you prepared. Your tasty chestnut velouté with porcini mushrooms and crispy guanciale is ready: enjoy it right away !
You can store the chestnut velouté with porcini and crispy guanciale in the refrigerator for up to 2 days in an airtight container. You can freeze it only if you have used fresh, not previously frozen ingredients, for up to 1 month.
Do you want to make your chestnut velouté even creamier? Try adding some milk or fresh cream!
If you prefer, instead of guanciale, you can also opt for smoked bacon.

