name:
Potato Focaccia
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Potatoes: 0.44lb(200 g)
Malt: 0.2oz(6 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1 ½tsp(9 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1.4tsp(7 g)
Water: 0.6cup(145 g)- (at room temperature)
Water: 0.4oz(10 g)- (at room temperature)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Fleur de sel: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the rising time of the dough and cooling time of the potatoes

instructions:
To prepare the potato focaccia, start by cooking the potatoes in a pressure cooker for about 15 minutes (or at least half an hour in a regular pot), then peel them and mash them, collecting the puree in a bowl . Let them cool,
meanwhile, in the bowl of a stand mixer, pour the sifted flour, the dry yeast, and the malt , then also add the salt around the edges and the now cooled potatoes . You can also use fresh brewer's yeast: in this case, the dose to use is 21 g. The malt can be substituted with the same amount of honey.
Then attach the K-beater , pour in the oil and start kneading. Gradually add room temperature water and when all the ingredients have blended,
replace the K-beater with the dough hook . Work for another 5 minutes, then stop the mixer and transfer the dough onto a lightly oiled work surface . Work it with a dough scraper because it will be quite sticky, shape it into an oval
and place it in a lightly oiled bowl ; cover with plastic wrap and let it rise in the oven turned off with the light on or cover with a wool blanket (it should maintain a temperature between 82-86°F), until it doubles in volume : this will take about 2 hours. Oil an 11-inch diameter aluminum pan; once risen, retrieve the dough
gently stretch it into a disk, then finish stretching the dough inside the pan, spreading it evenly over the entire surface; make small holes with a light pressure of your fingers . Then season the potato focaccia with an emulsion of water and oil and rosemary (17-18).
Finally, season with fleur de sel (or coarse salt), distributing it evenly . Let it rise again for 30 minutes covered with plastic wrap, then bake the focaccia in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 20 minutes (if using a convection oven, at 356°F for about 10 minutes, ensuring the base is cooked before removing the focaccia, by lifting it slightly). Once baked and golden on the surface, remove it from the oven and let it cool slightly, then serve it cut into slices on its own or to accompany cold cuts and cheeses.
You can store the potato focaccia covered with plastic wrap or closed in a food bag for a couple of days.
The focaccia dough can be frozen after the first rise and thawed in the refrigerator; then it should be brought to room temperature and allowed to rise in the pan as indicated in the steps. Then it can be baked with the times and temperatures indicated in the recipe.
For a more intensely flavored potato focaccia, you can prepare the dough the night before and let it rise in the refrigerator overnight. Spread the focaccia in the pan and let it rise for at least half an hour before baking!

