name:
Sliced beef with teriyaki sauce reduction and caponata
ingredients:
Beef: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (ribeye)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Teriyaki sauce: 1cup(250 g)
Honey: 2 ⅓tbsp(50 g)
Carrots: 1
Zucchini: 1
Eggplant: 1
Red peppers: 1
Yellow peppers: 1
Pine nuts: 6tbsp(60 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Note + cooking of the teriyaki sauce

instructions:
To prepare the sliced beef with teriyaki sauce reduction and caponata, start by preparing the sauce. In a small pot, pour the teriyaki sauce and the honey . Cook over very low heat for 30 minutes until the sauce has reduced by half. Meanwhile, take care of cleaning the meat: with a knife, remove the fat and nerves , then
cut the meat into 4 equal pieces weighing 4.6 oz each . In a separate baking dish, pour 2 tsp of oil , add some rosemary needles, and place the meat ;
cover everything with the remaining oil and the reserved rosemary needles, distributing them over the meat. Let the meat absorb the flavors well for 5-10 minutes and in the meantime, prepare the caponata . Wash all the vegetables under plenty of fresh running water; clean the carrots by removing the peel ,
cut them into strips and then into cubes about 0.2 inches . Trim the zucchini ends ,
cut them into 0.2-inch cubes again , and repeat the same operation for the eggplants . Take the peppers and remove the top part, then with a knife remove the seeds inside .
Cut the peppers into strips not too thin and then into 0.2-inch cubes . Once you've cleaned all the vegetables, place a large non-stick pot with a drizzle of oil on the stove. Cook the carrots for 3 minutes then add the zucchini and peppers .
cook for another 5 minutes and then add the eggplants along with the pine nuts . Sauté for another 4-5 minutes. When the vegetables are ready, add salt and pepper to taste ; turn off the heat and set aside.
Once the meat is well flavored, sear it on a very hot grill for 2-3 minutes on each side , so that it remains tender and pink inside: turn only once with kitchen tongs or spatulas for even cooking and season with salt when cooked . When the meat is ready, plate the caponata using a food ring mold with a diameter of 4 inches .
Slice the meat into 4-5 pieces about 0.8 inches thick , placing them on the serving plate ; finish by removing the food ring mold and drizzling the meat with a bit of teriyaki sauce reduction and, if you like, a sprig tip of rosemary: your sliced beef with teriyaki sauce reduction and caponata is ready .
It is recommended to consume the sliced beef hot at the moment. You can store the caponata in the fridge in an airtight container for up to 3-4 days. Freezing is not recommended. The teriyaki sauce reduction can be stored in the fridge for 2 weeks, covered with plastic wrap.
For this dish, choose high-quality meat: once seared on the grill, it will be so tender it melts in your mouth!

