name:
Spicy chicken wings with rich potato and spinach puree
ingredients:
Chicken wings: 1.9lbs(870 g)
Soy sauce: ⅓cup(80 g)
Lime peel: 1
Oranges: 1- juice and zest (untreated)
Marjoram: 3sprigs
Shallot: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Ground pepper: 0.7tsp(4 g)- mixed
Fine salt: to taste
Potatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Spinach: 10cups(300 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2oz(60 g)- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Note + the marinating time for the wings

instructions:
To prepare the spicy chicken wings with rich potato and spinach puree, start by marinating the chicken (if you prefer even more aromatic meat, you can marinate the wings overnight in the refrigerator). Slice half an orange , while you can squeeze the other half and strain the juice . Then place the chicken wings in a large baking dish, being careful not to overlap them ; add half the amount of soy sauce
and the orange juice . Then season with marjoram leaves , orange slices , and lime zest;
add salt and pepper , then drizzle with oil and cover with plastic wrap : place in the fridge for at least 2 hours to marinate, turning them occasionally to distribute the marinade evenly.
In the meantime, prepare the side dish: boil the potatoes in plenty of lightly salted boiling water and stew the spinach, previously washed thoroughly and well-drained, in a pan with a drizzle of oil and salt to taste, covered . When they are soft, transfer them to a bowl and puree them with an immersion blender .
When the potatoes are boiled, peel them while still hot and mash them into a bowl ; add the grated cheese
also add the spinach puree , salt and pepper, and mix to combine everything . Keep the puree warm in an oven with the light on for example; meanwhile, in a pan, pour the oil and the peeled and chopped shallot .
Sauté it over low heat, stirring occasionally, then add the chicken, drained from the marinade, and the other half of the soy sauce . Turn the wings to brown them on both sides, then cover with a lid and cook over moderate heat for about 30 minutes, adjusting the salt if necessary. Once ready, serve the spicy chicken wings with rich potato and spinach puree .
Store the chicken wings in the fridge in an airtight container; store the puree separately.
Freezing is not recommended.
For even more tender and flavorful wings, you can marinate them for 12 hours in the refrigerator.
A suggestion to make them even more delicious: add bay leaves, thyme, and rosemary to the marinade.

