name:
Escalopes with mixed mushrooms and mashed potatoes
ingredients:
Sliced beef: 9oz(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.67cup(80 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tsp(10 g)
Soy sauce: 3tbsp(45 g)
Pioppino Mushrooms: 5.3oz(150 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 2cups(150 g)
Oyster mushroom or oyster fungus (Pleurotus): 5.3oz(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Thyme: 5sprigs
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 52 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To make the beef escalopes with mixed mushrooms and mashed potatoes, boil the potatoes with the skin on for about 30 minutes (if you use a pressure cooker, it will take 10 minutes). In the meantime, clean the champignon mushrooms: cut the earthy part of the stem then remove the dirt with a cloth, if necessary pass them briefly under running water and then dry them well and slice them .
Move on to the pleurotus: separate them from the cluster and use a kitchen cloth to clean the surface of the caps and the stem to remove dirt. Finally, clean the pioppini: separate the pioppini from the central stem , brush them gently to remove any remaining soil. In a pan, sauté a clove of garlic with olive oil ,
then remove it and add the pleurotus, champignon , and pioppini, and cook for about 7 minutes. Season everything with soy sauce , thyme leaves , and turn off the heat.
Now take care of the potatoes: peel them and mash them with a potato masher , add salt and pepper
thin the mashed potatoes with warm milk to soften the puree and set aside . Pound the meat slices with a meat tenderizer to make them thin, then flour them .
In a pan, add butter with olive oil and when it has melted, lay the slices ; cook the meat on both sides for a couple of minutes over medium heat, then season with soy sauce and continue for another two minutes so that the meat can absorb the sauce.
When the meat is cooked , transfer the beef slices to the pan with the mushrooms , heat them together for a few moments, and then serve the escalopes on a serving plate accompanied by quenelles of mashed potatoes garnished with fresh thyme .
It is recommended to consume the escalopes immediately; if leftovers remain, store them in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
To accompany the beef escalopes, you can prepare a trio of mashed potatoes: potato, pumpkin, and spinach, to add a touch of color to the dish!
For the correct choice, treatment, and storage of mushrooms, we refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

