name:
Turkey roast with soy sauce reduction and sautéed vegetables
ingredients:
Turkey breast: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Thyme: 2sprigs
Dill: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Soy sauce: 0.6cup(150 g)
Honey: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Carrots: 2
Fresh scallion: 2
Red peppers: 1
Yellow peppers: 1
Soy sauce: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
To prepare the turkey roast with soy sauce reduction and sautéed vegetables, start by washing all the vegetables under plenty of fresh running water. Clean the bell peppers by removing the two ends and the inside ; cut them into not too thin strips and then into 3/4 inch cubes . Remove the skin from the carrots, cut them into strips ,
then into dice of the same size . Trim the scallion by removing the green part and the roots; peel it to remove the tougher outer part , then cut it into 3/4 inch dice .
In a large pan with oil, sear the vegetables: add the carrots , bell peppers, and scallion . Sauté the vegetables for 5 minutes over high heat, then season with the soy sauce .
Now move on to the roast: on a cutting board, lay out the turkey breast slice; salt and pepper to your liking and spread the surface evenly with aromatic herbs: add the rosemary leaves (reserving a whole sprig) , thyme , and dill .
Finally, drizzle the meat with oil . With your hands, gently roll up the turkey to form a roll; How to tie a roast to form a cage : this way, the roast will maintain its shape during cooking.
Insert the sprig of rosemary you set aside into the string in contact with the meat and adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper . Place a large non-stick pan with oil on the stove; lay the tied roast inside, searing it on all sides: turn with spatulas or kitchen tongs for even cooking, so that it is well-browned. When the meat is well-golden, turn off the heat and set aside .
At this point, prepare the soy sauce reduction: in a saucepan, pour the sauce and honey ; heat over very low heat until the sauce has reduced by half . In an aluminum tray with a drizzle of oil, place the roast along with the vegetables you prepared earlier .
Brush it with the soy sauce and then cook in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 40-45 minutes (or 300°F for 35-40 minutes if using a convection oven), brushing every 4-5 minutes with the sauce so that the meat does not become too dry . To achieve even more tender meat, you can lower the oven temperature to 300°F, covering the turkey with aluminum foil, and cooking for 90 minutes. When it is well-browned , remove from the oven and transfer to a serving platter : your turkey roast with soy sauce reduction and sautéed vegetables is ready to be served.
Store the roast along with the vegetables in the refrigerator for up to 4 days, covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended.
To prepare this dish, have your trusted butcher prepare the turkey breast opened, so you can use it for a roll! For the vegetables, get creative: create the mix you prefer, choosing based on the season!

