name:
Maltagliati with salmon, porcini mushrooms and confit cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 0.4cup(50 g)
Eggs: 4- medium
Cherry tomatoes: 3.3cups(500 g)
Sugar: 0.625cup(125 g)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Oregano: ½tsp(2 g)- dried
Fine salt: 1.8tsp(10 g)
Black pepper: 2tsp(5 g)
Salmon steaks: 8.1oz(230 g)
Porcini mushrooms: 6 ½cups(450 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 2 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for the fresh pasta

instructions:
To prepare the maltagliati with salmon, porcini mushrooms, and confit cherry tomatoes, start with the latter: wash the cherry tomatoes under running water, dry them and place them on a cutting board, then cut all the cherry tomatoes in half . Lay them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper with the cut side facing up, then salt and pepper to taste. Distribute the oregano and chopped thyme , the sugar .
Finally, drizzle a little oil on each cherry tomato and bake everything in a preheated static oven at 284°F (140°C) for about 2 hours, until the water from the cherry tomatoes has evaporated and they are slightly roasted but not dry . While the cherry tomatoes bake, prepare the maltagliati: sift the flour and transfer it to a pastry board, make a well and add the re-milled semolina .
Make a cavity in the center and widen it slightly. Pour an egg in the center and start mixing the flour with the egg using a fork . Add the remaining eggs little by little, continuing to knead. Once you have a compact dough, continue working it energetically by hand, pressing it with the palm of your hand . Once you have a ball with a smooth consistency, let it rest for 30 minutes at room temperature inside a plastic bag .
After resting, divide the dough into 3 parts ; while you roll out one, keep the others in the bag to prevent them from drying out. Roll out each portion of dough with a rolling pin , dusting with re-milled semolina as needed, to form a thin rectangle; you should achieve a thickness of about 1/16 inch (1.5 mm), so that when you lift the pasta, you can see the shadow of your palm underneath. You can also roll it with the help of a pasta machine, setting it to the narrowest measure, dusting with re-milled semolina as needed. Gradually spread the pasta sheets on a floured pastry board, cover with a clean cotton cloth, and continue rolling out the other pieces, stacking them on top of each other once ready, separated by a dry cloth. Cut each sheet into horizontal strips of about 1.25 inches (3 cm) thick .
Then cut them again into diagonal strips of about 3/4 inch (2 cm) . Place the obtained maltagliati on a lightly floured dry cloth, waiting to be cooked. In the meantime, take care of the seasoning: carefully clean the porcini mushrooms by removing the more earthy end part of the stem; thoroughly remove the dirt by gently passing a damp cloth over the cap and stem . If necessary, you can briefly rinse them under running water.
Then slice them into about 1/8 inch (3 mm) thick slices and quickly brown them in a pan over medium heat with the oil , salt, and pepper to taste .
Lastly, focus on the salmon; massage the surface of the fillet to check for any bones (you can remove them with kitchen tweezers if necessary); remove the skin with a sharp knife ; then divide it into 4 pieces, which you will further cut into 6/7 slices of about 1/5 inch (5 mm) each . In the pan with the porcini, add the confit cherry tomatoes .
Then add the salmon and toss everything for a few moments, just long enough for the salmon to turn a pinkish color. In the meantime, boil the maltagliati in plenty of salted boiling water for 4-5 minutes , then drain them and toss in the pan with the seasoning to flavor them (if necessary, you can add a little cooking water) .
Take the serving plates and divide the portions, placing a pastry ring of 4 inches (10 cm) in diameter in each plate and pour the maltagliati inside , then gently remove the pastry ring and the maltagliati with salmon, porcini, and confit cherry tomatoes are ready.
It is recommended to consume the maltagliati with salmon, porcini, and confit cherry tomatoes immediately. You can freeze the uncooked maltagliati, placed on a lightly floured cloth (try to create as few overlapping layers as possible between maltagliati and cloths) and put them in the freezer; once frozen, you can transfer them to a food bag. When you need to cook them, there is no need to thaw them.
The confit cherry tomatoes are very flavorful, so make sure, before tossing the pasta, whether it is actually necessary to adjust the salt and pepper!

