name:
Honey-glazed Salmon
ingredients:
Salmon steaks: 1.3lbs(600 g)- Norwegian
Lime: 1- juice and zest
Oranges: 1- juice and zest
Soy sauce: 2tsp(10 g)
Honey: 0.3cup(100 g)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 ml)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste
Water: 6.3cups(1.5 l)
White onions: 1
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Coarse salt: 3tsp(15 g)
Basmati rice: 1.6cups(300 g)
White onions: ½- (small)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)
Vegetable broth: 3.3cups(800 ml)
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Cloves: 5

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the time for marinating the salmon

instructions:
To prepare the honey-glazed salmon, start by cleaning the fish. Run your fingertip along the salmon flesh to check for any remaining bones, and remove them with kitchen tweezers if necessary . Cut the thicker part of the fillet , remove the skin, and then divide the salmon into 4 fillets of approximately 5 oz each .
Then proceed to prepare the marinade: squeeze the lime and the orange and strain the juice of both with a strainer .
In a large, shallow baking dish, pour the citrus juice, soy sauce , honey , and oil. Grate the lime and orange zest .
Add the grated citrus zest along with thyme leaves ; season with salt and pepper to taste, then mix well with a fork .
Place the salmon fillets side by side in the marinade and refrigerate to marinate for about 30 minutes, covered with plastic wrap. Meanwhile, you can prepare the pilaf rice: bring a pot of salted water to a boil (which will be used to prepare the Vegetable broth ) and meanwhile, rinse the rice several times under cold running water to remove the starch . In a large pot, melt the butter cut into pieces .
and sauté the finely chopped onion for at least 8-10 minutes . When the onion becomes translucent (it should not brown), add the cinnamon and cloves . Sauté for 2 minutes, then add the washed and drained rice , toasting it for another 5 minutes.
Cover the rice with the hot vegetable broth you prepared , seal with a lid without vents , and let cook for 18 minutes on low heat, until the broth has been absorbed. Once ready , turn off the heat and fluff the pilaf rice with a fork.
At this point, heat the grill pan very well, then cook the salmon fillets, turning them on each side for about 1 to 1.5 minutes , so they remain crispy on the outside and tender and pink on the inside. Once ready , place the salmon fillets on a serving plate and plate the pilaf rice using an 8 cm (about 3 inches) mold; finally, you can serve and enjoy the honey-glazed salmon .
It's recommended to serve the honey-glazed salmon immediately. Freezing is not recommended.
Here's a small but useful tip about salmon: the thinner end of the fillet is suitable for being cut into tartare or finely chopped for fish burgers or tasty fishballs. And if you want to give the marinade a special and flavorful touch, try adding some grated ginger!

