name:
Salmon, Porcini, and Zucchini Flowers Strudel
ingredients:
Eggs: 1- medium
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 ml)- (warm)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 ml)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Salmon steaks: 0.9lb(400 g)
Zucchini flowers: 3.5oz(100 g)- (with zucchinis)
Porcini mushrooms: 7oz(200 g)
Feta cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Marjoram: 2sprigs
Dill: 2sprigs
Lime: 1- juice and zest
Black pepper: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Eggs: - 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + resting time for the dough

instructions:
To prepare the salmon, porcini, and zucchini flower strudel, start with the strudel dough: in a bowl, pour the sifted flour, add the salt , then the egg; then also pour in the water . Next, pour in the oil and start kneading.
Work the mixture in the bowl until the liquids are absorbed and the dough takes shape . Then lightly oil the work surface and handle the dough until smooth and elastic. Make a ball with the dough , place it in a bowl, cover it with plastic wrap , and let it rest in a cool place for at least 30 minutes. Then proceed to clean the mushrooms: remove the more earthy end of the stem .
Then gently rub the stems and caps of the mushrooms with a damp cloth , if necessary, you can gently rinse the mushrooms under running water. Then slice them quite thin and place them in a bowl; drizzle with a thread of oil .
Then add salt and pepper to taste, the juice of 1 filtered lemon , and let them marinate. Then move on to the zucchini flowers (to use with the small zucchinis): remove the pistil by gently opening the flowers , then clean them with a damp cloth, then split them in half lengthwise .
Place them in a baking dish, salt and pepper to taste, then drizzle with a thread of oil . Then move on to the salmon: check that the fillet does not have any bones, otherwise, you can remove them with kitchen tweezers ; then thinly slice the salmon with a sharp knife .
Then chop the thyme and dill ; then place the salmon slices in a large baking dish, distribute the herb mixture .
Salt, pepper, and add a thread of oil , grate the lime zest , and let it rest. Finally, crumble the feta in a small bowl .
Let all the filling ingredients marinate and take the dough back. Set aside about 80 g (for decorations) while you roll the rest out on a lightly floured kitchen towel placed on a work surface, helping yourself with a rolling pin into a rectangle measuring 18x14 inches . Arrange the filling layers leaving 1.2 inches from the edge: start with the zucchini flowers, then overlap the mushrooms and salmon slices .
Sprinkle everything with the feta ; then brush the inner edges with some water , then using the kitchen towel, start rolling the strudel .
Continue rolling the strudel on itself , seal the ends by folding them under the roll, then with the help of the towel, transfer the strudel onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper (with the folded ends resting on the base) . Make the decorations by rolling out the dough you set aside and using cookie cutters to create shapes of your choice: we chose to make little flowers and leaves .
Brush the surface of the strudel with 1 beaten egg and place the decorations , then brush them as well. Bake the salmon, porcini, and zucchini flower strudel in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 40 minutes (if fan-forced, at 320°F for about 30 minutes). Once ready, take it out of the oven and let it cool slightly, then slice it to serve as an appetizer or main dish!
Store the salmon, porcini, and zucchini flower strudel in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, covered with plastic wrap.
It can be frozen if you have used all fresh, non-defrosted ingredients.

If you prefer, you can use another cheese like Emmental or a not too aged caciotta.

