name:
Twisted Breadsticks
ingredients:
Semolina: 1tbsp(15 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Water: 1 ½cup(350 ml)
Brewer's yeast: ¾tsp(4 g)
Malt: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1.3tsp(8 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.4tbsp(20 ml)
Cherry tomato cream: ½cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 60 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the dough rising time

instructions:
To prepare the twisted breadsticks, place the sifted flour together with the dry yeast in a bowl . Dissolve the malt in part of the water, about 2/3 of the dose , and dissolve the salt in the remaining water, mixing well with a teaspoon .
Add the water with the salt to the oil and mix. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle, pour the flour with the yeast and the water with the malt , then turn on the paddle and pour the oil in a thin stream .
Continue with the mixer until the dough gathers around the paddle . Transfer the dough you have obtained onto a floured work surface and work it until it is smooth and elastic .
Place the dough in a bowl and let it rest for 30 minutes covered with plastic wrap . Then roll out a rectangular sheet measuring 12x14 inches on a floured work surface; gently wrap it around the rolling pin and place it on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and with your fingertips press from the center towards the sides.
Brush the entire surface with olive oil , then sprinkle with semolina flour . Cover the baking tray with plastic wrap and let it rise in the turned-off oven but with the light on for at least 1 hour.
After an hour, the dough will be more swollen and well-risen . Take the cherry tomato cream and drain the oil on the surface , keeping it aside to brush the breadsticks before baking them; transfer the cream to a bowl and soften it by mixing with a spoon. Evenly brush the surface of the dough with the cherry tomato cream to cover it entirely .
At this point, you can shape the breadsticks: with a pasta cutter wheel, cut the shorter side of the sheet in half to divide it into 2 equal parts ; then from each half, cutting in the opposite direction, cut strips 0.4 inches wide and about 6 inches long . Slightly pull each strip and then twist it by turning the two ends in the opposite direction to twist the dough on itself .
Repeat the operation, arranging the breadsticks next to each other on a baking tray lined with parchment paper: with these doses, you should obtain 60 breadsticks. Brush the first tray of breadsticks with the oil of the cherry tomato cream that you kept aside and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 20 minutes (320°F for 13-15 minutes if in a convection oven), until they are well golden brown . Once ready, take them out, placing them on a tray lined with parchment paper, and then continue with the other breadsticks. Let them cool completely and finally, you can serve and enjoy the twisted breadsticks .
Store the twisted breadsticks at room temperature, placed in a paper bag, for up to 2-3 days.
Want to add more taste and flavor to your breadsticks? Try enriching them with olive pâté, pesto, or with mixed nuts and seeds! If you prefer a more classic version, you can leave them plain, adding a bit of salt, or use whole wheat flour.

