name:
Tonnarelli with clams, porcini mushrooms, and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Egg Spaghetti alla Chitarra pasta: 14oz(400 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 2 ½cups(350 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Porcini mushrooms: 5 ½cups(400 g)
Clams: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Parsley: 0.4oz(10 g)
White wine: 2oz(60 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 ml)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 24 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the tonnarelli with clams, porcini mushrooms, and cherry tomatoes, clean the clams: check that they do not contain sand by tapping them one by one on a cutting board on the opening side . If dark sand comes out, it means the clam will be full of sand and should therefore be discarded. Also discard those with broken shells. Then place the clams in a colander resting on a bowl and rinse them several times under running water: finish when no more sand can be seen in the bowl. Pour a drizzle of oil into a large pot and a peeled garlic clove and let it brown for a few moments.
Transfer the clams to the pan, pour in the white wine and let it evaporate, then cover with the lid and turn the heat to high: this way the shells will open with the heat .
Drain the clams and preserve the cooking liquid that has formed. Shell them, making sure to keep some whole for plate decoration . Wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them into quarters ,
then take care of the How to Clean Porcini Mushrooms : With the help of a sharp knife with a smooth blade, begin to eliminate the earthy part on the stem by scraping it gently until any trace of earth is removed. If the mushroom is fairly clean, remove the few remaining earth residues with a cotton cloth . Slice the mushrooms , they should be about 1/4 inch thick. Place a wide pan on the heat, brown a garlic clove with a drizzle of olive oil , before proceeding with adding the other ingredients, remove the garlic which will have released its aroma,
add the chopped parsley and sliced porcini mushrooms , salt and pepper , then cook for a couple of minutes; also add the cherry tomatoes ,
pour in the clam cooking water and cook for about 10 minutes, then turn off the heat and incorporate the clams . Meanwhile, place a pot with plenty of salted water on the heat and bring it to a boil, then add the tonnarelli and cook for the time indicated on the package.
When the pasta is cooked, drain it directly into the mushroom sauce , toss together for a few moments, and then season with chopped parsley to taste . Serve the tonnarelli with clams, porcini mushrooms, and cherry tomatoes hot .
It is recommended to consume the tonnarelli with clams, porcini mushrooms, and cherry tomatoes immediately, it is possible to freeze the sauce if you have used fresh non-defrosted ingredients.
Be careful with the clam cooking: if prolonged, it can compromise the tenderness of the seafood.

