name:
Open lasagna with salmon, grilled zucchini, and eggplants
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 8
Eggplant: 7oz(200 g)
Zucchini: 1.25lbs(300 g)
Salmon fillets: 1.3lbs(600 g)- Norwegian
Whole milk: 1cup(250 ml)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Thyme: 1sprig
Lemon peel: 1- (untreated)
Shallot: 0.9cup(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 ml)
Type 00 flour: 0.9oz(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the open lasagna with salmon, grilled zucchini, and eggplants, start by preparing the béchamel. Finely chop the shallot , stew it for 10 minutes over low heat in a non-stick pan with a drizzle of oil , stirring well with a spatula; when the shallot is ready, turn off and set aside .
In a pot, bring the milk, lemon zest, and thyme leaves to a boil , then strain the mixture through a sieve . In another small pot, melt the butter cut into pieces, add the flour , and heat the mixture to create the roux;
incorporate the strained milk and stir with a whisk; continue cooking until the sauce has thickened while stirring quickly, then turn off the heat. At this point, place the béchamel in a bowl and add the stewed shallots .
Blend the béchamel with an immersion blender until smooth and homogeneous and set aside . Take the salmon, run your fingertips over the flesh to check for any bones (remove them with kitchen tweezers if necessary), then place it in a baking sheet lined with parchment paper ; bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 10 minutes (or at 300°F for 7-8 minutes if in a fan oven) and in the meantime get the vegetables ready. Wash the eggplants and zucchinis thoroughly under cold running water and then use a mandoline to slice them thinly .
Grill the eggplants and zucchinis on a well-heated grill, turning them on both sides. When finished, cut the grilled vegetables in half, which you will then use to fill the mini lasagnas .
Put a pot of salted water on the heat with a drizzle of oil and bring to a boil to briefly cook the lasagna sheets: cook each sheet for about 3 minutes , then drain with a slotted spoon and place the pasta on a tray. Use a round cutter to cut out circles with a diameter of 4 inches .
When the salmon is cooked , let it cool, then cut it into cubes measuring 3/4 inch by 3/4 inch . Now, assemble the layers of the mini lasagna on a serving plate, starting with a spoonful of béchamel .
With the help of the round cutter, place a layer of pasta sheet , then add the grilled vegetables, 4 pieces of cubed salmon , and finally another teaspoon of béchamel .
Continue alternating the ingredients to create more layers , reserving some béchamel for decoration, and finish without covering with pasta ; once assembled, remove the round cutter, garnish as desired with the remaining béchamel, then serve and enjoy the open lasagna with salmon, grilled zucchini, and eggplants .
It is recommended to consume the open lasagna with salmon, grilled zucchini, and eggplants immediately while hot. You can prepare the grilled vegetables and béchamel the day before, storing them in the fridge covered with plastic wrap, and then assemble the mini lasagna.
Tip for cooking the salmon: if you prefer, you can also cook it on the stove in a well-heated non-stick pan.
Don't throw away the pasta scraps you cut: you can add them to the different layers to further enrich your mini lasagna!

