name:
White chocolate, condensed milk and raspberry cakes
ingredients:
White chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Condensed milk: ½cup(150 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)
Sugar: 4tsp(20 g)
Type 00 flour: 5tbsp(40 g)
Cornstarch: 5tbsp(40 g)
Raspberries: 1.6cups(200 g)
Sugar: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 18 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the white chocolate, condensed milk, and raspberry cakes, start by roughly chopping the white chocolate , place it in a bowl, add the condensed milk , and melt them in the microwave (or in a bain-marie, ensuring the water in the pan doesn’t touch the bottom of the pan where you'll melt the chocolate and condensed milk). In a separate bowl, combine the eggs with the sugar ;
briefly whisk them together then add the cooled melted white chocolate mixture along with the cooled melted butter .
Then sift the flour and cornstarch and add them to the mixture obtained (7-8). Butter and flour 4 disposable aluminum molds .
Pour the mixture up to ¾ of the mold and insert a raspberry in the center . Bake the cakes in a preheated static oven at 375°F for about 10 minutes (340°F for 5-6 minutes for a convection oven, turning the tray halfway through baking). Once cooked, remove from the oven .
While the cakes are baking, prepare the accompanying raspberry coulis: in a blender, pour the fresh raspberries (leave some aside for decoration) and the powdered sugar ; blend everything to obtain a smooth puree, filter it with a fine mesh sieve to remove any seeds or lumps. Then halve the raspberries you left whole, for decoration .
Distribute the coulis in a thin layer on a serving plate , unmold the white chocolate, condensed milk, and raspberry cakes and turn them over onto the coulis , decorate them with fresh raspberries and serve!
The white chocolate, condensed milk, and raspberry cakes can be frozen before baking; when ready to bake, do so still frozen at 350°F for about 10 minutes. You can bake one to better test the time and temperature.
For this recipe, baking is crucial: do not open the oven during baking. A change in temperature will permanently ruin the cakes!
If you love this flavor combination, don't miss our Soft tart with white chocolate and red fruits.

