name:
Tarts with frangipane cream and cherry jam
ingredients:
Butter: 9.5oz(270 g)- cold from the refrigerator
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Egg yolks: 4
Powdered sugar: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Almond flour: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- (at room temperature)
Eggs: 2
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Cherry jam: 1cup(250 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
To make the mini tarts with frangipane cream and cherry jam, start by preparing the shortcrust pastry: place the sifted flour, a pinch of salt, and the cold butter from the fridge cut into cubes in a mixer. Blend everything until you get a sandy and floury mixture ; pour the obtained mixture onto a work surface (or into a bowl), create a well, and add the sifted powdered sugar in the center .
Pour in the egg yolks, then start mixing everything with a fork . When the eggs have absorbed the flour, you can continue by hand: knead briefly, just enough to compact the dough so that the pastry doesn't heat up too much with the warmth of your hands and remains crumbly. Form a dough ball, flatten it so it cools more easily, and wrap it in plastic wrap , placing it in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes.
In the meantime, you can prepare the frangipane cream: in a bowl, pour the room temperature butter cut into pieces and the sugar . Work with an electric mixer with beaters , and when the mixture is well whipped, add one egg at a time , waiting for the previous one to be incorporated and continuing with the beaters.
Scrape down the sides with a spatula and finally add the almond flour , then put the cream in a piping bag without a nozzle, placing it in the refrigerator . After the necessary time, roll out the shortcrust pastry with a rolling pin to a thickness of about 0.4 inches .
With a pastry cutter 5.5 inches in diameter, cut out 4 disks and line 4 non-stick round molds, previously buttered and floured, of the size of 4 inches in diameter and with a rim 1.2 inches high ; press lightly with your fingers on the bottom and sides to adhere the dough well, then with a small knife, trim the excess dough, saving the leftover dough . If you want to make a single tart, you can use a mold with a diameter of 11 inches with a rim 1.6 inches high.
Then proceed to the filling: with the help of the piping bag, fill about 0.4 inches of the bottom of the mini tarts with the frangipane cream and then finish with the cherry jam, filling the mold to the rim . Then proceed to the decoration: roll out the reserved shortcrust pastry to a thickness of 0.16 inches and then with a fluted pastry wheel cut strips 0.4 inches wide .
Apply the shortcrust pastry strips on the mini tarts to create a decorative lattice pattern . Once finished , bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 40 minutes (or in a ventilated oven at 300°F for 30 minutes). When ready, take them out of the oven , let them cool completely on a wire rack, then remove from the molds. Finally, serve and enjoy your mini tarts with frangipane cream and cherry jam.
Store the mini tarts with frangipane cream and cherry jam under a glass bell for 3-4 days at most. If you want, you can freeze the shortcrust pastry and then thaw it in the refrigerator when needed.
Want to add more flavor and sweetness to your mini tarts? Try flavoring the shortcrust pastry with the seeds of a vanilla bean or with grated orange zest! You can also replace the powdered sugar with whole cane sugar: you'll get a pastry with a stronger flavor and a crunchier finish!

