name:
Cod with plums, raisins and pine nuts
ingredients:
Desalted cod: 1.5lbs(700 g)- (already soaked)
Potatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Shallot: 1.8oz(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: 1.7oz(50 ml)
Tomato purée: 0.67cup(150 g)
Raisins: 3tbsp(30 g)
Pine nuts: 4tbsp(30 g)
Dried prunes: ½cup(100 g)
Olive oil: 2tbsp(30 ml)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Parsley: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the cod with plums, raisins, and pine nuts, wash the raisins and soak them together with the plums for at least 10 minutes in a bowl filled with water , then drain them and set aside. In the meantime, take the already-soaked cod fillets and remove the bones with a special tweezers ; if the cod hasn't been soaked, you'll need to desalinate it by placing it in a bowl full of cold water for a couple of days, taking care to change the water every 6 hours or so. Also chop the thyme leaves and parsley and set aside, they will be used to flavor the dish.
Peel the shallot, chop it finely , let it soften over low heat in a saucepan with a drizzle of oil for 8-10 minutes, then add the chopped garlic .
Add the cod fillets, chopped thyme, white wine and cook for 5 minutes. Then pour in the tomato puree and mix with a wooden spoon. Season with salt and pepper to your liking and cover with the lid , continuing to cook over moderate heat for another 20 minutes.
Peel the potatoes and slice them with a mandoline , they should be about 1/16 inch thick, as you cut them place them in a bowl with cold water to prevent them from browning; then add them to the cod and cook for another 30 minutes . Meanwhile, in a separate pan, toast the pine nuts .
Cut the plums in half to remove the pit and then slice them , after which add them to the cod with the raisins
the plums and the chopped herbs ; continue cooking for another 5 minutes. Finally, plate the dish and garnish the cod with the toasted pine nuts .
Store the cod with plums, raisins, and pine nuts in the refrigerator for a couple of days in an airtight container. It is possible to freeze the preparation after cooking only if non-defrosted ingredients were used.
When the season allows, use cherry tomatoes to flavor the cod, it will be even more fragrant and tasty!

