name:
Lasagna with porcini mushrooms, pumpkin and gorgonzola
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 9oz(250 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)- to grate
Porcini mushrooms: 2lbs(900 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.4tbsp(50 ml)
White wine: 1.33oz(40 ml)
Thyme: 1sprig
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Pumpkin: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Rosemary: 4sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(45 ml)
Whole milk: 2 ¾cups(650 ml)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 22 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
To make the lasagna with porcini, pumpkin, and gorgonzola, slice the pumpkin, peel it and cut it into cubes , line a baking sheet with parchment paper and distribute the pumpkin cubes on top, season with rosemary, salt, pepper, and a drizzle of olive oil .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 425°F-465°F for 25 minutes, plus 5 minutes with the grill (if using a ventilated oven, bake at 425°F for 15 minutes). In the meantime, take care of cleaning the porcini mushrooms: With the help of a sharp knife with a smooth blade, begin to remove the earthy part on the stem, gently scraping it until any trace of soil is removed , remove further soil residues with a damp cotton cloth. Slice the mushrooms, they should be about 2-3 mm thick . In a pan, sauté the garlic with a drizzle of oil , just long enough to flavor the oil,
then remove the garlic and add the sliced porcini mushrooms , splash with white wine , add salt and pepper, cook over high heat for 6 minutes. Meanwhile, chop the parsley and thyme leaves and add them to the mushrooms .
In the meantime, the pumpkin will also be ready, remove it from the oven and let it cool slightly . Prepare the béchamel: cut the gorgonzola into cubes, heat the milk in a saucepan flavored with nutmeg .
In another saucepan, melt the butter cut into pieces over low heat and incorporate the sifted flour , quickly stirring with the whisk to create the roux,
at this point, pour the hot milk onto the roux in a thin stream, always stirring and keeping the heat low, continue until the sauce has thickened and then add the gorgonzola cubes , keeping aside 50 g that will be used for the final layer of the lasagna. Adjust the salt if necessary, and now everything is ready to assemble the lasagna: take an 8x12 inch baking dish, spread a layer of béchamel with gorgonzola on the bottom , place 4 sheets of lasagna slightly overlapping ,
cover the sheets with béchamel , then spread over the sautéed mushrooms and the pumpkin cubes .
Make another layer with 3 sheets , to ensure the lasagna is compact, arrange one layer of sheets vertically and one horizontally. Spread the béchamel on top and continue with the same filling of porcini and pumpkin , alternate a layer of 4 sheets, béchamel, and porcini and pumpkin filling, and finish with a last layer composed of 3 sheets , béchamel, mushrooms, pumpkin, sprinkle the surface with Grana Padano, and add the cubed gorgonzola set aside.
Sprinkle the surface with Grana and add the cubed gorgonzola set aside . Bake in a preheated static oven at 425°F for 20 minutes (or at 390°F for 10-15 minutes). Once cooked, remove the lasagna with porcini, pumpkin, and gorgonzola and let it cool slightly before serving.
You can store the lasagna with porcini, pumpkin, and gorgonzola in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for 1-2 days. They can be prepared the day before, kept in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap, and cooked the next day. They can be frozen, only if all fresh ingredients have been used, better if raw: to cook, it will be sufficient to thaw them in the refrigerator about 24 hours before and then cook in the oven.
If you do not like the strong taste of gorgonzola, you can flavor with taleggio or brie.

