name:
Flower Cake
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 4cups(500 g)
Water: 4 ¾tbsp(70 g)- (at room temperature)
Brewer's yeast: 1 ¼tsp(6 g)
Whole milk: ¾cup(180 g)- (at room temperature)
Malt: 0.4oz(10 g)
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Butter: ¼cup(60 g)
Nutella: 1 ¼cup(360 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the dough rising time

instructions:
To prepare the Flower Cake, start by placing the sifted Manitoba flour into the bowl of a stand mixer, also add the sugar , the dry yeast , and the milk at room temperature (if the dry yeast you use needs to be dissolved in a liquid, you can dissolve it in a little lukewarm milk taken from the full amount. You can also use fresh brewer's yeast: in this case, the dose to use is 18 g). Turn on the stand mixer with the paddle attachment and work the dough.
When the liquid ingredients have absorbed, remove the paddle and attach the dough hook , then restart the stand mixer while pouring in the lukewarm water in a stream ; then add the malt (alternatively you can use the same amount of honey);
then add the eggs one at a time , waiting for one to be incorporated before adding another. Knead until you achieve a smooth and homogeneous consistency and until the dough detaches from the sides and clings to the hook . At this point, you can add the softened butter one piece at a time, waiting for it to be absorbed before proceeding with another piece . When all the butter is absorbed and the dough becomes shiny and well combined, stop the stand mixer, transfer the dough to a work surface, grease your hands with butter, and continue kneading for a few minutes.
Then form a ball with the dough, transfer it to a slightly buttered bowl, and cover with plastic wrap . Let it rise for 3 hours in an oven turned off with the light on (or until it has doubled in volume); after this time, take the dough and divide it into 4 parts of the same weight . Handle each piece to give it a round shape .
Place the 4 balls to rest covered with plastic wrap for at least 20 minutes at room temperature. Then lightly flour a work surface, gently press each ball and roll it out with a rolling pin on a sheet of parchment paper, until you obtain a disc 10 inches in diameter ; let the disc firm up in the refrigerator for at least 20 minutes and proceed gradually with the others, repeating the same operations. Then take out the first disc you rolled out and spread the surface with Nutella ;
then take another disc, to place on top of the Nutella layer ; continue this way until you finish the ingredients: the last layer should be brioche dough. Let everything rest for at least 30 minutes in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap (to help you transfer, you can place the dough on a tray and store it in the refrigerator). Make cuts on the surface leaving a margin from the center; start with 4 crosswise cuts, then make another cut between each . Continue until you've made 16; then take each segment with your fingers and twist each one on itself but in opposite directions, making a full turn
and joining the shorter sides that will be facing upwards . Complete the cake by performing the same operation for all pairs of segments, then place it with parchment paper on a baking sheet and let it rise for at least 1 hour covered with plastic wrap. After this time , bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 40 minutes (at 320°F for about 30 minutes if using a convection oven). Once cooked, remove the flower cake from the oven and let it cool on a rack, then serve it!
Store the flower cake under a glass dome or covered with plastic wrap for 1-2 days.
You can freeze it already formed before the second rising, then let it thaw in the refrigerator and bring it back to room temperature; then let it rise for 1 hour before baking it.
You can fill the flower cake as you like, even with jam of your choice or cream!

