name:
Chestnut flour crepes with mascarpone and chocolate ganache
ingredients:
Chestnut flour: 1cup(125 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Sugar: 5tbsp(60 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Eggs: 3
Milk: 2cups(500 ml)
Orange peel: 1- (non trattata)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Mascarpone cheese: 3.3cups(800 g)
Powdered sugar: ½cup(70 g)
Dark chocolate: 7.1oz(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 ml)
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Before starting to prepare the chestnut flour crepes with mascarpone and chocolate ganache, make sure to melt and then cool the butter. Begin with the crepe batter: place the sifted all-purpose flour and chestnut flour in a large, high-rimmed bowl , add the sugar , and the pinch of salt .
Pour the milk in a thin stream, stirring well with a whisk to avoid lumps , then add the melted and cooled butter . In a separate small bowl, beat the eggs and then add them to the mixture .
Add the grated orange zest and mix to combine the ingredients until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous batter; place the batter in the refrigerator to rest for at least 30 minutes, covered with plastic wrap . Meanwhile, prepare the mascarpone cream: in a bowl, mix the mascarpone with a whisk to soften it ,
Then add the sifted powdered sugar, always stirring . Once ready , cover the mascarpone cream with plastic wrap in contact and place it in the refrigerator to rest. Meanwhile, prepare the chocolate ganache: heat the fresh cream in a saucepan and, in the meantime, coarsely chop the dark chocolate with a knife .
As soon as the cream begins to boil, turn off the heat and add the chopped chocolate. Stir with a wooden spoon to combine the ingredients and, when the chocolate is completely melted , cool the ganache by placing it in a bain-marie in a bowl full of ice; using an electric mixer, work the ganache for about 10 minutes to make it creamy, dense, and glossy , then set aside.
After the necessary time, heat a knob of butter in a non-stick pan with a diameter of 10 inches , spreading it over the entire surface with a sheet of paper . Remove the crepe batter from the refrigerator
And pour a ladle of batter in the center of the pan , rotating it so that it spreads evenly over the entire surface . Cook the crepe on one side for a few minutes, then gently flip it with a spatula , cooking it for another minute on the other side.
Transfer the ready crepes to a plate and stack them one on top of the other , repeating the operation until the batter is finished: with these quantities, you will obtain 8 crepes. At this point, take a crepe and use a spoon to fill it halfway with the mascarpone cream ; fold it into a half-moon
And then fold it again in half ; plate on a serving dish and decorate as desired with the ganache . Serve the chestnut flour crepes with mascarpone and chocolate ganache hot .
It is advisable to consume the chestnut flour crepes with mascarpone and chocolate ganache immediately. You can store the preparations separately: the crepes in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for up to 1-2 days; the ganache and mascarpone cream in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap in contact for up to 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
Want to make your crepes even more delicious? Simple! Just add 2-3 teaspoons of unsweetened cocoa powder instead of the same weight of flour and ... voila!

