name:
Sweet buns with fruit
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(2 g)
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Whole milk: 1 ½cup(350 ml)
Orange peel: 1- (non trattata)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Dried prunes: 3.5oz(100 g)- from Roero, cooked sous-vide
Pears: 2.8oz(80 g)- Madarnassa cooked sous-vide
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 18 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 3 hours and a half of rising time

instructions:
Before preparing the sweet buns with dried fruit, make sure to melt the butter and then let it cool; then leave the milk at room temperature so it will be at the right temperature when you need to use it in the dough. Prepare the dough by pouring the sifted all-purpose flour and bread flour into the bowl of the stand mixer ; add the dry yeast and sugar .
Also add the grated zest of one orange ; turn on the paddle and slowly pour in the warm milk and continue until all the ingredients are well combined .

At this point, replace the paddle with the dough hook, turn on the stand mixer, and add the melted and cooled butter and then the salt ; let the dough wrap around the hook and after about 15 minutes, use a spatula to transfer the soft dough onto a slightly oiled work surface .
Knead the dough by hand for at least 15 minutes until it becomes smooth and elastic, then form a ball ; place the dough you've obtained in a large bowl covered with plastic wrap , then let it rise in a switched-off oven with the light on for 3 hours: the dough should double in size. In the meantime, take the sous-vide cooked fruit: you can dice the pears and plums into very small pieces .
After the rising time, take the dough (which will have doubled in size) and transfer it to an oiled work surface; slightly stretch the dough, add the diced fruit , then knead well to incorporate the fruit pieces .
Then, with the help of a dough scraper, divide the dough into 18 pieces weighing 2 oz each . Work each piece to create balls, bringing the dough from the outside to the inside with your fingers ; repeat the operation and then place the balls you have obtained well spaced, keeping the closure at the bottom, on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Cover with plastic wrap and let rise again in the switched-off oven with the light on for another 30 minutes.
Then brush the surface of the buns with a beaten egg to make them shiny and golden and then bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F for about 20 minutes (or in a convection oven at 320°F for 15 minutes). When they are golden brown on the surface , take the sweet buns with dried fruit out of the oven, place them on a wire rack to cool completely, and then serve.
Store the sweet buns with fruit at room temperature, in a plastic bag, for up to 3-4 days. The buns can be frozen once completely cooled at room temperature. Before reheating them in the oven, they can be thawed a few hours earlier in the refrigerator.
As an alternative to fresh fruit, you can use dried fruit, soaking it in water or fruit juice an hour before preparation. Choose from plums, apricots, berries, or raisins and create your mix of ingredients!

