name:
Sweet Apricot Dumplings
ingredients:
Cream cheese: 1.8cups(400 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Orange peel: ½
Butter: 5.6tbsp(80 g)- (softened)
Egg yolks: 3
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Almond flour: ½cup(50 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Vanilla bean: 1
Apricots in syrup: 8
Sugar: 4- sugar cubes
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(60 g)
Brown sugar: ¼cup(60 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp
Butter: to taste
Dark chocolate: 10.5oz(300 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ⅓cup(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus the resting time for the dough

instructions:
To make the sweet apricot dumplings, soften the butter and place it in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment , add the egg yolks and the salt, and start the machine until you get a light mixture. At this point, add the cream cheese and continue to whip the mixture.
When it is smooth, turn off the machine and incorporate the powdered sugar. Cut the vanilla bean lengthwise, extract the seeds and add them to the dough . Sift the all-purpose flour and almond flour directly into the bowl.
Add the grated orange zest , mix the dough with a spatula , then spread the dough on a sheet of parchment paper, giving it dimensions of approximately 8 x 16 inches . Cover with another sheet of parchment paper and refrigerate to firm up for about 1 hour on a tray.
Drain the apricots from their syrup . If you use dried apricots, you will need to rehydrate them in warm water, then gently squeeze them, and if they have pits, remove them. If it is in season, you can use small fresh apricots. When the dough is cold and manageable, divide it by cutting it into 8 squares of the same size , take each portion and place half an apricot in the center .
Stuff it in the center with half a sugar cube and close with the other half of the apricot . Wrap the dough around the apricot forming a ball and seal the contents well. Continue with the rest of the ingredients to form 8 dumplings, which you will place on a sheet of parchment paper , cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for half an hour.
In the meantime, you can prepare the accompanying chocolate sauce. Chop the dark chocolate and place it to melt in a double boiler (or in the microwave); when it is melted, add the hot cream and stir until you get a thick cream , which you will set aside.
When the dumplings are well-chilled and compact, boil them (4 at a time) by allowing them to simmer for about 10 minutes in boiling salted water , then drain them , and pass them in a mix of breadcrumbs, brown sugar, and cinnamon powder .
Gradually place the breaded dumplings on a serving plate . On a dessert plate, distribute the chocolate sauce on the bottom and place the cooked sweet apricot dumplings on top, optionally garnishing with melted butter .
Store the sweet apricot dumplings without chocolate sauce in the refrigerator for a couple of days, covered with plastic wrap. You can freeze the dumplings uncooked.
Alternatively, you can toast the breadcrumbs, sugar, and cinnamon in a pan with butter and then toss in the freshly boiled dumplings. If you like liqueurs or sweet wines like Muscat, you can use them to rehydrate the dried apricots (or even prunes or figs). If you use fresh fruit for the filling instead, you can opt for strawberries or berries previously coated in sugar.

