name:
Savory Fried Bombs
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1cup(125 g)
Water: ⅓cup(75 ml)- (at room temperature)
Brewer's yeast: ¼tsp(1 g)
Manitoba flour: 4cups(500 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(3 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Eggs: 4- (medium)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- (softened)
Water: ½cup(120 ml)- (at room temperature)
Fine salt: 2.1tsp(12 g)
Malt: 1tsp
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Fresh liquid cream: 7.1tbsp(35 ml)
Type 00 flour: 0.67cup(80 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Asiago cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- aged (for grating)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Peanut seed oil: 3.1cups(750 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the time for dough rising and cream cooling

instructions:
To prepare the fried bombs, start with the starter: in a bowl, pour the sifted Manitoba flour, the dried brewer's yeast, and the water at room temperature . You can also use fresh brewer's yeast: in this case, the dose is 3 g. Work the mixture with your hands and form a ball that you can leave to rise in the oven turned off with the light on for 2 hours, covered with plastic wrap.
After two hours, the starter will have doubled in volume , then pour it into the bowl of a stand mixer (or in a bowl if kneading by hand) equipped with a paddle and add the eggs .
Pour the malt (or sugar) , then gradually the sifted flour , the dried brewer's yeast , and the baking powder for savory preparations. As for the brewer's yeast, if you're using fresh yeast, the dose is 9 g. Turn on the stand mixer.
Pour the room temperature water and lastly the salt, then continue working the ingredients with the paddle; when the dough is well blended, remove the paddle and attach the dough hook. Then knead for about 15 minutes, then add the softened butter in pieces gradually, waiting for the first piece to be absorbed before proceeding with the next . Once you've incorporated all the butter, the dough will be smooth and homogeneous, and you can stop the stand mixer. Turn the dough out onto the work surface and form a ball, then lightly butter a bowl and place the dough inside : cover with plastic wrap and let rise in the oven turned off with the light on for 2 hours (or covered with a wool blanket).
While the dough is rising, prepare the Mornay Sauce : grate the aged Asiago cheese, then in a saucepan, melt the butter over low heat, then remove it from the heat to add the flour gradually, stirring with a whisk to avoid lumps . Place the saucepan back on the heat and toast the flour for a few moments, and when it turns golden, add the milk at room temperature or slightly warmed . Stir continuously, season with salt, and flavor with a pinch of nutmeg. Then once it reaches a boil, remove from heat and add the grated Asiago cheese .
In a separate bowl, beat the egg yolks with the fresh liquid cream , then add them to the béchamel and mix to combine the ingredients (if necessary, you can bring the sauce back to the heat to thicken it further). Once ready, pour the sauce into a low and wide dish and cover with cling film in contact to let it cool at room temperature, then place it in the refrigerator.
After the necessary time, take the dough and roll it out on a lightly floured work surface into a rectangle about 1 inch thick . With a 2.5-inch diameter round cutter, cut out the disks ; you can re-knead the scraps and let the dough rise for about 30 minutes before making more shapes: as you make the disks, place them on a tray lined with parchment paper : with these doses, you will get 24 disks. Let them rise for about half an hour in the oven turned off with the light on.
Then cut a square of parchment paper around each disk and fry a few disks at a time in plenty of peanut oil , brought to a temperature of 350-360°F (you can measure it with a kitchen thermometer). Once the disks are placed in the oil, remove the parchment paper with kitchen tongs
and occasionally turn the bombs to brown and puff them uniformly. When they are golden, drain them with a slotted spoon and place them on a tray lined with paper towels. While the bombs cool slightly, place the Mornay sauce in a pastry bag with a syringe nozzle , then fill each savory fried bomb with the sauce and serve them still warm or slightly reheated in the oven!
It is preferable to serve fried bombs freshly made, still warm. Without filling, they can be kept under a glass dome for a maximum of 1 day. The cream can be stored in the refrigerator covered with cling film for 1-2 days. They can be frozen raw and thawed in the refrigerator, then left to rise for at least 1 hour before frying.

Instead of Asiago, you can use another cheese of your choice.

