name:
Pistachio and White Chocolate Cantucci
ingredients:
Unsalted pistachios: 1 ¼cup(150 g)- shelled
White chocolate: 2.1oz(60 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Baking powder: ½tsp(2 g)
Eggs: 2
Sugar: ⅓cup(80 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(60 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the pistachio and white chocolate biscotti, first start by toasting the unsalted shelled pistachios: evenly place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper; bake in a static oven preheated to 320°F for 20 minutes (or in a fan oven at 285°F for 15 minutes) . During baking, ensure the pistachios do not darken too much: if they do, remove them immediately and place them in a small bowl. Meanwhile, coarsely chop the white chocolate and then melt it in a double boiler, ensuring the water below does not touch the bowl's bottom (alternatively, you can melt it in the microwave on the lowest setting). Now proceed with preparing the dough by heating the cream in a saucepan .
When the cream reaches a boil, add it to the melted chocolate and stir with a spoon until you obtain a smooth and creamy texture. Set the cream aside to cool. In a stand mixer fitted with a whisk, beat the whole eggs and sugar , and when they are whipped, add the warm cream and chocolate mixture .
Meanwhile, in a separate bowl, sift the flour, baking powder, and a pinch of salt and then gradually add them to the mixture one spoon at a time . Once the ingredients are well combined, replace the whisk with a paddle attachment, and then add the toasted pistachios, continuing to mix .
At this point, turn the dough onto a lightly floured work surface and divide it into 2 parts with a spatula . Shape each piece into a loaf about 14 inches long , then place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Brush the loaves with beaten egg and then bake in a static oven preheated to 375°F for 20 minutes (or in a fan oven at 340°F for 10-15 minutes) for the first bake. After the first baking , remove the loaves, place them one at a time on a cutting board, and with a sharp knife, cut them diagonally with a clean and decisive cut to avoid breaking the biscotti; you should obtain 30 slices, each about 0.4 inches thick .
At this point, place the biscotti with the flat side up back on the baking sheet, side by side . Bake the biscotti again in a static oven lowering the temperature to 340°F for 15 minutes (or in a fan oven at 300°F for 8-10 minutes). Once ready , remove them and let them cool completely on a wire rack, then serve and enjoy the pistachio and white chocolate biscotti .
Store the pistachio and white chocolate biscotti in an airtight container or a tin box for up to 2 weeks.
When cutting the biscotti, remember to use a very sharp knife and make a clean, decisive cut to prevent them from breaking. Try enjoying these biscotti by dipping them in Vin Santo, just like the tradition suggests, and discover the taste!

