name:
Stuffed Paccheri with Salted Cod on Cheese Fondue
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 14.1oz(400 g)
Desalted cod: 12.3oz(350 g)
Potatoes: 1.5lbs(650 g)
Fresh scallion: 1
Vegetable broth: 2 ½cups(600 ml)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Asiago cheese: 4.5oz(130 g)
Butter: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.7oz(20 g)
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Leeks: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the stuffed paccheri with salted cod on cheese fondue, start by cleaning the fish: take the desalted cod and remove the skin with a knife ; by running your fingertip over the flesh, check for any remaining bones, then remove them with kitchen tweezers . Once cleaned and deboned, shred the salted cod with your hands and in the meantime place a large pot with salted water on the stove to prepare the Vegetable broth .
Wash the potatoes under plenty of fresh running water, peel them, and cut them into cubes . Thinly slice the scallion , then let it soften on the stove in a non-stick pan with a drizzle of oil, also adding the thyme leaves .
At this point, add the diced potatoes , let them brown, and cover with the vegetable broth you prepared ; let it cook for 15 minutes, seasoning with salt and pepper to your liking. At this point, add the salted cod, cooking for another 5-6 minutes . Once ready, transfer the mixture to a bowl, mash it with a fork to obtain a soft puree, and let it cool slightly.
Put a pot of salted water on the stove for cooking the pasta. When the water is about to boil, pour in the paccheri : cook them al dente, paying close attention when stirring as they can break easily. Once ready, drain them, drizzle with a little oil so they don't stick, and then arrange them in a baking dish in 4 piles of 10 paccheri each, placed vertically ; put the cooled salted cod and potato filling you prepared into a piping bag without a nozzle and fill each paccheri to the brim .
In a pot of water, blanch the strands of a leek that is about 18 inches long which you will use to close the 4 bundles of stuffed paccheri . Place the paccheri under the grill for 5 minutes to create a nice crispy crust and add black pepper to taste .
Meanwhile, prepare the cheese fondue: warm the milk and separately in a double-bottomed saucepan melt the butter ; when the butter has melted, add the flour in a sprinkle , stirring well until the roux is golden. Pour in the warm milk , stirring until the béchamel is well thickened.
Then turn off the heat and add the grated Asiago, letting it melt . Once ready , remove the paccheri from the oven and proceed to serve: pour a couple of tablespoons of cheese fondue on the bottom of the plate and place a bundle of paccheri on top. Finally, you can bring to the table and enjoy the stuffed paccheri with salted cod on cheese fondue hot .
You can store the stuffed paccheri with salted cod on cheese fondue in the refrigerator for up to a couple of days. You can prepare the cheese fondue, store it in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap, and use it to season the paccheri the next day.
If you don't like scallion, you can replace it with leek or shallot!

