name:
Pistachio Marble Chocolate Loaf Cake
ingredients:
Pistachio cream: 2.5oz(70 g)
Pistachio paste: 2tbsp(30 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Eggs: 3
Condensed milk: ½cup(120 g)
Butter: 0.9cup(200 g)- (at room temperature)
Vanilla bean: 1
Baking powder: 2tsp(10 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2tbsp(30 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pistachio marbled chocolate loaf cake, take the vanilla pod, cut it lengthwise with a small knife, open it, and scrape out the seeds . Put the sugar together with the room temperature butter in the bowl of a stand mixer equipped with a whisk and mix everything by starting the machine.
Add the vanilla bean seeds to the creamy butter and sugar mixture and then the condensed milk ; then add the eggs one at a time followed by the salt.
When the eggs are combined with the mixture, add the sifted flour and baking powder one tablespoon at a time ; continue with the stand mixer, scraping down the ingredients with a spatula , then let everything blend until you get a thick and homogeneous mixture. At this point, divide the mixture you have obtained into two equal parts, placing them in two bowls .
Proceed now with preparing the first mixture; roughly chop the dark chocolate with a knife and then melt it in a double boiler in a small bowl or a smaller saucepan, ensuring that the water underneath does not come into direct contact with the bottom of the container . When the chocolate is completely melted, let it cool and then add it to one of the two mixtures ; mix well with a spatula and set aside.
Then move on to the second mixture; put the cream and pistachio paste in a small bowl , stirring with a teaspoon, and in the meantime, heat the fresh cream in the microwave for 1 minute. When the cream is warmed, pour it into the cream and pistachio paste mixture , blending the ingredients well .
Then add the pistachio mixture to the remaining second mixture : at this point, you will have obtained two mixtures of the same consistency (if not, you can add a little milk), one with dark chocolate and the other with pistachio . Butter a 12x4x3 inch loaf pan (with a capacity of 1.5 L) and line it with parchment paper, pressing well on the sides to adhere the paper on all sides .
Place the chocolate and pistachio mixtures in two piping bags without a nozzle ; place them against each other , and, holding them tightly together with your hands, fill the pan in a zigzag pattern with the batter to achieve the marbled effect . Once the first layer is complete, proceed again by reversing the colors.
Once the batter is finished , bake in a preheated static oven at 338°F for 70 minutes (or in a convection oven at 302°F for 60 minutes) until the surface of the loaf cake is golden . Remove the pistachio marbled chocolate loaf cake from the oven, let it cool slightly, then remove it from the mold; slice it and serve.
Store the pistachio marbled chocolate loaf cake under a glass dome for up to 3-4 days. It is possible to freeze the loaf cake after baking, perhaps portioned to thaw only the necessary amount.
Do you want to add an extra dose of indulgence to your loaf cake? Serve it with some good homemade chocolate sauce, and you will see that it will be a real delight for the palate!

