name:
Caramelized Orange Tart
ingredients:
Butter: 6oz(170 g)- (cold from the fridge)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Condensed milk: ½cup(115 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Orange peel: 1- (non trattata)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Whole milk: 1.7cups(400 ml)
Condensed milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Cornstarch: ½cup(60 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Oranges: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Whole cane sugar: ⅓cup(70 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + resting the pastry in the refrigerator and cooling the cream

instructions:
To prepare the caramelized orange tart, start with the crust: in a food processor with blades, pour the sifted flour and cold butter from the fridge in pieces . Make the crumbling, then pour it onto a work surface and create the classic fountain shape. Grate the zest of 1 untreated orange in the center , then add the condensed milk .
and an egg yolk . Quickly work the dough with your hands, to prevent it from heating up too much. Form a ball , flatten it and wrap it with plastic wrap ; place the crust to set in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, prepare the orange custard: in a saucepan, pour the fresh milk and condensed milk , then mix with a whisk to combine the ingredients. Add the egg yolks, one at a time , and the sifted cornstarch with a strainer .
Then add the whole zest of 1 untreated orange and turn on the low heat to cook the cream and let it thicken, stirring continuously. Once ready, remove the orange zest and pour the custard into a large and shallow baking dish .
Cover with contact film and let it cool completely first at room temperature and then in the refrigerator. Butter and flour a tart mold with fluted or smooth edges of 10 inches in diameter . Take the crust and roll it out to a thickness of 1/5 inch .
Roll the dough onto the rolling pin and gently unroll it onto the mold , then trim the edges, removing excess dough, and use it wrapped in a little plastic wrap to adhere the bottom well to the mold . Proceed with the blind baking: line the crust with parchment paper and place ceramic spheres (or legumes such as beans or chickpeas) . Then bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 20 minutes (or in a convection oven at 320°F for 10 minutes). Then remove the weights and bake for another 10 minutes at the same temperature (5 minutes if using a convection oven).
Meanwhile, prepare the caramelized oranges for decoration: peel the oranges , cut them into thin slices of about 3/8 inch , and place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper. Sprinkle each slice with raw cane sugar and place them under the grill for about 10 minutes at 465°F-480°F.
Once ready, take them out of the oven and let them cool slightly. Now that all the preparations are ready, assemble your caramelized orange tart: take the cooked and cooled base, then pour the custard into a piping bag without a nozzle and distribute it evenly , leveling with a spatula .
Then arrange the orange slices on top of the cream, arranged in a radial pattern (25-26) to cover the entire surface: your caramelized orange tart is ready to be enjoyed .
Store the caramelized orange tart in the refrigerator and keep it at room temperature for at least 15 minutes before serving.
You can freeze the crust and orange custard separately if you have used fresh, non-frozen ingredients.


Orange and cinnamon is a timeless combination: if you prefer, add a pinch of ground cinnamon to the cream to give this particular aroma!

