name:
Cookies with condensed milk with hazelnuts and chocolate chips
ingredients:
Chocolate drops: 4.2oz(120 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: 0.67cup(80 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Condensed milk: ½cup(170 g)
Butter: 1cup(225 g)- cold from the fridge
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 32 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + the resting time of the dough

instructions:
To prepare the cookies with condensed milk, hazelnuts, and chocolate chips, start by making the sandy mixture: pour the sifted flour into a mixer along with cold butter cut into pieces and salt ; pulse for a few seconds until you get a rather coarse and sandy dough .
Take the vanilla bean, slice it lengthwise, and use a knife to scrape out the seeds . Place the sandy mixture on a work surface, shaping it into a fountain with your hands, then add the vanilla bean seeds and powdered sugar .
Add the condensed milk to the center of the fountain and quickly work the mixture until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough . At this point, add the hazelnut crumble and chocolate chips , setting aside some of the latter to decorate the cookies before baking.
Quickly mix with your hands and form a block; use a spatula to divide it into 4 parts, each weighing 8.8 oz , then work each piece to form 4 logs, each about 6 inches long .
Wrap each log with plastic wrap, twisting the ends like a candy; place the logs on a tray and let them rest in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour . Then, with a smooth-edged knife, cut the logs into pieces 1 inch thick and weighing approximately 1.2 oz each : with these amounts, you should obtain 32 cookies; gently flatten the surface of the cookies with your fingers to give them a round shape .
Distribute the chocolate chips you set aside earlier on the cookies, sprinkling them evenly . Place the cookies on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 20 minutes (or in a convection oven at 300°F for 12-15 minutes). When they are golden , take the cookies out of the oven and let them cool completely on a wire rack; finally, serve and enjoy your cookies with condensed milk, hazelnuts, and chocolate chips.
You can store the cookies with condensed milk, hazelnuts, and chocolate chips in a tin box for up to 3-4 days.
If you prefer, instead of hazelnut crumble, you can use peanuts, finely chopping them before adding them to the dough!

