name:
Grandma's Muffins
ingredients:
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Butter: 0.8cup(190 g)- (at room temperature)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 ml)
Eggs: 3- medium
Vanilla bean: 1
Pine nuts: 1.8oz(50 g)
Baking powder: 4tsp(16 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Milk: 1 ¼cup(270 ml)
Fresh liquid cream: 4 ¾tbsp(70 ml)
Egg yolks: 4
Cornstarch: 4tbsp(30 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare grandma's muffins, place the room temperature butter cut into chunks in a bowl with the sugar , then mix with an electric mixer for at least 10 minutes. Once you've obtained a creamy mixture, add the whole eggs one at a time , continuing with the beaters, and then the room temperature milk in a thin stream .
Add the sifted flour along with the baking powder , a pinch of salt, and mix until the flour is incorporated . Using a small knife, cut the vanilla bean lengthwise, scrape out the seeds, and add them to the mixture .
Mix well and then place the batter into a piping bag without a nozzle . Place 12 paper liners in a muffin tin and pour about 3 oz of batter into each liner .
Once finished, sprinkle the surface of the muffins with pine nuts using a teaspoon and then bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 20 minutes (or 320°F for 15 minutes if using a convection oven). Then lower the temperature to 340°F, baking for another 10 minutes (or 300°F for 8 minutes if using a convection oven). Meanwhile, you can proceed to prepare the Pastry cream : place the milk and cream in a small pot on the stove. Then, take the vanilla bean, cut it lengthwise with a small knife, and extract the seeds, keeping the bean; add the seeds and the vanilla pod to the milk and cream . Turn on low heat, and when the mixture reaches a simmer, turn off the heat, leaving the vanilla to infuse for at least 5 minutes. Separate the egg whites from the yolks (you can use the leftover egg whites to make ladyfingers or meringues) and collect the yolks in a large bowl, adding the sugar .
Beat the yolks and sugar with an electric mixer or a hand whisk to obtain a homogeneous cream, then add the sifted cornstarch , mixing it well with the rest of the mixture . At this point, remove the vanilla bean that you left to infuse in the warmed milk and cream .
And add the egg-based mixture to the milk and cream . Turn the heat back on low and stir continuously with a whisk to thicken the mixture : when the custard is thick, pour it into a shallow and wide dish, immediately covering it with cling film in contact to prevent the annoying crust from forming; then let it cool first at room temperature and then in the refrigerator .
When the muffins are baked, take them out and let them cool. Once completely cooled , remove them from the liners and proceed with the filling. For the filling, you can proceed in two ways: with a knife, you can cut the top of the muffins, keeping it as it will be used to close them, at the paper liner level , and then hollow them out with a small round cutter to create a central hole without reaching the bottom , or carefully hollow out with a knife to remove the center part.
Using a piping bag without a nozzle, fill with the (now cold) custard you prepared ; close the muffins with the tops you reserved and serve, finishing with a dusting of powdered sugar as desired . Alternatively, you can avoid cutting the muffins and directly remove the insides, which you'll keep for decoration, using a round cutter .
Fill with custard and then with a knife, cut the reserved muffin insides in half to create small circles . Place the cut circles on the filling and finish with a dusting of powdered sugar as desired; finally, serve and enjoy grandma's muffins .
Store grandma's muffins under a glass dome, and keep the custard in the fridge for up to 2 days. You can freeze them separately after they have completely cooled, so you can assemble them at the moment.
Want to add a little extra to grandma's muffins? Try flavoring the custard with cinnamon! And if you're a chocolate lover, try making chocolate muffins by removing 3 tbsps of flour and adding 3 tbsps of cocoa: you'll taste the goodness!

