name:
Fish pie
ingredients:
Butter: 0.875cup(200 g)- (cold from the fridge)
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Water: 9 ½tbsp(140 ml)- (chilled)
Hake: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (cleaned fillet)
Fresh scallion: 1 ¼cup(100 g)
Black olives: 1.67cups(200 g)- pitted
Cherry tomatoes: 1cup(200 g)
Thyme: 6sprigs
Dill: 6sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fish fumet: 1 ¾cup(400 ml)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.3cup(40 g)
Dill: 2sprigs
Thyme: 2sprigs
Eggs: 1
Milk: 2tsp(10 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note plus the resting time for the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
To prepare the fish pie, start with the Chicken pie : put the flour, cold butter from the fridge cut into pieces , a pinch of salt into the blender and blend everything until you get a sandy and floury mixture . At this point, place the obtained mixture on a pastry board in the classic fountain shape and knead everything quickly by adding cold water little by little until you get a compact, firm, and fairly elastic dough.
Once ready, shape it into a loaf and wrap it with a sheet of kitchen film and let it rest in the fridge for at least 40 minutes. In the meantime, put the diced butter in a small pot , let it melt and add the flour ,
blend it with a whisk and then pour in the fish stock , cook until thickened over low heat, salt
finally add dill, thyme, and pepper . Set the béchamel aside and take care of cleaning the hake: make a cut on the belly and proceed straight until under the head , then collect the innards with your hands and remove them. Wash the fish's belly well under running water to remove all traces of blood. Cut the fins with special scissors, with the fish filleting knife cut the head and remove it, then cut along the dorsal part of the fish along the spine , starting from the top, and proceed by moving the blade horizontally to the work surface,
to separate the two fillets . Finally, detach the meat from the skin . Remove any bones with kitchen tweezers, then coarsely chop the hake .
wash and cut the cherry tomatoes into wedges , wash and slice the spring onion transfer it to a pan with a drizzle of oil and sauté over moderate heat
add dill and thyme and then add the chopped hake , cook for 2 minutes then flavor the fish with thyme and dill ,
also add the cherry tomato wedges , salt, pepper and continue cooking for another 6 minutes, then turn off the heat and incorporate the sauce mix with the spatula to blend it
and then also add the black olives . Take the shortcrust pastry loaf, divide it into two equal parts (keep half of the pastry aside wrapping it with film), roll out the other half with a rolling pin into a round sheet 0.08–0.12 inches thick, about 11.81 inches wide , lightly flour the work surface to prevent the sheet from sticking. Butter a wavy-edged baking pan with a diameter of 10.63 inches .
Roll the sheet onto the rolling pin and then unroll it onto the baking pan , adhere the dough to the bottom and its edges with a light pressure of your hands, cut off the excess dough along the entire perimeter of the baking tin , prick the bottom with the tines of a fork
pour the hake filling into the mold and brush the edges of the dough with the beaten egg , roll out the leftover dough into another sheet like the first ,
wrap it on the rolling pin and spread it over the baking tin, press on the edges with the rolling pin to adhere the sheet and remove the excess dough . With the leftover dough, make shapes with cookie cutters; we chose shells and little fish ,
then brush the surface of the pie with the beaten egg with milk and attach the dough shapes. Also brush these latter with the beaten egg . Bake the fish pie in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 45 minutes, then at 338°F for another 20 minutes (if a fan oven, at 320°F for 35 minutes and then at 302°F for 10 minutes). Remove the fish pie from the oven and let it cool before serving .
Store the fish pie in the refrigerator for up to a couple of days. You can freeze it if you used fresh, not defrosted ingredients.
As an alternative to hake, you can make the fish pie with sea bass, plaice, or bream. For flavoring the filling, choose the herbs you prefer: parsley or marjoram will work just fine. If you buy whole fish, use the scraps to make the stock.

