name:
Orange mousse
ingredients:
Orange juice: 0.4cup(100 ml)
Orange peel: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Sugar: 4tsp(20 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.25oz(7 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(125 g)
Water: 5tsp(25 ml)
Egg whites: ¼cup(65 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 2 h chilling in the fridge

instructions:
To prepare the orange mousse, start with the preparation of the Italian meringue. Put a saucepan on the stove, add the sugar and water and cook over low heat until the sugar has completely dissolved ; the syrup should not exceed 250°F, you can measure it with a kitchen thermometer. Meanwhile, start working the egg whites; add a pinch of salt and beat them with the stand mixer (or with an electric beater) at medium speed until they turn white.
When the syrup reaches 250°F , pour it slowly over the egg whites, continuing to work them at medium speed ; continue beating until the mixture has completely cooled. Once ready, you will get an Italian meringue with a white and fluffy texture ; set the meringue aside.
Soak the gelatin sheets in a bowl with cold water for at least 10 minutes and in the meantime prepare the orange syrup; in a saucepan, add the sugar and the grated orange zest .
Add the orange juice and cook over low heat for a few minutes until the sugar has dissolved. Let the orange syrup cool slightly and with a spatula, add it to the Italian meringue, stirring very gently from top to bottom so it doesn't deflate . Then work the liquid cream with the stand mixer until it is semi-whipped .
With a spatula, gently add the cream to the meringue, always stirring from top to bottom . Now place part of the orange mixture in a bowl, squeeze the gelatin and dissolve it in the mixture with a teaspoon (if necessary, you can dissolve it in the microwave) . When the gelatin has completely dissolved, incorporate the mixture in which you dissolved the gelatin into the Italian meringue .
Gently mix the mousse, cover it with cling film, then place it in the refrigerator to set for at least 2 hours . After the resting time, transfer the mousse into a piping bag with a smooth nozzle and pour it into the glasses . Decorate the orange mousse with a few pieces of orange, zests, a mint leaf , and serve.
You can store the orange mousse in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. You can freeze it and then let it thaw slowly in the refrigerator the day before serving.
To bring the fresh taste of citrus fruits to the table, you can replace the orange with mandarin or lemon... for an exotic variant, try our recipe for Mojito mousse !
Want to impress your guests? Present the mousse in an original and fun way by serving it inside a hollowed-out orange!

