name:
Broccoli and Anchovy Panzerotti
ingredients:
Water: 1 ¼cup(285 g)- lukewarm
Brewer's yeast: 0.8tsp(3.5 g)
Sugar: 1tsp(5 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ½tbsp(7.5 g)
Manitoba flour: 2cups(250 g)
Coarse salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 1.1cups(125 g)
Broccoli: 12.3oz(350 g)
Anchovies in oil: 0.7oz(20 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1- (small)
Garlic: - half clove
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the rising time of the dough

instructions:
To prepare the broccoli and anchovy panzerotti, pour a small amount of lukewarm water from the total amount into a small bowl, and add the dry yeast, mix, and add the sugar . You can also use fresh yeast: in this case, the dose is 10.5 g. Divide the remaining lukewarm water in half, and in one half, dissolve the salt , in the other, pour the oil. In a large bowl, place the sifted all-purpose flour and bread flour, then pour the yeast dissolved in water .
Also add the water in which you dissolved the salt and the oil, then mix first with a fork , then when the liquids are absorbed, start kneading vigorously in the bowl .
Transfer the dough to a lightly oiled work surface and continue working it to obtain a smooth and soft dough . Divide the dough into 10 parts, each weighing about 2.8 oz .
Shape each part into a ball. Place the dough balls on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, spaced well apart , and let them rise in a turned-off oven with the light on or covered with a cloth and a blanket, until they double in size (it will take about 2 hours). Meanwhile, focus on the filling: wash the broccoli and detach the florets from the main stem. Blanch the broccoli in lightly salted boiling water for a few minutes to soften them , then drain them with a slotted spoon .
And immerse them in a bowl with ice water : in this way, as they cool, they will not lose their bright color. Take the mozzarella, cut it into small cubes , and let it drain to remove excess whey.
In a pan, pour the oil and sauté the half garlic clove over low heat, being careful not to burn it. As soon as it is golden, remove it and add the chopped fresh chili pepper and anchovy fillets drained from the preserving oil . Then chop the blanched broccoli florets and add them to the anchovies .
Mix and cook the broccoli and anchovies for about 10 minutes . When the dough balls have doubled in volume , take each one and roll it into a disc about 8 inches in diameter .
Place a generous spoonful of filling in the center . Close the panzerotto, forming a half-moon, and seal the edges well by pressing with your fingers , then the dough around the filling .
Press along the entire edge with your fingers to create the typical wavy decoration of panzerotti , then cut away the excess dough with a fluted pastry cutter to finish it better . Once ready
In a large pot, heat the seed oil (use a kitchen thermometer to ensure the temperature does not exceed 340-355°F) and fry 1-2 panzerotti at a time to avoid lowering the oil temperature too much . Turn them on both sides until they are golden . Drain them on absorbent paper and serve the broccoli and anchovy panzerotti while still hot!
It's possible to freeze the uncooked, already filled panzerotti and then fry them while still frozen if you've used fresh, non-defrosted ingredients.
Once cooked, it's preferable to consume them immediately or within the day, perhaps slightly reheated in the oven.

If you don't like frying, you can also bake them in a static oven at 390°F for 20 minutes, or in a fan oven at 355°F for 15-20 minutes, until they are golden on both sides!

