name:
Mozzarella in carrozza al verde with zucchini and basil pesto
ingredients:
Homemade bread: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (Apulian type)
Mozzarella cheese: 1.5lbs(360 g)- (fiordilatte)
Zucchini: 0.67cup(80 g)
Basil: 0.1oz(3 g)
Almonds: 0.1oz(3 g)
Pine nuts: 1tbsp(10 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.4oz(10 g)- (to grate)
Pecorino cheese: 0.4oz(10 g)- (to grate)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Garlic: ½clove
Basil: 1cup(25 g)
Pine nuts: 0.7tbsp(7 g)
Almonds: 1tsp(3 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.2oz(35 g)- (to grate)
Pecorino cheese: 0.5oz(15 g)- (grated)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Eggs: 3- (medium)
Whole milk: 0.4cup(100 ml)
Black pepper: 1pinch
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Vegetable oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 8 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the green mozzarella in carrozza with zucchini and basil pesto, start by making the Zucchini pesto : wash, trim, and grate the zucchini with a fine grater to make them as fine as possible , then place them in a sieve over a bowl, salt them, and let them drain from excess water for about 1 hour . In a food processor with blades, place almonds, pine nuts, basil, a pinch of salt, garlic, a drizzle of oil , and the grated cheese, blend everything to get a cream.
Then drain the grated zucchini and add them to the mixture in the processor, finish the pesto with a final round of blending until you have a smooth mixture . Transfer it to a bowl and proceed with the Genoese pesto (Pesto alla genovese) : clean the basil leaves with a damp cloth, peel the garlic and place it in the mortar (alternatively, you can use the processor), along with the salt. Start pounding and when the garlic has turned into a cream , add the basil ,
then crush the basil against the walls of the mortar, turning the pestle from left to right and simultaneously rotating the mortar in the opposite direction (right to left); continue like this until a bright green liquid comes out from the basil leaves. At this point, add the pine nuts and almonds and start pounding again to turn it into cream. Add the cheese a little at a time ,
and finally the olive oil in a stream , always stirring with the pestle. Mix the ingredients well until you obtain a homogeneous sauce. Once ready, set the two pestos aside . Slice the loaf ,
using a cookie cutter, cut out 16 circles of 3 inches in diameter avoiding the crust . Slice the mozzarella into slices 0.4 inches thick and set it to drain. Fill half of the bread circles with zucchini pesto ,
place a slice of mozzarella in the center , then fill the remaining bread circles with basil pesto and mozzarella. Once you've finished assembling the mozzarella in carrozza, proceed to breading: beat the eggs with the milk and add salt and pepper,
coat the mozzarella first in flour , making sure it adheres well on all sides, then in eggs , and again in flour .
Before frying them, coat them in the egg one last time : this double breading will prevent water loss during cooking. Heat the seed oil in a pan, monitor the temperature with a thermometer, and when the oil reaches 350°F-360°F, immerse the mozzarella in carrozza. Cook them on both sides until golden, drain them with a slotted spoon, and let them dry on a tray lined with paper towels (23-24). Enjoy the green mozzarella in carrozza with zucchini and basil pesto hot!
It's recommended to consume the green mozzarella in carrozza hot and fresh.
Want to add even more taste to your mozzarella in carrozza? Just add a slice of cooked ham along with the mozzarella and... you're done!

