name:
Fake cauliflower pizza
ingredients:
Cauliflower: 3cups(300 g)- (already cleaned)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(70 g)
Eggs: 2
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Tomato purée: ¾cup(180 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 4.5oz(125 g)- cut into sticks
Taggiasca olives: 1spoonful
Garlic: 1clove- poached
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Makes: 1 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for the fake pizza (5 min.)

instructions:
To prepare fake cauliflower pizza, first remove the leaves and core of the cauliflower, then roughly chop the florets . Transfer them to a food processor and blend until you get a couscous-like graininess; pour everything into a bowl .
Add the oil , salt , pepper, and eggs .
Combine the ingredients , then add the flour and mix again .
Crumple the parchment paper and line a 12-inch diameter pan . Pour the mixture into the pan and level it with a spatula until you achieve an even thickness . Bake in a static oven, in direct contact with the bottom of the oven, at 392°F for 10 minutes. Then move the pan to the middle shelf and continue cooking for another 30 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the topping: in a pan, pour the oil, add the whole garlic clove and sauté for a few minutes. Add the tomato sauce , a little water, and season with salt . Stir, then cover with a lid and cook over low heat for 20-25 minutes.
Remove the pizza base from the oven and slide it, along with the parchment paper, onto a baking tray ; this way it won't tend to soften due to moisture. Spread the sauce and the mozzarella sticks over the surface.
Add the olives , basil , and a grind of pepper. Bake for another 5 minutes, if needed extend cooking in grill mode for another 2 minutes. Once out of the oven, let it rest for a few minutes. Your fake cauliflower pizza is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the fake cauliflower pizza immediately; if necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. To enjoy it at its best, it is recommended to reheat it in the oven or on the stove to restore its crispiness.
Fake cauliflower pizza is a versatile base that lends itself to many different toppings: try it, for example, with four cheeses, or with pesto, grilled zucchini, and pine nuts, or even with a cream of spreadable cheeses, smoked salmon, and arugula!

