name:
Pumpkin risotto with robiola cheese and crispy bacon
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Pumpkin: ¾cup(180 g)- (pulp)
Shallot: 1
Sage: 3leaves
Rosemary: 1sprig
White wine: 3.4oz(100 ml)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Robiola cheese: 5.25oz(150 g)
Pancetta tesa: 4slices

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pumpkin risotto with robiola and crispy bacon, start by making the Vegetable broth In a large pot, bring water to a boil; meanwhile, wash all the vegetables thoroughly. Peel an onion and chop it into pieces , then peel a carrot, removing the ends, and roughly chop it along with the celery. Add all the vegetables , season with salt, and when the water reaches a boil, cover with a lid. Cook for about half an hour and, once done, strain the broth using a sieve.
Meanwhile, finely chop the shallot , sage, and rosemary and set aside. Now proceed to clean the pumpkin: with a knife, cut it in half and then into slices, then clean the inside, removing the seeds and fibers .
After removing the peel , cut the flesh into cubes about 3/4 inch (2 cm) and place the pumpkin cubes in a blender .
Chop the pumpkin until very fine and then prepare the sauté; in a large non-stick pot, sauté the finely chopped shallot with a drizzle of oil , add the aromatic herbs you prepared, and cook on very low heat for 15 minutes, adding a little broth .
When the shallot is well browned, add the chopped pumpkin ; season with salt to taste and add the rice , stirring well with a wooden spoon for a few minutes to prevent it from sticking to the pan. Toast the rice and deglaze with white wine .
Let it cook for at least 20 minutes, and during cooking, add 1-2 ladles of vegetable broth each time the previous one has been absorbed . A few minutes before the risotto is done cooking, prepare the seasoning: cut the robiola into cubes and set aside, then take the bacon, cut it into thin strips and then into squares ; sauté it over medium heat in a non-stick pan until crispy and golden .
When the risotto is ready, turn off the heat and cream by adding the cubed robiola ; mix well and finish by adding the crispy bacon . Let it rest for two minutes and serve the pumpkin risotto with robiola and crispy bacon hot .
Store the pumpkin risotto with robiola and crispy bacon in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
Enrich this appetizing dish by adding a slice of pancetta for each guest on the risotto: you'll add even more flavor and color!

