name:
Heart of rump in crust with lard and porcini mushrooms
ingredients:
Butter: 2.6oz(75 g)- (cold from the refrigerator)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Water: 9tsp(45 ml)- (chilled)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: 1pinch
Rosemary: 1sprig
Beef: 1.875lbs(850 g)- rump
Porcini mushrooms: 7cups(500 g)
Colonnata lard: 7oz(200 g)- (sliced)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Parsley: 1tuft
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: High
Note + the resting time of the shortcrust pastry (30 minutes)

instructions:
To prepare the heart of rump in crust with lard and porcini mushrooms, start with the Easy Shortcrust Pastry . Put the sifted flour and cold butter pieces from the fridge into a food processor with blades . Clean the rosemary and add the leaves . Start the blades and blend everything until you get a sandy, floury mixture .
Place the mixture in a bowl, seasoning with salt and pepper. Add the ice-cold water gradually and knead all the ingredients quickly with your hands to obtain a compact and smooth dough ; then form a dough ball, flatten it slightly, and let it rest for at least 30 minutes in the refrigerator wrapped in cling film .
In the meantime, proceed to the How to Clean Porcini Mushrooms : with a sharp knife with a smooth blade, start removing the earthy part on the stem, scraping it gently to eliminate any trace of soil . If the mushrooms are quite clean, remove the few soil residues with a brush or a damp cotton cloth (if they are still very dirty, quickly rinse them under a stream of cold running water). Once cleaned, cut the whole mushrooms lengthwise and set them aside .
Next, prepare the sauté: cut the chili, remove the stalk and internal seeds, then slice it thinly ; peel the garlic clove, cut it in half, and remove the core. In a non-stick pan, sauté the oil, garlic, and chili together with some parsley leaves . Add the mushrooms , salt and pepper to taste, then cook on high heat for 10 minutes.
Once the necessary time has elapsed, turn off the heat, place the mushrooms in a rather tall glass , and blend them with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream . Set aside the porcini mushroom cream you obtained and proceed to cook the meat: in a pan with hot oil, sear the rump well for 3 minutes on each side, turning it gently with tongs on all sides .
When the rump has taken on color, turn off the heat and place it on a rack with a dish underneath to collect the excess oil. With a knife, gently spread the rump with the mushroom cream evenly on all sides , except the underside; remember to keep some of the porcini mushroom cream aside as it will be used as an additional garnish. After the necessary time, remove the shortcrust pastry from the refrigerator, place it on a slightly floured work surface, and roll it out with a rolling pin into a sheet 1-2 mm thick and of the necessary dimensions to cover the rump. At this point, you can proceed with the composition of the rump in crust: start by placing the lard slices in the center of the sheet one beside the other vertically, to cover the length of the rump ;
then overlap other slices to cover well the entire perimeter that will wrap the meat and then spread the remaining porcini cream on the central part. Place the meat on it and start wrapping it with the lard slices, folding them gently until the whole surface is well covered . With your hands, wrap the shortcrust dough gently around the rump, trying to make it adhere as much as possible .
With a wheel or a knife, cut the excess pastry edges, which you will save for the final decorations , finally close the side parts well. Place the rump on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and brush the roll with a beaten egg to ensure the decorations adhere well . Then prepare the decorations by rolling out the leftover shortcrust pastry with a rolling pin and cutting out leaves with a cookie cutter ;
Complete by placing all the leaves on the crust surface and brush them with the egg. Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 30 minutes (or in a fan oven at 320°F for 20 minutes). Once ready and well golden , serve the rump in crust with lard and porcini hot .
Store the heart of rump in crust with lard and porcini in an airtight container in the refrigerator for a maximum of 2-3 days. You can freeze it only if you used fresh ingredients.
If you want to customize your heart of rump in crust with lard and porcini, all you have to do is choose the decoration you like best. I recommend trying a braid or diamond pattern: you are sure to impress your guests! Also, to make your dish even more delicious, you can enrich the porcini mushroom cream with foie gras pâté or veal pâté: just add 1.76 oz when blending the mushrooms.

