name:
Sea bass fillet with orange on fennel salad
ingredients:
Sea bass (sea bass): 3.5lbs(1.6 kg)- (4 of 0.88 lbs each)
Orange juice: 0.8cup(200 ml)
Pine nuts: 1.5oz(40 g)
Raisins: 2.5oz(70 g)
Dill: 4sprigs
Breadcrumbs: ¼cup(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: 1pinch
Water: 2spoonfuls- (hot)
Fresh garlic: 1clove
Orange peel: 1
Fennel: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Lemon juice: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 2 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the marination time

instructions:
To prepare the sea bass fillet with orange on fennel salad, start with the How to clean the sea bream : remove the scales with the appropriate tool or the sharp blade of a knife (perform this operation in the sink or place the fish in a food bag so the scales don't fly everywhere). Then gut the sea bass by making a cut under the belly and removing the innards ; then wash the sea bass well under running water, dry it, cut off the head and tail, the side fins, and cut it in half. Fillet it, separating the meat from the skin, keeping the knife close to the central bone: from each sea bass, you will get two fillets .
Divide them further in half , run your hand over the fillets to check for any bones; if present, you can remove them with kitchen tweezers . Set the obtained fillets aside and proceed to prepare the marinade: grate the zest of 1 orange and set it aside, then cut the oranges in half
and squeeze the juice , then filter it . Finely chop the dill fronds
Pour the filtered orange juice into a large baking dish, add the raisins (previously washed and dried), the pine nuts, and the dill fronds ; salt and pepper to taste, then place the sea bass fillets , making sure they all get well moistened. Cover with cling film and refrigerate for at least 2 hours.
After two hours, drain the fillets from the marinade and place them on a cutting board; gather the latter in a bowl and add the breadcrumbs , at this point you can also add the grated orange zest if you prefer. Mix to combine with the other ingredients. Then distribute the filling on the fillets and roll them over themselves .
Secure each sea bass fillet with a toothpick . Once you have used up the ingredients, pour the oil into a pan, fry a whole or halved garlic clove (so you can remove it later), then add the sea bass fillets and sear them over medium heat for a moment, turning them; then add the hot water : cook the sea bass a couple of minutes, turning them from time to time , just long enough to color the meat.
Meanwhile, clean and wash the fennel, cut the core into julienne strips and prepare the citronette to dress it: in a small bowl, pour the oil, the juice of 1 lemon, the thyme, the salt, and a pinch of pepper . Emulsify everything with a whisk and dress the fennel salad. On a serving platter, pour the fennel and place the sea bass fillets : you can decorate as you like with some dill fronds or orange slices if you prefer!
You can store the sea bass fillets with orange on fennel salad in the refrigerator for 1 day, covered with cling film.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can also make this fresh and aromatic main course with other types of fish, such as sea bream.

