name:
Hasselback potatoes
ingredients:
Potatoes: 3.3lbs(1.5 kg)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1 ½cup(150 g)- to grate
Rosemary: 1sprig
Thyme: 4sprigs
Oregano: 4sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare Hasselback potatoes, start by thoroughly washing the potatoes under running water . After drying them, insert a skewer into each potato 1cm from the base . Use a knife to cut thin slices into the potatoes ; this method will help you make precise and regular cuts without slicing all the way through.
Once sliced, wash the potatoes again to remove the starch and let them drain in a colander . Set the potatoes aside and prepare the herb filling. Start by finely chopping rosemary, thyme, oregano, and a clove of garlic with a knife .
Salt and pepper to taste; finally, mix the aromatic herbs with a teaspoon .
In a bowl, combine the aromatic herbs with the grated cheese . Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 400°F. While the oven is heating, remove the skewers and start filling the inside of the potato slices with the herb and cheese filling ; you can optionally add any leftover mixture on top of the potatoes.
After filling the potatoes, place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and drizzle with a little oil ; drizzle some oil on the potatoes as well and bake in a static oven at 400°F for about 75 minutes (350°F for 65 minutes if using a fan oven) . Once cooked, take the potatoes out of the oven and let them cool slightly, then serve them.
It is recommended to consume Hasselback potatoes hot and fresh. If you want, you can prepare and bake the potatoes the day before serving them, then reheat them right before bringing them to the table.
Let your imagination run wild! Stuff your Hasselback potatoes with the cheese and aromatic herbs you prefer, or insert tasty cheese slices between the individual potato slices.

