name:
Lemon mousse with almond biscuit
ingredients:
Lemon juice: ¼cup(60 ml)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.35oz(10 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¾cup(400 ml)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Egg whites: 0.67cup(150 g)- (about 4 medium eggs)
Almond flour: ¾cup(80 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Egg whites: 2
Vanilla bean: 1
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time in the fridge (at least 2 h)

instructions:
To prepare the lemon mousse with almond biscuit, start by preparing the Italian meringue by placing a saucepan with a thick bottom over the heat. Pour the lemon juice , 150 g of sugar and melt over low heat until the sugar has completely dissolved; the syrup should not exceed 250°F, you can measure it with a kitchen thermometer .
When it reaches a temperature of 241°F, start working the egg whites with a stand mixer (or an electric mixer) at medium speed. Beat them until they turn white and add the remaining sugar . When the syrup reaches 250°F and concurrently the egg whites are well whipped, pour the syrup slowly over the egg whites, continuing to beat them at medium speed ; keep the mixer running until the mixture becomes completely cold. Once ready, you will obtain an Italian meringue with a white and frothy consistency. Set the meringue aside, and in the meantime, soak the gelatin sheets in a bowl with cold water for at least 10 minutes .
Heat 50 ml of cream in a small saucepan, and when it is hot, add the well-squeezed gelatin sheets . Stir with a whisk to completely dissolve the gelatin . Then turn off the heat and let it cool. Separately, whip the remaining cream .
Add it to the meringue, mixing delicately from top to bottom to avoid deflating it . Then incorporate into the meringue the cream in which you have dissolved the gelatin, now cooled , and gently mix everything together . Let it rest in the refrigerator for 2 hours.
Prepare the almond biscuit: start by melting the butter; place the almond flour in a large bowl, add the melted and cooled butter and mix with a spatula until the butter is completely absorbed . Now take the vanilla bean, cut it lengthwise and extract the internal seeds with a knife .
Add the vanilla seeds ; then sift the flour directly into the bowl . Mix well and set aside. Now place the egg whites in a bowl and beat them with an electric mixer .
As soon as they start to whip, add the sugar and continue until you obtain a swollen and frothy mixture . Then add the whipped egg whites to the flour and butter mixture . Mix with a spatula from top to bottom to combine the ingredients,
until you obtain a homogeneous dough . Line a baking tray with parchment paper and place small amounts of dough with the back of a spoon, about 10 g, 1-2 inches apart (to make it easier, wet the spoon so the dough doesn't stick too much to the surface). Flatten the small amount of dough , forming circles about 2.75 inches in diameter and half a millimeter thick .
Once this operation is completed, bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F for 8 minutes (320°F for 3-4 minutes if using a fan oven). When the biscuits are slightly crunchy and browned , take them out of the oven and place them still warm on a rolling pin , in this way they will acquire a curved shape as they dry .
After two hours, remove the lemon mousse from the fridge and pour it into a piping bag with a round nozzle. Fill the cups to the brim. Serve the mousse accompanied by the almond biscuits !
Store the lemon mousse in the fridge for 1-2 days covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended as the mousse may lose its initial texture. Store the almond biscuits in a tin box for up to 1 week.

