name:
Tagliatelle with bottarga, clams, and lemon
ingredients:
Egg Tagliatelle pasta: 11.25oz(320 g)
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Bottarga: 1.4oz(40 g)
Lemon juice: 1 ⅓tbsp(20 ml)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1tuft
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the tagliatelle with bottarga, clams, and lemon, start by cleaning the clams: check that they do not contain sand by tapping each one on a cutting board on the opening side . If dark sand comes out, it means the clam is full of sand and should be discarded. Also discard any with broken shells. Then place the clams in a colander set over a bowl and rinse them several times under running water: finish when no sand is visible in the bowl. Pour a drizzle of oil into a large pot
and a peeled garlic clove and let it sauté for a few moments. Drain the clams well and pour them into the pan , cover with the lid and turn up the heat: in this way, the shells will open with the heat. You must turn off the heat immediately after they have fully opened to avoid compromising the tenderness of the seafood with prolonged cooking.
Drain the clams and save the cooking liquid that has been produced. Shell half of them (you may also choose to skip this step) and place them with the cooking liquid in a large pan. Add the lemon juice .
Bring plenty of water to a boil, salt to taste, and cook the tagliatelle for a few minutes, following the instructions on the package . Meanwhile, chop the parsley and grate the bottarga .
Drain the tagliatelle into the pan with the sauce, season with pepper to taste , then add the bottarga and the parsley. Mix well and serve the tagliatelle with bottarga, clams, and lemon piping hot !
It is recommended to consume the tagliatelle with bottarga, clams, and lemon immediately; they can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for 1 day.
If you do not consume the clams right away, you can clean them and then place them in a bowl full of cold water to store for about 12 hours.

