name:
Upside-down pineapple cupcakes
ingredients:
Pineapple: 2.9lbs(1.3 kg)- (whole)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(270 g)
Butter: 8 ½tbsp(120 g)
Sugar: 0.625cup(125 g)
Milk: ½cup(125 ml)
Fine salt: to taste
Eggs: 2- (medium)
Baking powder: 1 ¾tsp(8 g)
Brown sugar: 0.8cup(175 g)
Water: 2.5oz(75 ml)
Butter: ½tbsp(10 g)
Cherries in syrup: 12

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the upside-down pineapple cupcakes, start with the caramel. In a saucepan, pour the water and brown sugar , dissolve the sugar over low heat, then add the butter and swirl the saucepan without stirring. When the butter is melted, turn off the heat and let it cool. The presence of butter will prevent the caramel from hardening.
Meanwhile, clean the pineapple: remove the crown by twisting and pulling it off or cutting it off with a knife. Then remove the base by making a cut of about 1-1.5 inches. Place the pineapple vertically on a cutting board. Then cut the skin off laterally with a knife . Slice the flesh into 12 slices about 3/4 inch thick , then use a small cookie cutter with a diameter of 1 inch to cut out the tougher central part .
Trim the edges with another cookie cutter with a diameter of about 2 inches , place the pineapple rings in a large bowl and blend the remaining flesh in a food processor (8-9), set aside, it will be used later for the accompanying sauce.
When the caramel is cool, pour it into the bowl with the pineapple slices , butter and sprinkle a 12-cupcake pan with brown sugar , then place a slice of pineapple at the bottom of each mold and pour the caramel into the center of the slice .
Meanwhile, prepare the cupcake batter: in a bowl, cream the butter and sugar with an electric mixer , then add the lemon zest and eggs , continue to mix and gradually add the milk .
Finally, incorporate the sifted flour and baking powder , mix with a spatula to combine the mixture , transfer the batter into a piping bag without a nozzle and fill the cupcake molds . Bake the cupcakes in a static oven at 350°F for 20 minutes (or in a fan oven at 320°F for about 15 minutes).
Meanwhile, prepare the accompanying sauce: in a saucepan, pour the blended pineapple pulp and the leftover caramel , cook the sauce for about 20 minutes over moderate heat, then turn off the heat and blend it with an immersion blender to make it smoother.
Once baking is complete, remove the cupcakes from the oven , let them cool slightly (they should not cool completely, or the caramel will set and you won't be able to unmold them) and then invert them onto a serving platter . Place the cupcakes on a serving plate and garnish the center with a maraschino cherry .
Store the upside-down pineapple cupcakes under a glass dome for a couple of days.
Do not stir the caramel to avoid incorporating air and consequently lowering the temperature of the syrup, making it grainy.

