name:
Apple pie crepe
ingredients:
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Eggs: 3- (medium)
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Orange peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Royal Gala apples: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Raisins: 0.67cup(100 g)
Pine nuts: 7tbsp(60 g)
Brown sugar: ½cup(120 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Orange juice: 1
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.42cup(100 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + resting the batter in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare apple pie crepes, start with the crepe batter. Pour the sifted flour into a bowl, add the milk , and mix. Then, add the sugar and a pinch of salt. Work the mixture with a hand whisk until smooth and lump-free. In a separate bowl, beat the eggs
and add them to the batter . Also, add the zest of an orange by grating it directly into the bowl and continue to mix, then add the melted butter ,
then cover the batter with plastic wrap and let it rest for at least half an hour in the fridge. Meanwhile, squeeze the orange juice and strain it. Then, rinse the raisins and soak them in warm water to rehydrate ,
then add the orange juice . Proceed to prepare the apples: remove the core with a corer , then peel them
and cut them in half , then slice them thinly, about a quarter inch thick ; as you slice them, you can place them in a bowl of cold water and lemon to prevent browning, and then drain them well before cooking. In a large pan, melt the butter, add the brown sugar , and stir briefly with a spatula.
and stir briefly with a spatula. Then add the apple slices , stir and caramelize them, sprinkle with cinnamon . Cook for a few moments, then drain the raisins reserving the soaking liquid and add them to the apples . Also, pour in 2 tablespoons of the liquid in which you soaked the raisins and cook over medium heat
until creating a sauce: the apples should be soft but not disintegrated . Then, proceed with the dark chocolate ganache: coarsely chop the chocolate , and add it to the cream previously poured into a saucepan .
Turn on the low heat and stir until the chocolate has melted ; for more information on the procedure, you can consult the Ganache cream recipe. Set the sauce aside while you start preparing the crepes: take the batter out of the fridge and stir. Heat a crepe pan or a non-stick pan 12 inches in diameter (you can lightly grease it with butter or a little oil). Pour a ladle of batter and spread it over the entire surface by rotating the pan
Cook the crepe for about a minute, then gently detach it with a spatula or a wooden spatula to turn the crepe to the other side and cook for another minute. Continue in the same way until the batter is finished. Once the crepes are ready, you can fill them: place some filling on one half of each crepe, also add a teaspoon of pine nuts , and close it into a half-moon shape .
Further fold each crepe into a triangle and once ready , decorate it with the chocolate ganache before serving . Your apple pie crepes are ready to be enjoyed!
Store the prepared crepes without filling in the refrigerator in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap for 1-2 days. The chocolate ganache can be stored covered with plastic wrap for one day. Freezing is not recommended.
Want to make the apple pie crepes even more irresistible? You can serve them with some English Cream or with a scoop of Custard Ice Cream ! You can also use golden apples, with their characteristic yellow skin.

