name:
Strozzapreti with mushrooms and gorgonzola
ingredients:
Strozzapreti pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Honey mushrooms: 0.7lb(300 g)- (fresh)
Gorgonzola cheese: 2 ½cups(300 g)- spicy
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.4tbsp(35 ml)- extra virgin
Whole milk: 2oz(60 ml)
Thyme: 1sprig
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make strozzapreti with mushrooms and gorgonzola, remove the stems from the honey mushrooms, then clean the mushrooms by rinsing them under running water to remove the dirt. Boil the cleaned mushrooms for about 15-20 minutes in plenty of water. Then in a pan, sauté the mushrooms in extra virgin olive oil for 3-4 minutes over high heat, seasoning with a little salt and pepper (1-2). Take the cheese and cut it into small cubes ,
place 8.8 oz of gorgonzola in a pan and add the milk , melt the cheese over moderate heat, stirring with a whisk until a smooth cream is obtained, then turn off the heat and set aside .
Cook the strozzapreti in plenty of salted water to taste, for the time indicated on the package . When the pasta is al dente, drain it with a slotted spoon and pour it directly into the pan with the mushrooms ,
incorporate the gorgonzola cream and stir with a spoon to flavor, heating over low heat. When the ingredients are combined, turn off the heat and garnish with the remaining gorgonzola cubes and scent the dish with fresh thyme leaves. Your strozzapreti with mushrooms and gorgonzola are ready, enjoy them hot !
It is recommended to consume the strozzapreti with mushrooms and gorgonzola immediately; if there are leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
Be careful not to over-salt the preparation; the gorgonzola cream will provide enough salinity to the dish. If you don't like thyme, you can flavor the pasta with freshly chopped parsley. Alternatively, you can also use chanterelles instead of honey mushrooms.
For correct selection, treatment, and storage of mushrooms, we refer to the guidelines from the Ministry of Health .

