name:
Apple and Walnut Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Golden delicious apples: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (about 3)
Walnut kernels: 0.7cup(80 g)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)
Eggs: 3
Baking powder: 4tsp(16 g)
Lemons: 1- (juice and zest)
Salt: 1pinch
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the apple and walnut cake, first peel the apples and remove the core . Slice one and a half apples and dice the rest .
Place the apples in 2 separate bowls, squeeze half a lemon over each , and mix to prevent oxidation. Set aside. Now, start preparing the batter: melt the butter in a small saucepan and let it cool. Meanwhile, place the eggs and sugar in a bowl .
Beat with an electric mixer for 5-7 minutes until the mixture is light, frothy, and tripled in volume. Sift the flour and baking powder into the bowl.
Gently fold in the dry ingredients with an upward movement . Add the melted butter and incorporate. Gradually pour in the milk and mix gently.
Add the diced apples , some of the roughly chopped walnuts , lemon zest , and a pinch of salt. Combine everything.
Pour the mixture into a 9-inch springform pan, lined with parchment paper, greased and floured . Level the surface and decorate with apple slices arranged in a radial pattern , making sure to fill the center as well. Finally, sprinkle with the remaining walnuts .
Bake in a static oven at 355°F for 55 minutes , checking the doneness with a toothpick. Remove from the oven and let cool, then finish with a dusting of powdered sugar . The apple and walnut cake is ready to be served !
The apple and walnut cake can be stored at room temperature, under a glass dome or covered with plastic wrap, for 2-3 days. Alternatively, you can store it in the refrigerator for 4-5 days, making sure to bring it back to room temperature before serving.
For an even more indulgent version, you can add chocolate chips to the batter!

