name:
Sweet focaccia with peaches and apricots
ingredients:
Water: 1.67cups(400 ml)
Manitoba flour: 4.8cups(600 g)
Honey: 1 ½tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.7tbsp(40 ml)
Fine salt: 1.4tsp(8 g)
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(2.5 g)
Apricots: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Nectarines: 4.2oz(120 g)
Sugar: 5tbsp(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note plus the rising time

instructions:
To make the sweet focaccia with apricots, place the water in a jug, add the salt , honey , and extra virgin olive oil .
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, sift the flour (you can use Manitoba flour or all-purpose flour) and add the dry yeast . Turn on the machine and add the liquids
when the ingredients are combined, remove the paddle and attach the dough hook , then knead for about 10-15 minutes. Remove the dough from the mixing bowl; it will be quite soft. Oil the work surface , transfer the dough onto the table
shape the dough into a ball and then place it in a bowl covered with plastic wrap and let it rise for about 2 hours in the oven turned off with the light on. Meanwhile, wash the fruit, cut the apricots into 0.6-inch thick slices, removing the pits
do the same with the peaches . Grease a baking tray measuring 16 x 12 inches with oil . When the dough has risen, spread it in the tray by pressing it gently with your hands. Create dimples on the surface of the dough with your fingertips
sprinkle the focaccia with oil and granulated sugar . Spread the fruit slices over the surface and then let it rise for half an hour, covering it with plastic wrap. At the end of the rising, bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for about 20 minutes (or in a fan oven at 340°F for 10-15 minutes) until the focaccia is golden brown. Once done, remove the sweet focaccia with apricots from the oven and let it cool before serving.
It is recommended to store the focaccia in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. It can be frozen after baking.
You can replace peaches and apricots with other fruits like plums, figs, or apples. When peaches and apricots are out of season, you can use canned or preserved ones (in this case, choose medium-sweet alcoholic drinks like moscato or passito) and replace part of the water with the preserving liquid, making sure to reduce the sugar if using syrup.

