name:
Swordfish rolls with lime and ginger
ingredients:
Swordfish: 1.85lbs(840 g)- (in slices)
Lime juice: 1.2oz(35 ml)
Fresh ginger: 2tsp(10 g)
Pine nuts: 3tbsp(30 g)
Bread: 4oz(115 g)- (crumb)
Raisins: 1oz(30 g)
Bay leaves: 15leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the 'beccafico' rolls with lime and ginger, start by washing the raisins and soaking them in 1 fl oz of lime juice for at least 10 minutes. After the necessary time, you can drain them, reserving the soaking liquid for the recipe . In the meantime, remove the crust from the bread slices
place the crumbs in a blender and finely chop them , then pour them into a bowl and add the previously drained raisins .
Add the pine nuts and grate the fresh ginger , salt and pepper to taste, then mix all the ingredients
Take back the soaking liquid, add 0.68 fl oz of olive oil and mix it with the filling . Take the swordfish slices; you can ask for slices approximately 4-5 mm thick at the fish market, or you can cut them yourself from a single fillet using a filleting knife or alternatively use a slicer. Then remove the skin from the swordfish slices
Slightly salt each slice, place one or two teaspoons of filling and roll them up then secure each roll with a toothpick. Drizzle a baking dish with 0.34 fl oz of oil (it should be large enough to hold the rolls close together)
arrange the rolls close together with the opening side down . Sprinkle the surface with the leftover filling , then place bay leaves between each roll as if they were little wings .
Once finished , drizzle with 0.34 fl oz of lime juice and bake the rolls in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 10 minutes. Once cooked, take out the swordfish 'beccafico' rolls with lime and ginger, let them cool slightly and enjoy them as a delicious main course !
You can store the swordfish 'beccafico' rolls with lime and ginger in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 1-2 days.
You can freeze them if you have used fresh, non-defrosted ingredients.

