name:
Pavlova with yogurt, raspberries and chocolate
ingredients:
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)- extra fine
Egg whites: ¾cup(180 g)
Apple cider vinegar: 1spoonful
Cornstarch: 1tbsp(15 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Cream of tartar: ½tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Greek yogurt: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Raspberries: 1 ¼cup(125 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.375oz(12 g)
Lemon peel: 1- (non trattata)
Raspberries: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
White chocolate: 1.8oz(50 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 2 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pavlova with yogurt, raspberries, and chocolate, start with the meringue: mix the sugar with the sifted cornstarch . Then, in the bowl of a stand mixer, pour in the egg whites at room temperature , start whisking, and as soon as they turn white, add a pinch of salt and the cream of tartar .
Then add the vanilla extract and the sugar mixed with cornstarch, one tablespoon at a time . Also, add the apple cider vinegar (or white wine vinegar, in which case, use only a teaspoon).
When the meringue becomes frothy, firm, and shiny , stop the mixer. Lightly butter and line a baking sheet with parchment paper (buttering the pan first will keep the parchment paper in place) and gently transfer the meringue to form a 9-inch diameter nest, creating a hollow in the center to hold the yogurt cream. You can make decorative swirls all around to create curls that will become a lovely decorative pattern after baking. Preheat the static oven to 482°F, but when you place the pavlova inside, lower it to 176°F and bake for 2 hours. Once done, turn off the oven and leave it slightly open until completely cooled.
When it is baked, it will have a slightly browned appearance on the surface . While the pavlova bakes and cools, soak the gelatin sheets in a bowl with cold water for at least 10 minutes . In a pan, pour in the raspberries and sugar .
Turn on the heat and cook them until they turn into a puree and the juice is reduced by half: strain the mixture through a fine-mesh sieve , then carefully squeeze the gelatin sheets and completely dissolve them in the still warm raspberry coulis , stirring with a teaspoon.
While the coulis cools, pour the Greek yogurt into a small bowl , add the grated zest of an untreated lemon , and mix. When the coulis is cool, combine it with the yogurt cream and blend the two mixtures, then cover with plastic wrap in contact and let the cream set for at least 1 hour in the refrigerator.
Then pour the now thickened cream inside the pavlova ; then make decorative curls from the white and dark chocolate (20-21): to facilitate the operation, you can slightly heat the chocolate in the microwave.
Complete the composition of the pavlova with fresh raspberries and the curls of white and dark chocolate evenly distributed. Serve the pavlova with yogurt, raspberries, and chocolate as a refined dessert .
Store the pavlova with yogurt, raspberries, and chocolate in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended to avoid altering the meringue's consistency.
To achieve a perfectly textured meringue, it's important that the egg whites are at room temperature. As for the yogurt cream, you can replace the raspberries with blackberries, currants, strawberries, or any red fruits you prefer!

