name:
Tortillas with spiced pork and yogurt guacamole
ingredients:
Tortillas: 8
Pork loin: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (sliced)
Carrots: 3
Zucchini: 2
Cumin: ½tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Fresh scallion: 1
Black pepper: to taste
Paprika: 1tsp
Worcestershire sauce: 1spoonful
Fine salt: to taste
Greek yogurt 0% fat: ½cup(100 g)
Avocado: 1- ripe
Cluster tomatoes: ½cup(100 g)
White onions: ½
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Lime juice: 1
Green spicy Peperoncino: ½

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the sauce

instructions:
To prepare the tortillas with spiced pork and yogurt guacamole, start by marinating the meat: cut the pork slices into strips then place them in a bowl and add salt , pepper, Worcestershire sauce ,
paprika, cumin , and a drizzle of oil. Mix and let it marinate; in the meantime, prepare the yogurt guacamole: open the avocado and cut the flesh into cubes , place 3/4 of it in a bowl , while you can set aside the other portion to add whole to the sauce.
Peel the onion and slice it thinly then chop it finely; also chop the green chili , garlic, and cut the cherry tomatoes into wedges. Mash the avocado flesh in the bowl with a fork until it becomes a creamy puree.
add the chopped onion and garlic , green chili , and tomatoes . Mix the ingredients thoroughly,
then also add the Greek yogurt . Squeeze the lime juice , strain it, and add it to the guacamole sauce , also add the avocado cubes you set aside and, if necessary, drizzle a bit more olive oil. Mix and keep the sauce in the refrigerator.
Clean and thinly slice the scallion , trim, peel, and cut the carrots into thin strips , then wash and trim the zucchini, also to be cut into strips .
In a skillet, pour half the oil and add the scallion and carrots; stir with a wooden spoon and sauté the vegetables for 2-3 minutes, then add the zucchini and continue cooking for another 5 minutes, salt and pepper to taste: the vegetables should be flavorful but remain crispy. In a separate skillet, pour the remaining oil and cook the marinated meat for 10 minutes. Heat the tortillas, about 1 and a half minutes per side, in a crepe pan or a well-heated non-stick pan .
Fill each tortilla with the meat and vegetables placed in the center and fold the edges inward . Wrap the tortillas with spiced pork in aluminum foil or colorful napkins and serve them with the yogurt guacamole sauce!
We recommend consuming the tortillas with spiced pork and yogurt guacamole immediately. The meat and vegetables can be stored in the fridge for 1-2 days. The guacamole sauce can be stored in the refrigerator covered with cling film for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
To fill the tortillas, you can also use chicken breast or beef.

