name:
Chickpea Velouté with Sautéed Mussels and Clams
ingredients:
Dried chickpeas: 2 ¼cups(450 g)
Leeks: 1
Carrots: 1
Thyme: 3sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Water: 6 ¼glasses(1.5 l)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Celery: ¼cup(60 g)
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Tomatoes: 1.1cups(200 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1tuft- (chopped)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + soaking time for dried chickpeas

instructions:
To prepare the chickpea velouté, you must ensure to soak the dried chickpeas for at least 12 hours (you can do this the night before). Then prepare the other vegetables: trim and peel the carrot , prepare the celery, leek, and thyme. Slice all the vegetables and pick the leaves from the thyme sprigs.
Drain the chickpeas from the soaking water. Then, pour water into the steam blender up to its maximum capacity, and into the blender jug pour the chickpeas , leek, carrots, and celery .
Salt and pepper to taste, pour the olive oil and close the blender jug with the lid to blend all the vegetables . Set the cooking for half an hour, adding water until reaching 1.5 quarts. Once cooked and blended, your chickpea velouté is ready; you can keep it warm until it's time to use it .
To prepare the mussel and clam sauté, start by purging the clams: remove those with broken shells and tap each one on a cutting board from the opening side . If dark sand comes out, it means the clam is full of sand and should be discarded. Then place the clams in a colander set over a bowl and rinse them multiple times under running water : finish when no more sand is visible in the bowl. Wash the mussels as well, remove the beard, the thread protruding from the shell , and scrape the shell with a scouring pad to remove impurities.
Cut the cherry tomatoes into wedges and set them aside ; then pour the mussels and clams into a wide pan with rather high edges.
Cover with a lid and let them open : it will take just a few minutes. As soon as the mussels and clams open, drain and keep them warm ; also reserve the liquid the mollusks released upon opening in a small bowl. In a large pan, pour the oil, crushed garlic, and cherry tomatoes .
Cook the cherry tomatoes for a few minutes, stirring. Then pour in the cooking liquid from the mollusks and let it cook for about 5 minutes to reduce. Next, add the mussels and clams , cook for another 2-3 minutes, turn off the heat, and season with chopped parsley .
To accompany the dish, you can toast slices of rustic bread in the oven: drizzle the bread slices with oil, place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, and heat them on both sides in a preheated static oven at 430°F for about 10 minutes (if using a fan oven, at 355°F for 5 minutes) (13-14). Now that all the ingredients are ready, pour the chickpea velouté into serving bowls and top with the mussel and clam sauté, some shelled, others whole . Serve the chickpea velouté with sautéed mussels and clams with the bread croutons!
It is advisable to consume the chickpea velouté with sautéed mussels and clams as soon as it is ready. Mussels and clams can be stored raw once cleaned in a bowl with cold water for about 12 hours or wrapped in a damp cloth. The chickpea velouté can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for 1-2 days. It can be frozen if you have used fresh, non-defrosted ingredients.

