name:
Nutella Braid
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 0.6cup(75 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(175 g)
Brewer's yeast: ¼tsp(1 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Whole milk: 0.625cup(150 g)- at room temperature
Butter: 1.8tbsp(25 g)- at room temperature
Fine salt: 1pinch
Nutella: 0.7cup(200 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: ¼cup(30 g)
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note plus the rising time (about 3 hours)

instructions:
To make the Nutella braid, sift the flours into the bowl of a stand mixer , add the dry yeast and sugar and salt.
Turn on the mixer fitted with the paddle attachment and slowly pour in the milk at room temperature . Once a uniform mixture is obtained, switch the paddle for the dough hook and continue working the dough, adding the softened butter a little at a time . Wait another 15 minutes until the dough is well incorporated around the hook.
Transfer the dough to a lightly greased work surface, knead it with your hands , and once you have formed it into a sphere , place it in a large bowl and cover with plastic wrap . Put your dough in an oven with the light on (but turned off) and let it rise for 3 hours or until it has doubled in volume.
After this time, retrieve the dough and transfer it to a work surface . Knead it for a few seconds to form a log
and divide it into 3 equal portions , shaping each into a sphere . Roll each sphere using a rolling pin until you obtain ovals about 8 inches long and 4 inches wide.
Transfer the Nutella into a piping bag and use it to apply a strip of filling on each portion of dough . Then lift the two longer edges and pinch them together to seal the filling inside, and using the underside of your fingers, shape it into a log , repeat the same operation for the other two portions of dough.
Once you have obtained 3 logs of the same size, pinch the top ends together to secure them and proceed to braid them together to the end .
Once you have finished your braid, lift it and at the same time gently stretch it , then transfer it to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Lightly beat an egg, use it to brush the braid , and garnish it with hazelnut granules .
Once you have covered it evenly , bake your Nutella braid in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 30 minutes. Once golden brown, take it out of the oven and let it cool slightly before enjoying it !
You can store the braid in a food bag for about 2 days. The dough can be frozen after the 3-hour rise. Then it can be thawed in the refrigerator and brought to room temperature before baking.
To fill the braid, you can also use fruit jam as an alternative to Nutella. You can also use almonds or pistachios instead of hazelnut granules. You can flavor the dough with vanilla seeds or even with orange or lemon zest.

