name:
Poor Ravioli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Eggs: 4- medium
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: ¾cup(170 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ½cup(140 g)
Nutmeg: to taste- for grating
Lemon peel: - half, untreated
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)- (to grate)
Thyme: - a few leaves
Black pepper: 1pinch
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cherry tomatoes: 2 ½cups(360 g)
Basil: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ¾tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the draining time of the ricotta (about 12 hours) and the resting time of the fresh pasta

instructions:
To prepare the poor ravioli, start with the Homemade pasta (sheets and shapes) : pour the flour into a bowl, make a well in the center, and add the eggs. Start beating the eggs with a fork , gradually incorporating the flour. When the eggs have been absorbed , begin kneading the dough by hand and then transfer it to a work surface to knead it vigorously.
You should form a smooth and elastic dough ball . Place it in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let it rest in a cool place for at least 30 minutes . Meanwhile, focus on the filling: in a bowl, add the fresh sheep and cow ricotta which you have drained of whey overnight in the refrigerator (at least 12 hours).
Flavor the ricotta with grated nutmeg , the zest of an untreated lemon , and thyme leaves .
Add the grated Grana Padano PDO , a pinch of salt and pepper , and mix the ingredients with a fork . Pour the obtained cream into a pastry bag and place it in the refrigerator until ready to use.
Move on to preparing the sauce: in a pan, pour the oil and lightly sauté a garlic clove, then add the cherry tomatoes cut into wedges (you can remove the garlic). Salt, pepper to taste, and let cook for about 10 minutes. When the cherry tomatoes have softened, add the basil leaves and turn off the heat . Then take the egg pasta, divide it into pieces, and work with one piece at a time, keeping the rest covered with plastic wrap so it doesn't dry out. Roll out a small piece of dough and pass it through the machine, starting from the highest level to the lowest to obtain a very thin sheet (or you can roll the sheet with a long rolling pin). Proceed the same way with all the dough.
From the sheet, cut out discs using a 2.75-inch (7 cm) round cutter . Fill each disc with a dollop of ricotta cream placed in the center . To close each ravioli, fold the disc into a half-moon and with your thumb and index finger, fold the edges of the dough inward .
Transfer the prepared ravioli onto a lightly floured tray . When ready, drop them into a large pot of gently boiling salted water : cook them for about 5 minutes, then drain them with a slotted spoon .
and transfer them into the pan with the sauce , stir for a few moments to flavor the ravioli and serve your poor ravioli piping hot !
You can freeze the freshly made ravioli, well separated on a tray for 30 minutes and then collected together in a freezer bag. Then cook the ravioli directly from frozen.
Do you want to make the poor ravioli more intriguing? You can stuff them with ricotta and spinach, or add a bit of chili to the sauce. You can also choose to cook them in a vegetable broth!

