name:
Swordfish in crust with Jerusalem artichoke purée
ingredients:
Swordfish: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (4 slices)
Thyme: 3sprigs
Mint: 4sprigs
Parsley: 2tufts
Peperoncino: 1
Capers in vinegar: 4tsp(20 g)
Walnut kernels: 0.3cup(40 g)
Lemon peel: 1- (non trattato)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Jerusalem artichoke: 1.5lbs(650 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Vegetable broth: ¾cup(200 ml)
Parsley: 1tuft
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the crusted swordfish with Jerusalem artichoke purée, start by peeling the Jerusalem artichokes , then slice them . In a pan, sauté the garlic with a drizzle of oil and parsley leaves, then add the Jerusalem artichoke slices and cook over low heat for about 20 minutes, adding vegetable broth from time to time to aid cooking.
Once cooked, blend it with an immersion blender to obtain a creamy and homogeneous purée . Set aside and continue with the swordfish: prepare the aromatic herbs, walnuts, and capers drained from the preserving liquid : these will be used to create the crust for the swordfish fillets.
Place the mint leaves, thyme , parsley, capers, walnuts , and chili pepper in a food processor.
Blend everything to reduce it to a sandy mixture to pour onto a tray and season with untreated lemon zest . Brush both sides of the swordfish slices with olive oil
Place one slice of fish at a time in the breading and massage the surface to distribute it . Heat a large pan on the stove, and when it is very hot, start cooking the swordfish slices : a couple of minutes per side will be enough for the outside to become crispy while the meat inside remains soft and juicy. Once cooked, turn off the heat and divide a crusted swordfish slice and the Jerusalem artichoke purée onto serving plates .
Store the crusted swordfish with Jerusalem artichoke purée in the refrigerator for a maximum of 1 day in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer to flavor the herb crust differently, you can choose dill, chives, sage, or rosemary!

