name:
Chocolate panna cotta with caramelized bananas
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.9cup(100 g)
Bananas: 0.9lb(400 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Sugar: 8tbsp(100 g)
Bananas: 1- (small)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 5
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the panna cotta in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate panna cotta with caramelized bananas, start with the panna cotta: soak the gelatin sheets in a bowl of cold water for at least 10 minutes. Sift the powdered sugar and chop the dark chocolate .
Melt the chocolate in a double boiler by placing it in a bowl or putting a saucepan in another pot filled with water, making sure that the water does not touch the container with the chocolate. Stir to melt it completely , then add the heated cream and the sifted powdered sugar . Continue stirring with a spatula and heat everything over low heat without bringing it to a boil, continuing to stir to prevent the chocolate from forming lumps.
Squeeze the gelatin sheets well and add them to the mixture , then mix with a whisk until they are completely dissolved . Turn off the heat and pour the mixture into 5 molds and let them set in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours.
In the meantime, prepare the caramelized bananas: peel them , then in a pan or double-bottomed pot melt the butter with the sugar over very low heat , stir with a wooden spatula when melted and cook over very low heat until the caramel reaches an amber color. At that point, add the banana sliced into rounds about half a centimeter thick .
Distribute them evenly in the pan and cook for about 1 minute , then slowly add water and cook for another couple of minutes , until evaporated.
Turn off the heat and distribute the caramelized bananas on serving plates. Then take the panna cotta out of the refrigerator and to unmold them more easily, dip the molds for a few fractions of a second in a pot of hot water . Use a small knife to detach the edges more easily
and flip the molds to unmold the chocolate panna cotta onto the banana layer . Slice or cube the small banana for decoration and garnish the chocolate panna cotta with caramelized bananas before serving !
Store the chocolate panna cotta in molds in the refrigerator for 4-5 days. You can store the caramelized bananas in a closed container in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended as it may alter the consistency of the panna cotta.
For a more intense and aromatic taste, you can deglaze the caramelized bananas with 100 ml of rum or Grand Marnier, or you can add orange zest, whole or grated, to the caramel.

