name:
Crepe bundles with strawberries
ingredients:
Eggs: 2
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 ml)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Strawberries: 1.4cups(200 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(125 ml)
Dark chocolate: 4.5oz(125 g)
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)
Butter: 1oz(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for the crepe batter

instructions:
To prepare the crepe bundles with strawberries, start with the Sweet and savory crepes (Basic recipe) batter: sift the flour into a bowl, add the milk at room temperature and mix with a whisk until smooth and lump-free. Add 1 oz of melted butter and let it cool , then the sugar
mix everything with a whisk to combine the ingredients ; then cut a vanilla bean and scrape with a knife to collect the inner seeds . Add them to the mixture
while in a separate small bowl, beat the eggs and add them to the rest of the ingredients , stirring carefully with the whisk to obtain a homogeneous and creamy mixture . Place it in the refrigerator to rest for at least 30 minutes, covered with plastic wrap.
After the necessary time, heat a crepe pan or a large non-stick pan and grease it with a little butter ; pour a ladle of batter into the center and spread it across the surface using a specific tool or the back of the same ladle .
Cook the crepes for a minute, moving the pan occasionally or using a spatula to lift them from the bottom , then flip them to cook the other side; as you make the crepes, place them one on top of the other on a serving plate . Then prepare the filling cream: in a small bowl, pour the mascarpone and add the powdered sugar .
Wash the strawberries, remove the green leaves, and cut them into pieces , then add them to the mascarpone cream ; then make thin strands from the vanilla bean you used earlier : they will be used to tie the bundles.
Fill each crepe with a tablespoon of strawberry cream , then take the edges of the crepe and close them like a bundle (20-21).
Seal it with a vanilla bean strand and keep all the bundles aside covered with plastic wrap to prevent them from drying out. Finally, make the chocolate ganache: in a saucepan pour the cream and butter , heat over low heat and add the melted chocolate .
Stir with a wooden spoon until the chocolate is completely melted and the ganache thickens . When serving, pour the ganache on the serving plates and place the crepe bundles with strawberries on top !
Once the crepe bundles with strawberries are completed, it is preferable to consume them immediately, but you can store the preparations separately: the crepes in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap; the ganache and mascarpone cream in the refrigerator covered with contact film. Freezing is not recommended.
You can use another type of fruit of your choice, such as peaches, and fill the crepes with chantilly cream instead of mascarpone cream!

