name:
Chivito
ingredients:
Bread: 1- (baguette)
Sliced beef: 0.7lb(320 g)- (2 slices)
Prosciutto cotto: 2.8oz(80 g)- (2 thick slices)
Eggs: 2
Lettuce: 2leaves
Mozzarella cheese: 1
Cluster tomatoes: 1
Bacon: 1.75oz(50 g)
Mayonnaise: 2spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the chivito, start by boiling the eggs to make them hard-boiled ; meanwhile, in a non-stick pan, brown the bacon on both sides , and when it is crispy, place it on a tray lined with baking paper (set aside the pan with the cooking base).
Slice the beef rather thinly , drain the mozzarella from the whey then cut it into slices and cut the thick slices of cooked ham in half .
In the same pan in which you cooked the bacon, place the slices of beef , salt , and pepper to taste, and sear them on both sides over medium heat; then place the cooked ham
and the slices of mozzarella . Cover with the lid and cook for a few moments over low heat to melt the mozzarella. Then, peel the now hard-boiled eggs
and slice them ; also slice the tomato , prepare the lettuce leaves, and cut the loaf of bread .
Spread mayonnaise on the bread , place a lettuce leaf and the tomato slices ; then add the beef ,
distribute the crispy bacon slices , the sliced hard-boiled eggs and cover everything with another lettuce leaf .
Close the chivito sandwich with the other half of the bread, skewer it towards the ends with two long toothpicks and divide it to make two portions : your chivito is ready to be enjoyed !
It is preferable to enjoy the chivito as soon as it is ready, otherwise, you can store it in the refrigerator in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
To soften the bread, you can dip it in the sauce left in the meat cooking pan before spreading the mayonnaise. You can add mushrooms or grilled vegetables to your liking, peas, or beets to the filling.
This dish in Uruguay is served with French fries or presented even without bread, with the name "Chivito al plato".

