name:
Mint, Pea, and Squid Risotto
ingredients:
Arborio rice: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Calamari (squid): 10.5oz(300 g)- (cleaned)
Peas: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Mint: 5leaves
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Lemons: 1
Leeks: 1 ½cup(140 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 12 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the mint, pea, and squid risotto, start with the squid. If you bought whole squid, clean them following the instructions on our sheet how to clean squid: detach the head and remove the internal cartilage , rinse them under running water , and remove the skin and fins .
Cut the squid into rings , then thinly slice the leek and place half of it in a saucepan, add the olive oil and sauté over low heat. Then pour in a ladle of Vegetable broth and continue cooking to soften the leek; this will take at least 5 minutes.
Add the rice at this point , toast it for a few minutes, then deglaze with white wine . Continue cooking the risotto by occasionally adding a ladle of broth .
In another pan, sauté the remaining half of the leek with a drizzle of olive oil, soften over low heat for 5 minutes, add the peas , and continue cooking, adding broth little by little to prevent the vegetables from drying out. Cook for 10-15 minutes, then take 3-4 tablespoons of peas , transfer them to a tall and narrow container, and blend with an immersion blender
to obtain a homogeneous cream . Meanwhile, as the rice continues to cook, prepare the squid: slice the lemon zest into strips and squeeze out the juice .
Separately, sauté the squid rings in a pan with a drizzle of olive oil and salt . Flavor with lemon juice and zest .
Then incorporate the peas and flavor with chopped mint. Meanwhile, the risotto will be cooked; season it with the pea cream and mix to combine the ingredients .
Finally, add the sautéed squid . Stir everything, keeping the heat very low , and serve the mint, pea, and squid risotto hot .
It is recommended to consume the mint, pea, and squid risotto immediately; if necessary, the cream and sautéed squid can be frozen separately if you have used fresh, non-defrosted ingredients. If you have little time, you can prepare the cream in advance and store it in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for a couple of days.
If you love the fresh scent of mint, you can blend it with the peas: you will get an even more aromatic cream. This dish can be prepared in all seasons depending on the available vegetables: you can replace the peas with artichokes, zucchini, or asparagus.

