name:
Broccoli Burger
ingredients:
Hamburger muffins: 4
Broccoli: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Marjoram: 2pinches- (chopped)
Vegetable broth: ⅔cup(150 ml)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to grate)
Breadcrumbs: ⅓cup(50 g)
Eggs: 1
Cluster tomatoes: 10.5oz(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Vegetable oil: 0.4cup(100 ml)
Soy milk: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Lemon juice: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the broccoli burger, detach the florets from the main stalk of the broccoli , then wash them and cut the florets in half. Peel the potatoes and cut them into cubes of the same size if possible
In a skillet, pour a drizzle of oil and brown a garlic clove (you can remove it later); add the potatoes and cook them over medium heat for 5-10 minutes. Then also add the broccoli , salt and pepper to taste, and add chopped marjoram .
Cover with the lid ; add the Vegetable broth from time to time to aid cooking ; let it cook for at least 20 minutes or until both the potatoes and broccoli are soft. Once the vegetables are cooked, pass them through a food mill and collect the puree in a bowl .
Wait for the mixture to cool, then add the grated Parmesan , breadcrumbs , and knead. Then also add the egg
and knead again to combine it , then divide it into four parts. Form the burgers by placing a pastry ring with a diameter of 5 inches on a tray lined with parchment paper and filling it with the mixture to give the burgers a defined shape . Heat a non-stick skillet and cook the burgers a few minutes per side ,
until they are nicely golden . Now prepare the Fake mayonnaise without eggs to dress the broccoli burgers: in a tall container, pour the seed oil and soy milk at room temperature (17-18).
Add the equivalent of a tablespoon of lemon juice and a pinch of salt, and blend everything with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth and sufficiently thick cream .
Slice the vine tomatoes and hamburger buns. Then spread the mayonnaise on both halves of the buns , place the broccoli burger ,
the tomato slices , and close with the top half of the bun . Your broccoli burgers are ready to be served !
Store the broccoli burger in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, in an airtight container. You can freeze them if you used fresh, not defrosted ingredients. The fake mayonnaise can be stored in the refrigerator in a jar for 1-2 days.
The broccoli burgers can also be baked in the oven, at 392°F for 15 minutes!

