name:
Raspberry Tart
ingredients:
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)- cold from the fridge
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Lemon peel: 1
Raspberries: 3.3cups(400 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.25oz(7 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(200 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 2.1cups(500 g)
Lemon juice: 2 ½tbsp(35 ml)
Raspberries: 4cups(500 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + resting the shortcrust pastry in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the raspberry tart, start with the shortcrust pastry: place the sifted flour and chilled butter cut into pieces in a food processor ; pulse to create a sandy texture and pour the mixture onto a work surface. Grate the lemon zest , then add the powdered sugar and egg yolks in the center of the well .
Knead quickly by hand just long enough to compact the mixture. Form a dough ball, flatten it, and wrap it in plastic wrap . Then place the pastry in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. In the meantime, prepare the cream: soak the gelatin in a bowl with cold water for at least 10 minutes .
Squeeze the lemon juice and strain it; place the raspberries and lemon juice in a food processor cup , blend everything to obtain a smooth puree .
Strain it through a sieve and set it aside. In another bowl, add the mascarpone and half of the powdered sugar : use an electric mixer to create a smooth cream .
Add the raspberry puree ; then take 1/4 cup of the cream and heat it, squeeze the gelatin sheets and dissolve them in the heated cream, stirring with a whisk until completely dissolved .
You can whip the remaining cream with the other half of the powdered sugar . Then combine the cream in which you dissolved the gelatin and the whipped cream with the mascarpone and raspberry cream. Mix the mixture thoroughly (17-18),
then cover with plastic wrap and place the cream in the refrigerator to set. Butter and flour a 10-inch diameter tart pan . Take the pastry and roll it out into a disk about 1/3 inch thick .
Roll the disk onto the rolling pin and unroll it onto the tart pan ; remove the excess dough by running the rolling pin over the edges of the pan and press the dough against the edges and bottom of the pan: for this operation, you can use the dough scraps rolled into a ball and wrapped in plastic wrap . Prick the bottom of the tart with a fork
and proceed with How to do blind baking : line the bottom with parchment paper, then place ceramic weights (or legumes like beans) to cover . Bake the tart in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 30 minutes (320°F for 20 minutes if using a fan oven). After the necessary time, remove the tart from the oven just to remove the parchment paper and weights, then bake it again for another 5 minutes so that the base dries . Then take it out of the oven and let it cool completely, then unmold it and place it on a serving plate. Take the cream and pour it into a pastry bag without a nozzle. Fill the tart with the raspberry cream, forming concentric circles starting from the edge .
Level the cream with the help of a spatula and decorate the surface with raspberries arranged in a radial pattern, from the edge to the center : your raspberry tart is ready to be enjoyed !
Store the raspberry tart in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. You can freeze it if you have used all fresh, not defrosted ingredients. The shortcrust pastry dough can be frozen for about 1 month.
If you don't like raspberries, you can fill the tart with a cream based on strawberries or blueberries!

