name:
Savory cassata
ingredients:
Potatoes: 3.5lbs(1.6 kg)- yellow-fleshed
Eggs: 2- (medium)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to grate)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Prosciutto cotto: 4.25oz(120 g)- (sliced)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Basil: 4leaves
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(60 g)
Leeks: 1
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(25 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 ml)
Butter: 2tbsp(25 g)
Carrots: 2
Cheddar cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 9
Zucchini: 1- (medium)
Lemon juice: ½
Mint: 2leaves
Basil: 2leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note plus the cake resting time

instructions:
To make the savory cassata, start with the base dough: boil the potatoes in plenty of water , then, while still hot, mash them with a potato masher and flavor with grated nutmeg ,
grated Parmesan cheese , and add the eggs, season with salt and pepper, and mix with a spoon to combine the dough (it's important that the potatoes are very hot at this step so the egg doesn't remain raw). Butter and flour a cassata pan with a diameter of 11 inches and place half of the potato dough in the pan ,
press the mixture on the bottom and around the entire edge . Prepare the filling: soften the ricotta with the cream , scent with chopped basil leaves
and then fill the cassata with a layer of ricotta cream, level the surface with the back of a spoon, and lay the slices of ham on top . Cover with the remaining half of the mashed potatoes, level the surface with the back of a spoon (11-12), and let it firm up in the fridge for at least 3 hours.
Peel the leek and cut the green part into a trapezoid shape measuring about 2x1.75x2.5 inches , blanch them for a few minutes
and put them in ice water to cool and keep the color vibrant . Then drain them and dry them with a paper towel . Thinly slice the lighter part of the leek
and sauté it over low heat in a pan with a touch of oil for 5 minutes to soften . Prepare the Béchamel sauce : in a small pot, melt the butter over low heat, then incorporate the sifted flour and stir to create the roux, blend with the hot milk
and continue to stir over low heat to thicken the sauce . Transfer the béchamel to a narrow container, add the sautéed leeks , and blend with an immersion blender to obtain a homogeneous cream, strain it to make it smooth, and set aside to cool covered with plastic wrap. Meanwhile, prepare the decorations: wash and trim the zucchini, slice them with a vegetable peeler lengthwise to obtain thin strips , set aside the outer slices with the skin
and place the rest in a baking dish, season with oil, lemon juice , salt, pepper, basil, and mint, cover with plastic wrap , and let them marinate for at least 30 minutes in the refrigerator. After the marinating time, drain the zucchini and dry them with a paper towel .
Then take care of the carrots: peel and slice them thinly with a vegetable peeler lengthwise to obtain thin strips as you did with the zucchini . Roll up 15 carrot strips to make small roses . Keep aside another 8 strips that will serve as petals. Slice the cheddar and then cut small diamonds from these slices.
Also cut the slices of zucchini set aside into diamonds slightly smaller than the carrots because they will be overlaid on them later . Everything is ready to assemble the cassata: on a serving plate, invert the now set base , adhere the leek leaves to the edge, spacing them apart, spread the surface with the béchamel sauce , and keep the remaining in the refrigerator,
fold the zucchini to create petals and place them on the outermost part of the cake to create a flower pattern ; you will need 8 slices of zucchini, insert carrots inside each petal, place a cherry tomato between each petal , then create a circle with the carrot roses and place a cherry tomato in the center. Continue by inserting a cheddar diamond and a smaller zucchini diamond inside each petal. Finally, transfer the remaining béchamel to a piping bag with a small tip and trace the outline of the vegetables both on top and on the sides, creating a scalloped border . Your savory cassata is ready to impress your guests!
Store the savory cassata in the refrigerator for a couple of days. It is possible to freeze it if you have used fresh, non-defrosted ingredients.
If you want to vary the filling, you can use Robiola cheese and other tasty ingredients like olives and sun-dried tomatoes.

