name:
Cicatielli with mussels and beans
ingredients:
Semolina: 1 ¾cup(280 g)
Water: ⅔cup(150 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Cannellini beans: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Fresh scallion: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Parsley: 1tuft
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for fresh pasta

instructions:
To prepare the cicatielli with mussels and beans, start with the fresh pasta: pour the semolina into a bowl, add the warm water and olive oil. Begin to handle the ingredients in the bowl and when the dough is firmer, transfer it to a lightly floured work surface and knead it vigorously until you obtain a smooth and elastic dough. Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest for about 30 minutes at room temperature.
Move on to cleaning the mussels: rinse them thoroughly under running water , then remove the byssus , the beard protruding from the shell, and scrub them one by one to remove impurities .
In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil and heat slightly, then add the mussels , stir and cover with a lid so they open with the steam . As soon as they are all open, turn off the heat
drain the mussels, keeping the liquid to flavor the seasoning, leave some mussels whole, and remove the seafood from the majority of the mussels . Cover the seafood with plastic wrap and set them aside along with the cooking liquid (11-12).
Clean and chop the scallion , remove the seeds from the chili pepper and finely chop it as well . In a high-sided pan, pour the oil, the peeled garlic halved, and the chopped scallion
turn on the very low heat and stir to wilt the scallion; then add the chopped chili pepper . Add the cannellini beans (we used pre-cooked ones, but you can also use dried ones after soaking and boiling them separately) and let them cook and flavor for about ten minutes. Then turn off the heat and take out two tablespoons: pour them into a tall container along with the mussels' liquid
Blend everything with an immersion blender and then pour the cream into the pan with the beans . Take the dough, divide it into pieces to make thin cords .
then divide each cord into pieces of 1-1.5 cm : to create the typical hollow of the cicatielli, press with your thumb each piece of dough on the gnocchi board : you can also press with your thumb and slightly drag each piece on a smooth work surface. As you make them, you can arrange them on a tray lined with a lightly floured towel .
To cook the cicatielli, bring a large pot of salted water to a boil and add them inside to boil for a few minutes, 2-3 will be enough, then drain them and continue cooking in the pan with the bean seasoning . Turn on moderate heat, stir and also add the mussels you set aside .
Finally, finely chop the parsley bunch and add it to the pan : turn off the heat and your cicatielli with mussels and beans are ready to be enjoyed !
Cicatielli with mussels and beans can also be enjoyed cold. Once cleaned, if not used immediately, it is advisable to place the mussels in a bowl and cover them with cold water, placing them in the refrigerator for up to 8 hours. The cavatelli can be frozen raw and then cooked directly from frozen.
If you don't have much time available, you can prepare the cicatielli the day before and let them dry covered with a towel so they are ready for the next day!

