name:
Cavatelli with sausage and zucchini flowers
ingredients:
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1.67cups(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ½tbsp(8 g)
Water: 0.67cup(150 g)- (warm)
Luganega sausage: 0.8lb(360 g)
Zucchini flowers: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Thyme: 3sprigs
Wild fennel: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Garlic: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the fresh pasta

instructions:
To prepare the cavatelli with sausage and zucchini flowers, start with the fresh pasta: place the re-milled semolina in a bowl and gradually add the water, start kneading then add the oil and continue to knead. Transfer the mixture to a lightly floured work surface and handle it until you obtain a smooth and elastic dough ; wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest for about 30 minutes.
Devote yourself to the filling: remove the casing that surrounds the sausage , then in a large pan, pour the oil and brown the garlic . Then remove the garlic when it is well golden and add the sausage cut into coarse pieces .
Crumble it , stir and brown for a few minutes, then deglaze with white wine , let it evaporate, and continue cooking with the lid on .
At the end of cooking, season with chopped thyme and fennel (10-11), then turn off the heat. Take the cavatelli dough, make thin cords
divide them into pieces of about 3/8 inch and form the cavatelli: applying light pressure with the index and middle finger, hollow out the cavatello inside, dragging it to curl the edges a little . Place the cavatelli on a tray, sprinkle them with semolina, and let them rest for 15-30 minutes (you can also prepare the cavatelli in advance, letting them dry on a tray lined with a lightly floured kitchen towel). Cook the cavatelli in boiling salted water for at least 5-6 minutes , always checking the cooking with a taste test.
While the cavatelli are cooking, gently wash and dry the zucchini flowers, cut the stem and open the flowers in half to remove the internal pistil. Drain the cavatelli and pour them into the pan with the sausage .
Add the zucchini flowers as well , stir to blend and combine everything , then serve the cavatelli with sausage and zucchini flowers piping hot .
It is recommended to serve the cavatelli with sausage and zucchini flowers piping hot. You can freeze the raw pasta and then cook it directly from frozen.
If you prefer, you can give the dish a spicy touch by adding fresh chili pepper, deprived of the internal seeds, finely chopped and sautéed together with the garlic.

