name:
Caramelized Tomato Tart
ingredients:
Butter: 0.67cup(150 g)- cold from fridge
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.7oz(75 g)- to grate
Sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Thyme: 1sprig
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste
Cluster tomatoes: 4
Mozzarella cheese: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Oregano: 2sprigs
Brown sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Honey: 1tsp
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Oregano: to taste- dry

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the caramelized tomato tart, start by preparing the savory crust: place the flour, thyme , salt, sugar , and grated Grana cheese in a food processor with blades.
and add the cold butter in pieces . Run the processor to obtain a sandy mixture and pour it into a bowl, then add the egg yolks and quickly knead everything by hand until you get a compact and fairly elastic dough.
Form a dough ball and wrap it in plastic wrap , then place it in the fridge for at least 30 minutes. Now prepare the filling: cut the tomatoes into slices about 0.4 inches thick , slice the mozzarella in the same way and let it drain in a colander .
Melt the butter in a pan over low heat, then add the oregano, thyme , and garlic and sauté for a few minutes to flavor, then lay the tomatoes in the pan, trying not to overlap them excessively, and brown them over high heat; add the brown sugar and honey. Caramelize the tomatoes for a couple of minutes, turning them only once gently to avoid breaking them, then turn off the heat and let them cool slightly .
Take the savory crust dough, transfer it to a floured work surface, roll it out with a rolling pin to a thickness of about 0.4 inches . Line with parchment paper, previously moistened and wrung out, a 12-inch tart pan; roll the dough onto a rolling pin and unroll it onto the tart pan so it won't break . Press the bottom and edges of the dough well to adhere better to the pan and trim the excess edge with a smooth pastry cutter .
Arrange the slightly warm tomato slices and mozzarella slices in a circle, slightly overlapping them; start from the edges to the center (16-18) and finish by sprinkling dried oregano on the surface. Bake the tart in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40 minutes (if using a fan oven, set to 320°F for 30 minutes). Once cooked, remove the caramelized tomato tart from the oven and let it cool slightly before serving.
Store the caramelized tomato tart in the fridge for up to 3 days. It's possible to freeze the crust and thaw it in the refrigerator when needed.
As an alternative to mozzarella, you can use goat cheese or provolone, according to your taste.

