name:
Orecchiette with broccoli, anchovies, and sun-dried tomatoes
ingredients:
Water: 0.6cup(150 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1.8cups(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.8tsp(8 g)
Anchovies: 10.6oz(300 g)
Broccoli: 3.3cups(300 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 2.1oz(60 g)
Peperoncino: 1
Parsley: 1bunch
Thyme: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Bread: 150- Apulian-style loaf

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus the resting time of the dough

instructions:
To prepare the orecchiette with broccoli, anchovies, and sun-dried tomatoes, start by making the dough for the Orecchiette : sift the flour into a bowl and transfer it onto a work surface, forming the classic well with a hole in the center (alternatively, you can work the dough in a bowl). Add the water gradually and start kneading (the amount of water varies depending on the flour's absorption). Finally, add the oil and continue kneading until you obtain a very smooth and soft dough to which you will give a round shape.
Wrap the semolina dough in plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature for about 30 minutes until the dough becomes very elastic. In the meantime, clean the anchovies: remove the head and entrails , open the fish to remove the central bone and tail, thus obtaining two fillets, rinse them gently under running water, then cut into pieces and set aside.
Take the dough again, place it on a floured work surface, divide it into thin sticks , and then cut these into little pieces about 3/8 inch each . Using a rounded-tip knife, drag each piece of dough on the work surface so that the dough curves. During this operation, hold one side of the dough piece steady with the other hand .
At this point, place each shell on the tip of your thumb and turn it backward to create your orecchiette . Chop the thyme , remove the stem and seeds from the chili pepper, and chop it finely. If desired, chop the garlic or leave it whole. Separate the broccoli florets and cut them into small pieces. Remove the tougher outer part of the stem and cut it into small pieces.
Drain the sun-dried tomatoes and dry them with a kitchen cloth, then cut them into pieces .  Remove the crust from the loaf , chop it coarsely, then mince it finely in a mixer .
Heat the oil in a pan (at this step you can also add half of the minced herbs), then add the breadcrumbs and toast them for a few minutes until they become crispy . When golden, turn off the heat and immediately transfer them to a bowl to prevent further cooking in the hot pan, which could burn them. In a deep pot, bring plenty of salted water to a boil, add the broccoli florets and stem pieces , and cook them for two minutes after the water returns to a boil; they should remain crisp.
Meanwhile, heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the garlic clove (if you left it whole), the anchovies , the chili pepper , and the chopped thyme . Sauté the anchovies just long enough to lighten their color.
By now the broccoli will be ready, directly drain them into the pan with the anchovies , and add the sun-dried tomatoes . In the broccoli cooking water, cook the orecchiette (alternatively, you can cook them together with the broccoli)
and then drain them directly into the pan , if necessary add a ladle of cooking water, let them flavor over medium heat for a couple of minutes. Turn off the heat and finally add the crispy breadcrumbs and a sprinkle of chopped parsley. Your orecchiette with broccoli, anchovies, and sun-dried tomatoes are ready, enjoy them hot!
It is recommended to consume the orecchiette with broccoli, anchovies, and sun-dried tomatoes immediately. You can freeze them raw: place them on a tray, well separated from each other, then put them in the freezer. Once frozen, you can store them in a freezer bag, without risking them sticking together, and keep them for up to 2 months.
If you use sun-dried tomatoes not preserved in oil, make sure to soak them in warm water before use.

