name:
Pan focaccia
ingredients:
Water: ¾cup(175 g)- at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 2.8cups(350 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 2 ½tsp(7 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Sausage: 0.9lb(400 g)
Zucchini: 1cup(125 g)
Wild fennel: to taste- seeds
Red wine: 1oz(30 ml)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the skillet focaccia, start with the filling: cut the sausage open and remove the casing , then chop it with a knife , while using a mandolin to slice the zucchini thinly lengthwise ;
Prepare the chili pepper as well: remove the seeds and chop it; then pour a drizzle of oil in a large skillet, fry a peeled garlic clove , and remove it when golden brown. Add the chopped chili pepper
and the sausage ; stir and let it fry briefly. Then deglaze with red wine and let it evaporate. Then add salt and cook the sausage for about 15-20 minutes (it should not dry out too much).
Towards the end of cooking, season with crushed fennel seeds ; while the sausage is cooking, grill the zucchini on a cast-iron grill or non-stick skillet . Once the filling is ready, you can focus on the dough: sift the flour into a bowl and add the warm water .
Add the instant yeast and mix with a fork to combine the ingredients ; finally add the salt. When the dough becomes more compact, transfer it to a lightly floured work surface and knead by hand .
when you have obtained a soft and homogeneous dough (if it is too sticky, you can add a little flour), divide it in half . Meanwhile, oil a skillet about 12 inches in diameter
heat it slightly and in the meantime roll out the two halves of dough into two thin discs about 1/8 inch thick with the same diameter as the skillet . Fill one with the sausage and zucchini filling (20-21),
then roll the other dough disc and unroll it over the filled one , seal the edges with the tines of a fork and trim the excess dough with a fluted pastry cutter . Then transfer the focaccia to the slightly heated skillet to cook it ; it will take 7-8 minutes total, for both sides.
Brush the surface with oil as well , you can cook it covered with a lid, then when the bottom is golden brown, you can cook it for a few minutes on the other side too. To flip it, you can use the skillet lid, just like flipping an omelet . Cook the focaccia on the other side as well and then serve it hot !
You can store the skillet focaccia in the refrigerator for 1 day and reheat it as needed. It can be frozen after cooking and cooling down if you used fresh, not previously frozen, ingredients.
Create the skillet focaccia to your liking: classic with ham and cheese or with a vegetable filling!

