name:
White chocolate pudding
ingredients:
Whole milk: 3 ⅓cups(800 ml)
White chocolate: 5.6oz(160 g)
Condensed milk: 3.8tbsp(70 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(10 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 0.6cup(60 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.625cup(150 g)
Water: 0.6cup(140 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Butter: ½tbsp(10 g)
Dark chocolate: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Preparation To make the chocolate pudding, place the gelatin sheets in a bowl with cold water for at least 10 minutes . Meanwhile, in a bowl, beat the egg yolks with the condensed milk , heat the milk in a saucepan over low heat
then pour in the beaten egg mixture and incorporate the white chocolate . Finally, add the drained and well-squeezed gelatin sheets and stir until completely dissolved.
Transfer the mixture into 4 molds with a capacity of 1 cup using a ladle and let the puddings set in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours. In the meantime, prepare the dark chocolate sauce: pour the cream , water
and also add the sugar , heat the mixture and stir to dissolve the sugar . Separately, sift the unsweetened cocoa powder
and incorporate it one tablespoon at a time, always stirring . Finally, add the butter , stir and cook over low heat until the mixture thickens. You should obtain a slightly thick sauce. (About 15 minutes) if you prefer a thicker sauce, leave it on the heat a bit longer, always stirring. Transfer the obtained sauce into a bowl
Then let it cool with a film in contact to prevent a skin from forming on the surface . When the pudding is well set, you can unmold it. To facilitate this operation, immerse the mold for a few moments in a pot with hot water and then flip it onto the serving plate, on which you have poured a layer of chocolate sauce and then garnish the pudding with some dark chocolate curls .
You can store the white chocolate puddings for 1-2 days in the refrigerator in the molds and covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended.
As an alternative to chocolate sauce, you can accompany the white chocolate puddings with a strawberry coulis or other seasonal fruit of your choice. You can replace the condensed milk with a whole egg beaten with 1 1/2 tbsp of sugar.

