name:
Bigoli with asparagus, artichokes, and pea pesto
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Eggs: 4- (medium)
Peas: 1.875cups(300 g)
Asparagus: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Artichokes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Pine nuts: 1spoonful
Smoked pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to grate)
Vegetable broth: 1.1cups(250 ml)
Lemon juice: ½- (to soak the artichokes)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the bigoli with asparagus, artichokes, and pea pesto, start by making the Homemade pasta (sheets and shapes) : in a bowl, pour the flour, create the classic well, and pour the eggs in the center . Then start working the ingredients with your hands, gradually incorporating the flour . Transfer the dough onto a work surface and knead it for at least 10 minutes until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture. Form a dough ball and wrap it with plastic wrap , then let it rest at room temperature for about 30 minutes.
Carefully wash the asparagus under running water, removing the fibrous green part with a peeler . Cook them for about 10 minutes in boiling water in an asparagus steamer, making sure to leave the tips, the most delicate part, outside (cooking times may vary depending on the thickness of the stalks) . Once cooked, cut the stems into pieces and set the tips aside.
Meanwhile, cook the peas in boiling water ; when they are tender, drain them , transfer them to a mixer, add olive oil , and pine nuts
and grated Parmesan cheese . Blend the peas until you obtain a creamy mixture and set it aside. Take the fresh pasta and make the bigoli with the appropriate machine. Divide the dough into small portions to place in the basket that holds the dough, operate the machine to create the bigoli
and lay them without overlapping on a well-floured work surface . Meanwhile, clean the artichokes by removing the tougher outer leaves, cut the heart into thin strips , and to prevent them from browning, keep them in a bowl with water and the juice of half a lemon. Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, sauté the bacon cubes for a few moments, and then add the artichokes ,
pour a ladle of broth and cook the artichokes for 5 minutes, then add the asparagus pieces , season with salt, pepper, and thyme leaves, and let them flavor for a few minutes. Meanwhile, cook the bigoli in plenty of salted water for a few minutes
then drain them directly into the pan with the sauce , at this point, incorporate the pea pesto , mix, and lastly add the asparagus tips. The bigoli with asparagus, artichokes, and pea pesto are ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the bigoli with asparagus, artichokes, and pea pesto immediately. You can store the pea pesto separately and freeze it if you have used fresh ingredients. You can freeze or vacuum pack the bigoli. For freezing, place the tray with the bigoli in the freezer to harden for a couple of hours. Once well hardened, put them in freezer bags, preferably already portioned, and put them back in the freezer. When you need to use them, cook them directly from frozen in boiling water and proceed as per the recipe.
If you do not have the machine for bigoli, you can use a meat grinder or alternatively, you can make them by hand by rolling out the dough and creating thin sticks; they will just be a bit more rustic.

