name:
Salted caramel semifreddo
ingredients:
Caramel: 2.5oz(70 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(240 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Caramel: 2cups(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Butter: 1 ⅓cup(300 g)
Brown sugar: ¼cup(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Water: 4tbsp(60 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(235 g)
Egg whites: 0.3cup(85 g)
Caramel: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the salted caramel semifreddo, start with the preparation of the cookie: in a mixer place the sifted flour, cold butter in pieces , a pinch of salt, and the brown sugar . Operate the blades for a few moments, just long enough to obtain a sandy mixture, transfer it to a bowl and pour in the caramel sauce ,
knead by hand to gather all the ingredients when you get a compact mixture, transfer it to a work surface, shape it into a loaf, cover it with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes, until it is firm. After this time, roll out the dough with a rolling pin on a lightly floured work surface, creating a sheet about 1/5 inch thick .
Now cut 12 rectangular cookies measuring about 4.3 x 1.6 inches, (be sure to set aside the remaining dough) and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake the cookies in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 25 minutes (or in a ventilated oven at 320°F for 15 minutes). Once baked, remove the cookies from the oven and let them cool .
Take the leftover dough, place it in the mixer to chop it coarsely , transfer the mixture to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake at 340°F for 20 minutes, the time needed to make the crumbs crunchy creating a crumble, remove it from the oven and let it cool .
Now take care of the cream and start with the preparation of the meringue: In a heavy-bottomed saucepan, pour the sugar, add the water heat over low heat to dissolve the sugar while stirring; when the syrup has formed and begins to boil, immerse the special thermometer , which will indicate the temperature to reach, that is 248°F. Meanwhile, start whipping the egg whites with a stand mixer fitted with a whisk at medium speed, the egg whites need to be well whipped when the syrup reaches 248°F.
When the syrup has reached the above temperature, pour it in a thin stream into the egg whites , continuing to whip with the whisk until the meringue is completely cooled . Meanwhile, in a bowl place the mascarpone, incorporate the caramel sauce and a pinch of salt, stirring with a spatula
then also add the cooled meringue . Separately, in a stand mixer fitted with a whisk or with an electric mixer, whip the fresh liquid cream to stiff peaks and then gently incorporate it into the cream to avoid deflating it ,
the cream is ready you can assemble the semifreddo. Take a loaf pan measuring 10 x 5 inches with a side about 2.8 inches high, spread a layer of cream on the bottom then cover the cream by placing the cookies side by side
continue with another layer of cream, smooth the surface well with the spatula and finish with the cookies . Cover the dessert with plastic wrap and place it in the freezer to set for at least two hours.
After the resting time, your semifreddo will be ready, to serve it, turn it over onto a serving plate and garnish it with the caramel sauce and the crumble (28-29), now you just have to enjoy your salted caramel semifreddo !
Store the salted caramel semifreddo in the refrigerator in an airtight container or well-covered with plastic wrap for 3-4 days. You can also freeze it and thaw it in the fridge the day before consuming.
Instead of the crumble, to give a crunchy note, you can garnish the semifreddo with chopped hazelnuts or almond flakes.

