name:
Alfajores
ingredients:
Potato starch: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Sugar: 0.4cup(75 g)
Butter: 4.5oz(125 g)- (softened at room temperature)
Baking soda: 1pinch
Lemon peel: 1
Eggs: 1
Egg yolks: 1
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Milk: 1.4cups(330 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Makes: 25 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the dough resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the alfajores, start with the cookie dough: in the bowl of a stand mixer, add the sugar and soft butter in pieces , start the whisk and meanwhile separate the yolk from the white . Add the yolk to the dough
and when it is incorporated, add the whole egg and let it incorporate. In a bowl, sift the flour, potato starch (or cornstarch), and grate the lemon zest . Then stop the mixer, add the powders to the mixture
mix everything with a spatula , then attach the paddle attachment and work the dough for a few more minutes until it is homogeneous : the dough will be very soft. Then transfer it onto a sheet of plastic wrap
wrap it carefully to form a block (10-11) and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours. Meanwhile, work on the Dulce de leche : in a saucepan, pour the milk and the split vanilla bean (you can also use half for a less intense aroma);
add the sugar and baking soda , heat over low heat and stir with a wooden spoon . Continue cooking until the milk reaches a boil, then keep stirring until the obtained cream darkens. At this point, remove the vanilla bean with kitchen tongs
and continue cooking the dulce de leche over medium heat until you achieve a gooey consistency similar to caramel sauce (this will take about 1 hour) . Keep in mind that the longer you cook it, the harder the dulce de leche will get. Once ready, put it in a small bowl and let it cool to room temperature. After the necessary time, take the dough, sprinkle it with a little flour, and roll it out to a thickness of half a centimeter (0.2 inches). Use a 4 cm (1.5 inches) diameter cookie cutter to make the discs
that you can place on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper : to keep their shape well, it is advisable to put them back in the fridge for about ten minutes. Then bake them in a preheated static oven at 356°F (180°C) for about 10 minutes (320°F/160°C for 5 minutes if using a convection oven); for better baking, you can try baking 1-2 alfajores as a first batch to test times and temperature. Once cooked, take them out and let them cool on a rack; when both preparations are well chilled, you can assemble the alfajores: Spread the dulce de leche on half of the cookies and close with the other disks (20-21). Serve the alfajores at any time of the day!
For optimal storage, you can keep the dulce de leche in the refrigerator (if it hardens too much, just heat it slightly over low heat), and the alfajores in a jar or under a glass dome for 2-3 days. The alfajores dough can be frozen; it is possible to preserve the dulce de leche in sterilized airtight jars.
As an alternative to dulce de leche, you can fill the alfajores with jams of your choice!
It seems that the origin of these small pastries is Arabic; alfajor (al-hasú) in Arabic means "filled".

