name:
Maltagliati with broad beans and cured ham
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Fava beans: 6.6lbs(3 kg)- with pod
Cherry tomatoes: 1.67cups(250 g)
Prosciutto crudo: 4slices
Thyme: 3sprigs
Basil: 5leaves
Vegetable broth: ½cup(100 ml)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the dough

instructions:
To prepare the maltagliati with broad beans and ham, start with the egg pasta: sift the flour into a bowl , create a well in the center, and place the eggs. Begin working the ingredients (you can initially beat the eggs with a fork if you prefer) with your hands directly in the bowl (2-3); keep some lukewarm water at hand that you can add if necessary to make the egg pasta softer and of the ideal consistency to roll out with a rolling pin.
Finish kneading on a work surface to obtain a smooth and homogeneous consistency; form a ball and place it in the bowl wrapped with plastic wrap: it should rest for at least 30 minutes in a cool place, away from drafts. In the meantime, focus on the sauce: wash and cut the cherry tomatoes into quarters , slice the ham into pieces
and shell the broad beans , removing the outer skin if necessary and the growth (for these operations, you can consult the cooking school sheet: How to Clean Fava Beans ); you will need about 10.5 oz of cleaned broad beans. In a large pan, pour a drizzle of olive oil and a peeled and halved garlic clove (you can remove it when it is golden). Add the broad beans and sauté for a couple of minutes. Salt and pepper, then add the Vegetable broth to facilitate cooking , season with thyme, and let cook for 5-10 minutes.
In another pan, sauté the cherry tomatoes with a drizzle of olive oil for a few minutes, salt and pepper, and season with basil leaves ; then add the broad beans and let it all brown and flavor for a few moments (you can decide to cook the cherry tomatoes and broad beans in the same pan for 5-10 minutes).
Meanwhile, take the egg pasta again, divide it into two loaves; while rolling out the first, keep the other wrapped in plastic wrap. Roll it out with the rolling pin into a sheet not too thin, 1-2 mm will be sufficient . Then cut into strips and cut the pasta into diamonds or any shape, maltagliati in fact .
Place them one by one on a tray lined with lightly floured baking paper and also flour the maltagliati . Then roll out the other loaf and repeat the same operations. Bring a pot of salted water to a boil as desired and cook the maltagliati a little at a time for just a few minutes. Then drain the maltagliati with a slotted spoon
and add them to the sauce in the pan : mix and also add the cured ham . Stir for a moment to blend the ingredients, and your maltagliati with broad beans and ham are ready to be served !
You can store the maltagliati with broad beans and ham in the refrigerator for 1 day in an airtight container. It is possible to freeze the raw fresh pasta; to freeze, you can place the tray with the maltagliati in the freezer to harden them for a couple of hours. Once well-hardened, put them in freezer bags, preferably already portioned, and store them again in the freezer. When you need to use them, boil them directly from frozen in boiling water and proceed as per the recipe.
If you prefer, you can dress the maltagliati with peas instead of broad beans or stay in a spring theme with asparagus!

