name:
Lemon Ricotta Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.67cup(150 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Egg yolks: 1- (from medium egg)
Eggs: 1- medium
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Eggs: 5.6oz(160 g)- (about 4 small)
Powdered sugar: 1.1cups(125 g)
Lemon peel: 1- untreated
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the draining time of the ricotta and the setting of the shortcrust pastry in the refrigerator

instructions:
Before starting to make the lemon ricotta cake, make sure to drain the whey from the ricotta by placing it in a fine-mesh sieve and in the refrigerator, preferably overnight. Then begin to prepare the Ricotta shortcrust pastry : sift the flour and place it in a bowl, add the granulated sugar, a pinch of salt, the drained ricotta , and the eggs .
Mix quickly by hand in the bowl , then transfer it to a surface and work it for a very short time to compact and make it uniform. Form a dough ball, wrap it in plastic wrap , and place your ricotta shortcrust pastry in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes.
After this time, start preparing the filling: sift the ricotta into a bowl , add the grated lemon zest and powdered sugar . Then add the eggs, mix everything gently with a spatula , and store in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap.
Now take your ricotta shortcrust pastry dough and, using a rolling pin, roll it out on a well-floured work surface to a thickness of a quarter inch. Roll the dough onto the rolling pin and transfer it to a 10-inch diameter pan . In this case, we used a perforated tart pan, but if you don't have one, greasing and flouring a standard pan will suffice. Using your hands, make the shortcrust pastry adhere to your tart pan .
and trim the excess parts . Quickly knead the scraps and roll them out again . Using a fluted pastry cutter, cut strips about 0.5 inches wide to create the lattice top for the tart.
Retrieve the ricotta mixture, pour it into the tart pan , and decorate the surface according to your taste. For a more playful look, we decided to create a woven pattern. To do this, lay 6 strips of dough on the cake side by side, ensuring the same distance between each strip . Then fold the second, fourth, and sixth strips on themselves; starting from the center of the cake, place the first strip perpendicular to the others .
Then lay the second, fourth, and sixth strips back over the cream to cover the perpendicular one. Next, lift and fold the first, third, and fifth strips ; place another strip of dough perpendicular a couple of inches away from the previous one and return the first, third, and fifth strips to their original position . Continue in this manner until the entire decoration is completed, creating a lattice pattern; then trim the excess dough using a small knife .
Brush the strips with a previously beaten egg and bake the lemon ricotta cake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 80 minutes, covering it with aluminum foil after the first 60 minutes (if using a fan oven, bake at 330°F for about 60 minutes, covering the cake after the first 20 minutes). Once cooked, remove from the oven and let it cool completely before unmolding and serving .
Store the lemon ricotta cake in the refrigerator for 2-3 days covered with plastic wrap. It can be frozen, perhaps already portioned if you have used all fresh, non-defrosted ingredients. The shortcrust pastry can be frozen for about a month and thawed in the refrigerator as needed before using.
We used a butterless shortcrust for a softer result. If you prefer a more crumbly dough, you can use traditional shortcrust pastry.

