name:
Almond panna cotta
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Almond milk: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Powdered sugar: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Almond flavoring: 1tsp- bitter
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(200 ml)
Coffee: 1tazza da caffè
Powdered sugar: 2tsp(10 g)
Almond slices: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 5 hours of resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
To make almond panna cotta, start by placing the gelatin in cold water for 10 minutes or until softened. Meanwhile, pour the cream and almond milk into a saucepan , add the bitter almond extract and heat the mixture over low heat until just before boiling,
then turn off the heat and incorporate the sifted powdered sugar , stirring with a whisk to dissolve the sugar. Now squeeze the softened gelatin sheets well
and add them to the hot mixture , stirring with the whisk to dissolve the gelatin well without lumps. Now pour the liquid into 4 molds with a capacity of 200 ml each, using a ladle . Place the molds in the refrigerator to set for at least 5 hours or until firm (the time may vary depending on your refrigerator's cooling capacity). After the necessary time, take the molds and unmold them; to facilitate this operation, dip them in boiling water for a few seconds ,
then turn them directly onto the serving plate . Put the panna cotta back in the refrigerator and, in the meantime, prepare the garnish cream: whip the well-chilled cream with electric whisks (for best results, see the guide How to Whip Cream ) when semi-whipped, incorporate the powdered sugar and continue until stiff peaks form.
Then pour the espresso coffee , gently mix to combine the ingredients, transfer the cream to a pastry bag and garnish each almond panna cotta with dollops of coffee cream and flaked almonds .
We recommend consuming the almond panna cotta just made, but if you wish, you can store it in the refrigerator for up to one day in an airtight container. It is possible to freeze the panna cotta and then thaw it in the refrigerator.
As an alternative to almond flavoring, you can use the seeds of a vanilla bean to flavor the mixture.

