name:
Chocolate ring cake with hazelnut cream
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Nut flour: 0.4cup(45 g)
Eggs: 8.1oz(230 g)- (about 5)
Butter: 13 ½tbsp(190 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 0.85cup(170 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.67cup(150 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Brown sugar: ⅓cup(70 g)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 5.3tbsp(40 g)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 ml)
Hazelnut paste: ¾cup(180 g)
Sugar: 0.67cup(125 g)
Cornstarch: 6tbsp(50 g)
Egg yolks: 4
Gelatin in sheets: 0.25oz(6 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(200 ml)
Dark chocolate: to taste
Chopped hazelnuts: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Very low
Note + the cooling of the preparations

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate ring cake with hazelnut cream, start with the cake batter: coarsely chop the dark chocolate and melt it in a double boiler or microwave. Once melted, add the previously heated cream , stir , and let it cool down.
In the meantime, place the softened butter at room temperature in the bowl of a stand mixer (if you don't have a stand mixer, you can use an electric mixer), mount the beaters and start working it into a cream. Add the granulated sugar and once it is incorporated, add the brown sugar ; once the mixture is well whipped, also pour in the hazelnut flour in a shower-like manner .
At this point, you can add the eggs one at a time to the batter and once they are incorporated, slowly pour in the cream and melted chocolate mixture . In a bowl, sift together the unsweetened cocoa, flour, and baking powder .
Gradually incorporate the dry ingredients with a spoon . When the batter is homogeneous and creamy, stop the mixer: butter and flour a 10-inch diameter ring mold and pour the batter inside, leveling it with a spatula to distribute it evenly . Bake the ring cake in a static preheated oven at 356°F for 50 minutes (320°F for 40 minutes if ventilated). If the cake tends to darken too much, after half an hour of baking you can cover it with aluminum foil and continue baking for the remaining time. Once baked, remove it from the oven and let it cool slightly, then gently turn it out onto a rack to cool completely .
Work on the hazelnut cream for the filling: soak the gelatin sheets in a bowl with cold water for at least 10 minutes . In the meantime, in a heavy-bottomed saucepan, off the heat, pour the yolks and sugar , work them with the whisk until you get a homogeneous and fluid mixture .
Add the sifted cornstarch , mix again with the whisk, then slowly pour in the milk and the hazelnut paste (not a spreadable cream but obtained from refining hazelnuts) .
Finally, pour the liquid cream and mix well. Turn on medium heat to gently cook the cream: continue stirring with a whisk until it thickens . At this point, add the drained and well-squeezed gelatin sheets and stir to dissolve them completely.
Transfer the cream to a wide, shallow bowl to cool the cream faster. Cover it with cling film touching the surface (to speed up the cooling process if you don't have a home blast chiller, place the bowl with the cream in a larger bowl filled with ice so that it cools quickly while maintaining its consistency); then place it in a piping bag with a rather large plain nozzle ; you can store the cream in the fridge until ready to use. When the ring cake is cold, cut it in half .
Place the base of the ring cake on a serving plate and fill with the hazelnut cream , then close with the other half of the ring cake . Now focus on the glaze: transfer the remaining hazelnut cream to a bowl and dilute it with fresh liquid cream ;
work the mixture with the whisk to make it soft like a glaze . Distribute it over the ring cake with a spoon, creating dramatic drips (29-30).
To decorate, you can create chocolate curls by shaving a block of dark chocolate with a vegetable peeler . Then distribute the hazelnut crumbles over the ring cake and the chocolate curls. Your chocolate ring cake with hazelnut cream is ready to be enjoyed !
You can store the chocolate ring cake with hazelnut cream in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. You can prepare the ring cake the day before and store it under a glass dome or covered with cling film. The hazelnut cream can be stored in the refrigerator covered with cling film for 1-2 days. Both the cream and the ring cake can be frozen and thawed as needed to assemble the dessert.
Hazelnut flour can be found in well-stocked supermarkets, otherwise you can make it yourself by grinding toasted (and cooled) hazelnuts at low speed in a mixer along with some of the sugar so that the sugar absorbs all the oil produced by the hazelnuts.

