name:
Phyllo Dough Cannoli with Pistachio
ingredients:
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: 3.1cups(750 g)
Pistachio paste: 3.5oz(100 g)
Phyllo dough: 8.5oz(240 g)
Chocolate drops: 3oz(80 g)
Powdered sugar: 2.8cups(350 g)
Egg whites: 1
Butter: 2.5oz(70 g)
Ground pistachio: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 35 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 12 h of ricotta draining and cream resting in the fridge

instructions:
To prepare the pistachio phyllo dough cannoli, start with the filling: sift the ricotta, which you have carefully drained of whey overnight in the refrigerator, using a fine mesh sieve . Repeat the process at least twice to make the ricotta creamier and smoother (if the ricotta is too firm, you can thin it out with a little fresh milk or cream), then add the powdered sugar (you can also use granulated sugar) and mix the ingredients. Then add the pistachio paste .
Mix the ingredients well and place the cream in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes covered with plastic wrap in contact with the surface (if you want to enhance the flavor even more, you can prepare it the night before and let it rest in the refrigerator overnight. The chocolate chips should be added only when filling the cannoli). Meanwhile, prepare the cannoli: first, melt the butter, then take a sheet of phyllo dough; you can cut it in half with a pastry cutter to overlap the layers more easily . Brush one layer with the melted butter ,
then overlap another sheet : brush the second sheet as well and lay a third one. While performing these operations, be careful to cover the other unbrushed phyllo dough sheets with plastic wrap so they don't dry out too much in contact with air. Using a smooth-edged pastry cutter, cut squares about 2 inches per side .
Wrap each square around a cannoli mold, starting from one of the corners and seal the tips by brushing them with a slightly beaten egg white (10-11) (take care not to brush the mold as well, otherwise you will not be able to remove the cannoli after baking). Then place the cannoli on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake them in a preheated static oven at 390°F for about 8-10 minutes (355°F for 5-6 minutes if using a convection oven): phyllo dough cooks very quickly.
Once golden, remove them from the oven and let them cool completely, then gently remove the molds . Take the cream from the refrigerator and sift it at least a couple of times to make it smoother and more velvety . Add the chocolate chips and blend them into the filling by mixing with a spatula .
Fill a piping bag without a nozzle or with a smooth nozzle with the cream and fill each cannoli . As a final touch, you can dip one end of the phyllo dough cannoli into pistachio crumbles (or hazelnut or almond if you prefer). Serve the pistachio phyllo dough cannoli as soon as they are filled !
Store the phyllo dough cannoli shells under a glass dome or in a zip-lock bag; they can be frozen. You can keep the cream in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for 1-2 days: this way, you can assemble the cannoli as needed, preserving the crunchiness of the shell and the freshness of the filling.
Remember to add the chocolate chips at the last moment, just before filling the cannoli! If you prefer, you can also use cow's ricotta or, for an even more delicate flavor, buffalo ricotta for the filling. If you're a fan of tradition, you can also omit the pistachio paste and flavor the ricotta cream with chocolate chips, candied fruits, or nuts!
Phyllo dough consists of ultra-thin layers of dough made from water and flour. Phyllo in Greek means "sheet" and refers to the thin layers of dough that compose it. Making it at home requires a lot of patience and great skill. For convenience, it can be purchased ready-made, fresh or frozen.

