name:
Spaghetti alla chitarra with meatballs
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2.4cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Lamb chops: 0.7lb(300 g)
Pork ribs: 0.7lb(300 g)
Beef: 0.7lb(300 g)- brisket
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
White onions: 1
Peeled tomatoes: 3cups(700 g)
White wine: 1.7oz(50 ml)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Pork: 0.7lb(300 g)- ground
Eggs: 1
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.75oz(20 g)- to grate
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 3 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare spaghetti alla chitarra with meatballs, start with the meatballs: in a bowl, place the ground meat, egg, pepper , cheese , salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Mix with your hands to combine the ingredients and form the meatballs, which should not be larger than 0.4 inches .
As you form the meatballs, place them on a floured tray , then cover with plastic wrap and set aside. Now, take care of the meat sauce: finely chop celery, carrot, and onion and slowly sauté with a drizzle of oil .
Add the meat and brown it well, then deglaze with white wine , let it evaporate for a moment, and then add the peeled tomatoes .
Mix to flavor the meat , salt, and pepper, cover with a lid, and let cook for about 3 hours. In the meantime, prepare the egg pasta: sift the flour into a bowl, then place it in a mound on the work surface, make a well in the center , and pour in the eggs that you have kept at room temperature.
Starting from the inside, mix the eggs with a fork or spoon, gradually incorporating the flour from the edges; then work the dough with your hands from outside to inside, combining all the flour on the work surface. Wrap the obtained dough in plastic wrap and let it rest for about 1 hour in a cool, dry place. After resting, the fresh pasta will be softer and more elastic: get ready to roll it out. Flour the work surface and equip yourself with a rolling pin. Before rolling it out, flatten your dough ball slightly with your fingers, roll out the sheet to about 0.2 inches thick .
Once the sheet is formed, flour it well and then place it on the “chitarra” . Roll the rolling pin over it to cut the pasta . Flour it well and place it on a wooden pasta drying rack or form a nest to place on a tray with floured parchment paper or a floured cloth.
Remove the cooked meat pieces from the sauce and set them aside , place the meatballs in a pan and sauté for a few minutes with a drizzle of oil , then pour in the sauce without the meat pieces .
Place a pot full of salted water on the stove and bring it to a boil, add the spaghetti and cook for about 5 minutes. Drain the pasta and dress it with the sauce , excluding the meat, which you can use to accompany the dish.
Consume the spaghetti alla chitarra with meatballs immediately. You can store the meatballs separately in the refrigerator for 1-2 days or freeze them if you used fresh ingredients. It is possible to prepare the meatballs 8-12 hours before cooking them by keeping them in the refrigerator. You can freeze the fresh pasta raw and then cook it directly from frozen.
For this preparation, the egg pasta should not be soft. You can also help yourself with a bit of semolina for rolling.

