name:
Nutella Tartlets
ingredients:
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- (cold from the fridge)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Lemon peel: - half
Egg yolks: 2
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Nutella: 0.67cup(180 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + the resting time of the shortcrust pastry in the fridge

instructions:
To prepare the Nutella tartlets, start with the shortcrust pastry: in a mixer, place the sifted flour, a pinch of salt, and the butter just taken out of the fridge, roughly chopped . Blend everything until you get a sandy texture ; pour the resulting mixture onto a work surface (or in a bowl) and add the sifted powdered sugar; create a well and in the center pour the grated lemon zest
and the egg yolks . Mix everything first with a fork, then when the eggs have absorbed the flour, you can continue by hand. Knead just enough to bring the dough together so that the pastry does not warm too much from the heat of your hands and remains flaky. Form a dough ball and flatten it before wrapping it in plastic wrap ; place it in the refrigerator to chill for at least 30 minutes.
After the necessary time, roll out the dough to a thickness of about ¼ inch and with a pastry cutter (or a cup) with a diameter of 5 ¼ inches, cut out 4 disks . Place them in tartlet molds of about 4 ¾ inches in diameter, previously buttered and floured .
Press well the bottom and the edges , remove the excess dough , then place again in the refrigerator for about 10 minutes. Then prick the base of the tartlets, add Nutella up to the edge.
With the leftover shortcrust pastry, you can make decorations, like the classic lattices , or little stars or flowers. Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 15 minutes (320°F for 5-8 minutes if using a convection oven). Once baked , take out the Nutella tartlets and let them cool on a rack, then remove them from the molds and serve them to your children as a delicious snack!
You can store the Nutella tartlets under a glass dome for 1-2 days. You can freeze the shortcrust pastry for about 1 month and thaw it in the refrigerator when needed.
Want to make the filling even richer? You can add hazelnut crumbs, or if you prefer, you can fill some with your children's favorite jam!

