name:
Savory charlotte
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 3cups(350 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)- to grate
Whole milk: ½cup(125 ml)
Eggs: 2- medium
Egg yolks: 1
Butter: 0.67cup(150 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(4 g)
Water: 1cup(250 ml)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Leeks: 2
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1spoonful- to grate
Fresh liquid cream: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.1oz(4 g)
Olive oil: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 5.3oz(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.7tbsp(25 ml)
Gelatine: ½tsp(2 g)
Prague cooked ham: 4slices
Poppy seeds: to taste
Basil: to taste
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the savory charlotte, start by preparing the brioche bread: sift the flour into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. Add the sugar , grated nutmeg, grated Parmesan , and the dry yeast. Run the mixer at medium speed and also incorporate the liquids: the milk and water at room temperature.
Beat the eggs with a fork and add them to the dough little by little , continuing to mix. When the ingredients have gathered well around the paddle, stop the mixer, replace the paddle with the dough hook, and start the machine again; add the salt and the softened butter at room temperature in pieces, a little at a time , waiting for one piece to be absorbed before adding another. Let the dough knead with the hook until it is smooth and homogeneous.
Transfer the dough to a floured surface and work it into a ball shape. Place it in a large bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise for 30 minutes in the oven turned off with the light on. Take the dough, which will have doubled in size , and divide it into two parts , one weighing 650 grams
which you will shape into a ball, then place it in a greased and parchment-lined mold with a diameter of 7 inches and a height of 4 inches, like a panettone mold, cover with plastic wrap and leave it to rise for 2 hours in the oven turned off with the light on. Roll out the remaining dough into a rectangular sheet , roll it up from the shorter side to create a loaf with the seam side down .
Grease and line with parchment paper a loaf pan measuring 10x4 inches and place the dough loaf inside, cover with transparent plastic wrap and let it rise for two hours in the oven turned off with the light on. Meanwhile, start preparing the filling creams: remove the outer part of the leeks, wash them, and thinly slice the leeks , set aside some strands from the tender part to garnish the charlotte. Stew them with a little oil in a pan with the lid on
until they are soft : it will take about 30 minutes. Let them cool and then place them in a blender with ricotta , 1 tablespoon of Parmesan, a pinch of salt, and pepper. Blend the ingredients to obtain a smooth cream , pass it through a sieve to make it more velvety and transfer it to a bowl.
Meanwhile, soak 3 grams of gelatin (for the leek cream) in one bowl with cold water and 1 gram of gelatin (for the ham cream) in another, for at least 10 minutes . After the required time, drain the 3 grams of gelatin sheets, squeeze them well and dissolve them in 50 ml of warm cream , stirring until the gelatin is completely melted. Then add the mixture to the ricotta cream
stir with a spoon, then sieve the cream with a strainer to make it more velvety, cover with plastic wrap in contact : place the cream in the refrigerator to set and move on to the ham cream: in the blender put ricotta, slices of cooked ham, salt, a drizzle of olive oil, nutmeg, and pepper . Blend everything to obtain a smooth cream, then sift it and collect it in a bowl .
Drain the remaining gelatin sheets, squeeze them well, and dissolve them in 50 ml of warm cream . Add the mixture to the ham cream , stir carefully, and cover with plastic wrap: place in the refrigerator to set both creams for at least two hours. Meanwhile, take the risen doughs, brush the cake with beaten egg
and the loaf cake and bake them in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 30 minutes (the loaf cake) and 40 minutes (the cake) or in a convection oven at 320°F for 20-30 minutes. You can bake them together and remove the loaf cake first. Once baked, remove the doughs from the oven and let them cool (29-30).
Cut the top of the round base to have a flat surface, then divide the round brioche bread into 3 layers as if it were a sponge cake (for more details, see the How to cut Sponge Cake ). Retrieve the creams, transfer them into two separate disposable pastry bags without a nozzle , and fill the brioche bread by making concentric circles starting from the outer edge
alternating flavors between layers ; with the remaining cream, also cover the entire surface and edge. Place the charlotte in the refrigerator; meanwhile, unmold the loaf-shaped dough, cut the surface to even out the shape, and cut off the crust to make slices 0.4 inches thick lengthwise . From these, cut rectangles about 0.6x0.8 inches .
You should obtain about 20 slices to toast in a pan with a little oil on both sides , then cut the slices in half and set them aside . Now garnish the charlotte: cut small triangles from the ham slices ,
roll them to create little roses . Retrieve the charlotte from the refrigerator and decorate it with the toasted brioche bread slices arranged around the perimeter next to each other and distribute the roses on the surface, alternating with dollops of cream and basil leaves. Arrange the reserved leek strips in the center and finally sprinkle with poppy seeds. For a final elegant touch: wrap the charlotte with a satin ribbon . Your savory charlotte is ready to be served.
Store the savory charlotte in the refrigerator for a couple of days, it is possible to freeze the charlotte or just the brioche bread if you've used fresh ingredients.
As an alternative to Prague cooked ham, you can use prosciutto or bresaola. Don't throw away the leftover brioche bread but use it to make tasty sandwiches. If you use fresh brewer's yeast instead of the dry one, increase the amount to 12 grams.

