name:
Hazelnut and Cocoa Pastiera
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(230 g)
Nut flour: ¾cup(70 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(140 g)
Butter: 4oz(115 g)- cold from the fridge
Hazelnut paste: 2tbsp(30 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2tbsp(10 g)
Eggs: 1
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Pastiera wheat: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: 1 ¾cup(350 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 1.75oz(50 g)
Citron: 1.8oz(50 g)
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 ml)
Orange blossom water: 5tsp(25 ml)
Eggs: 3
Lemon peel: 1- untreated
Orange peel: 1- untreated

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + the time for the crust to set in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the cocoa and hazelnut pastiera, start with the cocoa shortcrust pastry: pour the sifted flour, powdered sugar, and cold butter from the fridge into pieces into the mixer ; run it to create a sandy mixture, then add the hazelnut flour and run the blades again. Transfer the obtained mixture onto a work surface and create the classic fountain shape: place the egg , vanilla bean seeds, and salt in the center.
Then also add the hazelnut paste and start kneading , until you get a compact and smooth consistency. Sprinkle the shortcrust dough with the sifted bitter cocoa .
Work the dough again to mix in the cocoa , then wrap the shortcrust dough in plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator to firm up for at least an hour. Meanwhile, prepare the filling: place the chocolate chips in the freezer (this way they won't sink to the bottom when the pastiera is cooked), while in a saucepan, heat the milk over low heat and melt the butter in it ;
also grate part of the zest from an untreated lemon , add the cooked wheat and stir with a spatula : cook until you obtain a thick and quite firm cream. Once the wheat cream is ready, pour it into a large bowl and let it cool.
At this point, place the sifted ricotta in the mixer to which you will also add the remaining lemon zest ; also add the eggs and sugar. Split open and scrape the seeds from a vanilla pod using the blade of a knife
Pour them into the mixer along with the orange blossom water , candied orange peels, and citron peels (17-18).
Lastly, also add the now lukewarm wheat cream ; blend everything to obtain a homogeneous and creamy mixture ; transfer it into a bowl and set it aside covered with plastic wrap.
Retrieve the shortcrust dough and roll it out with a rolling pin to obtain a disc about 1/4 inch thick. Roll it onto the rolling pin and place it on a 11-inch diameter tart pan previously buttered and lined with parchment paper . Make the shortcrust pastry adhere perfectly to the bottom and sides, then trim the edge with a smooth pastry wheel
and pour the cream inside . With your fingers, adjust the edge to align it with the level of the filling . Retrieve the chocolate chips (you can lightly flour them before adding them to the pastiera) and distribute them on the surface .
With the excess shortcrust pastry, create strips about 1.5-2 cm wide with a fluted pastry wheel and lay them on the pastiera to create the classic lattice pattern . You can bake the pastiera in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 50 minutes (320°F for 40 minutes). Once cooked, take it out and let it cool completely , then remove it from the pan and serve your cocoa and hazelnut pastiera!
Store the hazelnut and cocoa pastiera in the refrigerator for a maximum of 2-3 days. The pastiera can be frozen raw and thawed as needed in the refrigerator before baking.
For another variation of the base, try replacing the hazelnut flour with almond flour! Meanwhile, for a "glossy" effect, you can brush the surface of the pastiera with an egg white before baking!

