name:
Risotto with shrimp, zucchini and zucchini flowers
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Shrimps: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to be cleaned)
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(260 g)
Zucchini flowers: 12
Shallot: 1
Anchovies in oil: 1
Vegetable broth: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
White wine: 3.3tbsp(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Lemon juice: 1 ⅓tbsp(20 g)
Lemon peel: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare risotto with shrimp, zucchini, and zucchini flowers, first How to clean shrimp : remove the head and shell , being careful to set aside the scraps . Cut the flesh into small pieces and keep them chilled.
Place the scraps in a jug, add a ladle of vegetable broth and blend until smooth .
Strain the mixture through a fine mesh strainer to obtain a smooth and homogeneous bisque . Clean and chop the shallot .
Trim and dice the zucchini into small 1 cm (0.4 inch) cubes . In a saucepan, heat a drizzle of oil and sauté the chopped shallot with the anchovies until they are completely melted. Add the zucchini and cook for about 2 minutes, stirring often .
Add the rice to the saucepan , salt , and toast it for a couple of minutes, stirring well. Deglaze with wine and let the alcohol evaporate. At this point, begin to moisten the rice with the hot shrimp bisque, one ladle at a time .
Stir frequently and cook the risotto. Meanwhile, clean the zucchini flowers by removing the stem and inner pistil , then cut the petals into strips .
Chop the basil as well . Once the risotto is ready, remove it from the heat and add the ricotta and shrimp .
Season with pepper, then add the basil and lemon zest . Finally, also add the zucchini flowers , keeping some aside for decoration.
Finish with a few drops of lemon juice and a drizzle of oil, then mix well to combine . Serve the risotto with shrimp, zucchini, and zucchini flowers immediately, garnishing the plates with the reserved flowers !
We recommend consuming the risotto with shrimp, zucchini, and zucchini flowers immediately.
Alternatively, you can cream the risotto with stracchino for a creamy and delicate consistency, or with a spoonful of spreadable cheese like robiola or fresh goat cheese for a stronger flavor.

