name:
Double Chocolate and Orange Cake
ingredients:
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(75 g)
Potato starch: 0.67cup(75 g)
Eggs: 5
Orange peel: 1
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(130 g)
Potato starch: 0.4cup(50 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(30 g)
Honey: 3tsp(15 g)
Eggs: 3
Egg yolks: 8
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(200 ml)
Sugar: 1.4cups(280 g)
Dark chocolate: 5.25oz(150 g)
Cornstarch: 1cup(130 g)
Egg yolks: 12
Powdered sugar: 2cups(250 g)
Candied orange: to taste
Water: to taste- hot

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 1 h 25 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time of the creams

instructions:
To prepare the double chocolate and orange cake, start with the sponge cake bases. For the white one, carefully separate the yolks from the whites and place the yolks in the food processor along with half the amount of sugar to whip them with the beaters . You should get a light and fluffy mixture and transfer it to a bowl. Then whip the egg whites and when they are white, add the remaining sugar to whip them to a glossy consistency .
When you have achieved a soft consistency, turn off the processor and add the egg whites to the yolks, gently mixing with a spatula from top to bottom so as not to deflate the mixture . Sift the cornstarch and flour into the bowl .
Grate the zest of an untreated orange and mix the batter again. Transfer it into a 9.5-inch diameter cake pan lined with parchment paper and bake the sponge cake in a preheated static oven at 356°F (320°F for 30 minutes if using a fan oven) for 35 minutes. While the white sponge cake bakes, prepare the cocoa one: In the food processor, pour the 3 whole eggs, the honey
incorporate the sugar and start working the ingredients . When the mixture becomes light and airy, add the yolks , continue working the mixture with the beaters for a few more minutes, then pour it gently into a bowl.
Add the sifted flour, cornstarch, and cocoa powder . Mix with a spatula from the bottom to the top gently without deflating the mixture. Butter and line with parchment paper a 9.5-inch diameter pan, pour the obtained mixture inside and bake it in a static oven at 356°F for 45 minutes (320°F for 40 minutes if using a fan oven). Once cooked, remove the sponge cakes from the oven and let them cool slightly, then unmold them and place them on two racks to cool completely .
In the meantime, focus on the cream: pour the eggs and sugar into the food processor bowl and start whipping with the beaters until you obtain a light mixture. Add the sifted cornstarch and gradually add the milk and cream (17-18). When everything is well mixed, change the beater to the rubber beater, set the processor temperature to 212°F, and cook for 6-7 minutes,
until it thickens . Pour the still hot cream into two bowls: in one, add the grated zest of an orange and cover with cling film in contact with the surface to let it cool at room temperature.
With the blender, coarsely chop the dark chocolate (22-23) and melt it in the other bowl with the still hot custard .
Also cover the chocolate custard with cling film in contact, so you'll have both creams ready for filling . From the now-cold sponge cakes, cut out discs: 3 from the dark one and 2 from the light one, to form 5 layers. Place the first dark disc on the serving plate and fill with a layer of custard using a piping bag with a star nozzle .
Then place a light sponge cake disc and a layer of chocolate custard using another piping bag with a star nozzle . Cover with a layer of chocolate sponge cake and continue layering the creams and sponge until finishing with the dark sponge cake.
In a small bowl, pour the powdered sugar and gradually add hot water, mixing until you get a smooth and fluid consistency . Pour the glaze over the cake starting from the center so it gradually drips down the sides. Decorate with candied orange peel and serve your double chocolate and orange cake!
Store the cake in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. The bases can be prepared in advance and stored under a glass dome for 1 day. They can be frozen once cooked and thawed in the refrigerator when needed. The two creams can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for 1-2 days.
To make the filling even more indulgent, you could add layers of chocolate chips. If the white sponge cake turns out to be too high, you can cut another disc, reduce it to cubes and add it between the cream layers!

