name:
Savory profiteroles with Gruyère cream
ingredients:
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(65 g)
Water: ½cup(100 ml)
Eggs: 2- medium
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.42cup(100 ml)
Dill: to taste
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 ml)
Gruyere cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- to grate
Type 00 flour: ⅛cup(20 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Poppy seeds: to taste- black

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To make the savory profiteroles, start with the Choux pastry (pâte à choux) : in a saucepan, pour the water and butter and melt it over high heat, stirring with a wooden spoon; you can also add a pinch of salt . When it has melted and the water is boiling, pour in the flour (you can sift it with a sieve) and lower the heat.
Mix quickly with a whisk to prevent lumps and cook for another 2-3 minutes on low heat. When the mixture starts to solidify more, switch to stirring with the wooden spoon until it detaches from the sides and creates a white patina on the bottom . At this point, remove the dough from the heat, pour it into the bowl of a stand mixer, and attach the paddle attachment. Add one egg at a time , waiting for the first to be incorporated before adding the second.
Once the eggs are incorporated, stop the mixer and pour the resulting dough into a pastry bag with a plain nozzle . Take a baking sheet and grease it with a little butter to better adhere the parchment paper; then create the choux pastry mounds spaced a few inches apart . Bake the puffs in a preheated static oven for 15 minutes at 428°F (220°C), avoiding opening the oven during cooking. After the first 15 minutes, lower the temperature to 374°F (190°C) and bake the choux pastry for another 10 minutes. If you want to bake your puffs in a convection oven, preheat it to 347°F (175°C) and bake the puffs for 30 minutes. At this point, turn off the oven and leave the puffs inside for another 30 minutes with the door slightly open (place a wooden spoon between the door and the oven); this will help to dry the inside well, then take them out of the oven and set them aside.
While the profiteroles are baking, focus on the ham cream (you can make 3 different ricotta-based creams: with ham, with salmon, and flavored with a mix of herbs). In a mixer, pour the ricotta, dill , and slices of cooked ham . Blend everything to obtain a smooth cream .
Separately, whip the cream with an electric mixer and gently fold it into the ham cream, mixing with a spatula delicately from top to bottom so as not to deflate it. Set aside the obtained cream : cover it with plastic wrap and store it in the refrigerator. Focus on the Gruyère cream that will be used to cover the profiteroles: in a saucepan, pour the butter and melt it on low heat; then add the sifted flour gradually ,
mix with the whisk and create the roux over low heat . Then pour in the milk and stir everything continuously ; adjust the salt and when the cream is thick, add the grated Gruyère .
Let the cheese melt, always stirring with the whisk , and turn off the heat . Now take back the completely cooled puffs and create a small hole in the flat part of the puffs, to fill them with the creams using pastry bags ; if you have made three different creams, you can fill 10 with the ham filling, 10 with the salmon, and 10 with the herbs.
Arrange the puffs in a pyramid shape, starting from the wide base, decorating the spaces between them with cream tufts using a pastry bag with a star nozzle and with the Gruyère cream until you create a pyramid. Further decorate with poppy seeds if you prefer and serve your savory profiteroles with Gruyère cream !
Store the filled and covered profiteroles with Gruyère cream in the refrigerator for up to 1 day. The puffs can be prepared in advance and stored in a tin box for 3-4 days. The creams can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days covered with plastic wrap; the Gruyère cream can also be stored in the refrigerator. Freezing is not recommended.
You can unleash your creativity and make savory creams as you prefer; how about a tuna or zucchini variant, always blending the ricotta with the ingredients you choose!

