name:
Chicken fajitas with smoked bacon cubes
ingredients:
Flour tortillas: 8
Chicken breast: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Edam cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Smoked pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)- diced
Red peppers: 1
Yellow peppers: 1
Fresh scallion: 4
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste
Sour cream: to taste
Lime: 1
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp
Green Peperoncino: ½tsp
Parsley: to taste- (to chop)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 2 h for marinating

instructions:
To prepare chicken fajitas with smoked bacon cubes: start with the chicken: feel the breast well to identify any remaining bones and cartilage and remove them with a knife. Cut the chicken into strips about 0.4 inches thick and arrange them in a large baking dish. Prepare the marinade: grate the zest of a lime and squeeze out the juice .
Finely chop the fresh parsley . Drizzle the chicken pieces with lime juice and a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil .
Add the sweet paprika , chili powder , lime zest, and chopped parsley. Finish with a pinch of salt, mix everything well with a spoon , cover with plastic wrap, and let it marinate in the fridge for at least 2 hours.
Move on to the vegetables: wash the peppers under running water, divide them in half, and remove the stem, seeds, and inner filaments , then cut them into strips about 0.4 inches wide . Clean the spring onions, cutting off the base and the more fibrous green part, then slice them .
After the marinating time, heat a large pan with a drizzle of oil, sauté the spring onions and peppers over high heat , being careful not to burn them, until they are tender; it will take about 8 minutes. Add the smoked bacon cubes and let them brown well. Also, add the chicken to the pan .
Cook for about 10 minutes, stirring gently ; when the chicken turns white, adjust the salt and turn off the heat. Grate the cheese to accompany the tortillas with a large-hole grater .
Now take a tortilla and fill it with meat, vegetables , and cheese. If you like, you can enrich it with a tablespoon of sour cream. Roll it up and wrap the lower end with a piece of aluminum foil so you can easily eat it with your hands . You can divide the tortilla in half and serve it in 2 convenient portions. The chicken fajitas with smoked bacon cubes are ready to be enjoyed!
Chicken fajitas with smoked bacon cubes should be consumed immediately. If there is leftover filling, store it in the fridge for a couple of days and heat it before serving.
Freezing is not recommended.
For a more flavorful marinade, add the spices you prefer and, if you like, enrich it with a bit of light beer or tequila to give the meat an extra taste boost.
If you don't like chicken, you can opt for beef or pork, depending on your taste.
You can enrich the filling with vegetables such as eggplants and zucchinis.
Finally, to serve the fajitas, decide if you prefer to roll them or fold them in half, based on the presentation you like best!

