name:
Orange and Chocolate Baskets
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2.1cups(250 g)
Butter: ½cup(125 g)
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Orange peel: 1
Vanilla bean: 1- the seeds
Dark chocolate: 4.5oz(125 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(125 g)
Butter: ½tbsp(10 g)
Candied orange: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the orange and chocolate baskets, start with the shortcrust pastry (for best results, consult the Shortcrust pastry recipe). In a food processor equipped with blades, add the sifted flour and butter , run the machine for a few moments, just enough to sandy the mixture . Transfer it to a pastry board, form the classic fountain in the center of which you will pour the vanilla bean seeds, powdered sugar, grated orange zest ,
the egg yolks ; knead quickly by hand until you get a compact and elastic dough. Flatten it and cover it with plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator to set for half an hour.
After the resting time, take the shortcrust pastry, roll it out on a floured pastry board with a rolling pin, until you get a sheet 1/8 inch thick . Cut out circles of dough about 4 inches in diameter with a pastry cutter , transfer the dough into 6 greased and floured tartlet molds with a diameter of 2 3/4 inches, adhere the pastry to the mold, and trim the excess with a knife . With the leftover scraps, you can make delicious biscuits!
Once you have covered all the molds , cut out 6 circles of parchment paper with a diameter of about 4 inches, line the bottom of the molds with the paper circles , and place weights for blind baking inside (or you can also use dried legumes). Bake the tartlets for 10 minutes in a static preheated oven at 340°F (or in a fan oven at 300°F for about 8 minutes).
Once cooked, take them out of the oven and let them cool before unmolding . Now take care of the filling Ganache cream cream: chop the dark chocolate with a knife , heat the cream in a saucepan over low heat ,
add the butter and let it simmer, then turn off the heat and incorporate the chopped chocolate and stir with a whisk until it is completely melted . Let the ganache cool slightly.
Fill the tartlets with the dark chocolate cream , then place the leftover cream in a bowl under which you will position another bowl full of ice . Whip the cream with electric whisks
until it becomes light . At that point, transfer it to a piping bag with a star nozzle and garnish the surface of the tartlets with dollops of ganache . To finish, decorate with candied orange peels . The orange and chocolate baskets are ready to be enjoyed!
Store the orange and chocolate baskets in the refrigerator for 3-4 days. You can separately store the baked baskets without filling under a glass dome and the ganache cream in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap, be sure to whip it with the whisks to soften it before using. The shortcrust pastry can be frozen wrapped in plastic wrap for 1 month. If needed, thaw it completely in the refrigerator.
As an alternative to ganache, you can also use citrus jam or marmalade as filling to add a fresh and fruity note.

