name:
Beer risotto with mortadella and zucchini flowers
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Blond beer: 3.4oz(100 ml)
Mortadella: 3.5oz(100 g)- a single piece
Zucchini flowers: 3cups(90 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- to be grated
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Onions: ½
Lemon peel: ½- untreated
Fresh ginger: 1tsp- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Wild fennel: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Water: 8 ½cups(2 l)
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
Parsley: 1tuft
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the beer risotto with mortadella and zucchini flowers, first prepare the vegetable broth (you can consult the procedure by clicking on the Cooking School: Vegetable broth , respecting the doses of this recipe). Then finely chop the aromatic herbs , peel and chop the onion , then grate the fresh ginger .
Then grate the lemon zest as well , cut the mortadella into cubes ; finally clean the zucchini flowers: rinse them gently under running water, then pat them dry with a cloth, then open them gently and remove the inner pistil and the stem.
Then cut them into thin strips . In a large and rather deep pan, pour the oil and 1.5 tbsps of butter to melt over low heat. Then add the chopped onion and stir to soften.
At this point, pour in the rice to toast it, stirring with a wooden spoon . Then deglaze with the beer and let it evaporate. Next, start adding a ladle of vegetable broth at a time , waiting for it to be absorbed before proceeding with another.
Halfway through cooking, add the mortadella cubes , the lemon zest , and the grated ginger .
Add the chopped aromatic herbs to the risotto as well . Cook the risotto by gradually adding vegetable broth, then at the end of cooking, turn off the heat and add the zucchini flowers (17-18)
stir in the remaining butter and the grated Parmesan cheese . You can serve the beer risotto with zucchini flowers piping hot !
It is recommended to consume the risotto freshly made. You can store it in the refrigerator in an airtight container for a maximum of one day.
Zucchini flowers are beautiful; if you want, you can leave them whole: they will be less blended but more visible! If you want to enhance the beer aroma, you can use a double malt or red beer!

