name:
Quick Easter Dove Cake with Red Fruits
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Water: 2tsp(30 ml)
Brewer's yeast: 0.6tsp(3 g)
Manitoba flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Sugar: 6tbsp(75 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- at room temperature
Whole milk: 3.7tbsp(55 ml)
Condensed milk: 3tbsp(50 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Vanilla bean: 1
Lemon peel: 1- unprocessed
Orange peel: 1- unprocessed
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Manitoba flour: ⅓cup(50 g)
Butter: 2.65oz(75 g)- at room temperature
Dried berries: 2.8oz(80 g)
Orange juice: 1
Almond slices: to taste
Granulated sugar: to taste
Peeled almonds: ½cup(75 g)
Brown sugar: 3tbsp(40 g)
Condensed milk: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Fioretto corn flour: 2tbsp(15 g)
Cornstarch: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Egg whites: 1

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + resting times in the various dough stages

instructions:
To prepare the dove cake with red fruits, start with the starter dough: in a small bowl, pour the sifted flour, the dehydrated yeast (or 9 g of fresh yeast) and the lukewarm water. Mix everything with your hands or a spoon, then transfer the mixture onto a work surface and handle it to form a dough ball. Let it rise in a small bowl covered with cling film for 1 hour in a turned-off oven with the light on.
After the necessary time, it will have doubled in volume, so place it in a stand mixer (or a bowl for hand mixing), attach the paddle attachment, and add the lukewarm milk (previously warmed), sugar , and flour . Start mixing, then add the egg ,
the seeds from a vanilla pod and the zest of untreated orange and lemon . Add the condensed milk to the dough and continue running the mixer.
When the ingredients are well combined, replace the paddle with the dough hook and start adding the room temperature butter in pieces , one at a time, waiting for the previous piece to be incorporated before continuing. Once all the butter is incorporated, stop the mixer , oil a work surface
and briefly work the dough , shaping it into a sphere. Place it in a bowl, cover with cling film , and let it rise in a turned-off oven with the light on for 2 hours. While the dough is rising, prepare the almond glaze: in a mixer, place the peeled almonds and brown sugar to finely chop them.
Then pour the mixture obtained into the bowl of a stand mixer and attach the whisk, adding the egg white . Add the cornmeal and cornstarch gradually.
Finally, add the condensed milk . Once finished, pour the glaze into a bowl and cover it with cling film in contact until ready to use. Meanwhile, soak the red fruits: squeeze the orange juice and pour it over the fruits : let them soak while you continue the preparation.
Take back the dough that will have doubled in volume and place it in the stand mixer bowl. Add the sifted flour, the egg , and start kneading with the dough hook. Gradually add the room temperature butter , waiting for one piece to be incorporated before adding another .
Finally, add 3/4 of the drained and squeezed red fruits , then continue kneading until, when you stop the mixer, the dough falls in ribbons . Then remove it from the mixer, divide it into two parts: one about 470 g, which you can roll out into a rectangle
and roll it starting from one of the shorter ends . Then place it in the widest part of a 750 g dove cake mold . The remaining dough should weigh about 255 g, divide it into two equal parts ,
and place them in the two empty side parts . Garnish with the almond glaze using a spoon and let it rise for 1 hour and 30 minutes in a turned-off oven with the light on. After the required time, finish garnishing the top of the dove cake with sliced almonds, sugar grains, and red fruits .
When you've finished bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for 50 minutes (285°F for about 40 minutes if using a convection oven), then cover with aluminum for another 20 minutes (10 if using a convection oven). When the dove cake with red fruits is cooked, take it out of the oven and to release moisture, turn it upside down keeping it suspended with supports (you can use two long knitting needles, two pots, or two rolls of paper towels): we used polystyrene supports and metal rods. Once cooled , you can enjoy your quick dove cake with red fruits!
Store the quick dove cake with red fruits in a freezer bag for 1-2 days. You can freeze the dove cake dough after the last rise and thaw it in the refrigerator when needed to let it come to room temperature before placing it in the mold.
If you want to make the dove cake even more fragrant and aromatic, after the two-hour rise of the second dough (photo 14) you can place it in the refrigerator for 12 hours. With this extra step, the aromas will distribute better, and the dough will gain more flavor!

