name:
Easter tart with ricotta and chocolate
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(360 g)
Butter: 0.8cup(180 g)
Condensed milk: ½cup(140 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Vanilla bean: 1
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Condensed milk: ½cup(150 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 3.5oz(100 g)
Vanilla bean: 1- the seeds
Orange peel: 1
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the pastry

instructions:
To make the Easter tart with ricotta and chocolate, start with the shortcrust pastry: pour the flour, a pinch of salt, and the butter cut into pieces, just taken out of the fridge, so it's still cold, into a mixer . Blend everything until you get a sandy and floury mixture and place it on a work surface. Form the classic fountain shape in the center of the mixture and add the seeds from the vanilla bean and the condensed milk .
Then quickly work the mixture by hand until you obtain a compact and homogeneous dough; wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest for about 30 minutes in the refrigerator or until it is firm; in the meantime, prepare the tart filling: sift the cow's ricotta through a fine-mesh sieve so that it is smooth and collect it in a large bowl,
add the seeds from the vanilla bean, the orange zest, the condensed milk , and finally the chocolate chips . Mix with a spoon to combine the ingredients. Meanwhile, take the shortcrust pastry, place it on a floured work surface, and roll out a sheet about 0.4 inches thick with a diameter of 10 inches ,
wrap the dough around the rolling pin and unroll it onto a 9.5-inch diameter mold greased and lined with parchment paper . Press the sheet into the mold and trim the excess edges with a pastry wheel . From the leftover dough, cut strips about half an inch wide
Pour the cream into the mold and level the surface with the back of a spoon . Arrange the strips on the surface of the tart, crisscrossing them to create a lattice pattern, brush the tart with beaten egg , and bake it in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 1 hour (or in a convection oven at 320°F for 50 minutes). Once baked, remove the Easter tart with ricotta and chocolate from the oven and let it cool slightly before serving .
Store the Easter tart with ricotta and chocolate in the refrigerator for a couple of days. It can be frozen if you used fresh ingredients.
For the filling, you can replace the chocolate chips with pine nuts or with raisins softened in orange juice or liquor such as brandy or Grand Marnier.

