name:
Easter meringue cake with strawberries and chocolate
ingredients:
Egg whites: 1cup(250 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 2.1cups(250 g)
Cream of tartar: ⅓tsp(1.5 g)
Strawberries: 4cups(600 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Condensed milk: ¾cup(200 ml)
Dark chocolate chips: 3.5oz(100 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.5oz(16 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Strawberries: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 3 h
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the Easter meringue cake with strawberries and chocolate, draw an egg-shaped outline on 3 sheets of parchment paper with a pencil measuring about 11 inches in the longest part and 8 inches in the narrowest part . Grease 3 baking trays that can hold it and adhere the parchment paper with the drawing facing the trays themselves. In a small bowl, place the granulated sugar, powdered sugar, and cream of tartar . Separate the yolks from the egg whites ;
and beat the latter at medium speed with a stand mixer or beaters, and when they start to turn white, slowly add the sugars in a shower continue until the mixture becomes well stiff and structured . Transfer the mixture to a piping bag with a plain nozzle of diameter 0.4 inches
and squeeze the meringue onto a tray following the egg outline in a concentric manner (like forming a spiral) until the entire outline is filled . Also form the other two outlines, keeping in mind that one of the three can be further decorated with embroidery and decorative designs because it will be the final “lid” of the cake. With the leftover mixture, form small meringues on another baking tray lined with parchment paper . Bake all the meringues in a static oven at 212°F for about two and a half hours; be careful not to let the meringues color (otherwise lower the temperature to 176°F). Occasionally open the oven door to let out the moisture that forms during baking, and when the meringues are cooked, turn off the oven and let them cool inside with the door ajar (you can wedge a wooden spoon in the opening to keep the oven slightly open).
Meanwhile, prepare the cream: wash and cut the strawberries into pieces, place them in a pan over very low heat and let them soften until they are mushy, then blend them in a mixer until you get a sauce and let it cool.
Soak the gelatin in very cold water for 10 minutes or until it has softened. Pour the condensed milk into a small saucepan , heat it, and when it is very hot, turn off the heat and add the softened, drained, and squeezed gelatin ; stir to dissolve it.
Let the mixture cool and then incorporate it into the blended strawberries , mix with a whisk to combine the cream , cover with plastic wrap, and place in the refrigerator to cool. Whip the cream with a mixer
then when the strawberry and condensed milk mixture is cold, add it to the cream, mixing gently from top to bottom with a spatula , add the chocolate chips (20-21), then put everything in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap.
When the meringues are cooked (white and crispy), remove them from the oven, let them cool, and then transfer one to a serving plate. Transfer the cream into a piping bag with a plain nozzle with a diameter of 0.4 inches. Fill the first layer with half of the strawberry cream , crumble half of the meringues over it (23-24), and cover with the other meringue outline. Fill that one in the same way,
cover with the decorated meringue and finish by squeezing some tufts of cream , which you will decorate with chocolate chips in the center . Finally, garnish the Easter meringue cake with strawberries and chocolate with some strawberries and keep it in the fridge until serving time.
Store the meringue cake in the freezer and take it out an hour before serving.
Instead of chocolate chips, you can enrich the cream with strawberry pieces or white chocolate chips. With the leftover yolks, you can make a tasty custard.

