name:
Easter Egg Cake
ingredients:
Butter: 0.9lb(200 g)- softened
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Sugar: 0.8cup(150 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Condensed milk: ⅓cup(100 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 10tbsp(50 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Eggs: 4
Baking powder: 1 ¾tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Raspberries: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Condensed milk: 4tbsp(60 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Dark chocolate: 8.8oz(250 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Raspberries: 16
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Egg whites: 1

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the Easter egg cake, start with the base: in a stand mixer bowl fitted with beaters, add the softened butter cut into pieces and the sugar and cream them together. Then add the eggs and condensed milk .
Melt the dark chocolate in a double boiler (or microwave), let it cool slightly, and pour it into the mixture . Continue beating and add the milk at room temperature slowly . In a bowl, sift the flour, baking powder, and unsweetened cocoa powder .
Gradually add the dry ingredients to the mixture, using a spoon . Butter and flour the egg-shaped mold, 11 inches long and 8 inches wide at its widest point , and pour the cake batter inside ; bake it in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 60 minutes (or in a fan oven at 320°F for about 50 minutes).
Once baked, take it out of the oven and let it cool slightly, then remove it from the mold and let it cool completely on a wire rack . Meanwhile, prepare the cream: in a small bowl, soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for at least 10 minutes .
In a saucepan, add the previously washed raspberries and sugar : cook them over low heat, stirring until they become a puree. Pass the still warm coulis through a food mill , then to make it even finer, strain it with a fine mesh sieve .
Place the drained and squeezed gelatin sheets into the lukewarm coulis and stir with a teaspoon to dissolve them. In a bowl, gather the fresh liquid cream and add the condensed milk ; whip the ingredients with beaters to whip the mixture.
Add the coulis where you dissolved the gelatin , now cold, and mix with a spatula from top to bottom to keep the cream from deflating. Pour the raspberry cream into a shallow, wide dish and cover with cling film in contact . Place it in the fridge to set until ready to use.
Lastly, prepare the ganache: in a saucepan, pour the cream, heat it, and when it reaches a boil, add the butter in pieces to melt it . Then add the dark chocolate and stir with a wooden spoon to melt it ; then pour the mixture into a bowl and cover with cling film in contact, to cool and set the ganache.
When the cake is well cooled, cut it in half horizontally to create two discs ; place one half on a serving platter and fill it with the raspberry cream using a disposable piping bag with a very wide tip . Then cover with the other disc .
Now prepare the icing: place the egg white in a bowl with a pinch of salt, start whipping it with beaters and when it's white, gradually add the powdered sugar , continuing to whip. Once you have a fluid and smooth mixture, place it in a piping bag with a very small tip .
At this point, you can cover the cake with the now cooled chocolate ganache : spread an even layer over the entire cake using a spatula . Then put the leftover ganache in a piping bag with a star tip and decorate the entire perimeter of the cake with swirls .
Decorate the upper perimeter with the icing , while the surface with ganache swirls and raspberries . Serve your Easter egg cake as a dessert for Easter lunch!
You can store the Easter egg cake in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. You can freeze the cake base and thaw it when needed. The ganache and raspberry cream can be stored in the refrigerator covered with cling film for 1-2 days.
You can also make the filling cream in other variations, like mixed berries. If you prefer a sweeter taste, you can use milk chocolate to make the coating ganache!

