name:
Almond and Custard Pastiera
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Butter: 6.7oz(190 g)- cold
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Almond flour: 2.5oz(70 g)
Condensed milk: ¼cup(60 g)
Eggs: 1
Egg yolks: 1
Orange peel: 1
Almond flavoring: 1tsp
Whole milk: 1.6cups(375 ml)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 2tbsp(15 g)
Egg yolks: 4
Pastiera wheat: 1.1cups(250 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ¾cup(175 g)
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: 6.2oz(175 g)
Candied orange: 2.8oz(80 g)
Condensed milk: ¼cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 35 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + chilling the pastry in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the almond pastiera with custard, start with the pastry: in a food processor, place the sifted flour and the cold butter cut into pieces . Pulse to create a crumbly mixture, then place it in a bowl and add the almond flour , the sugar
and grate the zest of an untreated orange . Also add the almond extract , the whole egg, the yolk, and the condensed milk .
Quickly knead with your hands directly in the bowl and form a homogeneous and compact dough: you can wrap it in plastic wrap and let it firm up in the refrigerator for at least an hour. In the meantime, prepare the orange custard: in a large saucepan, pour the egg yolks, the sugar
and whisk them to a cream with a hand whisk ; sift the flour into the saucepan , grate the orange zest
and pour the milk slowly . Stir and place on low heat to cook and thicken the custard : it will be ready when lifting the whisk it holds its shape before falling back into the saucepan.
Place the custard in a small bowl covered with plastic wrap in contact and let it cool in the refrigerator . At this point, sieve the cow's milk ricotta and sheep's milk ricotta to make it creamier. Then pour it into the food processor along with the cooked wheat ,
the orange candied peels cut into cubes , the now cold custard, and the condensed milk . Pulse to blend all the ingredients and make a smooth and homogeneous mixture .
Now you can compose your almond pastiera with custard: take the pastry dough and roll it out on a lightly floured surface to make a disc about 1/4 inch thick . Butter and line with parchment paper an 11-inch diameter tart pan. Then roll the disc onto the rolling pin and gently unroll it onto the mold . Eliminate excess parts (you will use them for decoration) and press the pastry into the mold .
Pour the filling and level it with a spatula, then trim the edges with a smooth pastry cutter flush with the filling . Knead the pastry scraps and roll them out to make the classic strips 1/2 inch thick
to lay on the surface of the pastiera to form lattice patterns . Brush the pastiera with beaten egg and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 60 minutes (if using a convection oven, at 320°F for about 50 minutes). Once baked, let it warm up before removing from the mold and serving !
Store the almond pastiera with custard in the refrigerator for 2-3 days at most. The pastiera can be frozen raw and defrosted in the refrigerator before baking.
To add even more fragrance to this dessert, you can add a pinch of ground cinnamon before blending the filling in the mixer!

