name:
Artichoke lasagna with ricotta and capers
ingredients:
Thin egg Lasagne pasta: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Artichokes: 10
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Vegetable broth: 3mestoli
Parsley: 2spoonfuls- to chop
Garlic: 1clove
Lemons: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 3 ¼cups(800 g)
Caper berries: 0.7oz(20 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Thyme: 4sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
To prepare the artichoke lasagna with ricotta and capers, start with the How to clean artichokes : cut most of the stem and the tips off the artichokes. Then peel them until you reach the lighter leaves at the base and, using a vegetable peeler or a knife, clean the stem by removing the most fibrous part. As you prepare them, place them in a bowl filled with lemon water so they don't darken. Drain the artichokes, cut them in half
and remove the inner beard with a paring knife then finely chop them with a knife . In a large pan, lightly sauté the chopped garlic with a drizzle of oil .
Add the artichokes and cook them by adding 3 ladles of vegetable broth ; let the artichokes stew over moderate heat for a few minutes to soften them. Season with salt and pepper, and at the end of cooking, add the chopped parsley .
While the artichokes are cooking, prepare the ricotta cream: clean 20 g of caper blossoms by removing the stem , then finely chop them with a knife . Put the fresh ricotta in a mixer to blend it and make it creamier (alternatively, you can pass it several times through a fine-mesh sieve, using a spatula to help).
Collect it in a small bowl and add the vegetable broth , the grated Grana Padano , mix with a whisk to blend the ingredients and season with oil, salt, and pepper.
Mix again and pour the caper blossoms and thyme leaves into the cream. At this point, grease a 12x8 inch pan
and cover with a layer of ricotta cream , then lay a layer of lasagna on the bottom . Continue with a layer of ricotta cream and one of sautéed artichokes ;
continue alternating lasagna , ricotta cream, and artichokes until you finish the ingredients. You can decorate the surface with whole caper blossoms ; bake the lasagna in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 25 minutes (320°F for 15-20 minutes if using a convection oven). Once cooked, leave them in the turned-off oven for a few minutes so that the seasoning sets more, then take them out and serve the artichoke lasagna with ricotta and capers hot!
You can store the artichoke lasagna with ricotta and capers, covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for 1-2 days. They can be prepared the day before, kept in the fridge covered with plastic wrap, and cooked the next day. It is possible to freeze them, only if all fresh ingredients have been used, preferably raw: to cook them, simply thaw them in the refrigerator about 24 hours before and then bake them.
If you are not fond of capers, you can replace them with Taggiasca olives cut into rings to flavor the ricotta cream.

