name:
Lasagna with lamb ragout
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Lamb: 1.8lbs(800 g)- boneless
Cluster tomatoes: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Provola cheese: 10.6oz(300 g)
Red wine: 0.8cup(200 ml)
White onions: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 1sprig- to chop
Sage: 4leaves- to chop
Bay leaves: 2leaves- to chop
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Whole milk: 3 ⅛cups(750 ml)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(70 g)
Pecorino cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- to grate
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 2 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
To make lasagna with lamb ragout, start by removing the fat from the meat , then cut it into small cubes , place it in a bowl and add the olive oil
and the chopped herbs (sage, bay leaf, rosemary, and garlic). Cover with plastic wrap and let the meat marinate in the refrigerator for half an hour. In a large pan, heat a drizzle of olive oil, add the chopped onion and let it wilt over low heat for a few minutes,
add the drained marinated lamb cubes , brown the pieces for 10 minutes, then deglaze with the red wine and let it evaporate. Meanwhile, wash and dice the tomatoes ,
add them to the meat , salt and pepper, and continue cooking with the lid on for at least an hour . Meanwhile, prepare the béchamel: heat the milk in a saucepan and season with nutmeg.
In another saucepan, melt the butter, add the flour while whisking until the mixture thickens, then pour in the hot milk and, still whisking, incorporate the grated pecorino cheese .
Let the sauce thicken and then turn off the heat. At this point, the lamb ragout is ready , cut the provola cheese into cubes
and start assembling the lasagna: grease a 9x13 inch rectangular oven dish with olive oil , spread a layer of pecorino béchamel, distribute the pasta sheets , and top with the lamb ragout
and the provola cubes , cover with béchamel and continue in the same way, alternating the layers until all ingredients are used up. Finish the lasagna with a layer of ragout and béchamel and provola cubes. Bake the lasagna in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 30 minutes (or in a ventilated oven at 356°F for 20 minutes). Once cooked, remove your lasagna with lamb ragout from the oven , let them cool slightly, and then serve !
You can store lasagna with lamb ragout in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for 1-2 days. They can be prepared the day before, kept in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap, and cooked the following day. They can be frozen, but only if all fresh ingredients were used, preferably uncooked: to cook, simply thaw them in the refrigerator about 24 hours before and then bake.
If you do not like the strong flavor of pecorino, you can substitute the pecorino béchamel with a tasty parmesan cream.

