name:
Lasagna with asparagus, eggs, and shrimp
ingredients:
Thin egg Lasagne pasta: 18oz(500 g)
Shrimps: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Eggs: 4
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Asparagus: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Whole milk: 3 ⅛cups(750 ml)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Type 00 flour: ½cup(70 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
To prepare the lasagna with asparagus, eggs, and shrimp, start by washing the asparagus, trimming them to remove the white part, then peel them with a peeler until the stem is white, removing the fibrous green part . Transfer the asparagus to a special asparagus cooker filled with water . The tips of the asparagus, the most delicate part, should remain out of the water because they need to stay crunchy. Cook for about 5 minutes, then drain them and cut them into pieces, being careful to keep the tips whole .
Puree the asparagus pieces (excluding the tips) with an immersion blender , set aside the obtained cream . Now proceed with preparing the Béchamel sauce : heat the milk in a saucepan and flavor it with nutmeg ,
in another, melt the butter in pieces , add the flour and heat the mixture to create the roux, then incorporate the milk and stir with a whisk and continue cooking
until the sauce thickens , stirring occasionally. Then turn off the heat and add the asparagus cream to the béchamel and the grated Parmesan cheese .
Meanwhile, boil 4 eggs , to hard boil cook them for about 8 minutes from when the water starts to boil. Then shell them and cut them into slices .
Wash and shell the shrimp , cut the asparagus tips in half . Melt the butter in a pan, add the whole garlic clove, then sauté the asparagus tips and the shrimp for 5 minutes .
Now you can assemble the lasagna: drizzle a rectangular baking dish measuring about 8x12 inches with olive oil, spread a layer of asparagus cream , place a first layer of pasta sheets , then continue with slices of hard-boiled eggs, shrimp, and asparagus tips . Continue alternating the layers until all the ingredients are used up.
Finish with a layer of asparagus cream , slices of hard-boiled eggs, and asparagus tips . Bake the lasagna in a static oven at 392°F for 25 minutes (or in a fan oven at 356°F for 15-20 minutes). Once cooked, take your lasagna with asparagus, eggs, and shrimp out of the oven , let them cool slightly, and then serve them!
You can store the lasagna with asparagus, eggs, and shrimp in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for 1-2 days. They can be prepared the day before, stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap, and cooked the next day. They can be frozen, but only if all fresh ingredients have been used, preferably uncooked: to cook, it will be sufficient to thaw them in the refrigerator about 24 hours in advance and then bake them.
It is possible to replace shrimp with prawns, shrimps, or langoustines if you are looking for a more delicate flavor.

