name:
Passatelli with zucchini pesto
ingredients:
Meat broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 4.25oz(120 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(120 g)
Eggs: 3
Lemon peel: ½
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Zucchini: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(30 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Basil: 2tsp(10 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the passatelli with zucchini pesto, start with the pesto. For more details on this preparation, consult the Zucchini pesto recipe: wash the zucchini, remove the ends, and, with the help of a grater, shred them . Place the grated zucchini in a colander and lightly salt them so they lose excess liquid . Meanwhile, in a blender, place the basil leaves, parsley, peeled garlic clove, pine nuts, extra virgin olive oil , grated Parmesan and Pecorino cheese.
Blend everything and add a drizzle of oil and a pinch of salt and pepper. Add the zucchini to the mixture along with another drizzle of oil as needed to make the pesto creamy, and complete with a final blend. The pesto should be smooth and homogeneous .
Cut the sun-dried tomatoes into strips, rehydrate them in hot water, then rinse them to remove excess salt, drain them, and add them to the pesto (if using sun-dried tomatoes in oil, drain and dry them before adding to the pesto). Mix with a wooden spoon to obtain a homogeneous sauce that you will set aside. Now focus on the passatelli. For cooking, prepare a Beef Broth following our recipe. For the passatelli dough, you can follow the classic Passatelli in broth recipe. Place the eggs in a bowl, add the salt
and beat them with a whisk or fork. Incorporate the grated Parmesan , breadcrumbs, and season with grated nutmeg and grated lemon zest ,
knead the mixture by hand until it is compact , then form a dough ball and let it rest for 5 minutes.
After the resting time, take the dough ball, bring the meat broth to a boil, and form the passatelli with the appropriate tool (passatelli iron) or with a potato masher with large holes. Squeeze the dough and let the passatelli fall directly into the pot with the hot broth , cook for a few minutes until the passatelli float to the surface. At that point, remove them with a slotted spoon and transfer them to the bowl with the pesto , gently mix with a spoon to season them with the sauce. Your passatelli with zucchini pesto are ready enjoy them hot!
It is recommended to consume the passatelli with zucchini pesto immediately. If there are leftovers, place them in the refrigerator for no more than one day in an airtight container. It is possible to freeze the raw passatelli dough separately and the zucchini pesto in small jars.
If you don't like pine nuts, you can replace them with almonds; the best would be to add a few mint leaves to the pesto.

