name:
Sea bream fillets in a cage
ingredients:
Sea bream: 1- (about 300 g)
Tomatoes: 0.67cup(100 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Lemon peel: ½
Parsley: 1tuft
Thyme: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Dill: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 2spoonfuls- about

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the sea bream fillets in a cage, start by cleaning the sea bream (you can also ask your trusted fishmonger to fillet the sea bream for you to skip this step): for detailed instructions, consult the cooking school sheet: How to clean the sea bream . Scale the fish with a knife, then cut off all the fins and make an incision to gut it; then rinse it thoroughly under running water. Cut off the head, then make an incision along the back of the sea bream and with the knife blade cut along the bone and detach all the meat, repeating the operation on the opposite side; then remove the skin from the fillets. Once you have the fillets, check that they don't have bones by running your fingers over the surface: if you find any, you can easily remove them with kitchen tweezers . Now move on to the seasoning: wash the tomatoes, cut them in half and scoop them out to remove the seeds ; cut them into strips and then into cubes.
Chop the aromatic herbs : thyme, dill, marjoram, and parsley; also chop a clove of garlic. Place the diced tomato pulp in a small bowl, then add the chopped herbs , the garlic, the grated lemon zest, a drizzle of oil, salt, and pepper to taste.
Mix everything with a spoon and assemble the sea bream in a cage: take the ready-made puff pastry and unroll it, leaving the baking paper it wraps with. Place the two sea bream fillets in the center slightly overlapping , season them with a little fine salt and the tomato filling .
Once the ingredients are finished , start preparing the cage (if the puff pastry seems too much, you can trim it by creating a narrower oval around the fillets . Then start preparing the cage: with a smooth pastry cutter create diamonds in the central part of the pastry about an inch wide , starting from the edges towards the fillets, leaving the two ends intact at the mouth and tail.
Fold the pastry at one of the two ends towards the inside: it will be the mouth of the fish , then cut a piece and set it aside . Then create the cage by interweaving the puff pastry strips over the fillets ,
leaving more or less space between one and the other depending on the desire to show the filling , then fold the final part of the tail: fold the puff pastry laterally into two triangles and then fold everything towards the inside and make incisions with the smooth-edged pastry cutter (they will simulate the fins) .
Brush the surface with a beaten egg yolk with a few tablespoons of fresh cream , so that after cooking the fish will be crispy and golden. With the pastry scraps, you can create the fin and the eye. As it is, transfer it to a baking tray and cook it in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 30 minutes (if using a fan oven, 320°F for about 20 minutes). Once cooked, remove the sea bream in a cage from the oven and place the fish, for example, on a bed of tomatoes and lamb's lettuce !
You can store the sea bream fillets in a cage in the refrigerator for 1-2 days at most, in an airtight container. You can freeze them raw or cooked, only if you used fresh, not previously frozen ingredients.
This dish can also be made with perch or cod fillets. If you prefer, you can also create the cage with shortcrust pastry: it will rise less during cooking but will still be tasty!

