name:
Apple and Cinnamon Tartlets
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: 4.5oz(125 g)- cold from the fridge
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Vanilla bean: 1
Whole milk: 1cup(250 ml)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.67cup(150 ml)
Sugar: ⅓cup(70 g)
Cornstarch: 3.3tbsp(25 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Lemon peel: 1- untreated
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Apples: 0.9lb(400 g)
Brown sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Lemon juice: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low
Note + the resting of the shortcrust pastry in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the apple and cinnamon tartlets, start with the pastry crust: in the food processor, add the sifted flour, powdered sugar, and cold butter from the fridge . Then turn it on to create a sandy mixture , which you then pour onto a work surface. Create the classic fountain and place the vanilla bean seeds and egg yolks in the center .
Quickly work the dough and form it into a loaf; wrap it in cling film and refrigerate it for at least 30 minutes. Meanwhile, focus on the cream: in a saucepan, heat the milk and 3.5 tablespoons of cream. Add a pinch of ground cinnamon and the whole cinnamon stick .
Peel the zest from an untreated lemon and add it to the milk and cream . While the mixture is on the heat, place the egg yolks in the food processor and add granulated sugar : turn on the processor to blend the ingredients .
When they are well combined, add the cornstarch and turn on the processor again to mix everything. Transfer the obtained cream into a bowl . When the cream and milk are about to boil, turn off the heat and remove the lemon zest and cinnamon stick .
Pour the egg mixture into the saucepan with the milk and cream in a thin stream and stir with a whisk to prevent lumps from forming. Turn on low heat and thicken the cream. When it reaches a creamy, smooth, and lump-free consistency , place it in a bowl and cover with cling film in contact to cool completely.
Meanwhile, butter and flour the tartlet molds carefully, which have a diameter of 4.5 inches. Take the pastry crust and roll it into a disk about a quarter inch thick . Use a 5.5-inch diameter pastry cutter to cut out 6 disks. Place each pastry disk on the mold ;
press them to fit perfectly into the mold and prick the bottom with a fork's tines , then lay a square of parchment paper and ceramic baking beads for blind baking (you can also use dried beans like navy beans). Bake the tartlets in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 20 minutes (if using a convection oven, at 320°F for 10 minutes). Once cooked, remove the bases from the oven and let them cool slightly.
Then transfer them to a wire rack to cool completely . In a small bowl, pour the squeezed and filtered lemon juice ; separately, mix the brown sugar and cinnamon and add it to the lemon juice.
Now cut the apples into thin slices a few millimeters thick and divide them in half. Immerse them in the bowl with lemon and brown sugar so they don't brown. Then, in a separate bowl, whip the cream
and gently fold it into the now cold cream. Stir with a spatula from top to bottom , then transfer the cream into a disposable pastry bag with an opening about half an inch wide. Fill the tartlets with the cream and arrange the well-drained apple slices in a radial pattern .
With the leftover cream, create an additional garnish, perhaps a tuft in the center of each tartlet and decorate with a red currant . Your apple and cinnamon tartlets are ready to be enjoyed !
Store the tartlets in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 1-2 days. You can freeze them without the apples, then thaw and garnish them when serving. You can freeze the shortcrust pastry and thaw it in the refrigerator as needed. The cream can be frozen if you have used fresh, non-defrosted ingredients.
Apples or pears: why not both? Create your tartlets with different flavors to please everyone!

