name:
White chocolate fondant with maraschino cream
ingredients:
White chocolate: 8.8oz(250 g)
Condensed milk: ½cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Eggs: 2
Fresh liquid cream: 0.7cup(150 ml)
Maraschino: 2oz(60 ml)
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 16 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the white chocolate cakes with Maraschino cream, start with the cake batter: roughly chop the white chocolate , then melt it in a bain-marie (the water in the pot should not touch the container in which you pour the chocolate) stirring with a wooden spoon .
Once completely melted, add the butter and mix it into the chocolate . In the bowl of a stand mixer, place the eggs and whip them with the whisk ; when they are white and frothy, add the condensed milk .
Then pour in the melted white chocolate in a stream and continue to whip the mixture to get a smooth, fluid, and homogeneous cream ; transfer it to a bowl .
Add the sifted flour and mix with a spatula to combine it into the mixture . Butter aluminum molds (about 3.4 oz capacity) using a kitchen brush .
Dust them with flour and fill them with the chocolate mixture leaving about 0.4 inches from the edge . Bake the cakes in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 16 minutes (320°F for about 10 minutes); to better adjust the cooking time for your oven, you can bake one and better calibrate the time and temperature. While the white chocolate cakes are baking, prepare the Maraschino cream: in a bowl pour the fresh liquid cream, add the Maraschino liqueur
and whip everything with electric whisks . Then transfer the Maraschino cream to a pastry bag (you can store it in the refrigerator until serving time). Once baked, take the cakes out of the oven and wait 5 minutes before turning them over and unmolding them onto serving plates . Accompany the white chocolate cakes with dollops of Maraschino cream!
It is preferable to consume the cakes just made to ensure the melting heart; you can store the raw batter in the refrigerator in the molds for about 12 hours and bake them as needed; you can also freeze them and bake from frozen (making sure to bake one to test time and temperature).
Instead of Maraschino, you can use another liqueur, such as Grand Marnier. If you prefer, you can accompany the cakes with a dark chocolate sauce instead of the cream.

