name:
Black Forest Delights
ingredients:
Egg whites: 0.417cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 3 ⅓tbsp(50 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.67cup(80 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(20 g)
Greek yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 ml)- approximately
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Black cherried in syrup: 20
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Black cherried in syrup: 5

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 5
Cost: Average
Note + 2 hours for the cream to set

instructions:
To make the Black Forest delights, start by preparing the sponge cake domes, called "casses": separate the egg whites from the yolks and place them in two separate bowls , beat the yolks with half of the sugar until you get a light and fluffy cream .
Beat the egg whites with the mixers and when they become white, add the remaining sugar to whisk them until stiff peaks form (you can also use an electric mixer to whip the eggs). Combine the two mixtures and gently mix with a spatula from top to bottom to avoid deflating them.
Also, incorporate the sifted flour and cocoa powder into the batter, always mixing gently to keep the mixture nice and fluffy. The leavening agent is not needed in this recipe because air has already been incorporated by whipping the eggs. Transfer the mixture to a disposable pastry bag and fill a silicone single-serving delights mold (or a greased and floured aluminum mold). Bake the delights in a preheated static oven for 30 minutes (or in a ventilated oven at 320°F for 20 minutes).
Once cooked, remove them from the oven , let them cool slightly, and then turn them out on a wire rack and wait until they are cold before filling them. In the meantime, prepare the filling cream: soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for 10 minutes , then whip the well-chilled cream (set aside two tablespoons to warm up for melting the gelatin) with an electric mixer or stand mixer with a whisk; when it's semi-whipped, add the sifted powdered sugar and continue whipping until stiff peaks form.
At this point, transfer the whipped cream to a bowl and incorporate the Greek yogurt (alternatively, you can use plain yogurt), then squeeze out the gelatin, which will have softened, and dissolve it in two tablespoons of warm cream . Let it cool and incorporate it into the cream by mixing with a spoon. Cover the cream with plastic wrap and let it firm up in the fridge for a couple of hours.
Now take the cooled delights, cut a circle one centimeter from the edge, and hollow out the inside , extracting the entire batter to create a cavity that you will fill with the filling, some of the extracted batter will serve as a lid to close the delights, and the excess will be crumbled over the delights as a garnish . Separate the sour cherries from their syrup and use the syrup to soak the inside of the delights ,
then fill them with the yogurt cream: to make it easier, transfer the cream into a pastry bag, fill half of the cavity with the cream , place a few sour cherries on top , and fill again with the cream. Close the delight with the sponge cake "lid" .
Place the ready delights on a wire rack . Add some fresh liquid cream to the leftover cream and mix to get a more fluid consistency. Pour the cream over the delights with a spoon or transfer it to a pastry bag. Place the delights and the leftover cream in the fridge to firm up. Then place them on a serving plate and garnish with dollops of cream around the base .
On the surface, crumble the leftover sponge cake and finally decorate the top of the dome with a dollop of cream and a sour cherry (26-27). The Black Forest delights are ready to be enjoyed!
Black Forest delights can be stored in the fridge in an airtight container or well covered with plastic wrap for up to 2 days. The Black Forest delights can be frozen unfilled and filled but without the coating. Let them thaw in the fridge one day before consuming them.
The traditional delights are lemon-flavored, but countless variations can be made: pistachio, raspberry, strawberries, or tangerine, let your imagination run wild following your tastes!

