name:
Layered filled cake
ingredients:
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(130 g)
Potato starch: 6.3tbsp(50 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 6tbsp(30 g)
Honey: 3 ½tsp(15 g)
Eggs: 3
Egg yolks: 8
White chocolate: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Whole milk: 2cups(500 ml)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Egg yolks: 4
Fresh liquid cream: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Powdered sugar: ⅓cup(40 g)
Vanilla bean: 1- the seeds
Food coloring: to taste- yellow and blue
Sugar paste roses: to taste
Wafer paper flowers: to taste
Food decorations: to taste- colored sugar balls

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 55 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + 1 h to set the cream and 1 h to set the filled cake

instructions:
To make the layered filled cake, start with the base mixture: place the whole eggs and yolks in a bowl, add the honey , then add the granulated sugar and whisk with an electric mixer (or a stand mixer)
until you get a light and fluffy mixture : it will take at least 10 minutes. In another bowl, gather the flour, cocoa powder , and potato starch. Sift the dry ingredients and collect them in the bowl containing the egg mixture ,
mix with a spoon to combine the ingredients. Pour the mixture into a 9-inch (23 cm) diameter cake pan greased and lined with parchment paper . Bake the sponge cake in a preheated static oven at 356°F (180°C) for 45 minutes (if using a convection oven, bake at 320°F (160°C) for 35 minutes). Once cooked, remove the pan from the oven and let it cool before removing the cake from the pan.
Now focus on the filling: chop the white chocolate , then place a saucepan with the milk on the stove and bring it to a boil. Meanwhile, place the yolks in a bowl ,
add the granulated sugar and mix with a whisk until you get a light mixture, incorporate the sifted flour . Pour the resulting mixture into the hot milk
and continue stirring as you add the chopped white chocolate , continue cooking over low heat until the cream thickens. When the cream is ready ,
turn off the heat and transfer it to a large glass bowl to let it cool quickly by covering it with cling film in contact with the surface . Meanwhile, the sponge cake will have cooled; remove it from the pan and cut it horizontally to obtain 3 layers. Place the base layer on a serving plate ,
transfer the cold cream into a piping bag with a smooth nozzle and fill the first layer of sponge cake with the cream . Cover with a second layer of sponge cake, fill again with the cream, and close with the third layer of cocoa sponge cake .
Now focus on the decoration: whip the cream with an electric mixer , cut a vanilla pod lengthwise, use a knife to extract the seeds and add them to the freshly whipped cream .
Add the powdered sugar to the cream when it is semi-whipped and then color it with a few drops of yellow food coloring and a few drops of blue food coloring until you achieve an aqua green color.
Cover with cling film and let cool in the refrigerator before decorating. When the whipped cream is well set, spread it with a spatula over the entire surface of the cake , smoothing it to make it very smooth. Transfer the remaining cream into a piping bag with a star nozzle and create cream tufts at the base of the cake
and around the entire perimeter of the surface . Take the flower-shaped decorations, apply them to the edge and center of the cake, creating a pretty floral pattern. Take the colored balls and use a teaspoon to distribute a strip around the entire edge . Your layered filled cake is ready to be served .
Store the layered filled cake in the refrigerator for a maximum of a couple of days. It's possible to freeze the unfilled sponge cake and thaw it in the refrigerator when needed. You can store the white chocolate filling covered with cling film in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
Have fun alternating flavors by making a white sponge cake filled with a delicious dark chocolate custard. If you're worried that the whipped cream might collapse, add 5 grams of gelatin sheets soaked in cold water and then dissolved in 50 ml of warm cream.

