name:
Two-tone pudding
ingredients:
Whole milk: 0.67cup(150 ml)
Fresh liquid cream: ⅓cup(80 ml)
Sugar: 3tbsp(40 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Gelatin in sheets: 0.1oz(4 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Whole milk: 1 ⅛cup(270 ml)
Dark chocolate: 2.1oz(60 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(55 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(55 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(25 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(125 ml)
Powdered sugar: ¼cup(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the time required for setting in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the two-tone pudding, start with the vanilla pudding: soak the gelatin in cold water for at least 10 minutes . In a saucepan, pour the cream and milk and add the vanilla (both the seeds and the pod) ; cook over low heat and bring to just below boiling. Meanwhile, in a bowl, whisk the egg yolks and sugar with a hand whisk .
Remove the vanilla pod from the heated milk and cream , drain and thoroughly squeeze the gelatin and add it to the hot mixture , stirring with a whisk to dissolve completely. Pour this mixture over the yolks with the sugar and blend the ingredients always with the whisk.
Divide the obtained cream into 4 molds (you can use a funnel to avoid excessive mess) (7-8). Then put them in the fridge to set (or in the freezer to halve the time). Meanwhile, focus on the chocolate pudding: heat the milk in a saucepan until it almost boils;
In another saucepan, melt the butter over very low heat along with the sugar . Roughly chop the dark chocolate , then when the butter has melted, also add the chocolate .
Stir continuously with a whisk, cooking everything over low heat; also add the sifted flour to the melted chocolate , stir and gradually pour in the previously heated milk . Blend the ingredients with the whisk and thicken everything over low heat .
Transfer the cream to a bowl and let it cool at room temperature covered with plastic wrap ; when it is cold, you can distribute it over the now firm vanilla puddings, reaching almost the edge of the mold (for this operation you can use a teaspoon or a piping bag with a smooth tip).
Flatten the puddings with the back of a teaspoon to level the surface and put them in the refrigerator to set for about 2 hours. Just before serving the two-tone pudding, whip the fresh liquid cream with electric whisk and when it is semi-whipped, add the icing sugar , continue to whip for a few more minutes
until it is very firm ; then pour it into a piping bag with a star nozzle and place it in the refrigerator until ready to use. Once the puddings are well set, to unmold them more easily, you can dip the molds briefly in boiling water , then turn them over onto the serving plate .
Decorate with a dollop of whipped cream , and with other garnishes as desired; for example, we used caramel candy squares and dark chocolate leaves !
You can store the puddings for 1-2 days in the refrigerator in the molds and covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended.
Do you want to make your pudding even more special? Enrich the chocolate one with crumbled amaretti cookies, biscuits, or orange zest!

