name:
Purple potato gnocchi
ingredients:
Purple potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Gruyere cheese: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
White pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the purple potato gnocchi, take the purple potatoes , wash them thoroughly, and boil them in salted water to taste : it will take about 30-40 minutes (time will be halved if you use a pressure cooker). Once cooked, drain and peel them while still hot .
Pass them through a food mill and let the pulp fall into a bowl, where you can also add the sifted flour, the egg , and a pinch of salt. Knead everything with your hands directly in the bowl , until you get a homogeneous and firm dough.
With the dough obtained, form small logs which you will need to cut into bite-sized pieces . Pass the gnocchi over the tines of a fork or on a gnocchi board to create the characteristic ridges.
As you prepare them, place them on a slightly floured tray . Cover them with a clean kitchen towel and keep them in a cool place for at least 15 minutes. Meanwhile, focus on the Gruyère cream: grate the cheese , while pouring the cream into a saucepan and heat it. Before it reaches a boil,
add the grated Gruyère . Mix well to melt it, then adjust with salt, pepper, and grate nutmeg to flavor. While the cream thickens over low heat, cook the gnocchi in a large pot: it will only take a few moments and the gnocchi will be ready when they float to the surface. Then drain them with a slotted spoon and dress them with the Gruyère cream! Serve the purple potato gnocchi hot !
You can store the purple potato gnocchi in the refrigerator for 1 day covered with plastic wrap. When raw, you can store them in the refrigerator for 12-24 hours covered on a floured tray and covered with a clean cloth. You can freeze the gnocchi: when you need to cook them, there's no need to defrost them. The Gruyère cream can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for 1-2 days.
You can also dress the purple potato gnocchi with Parmesan cream or saffron!

