name:
Nua Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 8.5oz(240 g)- (about 5 medium)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Baking powder: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Vegetable oil: 9tbsp(130 g)
Whole milk: ⅓cup(80 g)
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Egg yolks: 3- medium
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Rice starch: 4tbsp(30 g)
Dark chocolate: 1.75oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the Nua cake, start with the batter: use an electric whisk to mix the eggs with the sugar, then add a pinch of salt and the seeds from the vanilla pod (keep the pod aside as it will be used for the custard). The mixture should be frothy. Only then, slowly pour in the vegetable oil and continue whisking.
Gradually sift in the flour mixed with the baking powder . Finally, slowly pour in the milk and continue to mix the batter until combined. Pour everything into a 9-inch diameter cake pan lined with parchment paper .
Move on to the custard: heat the milk in a saucepan, infusing it with the vanilla pod without the seeds . In a separate pot, mix the egg yolks with the sugar while cold , then add the rice starch and mix again until you have a smooth and homogeneous mixture.
When the milk is almost boiling, you can add it to the egg yolk mixture a little at a time , stirring. Once all the milk has been added, you can turn on the low heat and cook the custard, stirring continuously until fully cooked and at the right thickness .
Divide the custard into two parts and add 50g of chopped dark chocolate to one of them . Stir with the whisk to fully dissolve . Gently place the chocolate custard onto the cake batter first, using two spoons , spacing the dollops well apart.
Then add the classic custard in smaller dollops . This step will help prevent the custard from sinking during baking. Now bake on the lower rack of a preheated static oven at 340°F for 65 minutes. After the baking time, perform the toothpick test. Remove from the oven and let cool . Serve your Nua cake , if you prefer, with a dusting of powdered sugar!
You can store the Nua cake in the fridge. When serving, take it out about 1 hour before if it's winter, or half an hour before if it's summer.
The custard and chocolate custard can be made the day before and kept in the fridge, and then slightly worked by hand to soften before use.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can flavor the Nua cake with lemon or orange zest.


