name:
Mini puff pastries of chiacchiere
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: ½cup(65 g)
Condensed milk: 1tbsp(25 g)
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)- soft
Eggs: 1- medium
Baking powder: ½tsp(2 g)
Vanilla bean: ½- the seeds
Fine salt: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: 3 ⅛cups(750 ml)
Condensed milk: 12tbsp(180 g)
Raspberries: 2cups(250 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Pistachio paste: 4 ¼tbsp(60 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.25oz(6 g)
White chocolate: 2.8oz(80 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(50 ml)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.2oz(5 g)
Raspberries: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 5

instructions:
To make the mini millefoglie of chiacchiere, start by soaking the gelatin in cold water for 5 minutes in three separate bowls: 8 g for the raspberry cream, 6 g for the pistachio cream, and 5 g for the white chocolate cream (each cream has a different gelatin dosage based on the ingredient composition; for raspberries, which contain more water and have a high acidity level, the dose will be higher). Focus on the red cream: place the raspberries in a pan and cook over low heat with the lid on .
until reduced to a sauce , strain the mixture with a sieve to remove the seeds and then incorporate the 8 g of softened and well-drained gelatin into the still warm sauce .
Proceed with the white sauce: squeeze the 5 g of gelatin and dissolve it in 50 ml of hot cream , separately melt the white chocolate (in the microwave or bain-marie) and incorporate the cream into the chocolate , stir well with a spoon to blend the mixture .
Finally, prepare the green cream: squeeze the 6 g of gelatin and dissolve it in 50 ml of hot cream, incorporate the mixture into the pistachio cream mixing well with a spoon to obtain a homogeneous cream . You will have thus obtained the 3 colored sauces that will serve as a base for the creams .
Proceed with the preparation of the cream by whipping with an electric whisk or a mixer, 750 ml of fresh cream ; for best results, follow our guide on how to whip cream. Pour 180 g of condensed milk into the cream and gently mix with a spatula from bottom to top to not deflate the mixture. Divide the cream and condensed milk mixture into 3 parts and add 1/3 to the raspberry sauce ,
1/3 to the pistachio cream and 1/3 to the white chocolate cream . Cover the 3 creams with plastic wrap in contact and place in the refrigerator to set for at least 2 hours.
In the meantime, work on the chiacchiere; to do so in the best way, consult our Chiacchiere (Sweet fried dough) recipe: in a bowl, place the sifted flour and baking powder , add the vanilla bean seeds, the eggs , the butter in pieces ,
a pinch of salt, the condensed milk . Knead by hand with your fingertips for at least 10 minutes the ingredients until a smooth and homogeneous dough is formed .
Take a portion of the dough and cover the rest with plastic wrap so it won't dry out , roll out the dough with the appropriate machine to the narrowest roller (or with a rolling pin) to obtain a thin sheet .
Then with a serrated cutter, cut into square strips 4 inches on each side , you will need to obtain 20 chiacchiere. Place the obtained strips on a floured cloth . Fry a few chiacchiere at a time in plenty of hot but not boiling seed oil (340°F - 355°F at most), turning them on both sides and being careful not to burn them;
as soon as they become golden, drain them with a skimmer and place them to drain on a tray covered with absorbent paper. At this point, you can assemble the dessert: place a chiacchera on a dessert plate, take the 3 creams and transfer them into 3 different pastry bags with a star nozzle, spread a layer of pistachio cream on the dough, then cover with another chiacchiera,
squeeze another layer of white chocolate cream and place another chiacchiera on top; finally, place a layer of raspberry cream and close the millefoglie with the fourth chiacchiera. In total, you will obtain 5 mini millefoglie. Garnish the surface with dollops of creams, fresh raspberries, and some fresh mint leaves. Your mini millefoglie of chiacchiere are ready to brighten up your festive table !
We recommend consuming the chiacchiere as soon as they're ready. Alternatively, you can store the unfrosted chiacchiere for a couple of days under a glass dome or in a paper bag. The creams can be stored in the refrigerator separately for a couple of days.
Have fun varying the filling with the fillings you prefer; you can make a chocolate ganache or vary the fruit by also using blueberries, strawberries, or a delicious hazelnut cream. If you can't find pistachio cream, you can make it at home by finely blending the same amount of unsalted shelled pistachios and a tablespoon of milk.

