name:
Carnival Cupcakes
ingredients:
Butter: ½cup(120 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Condensed milk: ¼cup(70 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Baking powder: ¾tsp(3 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Lemon peel: 1- untreated
Fine salt: 1pinch
Sugar: 1.1cups(225 g)
Butter: ¾cup(170 g)
Mint syrup: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Black cherry syrup: 2 ½tbsp(50 g)
Condensed milk: 4tbsp(75 g)
Water: 5tbsp(75 ml)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(50 ml)
Egg yolks: 7
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time of the creams in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the carnival cupcakes, work the butter with the sugar in a bowl using an electric mixer or a wooden spoon. Grate the zest of an untreated lemon and add the seeds of a vanilla pod (or a sachet of vanilla sugar);
also add an egg and the condensed milk . Work the ingredients to whip and combine them ;
Add the sifted flour and baking powder to the cream , then work everything until you get a smooth mixture .
Transfer the mixture to a piping bag and distribute it into the muffin liners with which you lined a 12-cup muffin tin, filling them 2/3 full (this way, the cupcakes will rise to the edge of the liners during baking). Bake the muffins in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 20 minutes (320°F for approximately 15 minutes if using a convection oven). Remove them from the oven once baked and let them cool. While the muffins are baking, prepare the buttercream: in a small bowl, soak the gelatin in a little cold water for at least 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, heat the water with the sugar in a saucepan, stirring occasionally with a spatula. When the sugar has dissolved, place a kitchen thermometer in the saucepan and without stirring further, bring the syrup to 250°F. While the syrup is reaching temperature, place the egg yolks in a stand mixer (or work them with an electric mixer), add the condensed milk , and start whipping them. When the syrup has reached the temperature, pour it slowly over the yolks while continuing to beat : you will need to continue working the mixture until it has completely cooled.
Then cream the room temperature butter, helping yourself with a spatula . Gradually incorporate the butter into the rest of the mixture , beating until creamy. Once the buttercream is ready, divide it into three small bowls: one can be left white, into the others you can pour the cherry syrup ,
and the mint syrup to have three different colored creams. Squeeze the gelatin sheets previously soaked and dissolve them in 1/4 cup of warm liquid cream, stirring until completely melted. Divide this mixture into the two bowls with the colored creams. Place the creams in the refrigerator to firm up for at least 30 minutes, covered with plastic wrap . When the cupcakes are well-cooled, transfer the creams into three disposable piping bags without a nozzle, and then insert them into another piping bag with a fairly wide star nozzle .
With the blade of a knife, you can squeeze the piping bag to bring the creams towards the tip and facilitate the expulsion ; decorate the carnival cupcakes with a swirl of the three colored creams and garnish with colored sprinkles !
Keep the decorated cupcakes in the refrigerator (or without cream under a glass dome). The undecorated cupcakes can be frozen, then thawed in the refrigerator and slightly warmed in the oven. The buttercream can be prepared a day in advance and stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap.
Are you a lover of colors and want to impress even more? Add a cherry to each cupcake batter before baking to color the base as well. For decoration, you can also use sprinkles or colored pearls!

