name:
Chiffon cake multicolor
ingredients:
Eggs: 12.3oz(350 g)- (about 6 medium)
Type 00 flour: 2.3cups(290 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)- superfine
Water: 0.85cup(200 ml)
Sunflower seed oil: 0.55cup(120 g)
Condensed milk: 0.3cup(100 g)
Pistachio paste: 2.5oz(70 g)
Baking powder: 1bag
Cream of tartar: 2tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Strawberries: 2cups(300 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ⅓cup(100 g)
Condensed milk: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 10

instructions:
To prepare the multicolor chiffon cake, start with the batter: in a bowl, pour the sifted flour, baking powder , sugar , and salt .
Separate the egg whites from the yolks and gather the yolks in a small bowl where you can add the water , vegetable oil , and pistachio paste .
Then add the condensed milk and mix everything with a whisk . Add the mixture to the dry ingredients (flour, baking powder, sugar, and salt) .
Mix thoroughly and set the batter aside. In the bowl of a stand mixer, pour the egg whites and start working them with the beaters ; as soon as they turn white, add the cream of tartar .
Continue working the egg whites until they are well voluminous and frothy , then incorporate them into the yolk and pistachio paste mixture, stirring gently from top to bottom to prevent deflating the egg whites . Pour the mixture into the chiffon mold (or into a sponge cake mold with measurements of 8.5 inches diameter at the bottom, 10 inches diameter at the top, and 4 inches in height). Bake the multicolor chiffon cake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for 55 minutes (or in a convection oven at 285°F for about 50 minutes).
Once cooked, remove it from the oven and invert the mold, resting it on the special feet : this way, the cake will cool by incorporating air without deflating. Meanwhile, as the chiffon cools completely, prepare the glaze: in a large pan, cook the chopped strawberries over low heat, covering with a lid .
Cook, stirring occasionally until the fruit releases its juice ; then turn off the heat and strain the pulp with a fine mesh strainer before adding the condensed milk .
In a bowl with well-chilled beaters, work the cream briefly until it is semi-whipped ; you can add it to the red fruit and condensed milk mixture, stirring from bottom to top to avoid deflating the cream, until you obtain a homogeneous and fluid glaze .
Pour the glaze over the chiffon cake and decorate with chopped pistachios or sprinkles and serve your multicolor chiffon cake !
Store the multicolor chiffon cake under a glass dome. The glaze can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended.
To make the chiffon cake even more multicolor, decorate the surface with sprinkles or colorful balls!

