name:
Chocolate and Passion Fruit Waffles
ingredients:
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(220 g)
Condensed milk: ⅓cup(100 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 6tbsp(30 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Baking powder: 1.7tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Condensed milk: 0.63cup(150 g)
Passion fruit: 4

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 10 pieces

instructions:
To make the chocolate and passion fruit waffles, sift the flour, baking powder, and cocoa powder into a bowl , pour in the milk while stirring with a whisk . Separate the yolk from the egg white and add the yolk to the mixture , making sure to keep the egg white.
Now incorporate the condensed milk and continue mixing . Separately, melt the butter, let it cool, and then add it to the mixture , cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let the batter rest in the refrigerator for a couple of hours.
After the resting time, beat the egg white you set aside to stiff peaks and gently fold it into the waffle batter . At this point, proceed with the cooking: heat a waffle iron, pour the batter into the designated mold with a ladle until the entire mold is filled .
Close the iron and cook the batter for about 5 minutes or as indicated by your iron. Once cooked, remove them and let them cool slightly . Now focus on the sauce: cut the passion fruits in half , extract the pulp and strain it through a sieve to remove the seeds and collect it in a bowl ,
add the condensed milk and stir to obtain a thick and homogeneous sauce . Place your chocolate waffles on a serving plate and accompany them with the passion fruit sauce .
It is recommended to consume the filled waffles immediately and store them in the refrigerator for up to one day. You can store the cream in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for a couple of days or the unfilled waffles under a glass dome for a couple of days.
Can't find passion fruit? Invent new tasty sauces with blueberries, currants, or strawberries, or fill your chocolate waffles with a delicious and timeless Pastry cream !

