name:
Colorful profiteroles with mascarpone
ingredients:
Water: 2.1cups(500 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Butter: 0.875cup(200 g)
Condensed milk: 1.75oz(50 g)
Pistachio paste: 1.4oz(40 g)
Dark chocolate: 1.4oz(40 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¾tsp(10 g)
Eggs: 7
Mascarpone cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Condensed milk: 0.3cup(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(50 ml)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
White chocolate: to taste
Colored sprinkles: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 10
Note + 2 h of resting the cream in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the colorful mascarpone profiteroles, start with the filling: soak the gelatin in cold water for at least 10 minutes . Then squeeze it and pour it into a small bowl with 50 ml (1/4 cup) of lukewarm whipping cream. Stir with a teaspoon to dissolve it completely and then add it to the previously melted dark chocolate (you can melt it in a double boiler or in the microwave) . Mix the ingredients,
and add it to the mascarpone ; work the ingredients with a whisk , and once you have a smooth cream, cover it with plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator to set for at least 2 hours .
Now, move on to preparing the Choux pastry (pâte à choux) for the cream puffs: in a saucepan, add the butter in pieces, water, and salt ; also add the condensed milk and stir with a wooden spoon cooking over low heat until the butter has melted.
At this point, turn off the heat, add the sifted flour and stir with the wooden spoon . Turn the heat back on, on low, stirring quickly and beating vigorously with a wooden spoon: the mixture will quickly become consistent and soft and will detach from the sides, forming a ball . When a white film forms on the bottom of the pan, remove the dough from the heat.
Transfer it to the bowl of a mixer and add one egg at a time (you can adjust the liquidity of the dough and if it seems too runny you can add fewer eggs). Work the dough with the whisk , then divide it into 3 small bowls. In one, add the pistachio paste
and mix thoroughly to create the green color; in the other bowl, add the previously melted dark chocolate (you can melt it in a double boiler or in the microwave) and mix to get the brown color ; you can leave the other bowl white.
Transfer the 3 mixtures into 3 different piping bags with a plain nozzle and create mounds on 3 baking sheets lined with parchment paper (20-21) (you can bake one mixture at a time if you have only one baking sheet, changing the parchment paper each time). Bake the cream puffs in a preheated static oven for 15 minutes at 428°F (220°C) (keep the temperature at 392°F (200°C) with a fan oven), avoiding opening the oven during baking. After the first 15 minutes, lower the temperature to 375°F (190°C) and bake the choux pastry for another 10 minutes. At this point, turn off the oven and leave the cream puffs inside for another 10-15 minutes with the door slightly open (place a wooden spoon between the door and the oven); this will help to dry the inside well, then remove them from the oven.
Once baked and completely cooled, you can fill the cream puffs: take the mascarpone cream from the fridge and put it in a piping bag with a long, narrow nozzle (you can also use a syringe). Then fill each cream puff by inserting the tip of the piping bag at the base .
Melt the white chocolate in a double boiler or in the microwave and once lukewarm, dip the top of the cream puffs , then place them one by one on serving plates, gradually creating a pyramid (26-27). You can further decorate the colorful mascarpone profiteroles with colored sprinkles or balls!
Store the profiteroles in the fridge for a maximum of 1-2 days (they might get slightly moist). The mascarpone cream can be kept in the fridge for 1-2 days covered with plastic wrap. Cooked and empty cream puffs can be stored for a long time, even 2 weeks, preferably in a tin container away from moisture. Freezing is not recommended.
Match your tastes by opting for a dark chocolate coating if you prefer, perhaps covering the entire pyramid instead of the individual cream puffs!

