name:
Lemon cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: 8.8tbsp(125 g)- cold
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Lemon peel: 2
Whole milk: ½cup(125 ml)
Sugar: 3tbsp(35 g)
Cornstarch: 1 ¼tbsp(10 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.7tbsp(5 g)
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To make the lemon cookies, start by preparing the shortcrust pastry (for further details, refer to the Shortcrust pastry recipe): sift the flour and transfer it to the mixer, add the butter and a pinch of salt and blend until you get a sandy mixture; separately grate the lemon zest .
Then transfer the sandy mixture onto a work surface forming a classic fountain, pour the sugar in the center, and add the lemon zest to the mixture to flavor it . Now incorporate the egg yolks and knead quickly by hand to mix the ingredients until you get a homogeneous and compact dough.
Form a dough ball, wrap it with plastic wrap , and place it in the refrigerator to set for at least 30 minutes. Now take care of the cream: heat the milk in a saucepan with the lemon zest , bring it to a simmer, and then turn off the heat.
Separately, in a bowl, pour the egg yolks and sugar and whip the mixture with a whisk until it is light, then add the flour and cornstarch (or potato starch) sifted little by little, continuing to mix with the whisk.
Lastly, incorporate the hot milk . Transfer the cream into a saucepan, taking care to pass it through a sieve to retain the lemon zest and any lumps . Cook the cream over low heat, continuing to stir with the whisk .
Until you get a thick and compact consistency . Pour the cream into a small bowl, cover it with plastic wrap in contact , and let the cream cool in the refrigerator. Meanwhile, take the shortcrust pastry dough out and roll it out with a rolling pin on a floured surface, creating a sheet about 1/8 inch thick .
Using a cookie cutter with a diameter of about 2 1/2 inches, cut out 40 circles because each cookie will be made of two pastry discs (you can vary the shape of the cookies using flower or heart-shaped cutters). Remove the cream from the refrigerator and transfer it to a piping bag, squeeze a dollop of cream in the center of the shortcrust pastry disc , then brush the pastry edge with the beaten egg .
And cover with another pastry disc ; seal the edges well with your fingers and then place the cookies obtained on a baking tray lined with parchment paper . Bake the cookies in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 20 minutes (or in a convection oven at 320°F for about 15 minutes), the cookies should not turn golden but maintain a light color. Once cooked, take your lemon cookies out of the oven and let them cool before enjoying them.
Store the lemon cookies in a tin box for 2-3 days. You can freeze the shortcrust pastry separately and thaw it in the refrigerator when needed.
If you want to vary the taste of the filling, fill your cookies with fruit jams, and if you want to make them even more delicious, cover them with a delightful Water Glaze !

