name:
Tricolor Danube
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Whole milk: 0.3cup(75 g)- at room temperature
Basil: 2cups(50 g)
Egg yolks: 1 ⅓tbsp(18 g)- (1 medium)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Sugar: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: ½tsp(3 g)
Brewer's yeast: ¼tsp(1 g)
Triple concentrated tomato paste: 3tbsp(50 g)
Egg yolks: 5oz(18 g)- (1 medium)
Sugar: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Whole milk: 0.4cup(85 g)- at room temperature
Egg yolks: 1 ¼tbsp(18 g)- (1 medium)
Sugar: 0.8tbsp(10 g)
Provola cheese: 4.2oz(120 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 4.2oz(120 g)
Egg whites: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + the dough rising time (about 2 and a half hours)

instructions:
To prepare the multicolor Danube, start by making the green dough. Pour the basil, milk , and oil into a mixer container; then blend everything until you obtain a smooth cream.
In another bowl, pour the flour, add the dry yeast , and the sugar . Then add the basil cream ,
the yolk (weighing 18 g) , and start kneading by hand until you get a homogeneous mixture .
Then transfer it to a work surface, add the salt , and knead for a few more minutes to absorb it well , then place the dough ball in a large bowl and cover with plastic wrap . Let it rise for about 2 hours, in the oven turned off, with just the light on, until it has doubled in size.
At this point, make the red dough: place the triple concentrated tomato paste in a small bowl, dilute it with room temperature milk , and add both the yolk (weighing 18 g) and the olive oil . Mix everything until you get a uniform mixture.
In another bowl, pour the flour, the dry yeast , the sugar, and the tomato mixture . Start kneading everything by hand, and only when you have obtained a uniform dough, add the salt and continue working to absorb it.
At this point, transfer the dough to a work surface , knead it for a few more minutes, then shape it into a sphere as you did previously with the green dough. Place it in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise in the oven turned off with just the light on, along with the other dough, for about 2 hours or until it has doubled in size.
Now, make the final dough, the white one. Pour the flour into a bowl, add the dry yeast, the sugar , the yolk weighing 18 g (set aside the egg white which will be used later to brush the Danube) , and room temperature milk . Knead everything by hand until you obtain a uniform mixture,
then add the salt , continue working for a few minutes on a work surface , and after shaping it into a sphere, place it in a bowl , cover with plastic wrap, and put it in the oven turned off with just the light on along with the other 2 doughs for a couple of hours, until it has doubled in size.
Once all 3 doughs have risen , prepare the filling: finely chop both the cooked ham and the provola cheese and set aside.
Take the doughs and work each one to shape it into a loaf; you can start with the white one . Divide the loaf into 10 pieces, each weighing approximately 1 oz . Using a rolling pin , flatten and obtain a disk from each portion
and fill with some cubes of provola cheese and ham . Then close, pinching the edges of the dough , and form a ball by shaping it on a work surface, rotating with your fingers to give it a spherical shape . Continue until you finish the white dough,
then perform the same operations for the red dough and fill each disk before forming the balls; then proceed with the green dough, always forming the loaf first, then the 1 oz pieces, the disks to fill , and close forming spheres. Once you have finished all the doughs and formed all the balls
grease a 10-inch mold with the help of a kitchen brush. Place the balls inside, starting from the edge, alternating the colors ; once you have filled the pan , let rise for another 30 minutes, always in the oven turned off with just the light on, covering with plastic wrap.
After the indicated time, take the Danube and preheat the static oven to 340°F. While the oven is heating, brush the tricolor Danube with a lightly beaten egg white and bake at 340°F for 30 minutes. Once baked , let the tricolor Danube cool slightly before unmolding and serving it .
You can store the tricolor Danube under a glass dome or in a food bag for 1-2 days. You can freeze the Danube after baking, or raw before the second rise, and defrost it in the fridge to then bring it back to room temperature before baking.
This is a perfect recipe for many occasions, from outdoor trips to Sunday lunch. Apart from the round shape, which is the most common, you can also create more original shapes, for example, a wave, by arranging the balls differently. As for the colors, you can vary using other ingredients depending on the season and the result you want to achieve, such as beetroot for pink and pumpkin for orange. Just blanch and blend them!

