name:
Bacalhau à Braz
ingredients:
Codfish: 0.9lb(400 g)- salted
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Whole milk: 2 ½cups(600 ml)
White onions: 3
Black olives: to taste- pitted
Eggs: 4
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the time for desalting the cod

instructions:
To prepare bacalhau à Braz, start by desalting the cod: put it in cold water for about 24 hours, making sure to change the water 3-4 times , and for the last soak, use milk, which will not only soften the fish but also sweeten it . If you are using already soaked cod, soak it in milk for an hour. After the indicated time, drain the cod , remove the skin and bones (to make this operation easier, immerse the fish for a few minutes in hot water).
Shred the cod with your hands and set aside the flesh. Wash, peel the potatoes, and then first cut them into slices and then into thin sticks of 1/8 inch .
Place the potato sticks in a bowl filled with cold water to prevent them from turning brown . Chop the garlic and thinly slice the white onions , add them along with the garlic to a pan with the oil and cook very gently for at least 10-15 minutes; they should become creamy and not take on color; if necessary, add a tablespoon of hot water.
Meanwhile, drain the potato sticks and dry them on a towel , then fry them in plenty of seed oil, making sure the oil maintains a temperature of 340°F-355°F . Fry the potatoes a few at a time for a few minutes, then drain them ,
let them dry on a tray covered with absorbent paper and keep them warm. In the meantime, the onions will have finished cooking and will be soft ; add the cod pieces and cook for a few minutes.
Meanwhile, beat the eggs with salt and pepper (16-17). Add the fried potato sticks to the pan with the cod , stir with a spoon, and turn off the heat.
Also add the beaten eggs and stir again with a wooden spoon to incorporate the eggs well, which should remain creamy (alternatively, you can transfer the mixture to a bowl and then add the eggs so they do not set). Garnish with black olives ;
finally, finely chop the parsley and add the chopped parsley to season the bacalhau . Bacalhau à Braz is ready, serve it immediately at the table and enjoy it hot .
Store bacalhau à Braz in the refrigerator in an airtight container for a couple of days. It is possible to freeze bacalhau à Braz.
Bacalhau à Braz allows only one variation, which is to replace parsley with coriander if you like the aroma. This dish is rich and hearty, simply accompany it with a good Portuguese light beer!

