name:
Paris-Brest
ingredients:
Water: ¾cup(200 ml)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Butter: 5 ¾tbsp(80 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Sugar: 1tsp
Fine salt: 0.3tsp(2 g)
Gianduia chocolate: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2 ½cups(600 ml)
Ice: to taste
Eggs: 1
Almond slices: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time

instructions:
To prepare the Paris-Brest, start with the dough: in a saucepan, pour in the butter in pieces, sugar , a pinch of salt, and water. Turn on the low heat and stir with a wooden spoon to melt the butter . Bring the mixture to a boil and at this point add the sifted flour into the saucepan ;
stir vigorously with the wooden spoon to prevent lumps from forming . When the mixture has thickened , continue cooking it on very low heat until it easily detaches from the sides and forms a white film . At this point, you can turn off the heat
and transfer the dough to the bowl of a stand mixer (or in a bowl to work it with a wooden spoon or an electric mixer). Add one egg at a time , waiting for the previous one to be absorbed before adding the next; while adding the eggs, keep the mixer running .
You need to obtain a thick, smooth, and homogeneous dough: once the whisks stop, it should fall in ribbons . Pour the mixture into a piping bag without a nozzle and cut the tip to obtain a diameter of about 3/4 inch . Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and draw a circle of about 8-9 inches in diameter with a pencil (you can use a cake pan to trace the circumference). With the piping bag, make 3 circles: two concentric and one overlapping the two.
Brush the surface with a beaten egg and sprinkle with sliced almonds . Bake the Paris-Brest in a preheated convection oven at 284-302°F for about 1 hour (320°F for about 1 hour and 10 minutes if using a static oven). While the dessert is in the oven, prepare the filling: roughly chop the gianduia chocolate ; in a saucepan, heat the cream, and when it is about to boil, add the chocolate .
Stir with a whisk to melt it completely. Let the cream thicken over low heat, then transfer it to a bowl that you have placed in another larger bowl filled with ice, to cool it quickly without losing consistency. To incorporate more air into the cream and make it fluffier, you can work it with an electric mixer or a spatula. Once ready, if you do not use it immediately, you can store the cream in a bowl with plastic wrap in contact and work it again shortly before using. When the Paris-Brest is ready, turn off the oven, place the dessert on a wire rack, and let it cool completely in the turned-off and slightly open oven until fully cooled. Once the dessert is completely cooled both above and below, place it on a cutting board and cut it in half.
Fill the Paris-Brest with the gianduia cream using a piping bag with a star nozzle . Close with the other half of the ring , and your Paris-Brest is ready !
You can store the Paris-Brest in the refrigerator in an airtight container. You can prepare the base and store it in a tin box for 2-3 days and fill it as needed. The gianduia cream can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap for 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you don't like almonds, even just a dusting of powdered sugar will be fine to garnish your Paris-Brest. And what about the filling? Whipped cream and strawberries, hazelnut cream, chantilly; you can choose the flavor you prefer!
Also try the recipe for the Coffee Zeppolona , a delicious variant made with the same dough dedicated to Father's Day.

