name:
Rainbow Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: - medium 10
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 ml)
Honey: 1 ½tbsp(30 g)
Flour: - type 00 300 gr
Sugar: - granulated 420 gr
Vanilla: - 1 pod
Baking powder: 2 ½tsp(12 g)
Food coloring: - in paste or gel: orange, red, blue, green, yellow, purple
Yogurt: - Greek 1250 gr
Sugar: - vanilla powdered sugar 170 gr
Gelatine: - in sheets 40 gr
Fresh liquid cream: 2.1cups(500 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + 2h of cream resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the rainbow cake, start with the yogurt cream: in a bowl, soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for at least 10 minutes . Meanwhile, pour 1 2/3 cups of fresh liquid cream into a small bowl, add the seeds from the vanilla bean and powdered sugar .
Whip the cream with an electric mixer ; then thoroughly drain and squeeze the gelatin sheets and place them in a small bowl with 1/2 cup of previously warmed cream : stir with a teaspoon so that the gelatin dissolves completely. Then pour the warm cream in which you dissolved the gelatin into the bowl with the whipped cream , and gently mix the two with a spatula.
Also, add the Greek yogurt and mix the ingredients until you get a homogeneous cream. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours to set. Meanwhile, separate the yolks from the whites and pour the yolks into a stand mixer bowl (you can also use an electric mixer) along with honey and the seeds from a vanilla bean . Turn on the beaters and add half the granulated sugar .
When the mixture is light and frothy , transfer it to a large bowl and gently add the liquid cream ; mix with a hand whisk or a wooden spoon and set aside; meanwhile, whip the whites until stiff. When they become white, add the remaining half of the sugar and continue to whip.
Combine the egg whites with the egg mixture , stirring from top to bottom so as not to deflate them; then sift the flour and baking powder as well; carefully mix the mixture with a wooden spoon and divide it into 6 small bowls .
Color each small bowl with gel or paste food coloring, adding it in small doses until you reach the ideal color: red , yellow, green, orange, purple, and blue (you can dissolve the coloring with a tablespoon of water so it blends more easily into the mixture). On a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, place a pastry ring 7 inches in diameter (you can also use a round mold of the same size) and pour the colored batter ; bake one base at a time in a preheated oven at 390°F for about 10 minutes (if using a convection oven, 355°F for about 5-6 minutes).
Once the sponge cake is cooked, remove it from the oven and use a knife tip to help detach the cake from the edge more easily and gently remove the ring . Proceed in the same way for the yellow , purple sponge cakes;
then make the other bases following the same procedure to obtain the green , blue , and orange sponge cakes so that you have all the bases ready for the rainbow cake.
When the cooked layers have cooled completely, you can assemble the cake: on a serving plate, place the red base, make a layer of yogurt cream by creating concentric circles with a smooth-tipped piping bag ; continue alternating the sponge cake and cream layers creating the rainbow: after the red base, the yellow one, then the green, the purple, and finally the blue one .
Coat the entire perimeter of the cake with the remaining yogurt cream and, with the yogurt cream, decorate with tufts or other motifs of your choice . The rainbow cake is ready: you can place it in the refrigerator to set until it's time to serve .
The rainbow cake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. You can prepare the bases the day before and store them under a glass dome. The yogurt cream can be kept in the refrigerator in a bowl covered with plastic wrap for 1-2 days. You can freeze the whole cake or the colored sponge cakes and thaw in the refrigerator as needed.
To make this cake even more magical and imaginative, you can add colorful sprinkles to garnish the surface!

