name:
Zeppole with Two Creams
ingredients:
Water: 1cup(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Fine salt: ½tsp(3 g)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Dark chocolate: 1.75oz(50 g)
Cornstarch: 5 ½tbsp(45 g)
Egg yolks: 2.7oz(75 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Sugar: 0.7cup(140 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the zeppole with two creams, start by making the base of the pastry cream: heat the milk in a saucepan and flavor it with the vanilla pod and the extracted seeds , let it come to a boil. Meanwhile, in a bowl, pour sugar and egg yolks .
Add the cornstarch and mix well. At this point, the milk will be hot; remove the pod and pour it into the bowl . Mix well .
Return the mixture to the saucepan where you heated the milk and thicken the cream by stirring continuously . As soon as it reaches the right consistency, divide the creams into two bowls .
In one of the two, add the chocolate, in drops or chopped , and mix immediately . At this point, cover with cling film and let cool completely in the refrigerator .
Meanwhile, move on to preparing the zeppole starting with the choux pastry. In a thick-bottomed steel saucepan, pour the water , butter , and salt . Turn on the stove and let it heat up.
When the butter is melted, pour in the flour in one go and mix immediately with the spoon . Cook for 1-2 minutes or until the mixture coats the base and becomes a compact mass .
Pour the dough into the mixer . If you don't have one, you can use electric beaters, and while activating the paddle, pour one egg at a time . Work until the mixture becomes compact and soft .
With a spoon dipped in hot oil, take a portion of dough and pour it into the pot where you heated the oil to 320°F . This temperature will allow the zeppole to brown on the surface and cook internally in 4-5 minutes . Remember to cook a few pieces at a time.
As you go, drain on absorbent paper , and when you've finished, obtaining about 30 zeppole, roll in a bowl with sugar . The creams should be cold; whisk them vigorously with a whisk before transferring them into two piping bags with a pointed tip to pierce the zeppole .
Then proceed by filling one half with the light cream and the other with the dark cream . Your zeppole with two creams are ready .
It is advisable to consume the zeppole with two creams immediately or to store them for a maximum of one day in the fridge, in an airtight container.
You can store the pastry cream in the fridge for about 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can try a lemon cream for a fresh contrast, a hazelnut cream for a richer and more enveloping taste, or a coffee cream for a decisive and aromatic flavor that perfectly matches the sweetness of the zeppole.

