name:
Struffoli with milk creams
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Honey: ¾cup(250 g)
Condensed milk: 0.3cup(100 g)
Butter: 4 ¼tbsp(60 g)
Eggs: 2
Egg yolks: 1
Orange peel: - half
Lemon peel: - half
Fine salt: 1pinch
Blueberries: ¾cup(125 g)
Raspberries: 1cup(125 g)
Condensed milk: 0.4cup(120 g)
Mango: 1
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the cream-covered struffoli, start with the dough: place the sifted flour in a bowl, grate the lemon zest and the orange zest . Then add the eggs to the center ,
the butter , a pinch of salt, and the condensed milk .
Knead vigorously (6-7) and, once you have a homogeneous and fairly compact mixture, shape it into a ball and cover it with plastic wrap , let it rest for at least half an hour. After the resting time, work the dough again for a few minutes and divide it into many sticks less than a finger thick, rolling them on a slightly floured surface. At this point, cut the sticks into small pieces and place them on a cloth, being careful not to overlap them.
Once ready, put the oil in a pan and fry your struffoli a little at a time ; for optimal cooking the oil should be about 340°F-355°F. When the struffoli appear puffed and golden but not particularly colored to prevent them from burning, drain them and let them cool on paper towels .
Now take care of the creams: put the blueberries in the blender cup and blend them , pass the obtained mixture through a sieve to obtain a smooth sauce .
Pour 1.4 oz of condensed milk into the sauce and mix to combine the mixture. Proceed in the same way with the raspberries: blend them in the blender , pass the mixture through a sieve
and then incorporate 1.4 oz of condensed milk . Finally, prepare the mango cream: cut the fruit into wedges , blend it in the blender
and add 1.4 oz of condensed milk here too . Now prepare the caramel to coat the struffoli: heat the honey in a pan over low heat until you get a smooth sauce ,
pour the struffoli and mix to combine the syrup . At this point, you can assemble the dish: pour the 3 sauces onto 3 different plates, place the struffoli on top , and finally garnish the surface with colorful sprinkles . Your struffoli with milk creams are ready to be enjoyed!
Struffoli with milk creams should be consumed as soon as they are made. If there are leftovers, store them in the refrigerator, covered, for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Try other flavor combinations by creating other fruit creams with currants or blackberries or accompany the struffoli with a Pastry cream perhaps flavored with lemon!

