name:
Stale bread gnocchi
ingredients:
Stale bread: 9.2oz(260 g)- (without crust)
Whole milk: 1cup(240 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- (to grate)
Eggs: 2
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Tomato purée: 3 ¼cups(750 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Water: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make stale bread gnocchi, start by preparing the sauce: in a saucepan, heat some oil with 2 cloves of garlic, then add the tomato puree and a little water, just enough to rinse the jug. Add salt , stir, and cover with the lid . Cook on low heat for about 40 minutes, stirring occasionally.
In the meantime, work on the gnocchi: take the stale bread, from which you have removed the crust, and cut it first into slices and then into cubes . Transfer the bread cubes into a bowl and soak them with milk .
Crumble the soaked bread with your fingertips ; if the bread is very dry, you may need to let it rest for about fifteen minutes, working it from time to time to fully crumble it. Add the grated Grana Padano PDO and eggs .
Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg , then mix the mixture with your hands. Finally, add the flour and work quickly, just enough to obtain a homogeneous dough .
Sprinkle the work surface with a little flour and take one portion of dough at a time , shaping it to form logs. Cut the logs into pieces using a dough scraper , then round them to form balls . Gradually place the gnocchi on a lightly floured tray.
When the sauce is ready, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the gnocchi in 2 batches . Drain the gnocchi as soon as they float to the top and transfer them into the pan with the sauce , then mix gently .
Flavor with pepper and basil leaves, then plate. Drizzle the dishes with a little oil and garnish with a few basil leaves : your stale bread gnocchi are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the stale bread gnocchi as soon as they are ready.
Raw gnocchi can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day. Cooked gnocchi can be stored for 2-3 days in an airtight container.
You can reheat leftover gnocchi in the oven "alla sorrentina," with the addition of mozzarella and parmesan!
Stale bread gnocchi are also excellent with a simple butter and sage sauce, a cheese fondue, or a vegetable ragù.
For the gnocchi dough, you can also use whole wheat bread. Depending on how dry the bread used is, you will need more or less time to soften it.
Do not throw away the crust of the stale bread but use it to make homemade breadcrumbs!

