name:
Nutella Plumcake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Nutella: 0.36cup(100 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Honey: 2 ½tbsp(50 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 5tbsp(25 g)
Eggs: 5- at room temperature
Baking powder: 3tsp(12 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the Nutella plumcake, place room temperature eggs, honey , sugar , and a pinch of salt into a large bowl and beat the mixture with an electric whisk
until you obtain a frothy and pale cream (alternatively, you can use a stand mixer). Separately, sift the flour, baking powder, and unsweetened cocoa powder , then add the sifted powders to the egg mixture ,
stir with a spoon to combine the ingredients. Melt the butter in a saucepan or microwave , incorporate the Nutella into the melted butter and stir to melt the Nutella and obtain a smooth, lump-free cream.
Fold the Nutella cream into the batter, stirring with a spatula (10-11). The base of the plumcake is ready, butter a 11 x 4.5 inch plumcake mold and line it with parchment paper; for best results, cut sheets of parchment paper to the same size as the bottom and edges so the paper adheres well without creating wrinkles .
Pour the batter into the mold , level the surface with a spatula , and bake the plumcake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 45-50 minutes (320°F for 40-45 minutes if using a fan oven). Once baked, remove the Nutella plumcake from the oven, wait for it to cool before turning out the mold to remove it . Your delicious Nutella plumcake is ready, now just slice generous pieces and enjoy!
Store the Nutella plumcake under a glass dome for 2-3 days. You can freeze the plumcake after baking, perhaps dividing it into portions so you can defrost only the needed amount.
If the aforementioned molten Nutella heart is too much for you, but you're still in the mood for something sweet, you can fill the mold halfway, add some Nutella 'streaks' with a spoon, and then finish filling it with the remaining batter.

