name:
Savory Baba
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1 ¼cup(160 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(120 ml)
Brewer's yeast: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Manitoba flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Butter: 5.25oz(150 g)- softened
Fresh liquid cream: 0.42cup(100 ml)
Eggs: 14.1oz(400 g)- (about 8)
Prosciutto cotto: 5.3oz(150 g)- diced
Salami: 5.3oz(150 g)- diced
Provola cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)- diced
Gaeta olives: 2.8oz(80 g)- pitted
Fontina cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- to grate
Fine salt: 1.8tsp(10 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Rosemary: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Chives: to taste
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for the pre-dough and the baba dough

instructions:
To prepare the savory baba, start with the starter: pour the lukewarm milk into a small bowl and add the dry brewer's yeast (or alternatively 12 g of fresh brewer's yeast) . Stir to dissolve it completely. In a stand mixer, pour the flour (Manitoba or all-purpose) previously sifted and add the milk in which you dissolved the brewer's yeast ; knead with your hands in the bowl, then transfer the dough to a lightly floured surface to work it for a few moments: you should form a small ball, and the dough should be very soft and smooth. Place it in the bowl and cover with plastic wrap; let it rise for about 2 hours in an off oven with the light on until it doubles in volume. In the meantime, you can prepare the filling and dice the salami, cooked ham, fontina, and provola. You can also chop the aromatic herbs and pit the Gaeta olives.
After the 2 hours have passed, take the starter and place it in the bowl of a stand mixer; pour the fresh liquid cream gradually and 4 whole eggs or beaten (you can beat them before adding them to the dough to weigh them more easily). Then add the sifted flour (Manitoba or all-purpose), a little at a time , as you run the stand mixer. Once the flour has been incorporated, you can attach the spiral hook .
Then add the sugar and grated pecorino cheese to the dough. At this point, let the hook work: the dough should be kneaded until it wraps around the hook. Then you can add the softened butter in small pieces , incorporating one piece at a time and waiting for the previous one to be absorbed before adding the next one. Then also add the salt , then the other 4 eggs at room temperature, one at a time (or gradually if you have beaten them) , and continue working the dough to incorporate them.
You should obtain a very soft and elastic dough . You can stop the stand mixer and add the filling: the Gaeta olives , the aromatic herbs ,
the diced cheeses , the cooked ham, and the salami . Turn on the stand mixer again to mix the ingredients homogeneously into the dough .
Now that the dough is ready , you can butter a savarin mold with a diameter of 22-24 cm (8.66-9.45 inches) and pour the mixture inside, letting it rise for another hour in an off oven with the light on . After the necessary time has passed, you can bake the savory baba in a static oven preheated to 356°F (180°C) for about an hour (if using a convection oven, at 320°F (160°C) for 50-55 minutes). Then take your savory baba out of the oven , and when it is cool, turn it out and remove it onto a wire rack. You can accompany the savory baba with a savory zabaglione cream, which you can find by clicking here: savory zabaglione.
You can store the cooked savory baba in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for a week; in the freezer for 60 days. The dough can be frozen before the second rising. If necessary, it can be thawed in the refrigerator and then brought to room temperature for at least 2 hours before baking it.
You can make the filling of the savory baba as you prefer, giving more flavor using spicy salami or replacing it with speck, for example.
The "baba" is a dessert of ancient Polish origin, but the name comes from the East. It seems that a Polish king passionate about the tales of the Thousand and One Nights wanted to create a dessert dedicated to Ali Baba, one of the main characters.

