name:
Sweet and Quick Pie Pops Perfect for Snack Time
ingredients:
Caciocavallo cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 1.8oz(50 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 1.75oz(50 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Water: 1.2oz(35 ml)- chilled
Triple concentrated tomato paste: 1spoonful
Fine salt: to taste
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Water: 2 ½tbsp(35 ml)- chilled
Garlic: 1clove
Spinach: 1 ½cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Egg whites: 1
Poppy seeds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 26 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the pie pops, start by preparing the red shortcrust pastry following our recipe for Tomato shortcrust pastry : mix the tomato paste in the ice-cold water . Proceed with the rubbing-in method: place the sifted flour, cold butter, and a pinch of salt in a mixer and blend until you get a sandy mixture. Place the mixture on a work surface in the classic fountain shape and add the tomato paste diluted in water to the center , knead everything quickly until you get a compact dough. Once ready, wrap your shortcrust pastry in a sheet of plastic wrap and let it rest in the fridge for at least 40 minutes.
Now focus on the green shortcrust pastry: sauté the spinach with a drizzle of oil and a clove of garlic , when they are soft, transfer them to the mixer and blend them with the amount of cold water that should be added to the flour, which is 35 ml . Continue by rubbing the flour and butter in a mixer ,
then pour the mixture onto a work surface and add the chopped spinach , knead to combine the ingredients , then form a dough ball, wrap it with plastic wrap , and place it in the refrigerator to set for about 40 minutes. Now prepare the filling: chop the caciocavallo and ham, pat the tomatoes with absorbent paper to remove excess oil, and then cut them into small pieces as well.
At this point, everything is ready to assemble the pie pops: take the tomato shortcrust pastry dough, roll it out with a rolling pin until you get a 1/16 inch thick sheet, cut out the desired shapes with cookie cutters , making sure they are double, brush the dough cutout with the egg white, fill the center with sun-dried tomatoes and caciocavallo ,
place a food stick in the middle , then close it with another cutout of the same shape . Set the pie pops aside on a baking tray lined with parchment paper .
Proceed the same way with the green shortcrust pastry: roll out a sheet about 1/16 inch thick , brush it with egg and fill it with the caciocavallo and cooked ham filling . Close it with another dough cutout .
If you want to make the pie pops even more colorful, you can cut out small shapes to apply to the pie pops, alternating colors to create a nice contrast . Before baking them, brush the pie pops with egg white
and if desired, garnish them with poppy seeds , then bake them in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 15 minutes (if using a fan oven, at 320°F for 5-10 minutes). Once cooked, let the pie pops cool slightly and then serve them by sticking them in a vase as if they were delicious little flowers !
Store the pie pops under a glass dome for a couple of days. You can freeze the two raw doughs, then defrost them in the fridge before using.
Have fun filling the pie pops with your preferred fillings: olives, provola, speck are just some of the possible variations you can experiment with!

