name:
Baked Gnocchi Skewers
ingredients:
Butter: 4 ½tbsp(65 g)
Montasio cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)- floury
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Potatoes: 0.8lb(350 g)- mealy
Spinach: 6.7cups(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 25 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the baked gnocchi skewers, start by preparing the white gnocchi (for more details, see the Potato gnocchi recipe). Wash the potatoes and, without peeling them, place them in a pot with salted water and let them boil for about 25-30 minutes until they become soft, then drain them .
While still hot, peel them , mash them with a potato masher and place them on a work surface with the flour
make a small well and add the salt , the egg yolk in the center and knead everything until you get a compact dough. Knead until you obtain a compact, smooth dough without lumps .
Divide the dough into logs about 1 inch thick and start cutting your gnocchi . Finally, create the characteristic ridges of the gnocchi by rolling each piece on a gnocchi board or fork . Now, take care of the green gnocchi (for all details, see the recipe: Green gnocchetti ) wash the spinach and cook them in a little salted water . In another pot, cook the potatoes by boiling them with the skin, as you did previously with the classic gnocchi.
Once cooked, drain the spinach and squeeze them well using a sieve (13-14), then chop them finely with a knife .
On a board, place the flour, spinach , peeled and mashed potatoes, and knead everything until you obtain a compact dough .
Continue as you did before: divide the dough into logs about 1 inch thick and start cutting your gnocchi with a pasta cutter . Finally, create the typical ridges . As you make them, place the finished gnocchi on a tray covered with a floured cloth. Separately, grate the Montasio and Grana.
Cook all the white gnocchi in salted water with a drop of olive oil , drain them when they float to the surface, it will take a couple of minutes, then drain them , place them in a bowl and dress with a drizzle of olive oil .
Cook the green gnocchi in the same way, then drain them , place them in a bowl and dress with a little oil . At this point, you can assemble the skewers: take a wooden skewer and alternate the white and green gnocchi .
then brush with melted butter a baking tray large enough to hold the skewers . Lay the skewers on the tray and brush the surface with more melted butter and grated cheeses . Grill in a preheated oven with the grill function for 10 minutes at 430°F. Once cooked, remove the baked gnocchi skewers from the oven and serve them hot.
It is recommended to consume the baked gnocchi skewers immediately. You can make the gnocchi the day before and store them in the fridge on a floured cloth, then proceed with cooking before serving. The gnocchi can be frozen raw on a tray, and once frozen, transfer them to freezer bags.
You can make the skewers with your preferred gnocchi, such as pumpkin gnocchi, ham gnocchi, squid ink gnocchi, or ricotta gnocchi.

