name:
Tartlets with caramelized onions and stracciatella
ingredients:
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Water: 4 ¾tbsp(70 ml)- chilled
Tomato paste: 3tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Stracciatella cheese: 2cups(250 g)
Red Tropea onions: 2
Anchovies in oil: 6
Caper berries: 6
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Brown sugar: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the tartlets with caramelized onions and stracciatella, start by preparing the base dough following our recipe for Tomato shortcrust pastry . To prepare the tomato shortcrust pastry, start by mixing the tomato paste in the ice-cold water (1-2). Proceed with the sandblasting technique: place the sifted flour, cold butter pieces from the fridge , a pinch of salt in a mixer, and blend everything until you get a sandy-looking mixture.
Place the obtained mixture on a floured surface in the classic fountain shape and add the tomato paste diluted in water to the center , knead everything quickly until you get a compact, firm, and fairly elastic dough. Once ready, wrap your shortcrust pastry in a sheet of kitchen film and let it rest in the fridge for at least 40 minutes.
After 40 minutes, the shortcrust pastry will be ready to use. Place the shortcrust pastry dough on a lightly floured surface and roll it out with a rolling pin to a very thin thickness, about 1/8 inch, butter and flour the chosen tart molds for baking and lay the pastry over the mold ,
make it adhere well and prick the bottom of the pastry with the tines of a fork . Now proceed with blind baking following our guide How to do blind baking . Place dried legumes or suitable weights like ceramic balls inside the mold . Bake the pastry for about 15 minutes in a preheated oven at 350°F. Once baked, remove it from the oven, eliminate the weights, and let it cool .
Prepare the filling: slice the onions and put them in a pan where you have melted the butter, let them soften slightly, then add the brown sugar and cook gently until they are caramelized .
Proceed with the filling: place a layer of caramelized onions . Take the burrata and extract the stracciatella, drain it so it is as dry as possible, then shred it and place it on the tartlets , add a rolled anchovy in the center, and finally a caper flower . Your tartlets with caramelized onions and stracciatella are ready to be enjoyed.
Store the tartlets in the refrigerator for no more than one day. It is recommended to freeze only the shortcrust pastry dough and not the finished preparation.
You can color the shortcrust pastry differently by using beetroot to obtain a purple color, spinach for green, and saffron if you want a golden yellow. You can vary the filling according to your taste and fill the tartlets with other delicious ingredients such as olives and sun-dried tomatoes.

