name:
Peppa Pig Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1cup(115 g)
Potato starch: 1cup(115 g)
Sugar: 1 ⅛cup(225 g)
Eggs: 8- medium
Fine salt: 1pinch
Whole milk: 2cups(500 ml)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Egg yolks: 6
Vanilla bean: 1
Powdered sugar: 4cups(500 g)
Glucose: 1.75oz(50 g)
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)
Glycerine: 1 ½tsp(10 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.2oz(5 g)
Food coloring: to taste- (in gel or paste) red, black, pink, purple
Egg whites: 1
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Food coloring: to taste- (in gel or paste)
Water: 0.85cup(200 ml)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Mandarin orange flavoring: 1tsp(5 g)
Apricot jam: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 3 h
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average

instructions:
For the Peppa Pig cake, start with the Sponge cake : separate the egg whites from the yolks and beat the yolks with half of the sugar to obtain a frothy, puffy, and light yellow mixture (using a whisk or stand mixer). Also, beat the egg whites until glossy, and after about 5 minutes, when they are already quite puffy and white, add the remaining sugar . Combine the whipped egg whites with the whipped yolks and mix to combine the ingredients; add the sifted flour and potato starch along with the seeds from the vanilla bean. Mix everything with a wooden spoon until you get a homogeneous mixture, being careful not to deflate it; butter and flour an 11x14 inch pan and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 25 minutes.
Remove the sponge cake, let it cool, then turn it out onto a wooden board. Now download the Peppa Pig template by clicking here. With a knife, cut the sponge cake following the shape of the face and separately cut out the ears . Divide the ears into two layers .
Also, divide the template ; separately, prepare the syrup: in a saucepan, bring the water, sugar, and a few drops of mandarin flavor to a boil, stirring with a wooden spoon (8-9).
With the syrup, moisten all the layers of sponge cake. Then prepare the Pastry cream : in a saucepan, heat the milk (keeping about half a cup aside) with the seeds from the vanilla bean; bring everything to a gentle boil, then remove the saucepan from the heat and let the vanilla steep in the milk for about 10 minutes. In a separate bowl, work the yolks with the sugar using an electric beater to obtain a frothy and whitish cream; continuing to beat, slowly pour in a third of the warm milk from the saucepan . At this point, incorporate the sifted flour, adding it gradually. Remove the vanilla bean left in the milk and pour the egg, flour, sugar, and milk mixture back into the same saucepan.
Put everything back on the heat and bring to a boil, stirring frequently ; let it simmer over low heat for a few minutes to thicken, continuously beating with the whisk to prevent lumps from forming. Now take the half cup of cold milk set aside and slowly add it to the custard cream, stirring occasionally. Turn off the heat and let cool, covering the cream with plastic wrap in contact. When it is cool, mix with a whisk then spread it on one layer of sponge cake .
Perfectly match the other sponge cake disc over the cream layer , then brush the surface with apricot jam. Then focus on the Sugar paste : soak the gelatin in cold water to soften it; heat the glucose (or honey) in a thick-bottomed saucepan together with the water, without bringing it to a boil; squeeze the gelatin and add it to the syrup with the glucose. Now sift the powdered sugar into a bowl and add the glucose and glycerin, kneading until completely absorbed. Transfer the mixture to a work surface dusted with powdered sugar and continue working it until smooth and uniform and no longer sticky. At this point, using disposable gloves, color 2/3 of the sugar paste with pink colorant ; work the dough until the colorant is absorbed and the color is uniform; roll out the pink sugar paste thinly with a rolling pin .
Place it on the Peppa Pig template with the help of the rolling pin (for this operation, you can consult the guide: How to cover a cake with fondant ); make the edges and surface adhere perfectly, then cut and keep the excess parts . Keep a small piece of white sugar paste for the eyes; add more colorant on a portion of sugar paste to make the cheek and the base of the eyes a bright pink color: you can get the cheek by making a disc with a small knife while for the base of the eyes, use a 1.5-inch diameter round cutter .
Mix some purple colorant on a small piece of sugar paste to make the nose, creating two discs with a 0.4-inch diameter round cutter , then add black colorant to a piece of white sugar paste for the pupils, obtained again with a 0.4-inch diameter round cutter .
Color another piece of sugar paste red and form a thin roll for Peppa Pig's mouth. With the remaining white sugar paste, cut the whites of the eyes with a 1.2-inch diameter round cutter ; now brush all parts with sugar paste with some water and start assembling the face: adhere the base of the eyes and Peppa Pig's cheek .
Attach the nose, mouth, and whites of the eyes , finish with the pupils . Make the royal icing: in the mixer bowl, work the egg white and powdered sugar and gradually add food colors to achieve the right dark pink tone .
Pour the royal icing into a pastry bag with an oblique nozzle and make the edge of Peppa Pig's snout and nose . Then fill the ears with custard cream or apricot jam, then cover them with pink sugar paste, removing the excess (32-33).
Place the ears close to Peppa Pig's head and decorate them with royal icing as for the rest of the snout. Your Peppa Pig cake is ready to be devoured !
Store the Peppa Pig cake in the refrigerator for 1-2 days at most, covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container. The cream can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap in contact, for a maximum of 1 day. The sugar paste can be stored in the refrigerator wrapped in plastic wrap for 2-3 days. It is not recommended to freeze the complete cake, nor the individual preparations.
You can buy 14 oz of white sugar paste and then color it. You can also make the Cocoa sponge cake if preferred by your children, or fill the cake differently with chocolate custard cream, for example!

