name:
Waffle sandwich
ingredients:
Whole milk: 2cups(500 ml)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: 1.67tbsp(20 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Baking powder: 1 ¾tsp(8 g)
Eggs: 2
Fine salt: to taste
Chives: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Prosciutto cotto: 5.3oz(150 g)
Mustard: 3spoonfuls
Salad: to taste
Mozzarella cheese: 2 ¾cups(300 g)
Bresaola: 5.3oz(150 g)
Piccadilly tomatoes: 4

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + resting the dough in the refrigerator

instructions:
To make the waffle sandwiches, place the sifted flour, baking powder , and sugar in a bowl. Pour in the milk while stirring with a whisk .
Separate the yolks from the whites and add them to the mixture , adding pepper to taste and grated nutmeg .
Also add the chopped chives . At this point, cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let the mixture rest in the refrigerator for a couple of hours. In the meantime, prepare the ingredients for the fillings: lettuce, slices of cooked ham, mustard, bresaola. Then slice the mozzarella
and wash and slice the tomatoes as well . Now beat the egg whites with a pinch of salt and whip them until stiff peaks form (11-12).
After the resting time, take the waffle batter and add the melted butter and the egg whites, stirring with a spatula from top to bottom to avoid deflating them . Proceed with cooking: heat a waffle iron , pour the batter into the mold using a ladle
Close the iron and cook for about 5 minutes or for the time indicated by your iron: the waffles should be golden brown . Once cooked, remove them from the mold and let them cool slightly. Take 6 waffles and fill 3 with tomato, mozzarella
and bresaola . Close with another waffle to make the sandwiches . Season another 3 waffles with mustard ,
lettuce, and a slice of cooked ham ; cover these with another waffle as well . Your waffle sandwiches are ready to be enjoyed with company !
It is recommended to consume the filled waffles immediately and to store them in the refrigerator for up to a day. Alternatively, you can store the unfilled waffles under a glass dome for a couple of days.
You can flavor the waffle batter with other aromatic herbs like parsley or thyme. As for the filling, unleash your creativity by choosing the most delicious ingredients: speck and brie or smoked salmon, prosciutto, and robiola are just some of the possible taste combinations!

