name:
Pasteis de nata
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Vegetable margarine: 6.2oz(175 g)
Water: 0.625cup(150 g)- at room temperature
Fine salt: 1pinch
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Sugar: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Water: 1.1cups(250 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(64 g)
Cornstarch: 4tsp(10 g)
Egg yolks: 6
Eggs: 2
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Lemon peel: to taste
Water: ¼cup(50 g)- hot
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Vegetable margarine: to taste- to grease the molds
Cinnamon powder: to taste- (optional)
Powdered sugar: to taste- (optional)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + chilling time in the refrigerator (about 1 h total)

instructions:
To make the pasteis de nata, start with preparing the puff pastry: place the block of margarine between 2 sheets of parchment paper , then roll it out with a rolling pin to a thickness of about 0.4 inches . Fold the parchment paper on all sides to form a package and refrigerate for 15 minutes.
In the meantime, place the flour in a mound on the work surface , then add the salt . Pour in the water gradually in the center, using your fingers to gradually incorporate the flour .
Continue to blend the mixture with your hands and knead until you get a smooth and homogeneous ball . Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 15 minutes .
After this time, roll out the dough on a floured surface to form a rectangle a few millimeters thick , then take the block of margarine and place it in the center of the dough .
Fold the lower edge of the dough over the margarine , then fold the upper edge as well (do the same with the side edges if the margarine rectangle is narrower than the dough). Roll out the obtained rectangle slightly with the rolling pin .
Now proceed with the folds: fold the lower edge of the rectangle towards the center again , then overlap the upper edge and roll out the dough with the rolling pin . Repeat this operation 3 times.
After finishing the folds, slightly moisten the surface of the rectangle and roll it up gently from the longer side . Wrap the roll in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 15 minutes . Meanwhile, take care of the cream, starting with preparing the syrup: pour the water and sugar into a saucepan .
Add the lemon peel and cinnamon , then boil for a couple of minutes .
Filter the syrup and let it cool at room temperature. In another saucepan, combine the flour with corn starch and salt .
Mix the powders with a whisk , then gradually pour in the milk, continuing to stir to avoid lumps . Put the saucepan on the stove and let it thicken gently .
When the cream has thickened, remove the saucepan from the heat and add the syrup in 4 parts , always continuing to stir . Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 15 minutes .
Meanwhile, take the puff pastry roll and cut it into 20 pieces . You will now need tapered molds with a height of 0.8 inches, measuring 2.4 inches at the base and 3.5 inches on the surface. Grease the aluminum molds with margarine, place a slice of puff pastry in the center , and press it with your thumbs from the inside out to entirely cover the mold . Proceed in this way to line all the molds and place them on a baking tray.
Take the cream from the refrigerator and add the yolks and whole eggs , then mix well with the whisk .
Transfer the cream to a jug and pour it into the molds, being careful not to fill them to the brim . Bake in a fan oven at 482°F for about 25-30 minutes on the central rack, then move the tray to the top rack and continue baking for another 5 minutes to darken them. Once cooked, remove the pasteis from the oven and glaze the surface with a solution you prepared earlier by mixing hot water and sugar . Garnish as desired with cinnamon or powdered sugar and enjoy your delicious pasteis de nata !
Pasteis de nata can be stored at room temperature for a couple of days, covered with a dome.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can replace the margarine with the same amount of butter.
The puff pastry should be worked at a temperature not exceeding 68°F-72°F; if the temperature of the room where you work the dough is higher, we recommend cooling the dough in the refrigerator for about 15 minutes after each fold, wrapped in plastic wrap.
Directly from Lisbon, one of the sweet delicacies that immediately makes us feel in Portugal: Pastel de Nata, the sweet of the soul! They can be tasted in all their uniqueness and genuineness at Pasteis&Caffè, which has opened in Milan, thanks to Giovanni Riccioli's great passion for that land and those flavors. The famous flaky baskets filled with a delicious cream with an unmistakable burnt and shiny crust become delicacies that can be tasted even in the Farini area or on the Navigli, thanks to the two outlets.

