name:
Sole roulade with cauliflower cream
ingredients:
Sole: 1.3lbs(600 g)- fillets
Fine salt: to taste
Cauliflower: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to clean)
Water: 2cups(500 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: 5tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6 ¼tbsp(100 g)
Cauliflower: 2cups(200 g)
Marjoram: to taste
Wild fennel: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the sole roulade with cauliflower cream, first clean the cauliflower and cut it into large pieces . In a saucepan, heat a bit of oil with a clove of garlic, then add the cauliflower and let it brown. Salt and pepper, then cover the cauliflower with water .
Cook over medium-high heat for about 10 minutes or until it softens , then blend with an immersion blender to obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream . Set aside.
Move on to the parsley sauce: pluck the parsley , then blanch it in slightly salted boiling water . Drain the parsley in a bowl with ice water , being careful to keep the cooking water because it will be needed to cook the sole.
Squeeze the parsley leaves well and transfer them to a bowl. Add the oil and blend with an immersion blender .
Once you have obtained a smooth sauce , strain it through a sieve and set aside .
Now focus on the sole: lay 2 sheets of plastic wrap on the work surface , then place 2-3 sole fillets and roll everything tightly . You should form a cylinder about 6 inches long .
Wrap the ends of the cylinder like a candy and cut off the excess wrap . Proceed in this way to form 3 more cylinders. Poke holes in the wrap and place the cylinders in a steamer positioned over the pot with the parsley cooking water ; you can insert a damp cloth between the pot and the steamer to prevent the steam from escaping. Close the steamer with the lid and cook for about 5-6 minutes.
Meanwhile, finely slice the raw cauliflower with a mandoline . After the cooking time, remove the wrap .
Divide each cylinder into 4 parts . You are ready to plate: spread a couple of tablespoons of cauliflower cream at the base , then lay the sole roulades and garnish with the parsley sauce and raw cauliflower shavings. Finally, garnish with some fennel and marjoram leaves. Your sole roulade with cauliflower cream is ready to be served !
We recommend consuming the sole roulade with cauliflower cream immediately.
The cauliflower cream and parsley sauce can be prepared in advance and stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.

