name:
Fake Sweet Plumcake
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(100 ml)
Whole milk: 0.4cup(100 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 ml)
Eggs: 3- medium
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Prosciutto cotto: 3.5oz(100 g)- diced
Peas: ½cup(70 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 1.75oz(50 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 5 ¼tsp(15 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 7oz(200 g)- to grate
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅓cup(50 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the fake sweet plumcake, start by sifting the flour into a bowl, then add the baking powder for savory preparations . Then add the grated cheeses , peas, and diced cooked ham .
Add the cubed caciocavallo, then drain and pat dry the sun-dried tomatoes on kitchen paper to remove excess oil; then cut them into pieces and add them to the other ingredients . Stir the mixture with a wooden spoon and set it aside. In the meantime, in another small bowl, pour the eggs, add the milk and cream .
and mix the ingredients with a whisk . When you have whipped the eggs, add the oil in a thin stream , mix everything and salt and pepper to taste .
Sprinkle with grated nutmeg , mix and add the beaten eggs with the milk to the other dry ingredients . Mix everything with the wooden spoon and transfer it into a greased and parchment-lined 10x4 inch plumcake mold , leveling the mixture with a spatula. Bake the fake sweet plumcake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40 minutes (320°F for 30-35 minutes if using a fan oven).
Once cooked, take it out of the oven and allow it to cool before removing from the mold. While the plumcake is baking, prepare the Parmigiano Cream : in a saucepan, add the butter and melt it over low heat. Then add the sifted flour in a steady stream .
and stir with a whisk and let the flour turn golden to obtain a roux . At this point, add the grated nutmeg and the previously heated milk in a thin stream, continuing to mix with the whisk , then also add the grated Parmesan .
When the cream has thickened , turn off the heat and cover it with cling film to keep it from drying out. You can unmold the fake sweet plumcake onto a serving plate and glaze it with this delicious Parmesan cream (20-21)!
Store the plumcake without cream under a glass dome for 2-3 days, with the cream in the refrigerator. If you think you won't consume it all, you can garnish the individual slices or the portion you will consume with the Parmesan cream. You can store the Parmesan cream in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for 1-2 days. You can freeze the preparations if you have used fresh, not defrosted ingredients.
Is the Parmesan sauce too thick? Dilute it with a bit of milk or cream! And for the filling... let your imagination run wild, following one rule: the more colorful the plumcake, the tastier the filling will be!

