name:
Lasagna with octopus ragù
ingredients:
Thin egg Lasagne pasta: 17.5oz(500 g)
Octopus: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Carrots: 1- medium
Onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Parsley: 1tuft
Fine salt: to taste
Cherry tomatoes: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Sugar: 1tbsp(15 g)
Oregano: to taste- dry
Thyme: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Zucchini: 6 ½cups(800 g)
Pine nuts: 1cup(120 g)
Almond slices: 0.67cup(60 g)
Basil: 12tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 3 h
Serving: 8

instructions:
To prepare the lasagna with octopus ragù, start with the Cherry Tomatoes Confit : wash and halve the cherry tomatoes, distribute them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper with the cut side facing up; salt and pepper to taste. At this point, prepare a mix of thyme and oregano and sprinkle it on the cherry tomatoes ; also add the sugar . Finally, drizzle with a little oil and bake in a preheated static oven at 285°F for about 2 hours, until the cherry tomatoes' water has evaporated, and they are slightly roasted but not dry .
While the confit cherry tomatoes are cooking, focus on the Zucchini pesto : grate the zucchinis , place them in a colander, add salt to help them lose excess liquid . Meanwhile, put the basil leaves, almonds, pine nuts, extra virgin olive oil, and garlic in the food processor .
Add the grated Grana Padano and blend everything; add a drizzle of oil and a pinch of salt to taste. Add the drained zucchinis , pour another drizzle of oil , and complete the pesto with a final pulse of the blades .
Now focus on the octopus ragù, starting with the How to Clean and Cook Octopus : rinse it under running water, then place it on a cutting board and with a knife, cut the sac at eye level to remove them. Then remove the octopus's beak: with a small knife, start cutting around the mouth ; tenderize the octopus meat by pounding it with a meat mallet . Then remove the innards from the sac and wash it thoroughly;
Now you can proceed with the cooking: bring water to a boil in a large pot and immerse the octopus ; cook it for about 40 minutes (for every 500 g of octopus, it takes 20 minutes of cooking). While it cooks, you can remove the residues and foam from the cooking water surface with a slotted spoon. Before draining it, pierce the meat with the tines of a fork to check if it is the right time to remove it from the heat . Once cooked, you can drain it and let it cool slightly .
Then transfer it to a cutting board and start cutting it: separate the head from the tentacles and set it aside, cut the tentacles into more or less large pieces . Also, cut the head into strips. Then prepare the ingredients for the soffritto, celery, carrot , and onion.
Pour the chopped vegetables into the pan with a drizzle of oil and sauté, adding a little water to facilitate cooking and prevent the vegetables from burning . After about 10 minutes, add the chopped octopus pieces .
Salt, pepper to taste and deglaze with white wine . Cook for about 20-25 minutes, then turn off the heat and sprinkle with freshly chopped parsley . Now that all the ingredients are ready, take a 20x30 cm baking dish, grease it with a little oil, and create a layer with the zucchini pesto .
Lay 3 sheets on the bottom and cover with another layer of pesto and a layer of octopus ragù; lastly, distribute some confit cherry tomatoes .
Continue with the sheets , the pesto, the octopus ragù, and the confit cherry tomatoes until the ingredients are used up (you should finish with a layer of pesto, octopus ragù, and confit cherry tomatoes). Bake the lasagna in a preheated static oven at 355°F for 40 minutes (if using a fan oven, 320°F for 30-35 minutes). Once cooked, take them out and serve the lasagna with octopus ragù hot or warm!
You can store the lasagna with octopus ragù covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for 1-2 days. They can be prepared the day before, kept in the fridge covered with plastic wrap, and cooked the next day. They can be frozen, only if all fresh ingredients have been used, preferably uncooked: to cook them, it will be enough to thaw them in the fridge about 24 hours before and then cook them in the oven.
Do you want to change the type of fish? Try with prawns or gurnard, excellent alternatives to pair with zucchini pesto and confit cherry tomatoes!

