name:
Fregola with clams and chickpeas
ingredients:
Fregola pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Dried chickpeas: ½cup(100 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 0.8cup(200 g)
Parsley: 2spoonfuls- to chop
Rosemary: 1sprig
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Tomato paste: 1spoonful- double
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note plus the soaking and cooking time for the chickpeas

instructions:
To prepare fregola with clams and chickpeas, you must have rehydrated the chickpeas for at least 12 hours (or an entire night) in a bowl filled with water . Then drain the chickpeas, which will be rehydrated after soaking, and cook them in salted water until they are tender (it will take about a couple of hours) (alternatively, you can cook the still dry chickpeas with salt and rosemary in a pressure cooker for about 50 minutes). Take care of the clams, rinse them and then leave them in a colander with a bowl underneath under a trickle of running water for about 30 minutes to eliminate the sand. In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil and a couple of garlic cloves, add the clams , cover with the lid and let them cook until they open.
Once ready, remove the garlic cloves , drain them , making sure to save their cooking water, which will be used to cook the clams. Shell them , keeping some whole for garnishing the plates.
Filter the cooking water from the clams you collected and use it to dilute the tomato paste. Now take care of cooking the fregola by placing olive oil in a hot pan , add 2 whole or crushed garlic cloves if you prefer, and a tablespoon of chopped parsley .
Then add the peeled tomatoes and the tomato paste dissolved in the clam liquid, cook for a few minutes. Then pour a couple of ladles of vegetable broth ; to make it best, follow the Vegetable broth recipe. Remove the garlic with kitchen tongs
then add the fregola , which should cook for about 10-15 minutes. Continue cooking by gradually adding the broth. Halfway through cooking, add the chickpeas . At the end of cooking, add the shelled clams and turn off the heat .
Adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper, flavor with another tablespoon of chopped parsley , then add the clams with the shell that you set aside . Finally, drizzle with a bit of olive oil . Your fregola with clams and chickpeas is ready to be served, enjoy it hot accompanied by carasau bread.
Fregola with clams and chickpeas can be stored in the refrigerator, closed in an airtight container, for up to 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
As an alternative to chickpeas, you can use cannellini beans, which have a more delicate taste. If you want to achieve a more liquid consistency, just add a little vegetable broth to the preparation.

