name:
Chiffon cake orange and chocolate
ingredients:
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)- superfine
Type 00 flour: 2.3cups(290 g)
Water: ¾cup(200 ml)
Sunflower seed oil: ½cup(120 ml)
Dark chocolate chips: 3.5oz(100 g)
Eggs: 6- large
Orange peel: 2- untreated
Vanilla bean: 1
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)
Cream of tartar: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: 0.3tsp(2 g)
Powdered sugar: 2cups(250 g)
Orange juice: 1
Candied orange: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the chiffon cake, start by sifting the flour into a bowl along with the baking powder. Then add the superfine sugar and salt . In another bowl, pour the egg yolks and set aside the egg whites. Add the vegetable oil ,
then add the room temperature water and mix with a whisk. Then slit a vanilla bean to extract the seeds with the tip of a knife, to add them to the yolk mixture . Grate the zest of two oranges .
Whisk the mixture until you obtain a smooth cream . Then incorporate it into the dry ingredients (flour, sugar, and baking powder) . Mix thoroughly with a whisk until you get a smooth and creamy mixture. Set this batter aside for a moment and proceed to whip the egg whites. Place them in the bowl of a stand mixer (if you don't have a stand mixer, you can use an electric beater).
Start whipping the egg whites. When they become white and soft, add the cream of tartar and continue to whip for a few minutes. When the egg whites are stiff , gently transfer them to the egg mixture .
Stir with a spatula from top to bottom to avoid deflating the egg whites . Then flour the chocolate chips and sift the excess flour, then add them to the mixture . Mix and at this point pour the batter into a chiffon cake mold (it's not necessary to grease or flour the mold). We used a mold with a bottom diameter of 9 inches, top diameter of 10 inches, and a height of 4 inches. Then bake the chiffon cake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for 60 minutes (for a convection oven at 300°F for 45-50 minutes), placing the cake on the lower rack. Check the baking with a toothpick.
Once baked , turn the mold upside down and place it on the special feet so that the cake gets air, cools down, and detaches from the edges on its own. When the chiffon cake is completely cooled, you will need to detach the top part of the mold: you can help yourself with a thin and sharp knife. Your chiffon cake is ready to be decorated .
Then prepare the orange glaze: squeeze the juice of an orange and strain it. In a small bowl, pour the powdered sugar and add the orange juice , then mix with a whisk to create a smooth, rather fluid mix without lumps .
You can pour the orange glaze onto the ring cake gradually with a teaspoon (22-23) and then decorate to taste with candied orange zest : your orange and chocolate chiffon cake is ready to be served!
Store the orange and chocolate chiffon cake under a glass dome for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can vary the glaze to your liking, choosing to decorate the chiffon cake differently, even with fresh orange slices if you prefer!

