name:
Penne with tripe ragout
ingredients:
Penne Rigate pasta: 3cups(320 g)
Beef tripe: 1.5lbs(700 g)- cleaned and blanched
Tomato purée: 1cup(250 g)
Triple concentrated tomato paste: 3tbsp(50 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Red wine: 0.67cup(150 ml)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
Onions: 1
Oregano: 3sprigs
Thyme: 2sprigs
Rosemary: 1sprig
Sage: 3leaves
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 3 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare penne with tripe ragout, first get some already cleaned and partially boiled tripe from your trusted butcher. Begin by preparing the soffritto (for the best results, follow our guide on How to make the soffritto ): wash and trim the carrot, then cut it into small cubes; peel the onion and cut it into cubes as well. Finally, wash the celery stalk, remove the outer leaves, and peel off the fibrous outer membrane with a peeler. Also, cut the stalk into small cubes . Now finely chop the aromatic herbs and set them aside . Heat a pan, melt the butter with a drizzle of olive oil ,
add the vegetables for the soffritto , sauté them on all sides, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon, and let them cook for at least 10 minutes. Season with salt , add the minced garlic
and continue cooking. If the soffritto dries out too much, add a ladle of vegetable broth . Meanwhile, cut the tripe into strips , and when the soffritto is well sautéed, add it to the pan ,
stir and add the previously chopped aromatic herbs , then also add the bay leaves .
Pour in the red wine and let it evaporate. Meanwhile, in a separate bowl, dilute the triple concentrated tomato paste with a ladle of hot broth and then pour it into the pan, stir and also add the tomato puree .
Continue cooking on low heat for about a couple of hours, adding broth to prevent the ragout from drying out (16-17). Towards the end of the ragout's cooking, bring a pot of salted water to a boil, add the penne , and cook until al dente. Once cooked, drain the penne
and add them to the tripe ragout , stir, and mix the penne with the ragout for a few minutes to allow the flavors to combine . Turn off the heat and serve the penne with tripe ragout hot .
It is recommended to consume the penne with tripe ragout immediately; if you have leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator for up to one day. It is possible to freeze the tripe ragout only if you have used fresh ingredients.
You can choose other shapes of long or short pasta to make this dish: spaghetti or macaroni, for example. For a spicier taste, you can add chili pepper to the ragout.

