name:
Lasagne with Radicchio and Montasio
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 8.75oz(250 g)
Radicchio: 12.4oz(350 g)- Treviso
Beef: 1.1lbs(500 g)- ground
Onions: ½
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Garlic: 1clove
Red wine: 2.7oz(80 ml)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Thyme: 2tsp(2 g)
Sage: 2tsp(2 g)
Rosemary: 0.3tsp(2 g)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Montasio cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
To prepare the lasagna with radicchio and Montasio, start with the meat and radicchio ragù: wash the radicchio under running water, then cut the leaves into very thin strips . Then clean and dice the onion , the celery stalk, and the carrot , peeled and trimmed at the ends.
In a large pan, pour a drizzle of oil and the peeled clove of garlic. Then add the chopped onion , carrot, and celery and also add the chopped aromatic herbs, which you have detached from the stems and chopped with a knife . Let the sauté soften over low heat.
Then, add the minced meat , stir with a wooden spoon to brown the meat for a few minutes. Then pour the red wine into the pan and let it evaporate, at this point remove the clove of garlic .
Add the radicchio as well, salt to taste, and let it cook for about 15-20 minutes. While the meat and radicchio ragù cooks, prepare the Montasio cream: cut the Montasio cheese into cubes .
Then heat the milk in a saucepan. Meanwhile, in a pot, pour the butter and melt it over very low heat, then add the sifted flour gradually and stir continuously with a whisk . When you have obtained a lump-free and well-blended roux, add the previously heated milk . Stir continuously with the whisk and cook the mixture over low heat until it thickens.
Turn off the heat and add the Montasio cheese pieces , continuing to stir to melt it completely : the consistency of the cream should be such that if lifted with a spoon, it can remain on the surface for a bit before sinking. Now that the ragù and Montasio cream are ready, start assembling your lasagna, which you will then bake in the oven for a few minutes: take a 8x12 inch rectangular baking dish and pour a little Montasio cream on the bottom to spread with the back of a teaspoon .
Then lay the egg pasta sheets . Then cover the lasagna with a layer of Montasio cream and then create a layer of radicchio ragù .
Continue with another layer of sheets , then bechamel and finally radicchio ragù. Continue until all the ingredients are used, with the radicchio ragù as the final layer, then sprinkle the lasagna with grated Montasio . Then bake in a static oven at 392°F for 20 minutes (if using a fan oven at 356°F for about 10 minutes). Once cooked , remove from the oven and serve your radicchio and Montasio lasagna hot!
You can store the radicchio and Montasio lasagna in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for 1-2 days. You can prepare them the day before, keep them in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap and cook the next day. You can freeze them, only if all fresh ingredients have been used, preferably raw: to cook them, just thaw them in the refrigerator about 24 hours before and then cook them in the oven.
You can also prepare radicchio and Montasio lasagna with sausage, replacing all or part of the minced beef.

