name:
Vegetable lasagna with taleggio cheese cream
ingredients:
Thin egg Lasagne pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Carrots: 7.1oz(200 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Radicchio: 7.1oz(200 g)
Spinach: 3.3cups(100 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- to grate
Parsley: 1spoonful- to chop
Whole milk: 2cups(500 ml)
Taleggio cheese: 12.5oz(350 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.1oz(30 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
To make the vegetable lasagna with taleggio cream, start by washing the vegetables: peel and trim the zucchini and slice them with a mandoline , then trim and slice the carrots into rounds as well , cut the cherry tomatoes into wedges
and slice the radicchio into strips . In a pan, pour a drizzle of olive oil , add a clove of garlic and chopped parsley .
Add the carrots first as they take longer to cook and moisten them with a little broth or hot water . After a few minutes, also add the zucchini and continue cooking for another 5 minutes.
Add the tomato wedges and cook for a few minutes, then add the radicchio and baby spinach until they soften.
The vegetables should not break apart but remain slightly crispy . Turn off the heat and set the vegetables aside. Now prepare the taleggio sauce: slice the cheese then place a small saucepan on the stove and melt the butter over low heat, then add the flour to form the roux,
at this point, pour in the warm milk and finally the pieces of taleggio . Melt the cheese by stirring with a whisk until you get a smooth and homogeneous sauce .
Everything is ready to assemble the lasagna: take a rectangular baking dish measuring 8x12 inches, spread a layer of taleggio cream on the bottom , then place the pasta sheets side by side . At this point, fill with the previously cooked vegetables ,
cover with a layer of thin sheets and a layer of taleggio cream , continue alternating the layers until all ingredients are used up. Finish with a layer of vegetables, sprinkle grated Parmesan Reggiano on the surface , and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 12 minutes. Once cooked, take out your vegetable lasagna with taleggio cream and enjoy it !
You can store the vegetable lasagna with taleggio cream in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for 1-2 days. They can be prepared the day before, kept in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap, and cooked the next day. They can be frozen only if all fresh ingredients have been used, preferably uncooked: to cook them, simply defrost in the refrigerator about 24 hours before and then bake.
You can fill the lasagna with available seasonal vegetables and those you prefer: peas, bell peppers, mushrooms will be great. To make the sauce, instead of taleggio, you can use another cheese with a milder flavor like montasio.

