name:
Lasagna with salmon, prawns, and asparagus
ingredients:
Thin egg Lasagne pasta: 9oz(250 g)
Salmon fillets: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Shrimp: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Asparagus: 15oz(420 g)
Dry white wine: 4.1tsp(20 ml)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste
Water: 3cups(700 ml)
Dry white wine: 0.7oz(20 ml)
Parsley: 1sprig
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Type 00 flour: 2oz(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 12 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
To prepare the salmon, prawn, and asparagus lasagna, start with cleaning the asparagus. Rinse them under running water , then remove the fibrous part of the stalk with a vegetable peeler, cut off the tough end with a knife to even them out, and tie them with kitchen string . Boil them in an asparagus steamer, leaving the tips out of the water (or cook them in a shallow and wide pot fully submerged without needing to tie them together) for about 10-15 minutes.
Once blanched, drain them and place them on a cutting board to cut into pieces . In a large pan, melt the butter over very low heat and sauté the asparagus for a few moments : season with salt and pepper to taste.
Continue the preparation by making the stock starting with How to clean shrimp . Remove the heads, legs, and shells to gently extract the meat ; do not discard the scraps as they will be used to make the Shellfish Stock : in a large pot, add a drizzle of oil, the peeled garlic clove, and the prawn heads and shells .
Season with salt and pepper to taste, stir, and sauté briefly. Then pour in the white wine and let the alcohol evaporate completely. Next, add the water .
Add the fresh parsley , stir, and cook for about 20 minutes over medium heat, skimming the stock with a slotted spoon, making sure to rinse it every time to remove any residue. Once ready, pour it into a bowl, filtering the shells with a strainer , and set it aside as it will be used for the béchamel preparation. Now score the back of the prawns with a small knife and remove the intestine, the black internal vein, gently pulling it out with a toothpick, trying not to break it. Then cut the prawns into pieces.
Take the salmon fillet, rub the surface with your hands to check for bones, and remove them with kitchen tweezers if necessary. Then cut the salmon into cubes. At this point, in a wide pan, add a drizzle of oil and the peeled garlic clove , add the prawns , and sauté them.
In another pan, add a drizzle of oil and chopped parsley, sauté for a few moments, then add the cubed salmon . Cook for a few moments over medium heat. When the salmon has turned pink on the outside, season with thyme and add it to the pan with the prawns , stir, and turn off the heat. Finally, focus on the béchamel: in a saucepan, add the butter and let it melt .
Then add the sifted flour slowly and mix with a whisk. When you've created a smooth roux without lumps, slowly add 600 ml of shellfish stock and mix. Cook for about 20 minutes or until a thick and smooth cream forms. Now that you have all the ingredients ready, you can assemble your salmon, prawn, and asparagus lasagna: take a 20x30 baking dish and spread a little béchamel on the bottom , spreading it with the back of a teaspoon over the entire surface of the dish.
Then lay the thin sheets of egg pasta , add a layer of prawns and salmon , and one of asparagus .
Continue with a layer of béchamel and then again the pasta sheets, prawns, and salmon and asparagus. Continue in the same order until you finish the ingredients. Then bake the lasagna in a static oven at 392°F for 12 minutes. Take out the salmon, prawn, and asparagus lasagna and serve them hot !
You can store the salmon, prawn, and asparagus lasagna in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for 1-2 days. They can be prepared the day before, kept in the fridge covered with plastic wrap, and cooked the next day. They can be frozen, only if all fresh ingredients have been used, preferably raw: to cook them, thaw in the fridge for about 24 hours before then bake them in the oven.
If you prefer, you can use shrimp instead of prawns and replace the asparagus with other vegetables like broccoli or zucchini.

