name:
White ragù and zucchini lasagna
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)- fresh
Zucchini: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- (to grate)
Sausage: 0.7lb(320 g)
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
Onions: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Red wine: ¼cup(50 g)
Water: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig- (to chop)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 7oz(200 g)- to grate
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
To make the white ragù and zucchini lasagna, start by preparing the How to make the soffritto : clean and chop onion , carrot , and celery .
In a pot, heat a drizzle of oil with a clove of garlic, then add the vegetables for the sofritto . Sauté for at least 10 minutes to soften the vegetables, then add the chopped rosemary. Remove the casing from the sausage and crumble it into the pot . Salt, pepper, and brown the sausage for a few minutes.
Deglaze with red wine and let it evaporate. Also, pour in hot water and cook the ragù for about 10 minutes. When the sausage is tender and well-cooked, turn off the heat and remove the garlic clove . Now prepare the cheese cream: in a small pot, heat the milk (it should not come to a boil), while in another, melt the butter .
Pour the flour into the melted butter and mix with a whisk to obtain a roux. Then add the previously warmed milk (slightly lukewarm) to the roux and blend the entire mixture, stirring well with the whisk .
Cook over low heat until the mixture thickens , then turn off the heat and add the grated Parmesan Reggiano . Mix well to obtain a sort of creamy béchamel sauce .
Move on to the zucchinis: wash and trim them, then cut them lengthwise into slices about a quarter-inch thick . Place the slices on a hot grill and salt . Grill the zucchinis on both sides .
You are ready to assemble the lasagna: take a rectangular baking dish of 8x12 inches, spread a layer of Parmesan cream at the bottom , then place a layer of pasta sheets and cover with more cream .
Distribute a layer of ragù and one of zucchinis, then sprinkle the surface with grated Parmesan . Continue alternating the layers in this way until you have used up all the ingredients ; you should get a total of 4 layers.
Finish with a layer of cream , one of ragù, and finally sprinkle the surface with grated Parmesan Reggiano . Bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 20 minutes. Once cooked, take out your white ragù and zucchini lasagna, let them cool for a few minutes and then serve them !
The white ragù and zucchini lasagna can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
You can freeze them after cooking.
If you want to customize this recipe, you can replace the sausage with ground beef. Additionally, the zucchinis can be replaced with grilled eggplants or artichokes to vary the flavor.
For an even richer version, try adding mozzarella for a stringy effect between the layers!

