name:
Stuffed tagliatelle with cotechino
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Eggs: 4- (at least 70 g each)
Eggs: 1
Precooked cotechino Modena: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1- medium
Onions: 1- medium
Dry white wine: 1.75oz(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Black pepper: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Sage: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- for grating
Chives: to taste
Oregano: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for the egg pasta

instructions:
To prepare the stuffed tagliatelle with cotechino, you can start with the egg pasta dough: place the sifted flour on a pastry board, create the classic fountain, and pour the eggs in the center. Then start working the ingredients by mixing with a fork , widening more and more to incorporate the flour. Then begin to knead with your hands for at least 10 minutes, handling and beating the dough on the board until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture . Form a dough ball and cover it with plastic wrap , then let it rest at room temperature for about 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, continue with the preparation of the filling: take a precooked cotechino and boil it in a pot with boiling water according to the instructions on the package (it will take about 15 minutes). Once the necessary time has passed, drain it and place it in a small bowl to remove the outer packaging , being careful not to burn yourself with the liquid in the package. Remove the skin of the cotechino ,
then chop it finely with a knife . Next, prepare the vegetables for the soffrito: finely chop the onion, celery, and carrot previously washed and trimmed. If you prefer, you can add a mix of aromatic herbs. Place the soffrito vegetables in a large pan with a drizzle of oil and let them wilt for about 5-10 minutes. Then add the cotechino pulp , mix and cook the cotechino over high heat for 5 minutes, then deglaze with white wine. Salt and pepper to taste. Then turn off the heat.
Place the cotechino ragù thus obtained in a mixer and add the ricotta and the Parmigiano Reggiano . Reduce the mixture to a homogeneous cream and set it aside .
At this point, take the egg pasta dough again and place it on the lightly floured board. Roll it out with a rolling pin, divide it, and cut it into an even number of sheets, as thin as possible. Then use a pasta machine to make them even thinner and about 12 inches long . Brush the sheets with 1 beaten egg using a kitchen brush .
Then take the cotechino filling, fill a piping bag with a spatula , and lay the filling on half of the pasta sheets, creating stripes spaced about 0.4 inches apart . Then close the sheets with the filling by placing another pasta sheet on top .
It is important that the tagliatelle are closed without leaving air inside, so it is important to press with your hands on the sides of the filling to seal and release all the air. Take the fluted pastry cutter and trim the edges to make the tagliatelle which you can place on a tray lined with a floured kitchen towel .
Place a large and spacious pot on the stove; fill it with water, salt to taste, and bring it to a boil. When the water boils, pour the tagliatelle into the pot and boil them for about 5 minutes. Then drain them with a slotted spoon and toss them in a pan where you have melted the butter .
Toss them with the addition of chopped aromatic herbs and grated Parmigiano Reggiano to taste . Then serve your stuffed tagliatelle with cotechino hot !
You can store stuffed tagliatelle with cotechino in an airtight container and keep it in the refrigerator for a maximum of 1-2 days. It is possible to freeze the tagliatelle raw. For freezing, you can place the tray with the well-spaced tagliatelle in the freezer to harden them for a couple of hours. When they are well hardened, put them in freezer bags and place them back in the freezer. When you need to use them, boil them directly from frozen in boiling water and proceed as indicated in the recipe.
If you prefer, you can prepare a tomato sauce to dress your stuffed tagliatelle with cotechino.

