name:
Meatloaf in a loaf pan
ingredients:
Beef: 1.3lbs(600 g)- ground
Mortadella: 7.8oz(220 g)- diced
Sweet Pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)- cubed
Stale bread: 3cups(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1 ½cup(120 g)- to grate
Pecorino cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Hard boiled eggs: 4
Eggs: 4- medium
Garlic: 1clove
Breadcrumbs: 1spoonful
Parsley: to taste- to chop
Marjoram: to taste- to chop
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Butter: 10 ½tbsp(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Water: ½cup(105 ml)- chilled
Eggs: 1
Whole milk: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time of the puff pastry

instructions:
To make the meatloaf in a loaf pan, start by preparing the Easy Shortcrust Pastry . Put the flour , cold butter pieces from the fridge , a pinch of salt, and blend everything until you get a sandy, floury texture. At this point, place the mixture on a pastry board .
in the classic fountain shape and quickly knead everything by gradually adding cold water until you get a firm, solid, and quite elastic dough. Once ready , wrap your shortcrust pastry in plastic wrap and let it rest in the fridge for at least 40 minutes.
Now, focus on the meatloaf mixture: in a large bowl, combine the beef, diced bacon, mortadella , bread pieces , grated pecorino cheese ,
also grated Parmesan cheese , 4 whole eggs , and a crushed garlic clove. Add breadcrumbs , flavor with chopped parsley and marjoram,
a pinch of grated nutmeg , salt, and pepper. Mix the dough with a wooden spoon to combine the ingredients until you get a homogeneous and well-compacted mixture .
Now take the shortcrust pastry, roll it out into a thin rectangular sheet . Butter the mold, line it with parchment paper, leaving side flaps to easily lift the meatloaf from the mold, and line the inside with the shortcrust pastry. Use the rolling pin to place the sheet and place the meatloaf inside, create a central groove along the length
and place the 4 boiled eggs inside . Cover the surface with more mixture and close with the excess shortcrust pastry from the edge ,
trim off the excess dough and pinch the edges to seal the pastry well. Beat the egg with a tablespoon of milk and brush the meatloaf so that the pastry is golden and crispy . With the leftover dough, you can create leaves to apply on the surface . Now proceed with baking: bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for 60 minutes. Once baked, remove the meatloaf from the loaf pan, let it cool slightly and then unmold it by lifting with the parchment paper flaps. Serve the meatloaf in slices and accompany it with mixed vegetable sides or roasted potatoes.
You can store the meatloaf in a loaf pan in the refrigerator for a couple of days. It is recommended to freeze the meatloaf without the pastry crust.
You can enrich the meatloaf in a loaf pan with other tasty ingredients such as olives, diced provola cheese, salami, or cooked ham.
If you want to make the shortcrust pastry wrapper more appetizing, add aromatic herbs to the dough like chives, thyme, and parsley.

