name:
Risotto with cotechino, lentils and sparkling wine
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ¾cup(350 g)
Precooked cotechino Modena: 1
Spumante: 2 ⅛cups(500 ml)
Lentils: 1cup(200 g)
Vegetable broth: 2 ⅛cups(500 ml)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1cup(100 g)- to grate
Shallot: 2oz(60 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the risotto with cotechino, lentils, and sparkling wine, start with the Vegetable broth , then move to the lentils: place them in a large pot and add water until they are covered. Turn on medium heat and cook for at least 40 minutes. Then divide the lentils into 2 bowls: pour 1/3 of the legumes into one and 2/3 into the other .
In the larger bowl, add a ladle of vegetable broth , salt, pepper, and oil to taste. Then blend the 2/3 portion of lentils with an immersion blender to obtain a cream. You will have the lentils reduced to cream and the whole ones ready to add at the end of cooking .
Boil the pre-cooked cotechino in a pot with boiling water following the instructions on the package (it will take about 15 minutes). After the required time, drain it and place it in a small bowl to remove the outer casing , being careful not to burn yourself with the liquid in the package. Remove the cotechino skin , then slice it and cut into small pieces .
Then clean and finely chop the shallot . In a large pot, add 2 tablespoons of butter cut into pieces and melt it almost completely over very low heat, stirring with a wooden spoon to prevent the butter from burning.
Add a drizzle of oil , then add the shallot and let it soften. At this point, add the diced cotechino and the rice .
Stir with a wooden spoon and toast the rice for a few minutes, then pour in the sparkling wine and let it evaporate for a few moments, stirring. Add one or two tablespoons of broth to aid cooking . Cook on low heat for about 15 minutes.
Then add the lentil cream , stir, and add one or more tablespoons of broth if necessary , and cook for another 10-15 minutes. Then, a few minutes before the end of cooking, add the remaining butter and the grated Parmesan cheese .
Mantecate the risotto and finally add the whole lentils before turning off the heat. Serve the risotto with cotechino, lentils, and sparkling wine hot !
The risotto with cotechino, lentils, and sparkling wine can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Soaking the lentils is not essential; it only slightly reduces cooking times. However, if you want to speed up preparation, you can cook the lentils in a pressure cooker for 20 minutes over very low heat, thus halving the cooking time. You can also cook the rice with Champagne if you prefer and serve the risotto with the same sparkling wine or Champagne used for cooking.

