name:
Vegetarian Lasagna Cupcake
ingredients:
Eggs: 2- medium
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Eggplant: 1
Potatoes: 1- medium
Zucchini: 1- medium
Carrots: 1- medium
Onions: 1- medium
Cherry tomatoes: 10
Champignon mushrooms: 4
Celery: 1rib
Red peppers: ½
Yellow peppers: ½
Leeks: ½
Garlic: 1clove
Tomato paste: 1spoonful
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- to grate
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Butter: 2tbsp(25 g)
Type 00 flour: 3tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 12
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the pasta in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the vegetarian lasagna cupcakes, start by making the egg pasta: on a work surface, place the flour in a mound, make a well in the center, and crack the eggs into it. Using a fork, mix the eggs with the flour from the edges . Then, work the dough with your hands to incorporate all the flour , kneading vigorously, and if necessary, add a tablespoon of lukewarm water to soften the dough. Continue kneading until the dough is smooth and firm. Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest for at least half an hour in a cool, dry place.
Meanwhile, prepare the vegetables: wash all the vegetables under running water, then remove the stem from the red bell pepper, take half of it, and after removing the seeds, cut it into strips . Do the same with half a yellow bell pepper. Then clean and cut a celery stalk and carrot into sticks. Next, trim the zucchini and cut it into sticks as well . Take the leek, cut off the green part and the roots, peel off the outermost layer, and then slice half into rings . Clean the onion and slice it thinly.
Next, peel the potato and slice it , then cut into sticks. Then trim the eggplant and cut it into strips , then quarter the cherry tomatoes. Lastly, clean the Champignon mushrooms and slice them fairly thin .
In a large pan, pour in plenty of olive oil. Then add the garlic clove, onions, leek, potatoes, and peppers . Next, add the celery and carrots and include the tomato paste . Stir and let the vegetables wilt with a lid for about 10 minutes.
After that, add the eggplants and zucchinis, salt to taste, and continue cooking with the lid on, stirring occasionally. After about 5 minutes, add the cherry tomatoes and when they have wilted, add the mushrooms . Cook for another 5 minutes or so: the vegetables should be cooked but still crisp. Then turn off the heat and focus on preparing the Béchamel sauce . Pour the milk into a saucepan and heat it .
In another saucepan, add the butter and melt it over very low heat, stirring to prevent burning. Once completely melted, add the sifted flour and cook for a few minutes, stirring continuously with a whisk: you've now obtained the roux
At this point, remove the saucepan from the heat and add the hot milk to the roux , stirring with a wooden spoon. Put the saucepan back on the heat, cooking on low until the sauce begins to boil, then add a pinch of salt and a pinch of nutmeg. Cover the saucepan with a lid and cook the béchamel on a low flame for 15 minutes, the time needed to thicken the sauce, stirring occasionally. With this, your béchamel will be ready. Then you can assemble your lasagna cupcakes: take the resting pasta from the fridge, slightly roll the dough with a rolling pin, then continue with a pasta machine, starting from the widest setting until reaching the thinnest. Once the sheets are obtained, cut 12 square sheets of pasta, each 4 inches per side. If you have excess dough, create one or two rectangles to cut out rounds with a 2.5-inch cutter .
Then in a large pot, bring salted water to a boil, add a drizzle of oil to prevent the pasta from sticking during cooking, and blanch both the squares and circles of egg pasta for a few moments .
Now that the base is ready , grease a 12-cupcake or muffin mold or 12 individual molds. Place a square of egg pasta in each mold shape and start assembling the vegetarian lasagna cupcakes.
In each square, first place a tablespoon of béchamel and then a tablespoon of vegetables , and sprinkle with a tablespoon of grated Parmesan . Continue with another layer: place the pasta circles in each cupcake
and cover them with a tablespoon of béchamel and a tablespoon of vegetables . Finish with a sprinkle of grated Parmesan and bake the lasagna cupcakes in a static oven at 320°F for 40-45 minutes. Your vegetarian lasagna cupcakes are ready to serve !
Consume the vegetarian lasagna cupcakes immediately or store them in the refrigerator in a lidded container for up to one day. The vegetarian lasagna cupcakes can be frozen; if you decide to freeze them raw, leave them inside the mold. If cooked, you can place them in the freezer in an airtight container, but when it's time to reheat them, you must put them back in the muffin molds.
You can try the version of Lasagne cupcake with sausage ragu, or vary the seasoning as you prefer!
If you follow a vegetarian diet that excludes cheeses made with animal rennet in addition to meat and fish, you can substitute the ingredient with a similar cheese made with vegetable rennet.

