name:
Challah
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 1 ⅓cup(170 g)
Water: ½cup(110 ml)- warm
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(4 g)
Manitoba flour: 4 ¼cups(520 g)
Sugar: 6 ½tbsp(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4.4tbsp(65 g)
Honey: 2tbsp(40 g)
Water: 2tbsp(30 ml)- lukewarm
Eggs: 5.25oz(150 g)- (about 3 medium)
Egg yolks: 3
Fine salt: 2 ½tsp(15 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the dough rising time

instructions:
To prepare the challah, start with the starter: in a small bowl, pour the water and dissolve the dry yeast (alternatively, you can use 12 g of fresh yeast) . Stir with a teaspoon to dissolve it completely . In a larger bowl, put the sifted flour and add the yeast dissolved in water .
Work the dough with your hands in the bowl , then transfer it to a floured surface and handle it to obtain a soft and homogeneous mixture . Place it in a small bowl and let it rise covered with plastic wrap for about 30 minutes.
After the necessary time, the starter will have doubled in volume . At this point, dissolve the salt in a small bowl with water . Then pour the starter into the bowl of a stand mixer .
Add the sugar , the honey , and start kneading with the K-beater .
Gradually add the sifted flour while continuing to run the beaters at medium speed, then also pour in the eggs , and when they are fully incorporated, add the egg yolks .
When the yolks are incorporated into the dough, add the olive oil in a thin stream . Then replace the K-beater with the dough hook and add the water in which you dissolved the salt . Continue kneading until you obtain a smooth and soft dough .
Form a ball with the obtained dough and transfer it to a bowl to let it rise covered with plastic wrap in a turned-off oven with the light on for at least 3 hours. After the necessary time, the dough will have doubled in volume .
Place it on a lightly floured work surface, divide it into 5 pieces, and handle them to obtain 5 strands of the same length and thickness. Now that you have all the strands , seal them at one end .
At this point, begin to create the challah: separate 3 strands from the other two and braid the strands alternately, starting from the first braid made with the outermost ones (25-26). Continue with the strands immediately more internal bringing the strands over each other.
Continue in this way until you finish the dough and slightly roll the end , before folding it under the challah.
Now that the braid is ready , transfer it to a baking tray lined with parchment paper and let it rise for at least 30-45 minutes. Once the dough has completed the last rise, you can brush the challah with a beaten yolk with a tablespoon of water, using a kitchen brush . Bake the challah in a preheated static oven at 375°F for 30-40 minutes (if using a convection oven, 340°F for 20-25 minutes). Once baked, your challah will be golden, fragrant, and soft, ready to be served !
You can store the challah in a food bag for about 2 days. The challah dough can be frozen after the 3-hour rise. Then it can be thawed in the refrigerator and brought to room temperature before shaping the challah and baking it. Freezing cooked challah is not recommended.
If you want to respect tradition, it is not possible to substitute oil with butter or add milk or yogurt to the preparation to avoid mixing animal-derived products with meat, which according to tradition is consumed on Shabbat by all Jewish families.

