name:
Millefoglie di cotechino e lenticchie
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1lb(460 g)- (2 rolls)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Cotechino: 1.4lbs(650 g)
Carrots: 1
Onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Ground black pepper: 20
Coarse salt: 1spoonful
Lentils: ½cup(100 g)
Celery: ½rib
Carrots: ½
Onions: ½
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 h 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the puff pastry with cotechino and lentils, start by preparing the vegetables: wash, trim, and peel a carrot , wash, trim the celery, and remove the outermost strings , peel the onion , then set the vegetables aside.
Take care of the lentils: rinse them under running water and place them inside a pressure cooker along with the vegetables, pour in enough water to cover the lentils , add salt and pepper .
Close the pot and cook for 12-15 minutes, then let them cool. If you are not using a pressure cooker, soak the lentils in water for at least 2 hours to soften them before cooking, which will take about 40 minutes. When the lentils are soft , let them cool, place them in a mixer , and blend until you get a smooth cream .
Now prepare the cotechino: place it in a large pot and cover it with water, add the chopped vegetables , pierce the cotechino with a toothpick to allow the fat to escape during cooking ;
cover the meat with a lid and cook over medium heat for about 2 hours. Once cooked, remove the cotechino, peel it, and crumble it . Roll out the puff pastry, using a pastry cutter about 4.5 inches in diameter, cut out circles of dough and place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper.
Prick the pastry with the prongs of a fork to prevent it from puffing up too much during cooking. Finely chop the rosemary leaves , place them in a small bowl, and add the olive oil .
Use the emulsion obtained to brush the surface of the pastry circles . Bake the puff pastry sheets in a static oven at 350°F for about 10-15 minutes or until the surface is slightly golden . Now you can assemble the puff pastries: take a plate to serve the single portion, spread a layer of lentil cream ,
place a pastry disc , then cover with a layer of cream and a layer of crumbled cotechino , overlap a second pastry circle .
and again a layer of lentil cream and one of cotechino , finally close with a third disc. Your puff pastry with cotechino and lentils is ready to be served.
The puff pastry with cotechino and lentils can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. It is possible to freeze the lentil cream and the cotechino separately if you have used fresh ingredients.
You can flavor the lentils with bay leaves to make them even more flavorful. As an alternative to fresh cotechino, you can use precooked cotechino, which will reduce the cooking time.

