name:
Rice tart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ⅓cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6tbsp(90 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp(8 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Lemon peel: 1
Vanilla bean: 1
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Sugar: ½cup(90 g)
Orange peel: 1
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Fine salt: 0.4tsp(2 g)
Eggs: 1
Brown sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 25 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + 1 h of resting for the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
To prepare the rice tart, start with the pastry: make a well with the sifted flour on a work surface , then add the powdered sugar . Next, add the vanilla seeds and the baking powder. Continue by grating the zest of an untreated lemon ,
then also add the eggs and olive oil . Then start mixing with a fork starting from the center in a circular manner and gradually expanding more and more to incorporate the flour. When the liquids are absorbed, start kneading quickly by hand until a smooth and homogeneous dough is formed; shape it into a ball .
Wrap it with plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator for about 1 hour. Now take care of the rice pudding filling: heat the milk in a high-edged saucepan over medium heat. Wash an orange and peel its zest with a vegetable peeler and add it to the milk . With a small knife, slit a vanilla pod and extract the seeds by sliding the knife blade along the inside of the pod. Add half the pod and the seeds to the milk .
Add the cinnamon stick , then also add the granulated sugar and salt. Stir to blend all the flavors and dissolve the sugar. Bring the milk to a simmer, remove the orange zest, cinnamon stick, and vanilla pod with kitchen tongs
and then add the rice and cook over a low heat, stirring occasionally. Leave it on the heat for 30 minutes, and if it dries out too much, add more hot milk. At the end of the preparation, the rice pudding should have a rather creamy consistency . When the rice is cooked, let it cool. Now retrieve the shortcrust pastry from the refrigerator, remove the plastic wrap, and divide it in half: roll out half on a floured work surface or pastry board. Make a sheet about 1/5 inch thick .
Then butter and flour an 11-inch diameter mold; roll the shortcrust sheet on the rolling pin and unroll it over the mold. Slide the rolling pin over the edges of the cake tin to remove the excess dough and adhere the pastry to the edge and bottom . Then combine the leftover dough with the remaining pastry. Then pour the rice cream into the mold, leveling the surface with a wooden spoon ; roll out the remaining half of the dough to the same thickness as the base and cover the tart to close it . Adhere all the edge points to seal the two doughs.
Then brush the tart with a beaten egg and then sprinkle the surface with brown sugar . Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 45 minutes (if using a fan oven, at 320°F for 35-40 minutes). When the tart is cooked, remove it from the oven and let it cool then remove it from the mold and serve it sliced!
You can store the rice tart covered with plastic wrap or under a glass dome for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can flavor the tart filling with a liqueur such as maraschino or rum and make it even more flavorful by adding other delicious ingredients of your choice such as raisins, toasted pine nuts, grated coconut, or cocoa powder.

