name:
Bread Meatballs
ingredients:
Stale bread: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Eggs: 1- medium
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the bread meatballs, first remove the crust from the stale bread , then cut the crumb into cubes . Transfer the bread to a bowl and pour the milk over it .
Press with your hands or a spoon to ensure all the cubes are soaked in milk , then let them rest for 5 minutes. After this time, add an egg and the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP .
Also add the chopped parsley and the crushed garlic clove , then drizzle a little olive oil .
Salt , pepper, and mix the mixture with your hands or a spoon . At this point, form balls weighing about 1.2 oz each and place them on a tray ; with these amounts, you should get about 15.
Proceed to breading: dip each meatball in the egg, which you have previously beaten with a pinch of salt , then coat it with breadcrumbs . Continue this way to bread all the meatballs .
Heat the seed oil to a temperature of 340°F, then fry a few meatballs at a time for 2-3 minutes. When they are evenly golden, drain and transfer to paper towels . Your bread meatballs are ready to be served hot and crispy, accompanied by a sauce of your choice !
It is recommended to consume bread meatballs immediately. Alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
If you wish to prepare them the day before, you can store the raw and breaded meatballs in the refrigerator for one day.
Freezing is not recommended unless they are made smaller.
You can stuff the bread meatballs with diced speck, ham, or provola, for example!
If you prefer to avoid frying, you can cook the meatballs in tomato sauce or bake them in a fan oven at 390°F for about 15-20 minutes.
Don't throw away the crust of the dry bread: you can blend it to make breadcrumbs or reduce it to cubes and toast it in a pan with some herbs to flavor a pasta dish!

