name:
Mini pavlovas with lemon cream
ingredients:
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)- extra fine
Egg whites: ¾cup(180 g)- (about 6)
Cornstarch: 1tbsp(15 g)
Cream of tartar: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Apple cider vinegar: 1spoonful
Vanilla extract: 2tsp
Fine salt: 1pinch
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(35 g)
Potato starch: 4 ½tbsp(35 g)
Whole milk: 2cups(500 ml)
Egg yolks: 6
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Lemon peel: 1- untreated
Fresh liquid cream: 0.85cup(200 ml)
Powdered sugar: to taste- (to whip the cream optional)
Blueberries: ½cup(80 g)
Raspberries: 2cups(80 g)
Kiwi: 1
Currants: to taste
Passion fruit: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the mini pavlovas, start with the lemon cream: in a large saucepan, heat the milk (whole or semi-skimmed) with the zest of half a lemon . Meanwhile, in a small bowl, pour the egg yolks, add the sugar, and beat the eggs until you get a smooth and creamy mixture. Add the sifted flour with potato starch (or corn starch) ,
then mix the mixture with a whisk . Then pour in the slightly warmed milk, straining the lemon zest with a sieve . Mix thoroughly, then put everything back in the saucepan .
Turn on the low heat and continue mixing until you get a smooth cream . Once ready, transfer it to a large bowl and cover with plastic wrap in contact . While the cream is cooling, start preparing the meringue: in a small bowl, pour the superfine sugar and then the corn starch .
Then in the bowl of a stand mixer, pour the egg whites and start whipping them, adding a pinch of salt. Then add the vanilla extract and continue with the beaters. Also add the cream of tartar (or baking powder),
then gradually add the sugar mixed with corn starch . Finally, pour in the apple cider vinegar (or white wine vinegar) . Keep the beaters running until you get a creamy and firm mixture .
Spread the mixture on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, forming 4 rather thick discs with slightly raised edges . Bake the mini pavlovas in a preheated static oven at 250°F for at least 1 hour. Meanwhile, prepare the fruit for garnishing: peel and slice the kiwi then cut into pieces. Rinse the blueberries, currants, and raspberries under running water. Halve the passion fruit and scoop out the seeds. At this point, whip the cream to add to the lemon custard (for this procedure, you can also consult the cooking school: How to Whip Cream ). In a bowl, pour the fresh liquid cream, add powdered sugar if you prefer and run the beaters until you get a fluffy mixture.
Then take the now cold lemon custard, remove the plastic wrap, and pour it into a tall-sided bowl. Add the whipped cream and mix the two creams to obtain a single mixture. When the meringues are ready, take them out of the oven and begin to assemble your mini pavlovas with lemon cream: place the meringues on a serving tray, pour a couple of tablespoons of cream in the center of each .
Finally, decorate with the fruit: add the blueberries , then the currants, raspberries, kiwi , and the passion fruit seeds. Decorate as desired with mint leaves . Your mini pavlovas with lemon cream are ready to be enjoyed!
The mini pavlovas with lemon cream can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days at most in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
You can vary the garnish with the fruit of your choice, and if you want to decorate the mini pavlovas further, you can add a ganache of chocolate or coffee drizzled to create lines.

