name:
Yogurt buns with chocolate chips
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 1.4cups(175 g)
Manitoba flour: 1.4cups(175 g)
Yogurt: 0.4cup(100 g)
Whole milk: 0.3cup(70 g)- warm
Dark chocolate chips: 2.5oz(70 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Honey: 1tsp
Eggs: 1- medium
Egg yolks: 1
Brewer's yeast: 0.625tsp(3 g)
Fine salt: ¾tsp(4 g)
Orange peel: 1- untreated
Eggs: 1
Whole milk: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the dough rising time

instructions:
To prepare the yogurt buns with chocolate chips, you can start with the Homemade Yogurt as follows: mix the plain yogurt with 500 ml of fresh whole milk at room temperature, pour into a large bowl, cover with microwave-safe plastic wrap and place the container inside the Smart Oven by setting the automatic fermentation program 2-2 (max weight 500 g). To set the automatic fermentation function just press the corresponding button twice. Once ready, leave it to rest in the fridge for at least 6 hours. In the meantime, proceed to prepare the buns: put the chocolate chips in the freezer for about 1 hour; in the meantime, dissolve the dry yeast in lukewarm milk (whole or semi-skimmed) , then pour in 1 teaspoon of honey and mix. Meanwhile, in the bowl of a stand mixer, pour the flour (alternatively to Manitoba flour you can use type 0 flour) and sugar , then also add the milk in which you dissolved the yeast and honey.
Then pour in the eggs and start working the ingredients with the paddle attachment (if you don't have a stand mixer you can use an electric hand mixer). Also slowly add the oil and when it is absorbed pour in the yogurt .
Continue to run the beaters and when the dough has compacted more , then attach the hook and add the salt .
Continue to run the stand mixer , then add the zest of 1 untreated orange last . Run the beaters until the dough wraps around the hook. Now that the dough is ready, let it rise in the microwave covered with microwave-safe plastic wrap, setting the rising program by pressing the corresponding button once. The dough at the end of the program will have doubled in volume .
In the meantime, take the chocolate chips out of the freezer and coat them in flour, sifting them to remove the excess . Then, after the necessary time has passed, when the dough has doubled in volume, remove the plastic wrap. Then add the chips to the dough and work it with your hands to mix them well .
Transfer the dough to a lightly floured surface . Cut the dough into 12 lengths of about 12-14 inches each and start forming the buns this way: place two lengths in a cross, then fold the halves to the right and left .
Do the same with the other half of the length and proceed in the same way for the two halves at the top and bottom (20-21).
Repeat the folds until the end of the dough : then place the yogurt buns on a round baking sheet lined with parchment paper and brush them with a beaten egg with milk. Let them rise this way for another hour or so at room temperature. Then bake them by setting the microwave convection cooking program, like a regular home oven, at 356°F for 30 minutes, preheating the microwave with the quick preheat function. Once the cooking program is finished, your yogurt buns with chocolate chips will be golden and soft, ready to be removed from the oven and enjoyed for breakfast !
You can store the cooked buns in a freezer bag or an airtight container for 1-2 days. If you prefer, you can freeze the raw dough after the first rise. When needed, you can defrost it the night before in the refrigerator, let it come to room temperature, and bake your buns!
Are you a fan of raisins? Then replace them with chocolate chips or create the variations you prefer!

