name:
Roast beef with citrus fruits with a tray of potatoes, zucchini, and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Beef: 1.8lbs(800 g)- cut for roast beef
Lemon juice: 1
Lemon peel: ½
Orange juice: 1
Orange peel: ½
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Marjoram: 4sprigs
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Potatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2spoonfuls- to grate
Hot Paprika: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Average
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the citrus roast beef with a tray of potatoes, zucchini, and cherry tomatoes, start by preparing the meat: grate the zest of an orange and a lemon and squeeze the juice from both the orange
and the lemon . Strain the juices through a sieve and collect the emulsion in a bowl . Finely chop a sprig of marjoram and one of rosemary. In a baking dish, pour the sifted flour
the chopped herbs , the sifted orange, and lemon zest. Add the salt , the pepper .
Mix the breading mixture . Take the roast beef; if the piece of meat you bought is irregular, tie it with kitchen string to keep its shape and brush it with the citrus emulsion, then flour it on all sides ,
place it on an oven rack and cook it with Samsung 3 oven automatic program for single steam cooking S12 . Once cooked, take the roast beef out of the oven and let it cool for easier slicing . Meanwhile, prepare the vegetables: wash and trim the zucchini, then cut them into slices and then halve them ,
wash and peel the potatoes and cut them into small wedges approximately the same size as the zucchini to ensure even cooking, and parboil the potatoes for a few minutes in boiling water . Cut the cherry tomatoes in half , place them in a baking dish, add the zucchini and cherry tomatoes,
season with a drizzle of olive oil , salt , pepper, and a teaspoon of paprika and stir to flavor the vegetables.
Finally, sprinkle a layer of grated Parmigiano Reggiano to create a tasty crust during cooking. Cook in the Samsung 3 oven with the automatic program for single steam cooking S11. When the vegetables are ready, take them out of the oven , slice the roast beef, and serve it accompanied by the tray of mixed vegetables .
Store the citrus roast beef with a tray of potatoes, zucchini, and cherry tomatoes in an airtight container and place it in the refrigerator for up to two days. It's possible to freeze both the roast beef and the vegetables if you have used fresh ingredients.
You can vary the vegetables based on seasonal availability and your taste: mushrooms, peppers, peas, eggplants will work just fine.

