name:
Coffee-flavored tenerina cake
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(60 g)
Coffee: 6.1tsp(30 ml)
Eggs: 3- medium

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the coffee-flavored tenerina cake, start by preparing coffee using a moka pot: put cold water, preferably low in lime, inside the boiler up to the safety valve (otherwise you will get a longer coffee). Fill the filter with ground coffee and level it each time you add a teaspoon of coffee by tapping the filter on the table with decisive movements , until you reach the edge of the filter.
Do not press with the teaspoon, nor make holes, and screw the coffee maker tightly (to prevent coffee from leaking from the sides as it rises), then place it on a low and steady flame to obtain a rich coffee. As the coffee rises, a dense foam will form ; we recommend not letting the coffee bubble for too long to keep its aroma and sweetness intact. Then turn off the heat, and your coffee for the preparation is ready: mix it directly in the moka pot with a teaspoon to make it more homogeneous .
Now focus on the batter: break the dark chocolate into pieces and melt it in a double boiler until creamy and smooth. Cut the cold butter into cubes and add it 2 cubes at a time to the melted chocolate still on the fire , making sure it is well absorbed before adding more. Once all the butter has melted, remove the pan from the heat and let the mixture cool slightly.
Meanwhile, crack the eggs and place the yolks to whisk with half of the sugar : whisk well with the beaters of a mixer or with a stand mixer until you get a light and frothy mixture.
While continuing to whisk, add the chocolate and butter mixture to the yolks and sugar . Add the well-blended coffee to the mixture . Sift the flour
and add it to the stand mixer , incorporating all the ingredients well: you should obtain a smooth, lump-free batter. In another bowl, place the egg whites , the other half of the sugar
and a pinch of salt : whisk until a firm white cream forms ; then, with a wooden spoon or spatula, gently fold the beaten egg whites with sugar into the chocolate mixture , mixing from bottom to top.
Line a 9-inch diameter cake pan with parchment paper (for best results, consult our cooking school guide How to line a cake pan with parchment paper) and pour the cake batter evenly into it . Bake in a preheated oven at 350°F for 25-30 minutes, then turn off the oven and let the cake cool with the oven door ajar. Once cool , carefully remove the cake from the pan (be very gentle and careful not to break it) and place it on a serving plate: your coffee-flavored tenerina cake is ready!
Store the coffee-flavored tenerina cake under a glass dome at room temperature for up to 3-4 days.
If you are die-hard chocolate lovers, you can replace the flour with unsweetened cocoa powder, adding another 2 tablespoons of sugar (to counteract the bitterness of the cocoa). The final touch for the coffee-flavored tenerina cake is a nice dusting of powdered sugar or unsweetened cocoa powder!

