name:
Chocolate and coffee cupcakes with white heart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¾tbsp(30 g)
Sugar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
White chocolate: 0.75oz(20 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Baking powder: 0.4tsp(2 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Butter: ½cup(120 g)
Dark chocolate: 2.8oz(80 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 0.3cup(20 g)
Coffee: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Baking powder: 1tsp(4 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the cupcakes, start with the white heart batter: melt the white chocolate in a bain-marie. Then sift the flour with the baking powder in a bowl. Next, in the bowl of a stand mixer, pour the melted butter and add the sugar and cream the ingredients.
Then add the egg yolk , and once incorporated, also pour in the previously melted white chocolate . Transfer the mixture into a small bowl and add the sifted flour with the baking powder .
Mix the ingredients thoroughly . Take a baking tray with dimensions of approximately 6x4 inches and line it with parchment paper. Then pour the obtained batter . Level it out with the back of a spoon
to spread it evenly over the entire surface of the baking tray . Then bake in a preheated static oven for 15 minutes at 355°F. When it's cooked and well golden on the surface, take it out and let it cool . Then proceed to the chocolate and coffee cupcake batter: melt the dark chocolate in a bain-marie. Then sift the flour into a bowl, add the unsweetened cocoa and baking powder . Then repeat all the steps to make the batter as shown in the photo sequence from 1 to 4 (cream the melted butter with the sugar, add the eggs one at a time). Set the mixture aside for a moment and prepare the coffee to add to the cupcake batter.
Put cold water, preferably low in calcium, inside the boiler up to the safety valve (otherwise, you'll get a longer coffee). Fill the filter with ground coffee and level each teaspoon of coffee added by tapping the filter on the table with decisive movements , until you reach the edge of the filter.
Do not press with the teaspoon, nor make holes, and screw the coffee maker tightly (to prevent the coffee from coming out from the sides while it rises), then place it on a low and steady flame to obtain a rich coffee. As the coffee rises, a dense foam will form ; we recommend not letting the coffee gurgle too long to keep its aroma and sweetness intact. Then turn off the heat, and your coffee to use in the preparation is ready: stir it directly in the moka with a teaspoon to make it more homogeneous .
At this point, place the obtained mixture in a small bowl, add the melted dark chocolate , and pour in 0.35 oz of the coffee you made . Also, add the dry ingredients .
Mix the ingredients to obtain a homogeneous mixture . Then fill a piping bag with the help of a spoon . Take a 12-cup muffin tin, insert paper liners in each space, and then fill the mold to 3/4 with the batter .
At this point, you can unmold the white batter: place it on a cutting board and use a 0.8-inch round cutter to cut out rounds . Place the rounds of white batter in the center of each cupcake , letting them sink into the dark batter. Then bake the chocolate and coffee cupcakes with a white heart in a static oven at 340°F for 15-20 minutes, checking the doneness with a toothpick. Once baked, let them cool and voilà: your chocolate and coffee cupcakes with a white heart are ready!
Chocolate and coffee cupcakes with a white heart can be kept under a glass dome for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
To intensify the coffee aroma, you can add the same amount used for the chocolate batter to the white batter as well.

