name:
Coffee log with flambéed meringue
ingredients:
Egg whites: 0.6cup(150 g)
Egg yolks: 7tbsp(100 g)
Sugar: 0.7cup(140 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Nut flour: ½cup(50 g)
Honey: ½tbsp(10 g)
Sugar: 8tbsp(100 g)
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)
Coffee: 1.7oz(50 ml)
Butter: ½cup(125 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(12 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.6cup(150 ml)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(20 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Egg whites: ½cup(125 g)
Water: 3.4tbsp(50 ml)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Lemon juice: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + the time for the cream to set

instructions:
To make the coffee log with flambéed meringue, start by preparing the coffee with the moka pot: put cold water, preferably low in lime, inside the boiler up to the safety valve (otherwise you will get a longer coffee). Fill the filter with ground coffee and level it with each teaspoon of added coffee by tapping the filter on the table with decisive movements , until it reaches the edge of the filter.
Do not press down with a teaspoon or make holes, and tighten the moka pot well (to prevent coffee from leaking from the sides while it rises), then place it on a low, steady flame to get a full-bodied coffee. As the coffee rises, a dense foam will form ; we recommend not letting the coffee bubble for too long, to keep its aroma and sweetness intact. Then turn off the heat and your coffee to be used in the preparation is ready: mix it directly in the moka pot with a teaspoon to make it more homogeneous .
Now prepare the sponge cake: in a mixer with a whisk, place the egg yolks, 90 g of granulated sugar , and the honey , start the machine until you get a light mixture. Separately, whip the egg whites with the remaining sugar
until you get a light and foamy mixture (if you don't have a mixer, use an electric whisk). Combine the whipped egg whites with the mixture . Then add the all-purpose flour and hazelnut flour
Incorporate the ingredients with a spatula . Spread the dough on a sheet of parchment paper placed on a baking tray measuring 18 x 14.5 inches, and level it with a flat, smooth spatula to a thickness of 0.4 inches (14-15). Bake in a preheated static oven at 430°F for 6-7 minutes (no more); the surface of the cake should become just golden, and you should never open the oven to retain the moisture inside.
Remove the sponge cake from the oven , immediately remove it from the tray, placing it with all the parchment paper on a flat surface. Sprinkle the surface of the sponge cake with granulated sugar , so it doesn't stick, and immediately seal it with plastic wrap, folding it under the sides as well . This way, as the sponge cake cools, it will retain all the moisture that will make it elastic and help it to bend without cracking.
Now take care of the cream. Take a bowl, fill it with cold water and soak the gelatin . Then take a pot and pour in the milk, the coffee from the moka , the egg yolks and
the sugar and bring to a simmer. Add the squeezed gelatin , the cubed butter
and let the mixture dissolve until it boils for 2 minutes . Turn off the heat and pour the cream into a wide, low container. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate to cool and thicken for about 3-4 hours . When the cream is cold and firm, put it in the mixer .
to make it creamy and smooth . Whip the heavy cream with 20 g of powdered sugar following the guide: How to Whip Cream and add it to the coffee cream .
When the sponge cake is cold, remove the plastic wrap and fill it with the coffee cream, spreading it over the entire surface with a spoon or a long smooth-bladed knife, leaving a margin of about 0.8 inches to prevent it from overflowing when you roll it up . At this point, once the filling is done, gently roll up the cake and wrap it with plastic wrap and keep it in the refrigerator to firm up .
Finally, prepare the Italian meringue. Pour the sugar and water into a saucepan, heat over low heat until the sugar dissolves, when the syrup starts to boil, insert the thermometer until it reaches 248°F . Meanwhile, whip the egg whites with a few drops of lemon juice and when the syrup reaches the indicated temperature, pour it slowly into the egg whites while continuing to whisk . When the meringue is dense and smooth
transfer it into a piping bag with a star nozzle and garnish the surface of the log with meringue swirls (37-38). Bake the log in the oven for 5 minutes under a hot grill to brown the meringue. Your coffee log with flambéed meringue is ready to be enjoyed !
You can store the coffee log with flambéed meringue in the refrigerator for 3-4 days in an airtight container or well covered with plastic wrap. You can freeze the roll, preferably sliced, and thaw it in the refrigerator when needed.
You can fill the roll with custard or garnish it with a ganache cream instead of the meringue.

