name:
Leek and Potato Cream with Salmon Skewer
ingredients:
Salmon steaks: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.4tbsp(50 ml)
Pink peppercorn: 1spoonful
Dill: 2sprigs
Lemon peel: 1- not processed
Fine salt: 1pinch
Leeks: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Potatoes: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note +20 minutes of resting in the fridge for the seasoned skewers

instructions:
To prepare the leek and potato cream with salmon skewer, start by deboning the salmon slice. Use tweezers to remove the bones along the back . Once this is done, feel the meat again to ensure all bones are removed. Then cut out 4 slices and from these cut 4 regular cubes .
Form 4 skewers by skewering 4 salmon cubes on each stick and place them in a baking dish. Now prepare the emulsion with which you will marinate the salmon skewers: finely chop 2 sprigs of dill and pour the extra virgin olive oil into a bowl .
Pour the chopped dill into the bowl with the oil and add the grated zest of an organic or untreated lemon , then drizzle the skewers with the dill and oil emulsion . The lemon zest, as opposed to the juice, will flavor the salmon without cooking it.
Enrich the emulsion with a tablespoon of pink peppercorns and a pinch of salt. Cover the baking dish with plastic wrap and let the salmon skewers marinate in the fridge for 20 minutes. Meanwhile, start preparing the cream: peel the potatoes .
Cut the potatoes in half, then into strips, and finally into rather small cubes . Trim the leeks by removing the ends and cutting them into rings . Then heat a drizzle of oil in a large pot and sauté the leeks .
Deglaze with a ladle of vegetable broth . To find out how to prepare it best, check out our Cooking School: vegetable broth. Let the vegetable broth evaporate, then add the diced potatoes , stir, season with salt and pepper to taste. Cover with the remaining broth, cover with a lid, and cook for 30 minutes until the potatoes have softened. After this time, transfer everything to a bowl .
Blend the mixture with an immersion blender until you achieve a creamy consistency . If the cream is too thick, add a ladle of vegetable broth. Once the 20 minutes have passed, take the marinated salmon skewers out of the fridge and heat a grill or a large pan. Then sear the skewers over high heat to color the outside and keep the inside soft and juicy . It only takes a few seconds per side, and once cooked, remove them from the grill or pan to prevent further cooking. Keep the emulsion as you will need it to further flavor the skewers during or after cooking.
When the meat is slightly pink , you can turn off the heat and drizzle them with the same emulsion in which they marinated . At this point, all you have to do is pour the leek and potato cream into bowls and accompany each bowl with a salmon skewer !
You can store the leek and potato cream in the fridge well covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for 2 days. You can also freeze it. It is recommended to consume the salmon skewers immediately.
Cut the cubes from the salmon fillets; the tail and sides are less thick and more suitable for preparing a tartare. Prepare the emulsion with the ingredients you like best: replace the dill with fresh parsley, season with grated orange zest, and if you want to give a more intense taste, add black peppercorns. If you want to give an aromatic touch to the leek and potato cream, flavor it with a sprig of rosemary that you will remove once cooking is finished!

