name:
Salmon with Lemon Herb
ingredients:
Salmon steaks: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (4 pieces)
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.42cup(100 ml)
Lemon juice: 1
Parsley: 1tuft
Garlic: ½clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Artichokes: 4
Vegetable broth: 0.625cup(150 ml)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 18 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the lemon herb salmon, start with the artichokes that will accompany the salmon (if you prefer, you can use gloves while cleaning the artichokes to avoid staining your fingers): in a large bowl, pour cold water and squeeze the juice of a lemon ; the water will prevent the artichokes from turning black as you cut them. Then, with a knife, remove the entire stem of the artichokes , then peel off the outer leaves by hand until you reach the more tender and white ones.
Once you've removed the outer leaves, cut off the tips of the artichoke and then divide it in half . Then, with a small knife, remove the inner choke of the artichoke .
Cut the artichokes into thin slices , then gradually add them to the bowl with water and lemon . Once you have finished with the artichokes, drain them .
Then, in a large pan, pour a drizzle of oil and the peeled garlic clove . Next, add the drained artichokes , stir, and add a pinch of salt .
Also pour in the Vegetable broth to aid cooking and cook the artichokes over high heat for about 10 minutes, adding more ladles of vegetable broth as needed. While the artichokes cook, chop the parsley . Then squeeze the juice of a lemon .
Then, in a small bowl, pour 3/8 cup of oil , the juice of the squeezed lemon , and mix to emulsify the two liquids .
Add pepper and salt to taste , then half a peeled garlic clove and the chopped parsley .
Mix again to blend the ingredients . Then take the fresh Norwegian salmon, remove the most visible bones with the help of tweezers , and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Brush each fillet with the oil and lemon emulsion . You can also keep some emulsion aside to add at the end of cooking.
Once you have finished coating the fillets with the emulsion , bake them at 430°F for about 8-10 minutes: the salmon should not be cooked too much to keep its flesh tender and flavorful. Halfway through cooking, turn the fillets over to the other side , then take them out of the oven, and serve, adding the bed of artichokes and more emulsion .
You can store the lemon herb salmon in the refrigerator for up to 2 days, covered with plastic wrap. It is preferable not to freeze this dish.
You can pair the lemon herb salmon with green beans, snow peas, zucchini, or other seasonal vegetables as you like!

