name:
Spinach salad with potatoes, salmon and feta
ingredients:
Salmon fillets: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Spinach: 13.3cups(400 g)
Feta cheese: 2cups(300 g)
New potatoes: 20
Lemons: ½- juice and zest
Oranges: ½- juice and zest
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 12 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the spinach salad with potatoes, salmon, and feta, start by boiling the new potatoes with their skins in a large pot filled with water for about 10 minutes . Meanwhile, prepare the emulsion to dress the potatoes: squeeze half an orange and half a lemon .
Pour a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil into a small bowl and add the orange and lemon juice, filtering it with a sieve . Then grate the zest of half an orange into the bowl .
Add the grated zest of half a lemon , salt and pepper to taste, and mix with a teaspoon to combine everything . After 10 minutes, drain the potatoes with a colander and let them cool.
Once cooled, place them on a cutting board and cut them in half lengthwise without removing the skins. Transfer them to a baking tray lined with parchment paper and drizzle them with the citrus emulsion you prepared . Bake them in a fan oven at 400°F for about 15 minutes, until they are well browned .
Now focus on cleaning and cutting the salmon: remove the bones present on the back of the salmon fillet with tweezers. Once this operation is done, carefully feel the fillet to check that no bones are left. Then cut the fillet into slices about 3/4 inch wide and cut these into cubes . Then heat a pan well and sauté the salmon cubes for a few seconds , until the surface turns pink.
Wash the fresh spinach under running water and cut them into strips . At this point, all you have to do is transfer the chopped spinach to the serving plates, place the new potatoes and salmon cubes on top, and dress with the potatoes' cooking sauce . Finish by crumbling the feta , and your spinach salad with potatoes, salmon, and feta is ready to be served!
It is recommended to consume the spinach salad with potatoes, salmon, and feta immediately. Freezing is not recommended.
If you don't like spinach, use the variety of salad you prefer. Replace the feta with an aged cheese like Parmesan or Grana Padano and enrich your salad with walnuts or even orange slices.

