name:
Savory strudel with ham, mushrooms and fontina
ingredients:
Water: 0.4cup(100 ml)- warm
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Fine salt: 1pinch
Champignon mushrooms: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Fontina cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 7.1oz(200 g)- diced
Leeks: 1- medium
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the savory strudel with ham, mushrooms, and fontina, start with the dough: in a bowl, pour the sifted flour, add the salt , then the egg . Next, pour in the water .
Add the oil as well and then start kneading ; work the mixture in the bowl until the liquids are absorbed, and the dough has formed .
Now lightly oil the work surface or board and transfer the dough. Handle it until it is smooth and elastic .
Make a ball with the dough, place it in a bowl, and cover it with plastic wrap . Let the dough rest in a cool place for at least 30 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the filling: clean the leek by removing the roots and the green part, then peel off the outer layer and slice it thinly . Then clean the champignon mushrooms (for this operation, you can consult the guide on how to clean champignons): wash them under running water, then dry them with a cloth or kitchen paper to remove any soil and slice the caps thinly .
Slice the fontina and remove the rind. Then, in a large pan, pour a drizzle of oil and add the previously sliced leek .
Sauté over high heat for 3-4 minutes, stirring occasionally. Then add the mushrooms, salt, and pepper to taste, and let cook for about 15-20 minutes. The mushrooms should remain crunchy, but the water they release during cooking should evaporate.
While the mushrooms are cooking, put the fontina pieces in the mixer and blend them, then collect them in a bowl . Now that you have the ingredients ready for the filling, take the strudel dough to roll it out
Get a clean cloth and lay it on the work surface: sprinkle with flour and start rolling out your dough ; stretch it slightly with your fingers and then start rolling it out with a rolling pin , also flouring the top of the dough.
Work with the rolling pin until you have obtained a rectangle of 20x14 inches . Sprinkle it with the filling ingredients leaving about 1 inch from the edge: first add the shredded fontina , then the leek and mushroom mixture .
Lastly, distribute the ham cubes . Brush the edges with egg white or water. Then, using the cloth, start rolling the strudel on itself starting from the shorter side and leaving the seam on the bottom.
Complete rolling the strudel on itself and fold the two ends of the dough under the strudel itself. Place the strudel on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and brush the surface of the strudel with extra virgin olive oil ; bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40 minutes (if using a convection oven, 320°F for 30-35 minutes). Once cooked, remove from the oven and let it cool slightly on a rack, then cut and serve!
You can store the savory strudel with ham, mushrooms, and fontina in the refrigerator for 1-2 days covered with plastic wrap. You can freeze it after baking, then thaw in the refrigerator and reheat in the oven.
You can vary the filling by replacing the mushrooms with other vegetables of your liking or substituting the fontina with another soft cheese to your taste.

