name:
Bucatini with crispy zampone and artichokes
ingredients:
Bucatini pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Zampone (pork trotters): 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Artichokes: 5
Water: ¾cup(200 ml)
Lemons: 1
Parsley: 4sprigs
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare bucatini with crispy zampone and artichokes, start by cleaning the artichokes (for all details, check our cooking school how to clean artichokes): cut the artichoke stem at the base. With the help of a small knife, remove the tougher outer leaves . Cut the artichoke in half and then remove the choke: use a teaspoon to cut around the entire inner perimeter of the artichoke . At this point, cut the artichokes into strips and
place them in a bowl full of water where you squeezed the lemon juice to prevent them from darkening, also leave the squeezed lemon in the water for better results. Place a large pot filled with water on the heat and cook the zampone in its casing for about 20 minutes . Once cooked, drain the zampone, take it out of the thermal bag
and let it drain in a colander . Remove the skin and cut the zampone into slices .
Chop the zampone coarsely . Set aside the chopped zampone and place a pan on the heat, pour a drizzle of oil , add a clove of garlic and
the chopped parsley . Drain the artichokes from the water, remove the lemon with a kitchen tongs , and add the artichoke strips to the pan .
Sauté the artichokes in the pan over high heat for about 10 minutes until they soften, adding 200 ml (about 7/8 cup) of water to prevent them from drying out during cooking. Salt , pepper to taste, and remove the clove of garlic .
In another pan, add the chopped zampone and cook it over high heat for a few minutes, just enough to make it crispy, then add the sautéed artichokes in the same pan and cook for a few minutes to flavor. Meanwhile, place a large pot of salted water on the heat, bring to a boil, and add the bucatini .
Cook them until they are al dente, drain them, being careful to reserve some of the cooking water . Add the pasta to the artichoke and zampone sauce, mix to combine the ingredients, and add a ladle of cooking water . Sauté the bucatini with zampone and artichokes in the pan for a minute and then serve them hot .
It is recommended to consume bucatini with crispy zampone and artichokes immediately. If there are leftovers, store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
As an alternative to artichokes, you can use seasonal vegetables: mushrooms, zucchini, or peppers will work perfectly. If you do not like bucatini, you can use other pasta shapes such as linguine or thick spaghetti.

