name:
Potato pie with cotechino ragù heart
ingredients:
Potatoes: 4.4lbs(2 kg)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Pecorino cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Eggs: 3- medium
Parsley: 1tuft
Breadcrumbs: 2spoonfuls
Black pepper: to taste
Precooked cotechino Modena: 2
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
White onions: ½
Tomato paste: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Red wine: 2tbsp(30 g)
Sage: 2leaves
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the potato pie with cotechino ragù heart, first prepare the potato-based dough: wash the potatoes under running water, scrubbing them to remove dirt, then place them in a pot, cover with water , and cook for at least 30 minutes or until you can pierce them with a fork. When ready, peel them and pass them through a food mill , collecting the puree in a bowl. Then add the eggs and grated cheeses .
Add the salt and a pinch of pepper, and knead the ingredients with your hands to incorporate the eggs and blend the cheeses . Then add finely chopped parsley and breadcrumbs . Now that you have the potato dough, set it aside. Start preparing the soffritto for the ragù: take the celery stalk, remove the outer green strings with a vegetable peeler, then cut into strips , and finally into small cubes.
Do the same with the carrots, cleaned and trimmed at the ends , and then with the peeled and finely chopped onion . Place the chopped celery, carrot, and onion in a large pan with a drizzle of oil and add the chopped sage . Sauté over low heat, adding a little water if necessary to prevent the vegetables from burning.
Meanwhile, boil the pre-cooked cotechino: take them with the entire casing and place them in a large pot filled with water . Cook for about 20 minutes, following the instructions on the package. When ready, drain them in a colander, opening the package and letting all the internal liquid drain , being careful not to scald yourself.
Then place the cotechino on a cutting board, gently remove the skin , slice them and then finely chop the meat with a knife .
Pour the cotechino meat into the pan with the soffritto , stir with a wooden spoon. After a few minutes, deglaze with red wine , stir and let the wine evaporate. Then add the tomato paste and continue cooking for about 15 minutes.
When the ragù is ready, you can start assembling the potato pie: take an oval baking dish, brush it with a little oil and sprinkle with breadcrumbs . Then lay down a layer of potatoes, making it adhere to the edges. Pour the cotechino ragù on top and flatten with the back of a spoon.
Then cover with a layer of potato mixture using a piping bag to create tufts of dough over the entire surface, starting from the edges. When finished, bake in a preheated static oven for 15 minutes at 356°F and then in grill mode for an additional 10 minutes at 392°F (if you have a convection oven, bake for 15-20 minutes at 347-338°F until the surface is golden). Then unmold the potato pie with cotechino ragù heart and serve it hot or warm!
You can store the potato pie with cotechino ragù heart in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can replace the tomato paste with tomato purée and let the ragù dry well before adding it to the pie.

