name:
Sardinian gnocchi with sausage ragù
ingredients:
Gnocchetti Sardi pasta: 0.9lb(400 g)
Tomato purée: 3cups(700 g)
Sausage: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Carrots: 3.5oz(100 g)
Celery: 2.5oz(70 g)
White onions: 0.67cup(100 g)
Red wine: ½cup(120 ml)
Tomato paste: 1spoonful
Vegetable broth: 1mestolo
Sugar: 1pinch
Oregano: 1tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 2 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make Sardinian gnocchi with sausage ragù, start by preparing the sauté following the instructions in the How to make the soffritto guide: remove the ends of the carrot with a knife, peel it with a vegetable peeler, and wash it under running water. Wash the celery stalk and remove the outer fibrous membrane with the peeler . Finally, peel the onion and cut it in half. Dice all the vegetables into small cubes . Peel the sausage, crumble it, and set it aside .
Put the extra virgin olive oil in a pan , heat it, then add the chopped onion, carrots, and celery . Stir to brown the vegetables on all sides. After 5 minutes, deglaze with broth (or boiling water) and let it cook for another 10 minutes.
Add the sausage , season with salt , and deglaze with red wine .
Pour in the tomato sauce , add a pinch of sugar to balance the acidity of the tomato . Add a tablespoon of tomato paste ,
season with salt , pepper, and a teaspoon of oregano , stir the ragù, and continue cooking over low heat until the sauce thickens, stirring occasionally with a ladle: this will take about 2 hours. Meanwhile, bring a large pot of salted water to a boil, towards the end of the ragù cooking time,
add the gnocchi to the pot of boiling water and cook for about 10 minutes or for the time indicated on the package. When cooked, drain the pasta and add it to the pan containing the prepared ragù : toss everything quickly and then serve your Sardinian gnocchi with sausage ragù hot .
It is advisable to consume Sardinian gnocchi with sausage ragù immediately. They can be stored in the fridge for up to 24 hours, while freezing is not recommended. The sausage ragù can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for up to 1-2 days or can be frozen in an airtight container.
On the flavor scale from neutral to super-tasty, you will encounter endless variations of this ragù: the slightly spicy one (with added fresh chili), the strong one (with garlic, whole or minced), the explosive one (with ground beef instead of sausage). Which one do you prefer?

