name:
Clafoutis with plums
ingredients:
Prunes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 ml)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(90 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Peeled almonds: 1oz(30 g)
Brandy: 1 ⅓tbsp(20 ml)
Vanilla bean: 1- the seeds
Fine salt: 1pinch
Butter: to taste
Sugar: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the plum clafoutis, start by cutting the blanched almonds into slices , place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper , and toast them in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 5 minutes (or in a fan oven for a few minutes) or until they are slightly golden .
Now, prepare the plums: wash them under running water , cut them in half , and remove the pit with a paring knife
then cut them into fairly regular slices . Set the fruit aside and prepare the batter: place the whole eggs in a bowl, add the sugar , and mix the mixture with a hand whisk ,
add a pinch of salt , the sifted flour and the seeds of the vanilla bean , pour in room temperature milk slowly while continuing to mix with the whisk,
finally, flavor with brandy . Now that the batter is ready, butter a 11-inch diameter pan and sprinkle it with granulated sugar .
Arrange the plum slices on the bottom of the pan, creating a concentric circle pattern (16-17), then sprinkle the plums with the toasted almonds .
Finally, pour the batter into the pan . The plum clafoutis is ready to be baked : bake it in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40-45 minutes or until golden (if you have a fan oven, bake at 320°F for 30-35 minutes). Once cooked, remove the plum clafoutis from the oven , let it cool slightly, and then serve it dusted with powdered sugar.
The plum clafoutis can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days. The clafoutis can also be frozen in a tightly closed bag and then thawed at room temperature or in the microwave.
The beauty of clafoutis is that you can compose it as you like, as if it were a puzzle that suits you. Don't like brandy? Use dark rum, cognac, or amaretto. Not satisfied with only plums? Add other fruits (depending on the season) and make a mixed fruit clafoutis: the ones that best suit this recipe are peaches, cherries, apples, and pears. Feel the need for a richer batter? Replace the milk with the same amount of fresh cream. Missing the scent of cinnamon? Add it! Then, of course, let us know how it went.

