name:
Jerusalem artichoke flan
ingredients:
Jerusalem artichoke: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Potatoes: 0.75lb(350 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 1sprig
Water: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Chives: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 7 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the Jerusalem artichoke flan, you can start by cleaning the tuber: remove the outer skin with a peeler , then rinse it under running water and cut it into cubes ; in the end, you should obtain about 1.5 lbs of cleaned Jerusalem artichokes. In a large pan, pour a drizzle of oil and a clove of garlic, peeled and sliced thinly .
Slightly brown the garlic in the pan , then add the Jerusalem artichoke cubes, stir, and season with salt and pepper to taste. Let the Jerusalem artichokes cook for about 10 minutes. Meanwhile, peel the potatoes with a vegetable peeler ,
and cut them into small cubes to speed up the cooking; in a large pot, pour the oil and add the potatoes .
Add a sprig of rosemary , salt, and pepper to taste, and let them cook for 10 minutes. Stir occasionally to brown the potato cubes well. When they are nicely browned, turn off the heat . In a blender, place the cooked Jerusalem artichokes .
Add the potatoes as well , then blend everything. Next, add the eggs and the chopped chives .
Run the blender until you get a smooth and creamy mixture . Then prepare the 1/2 cup aluminum molds, brush them with some oil , and line them with parchment paper: cut out a circle for the bottom and strips for the sides to fully cover the molds .
Then, with a ladle, pour the Jerusalem artichoke and potato mixture into each mold , leaving half an inch from the edge. Place the molds in a high-edged baking tray and pour in water until it reaches the base of the flans . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40-45 minutes. Then remove the flans, place them on a baking sheet, and grill them for 5 minutes. Then take them out of the oven .
Remove the Jerusalem artichoke flans, let them cool slightly, then unmold them by turning them out onto a cutting board (22-23). You can serve them decorated with a sprig of chives and enjoy them warm or even cold as an appetizer or a tasty side dish!
You can store the Jerusalem artichoke flans in the refrigerator for up to 2-3 days in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap. They can be frozen if fresh ingredients have been used.
Better alone than in bad company, right? But if these flans were to meet a Parmesan cream or an herb sauce, it would be a whole different story, wouldn't it?

