name:
Flattened rice cake
ingredients:
Champignon mushrooms: 6cups(500 g)
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)- to grate
White onions: ½
Garlic: 1clove
Vegetable broth: 3 ¼cups(750 ml)- about
White wine: 2oz(60 ml)
Parsley: 1tuft
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the flattened rice cake, you can start by peeling and chopping the onion . Then focus on the champignon mushrooms, wash them under a strong stream of running water , then clean them one by one with a cloth or paper towel to remove the soil. Then remove the stem part with the roots and soil and cut the mushroom caps into rather thin slices .
Then also chop the bunch of fresh parsley . In a large pan, place the peeled garlic clove and pour in a drizzle of oil , then add the chopped parsley . Sauté for about 2 minutes.
Then add the champignon mushrooms and sauté over low heat for about 5 minutes, then add 2 tablespoons of white wine . Stir and let the mushrooms cook for about 5 minutes. Adjust with salt and pepper to taste, then let cook for about 15 minutes over medium heat. The mushrooms should not cook completely because they will finish cooking in the oven.
While the mushrooms are cooking, in a large pot, pour a drizzle of oil, add the previously chopped onion and sauté for about 5 minutes. Then sprinkle the rice , sauté for a couple of minutes, stirring with a wooden spoon, then pour the remaining 2 tablespoons of white wine . Continue cooking the risotto for about 20 minutes, gradually adding the Vegetable broth with a ladle .
When there are 2 minutes left until the rice is done, add 1/2 cup of Grana , briefly cream, turn off the heat, and let the risotto rest for a few minutes. Take a rectangular pan of 12x9 inches, line it with parchment paper soaked in water and squeezed so that it adheres well to the pan. Then with a spoon, start creating a layer of rice , compacting it with the back of the spoon.
Once you have covered the whole bottom , create a layer of mushrooms , then another layer of rice , so that the result is two layers with the mushroom filling.
Finally, sprinkle the surface with the remaining Grana . Finally, bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 30 minutes (if using a fan oven at 356°F for about 25 minutes). Then remove from the oven , let cool slightly, and cut your flattened rice cake into squares or rectangles before serving it hot or warm !
The flattened rice cake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended.
This recipe is a bomb, but know that you can vary it as you wish, changing the filling (for example using zucchini or peas), adding saffron, seasoning the rice with a very thick ragù before forming the layers and, finally, replacing Grana with your preferred cheese!

