name:
Cardoon flans
ingredients:
Thistles: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 1.1oz(30 g)- diced
Provola cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
White onions: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Carrots: 1
Eggs: 4
Lemons: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Vegetable broth: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the cardoon flans, start by cleaning the cardoon: first, wash the cardoons under running water , then cut off the end of the bunch and separate the individual stalks, removing any leaves. Take one stalk, and if it's exceedingly large or wide, cut it in half lengthwise. With a knife, notch one end and pull from the opposite side to remove the filaments , repeat the same process on the other end. Then cut the cardoons into small pieces and place them in a bowl full of water , where you have squeezed the juice of one lemon (a procedure that will prevent them from browning).
Now focus on the sauté that will serve as the base for cooking: wash, peel, and chop a carrot , peel the onion and finely chop it too , for further details consult the cooking school guide: How to make the soffritto . Place a large pan on the stove, pour a drizzle of oil ,
a whole clove of garlic , and the chopped onions and carrots . Sauté for at least 10 minutes,
then drain the previously soaked cardoons and add them to the pan . Stir with a spatula, salt , pepper and continue cooking until the cardoons become tender, which will take at least 40 minutes. If necessary, add a ladle of broth if the cardoons seem too dry.
Once cooking is finished , turn off the heat, let them cool slightly, and then place the cardoons in a blender , add the eggs ,
the grated Parmesan cheese and start the blender, blending everything until you obtain a creamy mixture . Now butter the rectangular molds measuring 6x4 inches , or alternatively, you can use muffin molds with a capacity of about ½ cup.
Cut out sheets of parchment paper to line the bottom and sides of the molds , make sure the paper adheres well, then pour the cardoon mixture with a ladle until halfway up , at this point fill half of the molds with a piece of cheese
and the other half with a few cubes of cooked ham , pour one last ladle of mixture to cover the molds up to the brim. Proceed with cooking: get a large baking tray that can hold the molds and place them inside, pour water into the tray to immerse the molds by about ¾ inch . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 35/40 minutes (or in a convection oven at 320°F for about 25/30 minutes). After this time, perform the toothpick test, which should come out dry. Once cooked, remove from the oven and turn them out onto a serving plate to unmold. Your cardoon flans are ready to be enjoyed!
You can store the cardoon flans in the fridge for up to 2-3 days in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap. It's possible to freeze the cooked flans if fresh ingredients have been used.
The secret of these flans lies in the gooey and flavorful center made of provolone and cooked ham. As always, feel free to personalize! For example, instead of provolone, you could use Emmental or spicy Gorgonzola (only if you're tough); and instead of ham, what about some diced bacon or salami? As for the cardoons, well, removing them changes the recipe altogether! But that doesn't mean it's not the right thing to do: browse through our flans and vegetable molds for other suggestions!

