name:
Chicken in carpione
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Water: 2cups(500 ml)
Dry white wine: 1cup(250 ml)
White wine vinegar: 1.1cups(250 ml)
Carrots: 1
Red onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Type 00 flour: to taste
Ground black pepper: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus 12 hours of resting

instructions:
To make chicken in carpione, start by peeling the carrot, then cut it into thin strips lengthwise . Take the onion, peel it and cut it in half, then place the flat part of one half on a cutting board and slice it lengthwise . Wash the celery stalk well under running water and remove the outer leaves, the lateral ones, and those at the top. Remove the external fibrous membrane with a vegetable peeler. Cut the stalk in half and slice it into strips .
Prepare the carpione: in a large bowl, pour the water , the white wine vinegar , and the dry white wine ,
add salt , whole peppercorns , and add the sliced vegetables to the marinade: the celery ,
the carrot , and the onion . Mix with a wooden spoon to season the ingredients. Now take care of the meat: cut the chicken breast into strips about 0.6 inches thick .
On a tray, place a layer of flour, add salt, and pepper and flour the chicken strips to cover them completely . Now place a high-sided pan suitable for frying on the stove, pour in the vegetable oil and heat it until it reaches a temperature of about 340°F. If you don't have a kitchen thermometer, to check the oil temperature, sprinkle some flour in the pot before adding the chicken: if it sizzles, the oil is hot enough for frying.
Fry the chicken strips, a few at a time, for a few minutes until they are slightly golden . Drain them with a slotted spoon and place them to dry on a tray lined with paper towels .
Let the chicken strips cool and then place them in the carpione (19-20), cover the bowl with plastic wrap . Let it rest overnight and then serve at the table in the same dish.
The chicken in carpione can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Carpione is a classic of Italian cuisine, usually used for fried small fish, trout, sardines, red mullet, or bleak. The mix of aromas varies from family to family, so know that you can 'carpionize' chicken (or turkey) with aromatic herbs like bay leaves, sage, mint, or even parsley!

