name:
Cake without eggs
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(375 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Natural plain yogurt: ¾cup(180 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ⅔cup(150 ml)
Blueberries: 1cup(150 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 0.3cup(80 ml)
Baking powder: 4tsp(16 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Powdered sugar: to taste
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the cake without eggs, start by sifting the flour and baking powder into a large bowl , then add the granulated sugar . Take the vanilla pod and cut it lengthwise
and with a small knife extract the seeds which you will add to the batter . Now pour in the seed oil (sunflower or peanut) ,
the fresh cream and the yogurt , and start mixing all the ingredients with an electric whisk (alternatively, you can proceed by hand with a whisk or with a stand mixer). Mix the ingredients well, add a pinch of salt .
At this point, the batter is ready: rinse the blueberries under running water , dry them with a kitchen towel, and pour them into the bowl , mix with a wooden spoon to incorporate them into the batter. Butter a 9-inch diameter pan and line it with parchment paper following the guidelines found in the cooking school How to line a cake pan with parchment paper.
Transfer the cake batter into the pan , level the surface with a spatula , and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 55 minutes (or in a convection oven at 320°F for about 45 minutes) or until the surface of the cake is golden brown. To check if it's done, do the toothpick test; if it comes out dry, you can take the cake out of the oven. Once done, remove the egg-free cake from the oven and let it cool before serving . Once cool, remove it from the pan and garnish the egg-free cake with a dusting of powdered sugar.
The egg-free cake can be stored out of the refrigerator under a glass dome for about 3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
As an alternative to blueberries, you can use any other type of fruit like cherries, plums, or apples depending on seasonal availability. If you want to add an alcoholic note to the cake, add a small glass of brandy to the batter, reducing the same amount of cream. For a light version, replace the cream with milk.

