name:
Rye bread
ingredients:
Rye flour: 3 ½cups(350 g)
Manitoba flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Water: 1.7cups(400 ml)- lukewarm
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(4 g)
Malt: 1tsp
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note more than 4 hours of dough rising

instructions:
To prepare rye bread, start by pouring the yeast (alternatively, you can use 12 g of fresh brewer's yeast) into a small bowl with half of the lukewarm water . Stir to dissolve the yeast, then add the teaspoon of malt (or sugar) . Mix to combine the malt .
Then, in a bowl, sift the manitoba flour (alternatively, you can use all-purpose flour) and add the rye flour . Mix the two flours with a spatula to combine them . Pour the yeast and malt into the bowl with the flours and mix.
Then dissolve the salt in the remaining lukewarm water , stir, and gradually pour the water over the dough , stirring as you go to absorb it .
Continue mixing to create a more compact mixture . Then let it rise in the bowl for at least 1 hour at room temperature, covered with plastic wrap. After the indicated time, it will have doubled in volume and will have bubbles . At this point, you can flour a work surface and start handling the dough: you should create a rather thick rectangular shape and fold the dough over itself .
Then continue to create folds starting from the shorter side towards the inside and doing the same from the other side . Flatten the dough again and start with the folds, this time folding the edges of the longer side towards the center .
Make some indentations with your fingers on the dough and create more folds (17-18). Finally, shape the dough into a rectangular shape.
Line a 10x4 inch loaf pan with parchment paper: this will allow you to easily remove the bread once baked. Place the dough inside and cover it with plastic wrap ; let it rise for about 3 hours at room temperature or until it reaches the edge of the pan . At this point, bake it in a static oven at 428°F for 35 minutes (392°F for about 30 minutes if using a convection oven). Then remove it from the oven , let it cool slightly, and serve your rye bread sliced to accompany lunches and dinners or to enjoy at breakfast!
Rye bread can be stored in a transparent or paper bag for a maximum of 1-2 days. You can freeze the dough, then thaw it in the refrigerator, work it, and let it come to room temperature before baking.
You can also add seeds, such as flaxseeds or sunflower seeds, to the dough to give it an even more rustic note.

