name:
Pear Blondies
ingredients:
Bartlett pears: 0.6lb(280 g)
Condensed milk: 8.8oz(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Butter: 3oz(80 g)
Brown sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Baking powder: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the pear blondies, start by peeling the pears and then cut them into cubes of about 1/2 inch . Place the pear cubes in a pan , flavor with a teaspoon of cinnamon , and quickly sauté over high heat.
After a few minutes, turn off the heat and let them cool completely and work on the batter: put the condensed milk in a large bowl , add the brown sugar and whip the mixture with an electric mixer (or a hand whisk) .
In another bowl, place the sifted flour and baking powder , add the salt and combine the dry ingredients with the condensed milk mixture . Add the melted and cooled butter and blend the ingredients, still using the electric mixer,
until you get a soft and homogeneous mixture . Finally, add the cinnamon-flavored pear chunks and mix with a spatula .
Butter a rectangular baking pan measuring 8x10 inches, line it with parchment paper (for all the details, refer to the guide: how to line a pan with parchment paper). Pour the batter into the pan and spread it well with a spatula (13-14). Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 40 minutes (if using a convection oven, 320°F for 30 minutes) until the surface is golden brown . Let the dessert cool,
flip it onto a cutting board and cut it into strips and then into cubes. Your pear blondies are ready to be enjoyed; if desired, you can sprinkle them with powdered sugar !
Store the blondies under a glass cover or in a tin box for up to 5 days. You can freeze the cooked blondies. Thaw them at room temperature.
To prepare the blondies, you can replace the pears with apples, and you can also add an alcoholic note by deglazing the fruit in the pan with a liqueur like rum or cognac. If you have leftover blondie batter, you could add it to a cake batter, such as a sponge cake, as it helps to keep baked goods moist and soft, and with the condensed milk, you can also make an excellent White chocolate pastry cream to fill it!

