name:
Orange cake with yogurt cream
ingredients:
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(240 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Greek yogurt: 0.7cup(170 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 10tbsp(140 g)
Potato starch: 0.8cup(100 g)
Baking powder: 4tsp(16 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Orange peel: 2
Orange juice: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Greek yogurt: 3cups(700 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.875oz(25 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Candied orange: to taste
Oranges: to taste- thin slices

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the orange cake with yogurt cream, start with the preparation of the base: place the egg yolks in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk, making sure to set aside the egg whites for later use. Add half of the granulated sugar to the yolks , start the mixer and beat the mixture to combine the ingredients , with the mixer running, pour the yogurt into the bowl
and the seed oil . Continue until the ingredients are incorporated and the mixture is smooth and homogeneous. Now grate the orange zest , squeeze the juice
and strain it through a sieve to collect the seeds. Add the orange juice to the mixture and whisk for a few moments, just enough time to absorb the liquid. At this point, sift the dry ingredients: flour, potato starch, and baking powder, and add them to the mixture one tablespoon at a time . Continue beating with the whisks until the ingredients are completely combined.
Now incorporate the grated orange zest as well . Take the egg whites you set aside and beat them to stiff peaks with a pinch of salt and the remaining half of the granulated sugar using a stand mixer with a whisk or an electric hand mixer. Gently fold the beaten egg whites into the mixture with a spatula, moving from bottom to top to avoid deflating them. Then take a 9.5-inch springform pan, grease it, and line it with parchment paper (you can consult the procedure here: how to line a cake pan with parchment paper). Pour the batter into the pan and bake the cake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 45 minutes until it is golden on the surface (or in a convection oven at 320°F for about 35 minutes).
Once cooked, take it out of the oven and let it cool . Now focus on the cream: soak the gelatin in cold water for 10 minutes . Split the vanilla bean in half lengthwise, extract the seeds, and add them to the yogurt .
Whip 7 fl oz of cream with half of the powdered sugar using a stand mixer or an electric hand mixer; separately, mix the remaining half of the powdered sugar with the yogurt and then incorporate the freshly whipped cream. Finally, dissolve the gelatin in the remaining 3.5 fl oz of heated cream
and add the obtained mixture to the cream of panna and yogurt ; mix well, cover the cream with plastic wrap , and let it rest for at least 1 hour in the fridge. When the cake is ready, remove it from the oven and let it cool, once cool, cut it in half with a serrated knife .
Fill the cake with half of the yogurt cream, spreading it with a spatula . Cover the cake with the other half of the base . At this point, you can take care of the garnish: take the remaining cream, blend half of it in the mixer for a few moments with a tablespoon of liquid cream
to soften and make it smoother . Place the cake on a wire rack and let the cream drip to fully cover the base. Put the remaining cream in a piping bag fitted with a star nozzle and decorate the surface of the cake with dollops .
Cut thin slices of oranges and score them with a knife , fold the slices creating a sort of spiral that you will apply to the cake along with the candied orange peels . Your orange cake with yogurt cream is now ready to be enjoyed !
Store the cake with yogurt cream for a couple of days in the refrigerator in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
For those with a sweet tooth, you can add chocolate chips or candied orange peels to the filling cream, or you can replace vanilla with ground cinnamon.

