name:
Risotto with zucchini pesto, yogurt, and prawns
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ¾cup(350 g)
Shrimp: 10.6oz(300 g)
Shallot: 1
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Dry white wine: 1.7oz(50 ml)
Lemon peel: 1- untreated
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Zucchini: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Greek yogurt: 0.3cup(70 g)
Pine nuts: 1oz(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Basil: 8leaves
Water: 6 ⅓cups(1.5 l)
White onions: 1- medium
Carrots: 1- medium
Celery: 1rib
Parsley: 1bunch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the risotto with zucchini pesto, yogurt, and prawns, start by How to clean shrimp that will be used for the risotto and to prepare the shellfish broth, which you can find the procedure for Shellfish Stock . Rinse the prawns under running water, place them on a cutting board, and gently detach the head and shell (1-2) from each one. Set aside heads and shells to prepare the broth, and in another small bowl, gather the meat. If you prefer, you can leave some peeled prawns but with the tail to sauté in a pan with a drizzle of oil for the final decoration of the dish. Then proceed to wash, trim, and cut the celery stalk and carrot into pieces; also slice the onion, previously peeled of the outer layers .
Place the soffritto in a large pot with a drizzle of oil. Sauté lightly for a few moments over low heat, then add the prawn shells and heads. Also add the fresh parsley, broken directly into the pot with your hands . Add 6 cups of water .
Adjust with salt and pepper and let it cook for at least 30-40 minutes over low heat ; during cooking, you can skim the broth with a slotted spoon, making sure to rinse it each time to remove any residue. The broth should be about half of the initial liquid . After this time, strain the broth with a fine-mesh sieve trying to extract as much liquid as possible. Discard the shells,
and set aside the obtained broth to add to the risotto to aid in cooking. To prepare the risotto, start with the soffritto: on a cutting board, trim and finely chop the shallot . Add it to a large pan with 2 tbsps of butter and sauté for a few moments over low heat, then pour in the Carnaroli rice .
Toast the rice for a few minutes, then deglaze with the white wine and let it evaporate. At this point, you can pour a ladle of filtered shellfish broth, stirring with a wooden spoon and waiting for it to be well absorbed before adding another. While the risotto cooks, you can prepare the zucchini pesto. Grate the zucchinis . Then let the excess water drain in a fine-mesh sieve (you can speed up the process by placing a small plate and a weight on the zucchinis so that the pressure helps them lose more liquid).
Then pour the zucchinis into a blender, add the pine nuts , the Greek yogurt , and blend until you obtain a homogeneous mixture . If you prefer to achieve an even denser and creamier result, you can mix the zucchini pesto and the yogurt in a small bowl using a spoon.
Pour the zucchini and yogurt pesto into the risotto , let it absorb for a few moments, and if necessary, add another ladle of broth. When there are a few minutes left for the risotto to cook, also add the raw prawns that you set aside earlier. Mix well with a wooden spoon to blend the ingredients .
At this point, grate the zest of 1 untreated lemon directly over the risotto . Adjust with salt and pepper to taste, then turn off the heat and mix the risotto with the remaining butter. Turn off the heat and your risotto with zucchini pesto, yogurt, and prawns is ready to be enjoyed . You can plate it, decorating if you wish with some prawns sautéed in a pan .
To flavor the risotto, you can also use the classic Genoese pesto.

