name:
Chicken stew with yogurt
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Broth: 1.3cups(300 ml)
Red onions: ½
Rosemary: 1sprig- to chop
Sage: 2leaves- to chop
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Greek yogurt: ¾cup(200 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Garlic: 1clove- (optional)
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Parsley: to taste- to chop
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus 2 hours of marination

instructions:
To prepare the chicken stew with yogurt, start by cutting the chicken breast into pieces about 3/4 inch thick . Then prepare the marinade: slice the chili pepper and remove the seeds , finely slice the onion
then in a baking dish, place 1 garlic clove, half of the chopped red onion, the chili pepper, and the Greek yogurt . Mix with a fork to blend the flavors well . Add the chicken pieces to the sauce , add salt,
pepper , and cover the dish with plastic wrap . Let the meat rest in the refrigerator for at least a couple of hours. After the chicken resting time, in a large pan, sauté half of the chopped onion with the aromatic herbs (rosemary, sage), also chopped ;
add the chicken along with its marinade sauce (10-11), sauté for 10 minutes, then season the preparation with grated nutmeg , and season with pepper and salt to taste,
cover the chicken with broth and let it cook over low heat for 1 hour, covering the pot with a lid. Meanwhile, prepare the parsley potatoes to serve as a side dish: peel and wash the potatoes, cut them into pieces , and blanch them in salted boiling water for 5 minutes. Drain them
and sauté them in a pan for another 5 minutes until they become crispy and golden . Now prepare the parsley sauce that will be used to flavor the potatoes: In a small mixer, place the parsley with the oil
Blend the mixture for a few moments , just enough time to emulsify the mixture, adjust the sauce with salt and pepper. If you don't have a mixer, you can chop the parsley with a knife and then emulsify with the oil using a whisk. In the meantime, the chicken stew with yogurt will be ready serve it hot with the potatoes seasoned with parsley sauce .
It is advisable to consume the chicken stew with yogurt as soon as it's ready; if there's any leftover, you can store it in the refrigerator in an airtight container for no more than one day.
To flavor the marinade sauce, you can add herbs such as thyme or parsley, or for those who love spices, a pinch of curry can be added.

