name:
Savory tart with ricotta and zucchini flowers
ingredients:
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Water: 4 ¾tbsp(70 ml)- chilled
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Zucchini: 1.25lbs(300 g)- with flowers
Anchovies in oil: 0.9oz(25 g)
Chives: 4- threads
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: to taste
Eggs: 1
Whole milk: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note plus 40 minutes of rest for the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
To make the savory tart, start by preparing the shortcrust pastry: place the flour , cold chopped butter , and a pinch of salt in a food processor and blend until you get a sandy and floury mixture. At this point, place the mixture obtained on a work surface
in the classic fountain shape and knead quickly, adding cold water little by little until you get a compact and fairly elastic dough . Once ready, wrap your shortcrust pastry in a sheet of kitchen plastic wrap and let it rest in the fridge for at least 40 minutes.
Now focus on the filling: wash and dry the zucchini, trim the ends, set the flowers aside, and slice the zucchini into rounds . Place a pan on the stove, add the anchovies , cover them with a drizzle of oil ,
add the sliced zucchini , salt, pepper, and sauté the zucchini in the pan over medium heat for a few minutes; they should not cook completely but remain slightly crunchy. Let them cool slightly . In a large bowl, place the ricotta, add 3-4 strands of chives finely chopped with scissors ,
salt , season with a sprinkle of grated nutmeg . Add the zucchini and mix the mixture with a spoon .
Now take a rectangular pan measuring 10x7 inches, butter it , and line it with a sheet of parchment paper, making it adhere well to the edges . Take the shortcrust pastry, take 2/3 of the dough (wrap the remaining dough with plastic wrap and store it in the refrigerator), place it on a work surface, and roll out a sheet of about 1/2 inch thick .
Wrap the dough around the rolling pin and unroll it onto the pan , press on all sides and the bottom of the pan to make the dough adhere, and use a pastry cutter to remove excess edges (20-21).
Pour the ricotta and zucchini filling into the pan, level it with the back of a spoon (22-23), take the zucchini flowers, wash them by dipping them in a bowl of cold water, dry them on a kitchen towel. When they are dry, remove the protrusions, keeping the lower cup, remove the stem and the internal pistil .
Arrange the flowers diagonally on the surface of the tart . Roll out the remaining shortcrust pastry with the rolling pin into a sheet about 1/5 inch thick , cut strips about 1/2 inch wide with a fluted pastry wheel .
Now place the strips obtained on the surface of the tart, following the line of the zucchini flowers. Brush the surface of the tart with a mixture of beaten egg and milk (28-29) and bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 55 minutes or in a fan oven at 320°F for 45 minutes. When the tart is golden on the surface, remove it from the oven . Enjoy your savory tart with ricotta and zucchini flowers warm.
You can store the savory tart with ricotta and zucchini flowers in the refrigerator for 3 days. You can freeze it in portions to thaw it more easily.
Sea or land tart? If you can't do without meat, know that you can replace the anchovies with sausage: the result will still be out of this world! If you're in the mood for changes, choose the seasonal vegetables you prefer!

