name:
Coffee Bundt Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Butter: 1.1cups(250 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 ml)
Instant coffee: 20tbsp(100 g)
Eggs: 5- medium
Baking powder: 1bag
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1pinch
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste- (optional)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the coffee bundt cake, start by pouring the granulated sugar into the bowl of a stand mixer, add the room temperature butter cut into pieces . Turn on the beaters at medium-high speed to whip the ingredients until you get a light and frothy mixture . Then add the eggs one at a time, continuing to run the beaters .
When you have well-mixed all the eggs and obtained a smooth and homogeneous mixture, reduce the speed of the beaters and proceed to sift the flour , and the baking powder collecting them together in a small bowl. Then reposition the beaters to the initial speed and gradually pour the sifted powders, using a spoon , then also add the vanilla extract or the seeds of a vanilla bean.
Once you have incorporated and mixed the ingredients well, you can proceed to dissolve the instant coffee in room temperature or slightly warmed milk . Stir with a teaspoon until the coffee is completely dissolved, then incorporate it gradually into the rest of the mixture in the stand mixer . Mix everything, continuing to run the beaters until you obtain a thick and homogeneous mixture. Then grease and flour a 9-inch diameter and 4-inch deep bundt pan and pour the mixture inside , leveling it with the help of a spatula. Place the cake to bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 50 minutes (if using a convection oven, 320°F for 40-45 minutes).
After the indicated time, check the cake's doneness by performing the toothpick test: if after inserting it into the batter it comes out dry, the coffee bundt cake is ready to be removed from the oven . Once completely cooled at room temperature, flip it onto a wire rack and dust it with powdered sugar; then place it on a serving plate or cake stand, and your coffee bundt cake is ready to sweeten every moment of your day!
You can store the coffee bundt cake for 3-4 days under a glass dome. Freezing is not recommended.
If you are a coffee lover, the bold taste of this cake will satisfy you, but if you prefer a milder flavor, reduce the amount of instant coffee. If, instead, you want to serve the bundt cake to children, you can use barley coffee (still instant), and – why not – add some dark chocolate flakes!
• Can I replace instant coffee with coffee from a moka pot?
You can try replacing the instant coffee and part of the milk with coffee from a moka pot, ensuring you recalibrate the dosages to achieve the right consistency of the batter.
• What can I use instead of coffee to serve the bundt cake to children?
Try using barley coffee as an alternative.
• I don't have a stand mixer, how can I make the batter?
You can use electric beaters.
• Is it essential to sift flour and baking powder?
Yes, it prevents lumps from forming in the batter.
• If I only have small eggs, how should I adjust the dosage?
You can weigh the eggs, keeping in mind that a medium egg weighs about 55-60 g.

