name:
Hazelnut Meringue Clouds
ingredients:
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Egg whites: ½cup(125 g)
Coffee: 2oz(60 ml)
Instant coffee: ½tsp(2 g)- granules
Whole milk: 2cups(500 ml)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(200 ml)
Hazelnut paste: ¾cup(180 g)
Sugar: 0.67cup(125 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.2oz(35 g)
Cornstarch: 2tbsp(15 g)
Egg yolks: 4
Chopped hazelnuts: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 3 h
Makes: 18 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus 1 hour for the cream to set

instructions:
To make the hazelnut meringue clouds, start by preparing the coffee with a moka pot, then place 60 ml of coffee and 200 grams of granulated sugar in a thick-bottomed pot , heat the mixture over low heat and stir to dissolve the sugar; as soon as the syrup starts to boil, immerse the kitchen thermometer , which will indicate the temperature, when the syrup reaches 240°F, begin beating the egg whites to stiff peaks at medium speed with a stand mixer equipped with whisks
Add 50 grams of granulated sugar and as soon as they turn white, add the soluble coffee granules . The egg whites must already be well whipped when the syrup reaches 250°F. When the syrup reaches the above temperature, pour it in a thin stream into the egg whites , continuing to whisk until the meringue cools completely.
The resulting meringue should be very thick, smooth, and shiny , and can only be baked when completely cool. Pour the meringue into a piping bag equipped with a star tip and squeeze the mixture onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, shaping the meringues into a round shape to create a sort of basket or nest . Bake the meringues in a preheated static oven at 175°F and let them dry for at least 3 hours with the oven door slightly ajar (to keep the door open, you can place a wooden spoon between the oven door), to prevent any possible condensation which would prevent correct drying.
In the meantime, prepare the cream: place the egg yolks and sugar in a bowl and beat with a hand whisk until you obtain a light and frothy mixture. Sift the flour and starch directly into the bowl , add the hazelnut paste , and mix with the whisk to incorporate the ingredients,
finally, add the milk and mix until you obtain a homogeneous cream . Pour the cream into a saucepan, filtering it with a sieve to catch any lumps
and bring to a boil over medium heat , continue cooking until you obtain a dense and compact cream , continuing to stir with the whisk. Transfer the obtained cream into a baking dish, cover with plastic wrap in contact with the surface of the mixture , let it cool slightly, then place the cream in the refrigerator to set for at least one hour.
After the cooling time, incorporate 200 ml of whipped cream into the cream , mixing with a whisk , for more details consult the card How to Whip Cream . Transfer the cream into a piping bag equipped with a star tip and keep it in the fridge until ready to use.
In the meantime, check the cooking of the meringues, they are ready when they are firm and slightly colored at the bottom . Once cooked, remove them from the oven and let them cool. When everything is ready, you can start assembling the pastries: place the cooled meringues on a tray and add a dollop of cream in the center of each meringue. Your hazelnut meringue clouds are ready, garnish them with chopped hazelnuts and enjoy!
Store the hazelnut meringue clouds in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. You can store the unfilled meringues in a tin box for 5 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you don’t like hazelnut cream, you can replace it with another cream of your choice: Pastry cream , Chantilly cream , Ganache cream are some examples.

