name:
Potato ravioli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Eggs: 2- (at least 70 grams each)
Potatoes: 0.75lb(330 g)
Sausage: 4.6oz(130 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Thyme: 6tsp(6 g)
Mint: 1tsp(6 g)
Chives: 1 ¼tsp(6 g)
Parsley: 2tbsp(6 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Water: to taste
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Sage: 6leaves

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note plus 1 hour of dough resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the potato ravioli, start by making the egg pasta. You can refer to the procedure from the Cooking School: Homemade pasta (sheets and shapes) . In the bowl of a stand mixer, sift the flour and add the eggs . Mount the K-beater and mix at medium-high speed to create a homogeneous and soft dough .
Then transfer the dough to a work surface or a cutting board and form a ball. Wrap it with plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator for at least an hour. In the meantime, prepare the filling: boil the potatoes in a large pot for about 15-20 minutes or until cooked. To facilitate cooking, you can also cut the potatoes in half. While they cook, peel two garlic cloves and place them in a small pan with oil .
Remove the casing from the sausage by gently cutting it. Add it to the pan and cook for about 15 minutes or until well browned, turning the sausages on all sides to cook evenly. When well browned, turn off the heat and remove the garlic cloves .
When the potatoes are cooked, drain them and let them cool slightly. Then transfer them to a cutting board to peel, using a kitchen towel or cloth to avoid burning yourself . Once peeled, slice them and place them in a blender. Add a pinch of salt and the roasted sausage pieces .
Add parsley , mint leaves , and thyme to the other ingredients,
then also add chives and a grating of nutmeg . Blend until you have a smooth cream, then add the grated Grana Padano cheese . Blend until creamy and homogeneous.
Transfer the filling to a small bowl and keep it cool. Meanwhile, after the necessary time, take the egg pasta ball from the refrigerator, divide it in half, and roll out one half with a rolling pin, then use a pasta roller to make a very thin sheet . Flour a small ravioli mold (if you don't have one, you can simply lay the sheet on a surface)
spread the sheet over the mold and trim the excess dough with a small knife (23-24),
then take the bowl with the filling and fill a piping bag using a spatula . Place a dollop of filling in each indentation of the mold until all are filled .
Brush the surface of the sheet around the filling . Then roll out the other half of the egg pasta and place it over the filling . Press lightly with your fingers to adhere the two sheets.
Then, using a fluted pastry cutter, trim the edges to create the ravioli (31-32). Place the ravioli on a tray lined with a lightly floured kitchen cloth .
Fill a pot with water, salt to taste, and bring to a boil. While the water heats, in a large pan, melt the butter over very low heat . Add the sage leaves . Let the sage wilt for a few moments. Meanwhile, when the water boils, cook the ravioli : 1-2 minutes will suffice (they will be done when they begin to float to the surface).
Then drain them using a slotted spoon and place them directly in the pan with butter and sage . Stir and sauté for a few moments, then turn off the heat and serve the potato ravioli hot !
You can store cooked potato ravioli in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 1-2 days at most. You can freeze them raw in special freezer bags if you used all fresh and not previously frozen ingredients. To freeze, place the tray with the ravioli in the freezer to harden for a couple of hours. Once hardened, put them in freezer bags, preferably already portioned, and store them in the freezer again. When you use them, boil them directly from frozen in boiling water and proceed as per the recipe.
You can vary the potato ravioli filling by replacing the sausage with a vegetable of your choice, or add Pecorino instead of Grana Padano to the filling for a more distinct taste!
Alternatively, you can use ricotta as in the Polish recipe for Pierogi .

