name:
Savory pancakes with tomato and basil
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Gruyere cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)- to be grated
Triple concentrated tomato paste: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Butter: 1 ¾tbsp(25 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Baking powder: 1 ¼tsp(6 g)
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: to taste
Sour cream: ½cup(100 g)
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the savory tomato and basil pancakes, start by separating the egg yolks from the whites. In the small bowl with the yolks, pour in the melted butter that has cooled down . Mix with the whisk , then add the room temperature milk slowly and continue to mix with the whisk.
In a separate small bowl, add the baking powder to the flour and sift them directly into the bowl with the eggs. Mix the ingredients with the whisk until you get a smooth mixture.
Also add the grated gruyère cheese and mix well to combine the ingredients. Coarsely chop the basil and add it to the mixture .
Then also pour in the tomato paste , mix the ingredients well, and set aside for a moment. Take the egg whites that you had placed in another bowl, add a pinch of salt, and beat them until stiff. Then gently add them to the batter using a spatula .
Mix from the bottom up to avoid deflating the egg whites . When the batter is well combined and smooth , heat a flat pan and grease it with a pat of butter evenly over the entire surface. Pour a small amount of batter at a time with a ladle to create the pancakes . Cook them for about 1 minute or until the side in contact with the pan is well cooked.
Then turn them over with the appropriate spatula and let them brown for about 1 minute on the other side as well. As they are ready, place them on a tray and when you are done, cover them with plastic wrap while you start preparing the cream. On a cutting board, chop the mint leaves .
Pour the sour cream (or alternatively you can use Greek yogurt) into a small bowl and add the mint leaves ; salt and pepper to taste and mix with a spoon . Now that your cream is ready, you can decorate each pancake: with a piping bag fitted with a star nozzle, decorate the savory tomato pancakes with the cream and serve them, adding, if you like, a mint leaf and poppy seeds for a delicious appetizer !
The savory tomato and basil pancakes can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. The cream can be stored separately in a bowl covered with plastic wrap for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can also pair the savory tomato and basil pancakes with other sauces of your choice!

