name:
Grilled Pleurotus
ingredients:
Oyster mushroom or oyster fungus (Pleurotus): 8 ½cups(600 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 ml)
Apple cider vinegar: 1tsp
Mint: 6leaves
Lemon juice: 2tsp(10 ml)
Lemon peel: 1tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Lemons: to taste- thin slices
Lamb's lettuce: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the grilled pleurotus, start by cleaning the mushrooms: use a kitchen cloth to clean the surface of the caps and the stem to remove the soil , then with a small knife separate the stems from the cluster (2-3) and if necessary, wipe the caps and inner gills with the cloth to remove any remaining dirt. Set aside the individual whole caps for cooking.
Now prepare the emulsion to flavor the grilled pleurotus: finely chop the mint leaves , then pour the olive oil into a bowl , the lemon juice ,
a pinch of salt , a teaspoon of apple cider vinegar and a teaspoon of lemon zest , finally add the chopped mint leaves .
Mix with a whisk to blend the emulsion and set aside . Now focus on grilling the pleurotus mushrooms: place a cast iron grill over the heat and let it warm up, once hot, distribute the mushrooms on the griddle , cook them for a few minutes on each side until they are well cooked.
Once cooked, remove the mushrooms from the heat using kitchen tongs and place them on a serving dish . Season the pleurotus with the previously prepared oil and lemon emulsion and serve your grilled pleurotus immediately while still hot, garnishing the plate with lamb's lettuce and lemon slices as desired .
It is recommended to consume the grilled pleurotus immediately, if any leftovers remain you can store them in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Let's talk about aromas: which do you prefer? In this case, I chose mint, but if you don't like it, you can replace it with chopped parsley, just as with apple cider vinegar: if you prefer stronger flavors, say goodbye to it and replace it with wine vinegar!

