name:
Cantucci with Gorgonzola
ingredients:
Gorgonzola cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)- sweet
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Walnut kernels: ½cup(60 g)
Pine nuts: 2oz(60 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Cream of tartar: ½tsp(3 g)
Baking soda: ¼tsp(1 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the gorgonzola cantucci, start by toasting the pine nuts: place a pan on the stove and toast the pine nuts, stirring frequently to prevent them from burning . Let the pine nuts cool, then place them together with the walnuts in a mixer and coarsely chop them for a few moments, they should not be finely ground . Then proceed to prepare the dough for the cantucci: on a pastry board, sift the flour, cream of tartar, and baking soda and form the classic fountain. Pour the grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese in the center , salt,
pepper and flavor with a sprinkle of grated nutmeg . Also add the softened butter and gorgonzola .
Begin to mix the ingredients by hand , then add the whole eggs and continue to knead to incorporate the eggs .
Lastly, add the chopped walnuts and pine nuts . At this point, shape the dough into two loaves about 12 inches long . Transfer the loaves onto a baking tray lined with parchment paper and bake for 20 minutes in a static oven preheated to 375°F (or in a fan oven at 340°F for about 15 minutes).
After this time, remove the loaves , let them cool for a few minutes, and then cut them diagonally into cookies (or cantucci) about 0.5-0.6 inches thick . Place the cookies back on the tray and bake again in a preheated static oven at 340°F for about 10-15 minutes (or in a fan oven at 300°F for about 5-10 minutes). Remove the gorgonzola cantucci , let them cool, and then serve them.
The gorgonzola cantucci can be stored in a tin box for up to 5 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Leave every taste bud on alert, you readers: the more daring among you can replace the mild gorgonzola with the spicy one, the result will be a flavor bomb. Delicious, but fiery. A word to the wise is enough, right? If you're not among them, we suggest limiting the boldness to brie, taleggio, or camembert, or substituting pistachios for the walnuts and pine nuts: simpler, if you like, but much safer!

