name:
Bolognese rising
ingredients:
Water: 0.67cup(160 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(3 g)
Lard: 4.4oz(125 g)- at room temperature
Water: ½cup(130 g)
Prosciutto crudo: 4.2oz(120 g)
Smoked pancetta: 3oz(80 g)
Brewer's yeast: ⅛tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: ¾tsp(5 g)
Sugar: ½tsp(2.5 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Water: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the resting and maturation time of the biga (12-18 h) and the rising of the dough

instructions:
To prepare the Bolognese rising, start by making the biga: in a stand mixer with a hook attachment, add the sifted flour and the dry yeast . While you begin mixing at medium speed, add the room temperature water gradually .
Let the mixer run until you get a homogeneous dough . Then transfer the biga to a bowl, cover with transparent plastic wrap, and let it rest at room temperature (or in a turned-off oven with the light on) for about 1 hour . After this time, place it in the refrigerator for a minimum of 12 hours up to a maximum of 18 hours to mature the biga. After this time, transfer it again to a turned-off oven with the light on for another 2 hours. Meanwhile, proceed with the preparation of the rising dough: cut the raw ham into small cubes .
Cut the smoked bacon into cubes as well . Add both the ham and bacon to a mixer and blend : the chopped cubes should be fine but not completely mashed. Temporarily set aside.
Now proceed with the dough: in a stand mixer, add the sifted flour , the sugar , and the dry yeast .
Add the biga and begin mixing with the paddle while gradually adding the room temperature water . Let it run until you have a homogeneous dough. Then replace the paddle with the hook attachment and continue kneading for an additional 5 minutes. Next, divide the room temperature lard into two parts: add one part and when it is completely incorporated into the dough, add the second. Let the mixer run for another 7-8 minutes.
At this point, add the salt and knead for 1 minute until it is completely absorbed into the dough. Also add the ham and bacon and continue kneading for another 2-3 minutes: the dough should end up wrapped around the hook . Let it rest inside the mixer, covered with transparent plastic wrap, for about 15 minutes. After this time, give the dough 3 strengthening folds and let it rest for another 15 minutes. Repeat the operation two more times, each 15 minutes apart.
Finally, oil a pan of 16.5x11.8 inches and place the dough inside : spread it with your hands, applying gentle pressure with your fingers on its surface so that it is evenly distributed in the pan . Then mix the oil with water and create an emulsion by shaking the two liquids with a fork .
Spread the emulsion over the entire surface of the rising : let it rise like this for about 1 hour in a turned-off oven with the light on. Then bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 60 minutes (if you don't have a static oven, bake with a fan oven at 356°F for 50 minutes). Remove from the oven and enjoy your Bolognese rising !
The Bolognese rising is excellent when enjoyed freshly baked. You can store it in paper bags for 1-2 days.
It can be frozen either cooked or uncooked. In this latter case, you can roll it out, place it in the freezer, then thaw and let it rise for about 1 hour once thawed, and continue the preparation as per the photo recipe.
You can prepare the rising with butter instead of lard in the same quantities or by replacing the lard with 112.5 g of oil. If you prefer, you can substitute the filling by using fresh cracklings.

