name:
Roast stuffed with figs and cured ham
ingredients:
Pork loin: 1.5lbs(700 g)- a single slice
Figs: 1.9cups(280 g)
Prosciutto crudo: 5oz(140 g)- sliced
Vegetable broth: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Carrots: 2
Celery: 2ribs
Red Tropea onions: 1
Thyme: 1sprig
Marjoram: 1sprig
Rosemary: 1sprig
Sage: 1leaf

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the roast stuffed with figs and cured ham, start with the vegetables that will be used to cook the roast. Clean and trim the carrots, then cut them in half . Wash the celery stalks and cut them into fairly large pieces . Then clean the red onion and cut it into fairly large pieces as well . Set the vegetables aside.
Then take the meat, place it on a cutting board, cover it with a sheet of parchment paper , and pound it with a meat mallet to make it thin and tender. Then remove the parchment paper and place the slices of prosciutto on the meat . Next, wash the figs and, with the skin on, cut them into slices about a quarter inch thick .
Also place the fig slices creating a layer over the prosciutto, leaving about half an inch from the edge, then start rolling the roast tightly , gently to avoid the filling from spilling out, until it is completely closed .
Now proceed to tie the roast with kitchen twine. For this operation, you can consult the cooking school: How to tie a roast . Pass the twine first under and then over the meat , along the length, securing the ends of the string tightly at the end and leaving one part of the twine slightly longer. To form the cage, take the twine and create a loop, holding the base of it with your fingers, insert your hand into the loop .
Twist the cord a couple of times then pass the meat through the loop obtained . Secure the base of the loop by tightening the ring created around the meat and pulling the twine slightly upwards to tighten the knot . Complete the cage by repeating this operation along the entire length of the meat. Finally, secure everything with a knot at the end of the meat .
Insert a sprig of marjoram, a sprig of thyme, and a sprig of rosemary into the cage . Then take a large pan, pour enough olive oil to cover the bottom, add the roast , and turn it to brown it on the other side (use 2 wooden spoons to help you turn it).
Add the previously chopped vegetables to the pan , then salt and pepper to taste (20-21).
Pour in the vegetable broth (find the Vegetable broth guide here) and cook with the lid on on low heat for one and a half hours, turning the roast occasionally. Once the necessary time has elapsed, uncover it and turn off the heat .
Remove the roast to a wire rack and let it cool slightly ; pour the cooking base into a mixer to blend it and obtain a thick sauce that you will use as a side.
Then when it has cooled , take the roast and place it on a cutting board, slice it into slices about 1-1.5 inches thick . Your roast stuffed with figs and cured ham will then be ready to be served hot or warm accompanied by the vegetable sauce!
You can store the roast stuffed with figs and cured ham in the fridge for up to 3 days, covered with plastic wrap, and heat it before serving. You can freeze the cooked roast only if you used fresh, non-defrosted meat. When ready to use, you can thaw it in the fridge the night before and then heat it before serving.
Well, if you're true indulgence lovers, you will certainly appreciate the idea of sprinkling a teaspoon of honey on the figs before rolling the roast (if desired, veal, beef, or turkey are also perfect). Serve it as planned with roasted potatoes or seasonal vegetables: unforgettable!

