name:
Stuffed squid with escarole
ingredients:
Calamari (squid): 2.6lbs(1.2 kg)- (8 pieces)
Escarole (endive): 16cups(800 g)
Provola cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Black olives: 2.1oz(60 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Anchovies in oil: 2
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the escarole-stuffed squid, start by cleaning the squid (you can refer to the Cooking School guide: how to clean squid). After rinsing the squid under running water, gently detach the head from the mantle with your hands and set it aside . Still with your hands, locate the transparent cartilage pen inside the mantle and extract it gently. Rinse the squid again under running water, wash it thoroughly, and use your hands to remove the innards from the mantle and the ink sac if present . Proceed to remove the outer skin: with a small knife, make a small incision at the end of the mantle, just enough to grip the skin and pull off the cover completely with your hands or with the help of a small knife .
To finish cleaning the mantle, still with a small knife, remove the fins to use them in the preparation . Now take the head you set aside and separate it from the tentacles by cutting just below the eyes with a small knife. Take the tentacles and remove the central tooth as follows: open the tentacles outward with your hands and push the central part, the mouth, upward . With your hands, pull the skin off the tentacles . Rinse all the clean parts of the squid thoroughly under running water and set them aside in a small bowl while you continue with the preparation.
Wash the head of escarole, then coarsely chop the leaves , removing the core. Then cut the provolone into cubes . Prepare the olives as well (if you don't have pitted ones, you can remove the pit with a small knife). In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil and add the peeled garlic clove .
Then add the anchovy fillets and melt them on low heat while stirring with a wooden spoon. Next, add the pitted olives and the escarole .
Season with salt and pepper, stir , and cook for 20 minutes, until the escarole has wilted and gained flavor. Then turn off the heat, remove the garlic from the pan , and transfer the escarole to a bowl to cool. When it's cool, add the diced provolone and mix the stuffing ingredients.
Now you can start stuffing the squid. Use a spoon to put the filling into each squid, and use tongs to fill the mantle well to the bottom . Then close the squid with a toothpick, threading it through the edges of the mantle . Take a large pan and heat a drizzle of oil. Add the squid to cook on both sides.
Cook them for about 20 minutes over medium heat , turning them often. When they're cooked, remove them from the pan and leave the cooking base in which you can cook the heads you cleaned earlier for about ten minutes. Then turn off the heat and serve the heads along with the escarole-stuffed squid !
Store the escarole-stuffed squid in the fridge for up to 2 days, covered with plastic wrap. They can be frozen stuffed only if you have used fresh, not thawed, squid.
A stuffing is never rich enough: if you feel something is missing, add a tablespoon of toasted pine nuts and capers.

