name:
Meringues with Red Fruits
ingredients:
Strawberries: 0.9cup(125 g)
Raspberries: ½cup(60 g)
Egg whites: ½cup(100 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(125 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 3 h
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the red fruit meringues, start by cleaning the fruit. Rinse the raspberries and strawberries under running water, then remove the green leaves from the latter using a knife and cut them in half. Then place the raspberries and strawberries in the mixer , turn on the mixer to blend the fruit until you get a homogeneous pulp . Then filter it with a fine mesh strainer, using a spatula or a spoon to collect the sifted pulp in a small bowl . The pulp thus collected should weigh about 2.6 oz.
Then pass it into a small saucepan, add 3.5 oz of sugar and light the fire, stirring to dissolve the sugar . Bring the pulp to 250°F , monitoring the temperature with a food thermometer. When the syrup reaches 239°F, start whipping the egg whites.
Pour the egg whites into the bowl of a stand mixer and turn on the beaters (if you don't have a stand mixer, you can use an electric whisk). When they are semi-whipped, with the beaters still running, add 0.9 oz of sugar . Whip again to incorporate the sugar, then when the syrup has reached 250°F, add it in a stream to the whipped egg whites , continuing to run the beaters until you create a homogeneous, frothy and completely cold mixture.
When the cream is ready, transfer it to a piping bag with a star nozzle . Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and start creating dollops of meringue, spacing them a couple of inches apart from each other . When you have finished all the dough , bake in a static oven at 212°F for 3 hours, until the meringues are firm and slightly colored underneath. Unlike the French meringue (basic dough) , this meringue remains a little soft on the outside and crunchy on the inside.
Store the red fruit meringues in a tin box for up to 5 days. Freezing is not recommended.
The red fruit meringue can also be used as a base for the cream of Phyllo dough cannoli with red fruit meringue , adding cream and gelatin as indicated in the cannoli procedure!
The most well-known meringue is the French one, which involves baking: the one we propose is instead a version of the Italian meringue. The difference is that the egg whites are already cooked when the hot fruit syrup is added, and the main consequence is that... it can be consumed immediately, even as a cream to coat cakes! What are you waiting for? :)

