name:
Prawn Frittata
ingredients:
Eggs: 8- medium
Shrimp: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Parsley: 4sprigs
Shallot: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the prawn frittata, start by carefully rinsing the prawns under running water. Then remove the head by applying pressure and pulling with your fingers . Continue by detaching all the shells and extracting the pulp from the exoskeleton . Then take a small knife, make an incision along the back of the prawn, and remove the internal intestine . To learn how to do this best, you can consult our Cooking School: How to clean shrimp .
Now wash the parsley stems and pat them dry with a clean kitchen cloth or paper towel, then peel a clove of garlic and clean a shallot. Place them on a cutting board and chop them finely . At this point, break the eggs into a bowl , beat them with a fork or whisk , and add salt and pepper to taste.
Take a non-stick pan, heat the oil, and pour in the chopped garlic, parsley, and shallot and sauté for a few seconds. Add the cleaned and shelled prawns to the sauté and let them brown over medium heat for about 5 minutes until they are slightly pink. After this time, add the beaten eggs to the pan , tilting the pan to ensure the mixture covers the entire surface of the skillet.
Let everything cook for 2 minutes over low heat, then cover with a lid and continue cooking for 5-6 minutes until the surface is sufficiently set. At this point, flip the frittata with the help of the lid or a plate, turning it over and sliding it back into the pan, and let the other side cook for another 2 minutes without a lid. When the frittata has a denser consistency and a deeper color , turn off the heat, plate your prawn frittata, and serve it hot or cold!
You can store your prawn frittata in the refrigerator well covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for up to 2 days. If the prawns you use are fresh and not previously frozen, you can also freeze the frittata cut into cubes.
Served with a light salad or cut into cubes, this frittata will not look out of place on any buffet and will spark the curiosity of guests: it's original and surprising, I challenge anyone to imagine the wonder behind the first bite! 
If you want to add your touch, you can flavor the prawns (or shrimp, they work just as well) with lime or honey, or by sprinkling everything with paprika. If you don't like shallots, use fresh scallions.

