name:
Phyllo dough cannoli with red fruit meringue
ingredients:
Phyllo dough: 9.5oz(270 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Egg whites: ½cup(100 g)
Strawberries: 0.875cup(125 g)
Raspberries: ½cup(60 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(125 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.1oz(3 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Currants: to taste
Mint: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 18 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the phyllo dough cannoli with red fruit meringue, first prepare the meringue: wash and dry the raspberries and strawberries well. Blend the red fruits in a mixer (1-2) and strain the obtained liquid to filter out the fruit seeds (the filtered liquid should weigh about 2.6 oz) .
In a small saucepan, combine the fruit juice and 3.5 oz of sugar , stir with a spoon checking the temperature with a kitchen thermometer. In the meantime, when the syrup reaches 239°F, whip the egg whites in a planetary mixer ,
when they are semi-whipped, add 0.9 oz of sugar and continue to whip until stiff. At this point, once the syrup has reached 250°F , remove it from the heat and pour it slowly over the whipped egg whites
continuing to whip until completely cooled , for more details consult the Italian Meringue guide. Finally, add the juice of half a lemon and transfer the mixture to a bowl. Now soak the gelatin in cold water for 10 minutes , after this time squeeze it
and dissolve it in 1.7 oz of warm cream . Whip the remaining 8.5 oz of cream (14 -15) (for more details on this process consult the guide How to Whip Cream from our cooking school).
gently fold the whipped cream into the meringue , stirring from bottom to top, so that it does not deflate, finally pour in the cream in which you have dissolved the gelatin and mix well, cover with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator to set for at least a couple of hours.
Now prepare the cannoli: unroll the phyllo dough and cut it in half , brush each sheet with melted butter then overlap 3 sheets and cut them into three parts lengthwise and then in half widthwise, obtaining rectangles of about 2.75 x 4 inches. Roll each rectangle around the cannoli tube ensuring the non-buttered side adheres to the tube (otherwise after baking they will not detach from the mold).
Place the cannoli on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , brush the surface with butter, and bake in a static oven at 392°F for 18 minutes (or in a fan oven at 356°F for about 15 minutes). Once baked, remove the cannoli from the oven , gently remove the tube with a cloth, being careful not to burn yourself with the tube , and let them cool on a wire rack.
Transfer the now set cream into a piping bag and fill the cannoli . Garnish with a currant berry and a mint leaf , dust the surface with powdered sugar and serve. Your phyllo dough cannoli with red fruit meringue are ready to be enjoyed!
The phyllo dough cannoli with red fruit meringue can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
A cannoli is a cannoli, a real temptation, whether you garnish it with currants, wild strawberries, or blueberries. Note: Crispness and deliciousness will remain unchanged even if you replace phyllo dough with puff pastry. Who will take the first bite?

