name:
Zuccotto with Concord grapes
ingredients:
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(130 g)
Potato starch: 4tbsp(50 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 6tbsp(30 g)
Honey: 0.7tbsp(15 g)
Eggs: 3
Egg yolks: 8
Butter: to taste
Strawberry grapes: 3.3lbs(1.5 kg)
Fresh liquid cream: 2 ½cups(600 ml)
Sugar: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Lemon juice: 1
Strawberry grapes: 3 ⅓cups(500 g)
Water: 2spoonfuls
Fresh liquid cream: 2 ⅛cups(500 g)
Powdered sugar: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Strawberry grapes: to taste
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste- (optional)
Mint: to taste- (optional)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note plus 2 hours of firming in the freezer

instructions:
To prepare the Concord grape zuccotto, start with the cocoa sponge cake (you can also see the procedure here: Cocoa sponge cake ). Pour the sugar into the bowl of a stand mixer (if you don't have one, you can use a deep bowl and an electric mixer) , add the whole eggs and the 8 yolks .
Then pour in the honey , activate the beaters and whip the ingredients for about 15 minutes until you obtain a fluffy and homogeneous mixture . In a separate small bowl, sift together the cornstarch (or cornflour), flour, and cocoa .
Then incorporate the sifted powders into the cream obtained . Continue to whip with the beaters until completely amalgamated. Then take a 9.5-10 inch diameter mold (preferably springform), butter it and line it with parchment paper (you can see the procedure here: how to line a cake pan with parchment paper). Pour the obtained mixture inside and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 45 minutes (if using a convection oven, bake at 320°F for 35-40 minutes). When the sponge cake is ready, take it out of the oven , and let it cool slightly.
Then remove it from the mold and let it cool completely on a wire rack . Now you can focus on the filling of the zuccotto, the Concord grape ice cream, whose recipe you can also find here. Wash the Concord grape berries under running water, place them in a mixer , and blend them .
Pass the juice through a sieve to remove the seeds and skins . Now squeeze the juice of a lemon and filter it as well using a fine mesh sieve .
Then pour the filtered lemon juice into the bowl with the Concord grape juice and cover with plastic wrap . Place the bowl in the refrigerator while you continue with the rest of the preparation. Take a large saucepan, pour in the fresh liquid cream .
Then add the sugar . Turn on medium heat and bring the mixture to a temperature of 181°F, verifying the temperature with a food thermometer . Once the indicated temperature is reached, remove the mixture from the heat and cool it quickly in a blast chiller or by transferring it into a bowl full of ice to cool it very rapidly .
When both the cream and sugar mixture and the Concord grape juice are well chilled, mix them together (22-23) and transfer them to the ice cream maker . The ice cream maker's bowl must be very cold, so we recommend putting it in the freezer at least the night before.
Turn on the ice cream maker until the mixture has thickened (it will take about 30-35 minutes) . Then pour the obtained ice cream into a large bowl , level it, and leave it in the freezer for at least 30 minutes. In the meantime, start preparing the soaking syrup for the cocoa sponge cake. Blend the Concord grape needed for the soaking syrup as you did previously (sequences 11-12-13) and pour the extracted juice into a small bowl. Then dilute the juice with 2 tablespoons of water .
Then proceed to butter a 8.5-inch diameter zuccotto mold and line it with parchment paper. Cut the sponge cake into slices about 0.4 inches thick and line the mold .
Now that you have lined the zuccotto , take the Concord grape soaking syrup and carefully brush the sponge cake . Then take the ice cream out of the freezer, pour it into the zuccotto, and level it using a spatula .
Cover the ice cream with more slices of sponge cake and brush these too with the Concord grape soaking syrup . Put the zuccotto in the freezer until it is completely set (it will take about 2 hours). When it is well set, gently remove it from the mold: to facilitate the operation, you can quickly dip the zuccotto in a bowl of boiling water for just a few seconds .
Carefully flip the zuccotto onto a serving plate . Finally, whip the cream that will be used to decorate the zuccotto. In a stand mixer (or in a bowl with an electric mixer), pour fresh cream, activate the beaters, and add the powdered sugar . When the cream is well whipped, transfer the mixture into a piping bag with a star tip . For detailed instructions on whipping cream, you can look How to Whip Cream .
Start decorating the Concord grape zuccotto by covering the entire surface with dollops of cream . Then finish with a bunch of Concord grapes and, if desired, some mint leaves and a sprinkle of unsweetened cocoa . Store your Concord grape zuccotto in the freezer and take it out about 15 minutes before serving!
The Concord grape zuccotto can be stored in the freezer for at least 3-4 days.
The chocolate is flexible: you can remove it from the sponge cake using white chocolate or add it to the ice cream (in the form of chocolate chips). If you find that your zuccotto is not yet personalized enough, well, move on to the liqueurs: you can flavor the soaking syrup with whatever you prefer!

