name:
Tandoori Salmon
ingredients:
Salmon steaks: 1.8lbs(800 g)- deboned
Natural plain yogurt: 0.67cup(150 g)
Tandoori pasta: 0.4cup(100 g)
Garlic paste: 2tsp(10 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Curry: ½tsp(2 g)
Powdered ginger: ½tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus 4 hours of salmon marination

instructions:
To prepare tandoori salmon, start with the marinade: pour the tandoori paste into a bowl , add the garlic paste and ginger powder . You can find tandoori paste in ethnic stores, otherwise, you can use the garam masala mix, which is more common in supermarkets.
Add the plain yogurt and mix the ingredients with a spoon for a few seconds , then pour in the lemon juice , which you have squeezed beforehand.
Finally, add the curry and adjust the salt, if necessary. Mix again to combine everything , then pour part of the sauce into a baking dish . Remember to set aside some sauce to drizzle over the salmon fillets before baking.
Once a base of sauce is created, place the 4 boneless salmon fillets, each weighing 200g (about 7 oz) , and pour the rest of the tandoori sauce over them , making sure to cover them completely .
Cover the baking dish with plastic wrap , transfer it to the refrigerator, and let it marinate for 4 hours. After this time, take out the baking dish , then oil a baking tray and line it with parchment paper so that it adheres better .
Now place the marinated salmon fillets on the baking tray, using a spatula , drizzle them again with the tandoori sauce you set aside , and bake them in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 25 minutes, if using a fan oven, cook at 320°F for about 20 minutes. When the sauce has set and the fillets are crispy , your tandoori salmon is ready to be served!
You can store tandoori salmon in the refrigerator for 1 day in an airtight container or well-covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended.
India, mon amour. If you don't have a trip to India planned soon, you'll need to get tandoori paste from ethnic stores, but not all of them have it. If you can't find it, replace it with the garam masala mix, which is also sold in supermarkets. The result will still be delicious, and you'll end up cooking this dish so often that you'll have to switch up the fish: in that case, you could use perch or monkfish, both worth trying!

