name:
Peanut butter
ingredients:
Peanuts: 4.1cups(600 g)- with shell
Peanut seed oil: 2.1tbsp(30 g)
Acacia honey: 0.2oz(5 g)
Brown sugar: 0.1tbsp(2.5 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 15
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare peanut butter, start by shelling the peanuts by applying slight pressure to the shell to open them and extract the nuts . Then carefully remove the skin covering the peanuts .
When finished, you will have about 1.1 lbs of shelled peanuts, which you can transfer onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Spread the peanuts out so that they overlap as little as possible. Roast the peanuts in a preheated static oven at 338°F for 10-15 minutes (if using a convection oven, set it to 320°F for 5-10 minutes). Once done, remove them from the oven and transfer them to a bowl to cool completely. You can do this with the help of the parchment paper used for roasting .
When they are well cooled, place them in a food processor and add the brown sugar , then add the honey (acacia or wildflower) and the peanut oil .
Turn on the food processor and when the cream starts to form, stop the blades and add the salt (you can skip adding salt if you prefer unsalted butter). Continue blending until you get a smooth and homogeneous mixture . If you want to make the peanut butter even creamier, you can add a little more peanut oil. Once ready, you can store it in an airtight jar in the refrigerator . Otherwise, you can enjoy your peanut butter immediately spread on bread or toast!
You can store peanut butter in an airtight glass jar for up to 2 weeks in the refrigerator. Freezing is not recommended.
Peanut butter is an essential snack in American households. It even has a dedicated website for cream lovers, titled "Peanut butter lovers," where you can post recipes, get information on ingredients and nutritional values, and learn all about the famous American peanuts and the production of butter. It seems that peanut butter dates back to the late 19th century, created by a pharmacist in Saint Louis, Missouri, as a protein substitute for meat, which was too expensive for less affluent families.
For a perfect roast, the main ingredient is patience: it is better to have a long time and a low temperature rather than a short time and high temperature. After all, we want to avoid that dreaded burnt aftertaste, right?

