name:
Viennoise au chocolat
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 4.3cups(600 g)
Whole milk: 1 ¾cup(400 ml)
Dark chocolate chips: 1cup(200 g)
Butter: 0.7cup(150 g)
Sugar: 4 ½tbsp(60 g)
Brewer's yeast: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus 2 hours of rising

instructions:
To make the chocolate viennoise, start by dissolving the salt in 200 ml of warm milk , in the remaining milk dissolve the dry yeast (alternatively you can use 0.4 oz of fresh yeast) and set aside. Meanwhile, sift the flour into a stand mixer bowl and
add the granulated sugar . Start kneading using the paddle attachment and slowly add the milk with the yeast , turn on the stand mixer to combine the mixture, then add the milk in which you dissolved the salt .
When the ingredients are well combined , replace the paddle with the dough hook and add the softened butter in pieces, one cube at a time . Once all the butter is added, knead for another 20 minutes until the dough detaches from the sides and becomes very elastic and smooth .
Form a dough ball , place the dough ball inside a bowl, cover with plastic wrap and let it rise in the turned-off oven with the light on for an hour or until the dough has doubled in volume .
After this time, divide it into 6 pieces of about 8 oz each , flatten the dough balls slightly with your hands and fill them with chocolate chips . Fold the dough sheet
and roll it as if forming a baguette , place the viennoise on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and let them rise for about 1.5 hours again in the turned-off oven with the light on. After this time, beat the egg yolk with two tablespoons of cream (or milk) and brush the surface of the viennoise with this mixture, then make crosswise cuts on the surface of the viennoise and bake in a preheated static oven at 195°F for about 20 minutes or until they are golden on the surface (if using a convection oven, bake at 185°F for 10-15 minutes). Your chocolate viennoise are ready, slice them and enjoy them for breakfast with a good cup of coffee!
It is recommended to store the chocolate viennoise under a glass dome and consume it within the day. You can freeze the viennoise after baking.
Since we're in the world of sweet delicacies, know that the viennoise is also enjoyed "plain," meaning without chocolate chips, perhaps accompanied by some jam, or filled with candied grapes. Which version do you prefer?

