name:
Charlotte cake with English trifle
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Potato starch: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Egg whites: 1cup(250 g)- (about 7)
Egg yolks: 0.9cup(200 g)- (about 10-11)
Sugar: 0.875cup(175 g)
Honey: 3tbsp(60 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Whole milk: 3cups(750 g)
Sugar: 1 ⅛cup(225 g)
Egg yolks: 5.3oz(150 g)- (about 8-9)
Dark chocolate 55%: 2.6oz(75 g)- (to chop coarsely)
Cornstarch: 5tbsp(40 g)
Rice starch: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Vanilla bean: 1
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Fine salt: 1pinch
Water: 0.7cup(175 g)
Sugar: 5 ½tbsp(70 g)
Alchermes: 1oz(25 g)
Dark chocolate 55%: 5.3oz(150 g)- curls
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time in the fridge for the creams (3 h) and the cake (at least 2-3 h)

instructions:
To prepare the charlotte cake with English trifle, start with the custard: pour the milk into a saucepan and flavor it with a pinch of salt , cinnamon , and lemon zest .
Also add the vanilla bean split in half lengthwise and bring to just below boiling. Meanwhile, place the egg yolks in a bowl with the sugar and mix well with a whisk. Once you have a creamy mixture, add the sifted corn starch and rice starch .
Mix with the whisk to incorporate the powders evenly . At this point, the milk will have come to a boil, so pour it into the bowl, filtering the liquid through a sieve , and mix everything with the whisk .
Put the mixture back into the saucepan and let it thicken over low heat, stirring continuously . When the custard is ready, transfer two-thirds of it to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap touching the surface , and let it cool in the refrigerator for 3 hours.
Pour the remaining custard into another bowl, add the coarsely chopped chocolate , and mix with the whisk to melt it evenly . Cover with plastic wrap touching the surface and let it cool in the refrigerator for the same amount of time.
In the meantime, prepare the soak: pour the water into a saucepan , add the sugar , and bring to a boil, stirring with a whisk .
When the sugar has dissolved, turn off the heat and let it cool slightly, then add the alchermes . Stir and let it cool at room temperature . Move on to the sponge fingers: pour the egg whites and sugar into a bowl and beat them until stiff peaks form (you can use a stand mixer or electric beaters) .
In another bowl, combine the egg yolks with the honey and whisk them by hand. Add the egg yolk mixture to the stiff egg whites and gently fold them in, mixing from the bottom up with a spatula .
Finally, sift the flour and cornstarch into the bowl and mix again to combine, being careful not to deflate the mixture . Transfer the batter into a piping bag with a plain 1 cm (0.4 inch) nozzle. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and form about 20 sticks 8 cm (3 inches) long and 1.5-2 cm (0.6-0.8 inch) wide .
Dust the sponge fingers with plenty of powdered sugar and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 9-10 minutes . Remove from the oven and set aside .
Use the remaining batter to form 3 disks with a diameter of 21 cm (8.3 inches), about 1 cm (0.4 inch) thick . Dust the disks with powdered sugar , then bake one tray at a time, still at 392°F, for 10-12 minutes. Remove from the oven and set aside .
You're ready to assemble the cake: take a ring (or mold) with a diameter of 21 cm (8.3 inches) and use it to cut the sponge disks to size . Grease and line the inside of the ring with parchment paper, place it on a serving plate, and lay the first disk at the base , then brush it with the soak .
Retrieve the custards from the refrigerator and soften them by mixing with the whisk, then transfer them into 2 piping bags without nozzles. Distribute half of the classic custard on the first disk , then cover with the second disk and brush with the soak. Fill the second layer with all the chocolate custard .
Finally, cover with the third disk , brush again with the soak, and add the remaining classic custard, leveling the surface well . Refrigerate the cake and let it set for at least 2-3 hours. Once this time has passed, create dark chocolate curls using a vegetable peeler .
Decorate the surface of the cake with the chocolate curls , then dust with unsweetened cocoa powder . Gently remove the ring and parchment paper from the sides .
Place the sponge fingers vertically along the entire edge of the cake, pressing lightly to adhere them , then wrap everything with a ribbon . Your charlotte cake with English trifle is ready to be served !
The charlotte cake with English trifle can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, covered with a dome.
You can prepare the custard in advance and store it in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, covered with plastic wrap touching the surface.
The sponge fingers and disks can be made in advance and stored in a tin box for 3-4 days.
The charlotte cake with English trifle is a scenic dessert that requires the right resting times to be made: plan ahead with the preparations and assemble it a few hours before serving, or even the night before... this way, you'll optimize your efforts and achieve the best result!

