name:
Cake with hazelnut wafer cream
ingredients:
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(130 g)
Potato starch: ⅓cup(50 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: ⅓cup(30 g)
Acacia honey: 3tsp(15 g)
Eggs: 3
Egg yolks: 8
Hazelnut paste: 1cup(250 g)
Hazelnut Wafer: 7oz(200 g)
Butter: 1cup(250 g)
Egg whites: ½cup(100 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Water: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 ml)- warm
Wafer: 3.5oz(100 g)- covered in milk chocolate
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.67cup(150 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the cake with hazelnut wafer cream, start with the chocolate sponge base (you can also check the recipe Cocoa sponge cake ): in the bowl of a stand mixer, pour the whole eggs and the 8 yolks (set aside 100 g of egg whites that you will use later), add the sugar and the honey (acacia or wildflower) . Then turn on the mixer . If you don't have a stand mixer, you can use an electric whisk.
Beat until you get a fluffy and homogeneous mixture ; it will take at least 15-20 minutes for the mixture to incorporate enough air to make the sponge cake rise during baking. At this point, stop the mixer; sift the flour, cornstarch (or cornflour), and cocoa together in a bowl , then add the powders to the cream, stirring gently with a spatula from bottom to top to mix well without deflating the mixture .
Now you can line a pan with parchment paper; you can use a 9.5-inch diameter pan (preferably a springform) or alternatively, butter and flour it. Gently pour the batter into the cake pan and smooth it out to even the surface . Place the sponge cake to bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 45 minutes (if using a convection oven, 320°F for 35-40 minutes). While the sponge cake is baking, start on the hazelnut cream: in the bowl of the stand mixer, combine the softened butter and hazelnut paste .
Whip the ingredients together until you get a smooth and homogeneous cream that you will set aside, out of the fridge but in a cool place, while you continue with the preparation. Then, dedicate yourself to preparing the Italian Meringue which will be enriched with the hazelnut cream: in a saucepan, pour the water and add 75 g of sugar . Turn on the low heat and stir occasionally to dissolve the sugar.
Check the syrup's temperature with a food thermometer: it should not exceed 250°F. When it reaches 241°F , you can start whisking the egg whites. Pour them into the bowl of a stand mixer and whip them by adding the remaining 25 g of sugar .
When the syrup reaches 250°F, remove it from the heat and, continuing to whip the egg whites, add the hot syrup in a thin stream ; you need to whip the egg whites with the syrup until the mixture is completely cool, to obtain a soft meringue .
When the meringue is well cooled, stop the mixer and add the hazelnut cream , mixing the two compounds gently from bottom to top with a spatula . Then, in a food processor, pour the hazelnut wafers .
Run the processor and finely chop the wafers then add them to the hazelnut cream you obtained, mix, and set aside in a cool place .
After 45 minutes, you can take the chocolate sponge cake out of the oven . Let it cool completely, then remove it from the pan and place it on a cutting board to cut three disks, each 0.4 inches thick, using a thin-bladed knife. For this operation, you can also consult the Cooking School: How to cut Sponge Cake . Then proceed by cutting the first disk and then move on to divide the remaining sponge cake .
Now that you've cut two more disks , you're ready to assemble the cake: place the base of the sponge cake on a cake stand or serving plate. In a saucepan, heat the milk that will be used for soaking, and when it is hot, brush it over the entire surface of the sponge cake, using a pastry brush . Then pour part of the cream on the base and spread it evenly using a spatula .
Cover with another sponge cake disk and brush it with the soaking; proceed with another layer of cream and finally place the last sponge cake disk , brushing it as well with the soaking. Leave the cake to cool for a moment.
Now move on to preparing the ganache cream to decorate the cake. In a saucepan, pour the fresh liquid cream and add the softened butter . Stir with a wooden spoon and cook over very low heat until almost boiling. When the cream with butter is near boiling, add the dark chocolate . Continue stirring to melt the chocolate over low heat . Then remove the mixture from the heat and let it cool.
When the ganache cream kept at room temperature has reached a fluid consistency, you can start coating the cake; pour the ganache in the center of the cake and spread it on the surface of the cake and around it . Now you can start decorating with chocolate-covered wafers, placing them along the entire circumference of the cake . Besides enhancing the appearance, the wafers placed on the outside will be helpful for easier portioning of your cake.
When you have finished to complete the decoration, you can make ganache cream puffs using a piping bag with a star nozzle and serve your cake with hazelnut wafer cream !
You can store the cake with hazelnut wafer cream in the refrigerator, closed in an airtight container for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Want to keep the crunchiness and vary the flavor? Everything is possible! For example, by adding pistachio paste to the cream instead of hazelnut paste.

