name:
Cupcakes with double chocolate cream
ingredients:
Wafer: 6- covered with dark chocolate
Wafer: 6- covered with white chocolate
Dark chocolate: 4.5oz(125 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(125 ml)
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)
White chocolate: 4.4oz(125 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(125 ml)
Condensed milk: 0.1cup(30 g)
Type 00 flour: 1tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the cupcakes with double chocolate cream, start with preparing the chocolate ganache; click Ganache cream for the full recipe. Grate the dark chocolate or chop it into shavings with a knife. Pour the cream into a large pan, add the butter , and bring almost to a boil over low heat; when the cream is just about to boil, remove the pan from the heat and add the grated dark chocolate, stirring with a whisk
until completely melted , transfer the mixture to a bowl , cover with plastic wrap , and let cool in the refrigerator.
Once the cream is very cold, use an electric mixer to whip the mixture until it becomes creamy and thick (this will take at least 10 minutes). Now that your ganache cream is ready, fill a piping bag with a star nozzle and garnish the surface of the white chocolate cupcakes with a dollop of cream .
Now focus on the light cream, click here to consult the White chocolate pastry cream recipe: chop the white chocolate into shavings with a knife and set aside, pour the condensed milk into a bowl and add the sifted flour . Warm the milk in a saucepan over low heat, then gradually add it to the flour and condensed milk mixture, stirring with a whisk to prevent lumps .
Transfer the mixture to a saucepan and thicken over low heat, stirring continuously with the whisk . Finally, add the chopped white chocolate and continue cooking until completely melted. The white chocolate pastry cream will be ready when it is well thickened, which will take about 15-20 minutes: transfer it to a wide and shallow container ,
cover it with cling film and, once at room temperature, place it in the refrigerator to cool. Take the cold cream and pour it into a piping bag with a star nozzle , garnish the surface of the dark chocolate cupcakes as you did before. Your cupcakes with double chocolate cream are ready, garnish them with chocolate shavings and enjoy!
You can store the cupcakes with double chocolate cream in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in airtight containers. Freezing is not recommended.
We made a pastry cream without eggs, but if you prefer, you can prepare the recipe with eggs, which you can find in the dedicated White chocolate pastry cream recipe.

