name:
Baked Cherry Tomatoes Stuffed with Bulgur
ingredients:
Bulgur: 2.5oz(70 g)
Water: ¾cup(175 ml)
Fine salt: ½tsp
Cherry tomatoes: 2.67cups(400 g)
Carrots: 1.5oz(40 g)
Baby Zucchini (summer squash): 1oz(30 g)
Peas: 0.1cup(30 g)
Pine nuts: 1tbsp(10 g)- toasted
Fresh scallion: 1
Emmentaler cheese: to taste- to grate
Fresh ginger: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the baked cherry tomatoes stuffed with bulgur, start by washing and thoroughly drying the cherry tomatoes. Place them on a cutting board and cut off the top with a knife, setting it aside . Scoop out the tomatoes with a spoon to remove the seeds and let them drain upside down on a rack .
Meanwhile, prepare the filling: peel a carrot, place it on a cutting board, cut it into sticks, and then dice them . Rinse a zucchini well under water and trim it. Then cut it into sticks and dice . Now shell the fresh peas into a bowl, discarding the pods ; you should obtain 30 g (1 oz) of shelled peas.
Then take a fresh spring onion, remove the stem and base, and chop it . Heat the oil in a large non-stick skillet and let the spring onion soften over low heat . Then add the finely chopped carrots .
Add the shelled peas and cook over low heat for about 20 minutes. In the last 5 minutes of cooking, add the diced zucchini , salt, and pepper, and finish cooking. Once cooking is complete, add the freshly grated ginger .
At this point, cook the bulgur: pour the water into a saucepan, add half a teaspoon of salt, and bring to a boil, then add the bulgur and cook for 7 minutes or consult the cooking times indicated on the package. Once cooked, when the bulgur has absorbed the cooking water and swelled, cover for 5 minutes . After this time, add it to the vegetables and, if necessary, adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper .
Add the toasted pine nuts to the bulgur with the vegetables and stir to combine everything. Now take a baking dish or tray, drizzle with a little oil , and place the hollowed-out cherry tomatoes , lightly salting them.
Then fill them with the bulgur and vegetable mixture . Grate the desired amount of Emmental and sprinkle it over the stuffed tomatoes .
Take the tops of the cherry tomatoes that you set aside and place them on top of the stuffed tomatoes, closing them . Once closed, bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F (180°C) for 20 minutes, if using a convection oven, bake at 320°F (160°C) for 10 minutes . When they are golden and slightly roasted , remove from the oven, let them cool slightly, and serve!
Store the baked cherry tomatoes stuffed with bulgur in the fridge well covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for up to 2 days and heat them before serving. You can freeze them stuffed, either cooked or raw, and bake them when needed, directly from the freezer.
Never heard of bulgur? It's worth trying! Supermarkets usually carry it, otherwise, you can try at organic grocery stores or ethnic food shops. If you can't find it, go for the classic couscous. 
For an even more flavorful appetizer, sauté the vegetables with a couple of anchovy fillets, or place a cube of provolone or scamorza in each tomato: once the treasure is opened, a stringy surprise will appear!

