name:
Risotto with zucchini pesto and goat cheese
ingredients:
Rice: 1.67cups(320 g)- for risottos
Shallot: 1- small
Dry white wine: 1.4oz(40 g)
Vegetable broth: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Basil: 1cup(20 g)
Peeled almonds: 0.1cup(10 g)
Pine nuts: 1tbsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 7tbsp(100 g)
Goat: 2.8oz(80 g)- cold
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To make the risotto with zucchini pesto and goat cheese, first prepare the Vegetable broth and keep it warm for the rice cooking. Focus on the zucchini pesto: wash and trim the zucchini, then roughly slice them into rounds . In a blender, add the almonds and pine nuts .
Add the zucchini as well and half of the oil , then blend to create a cream .
At this point, add the basil leaves and the remaining oil , then blend again until you obtain a homogeneous mixture . Set aside the pesto and move on to cooking the risotto.
Clean and finely chop the shallot , then brown it in a large pan with a little oil ; you can add a bit of broth to help you. Once wilted, add the rice and toast it for a few minutes, stirring with a wooden spoon.
When the grains are hot to the touch, deglaze with the white wine and let the alcohol evaporate completely. Add a ladle of hot broth and cook the rice by adding the broth little by little as it is absorbed; it will take about 10 minutes .
Once cooked, turn off the heat and add the zucchini pesto , then rinse the container with a ladle of broth and pour it into the pan . Finally, blend in the goat cheese .
Mix well to combine everything , then season with salt and pepper. Garnish with a few basil leaves and serve your risotto with zucchini pesto and goat cheese immediately !
It is recommended to consume the risotto with zucchini pesto and goat cheese immediately. If necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
If you prefer, you can replace the goat cheese with robiola for a milder flavor, or with taleggio for a stronger taste!
If you like, you can flavor the zucchini pesto with half a clove of garlic with the inner sprout removed.

