name:
Puff Pastry with Onion Jam
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- rectangular
Red Tropea onions: 9oz(250 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Brown sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
White wine: 1 ½tbsp(25 ml)
Cognac: 0.3oz(7.5 ml)
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 9 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the puff pastries with onion jam, start with the jam: peel the Tropea red onions and slice them thinly on a cutting board . Place the onion slices in a large bowl and add the granulated sugar, brown sugar, and white (or rosé) wine . Also add the cognac, a bay leaf, and mix well to combine everything. Then cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let the mixture rest for at least 6 hours in a cool and dry place, stirring occasionally .
After this time, transfer the mixture to a saucepan and boil over very low heat for about 25-30 minutes until it thickens . After 30 minutes, your jam should be ready : take a little of it with a teaspoon and let a drop fall onto a plate : if it remains compact, then your preserve is ready. If the drop is too liquid, continue cooking for the necessary time, stirring frequently. To best prepare the Tropea onion jam and understand how and how long to store it, consult the recipe Tropea Onion Jam .
Meanwhile, take the ready-made pastry and transfer it to a floured work surface, then roll it out slightly with a rolling pin . Then cut out 3x3 inch squares with a pastry cutter .
Beat an egg and brush the surface of the squares using a brush . With the leftover dough, create strips 1/2 inch wide and 3 inches long and attach them to the 4 edges of the pastry squares .
Brush these with the egg as well and decorate them by scoring them with a toothpick. Prick the bottoms of the squares and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 15 minutes until they are nicely golden ; if using a convection oven, bake at 320°F for 10 minutes. Once baked, remove them and let them cool on a wire rack .
When they are cool, gently break the crust that has formed on the bottom of the squares with your fingertips and fill each pastry with about 1 oz of Tropea onion jam . Once all the pastries are topped, serve and enjoy !
It is recommended to consume the pastries with onion jam immediately. You can also store them in the fridge in an airtight container or well-covered with plastic wrap and then reheat them in the oven, but the pastry will lose its crispness, altering the dish's result. Freezing is not recommended.
If you want your guests to literally lose their minds and you feel ready to handle scenes of ravenous people licking their fingers, then accompany the pastries with some cheese shavings, such as Grana or Pecorino. Good luck :)

