name:
Omelette with Pesto and Tomatoes
ingredients:
Eggs: 5- medium
Cluster tomatoes: 4.25oz(120 g)
Basil: 1tuft
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Basil: 5tbsp(12.5 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.6oz(18 g)- to grate
Pecorino cheese: 0.25oz(7 g)- to grate
Pine nuts: ¼tbsp(4 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(25 ml)
Garlic: ½clove
Coarse salt: 0.3tsp(2 g)
Basil: 6leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the omelette with pesto and tomatoes, start with the Genovese pesto (if you already have homemade pesto available, you can use it in the indicated amount). For the complete procedure, you can click on the Cooking School tab found here: Genoese pesto (Pesto alla genovese) . Crush the garlic clove into a paste using a mortar and pestle (if you don't have one, you can use a blender). Then add the basil leaves together with a pinch of coarse salt. Crush the basil leaves against the walls of the mortar with the pestle, rotating the pestle from left to right and simultaneously moving the mortar in the opposite direction . When the bright green liquid is released from the leaves, add the pine nuts and continue crushing. Then gradually add the grated cheeses, continuing to crush; finally, pour in the extra virgin olive oil in a thin stream . Combine the ingredients. Now that the pesto is ready, set it aside covered with plastic wrap.
Next, prepare the tomatoes. Wash them under running water, then cut one into cubes: remove the stem and cut it in half , then scoop out the inside with a teaspoon to remove the seeds . Then cut the pulp into cubes and keep them in a small bowl.
Move on to the other tomato: remove the peduncle and cut the tomato into slices that you will set aside for decoration. Then chop the bunch of fresh basil , which you will then add to the omelette. In a bowl, crack the eggs, add salt and pepper to taste, then start beating them with a whisk .
After beating the eggs for a few seconds, incorporate the pesto you set aside and mix with the whisk to obtain a homogeneous mixture .
Then add the chopped basil and the diced tomato pulp you had set aside . Then mix everything again .
Now you can start assembling your omelette: take a 10-inch diameter cake pan and line it with parchment paper. Then place half of the tomato slices you prepared previously on the bottom . Pour the egg, pesto, and diced tomato mixture into the cake pan , leveling the mixture so it fills the pan evenly and without gaps. Then finish assembling the omelette by arranging the remaining tomato slices .
Decorate the omelette with whole basil leaves , placing them on each tomato slice to create a contrast of colors. Then bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 30-35 minutes or a convection oven at 320°F for about 25 minutes until the surface is golden (you can also cook the omelette in a non-stick pan like a regular omelette). Take the omelette with pesto and tomatoes out of the oven , let it cool slightly, and serve it warm or cold to your taste!
The omelette with pesto and tomatoes can be enjoyed freshly made, hot or warm. It can be stored for a maximum of 2 days in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap or sealed in an airtight container. If the ingredients you use are fresh, you can freeze the omelette with pesto and tomatoes in cubes, in suitable freezer bags. It can be defrosted in the refrigerator and consumed cold or heated in the oven. The pesto can be stored in the refrigerator in a sealed glass jar for 2-3 days. It can be frozen in a tightly closed glass jar.
Suggestions for delicious additions: diced bacon, or thin zucchini slices (also perfect for decoration), or whole pine nuts to add to the mixture!

