name:
Chicken in a cage
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 18oz(500 g)
Zucchini: 7oz(200 g)- (8 slices)
Smoked pancetta: 1.8oz(50 g)- (8 slices)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- rectangular
Eggs: 1
Sesame seeds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus 1 hour of resting in the fridge for the chicken

instructions:
To prepare the chicken in a cage, start with the zucchinis: make sure they are quite long and wide, this way you will cover the chicken breast more easily. Wash them carefully, trim them, and cut 8 slices about 2-3 mm thick along the length with a knife or mandoline . Heat a grill, and once hot, place the zucchini slices on it . Cook on both sides for a few minutes until they are slightly charred and softened .
Now cut and debone the chicken breast: place the whole chicken breast on a cutting board and split it in half . Remove the y-shaped bone and feel along the cut side to ensure there are no remaining cartilage pieces. Salt , pepper, and oil the chicken breasts to taste on both sides.
Massage the chicken breasts with your hands to evenly season the surface . Then wrap the chicken breasts alternating the grilled zucchini slices with slices of bacon . Face the pinker side of the bacon outward, so the chicken breasts will appear more colorful. In total, you should use about 4 slices of zucchini and 4 slices of bacon. Cover the chicken breasts on one side and then fold down the excess parts to cover the other side as well . You will need fairly long slices of zucchini and bacon; if they are shorter, cover one side first, turn the breast, and cover the other side with additional slices.
Wrap the stuffed chicken breasts with plastic wrap , tightening the wrap at the sides like a candy . This operation will help give the breasts a cylindrical shape. Then transfer them to the fridge and let them rest for 1 hour. Once wrapped in plastic wrap, you can let the chicken breasts rest overnight, so you can prepare them the evening before for the next day, giving the chicken a more regular shape. After this time, take a large pan, pour a drizzle of oil, and brown 1 peeled garlic clove with a couple of bay leaves .
Once the garlic is golden, take the chicken breasts you've been letting rest out of the fridge, remove the plastic wrap, and brown them in the pan on both sides over low heat for about 20 minutes . When cooked, let the chicken breasts cool on a rack, allowing the excess oil to drip off. In the meantime, prepare the cage: take a ready-made rectangular puff pastry roll, place it on a floured work surface, and briefly work it with the rolling pin . Then cut 1/3 lengthwise and divide the piece in half, creating 2 rectangles which will serve as the base for the cage .
Cut the rest of the puff pastry with the special lattice cutter, after dusting the roller with flour or if you don't have the tool, you can cut strips of puff pastry about half a cm wide and cross them over the chicken like a lattice pie. Then place the stuffed chicken breast on the puff pastry base, beat an egg and, using a brush, brush the edges of the base. Then gently spread the puff pastry net you created over the chicken breasts . Finally, fold the excess net edges towards the base, sealing the 'cage' well .
Place the caged chicken breasts in a rectangular baking pan lined with parchment paper and now brush the surface with the beaten egg . Sprinkle the cage with white sesame seeds and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 40 minutes. When the surface is well golden , let it cool slightly and then slice it. Your chicken in a cage is ready to be served and enjoyed even cold, perhaps accompanied by mustard or our fake mayonnaise!
You can freeze the raw chicken breast wrapped in zucchini and bacon slices for about 2 months and then defrost it in the refrigerator when needed; or you can freeze it after browning it in the pan and then finish cooking it in the oven once defrosted. Cooked chicken in a cage can be stored in an airtight container for 2 days in the refrigerator.
For the series "Picnic yes, but with class", chicken in a cage does not disappoint expectations, it is simple to prepare and the result will be wonderful, ready to astonish anyone at your table. Moreover, it is practical: excellent even served cold and perfect for outdoor consumption. With the leftover puff pastry, you can make crispy and tasty sticks to accompany the chicken. What's missing? Right, the sauce: we suggest mustard or fake mayonnaise, what do you think?

