name:
Cordon bleu di melanzane
ingredients:
Eggplant: 0.5lb(230 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 4.2oz(120 g)- sliced
Smoked provola cheese: 4.25oz(120 g)
Eggs: 2
Basil: 4leaves
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 16 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the eggplant cordon bleu, start by preparing the eggplants: wash the eggplant, trim the two ends, and cut it into slices about 1/4 inch thick and weighing about 0.9 oz. Place the slices in a colander over a bowl, salt them , and let them rest for about half an hour so that they lose their water content. For further details, consult the guide How to clean and cut eggplant. Meanwhile, also cut the smoked provolone into thin slices .
Now prepare what is needed for the breading: beat the eggs in a bowl , salt, pepper, and set aside. In 2 separate bowls, place the breadcrumbs and flour. After 30 minutes, rinse the eggplant slices under running water
and dry them well with a kitchen towel . Now everything is ready to assemble the cordon bleu: arrange the eggplant slices on a plate, fill with a slice of cooked ham (each slice of ham weighs about 1 oz), with a basil leaf
and with a slice of smoked provolone , each slice of provolone also weighs about 1 oz. Place another eggplant slice on top, creating a sort of sandwich . Now proceed with the breading: take a cordon bleu, pass it in the flour on one side
and then on the other side , then dip it in the beaten eggs and finish by passing it in the breadcrumbs .
Proceed with frying: place the seed oil in a high-sided pot, heat the oil until it reaches a temperature of about 350°F, immerse the cordon bleu one at a time using a slotted spoon , fry them until golden on both sides, it will take about 2 minutes per side , then drain them on a tray lined with paper towels . Once cooking is complete, serve the eggplant cordon bleu immediately while hot. If you prefer, you can bake the cordon bleu: place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake in a static preheated oven at 400°F for about 20 minutes (or in a fan oven at 350°F for 15 minutes), making sure to turn them halfway through cooking.
It is advisable to consume the cordon bleu as soon as they are ready and to store them in the refrigerator for up to 1 day. You can freeze the eggplant cordon bleu after cooking. When needed, put them directly in the oven from frozen.
If you don't like provolone, you have plenty of choices: from scamorza onwards, any cheese that melts well is good!

