name:
Couscous with vegetables and fish balls
ingredients:
Couscous: 1.4cups(250 g)
Water: 1cup(250 g)
Pumpkin: ¾cup(200 g)- pulp
Carrots: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Green beans: 1cup(150 g)
Baby Zucchini (summer squash): 1cup(120 g)
Fresh scallion: 2
Celery: 1rib
Lemon peel: ½- untreated
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Mint: to taste
Sea bream: 9.2oz(260 g)- fillet
Potatoes: 1- medium
Thyme: 1sprig
Breadcrumbs: ¼cup(30 g)
Parsley: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the couscous with vegetables and fish balls, start by boiling a potato. Then focus on cleaning the sea bream: for best results in this delicate operation, consult our Cooking School: How to clean the sea bream . After gutting and scaling the sea bream, remove the gills. Use a fish filleting knife to cut the head off . Continue by cutting the tail and the dorsal part of the fish along the spine: start from the top and move the blade horizontally in relation to the work surface to obtain the first fillet . Separate the two halves of the fish and continue in the same way, detaching the meat from the bone to obtain the second fillet (be careful not to remove too much pulp during this operation). Remove all any bones using a tweezers , then locate them by running a hand over the pulp, then carefully remove the skin using the knife to avoid wasting the fish meat.
Cut the sea bream pulp into pieces and transfer it to a bowl; you'll need 260 g. Once the potato is boiled, peel it and crush it directly into the bowl with a potato masher . Salt and pepper to taste, then add the thyme leaves and chopped parsley (5-6).
Knead the mixture by hand , add the breadcrumbs and work again . Then form meatballs of about 5 g each .
Put some flour in a bowl and flour the meatballs . Then transfer them to a tray and store them in the fridge until you fry them . Now prepare the vegetables for the couscous: start by thoroughly washing the celery and finely chopping it .
Wash and peel a carrot with a peeler and chop it , clean a fresh scallion and slice it . Then remove the skin and seeds from the pumpkin and cut it into cubes .
Thoroughly wash the green beans under running water, remove the ends and divide each bean into three pieces . Finally, slice the baby zucchinis into rounds after washing and drying them . At this point, take a large non-stick pan, pour a drizzle of oil and add the chopped celery and carrots .
Add the fresh scallion as well and let it brown, then add the green beans and the diced pumpkin , cook for 20 minutes over low heat and add water if necessary. Then salt and pepper again if needed and continue cooking.
Now focus on the couscous: fill a large pot with water, salt it, and add a drizzle of oil . Once it boils, pour in the couscous and let it cook for 5 minutes with a lid on. After this time, the couscous will have absorbed most of the cooking water, doubling in volume .
Transfer it to the pan where you cooked the vegetables , add the sliced baby zucchinis and let it cook for about 2 minutes. Meanwhile, cook the fish balls: pour a generous drizzle of oil into a non-stick pan and when it is very hot, fry the sea bream balls .
The cooking will be rather quick, the fish balls only need to brown. When the surface is golden, drain them with a skimmer and let them dry on a tray covered with absorbent paper, to remove excess oil . Once dry, add the fish balls to the pan with the couscous and vegetables .
Season everything by adding a few mint leaves and grating the zest of half a lemon . Mix and your couscous with vegetables and fish balls is ready to be served !
Store the couscous with vegetables and fish balls in the refrigerator well covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for up to 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Oh, how wonderful: couscous allows total freedom in seasoning, so choose the ingredients you like best – your favorite vegetables or, as fish, salmon, cod or monkfish – and go in search of the perfect combination! Then remember to tell us about it!

