name:
Ricotta and Strawberry Cups
ingredients:
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Lemon peel: 1- not processed
Egg whites: 2oz(60 g)- (about 2)
Sugar: 0.6cup(125 g)
Water: 5tsp(25 ml)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Lemon juice: to taste
Strawberries: 2cups(300 g)
Powdered sugar: 6 ¾tbsp(50 g)
Strawberries: 1.3cups(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note più 4 h per scolare la ricotta

instructions:
To prepare the ricotta and strawberry cups, start with the ricotta. Place it on a strainer to drain the excess whey. If possible, use a muslin or a light cotton cloth and lay it on the strainer . Close the muslin well and tie it with an elastic band ; let the ricotta drain for at least 4 hours in the refrigerator.
Start preparing the Italian meringue (you can also consult the procedure here: Italian Meringue ). In a small saucepan, pour the water and sugar , cook over low heat until the sugar has dissolved, stirring so it doesn't stick to the bottom. When the syrup starts to boil, immerse the thermometer so it doesn't exceed 248°F. Meanwhile, start beating the egg whites: place them in the bowl of a stand mixer, add a pinch of salt , and start working them with the beaters (if you don't have a stand mixer, you can use a bowl and an electric mixer). The egg whites should already be well-beaten when the syrup reaches 248°F.
Add a few drops of lemon to the egg whites once they've turned white, and as soon as the syrup has reached the indicated temperature, incorporate it into the egg whites in a thin stream and beat until the ingredients are combined and completely cooled. The resulting meringue should be dense, smooth, and glossy. Keep it aside, then take the ricotta that has lost its whey and sieve it with a fine-mesh strainer, helping yourself with a spatula or a spoon, and collect it in a small bowl .
Repeat the operation a second time to make the ricotta creamier. In the bowl where you've collected the ricotta, also add the egg white and syrup mixture and gently mix from top to bottom to obtain a soft and homogeneous cream. Grate directly into the bowl the zest of an untreated lemon .
Mix everything to combine the ingredients . Then transfer the cream into a piping bag with a plain nozzle . Place the piping bag in the refrigerator until it's time to assemble the cups. Now move on to preparing the strawberries. Wash them under running water and remove the green leaves. Then cut the 7 oz of strawberries into cubes , which you will set aside in a small bowl.
With the 7 oz of strawberries, make a raw coulis (for this operation you can consult the recipe for the How to prepare coulis ): place the strawberries in the mixer along with the powdered sugar and activate the blades until you get a smooth puree. Then filter the obtained puree through a fine-mesh strainer to remove any seeds . Then add a tablespoon of the obtained coulis into the bowl with the diced strawberries and mix.
Now you can assemble your dessert. For a more original presentation, you can use previously washed and completely dried jars with airtight closures (alternatively, use 3.4 oz glasses with a diameter of 3.1 inches each). Pour a tablespoon of strawberry coulis on the bottom . Take the piping bag from the refrigerator and create dollops of cream to cover the coulis base . Then continue with a layer of diced strawberries .
Then finish with another layer of ricotta cream . Garnish with a teaspoon of diced strawberries and with some fresh mint leaves if you like ! Keep in the refrigerator until it's time to serve your ricotta and strawberry cups!
The ricotta and strawberry cups can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days, covered with plastic wrap. You can freeze them and thaw them in the refrigerator before consuming.
Speaking of contrasts, why not top the cups with a layer of crumbled dry cookies, or break their soft consistency with a crumble in the center (or together with the strawberries)?

