name:
Paillard with potatoes and cumin mayonnaise
ingredients:
Veal rump: 1.1lbs(480 g)- (4 slices)
Potatoes: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Sage: 10leaves
Parsley: 4tufts
Thyme: 4sprigs
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Chives: 8sprigs
Rosemary: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Vegetable oil: 1.15cups(250 g)
Egg yolks: 2- medium, very fresh
Cumin: 3tsp(6 g)
White wine vinegar: 1tsp(5 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Lamb's lettuce: to taste- (optional)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the paillard with potatoes and cumin mayonnaise, start with the mayonnaise (you can also refer to the procedure in the Mayonnaise sheet). In a bowl, gather the egg yolks at room temperature, well separated from the egg whites, add part of the lemon juice (you can pour the entire dose now or divide it to lighten the sauce at the end of the preparation) and add the white wine vinegar . Then begin to whisk with the electric mixer , adding the seed oil in a very thin stream .
Continue to whisk in the same direction : the mixture should become increasingly smooth, thick, and light. When it has reached the ideal consistency, pour in the lemon juice while continuing to whisk ; the mixture will become lighter in color when in contact with the lemon juice . If you suddenly see lumps appearing in the mayonnaise, as if it had curdled, the mayonnaise has split. But you can fix it this way: set aside the split mayonnaise and in another container, place another yolk; blend again adding a drizzle of oil and then, still in the container, add the split mayonnaise one tablespoon at a time very slowly, and everything should return to normal.
Now that the mayonnaise is ready, add the cumin , mix , and then cover the bowl with plastic wrap to store the mayonnaise in the refrigerator until ready to use (if you prefer, you can alternatively prepare Fake mayonnaise without eggs to which you will add the cumin).
Now proceed to prepare the spices that will be used to season the potatoes. Take the sage, parsley, thyme, rosemary, bay leaf, and chives and finely chop them with a knife or a mezzaluna (11-12).
Then, wash the potatoes under running water, then peel them with a vegetable peeler or the blade of a small knife and cut them in half . Place each half on the cutting board with the cut side down and cut into half-moons about 0.4 inches thick .
In a large pan, pour in oil to cover the bottom and heat it for a few moments. Then add the cut potatoes and cook over medium heat for about 20-25 minutes, stirring often until they are well browned on all sides. Then add the previously chopped mix of aromatic herbs , stir and let it flavor for 1-2 minutes. Turn off the heat and season with salt to taste .
Then proceed to prepare the paillard. Heat a cast iron grill over high heat. Take the paillard, pound it slightly with a meat tenderizer if necessary to make the slice only a few millimeters thick, and place it on the grill to sear for a few seconds . Then turn it using a spatula because using the tines of a fork would risk letting the internal juices of the meat escape, which would result in a drier outcome. Cook for a few seconds on the other side as well . Now that all the ingredients are ready, you can assemble your second course: for example, you can arrange on a serving plate a bed of lamb's lettuce and place the paillard with the potatoes and mayonnaise that you have taken out of the fridge beside it . Serve your paillard with potatoes and cumin mayonnaise hot!
You can store the paillard with potatoes and cumin mayonnaise in the refrigerator for up to 1 day. It is recommended to consume the potatoes freshly made, but they can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for up to 1-2 days. The mayonnaise can be stored in the refrigerator in a closed jar for up to a week. Freezing is not recommended.
The term Paillard seems to be derived from the surname of a famous 19th-century French chef, owner of a Parisian restaurant popular with the intellectuals and artists of the Belle Époque. The term has gone down in gastronomic history to refer to a thinly pounded slice of beef or veal cooked for a few seconds on the grill.
Beef is welcome if you prefer it to veal, and baking the potatoes in the oven is an option if you like. As for the mayonnaise, flavor it: for example, with a teaspoon of saffron, chives, or paprika, the result will be delicious and very original.

