name:
Fregola with mussels, clams and chickpeas
ingredients:
Fregola pasta: 9oz(250 g)
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Dried chickpeas: ¾cup(150 g)
Water: 8glasses(2 l)- approximately
Celery: ½rib
Shallot: 1
Tomato purée: 1.5oz(40 g)
Parsley: 4tufts
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Coarse salt: 3tsp(15 g)
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare fregola with mussels, clams, and chickpeas, you should have rehydrated the chickpeas for at least 12 hours (or an entire night) in a bowl filled with water . Then focus on the shellfish, starting with the clams. Soak them in cold water and add coarse salt to purge them . Move the clams with your hands against each other so they release as much sand as possible, and leave them to soak for 1-2 hours. During this time, change the water and coarse salt and repeat the operation until the water in the bowl is completely clear and clean (to shorten the time, you can also rinse the clams under running water and tap them on a wooden cutting board with the cut facing down: if the clam is clean, it can be cooked; if sand comes out, the clam should be discarded).
Then move on to the mussels (you can consult the cooking school sheet: How to Clean and Open Mussels to follow the step-by-step procedure). Wash the mussels under running water, then with the back of a knife, remove all encrustations and barnacles (parasites, white or gray in color, that form on the shell) and, with a vigorous movement, manually detach the beard, or byssus, that protrudes from the shells . Always under fresh running water and using a steel wool pad (or a stiff brush), scrub the mussels vigorously to remove any impurities .
Now focus on the mince that will be used to cook the mussels and clams: finely chop the parsley bunches previously washed under running water, then also chop the garlic and fresh chili pepper . Then in a large pan, pour the mince, add a drizzle of oil , and sauté for a few seconds.
Add the mussels and clams (previously rinsed to remove the salinity of the saltwater) , wet them with 3 ladles of water , and cover them with a lid . Cook until the shells are completely open.
When the shells are open, turn off the heat and strain the shellfish liquid , to collect it in a pot you have previously filled with about 2 liters of water. Turn on the low heat under the pot and bring the broth to a boil. Meanwhile, let the shellfish cool slightly, then remove the shells and collect the fruits in a small bowl . Then proceed to clean and finely chop the shallot .
Wash and peel the half stalk of celery with a peeler or knife, then finely chop it . In a large and deep pan, pour a drizzle of oil, add the fine mince of shallot and celery , and sauté for 1 minute. Then drain the chickpeas that will be rehydrated after the hours of soaking .
Add the chickpeas to the pan with the sauté , then wet them with the broth obtained with the shellfish cooking water until they are covered . Then add the tomato puree , stir and cook everything over low heat for at least 1 hour and 40 minutes, adding broth from time to time if they tend to dry out too much.
After the indicated time, with the heat still on, take two tablespoons of chickpeas from the pan , place them on a plate and mash them with a fork to obtain a puree. Then pour the resulting puree into the pan with the rest of the cooking chickpeas and thicken. Stir and cook for a few more minutes.
Add also the fregola to the chickpeas , stir and cook over low heat gradually adding a few ladles of broth. Then also pour in the mussels and clams that you had shelled , cook for another 4-5 minutes, until the preparation has reached the consistency of a thick soup. Adjust salt and pepper to taste, then turn off the heat, and your fregola with mussels, clams, and chickpeas will be ready to be served !
Fregola with mussels, clams, and chickpeas can be stored in the refrigerator, closed in an airtight container, for up to 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
Crispy vs soft: impossible to say no! Whether you serve the fregola more liquid or drier, don't miss some slices of toasted bread, perhaps flavored with garlic and extra virgin olive oil: a splendid contrast of textures, don't miss it! As for the ingredients, if you want you can replace the chickpeas with cannellini beans, very respectful of the delicate flavor of this dish.

