name:
Fish Burger
ingredients:
Cod fillet: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Lemon peel: 1spoonful- grated
Thyme: 1spoonful
Parsley: 1spoonful- to chop
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 2
Type 00 flour: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the fish burgers, start by cleaning the cod fillets: rinse them under running water, pat them dry with a kitchen towel , and remove any bones with kitchen tweezers . Cut the fillets into pieces
and place them in the mixer , chop the cod until you obtain a smooth mixture . Transfer the mixture to a bowl and season with salt ,
pepper , chopped parsley , thyme, and grated lemon zest ,
mix everything well with a fork . Place a sheet of parchment paper on a cutting board and start creating the fish burger. Use a spoon to distribute the cod mixture inside a 2.75-inch diameter round cutter and press it with the back of the spoon so that the mixture takes the shape of the cutter.
Remove the cutter and cut the parchment paper around the burgers, making it easier to lift them without risking breaking them . Now move on to the breading: beat the eggs with salt and pepper .
Start breading the fish burgers by first passing them in flour , then in the eggs , and finally in the breadcrumbs .
Place a pot with vegetable oil on the stove and heat the oil to 320째F-340째F, use a slotted spoon to immerse the fish burgers , cook for 4 minutes per side to create a golden crust on the burger (alternatively, you can bake the fish burgers in a static oven at 350째F for 25-30 minutes or in a convection oven at 320째F for about 20 minutes). Once cooked, drain the burgers and place them on paper towels to absorb the excess oil . Your fish burgers are ready to be served hot!
Once cooked, it's best to consume the fish burgers immediately. Fish burgers can be frozen raw and breaded only if you used fresh fish.
Sole, tuna, swordfish: if you don't like cod, head to the fish counter and choose your favorite!

