name:
Stuffed Squid with Couscous
ingredients:
Couscous: ½cup(100 g)- precooked
Calamari (squid): 1.1lbs(500 g)
Carrots: 1
Zucchini: 1- small
Fresh scallion: 1- small
Red peppers: ½
Garlic: 1clove
Water: 0.375cup(100 ml)
Dry white wine: 1glass
Lime peel: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Mint: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus 5 minutes for the couscous to rest

instructions:
To prepare the stuffed squid with couscous, start by pouring the couscous into a bowl. Salt it, season with a drizzle of oil , and pour the same amount of boiling water . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rest until the couscous has swollen, doubling its volume .
In the meantime, focus on cleaning the squid. For detailed instructions on how to perform this operation, consult the Cooking School: how to clean squid, which you can find here. Carefully wash them under running water and make a small incision with a knife at the end of the mantle, enough to grab a flap of skin and pull the coating away with your hands or with the help of a knife. Then gently detach the head from the mantle , remove the cartilage pen found inside the mantle, and the innards. Take the extracted head and separate the tentacles . Then chop the tentacles and set them aside in a small bowl .
At this point, wash the vegetables carefully. Take the carrot, peel it, and after cutting it lengthwise, form small cubes . Trim the zucchini, cut it in half, and dice it . Peel the fresh scallion, trim it, and slice it . Remember that all the vegetables should be cut into small pieces, which will form part of the squid filling. Consult our Cooking School: how to cut vegetables to discover the best way to cut your vegetables.
Take the bell pepper and after trimming it and removing the hard inner part with its seeds, use only half. Divide half of the bell pepper into strips and cut these into cubes . Then peel a clove of garlic and remove its internal germ, pour 2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil into a non-stick pan, and sauté the garlic until golden . Then add the finely chopped scallion and let it brown. To avoid burning the sauté, add half a glass of water (or vegetable broth).
Add the diced carrots and bell pepper (13-14), let cook for 5 minutes, and meanwhile salt and pepper to taste. When the vegetables start to soften, add the diced zucchini .
Also add the chopped squid tentacles to the mixture and let cook for another 2 minutes. After this time, turn off the heat, add the couscous , which will have doubled in volume when soaked in water, and grate the lime zest , previously rinsed under running water.
To enrich the filling with an additional hint of fragrance, wash a sprig of fresh mint, remove the leaves, and add a few leaves . At this point, take the emptied and cleaned squid, and with the help of a teaspoon, fill them with the mixture up to two-thirds of their capacity . Finally, seal the squid with a toothpick, to prevent the filling from spilling out during cooking .
Now take a non-stick pan, heat 2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil, and place the stuffed squid , then salt and pepper to taste. Cook the squid for 5 minutes on one side and 5 on the other, and to prevent the squid from becoming rubbery, deglaze with a glass of white wine during cooking . When the cooking liquid has reduced and the wine has evaporated, you can remove the squid from the heat, and finish by seasoning them with some thyme leaves. To present them creatively, cut them in half so the colorful filling is visible, and serve them on a bed of salad !
The stuffed squid with couscous can be stored in the fridge in an airtight container or well-covered with plastic wrap for up to 2 days. If you use fresh squid, you can freeze the stuffed squid with couscous either raw or cooked.
Once cooked, rush to the table! The squid is perfect served hot or at most at room temperature, to avoid becoming tough. A tip: be generous with the filling... If you have any leftovers, serve it alongside the squid, seasoned with some young peas sautéed in shallots: it will become a dish worth licking your lips for!

