name:
Cherry Tomato Chutney
ingredients:
Cherry tomatoes: 7cups(1 kg)
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Apple cider vinegar: ¾cup(200 ml)
White onions: 1
Cloves: 2
Fine salt: 1 ¾tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the time for sanitizing the jars

instructions:
To prepare the cherry tomato chutney, start by washing and drying the cherry tomatoes well. Then place them on a cutting board and cut them in half . Then peel the white onion, cut it in half, and slice it thinly . Now take a large pot and add the halved cherry tomatoes and sliced onion .
Pour the apple cider vinegar into the mixture you are preparing, also add the brown sugar and salt .
Finally, add the cloves and cook everything over low heat for 1 hour from the first boil , until you get a thick mixture. The tomatoes should not completely disintegrate. Once cooked, remove the cloves from the mixture .
Now take care of sanitizing the jars where you want to store your cherry tomato chutney, following the Ministry of Health guidelines found at the bottom of the recipe. Carefully wash the jars under water and check that there are no cracks or chips on the surface. For jars with airtight seals, also wash the gasket and set aside . Line a large pot with a clean cloth and place the jars inside with the opening facing up, wrap other cloths around the jars to prevent them from breaking during cooking, and pour the water into the pot until it is filled . Bring to a boil and cook for another 30 minutes. Add the lids ten minutes before draining. Allow cooling, then drain them and let them dry upside down on a kitchen towel .
Transfer the still-hot cherry tomato chutney into the jars that you have sanitized, leaving at least 0.4 inches of space from the rim of the jar, close , and store in a cool, dry place, first ensuring that the vacuum has been correctly formed . If you are using jars with rubber gasket closures, when consuming the cherry tomato chutney, you can test the vacuum by pulling the tab: if pulling it produces a sharp noise, it means that the content has been preserved correctly with a vacuum. On the other hand, if pulling the tab the gasket is "soft," it means the vacuum was not created correctly and it's better not to eat the content. If you are using jars with twist-off lids, close tightly but not too tightly and let them cool. With the heat of the mixture, the vacuum will form, which will allow the product to be preserved for a long time. Once the jars have cooled, check if the vacuum has formed correctly: you can press the center of the lid, and if you do not hear the classic "click-clack," the vacuum has occurred. Once you have verified that the preservation was successful, your cherry tomato chutney is ready to be enjoyed!
The cherry tomato chutney keeps for 3 months, taking care to keep the jars in the dark in a cool, dry place, where they must remain for at least a month before consuming. This time allows checking for the formation of any mold, indicating that the sanitization of the jars and vacuum was not successful. Once opened, store the cherry tomato chutney in the fridge and consume within a week.
What’s better than chutney? Flavored chutney! For a more Mediterranean flavor, add your favorite herbs; or, for a spicy touch, add a sprinkle of chili pepper.
Also, try this tasty variant: apple saffron chutney!
The recipe for chutney was Westernized by the English, who also changed its name: the Hindi term chatni , which means "sauce," became chutney. Today it is a sauce produced industrially and widespread worldwide. Although there are countless versions of this preparation, originally chutney was made with mango or other exotic fruits. There is a simple trick to check if the chutney is well-cooked: just gently pass the back of a spoon over the surface of the mixture. The spoon should leave a trail: if this is not immediately filled with vinegar, it means that the chutney has reached the ideal cooking!
The home preparation of preserves and jams can pose health risks. In a domestic environment, it is indeed impossible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures can guarantee to prevent dangerous contamination. Therefore, it is important to meticulously follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it should always be remembered that you will never achieve the same food safety as preserves and jams produced professionally. For proper preparation of homemade preserves, we refer you to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

