name:
Vin gelée
ingredients:
Red wine: 4 ¼cups(1 l)- full-bodied
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Lemons: 1- untreated
Oranges: 1- unprocessed
Nutmeg: ½- to be grated
Cloves: 5
Cinnamon sticks: 2
Star anise: 2
Gelatin in sheets: 1tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus 3 hours of setting in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the vin gelée, start with the gelatin that will give the dessert its consistency. In a bowl, soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for 10 minutes . Then peel the citrus fruits with a peeler or a small knife, trying to remove only the outermost part of the peel, not the white part . In a large pan, pour the sugar (you can already place it on the stove but keep it off).
Then add the citrus peels you obtained . Next, add the cinnamon sticks and cloves . Add the star anise and grate half a nutmeg directly into the pan .
At this point, pour in the red wine and turn on the low heat; stir with a wooden spoon and cook for 10 minutes, bringing it to a boil. Then turn off the heat and strain the cooked wine with a fine mesh strainer to collect it in a large bowl .
Let the liquid drain well from the strainer that has retained the spices and citrus peels used in cooking ; let the mixture cool slightly . Then take the soaked gelatin sheets, squeeze them well, and pour them into the slightly cooled wine .
Stir to dissolve the gelatin . When it is completely dissolved, use a spoon to pour the mixture into the appropriate molds, each with a capacity of 70 ml , filling them almost to the brim .
Now place the molds in the fridge for at least 3 hours to set the mixture. After the required time, remove the molds from the fridge, and before unmolding, dip them one by one in a small pot with boiling water for a few moments to unmold them more easily . Then invert them onto a dessert plate and gently remove the mold . You can also choose to present the vin gelée jellies together on a larger serving platter and garnish them with lemon zest strips !
The vin gelée can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3-4 days. You can freeze it and then defrost it in the refrigerator the night before consuming.
All wines are suitable for vin gelée, as are all garnishes! For example, you could serve it with a dollop of whipped cream or a handful of fresh fruit bites!

