name:
Cavatelli with zucchini flowers, mussels, and saffron
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Semolina: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Water: 1.1cups(260 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Semolina: to taste
Zucchini flowers: 6cups(200 g)
Mussels: 4.4lbs(2 kg)
Saffron: 1bag
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sparkling water: 0.6cup(150 ml)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Baking soda: ½tsp
Burrata cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)
Dried tomatoes in oil: 4- Pachino
Peanut seed oil: 2 ⅛cups(500 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note plus 30 min for pasta resting in the fridge

instructions:
To prepare the cavatelli with zucchini flowers, mussels, and saffron, start by making the pasta: take a bowl, pour in the all-purpose flour and semolina flour . Then add a pinch of salt (optional) , water , and oil.
Start kneading vigorously with your hands. Transfer the dough onto a floured work surface and continue kneading by hand until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough , which you will wrap in plastic wrap and let rest for 30 minutes outside of the fridge. If you want more information on the preparation and storage of cavatelli, consult the Cooking School: cavatelli, which you can find Cavatelli .
While the cavatelli dough is resting, focus on the mussels: transfer them to a large bowl and wash them thoroughly under running water . With a vigorous motion, manually detach the beard, or byssus, that protrudes from the shells . Then, still under fresh running water, scrub the mussels vigorously to remove any impurities, using a steel wool pad or a stiff brush . Discover with the Cooking School: how to clean mussels, how to perform this operation best.
Then take a large non-stick skillet and heat a drizzle of oil with a peeled garlic clove. When the garlic is golden, add the cleaned mussels . Cover with a lid and cook over medium heat; after about 5 minutes, the mussels will open. At this point, turn off the heat and remove the shells with your hands , leaving only 8 with the shell, the most beautiful and large ones, for decorating the plates. Now dissolve the saffron with a tablespoon of the mussel cooking liquid and add it to the skillet , then stir until the sauce is colored. Add salt and pepper to taste, and if desired, add chopped parsley.
Prepare the ingredients that will fill the zucchini flowers to decorate the plate: place the burrata on a cutting board and slice it into small enough pieces to stuff the zucchini flower . Then, also cut the dried tomatoes in half , and if using oil-packed dried tomatoes, dry them with a paper towel before cutting. Now choose 4 large zucchini flowers to fill from the total amount. Place them on a cutting board and remove only the excrescences and the stem, keeping the lower cup to prevent the filling from leaking out. Gently spread them apart and stuff them with a slice of burrata and a halved dried tomato . Twist lightly to close them and set them aside in the fridge after placing them on a plate.
Now clean the zucchini flowers that you will incorporate into the sauce with the mussels. Wash the flowers thoroughly by gently immersing them in cold water, then drain and place them to dry on a dry cloth with which you will lightly pat them. Transfer them to a cutting board and remove the stem and excrescences . Extract the fleshy pistils inside and cut the flowers longitudinally into strips . Set them aside in the refrigerator; you will add them at the end because their cooking is quite short.
Now prepare the batter for the zucchini flowers that will decorate the plate: place the sifted flour in a bowl, add the baking soda , a pinch of salt, and the sparkling water . Stir vigorously with a whisk to prevent lumps and store the batter in the fridge covered with plastic wrap until ready to use.
After the 30 minutes of rest for the dough, take out the dough ball, transfer it to a work surface dusted with semolina flour. Take a piece of dough at a time and roll it, forming ropes about 0.4 inches in diameter . Cut the rope into many small pieces of about 0.4 inches and indent each piece by pressing it with your fingertips inward . At this stage, it is important to keep the rest of the dough covered with plastic wrap to prevent it from drying out.
Cover a tray with a tea towel, sprinkle it with semolina, and transfer the cavatelli to it . Fill a large pot with plenty of salted water, bring to a boil, and add the cavatelli. Cook for about 3-4 minutes, checking the cooking with a taste test . While the cavatelli are cooking, take the batter out of the fridge and coat the stuffed zucchini flowers .
Heat the seed oil (preferably peanut oil) in a small pot, and when it is hot, i.e., when it reaches a temperature of about 356°F, immerse the stuffed zucchini flowers . Let them fry for a few minutes, and when they are golden and crispy, drain them with a slotted spoon and let them dry on a tray covered with paper towels. After the 3-4 minutes of cooking, drain the cavatelli and add them to the sauce with the mussels, where you will continue cooking for another two minutes over high heat to concentrate the sauce and flavor the cavatelli .
At this point, add the zucchini flower strips you set aside and toss them with the sauce and cavatelli until they wilt and everything is combined . Adjust the salt and pepper if necessary. All that's left is to plate the cavatelli with zucchini flowers, mussels, and saffron and decorate the plate with a stuffed zucchini flower !
Consume the cavatelli with zucchini flowers, mussels, and saffron immediately or store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container or well-covered with plastic wrap for up to one day.
You can store fresh (not seasoned) cavatelli in the refrigerator for up to 4 days.
You can also freeze them: freeze them for about half an hour well separated on a tray and then store them together in a freezer bag. This way, they won't stick together.
You can replace the burrata with stracciatella in the fried zucchini flower filling and then cook the stuffed zucchini flowers in the oven without passing them in batter. This sauce goes very well with other types of fresh short pasta, such as orecchiette and gnocchi!
Cavatelli is a fresh pasta shape originating from Molise, which over time has become part of the gastronomic tradition of other southern regions: Apulia, Campania, Calabria, Basilicata, and Sicily. Usually, cavatelli are seasoned with pork or wild boar sauce and tomato sauce flavored with fennel and garlic, all seasoned with freshly grated cheese.
Discover also the variation of Potato Cavatelli , excellent with a simple Potato Cavatelli with Cherry Tomatoes and Ricotta !

