name:
Filet mignon with amaro sauce
ingredients:
Beef filet: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Bay leaves: 8leaves
Rosemary: 1sprig
Thyme: 1sprig
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Soy sauce: 5tbsp(75 g)
Amaro liqueur: 2.6oz(75 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 3 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the filet with amaro sauce, start by removing the fatty parts of the filet . Then cut the meat into medallions according to the instructions you find in the guide How to make meat and fish medallions : cut slices about 0.8 inches thick , obtaining 4 medallions. Cover the edge of the medallion with bay leaves to flavor the meat, pass a string around the entire perimeter of the meat slice and tie it with a very tight knot to maintain the shape during cooking.
When your medallions are ready, set them aside in the refrigerator and prepare the amaro sauce: in a saucepan, pour the soy sauce and also add the lemon-flavored amaro ; cook over moderate heat until the sauce reduces, evaporating the water in the liquids .
You will obtain a concentrated and thick sauce . Once the sauce is made, proceed with cooking the meat: heat a wide pan that can hold the medallions, heat a tablespoon of oil with garlic and herbs .
Place the medallions in the pan and cook the filets for 3 minutes per side over high heat for rare, or a few minutes longer if you prefer them medium or well-done; do not turn them continuously but let them brown completely on one side before turning (use kitchen tongs or a fork to turn the medallions) . Halfway through cooking, season the filets by adding a pinch of salt. The cooking of the filet can be more or less rare depending on personal taste, so adjust the cooking times accordingly. Once ready , serve the filet immediately with the amaro sauce, drizzling it with the sauce previously prepared.
We recommend consuming the filet with amaro sauce immediately, but if you wish, you can store it in the refrigerator for up to one day, sealed in an airtight container. It is not recommended to freeze the preparation after cooking; however, you can freeze the raw filet medallions.
You can also make the filet with amaro sauce using veal filet, and if you don't like soy sauce, you can use the same amount of balsamic vinegar.

