name:
Limoncello cupcake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Butter: ½cup(120 g)- soft
Eggs: 2- medium
Lemon peel: 1
Baking powder: 1bag
Fine salt: 1pinch
Butter: ¾cup(175 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 0.67cup(150 g)
Limoncello: 1.75oz(50 g)
Lemon peel: 2
Egg yolks: 6
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Colored sprinkles: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the limoncello cupcakes, start by sifting the flour and baking powder with a fine mesh sieve . Then, place the softened butter and sugar in a stand mixer ; turn on the beaters to mix the ingredients (if you don't have a stand mixer, you can use an electric hand mixer). Add the grated zest of one untreated lemon to the batter and continue mixing.
Add the 2 eggs, one at a time , then add a pinch of salt and finally the sifted flour with the baking powder, gradually using a spoon . Then remove the mixture from the stand mixer and mix with a spatula to combine the ingredients until you obtain a homogeneous batter .
Transfer the mixture into a piping bag . Then take a 12-muffin tray and line each mold with a paper liner. Pour the mixture into each liner , being careful not to exceed halfway , so that when baked, the cupcakes will reach the edge of the liners. Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 20 minutes (320°F for 15 minutes if using a convection oven).
Once the cupcakes are baked, remove them from the mold and let them cool . In the meantime, continue with the buttercream preparation (you can also consult the buttercream procedure Buttercream ). In a large saucepan, pour the water, then add the sugar . Now also pour in the limoncello and stir.
Turn on the low heat and also add the peels of 2 whole lemons and continue stirring . When the sugar has dissolved, let the syrup boil without further stirring and check with a thermometer that it reaches 250°F . Then turn off the heat and strain the syrup obtained with a fine mesh sieve, collecting it in a small bowl .
In a stand mixer, place the egg yolks and start the beaters (if you don't have a stand mixer, you can use a large bowl and an electric hand mixer). Then add the hot syrup in a thin stream . Let the ingredients whip until completely cool . While the mixture cools, in a small bowl, work the cold but softened butter to make it creamy. Gradually incorporate the buttercream into the yolks with the syrup, continuing to mix with the beaters .
Transfer the smooth and homogeneous cream into a small bowl . If you are not using it immediately, place it in the fridge covered with plastic wrap until you decorate the cupcakes. Then unmold the cupcakes, put the buttercream in a piping bag with a star tip, and start decorating them with a swirl of cream . You can further garnish the limoncello cupcakes with colored sprinkles or other decorations of your choice . Store the limoncello cupcakes in the refrigerator until serving time!
Limoncello cupcakes can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. They can be frozen and thawed in the refrigerator. Cupcakes can also be frozen without garnishing and thawed at room temperature the night before consumption. Buttercream can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If the buttercream appears lumpy, you can add a knob of melted butter to restore the mixture.

