name:
Limoncello Cream Roll
ingredients:
Sugar: 0.7cup(140 g)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(100 g)
Eggs: 5
Limoncello: 2tsp(10 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ½cup(350 ml)
Egg yolks: 7oz(200 g)- (about 12 egg yolks)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Butter: 0.88cup(200 g)
Limoncello: 3.5oz(100 ml)
Powdered sugar: 7tbsp(30 g)
Water: 1.3tsp(20 ml)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.7oz(20 g)
Limoncello: 1.7oz(50 ml)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Lemons: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note plus 2 hours of cooling the roll in the fridge

instructions:
To prepare the limoncello cream roll, start by making the sponge cake. Crack the eggs and separate the yolks from the whites. Then pour the yolks into the bowl of a stand mixer (if you don't have a stand mixer, use a regular bowl and then work with an electric beater) and add half of the sugar (2.5 oz) . While whipping the yolks with the sugar, add the grated lemon zest . Then incorporate the limoncello into the mixture, continuing to whip until the mixture is smooth and creamy.
Now transfer the egg whites you had set aside into the bowl of a stand mixer (or a regular bowl to then use an electric beater) and add the remaining sugar (2.5 oz) . Whip the egg whites until they form soft peaks, so they don't form lumps when you mix them with the other ingredients . Gently fold the whipped egg whites into the rest of the mixture ,
using a spatula and being careful not to deflate them. Finally, add the sifted flour , mix, and after lining a 18x14.5 inch baking sheet with parchment paper, pour in the obtained batter .
Level it with a flat, smooth spatula until you reach a thickness of 0.4 inches , and bake in a preheated static oven at 428°F for 6-7 minutes, no longer, until the surface of the cake is just golden (if using a convection oven, bake at 392°F for 3-4 minutes). Remember not to open the oven during baking, as it will retain moisture inside. Once baked, remove the sponge cake from the oven, immediately take it out of the tray, placing it with all the parchment paper on a surface, and dust it with granulated sugar to prevent sticking . Then seal it with plastic wrap, folding it under the edges . Keep the sponge cake aside at room temperature, and once it is cool, you can fill it with the cream you are going to prepare. Check out the Biscuit dough recipe to find out how to prepare and store it best.
Now prepare the cream: soak the gelatin sheets in cold water . In a saucepan, heat the water, grate the lemon zest inside , and then add the sugar .
Also add the limoncello and bring to a boil. Meanwhile, beat the egg yolks with a whisk , and when the mixture boils, remove it from the heat and pour it into the bowl with the beaten yolks .
Mix the mixture well with the whisk and then pour it back into a saucepan, where you will cook it over low heat . Let it simmer, and at the first signs of boiling, add the butter cut into cubes , then mix and continue to cook over low heat for 2-3 minutes. After this time, remove the saucepan from the heat and add the well-squeezed gelatin to the mixture .
Mix again and then pour the obtained cream into a wide, shallow container, which you will cover with plastic wrap, ensuring the wrap adheres to the cream . At this point, put the cream in the fridge (or freezer if you want to speed up the process) until it cools well. While the cream cools, prepare the soak: pour the water into a saucepan, add the limoncello , sugar , and bring to a boil. When the liquid boils, turn off the heat and set aside.
Once the cream has solidified, place it in a mixer and blend it for a few seconds until it reaches a thick and creamy consistency . Then whip the cream: pour the fresh cream into the cup of a stand mixer (or into a bowl if using an electric beater) .
Add the powdered sugar to the fresh cream and whip until the mixture is frothy. Combine the whipped cream with the cream and mix everything together .
Now take the sponge cake, which in the meantime will have cooled, and soak it with the limoncello soak you had set aside , using a brush. Then proceed to fill it: spread half of the prepared limoncello cream, making sure to leave a 0.4-inch space from the edge . Roll it up gently, detaching it from the parchment paper and trying to wrap it as tightly as possible, but being careful not to break it .
Wrap the formed roll with plastic wrap , tightening well, and let it set in the fridge for at least 2 hours. Once cold, remove the plastic wrap and place it on a serving dish. Transfer the other half of the limoncello cream into a piping bag with a star tip and decorate the roll on its entire surface . Garnish with lemon slices , and your limoncello cream roll is ready to be served!
You can store the limoncello cream roll in the refrigerator for 3-4 days in an airtight container or well-covered with plastic wrap. You can freeze the roll, preferably in slices, and thaw it in the refrigerator when needed.
You can fill the roll either with the cream used in this recipe or with a lemon buttercream (consult the Limoncello cupcake recipe). If the cream becomes too firm, process it in a mixer with blades for a few seconds!

