name:
Carrot and Limoncello Cake
ingredients:
Carrots: 1lb(450 g)
Brown sugar: 1 ¾cup(350 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 1 ⅓cup(320 ml)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 6
Limoncello: 1oz(30 ml)
Lemon peel: 2
Baking powder: 1bag
Baking soda: 2 ½tsp(15 g)
Fine salt: 2pinches
Limoncello: 2spoonfuls- hot
Water: 2spoonfuls- hot
Powdered sugar: 1.6cups(200 g)
Candied lemon: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the carrot and limoncello cake, start by sifting the flour , the baking powder , and the baking soda . Set them aside as you will incorporate them gradually during the batter preparation.
Then pour the brown sugar into the bowl of a stand mixer or a regular bowl if you use an electric mixer and add the sunflower oil . Mix until you obtain a fairly uniform mixture , then add the shelled eggs one at a time .
Take the flour, baking powder, and baking soda you sifted at the beginning and add them slowly to the mixture , also adding 2 pinches of salt. When the mixture is well combined , pour in the limoncello .
Add the grated lemon zest to the mixture , let it blend for a few seconds, then stop working with the stand mixer or electric mixer. Then grate the carrots and add them to the mixture, stirring everything with a spatula .
Now butter and flour a bundt pan with a diameter of 9 inches and a height of 3.5 inches. Pour the mixture into the pan and bake in a preheated oven at 350°F for about 70 minutes (if using a convection oven, bake at 320°F for 60 minutes). Bake until the surface is golden brown , in any case, before removing it from the oven, do the toothpick test. If the cake darkens too much on the surface during baking, cover it with a sheet of aluminum foil and continue baking. When it's ready, remove it from the oven and gently unmold it. You can help yourself with a knife, which you will pass along the edges of the pan. Let it cool on a rack .
In the meantime, prepare the glaze: heat water and limoncello in the microwave for about a minute at maximum power or in a saucepan. In a bowl, pour the sifted powdered sugar, add the warm water and limoncello (16-17), and mix well with a spoon to dissolve the lumps .
Once the cake has cooled, keep it on the rack and pour the glaze over it using a spoon . Then decorate the surface with candied lemon peels and your carrot and limoncello cake is ready to be served and enjoyed !
You can store the carrot and limoncello cake under a glass dome for 3-4 days. You can freeze the cake without the glaze and thaw it at room temperature when needed.
To flavor your carrot and limoncello cake, you can substitute 1.75 oz of all-purpose flour with 1.75 oz of hazelnut or almond flour, then decorate it with marzipan carrots.

