name:
Bonet with Lemon
ingredients:
Whole milk: 3cups(700 g)
Lemon juice: 3
Lemon peel: 1- untreated
Limoncello: 2.5oz(70 g)
Amaretti cookies: 3.5oz(100 g)
Egg yolks: 10
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Cornstarch: ½tbsp(50 g)
Water: to taste- hot
Lemons: 1
Mint: to taste- (optional)
Sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Amaretti cookies: 2

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note plus 1 hour of rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the lemon bonet, start with the amaretti: put them in a blender and chop them (you can also finely crumble them by hand), then add the sifted cornstarch to the powder obtained and set the mixture aside. Place the eggs in a stand mixer, or if you don't have one, in a large bowl, turn on the whisks, and gradually add the sugar .
Beat the eggs with the sugar until you get a light and homogeneous cream. Then incorporate the limoncello and the grated zest of an untreated lemon .
With the whisk still running, pour in the filtered lemon juice , the amaretto and cornstarch powder you set aside , and add the room temperature milk gradually ; continue mixing the ingredients to combine them.
Now, take a rectangular loaf pan measuring 12.5x4.7 inches and 2.4 inches deep (or individual pudding molds), place it in a large and deep baking dish. Then pour the mixture into the mold using a ladle . For the bain-marie cooking, pour hot water into the baking dish up to 2/3 of the mold's height . Cook the lemon bonet in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 45-50 minutes (or fan-forced oven at 320°F for 40-45 minutes). The bonet will be cooked when you see it start to detach from the sides of the mold and the surface appears slightly golden; gently remove it from the oven and the bain-marie mold; let it cool completely at room temperature . When cool, place it in the fridge for about 1 hour.
In the meantime, prepare the garnish: wash the lemon and cut into thin slices . Transfer the slices to a pan, add the sugar, and cook for a few minutes to caramelize the lemon slices (14-15). Then turn off the heat and let cool.
Then take the bonet out of the fridge, fill a container with boiling water, and immerse the mold with the bonet for a few seconds in the boiling water to make it easier to extract the dessert. You can use the tip of a knife to delicately detach the dessert from the sides of the mold. Unmold the dessert by turning it over on a serving plate . Now you can garnish your lemon bonet: arrange the caramelized or fresh lemon slices on the surface and, if you like, some strips of zest. Add whole or crumbled amaretti to your liking and the caramelized lemon slices around the dessert , if you like, also add some mint leaves. Your bonet is ready to be served !
The lemon bonet can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. You can freeze the lemon bonet, and before consuming it, it should be thawed in the refrigerator one day in advance.
For a more lemony and less alcoholic bonet, you can replace the limoncello with the same amount of lemon juice; however, if you prefer a stronger aroma, nothing prevents you from using a few teaspoons of rum! Speaking of substituting liquids, the bonet works great with rice milk or soy milk too.

