name:
Steamed cod with green olives and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Cod: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1cup(250 g)
Green olives: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Lemon peel: 1- untreated
Thyme: 8sprigs
Ground black pepper: 2 ¼tsp(5 g)
White pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 6 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare steamed cod with green olives and cherry tomatoes, start by cleaning the fish: for this recipe, you will need 3 cods weighing about 7 oz each. Rinse the cod under running water and scrub with a descaler (you can alternatively use the blade of a knife). Place it on a cutting board and cut into the belly with a knife or a pair of scissors, starting from the tail end, making a not too deep cut up to the head to extract the entrails (2-3).
Then rinse the inside of the fish well under running water to remove any residue and blood , then place it again on a cutting board and trim the dorsal fins with scissors , cut the lateral fins and those at the end of the belly.
Now cut the head just below the gills and the tail to remove these parts (7-8), then cut the body of the cod into pieces and place them on a plate .
Prepare the steamer for steaming: fill it halfway with water, and when it's heated, add the thyme sprigs, the untreated lemon zest, and peppercorns (10-11). Once the water boils, place the steamer basket on top, and when it's well heated, add the cod pieces inside (if you don't have a steamer, you can use a large pot and an aluminum colander).
Also add the previously washed cherry tomatoes and green olives into the basket. Season to taste with salt and ground white pepper .
Cover the cod pieces with a lid to favor steam cooking and let cook for about 5-6 minutes or until the flesh becomes white and tender (16-17). Then turn off the heat and carefully remove the basket to plate your cod with cherry tomatoes and green olives and serve hot !
REMEMBER: You can also make this recipe with the electric steamer
Once cooked, steamed cod can be stored in the fridge covered with plastic wrap for up to 1 day. It can be frozen only if fresh cod has been used, and before consuming, it should be thawed in the refrigerator the night before.
Classy tip: flavor the water with garlic, parsley, or mint, the classic trick that is not seen but felt! For the rest, you should know that you can cook the cod in fillets (removing the backbone) and that green olives are interchangeable with other types, for example, black or Gaeta olives.

