name:
Cold turkey roast
ingredients:
Turkey breast: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- a single slice
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Yellow onions: 1
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Smoked provola cheese: 5.25oz(150 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 3.5oz(100 g)- thin slices
Spinach: 1.67cups(50 g)
Carrots: 3
Zucchini: 3

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the cold turkey roast, start by washing and chopping the vegetables for the base. Peel the celery and chop it coarsely , wash the carrots, peel them and cut them into slices about 3/4 inch thick . Finally, clean and slice the onion and set everything aside.
Now take care of the vegetables for the stuffing: wash the zucchinis carefully, dry them, and cut them into slices half a centimeter thick along the length . Now rinse and clean the carrots, peel them with a peeler and cut them lengthwise into slices half a centimeter thick .
Then heat a grill, and once hot, grill the thin slices of zucchini and carrot on both sides until they are slightly charred but soft. Then proceed to assemble the roast: place the turkey slice on a cutting board and season it with salt, pepper to taste, and thyme leaves .
Then form a layer with the grilled zucchini slices , continue with the grilled carrot slices and the fresh spinach leaves that you have previously rinsed under running water .
Add the slices of cooked ham and after slicing the smoked provola cheese thinly, place them on the other layers . Then start rolling the turkey slice carefully, pressing well with your hands to ensure the stuffing doesn't come out .
Now take some kitchen twine and tie the roast you have formed: pass the twine first under and then over the meat, lengthwise, securing the ends of the string tightly at the end and leaving a slightly longer piece of twine . Use the longer twine and proceed by going back along the opposite side and then form a knot at the end to create the base for your tying. To form the cage, take the twine, create a loop holding the base of it with your fingers , insert your hand into the loop and twist the string a couple of times, then pass the meat through the obtained loop. Secure the base of the loop by tightening the ring created around the meat and pulling the twine slightly upwards to tighten the knot and repeat this operation along the entire length of the meat . To perform this operation best, consult our Cooking School: How to tie a roast .
Then take a large pot, pour a drizzle of oil along with a small bunch of thyme and rosemary, and add the tied roast . Sear it on both sides, then pour in the vegetable broth and add the vegetables for the base that you had set aside . To discover how to prepare and store vegetable broth, read our Cooking School: Vegetable broth .
Cover the pot with a lid and let it cook for 1 hour and 30 minutes, turning the roast occasionally, until the base vegetables are stewed and softened and the roast is firm and well browned . When the roast is cooked, transfer it to a plate to cool, pour the vegetables along with the cooking base into a blender .
Blend until you get a smooth mixture and if the sauce is still liquid, transfer it to a pan and cook over low heat so that it thickens. Now place the cooled roast on a cutting board and slice it into pieces about 1/4 inch thick . Serve the cold turkey roast either hot or cold with the accompanying sauce!
The cold turkey roast can be stored in the fridge in an airtight container or well covered with plastic wrap for up to 3 days. It can be frozen if fresh, non-defrosted meat was used. Thaw in the refrigerator one day before consuming.
A highly aromatic stuffing? Why not, by mixing with the vegetables (by the way: feel free to choose those you prefer, for example, eggplants, cooked or caramelized onions, peppers, Swiss chard) a handful of aromatic herbs. It's essential not to forget to serve the roast with a sauce, which will soften the meat (which can also be chicken or veal, the important thing is that it's a single slice). Our suggestions are basil pesto or egg-free mayonnaise, what are yours?

