name:
Eggplant gnocchi with cherry tomatoes and basil
ingredients:
Eggplant: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Cherry tomatoes: 2.3cups(350 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ⅓cups(300 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3spoonfuls- grated
Garlic: 2cloves
Basil: 5leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus 15 minutes of resting time for the gnocchi

instructions:
To prepare eggplant gnocchi with cherry tomatoes and basil, start by washing the eggplants under cold running water. Then dry them thoroughly with a kitchen cloth and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Bake at 392°F for 40-45 minutes. Once the eggplants are ready, remove them from the oven and let them cool slightly . Then remove the stem and ends and gently peel them using a small knife to remove the outer skin .
Now cut the pulp into thin slices and then into small cubes , then chop them further with a knife or using a mezzaluna . Place the eggplant pulp in a colander and use a fork to press and remove all the liquid .
In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil and a clove of garlic; as soon as the garlic is golden, add the chopped eggplant pulp and sauté for about 10 minutes over high heat, stirring occasionally . When the eggplants are ready, transfer them to a bowl and set them aside to cool slightly . Set aside the pan you used to sauté the eggplants.
When the eggplant pulp in the bowl is slightly cooled, add the basil leaves torn by hand, the egg , a pinch of salt, a pinch of pepper, and incorporate the sifted flour and finally 3 tablespoons of grated cheese . Mix the mixture with a fork until you get a compact and homogeneous dough.
When the ingredients are combined, form a ball with the mixture obtained and transfer it to a floured work surface . Then, start making the gnocchi: roll the dough with your hands to create ropes about 1 inch thick ; cut your gnocchi about 1 inch on each side. To give the gnocchi a more defined shape, create the characteristic ridges by sliding each gnocchi on a wooden gnocchi board or passing them over the prongs of a fork.
As you make them, place them on the same lightly floured surface . Finish making the gnocchi with the remaining dough and transfer them to a floured tray to rest for 15 minutes, making it easier to transfer to the pot for cooking. Meanwhile, wash the cherry tomatoes under running water and cut them into wedges .
In the same pan where you cooked the eggplants, heat a drizzle of oil and brown the other clove of garlic, which you'll remove with kitchen tongs or a fork once golden. Add the cherry tomatoes and cook them on high heat for 6 minutes, seasoning them with salt, pepper, and 2-3 basil leaves . Mix and turn off the heat. Meanwhile, take a large pot with high edges, fill it ¾ with water, salt to taste, and bring to a boil. Then gently immerse the gnocchi and cook them for a few minutes. They will be ready when they start to float to the surface .
Use a slotted spoon to drain them and transfer them directly into the pan with the cherry tomatoes . Turn on low heat, mix everything for a few seconds, turn off and serve your eggplant gnocchi with cherry tomatoes and basil with a few fresh basil leaves !
Eggplant gnocchi can be frozen raw. Arrange them on a tray lined with parchment paper to freeze them individually. Once frozen, transfer them to appropriate freezer bags. Cooked and seasoned gnocchi can be stored in the fridge for up to 1-2 days.
Flour or potato: this is the dilemma when it comes to eggplant gnocchi. Tip: try replacing the flour with a boiled potato, taste both versions, and then choose the one you prefer for next time.
For a more intense flavor, you could season the eggplant gnocchi with Cherry Tomatoes Confit !
For cheese lovers: if you need to sprinkle, let it be salted ricotta!

