name:
Cherries in syrup with Port and cinnamon
ingredients:
Cherries: 18oz(500 g)
Port wine: 6.8oz(200 ml)
Cinnamon sticks: 3- small
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 3 pieces
Cost: Average
Note più il tempo della sanificazione dei barattoli

instructions:
To prepare the cherries in syrup with Port and cinnamon, first, you need to get glass jars for preservation and proceed with their sanitization as indicated in the guidelines from the Ministry of Health provided at the end of the recipe. Start by carefully washing the jars under running water . Line a large pot with high sides with a clean dish towel and place the jars inside the pot. Then wrap one or more towels around the jars to prevent them from bumping . Fill the pot with water until the jars are covered. Bring to a boil, then lower the heat and leave the jars in the pot for another 30 minutes. Ten minutes before draining the jars, also immerse the lids to sterilize them. After the necessary time has passed, turn off the heat and let it cool. When the water has reached room temperature, take the jars out of the pot and let them drain on a cloth .
In a small pot, place the water, sugar, and Port, and heat over moderate heat to dissolve the sugar : it will take about 5 minutes. Once the sugar has dissolved, turn off the heat and let the syrup cool. Meanwhile, take care of the cherries, choose firm and ripe ones, wash them well without removing the stems, drain them by placing them in a colander , and then dry them well with a dish towel. Place a cinnamon stick in each jar .
Also jar the cherries , leaving about 0.75 inches of space from the rim and trying to arrange them in such a way as to leave as few empty spaces as possible, without crushing them too much. Now add the Port syrup making sure to completely cover the cherries but leaving 0.5 inches of space from the rim . With the indicated amounts, you will obtain three jars with a capacity of 8.5 ounces.
Seal the jars well : if using jars with screw caps, screw the caps on well, but without overtightening . At this point, you can proceed to boiling: i.e., pasteurization, following the instructions provided in the guidelines from the Ministry of Health cited at the end of the recipe. If using jars with screw caps, once the jars have cooled, check if the vacuum was created correctly: you can press the center of the cap, and if you don't hear the typical "click-clack," the vacuum was created . If using jars with rubber seal closures, when consuming the cherries, you can check the vacuum by pulling the appropriate tab: if it makes a sharp noise when pulled, it means the contents have been preserved with the correct vacuum. Conversely, if the tab feels "soft" when pulled, it means the vacuum was not created correctly, and it's better not to consume the contents.
Cherries in syrup with Port and cinnamon can be stored for 3 months, provided the vacuum has been created correctly and taking care to keep the jars in a dark, cool, and dry place. To store them, get airtight jars that are not too large; the ideal is an 8.5-ounce jar because once you open one, you should consume the cherries within 3-4 days even if stored in the refrigerator. It is recommended to wait at least a month before consuming them.
In this case, alcohol is definitely indispensable: but, if you don't like Port, you can replace it with another liqueur, such as sherry or marsala. Happy macerating!
The homemade preparation of preserves and jams can pose health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the necessary conditions and measures to guarantee the safety and suitability of the food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures are able to ensure to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to meticulously follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but one must always keep in mind that the same level of food safety as professional preserves and jams can never be achieved. For the correct preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the guidelines from the Ministry of Health .

