name:
Sour cherry tart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(190 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Butter: 4oz(115 g)
Egg yolks: 2.1oz(60 g)- (about 4)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Lemon peel: 1- untreated
Sour cherries: 4cups(1 kg)
Cherry jam: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note plus 20 minutes of cooking the sour cherries and 1 hour of resting the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
To prepare the sour cherry tart, start with the pastry base (for the detailed procedure, you can also consult the Cooking School Shortcrust pastry : in a mixer, pour in the flour and add the pieces of cold butter , then activate the mixer until you obtain a sandy mixture . Place the obtained mixture on a work surface, forming the classic fountain shape, and add the salt in the center .
Continue by adding the powdered sugar and grated lemon zest in the center . Now create a bit of space in the center and pour in the egg yolks .
Quickly start kneading the ingredients with your hands (7-8) until you get a smooth and compact mixture. Then form a dough ball .
Wrap the dough ball in plastic wrap and refrigerate it for at least 2 hours. In the meantime, prepare the sour cherries: wash them under running water, then cut them in half with a small knife and remove the pit from each one .
Once you have removed all the pits, pour the sour cherries into a large pan with the brown sugar . Let the sour cherries cook over medium heat for 20 minutes, until the liquid has almost completely evaporated , then turn off the heat and let them cool. With a brush, butter a 10.5-inch diameter tart pan and flour it.
After the 2 hours of resting in the fridge, take the shortcrust pastry dough ball, place it on a cold and floured surface, and begin to roll it out with a rolling pin . Roll out the shortcrust pastry into a sheet about 0.2 inches thick . Then, with the help of the rolling pin, lift the rolled-out pastry and place it over the tart pan . Carefully trim off the excess dough from the edges (if you wish, you can use the excess dough to create decorations for your tart).
Make the pastry adhere to the surface and along the edge of the tart pan by gently pressing with your hands . Now you can begin to fill the tart: start with the cherry jam , ensuring you spread it over the entire surface. Then add the previously cooked sour cherries .
When you have evenly distributed the sour cherries as well , finish by grating the zest of an untreated lemon . Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 50 minutes (or in a convection oven at 320°F for 40-45 minutes) or until the edges are golden. Remove from the oven and let it cool . You can serve your sour cherry tart plain or sprinkle it with powdered sugar!
Store the sour cherry tart at room temperature under a glass dome or covered with a sheet of aluminum foil for 3-4 days. The raw shortcrust pastry can be stored wrapped in plastic wrap in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. Unbaked, the pastry can also be frozen, still wrapped in plastic wrap.
The sour cherry tree, the Amareno (Prunus Cerasus), originates from the Middle East, specifically the Caucasus region, and seems to have been introduced in Italy around the 1st century BC. It is a versatile plant that adapts to any climate and grows in both hilly and mountainous areas. The fruits, known as sour cherries or morello cherries, are used in traditional recipes such as syrups, preserves, liqueurs, and sweet preparations. The sour cherries of Cantiano, in the Province of Pesaro Urbino, are registered in the Official Gazette as a traditional agri-food product of the Marche Region. They grow spontaneously in the shade of Mount Catria, a region characterized by calcareous and clayey soil.
Sweeter or more aromatic? In one case, the solution is to increase the sugar, or choose riper cherries; in the other, why not add a bit of cinnamon?

