name:
Lettuce Cups with Turkey Salad
ingredients:
Turkey breast: 0.6lb(250 g)
Lettuce: 3 ½cups(100 g)- baby
Cashews: 2.8tbsp(25 g)
Carrots: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: ½
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Mayonnaise: 0.4cup(100 g)
Dijon mustard: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Sweet mustard: 2tbsp(30 g)
Wildflower honey: 1tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the lettuce cups with turkey salad, place the turkey breast on a cutting board and cut it into irregular bites . Then cut a fresh chili pepper in half , divide it again into two, and remove the seeds inside .
Then take a non-stick pan, heat a little oil, and add a peeled garlic clove with its internal germ removed. Add the chopped chili pepper to the garlic , and when they start to brown, add the turkey breast bites . Salt and pepper to taste, and remove the garlic clove when it has turned golden . Cook the bites for about 10 minutes, turning them from time to time to cook them thoroughly until they are well browned.
When the turkey bites are cooked, transfer them to a mixer , blend for a few seconds until the meat is well chopped , and then transfer the blended mixture into a large bowl. You can also carry out this process with a knife if you don't have a mixer. At this point, place the cashews on a cutting board and coarsely chop them .
Sauté the chopped cashews in a non-stick pan and toast them for a few minutes until they are crispy and darker . Then add the toasted cashews to the chopped turkey bites . Next, take a carrot, peel it, and cut it in half. Then slice it into very small cubes .
Also wash the parsley under running water and finely chop it on a cutting board . At this point, add the diced carrot and the chopped parsley to the mixture .
Now prepare the mustard sauce: transfer the mayonnaise into a small bowl and in order add Dijon mustard , delicate mustard , and honey . Mix everything until you get a rather light sauce characterized by the dark grains of Dijon mustard.
Once the mustard sauce is prepared, add half of it to the turkey, carrot, and parsley mixture and mix until a rather compact consistency is achieved. Now carefully wash the baby lettuce and separate the leaves, placing the crunchiest and most curved ones on a serving plate. Then proceed to fill them with the mixture . Your lettuce cups with turkey salad are ready to be served. Season them with more mustard sauce to make them even more delicious !
It is advisable to serve and consume the lettuce cups with turkey salad immediately. They can be stored in the fridge well covered with plastic wrap for up to two days. You can instead freeze the turkey bites mixture without the sauce.
These cups are phenomenal and you must try them! Even if you have chicken instead of turkey at home, or if you lack baby lettuce (but have iceberg hearts or radicchio leaves)... and they lend themselves to some interesting customization, such as being dressed with the eggless mayonnaise, which is more delicate than mustard sauce. Those who do not like strong flavors should remember to omit the chili pepper!

