name:
Marbled cheesecake
ingredients:
Cookies: 6.5oz(180 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Cream cheese: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Sugar: 9 ½tbsp(120 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 3.5oz(100 ml)- (plus 2 tablespoons)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)
Cream cheese: 0.7cup(150 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.4cup(50 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Gelatin in sheets: 0.2oz(5 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note plus 30 minutes to set the cookie base and 4-6 hours to set the cream

instructions:
To prepare the marbled cheesecake, start by setting up the base: put the cookies in the mixer and chop them finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan; in the meantime, place the chopped cookies in a bowl and gradually add the melted butter , mixing everything together well. Butter a 9-inch springform pan; cut a circle of parchment paper the same diameter as the base of the pan and two strips the same height as the sides, then line the pan itself. For more details, consult the lining a cake pan with parchment paper guide from the Cooking School. Pour the crumbled cookies into the parchment-lined pan and use a spoon to compact the cookie base . Chill the mixture in the refrigerator for half an hour or in the freezer for about ten minutes.
Now move on to the filling: prepare the white cream by soaking 8g of gelatin sheets in cold water to soften them . Beat the cream cheese with the sugar, vanilla , and 100ml of heavy cream , obtaining a smooth and homogeneous mixture. Heat two tablespoons of cream (you can do this in the microwave for convenience) and dissolve the previously drained and squeezed gelatin in it.
Allow the cream and gelatin mixture to cool, then add it to the rest of the cream , and set aside. Now prepare the chocolate cream: put the dark chocolate in a bowl and place it in a saucepan half-filled with water. Then turn on the heat and melt the chocolate in a double boiler. In a separate bowl, place the cream cheese and powdered sugar and mix the two ingredients with an electric mixer. Then add the melted and cooled chocolate and beat the ingredients together .
Once you have obtained a homogeneous mixture , transfer it to a stand mixer (or a large bowl to work with an electric mixer) and add an egg yolk . Start the beaters to mix the mixture and finally add the cream , in which you have previously dissolved the gelatin, and mix to incorporate the ingredients.
At this point, you can start assembling your cheesecake: spoon the white cream in spaced dollops onto the now compacted cookie base, filling the gaps with the dark cream. To achieve the marbled effect, use a fork and make an upward movement to lightly mix the two batters . Place the marbled cheesecake in the refrigerator for at least 4-6 hours before serving it .
The marbled cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for 3-4 days. Or you can freeze it, preferably dividing it into portions, in suitable food containers. Remember to thaw it slowly in the refrigerator.

