name:
Cheesecake without gelatin
ingredients:
Cookies: 6.3oz(180 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Cream cheese: 1.1cups(250 g)
Cookies: 1cup(120 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 3.5oz(100 g)
Powdered sugar: ½cup(60 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp(5 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)- sheets
Cream cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Powdered sugar: 2.67tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the ricotta and the cooling time of the cheesecake (6 h)

instructions:
To prepare the cheesecake without gelatin, start by placing the ricotta in a sieve and let it drain for at least 2-3 hours, preferably overnight. Then, focus on making the base: put the digestive biscuits in a food processor and blend until they are finely crushed. Transfer them to a bowl and add the melted but not too hot butter .
Mix everything well and line a 8.5-inch cake pan with parchment paper. Pour the cookie mixture into the pan and use a spoon to compact the base well .
Place everything in the refrigerator for half an hour or in the freezer for about ten minutes, until the cookie mixture is solidified. Sift the drained ricotta into a large bowl . In the same bowl, add the cream cheese and vanilla extract .
Using an electric mixer, mix well to combine all the ingredients ; add the powdered sugar and continue to mix with the mixer . Once all the sugar is incorporated, add the 120 g of digestive biscuits to the food processor .
Blend until they are coarsely crushed . Add the crushed cookies to the cream , mix with a spatula, add the chocolate chips and combine well.
Remove the cheesecake base from the refrigerator, now cold and firm, and pour the prepared cream on top . Level the surface with a spatula or the back of a spoon and refrigerate for at least 4 hours to set. After this time, place the 150 g of cream cheese and the 20 g of powdered sugar in a bowl .
Mix well with a spatula and transfer to a piping bag with a star nozzle. At this point, take your cheesecake without gelatin out of the fridge, remove the springform ring, and gently peel off the parchment paper . Transfer it to a serving plate and decorate with dollops of cream cheese and chocolate shavings . Your cheesecake without gelatin is ready to serve!
The cheesecake without gelatin can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for 3-4 days. Alternatively, you can freeze it, preferably dividing it into portions in suitable food containers. Remember to thaw it slowly in the refrigerator before enjoying.
Let the cheesecake without gelatin set in the refrigerator overnight, so you can enjoy its full creaminess.

