name:
Black Forest Cheesecake
ingredients:
Dry chocolate cookies: 2cups(180 g)
Butter: 6tbsp(80 g)
Cream cheese: 8oz(225 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 8oz(225 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Powdered sugar: 0.6cup(75 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(12 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2spoonfuls
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 ml)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.25oz(8 g)
Powdered sugar: 1spoonful
Black cherried in syrup: 8.8oz(250 g)- drained
Amarena cherry: 2.3tbsp(100 ml)- syrup
Gelatin in sheets: 0.2oz(6 g)
Liquor infused cherries: 12
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(100 ml)
Chocolate sprinkles: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Serving: 12
Cost: Average
Note plus the base cooling time: 30 min in the fridge or 15 minutes in the freezer; cheesecake cooling time: at least 3 hours (divided into several steps)

instructions:
To prepare the Black Forest cheesecake, start by making the base: place the cocoa cookies in a food processor, finely chop them, and transfer them to a bowl. Melt the butter in a saucepan or microwave and gradually add it to the cookies , mixing well to combine. Butter a springform cake pan with a 9-inch diameter and line it with parchment paper (to see how, check here our Cooking School: how to line a cake pan with parchment paper). Pour the crumbled cookies into the pan and press down with the back of a spoon to compact the cookie base . Chill the base in the refrigerator for half an hour or in the freezer for 15 minutes.
Now prepare the chocolate cream: pour the dark chocolate chips into a bowl and place the bowl inside a saucepan filled with water halfway up. Heat the chocolate over a bain-marie, keeping the heat very low until it is completely melted . Meanwhile, pour the cream cheese and 25 g of powdered sugar into a bowl and whip until a frothy mixture is obtained. At this point, add the melted dark chocolate after allowing it to cool slightly and mix everything together .
Beat the egg whites with the remaining sugar (50 g) until stiff and, when they are firm, add them to the chocolate cream, stirring with a spatula from top to bottom to avoid deflating the egg whites . Soften 12 g of gelatin in cold water for 10 minutes, squeeze it, and dissolve it in 2 tablespoons of warm cream . If you want to learn more about using gelatin, How to use gelatin sheets our Cooking School: how to use gelatin.
Once the cream is at room temperature, add it to the chocolate cream and mix until a homogeneous mixture is obtained. Take the cookie base, which will be firm, and pour half of the chocolate cream over it , spreading it evenly . Leave everything to rest in the refrigerator for at least half an hour; cover the remaining chocolate cream with plastic wrap and store it in a cool place (not in the refrigerator, otherwise it will firm up too much).
Meanwhile, prepare the cherry sauce: drain the cherries well and set aside 100 ml of the syrup. Soften the gelatin in cold water for 10 minutes, squeeze it well, and dissolve it in the syrup . After the resting time, take the cheesecake and pour the cherries and the syrup with the gelatin over it . Place the cake back in the refrigerator to firm up for at least half an hour.
In the meantime, work on the cream layer: in a stand mixer with a whisk attachment or with an electric beater, whip the cream (leaving aside 1-2 tablespoons to dissolve the gelatin) with 1 tablespoon of powdered sugar ; set aside a couple of tablespoons of whipped cream for the final decoration. Soften 8 g of gelatin in cold water, squeeze it , and dissolve it in 1-2 tablespoons of warm cream .
Once the cream with gelatin is at room temperature, incorporate it into the whipped cream and mix. Take the cake and now form the cream layer: pour the cream over the cherries and spread it evenly with the back of a spoon . Place the cheesecake in the refrigerator again for half an hour.
After the necessary time has passed, pour the remaining chocolate cream over the base , forming an even layer with a spatula. Place the cheesecake to firm up in the refrigerator for the last time, for another half hour. After this time, your Black Forest cheesecake is ready to be garnished: pipe dollops of whipped cream using a pastry bag with a star nozzle and decorate as you like with cherries in syrup or fresh and chocolate sprinkles .
The Black Forest cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for 3-4 days. You can freeze it, dividing it into portions if you prefer, in suitable food containers. Thaw the cheesecake in the refrigerator when needed.

