name:
Red Velvet cheesecake
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 7oz(200 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Brown sugar: 2spoonfuls
Cream cheese: 2cups(480 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ⅓cup(100 ml)
Potato starch: 6 ¼tbsp(50 g)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Eggs: 2- medium
Food coloring: ¼tsp- red, powdered
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Fresh liquid cream: 1.1cups(250 ml)
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼tbsp(15 g)
Sprinkles: to taste- red

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note plus the time to cool the base: 30 min in the fridge or 15 min in the freezer

instructions:
To prepare the Red Velvet cheesecake, start by preparing the crust: put the Digestive biscuits in a mixer along with the brown sugar , then finely chop them. Place the butter to melt in a saucepan over low heat; meanwhile, put the chopped biscuits in a bowl and gradually add the melted butter ; then mix the ingredients well. Butter a cake pan, preferably with a removable bottom, 9 inches in diameter; cut out a circle of parchment paper the same diameter as the bottom of the pan and two strips the same height as the sides, then line the pan itself. For this operation, you can consult the cooking school guide: how to line a cake pan with parchment paper. Now, pour the crumbled biscuits into the pan lined with parchment paper and use the back of a spoon to compact the biscuit base well . Cool the mixture in the refrigerator for 30 minutes or in the freezer for about 10-15 minutes.
You can then proceed to prepare the cream: place the cheese and the two eggs in a stand mixer , turn on the beaters to mix the ingredients and then add the granulated sugar . If you do not have a stand mixer, you can work the ingredients in a large bowl with an electric mixer or a hand whisk. Add the vanilla extract and also incorporate the pouring fresh cream while continuing to mix.
At this point, dissolve the powder colorant in 50 ml (1/4 cup) of water , mix with a teaspoon, and add it to the cream . If you use liquid or gel colorant, there is no need to dissolve it in water and you can use the amount necessary for the cream to take on the desired color. Mix well with the beaters, and finally, add the sifted potato starch to the cream and mix until you have a uniform red mixture. Then, remove the biscuit base from the refrigerator and gently lay the obtained cream . Be careful to cover the surface evenly with the help of a spatula. Bake the cheesecake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for about 60 minutes (if using a fan oven, 300°F for 45-50 minutes).
While the cake is baking, proceed to whip the cream for the decoration: pour the liquid cream into a bowl and sift the powdered sugar . Then whip the cream to decorate the cheesecake . For this step, you can consult the cooking school guide: How to Whip Cream .
Now you can proceed to decorate the cake: once the baking time is over, remove the cheesecake from the oven and release it onto a serving plate. Let it cool; in the meantime, fill a piping bag with a star nozzle with the previously whipped cream and start garnishing your Red Velvet cheesecake with whipped cream tufts along the circumference of the cake and almost to the center, also decorating the edges (13-14). You can finish the decoration as you like, for example, with colored sugar sprinkles to give a bright red contrast to your Red Velvet cheesecake !
The Red Velvet cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for 3-4 days. Or you can freeze it, if you prefer already dividing it into portions, in appropriate food containers. Remember to defrost it slowly in the refrigerator.

