name:
Radiators with vegetables and saffron
ingredients:
Radiatori pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Saffron: 1bag
Frozen peas: ¾cup(130 g)
Carrots: 0.6cup(130 g)
Zucchini: 1cup(130 g)
Green beans: 4.6oz(130 g)
Fresh scallion: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare radiators with vegetables and saffron, start by thoroughly washing the vegetables . Once washed, drain and dry them . Then take the fresh scallion, peel it, and after cutting it in half, slice it into wedges .
Peel the carrot with a vegetable peeler, cut it in half, slice it lengthwise, and finally form strips . Take the zucchini and, without peeling it, cut it into strips like the carrot . After cutting the green beans in half , set the vegetables aside in small bowls.
Pour the extra virgin olive oil into a non-stick pan and when the oil is hot, add the scallion wedges . Cook for 5-6 minutes over medium heat, adding water to soften it, then add the carrots and cook them for another two minutes only with the scallion .
Add the green beans , salt, and pepper to taste. Add more water to facilitate cooking and cook over moderate heat for 6 minutes, then add the zucchini .
Finally, add the peas and salt and pepper again. Let the vegetables cook for about 15 minutes on low heat until they soften. At this point, bring water to a boil in a pot and once it reaches boiling, add the radiators , cook for about 9 minutes. In the meantime, take a small bowl, pour in the saffron packet and add some of the cooking water .
As soon as the radiators are cooked, drain them and pour them into the pan with the vegetables , mix everything, amalgamating the pasta with the vegetables. Immediately after, add the saffron dissolved in the cooking water you had prepared and mix. Now your radiators with vegetables and saffron are ready to be plated, served, and enjoyed!
Store the radiators with vegetables and saffron in the refrigerator in an airtight container or well-covered with plastic wrap for one day. Freezing is not recommended
Do you know the produce section or your greengrocer's shelves? Raid them! This pasta is delicious with all kinds of vegetables, so you just need to choose your favorites. If you want to add some to our version, you can try with potatoes or eggplants, and possibly fresh peas (keeping in mind that they have a longer cooking time). If, on the other hand, you crave oriental and strong flavors, set the saffron aside and bring out the curry: India will land on your table in the blink of an eye!

