name:
Savory scones with peas and bacon
ingredients:
Pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Peas: ½cup(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(220 g)
Whole milk: ⅔cup(150 ml)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- at room temperature
Yellow onions: ½
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 4tsp(12 g)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Fine salt: 0.375tsp(2 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Cream cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 3.5oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 18 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus 30 minutes for dough resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the savory scones with peas and bacon, start by cleaning the fresh peas: shell them by opening the pods and saving the peas in a bowl . Take half a yellow onion, peel it, place it on a cutting board, and chop it finely , then cut the fresh bacon into cubes , use whichever you prefer: sweet or smoked. If you don't want to use fresh bacon, you can also use diced bacon found in the refrigerated section at the supermarket.
Now take a non-stick pan, pour a drizzle of oil and fry the chopped onion . Once the onion is browned, add the diced bacon and finally the shelled fresh peas . Let cook on low heat for about 15-20 minutes, adding water if needed to help the cooking. Once cooked, let them cool.
Meanwhile, prepare the scone dough: place the flour in a large bowl and add the salt , the yeast , and the butter cut into pieces at room temperature .
Mix the ingredients, add the milk , and knead with your hands until you get a rather compact mixture .
At this point add the cooked peas and diced bacon and a few thyme leaves . Continue to work by hand until the dough is smooth. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and leave it to cool and rise in the fridge for at least half an hour.
Spread a piece of parchment paper on a pastry board and place the dough on it once it has solidified and risen . Cover the dough with another piece of parchment paper and roll it out with a rolling pin into a sheet about 0.6 inches thick .
Then cut out circles from the rolled-out dough using a round cookie cutter with a diameter of 2.5 inches . Transfer the pastry circles onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 15 minutes (if using a convection oven, bake at 356°F for about 10 minutes). When the scones are lightly golden on top, they are cooked . Remove them from the oven and transfer them to a rack to cool.
When they have cooled, place them on a cutting board or surface and cut them in half . Spread fresh cheese or mascarpone and fill with cooked ham (or speck) sliced thinly. Now your savory scones with peas and bacon are ready to be served on a serving plate and enjoyed with their delicious filling !
Store the savory scones with peas and bacon in a plastic food bag in the fridge for up to 2-3 days. You can freeze the already cooked scones without filling them, then thaw them at room temperature when you need them.
For a quick preparation, use diced bacon and frozen peas! Any regret for not using only fresh ingredients will disappear at the speed of light once you taste the scones. On the day you have time, we suggest testing different fillings, for example, showing off your favorite cold cuts and cheeses. And finally, good news for those intolerant to milk: you can replace milk with soy milk, the result will be the same.

