name:
Quesadillas
ingredients:
Corn tortillas: 8
Chicken breast: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Fontina cheese: 14oz(400 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 1lb(450 g)
Yellow onions: 4
Salad: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the quesadillas, start by slicing the onion into not too thin slices . Then, handle the chicken breasts: place them on a cutting board and cut them into strips . After heating a bit of oil in a non-stick pan, add the sliced onion and cook over low heat until golden .
Then, add the chicken strips and cook for about 15 minutes, seasoning with salt to taste. Meanwhile, grate the fontina cheese (or Edamer) , carefully wash the tomato, and slice it .
Next, take a pan and heat the tortilla on both sides ; if you want, you can make your own Flour tortillas or corn tortillas. Then, create a first layer of grated cheese and lay the chicken strips on top .
Add the onion cooked with the chicken , the tomatoes , and the lettuce .
Finish with another layer of grated cheese and close with another tortilla, pressing well to adhere the cheese to the tortilla . Once the heat is off, transfer the quesadillas to a cutting board and divide them into 4 parts . Your quesadillas are ready to be served and enjoyed while still hot!
Consume the quesadillas as soon as they are prepared! You can store the quesadillas in the refrigerator well covered with plastic wrap or inside an airtight container for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Quesadillas are a delight of Mexican cuisine that you must try at least once! But let's get to the tastiest part: the filling. You can stuff them with whatever you prefer: another type of meat or just vegetables; the important thing is to let the cheese melt, whether it's fontina, Edamer, or another of your choice! If you love Tex-Mex, feel free to add sauces: enchilada, guacamole, and Mexican tomato sauce! An alternative for delicate palates: fake mayonnaise, as light as it gets.

