name:
Risotto alla paesana
ingredients:
Arborio rice: 1.67cups(320 g)
Fava beans: 1cup(250 g)- (already shelled)
Peas: 1cup(200 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 7oz(200 g)
Zucchini: 0.875cup(100 g)
Carrots: ½cup(100 g)
Celery: 3.5oz(100 g)
Onions: 0.67cup(100 g)
Pancetta: 1.75oz(50 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To make the country-style risotto, first prepare the Vegetable broth and keep it warm. Start with the sauté: clean and dice the carrots , celery , and onion into very small cubes, between 1 and 3 mm.
Remove the rind from the bacon and cut it first into slices and then into cubes of the same size . Pour the bacon into a large pot , turn on the medium-low heat, and brown, stirring often.
When the bacon starts to release its fat, add the celery , onion , and carrots .
Salt and continue cooking over low heat until the onion is soft and transparent. In the meantime, peel the fava beans by gently scoring the outer skin with your fingers .
Wash and trim the zucchini, then cut them in half and then into quarters lengthwise. Remove the central white part , then cut them further in half lengthwise and dice into cubes of about 1/2 inch .
Finally, cut the tomatoes in half , remove the seeds with a teaspoon , and dice the flesh into cubes the same size as the zucchini .
When the sauté is ready, add the tomatoes and zucchini , then brown over medium heat for 5 minutes .
At this point, add the rice and toast it for a few minutes, then salt and cover with the hot broth . Continue cooking over medium heat for about 15 minutes. Halfway through cooking, add the fava beans .
Add the peas , stir and adjust with salt and pepper . Once the rice is cooked, turn off the heat and cream with the oil .
Cream also with the grated Grana Padano PDO and mix everything well . Plate your country-style risotto by finishing with a grind of pepper and a few basil leaves !
The country-style risotto can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
The white part of the zucchini can be used to make vegetable broth!
If fava beans are not in season, you can omit them or use frozen ones: in this case, just add them 3 minutes before the end of the rice cooking time.

