name:
Stuffed Eggplants with Spaghetti alla Norma
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Round eggplants: 4
Peeled tomatoes: 2cups(500 g)
Salted ricotta cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Basil: 12leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the stuffed eggplants with spaghetti alla norma, first wash the eggplants, remove the stem with the leaves, and cut off the top part of the eggplants . Gently scoop them out with a paring knife and set the pulp aside , which you will moisten with a drop of lemon or vinegar to prevent it from turning black before use. Even out the bottom of the eggplants so they stand upright and salt them .
Place the eggplants in the basket of a steamer . If you don't have a steamer, you can use a stainless steel strainer. Alternatively, cook the eggplants in foil in a static oven at 350°F for 15-20 minutes, checking that they do not crumble. Cover the steamer with the lid and cook them for about 20 minutes or until they are soft ,
turning them gently a couple of times . Now cut the eggplant pulp into pieces and cook it in plenty of olive oil for 10-15 minutes , until everything is soft and golden.
Drain the fried eggplants on a sheet of absorbent paper and set them aside. In another pan, brown the whole garlic cloves with a drizzle of oil , add the peeled tomatoes , and cook until they reduce to a pulp.
Then, put the pulp through a food mill to obtain a smooth sauce . Return the obtained sauce to the heat . Alternatively, you can use tomato puree and a tablespoon of triple concentrated tomato paste diluted in hot water.
add the basil leaves and the eggplants that you previously cooked and set aside. Now cook the spaghetti in plenty of salted water , once cooked, drain them and toss them in the pan with the sauce ,
finally season with grated salted ricotta . Stuff the eggplants with the spaghetti . Grate some salted ricotta also on the eggplants and garnish with a basil leaf . Your stuffed eggplants with spaghetti alla norma are ready to be served!
You can store the pasta in the refrigerator in an airtight container or a bowl covered with plastic wrap for up to 2 days.
The true indulgences to enjoy in this dish are two: also seasoning the eggplant with the sauce, granting yourself an explosion of flavor and, especially, gratinating it in the oven before serving. Five minutes will be enough for you to remember it forever!

