name:
Stew in Crust with Potatoes and Mushrooms
ingredients:
Beef: 1.1lbs(500 g)- pulp
Blond beer: 1.7oz(50 ml)
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 7.1cups(500 g)
Vegetable broth: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 2
Onions: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: ⅔cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Blond beer: 3.5oz(105 ml)
Eggs: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 2 h 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the stew in crust with potatoes and mushrooms, start with the stew: clean the beef pulp from any excess fat , or have your trusted butcher do this for you, then divide the pulp into pieces and cut it into cubes about 1/2 inch .
Brown the meat in a large pot with extra virgin olive oil for a few minutes over high heat and deglaze with the beer . Cut the celery, carrot, and onion into coarse pieces and add them to the meat, stirring occasionally. Wash, peel, and cut the potatoes into pieces and add these to the meat as well .
Cover the ingredients with hot broth , add salt and pepper, and add the thyme sprigs ; stir and finally add the cleaned and sliced champignon mushrooms . Cover the pot with a lid and let the stew simmer for about an hour over low heat, adding broth from time to time if necessary.
While the meat is cooking, prepare the beer-based shortcrust pastry: blend the flour with the cold diced butter in a mixer to obtain a sandy mixture. Transfer the mixture onto a work surface and form a well in the center where you will add the cold beer . Gather the ingredients by first whisking with a fork in the center ;
then continue with your hands , kneading until you get a smooth and soft dough . Wrap the shortcrust pastry in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30-40 minutes .
When the meat is very tender and the stew is quite dry and not too brothy, turn off the heat and let it cool . Take the beer-based shortcrust pastry and divide it in half, then roll out the first part into a sheet, with the help of a rolling pin, about 1/8 inch thick . Line a 10-inch diameter baking tin with parchment paper and
cover the baking tin with the first sheet of shortcrust pastry , cutting off the excess pastry with a pasta cutter to obtain an edge about 1/2 inch high . Fill the crust with the cold stew and
press it a bit with the back of a spoon on the sides to form a kind of mound in the center . Roll out the other half of the pastry into a 1/2 inch thick sheet and use it to cover the stew . Remove any excess pastry and press the edges to seal and close the pastry .
Make a hole in the center with the tip of a knife, which will serve to let the steam escape during cooking ; with the pastry scraps, form small leaves or decorations of your choice to embellish the pastry . Slightly score the edge of the shortcrust pastry with the tines of a fork to obtain a decorative effect and to seal the edges well .
Brush the surface of the shortcrust pastry with an egg beaten with a little cream or milk (28-29) and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 50 minutes (if a fan oven, 320°F for 40-45 minutes). Take the stew in crust with potatoes and mushrooms out of the oven when the surface is nicely golden brown : wait a few minutes to let it cool slightly and serve your stew in crust with potatoes and mushrooms!
Store the stew in crust with potatoes and mushrooms in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for 2 days. You can freeze it already in the crust either cooked or raw, thaw it, and then heat or bake it in the oven as described in the recipe.
You can flavor the stew in crust with potatoes and mushrooms with some diced bacon or speck to make it even more delicious!

