name:
Chocolate and Pear Cheesecake
ingredients:
Cookies: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Pears: 2.67cups(400 g)
Cream cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Dark chocolate: 10.6oz(300 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Cornstarch: ½cup(80 g)
Whole milk: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Eggs: 3- medium
Water: 4spoonfuls
Sugar: 1spoonful
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Lemon juice: ½
Pears: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note plus the time to cool the base: 30 min in the fridge or 15 minutes in the freezer; cooling time of the cheesecake: at least 4 hours in the fridge

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate and pear cheesecake, start by preparing the base: place the dry cookies in the mixer and blend until finely ground . Melt the butter in a saucepan and, in the meantime, transfer the ground cookies to a bowl. Gradually add the melted butter to the ground cookies, mixing everything well . Butter a cake pan, preferably with a removable bottom, with a diameter of 9 inches, and then line the bottom and sides with parchment paper (learn how by reading the Cooking School: lining a cake pan with parchment paper, here). Pour the crumbled cookies into the cake pan lined with parchment paper and press the cookie base firmly with a spoon . Chill the mixture in the refrigerator for half an hour or in the freezer for about ten minutes.
Now focus on the cream: clean the pears by peeling and seeding them , then cut them into cubes . Place the cubed pear in a non-stick pan and cook with the lemon juice .
Add a pinch of cinnamon , a tablespoon of sugar , and 4 tablespoons of water. Then let it cook for a few minutes until the pears are soft and fairly dry. Once ready, set them aside in a bowl and let them cool .
Now prepare the chocolate to be combined with the cream cheese: place the dark chocolate in a bowl and set it in a saucepan filled halfway with water. Then turn on the heat and melt the chocolate in a double boiler. In a separate bowl, place the fresh cream cheese and powdered sugar and mix the two ingredients with an electric beater. Then add the melted chocolate and mix . Once you have a smooth mixture , transfer it to a stand mixer (or a large bowl to work with an electric mixer), add the eggs, and start the beaters.
While the beaters are running, slowly add the milk. Mix everything well and add the sifted cornstarch . When the mixture is smooth and homogeneous, turn off the stand mixer and add the pears, mixing with a spatula . Your chocolate cream cheese mixture will then be ready. Take the now firm cookie base from the fridge and fill it with the cream . Bake in a static oven for one hour at 338°F (if using a convection oven, bake at 302°F for 50 minutes). Once the cheesecake is cooked, let it cool in the fridge for 4 hours. With the pear set aside for decoration, garnish the cake as you prefer, for example by cutting the pear into thin slices and arranging them in a fan shape.
The chocolate and pear cheesecake keeps in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for 3-4 days. Alternatively, you can freeze it, preferably dividing it into portions in appropriate food containers. Remember to thaw it slowly in the refrigerator.

