name:
Sweet Danubio with Nesquik
ingredients:
Nesquik: 7tbsp(100 g)
Manitoba flour: 1.4cups(175 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Whole milk: ⅓cup(100 ml)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Eggs: 1
Sugar: 3.6tsp(15 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1.3tsp(4 g)
Fine salt: ⅓tsp(2 g)
Orange peel: 1- to grate
Orange marmelade: ½cup(150 g)
Chocolate drops: 3oz(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus 4 hours of rising

instructions:
To prepare the sweet Danube with Nesquik, sift the two flours and place them in the bowl of a stand mixer equipped with a paddle attachment (if you do not have a stand mixer, you can knead by hand, using a fork to incorporate the liquids into the flours). Add the Nesquik and the grated orange zest
and turn on the mixer to start incorporating the ingredients. Dissolve the yeast (alternatively, you can use 15 g of fresh yeast) in lukewarm milk and add it to the mixture , add the other ingredients while keeping the mixer on: the beaten egg , the sugar ,
the salt , and the softened butter, a piece at a time until the dough has completely absorbed it (if kneading by hand, add the ingredients little by little, ensuring one ingredient is well mixed before adding another, this way no lumps will form in the dough). Once you have finished incorporating the butter, transfer the dough onto a floured work surface and knead it for a few minutes (9-10)
if it turns out too soft, add a little flour gradually. Form a ball with the dough, place it in a bowl covered with plastic wrap and let it rise for about 3 hours in a turned-off oven with the light on (at a temperature of about 77°F),
to double its volume . After three hours, transfer the dough to the work surface and divide the dough into 15 balls, each weighing 40 g. Slightly roll out each ball using a rolling pin to obtain discs about 1/4 inch thick and
place 10 g of orange marmalade and 6 g of chocolate chips in the center. Close the discs creating little bundles . Continue until you finish all the dough.
Take a rectangular baking dish measuring 11 x 7 inches, line it with parchment paper , and place the bundles inside with the closure facing down so they do not open up and slightly apart from each other, the bundles should almost touch each other . Cover the dish with plastic wrap and let the Danube rise again for about an hour in the turned-off oven with the light on (at a temperature of about 77°F).
After one hour, the balls will have risen and will have stuck together, forming a single block . Brush the surface of the Danube with the beaten egg yolk so that it appears shiny after baking. Bake the Danube in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 40 minutes or in a fan-forced oven at 320°F for 30 minutes. The Danube will be ready when the surface is shiny and slightly darker. Remove the Danube from the oven, let it cool slightly, and serve the bundles as single servings.
It is recommended to consume the Danube within a couple of days. You can freeze the Danube balls after the last rising. When you defrost the Danube, you should take care to let it rise for another hour before baking.
You can replace the orange marmalade with any other jam of your choice: strawberry, apricot, peach, cherry, mixed berries. If you do not have a rectangular baking dish, you can use a round cake pan with a diameter of 9 1/2 inches.

