name:
Savory beer angelica
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1.1cups(135 g)
Water: 5tbsp(75 g)- lukewarm
Brewer's yeast: 0.67tsp(3 g)
Malt: 1tsp
Blond beer: ⅔cup(150 g)
Manitoba flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Butter: 1cup(120 g)- soft
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.65oz(75 g)- to grate
Egg yolks: 3
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Dried tomatoes: 3.5oz(100 g)
Salami: 5.3oz(150 g)
Feta cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Green olives: 1.8oz(50 g)- pitted
Black olives: 1.75oz(50 g)- pitted
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + 3 hours and 1/2 for dough rising

instructions:
To prepare the savory beer angelica, first make the starter: dissolve the active dry yeast (alternatively, you can use 12 g of fresh yeast) in lukewarm water by stirring with a teaspoon ; then add the barley malt (or sugar) and, still stirring, dissolve it. In a bowl, place the flour you have previously sifted, add the yeast and malt mixture , and mix all the ingredients until combined.
Transfer the dough to a surface and begin kneading until you form a smooth and uniform ball which will be your starter . Place the starter in a bowl, cover the bowl with plastic wrap , and let it rise in a turned-off oven with the light on until it doubles in size .
In a bowl, beat the eggs together with the beer , then add the Parmesan , salt, and mix everything. Take a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, place the sifted flour inside, transfer the egg mixture into the mixer (if you don't have a stand mixer, place the ingredients in a bowl and knead by hand).
Knead with the paddle until all the ingredients are combined . Remove the paddle, attach the dough hook, and start adding the room temperature butter, cut into pieces, a little at a time, allowing the dough time to absorb it . Continue kneading until the butter is completely incorporated and the dough is smooth .
At this point, add the starter to the dough a little at a time and continue kneading with the hook until the starter is fully incorporated. Transfer the dough to a floured surface and work it until you get a smooth and uniform ball. Place the dough in a bowl and cover it with plastic wrap ; let it rise in a turned-off oven with the light on for 2 hours
until the dough doubles in size . Now, prepare the filling: slice the green and black olives, dice the salami and feta into regular cubes, and chop the sun-dried tomatoes . Take the risen dough and roll it out with a rolling pin to a thickness of about 1/5 inch trying to obtain a rectangular shape .
Brush the obtained sheet with extra virgin olive oil and sprinkle it with the previously cut ingredients: salami, black olives, green olives, sun-dried tomatoes, and feta . Start rolling the sheet from the longer side, trying to tighten as much as possible to prevent the filling from coming out .
Roll until you get a roll . Cut the roll in half with a thin bladed knife and floured (so it doesn't stick to the dough), then separate the two parts and twist them, keeping the cut side up to reveal the sections and its filling .
Shape the braid into a ring and seal the two ends by overlapping them , place the angelica on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , and let it rise for 30 minutes in a turned-off oven with the light on until it doubles in size. After 30 minutes, bake the savory beer angelica in a preheated static oven at 355°F for 35 minutes (or in a fan oven at 320°F for 25 minutes). When the surface is golden, remove the savory beer angelica from the oven and let it cool slightly before serving.
Store the savory beer angelica for a maximum of 2-3 days under a glass dome or in an airtight container. You can freeze the already baked angelica, portioned for easier thawing.
You can vary the filling according to your taste. For example, you can make a completely vegetarian savory beer angelica using sautéed vegetables like zucchini, peppers, eggplants. You can also change the cheese: instead of feta, you can add provolone or scamorza or any other cheese that is not too aged.

