name:
Breaded Eggplant Cutlets
ingredients:
Eggplant: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Salted capers: 1tbsp(20 g)- desalted
Basil: to taste
Maldon salt: to taste
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Eggs: 4
Breadcrumbs: 3 ⅓cups(400 g)
Peanut seed oil: 8 ½cups(2 l)
Whole milk: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 0.9cup(200 g)
Garlic: 5cloves
Fine salt: to taste
Mayonnaise: 4tbsp(60 g)
Chili paste: 1tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the breaded eggplant cutlets, start with the aioli sauce: peel the garlic cloves and remove the central core . Pour 100 ml of milk into a saucepan along with the garlic cloves .
Bring to a boil, then drain them . Repeat this procedure 2 more times, replacing the milk each time. Finally, transfer the cloves to a jug , add the remaining 100 ml of milk , and salt.
Start blending with an immersion blender, pouring the oil in a thin stream until you achieve a mayonnaise-like consistency . Transfer the sauce to a piping bag and store in the fridge. Now move on to the chili sauce: in a bowl, combine the mayonnaise with the chili paste .
Mix , transfer to another piping bag , and store in the fridge. Now move on to the eggplants: remove the side ends, then cut them into 4 slices, keeping them attached to the stem .
Open the slices like a fan and gently flatten them with a meat pounder . First, coat them in flour .
Then dip them in the beaten egg and finally cover them with breadcrumbs . Now heat the vegetable oil in a saucepan for frying, and once it reaches 356°F, immerse the breaded eggplant .
Fry for about 7 minutes per side , until golden. Drain on absorbent paper to remove the excess oil .
Plate the fried eggplants and season with Maldon salt flakes, then with dollops of aioli sauce and chili sauce. Complete with capers and fresh basil leaves: your eggplant cutlets are ready to be served !
We recommend consuming the eggplant cutlets immediately.
The sauces can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
To make the aioli sauce, you can replace the milk with water, but keep in mind that the final result will differ in terms of flavor.

