name:
Coxinha (Brazilian arancini)
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 10.6oz(300 g)
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Onions: 1
Tomato purée: 2spoonfuls
Garlic: 2cloves
Parsley: 2spoonfuls- to chop
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Chicken broth: 1.67cups(400 ml)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(125 ml)
Butter: 1.75oz(50 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Whole milk: ⅓cup(75 ml)
Breadcrumbs: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the coxinhas, cut the chicken breast into bite-sized pieces . Peel the onion and cut it in half, wash and peel the carrot and cut it into chunks, and finally wash and cut the celery into chunks as well ; place the chicken and vegetables in a tall pan, add two bay leaves, a clove of garlic and
pour water until the ingredients are covered and add salt. Boil the chicken until the meat is white and tender. Once the chicken is boiled, drain the chicken pieces (making sure to save the broth which will be used for the dough that surrounds the filling) and finely chop them with a knife or with the help of a blender (5-6).
Sauté a crushed or finely chopped clove of garlic in two tablespoons of oil and let the oil infuse. Add the chopped half onion , let it wilt for at least 10 minutes, and then add the tomato sauce , cook for a few minutes, and incorporate the chopped chicken . Salt and pepper to taste.
Flavor the filling with parsley and set it aside to cool. Now focus on the dough that will wrap the filling: melt the butter in a pan. Add the previously obtained chicken broth . Pour in the room-temperature milk and bring everything to a boil.
Add the sifted flour and stir quickly with a whisk while everything continues to cook on low heat until the flour has absorbed the liquids and the dough detaches from the pot and becomes compact . Let cool slightly and finally combine the egg yolk into the dough .
Now you can shape the coxinhas: take a portion of dough the size of the palm of your hand, about 1.7 oz . With the thumb of the other hand, create a cavity in the center and fill it with the filling, about 0.35 oz . Close the ball by wrapping the filling with the dough and shape it into a drumstick .
The ingredients listed are sufficient for 14 coxinhas . Now prepare a batter with the milk and sifted flour and place the breadcrumbs in a large bowl. Coat each coxinha first in the batter and then in the breadcrumbs .
When the oil is hot (to check if the oil has reached the right temperature, use the toothpick test: immerse the tip of a toothpick in the oil, if you see it start to fry, then it is hot enough) begin frying the coxinhas one by one for a few minutes (22-23), or until the breading is golden. Drain them and let them drip on a tray lined with absorbent paper . Serve the coxinhas hot.
You can prepare the coxinhas in advance and then reheat them in the oven before serving. Freezing the coxinhas is not recommended.
Tradition has it that this recipe was born in the 19th century from an ingenious idea of the cook of the Brazilian imperial family, who had to prepare the favorite dish of the young heir to the throne, son of Princess Isabel and Gaston d'Orléans, which was fried chicken legs, and having few legs available in the pantry, he invented this fried dough resembling a chicken leg. In this way, the cook transformed a whole chicken into many fake fried legs that were very appreciated by all members of the royal family.
For absolutely perfect street food, skewer a stick or toothpick through the narrow end and wrap the coxinha with aluminum foil, as if it were a stick: finger-licking good!

