name:
Toasted bread slices
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Manitoba flour: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)- at room temperature
Whole milk: ½cup(125 ml)
Eggs: 2
Egg yolks: 1
Brewer's yeast: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Water: 3.4tbsp(50 ml)
Sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note more than 80 minutes of rising

instructions:
To prepare the toasted bread slices, take the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle, sift the flours , dissolve the yeast in warm water (alternatively you can use 15 g of fresh yeast) and add it to the flours ; if you don't have a stand mixer, you can knead by hand, initially using a fork to mix the flours with the liquids).
Add the beaten eggs , the sugar , and the warmed milk . Knead well for about 15 minutes until you get a homogeneous mixture. If necessary, stop and turn the dough over several times.
At this point, replace the paddle with the hook and add the salt and soft butter, one cube at a time , waiting for the first one to be absorbed before adding the next one. When the dough is smooth and elastic (it will take about 20 minutes)
form a ball , place it in a bowl covered with plastic wrap for 30 minutes in the oven turned off (the temperature should be about 77°F-79°F). After this time, line a loaf pan measuring 11x4.3 in (h 2.8 in) with parchment paper , lightly butter the pan and cut a rectangle of 11x4.3 in to cover the bottom of the pan, and a strip 2.8 in high and 30.7 in long for the walls, making sure the parchment paper adheres well to the pan to avoid wrinkles. Take the dough again, flatten it with your hands and roll it onto itself. Place it in the pan and let it rise in the turned-off oven with the light on
until the dough reaches the edge of the pan (it will take about 50 minutes). Finally, brush the dough with beaten egg and bake in a preheated oven at 356°F for 40 minutes. Let it cool slightly, remove from the pan, and let it cool on a wire rack .
Once cool, cut slices about 1/4 inch (or 1/2 inch, depending on taste), place them on a baking tray covered with parchment paper and bake in a preheated static oven at 302°F for about 1 hour, or in a fan oven at 266°F for 45 minutes or until they are dried and have reached a brown color . Remove from the oven, let them cool on a wire rack. Your toasted bread slices are ready to be enjoyed with your preferred jams!
If stored well, the toasted bread slices can last more than a week. Allow them to cool well and then place them in a cool, dry place in a tin box.
The toasted bread slices originated as simple toasted bread slices consumed on ships due to being a long-lasting, highly nutritious, and digestible product, which is why they were called "health biscuits."
These toasted bread slices are spectacular, I swear: I'm crazy about them, and occasionally I also flavor them with flax or sesame seeds, delicious!!

