name:
Flapjack
ingredients:
Rolled oats: 4.7cups(400 g)
Golden syrup: 0.3cup(125 g)
Whole cane sugar: 0.625cup(125 g)
Butter: 4.5oz(125 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 36 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the flapjack, put the butter cut into pieces, brown sugar , salt, and golden syrup in a large pan and heat everything over low heat (without bringing to a boil), stirring with a spoon , until the sugar is completely dissolved. Once you have a mixture with an amber color and fairly liquid consistency, turn off the heat and let it cool. If you can't find golden syrup, you can use the same amount of maple syrup or acacia honey, although the result will not be optimal.
In a large bowl, pour the oat flakes and add the syrup mixture prepared earlier . Mix well so that the oat flakes absorb the syrup, resulting in a moist and sticky mixture. Finally, add the chocolate chips . Now prepare the tray: take a rectangular tray measuring 8 inches wide x 12 inches long and 1 inch in height, butter the bottom and sides using a kitchen brush or simply with your hands (in this way the parchment paper will adhere better).
Cut a piece of parchment paper 10 inches x 14 inches so that it can completely line the inside of the pan, and make it adhere to the bottom and sides without creating folds . Pour the obtained mixture into the pan , taking care to press it well and flatten the surface with the help of a spatula , then bake in a preheated static oven at 300°F for about 40 minutes (or in a convection oven at 265°F for 30 minutes).
When the surface is golden brown, remove the pan from the oven, let it cool for 15-20 minutes, then remove the mixture from the pan, place it on a cutting board , and cut it into rectangles of 2.75 inches x 1 inch (11-12). The flapjacks are ready to be enjoyed!
You can store flapjacks in a tin box for a week. Freezing is not recommended.
According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the term flapjack was used starting from the 17th century, initially to refer to a dessert similar to pancakes, a meaning it still holds in the United States. However, from the 1930s, the name flapjack started being used to describe an oat-based dessert. The etymology of the term flapjack is unclear, with the word being composed of the verb 'flap,' meaning to agitate as in flipping (related to the action of flipping a pancake during cooking), and 'jack,' a name of which the meaning in this specific context is unknown.
The truly indulgent ones, those who do not fear a chocolate overdose, could (hypothetically speaking) cover the flapjack with dark chocolate melted in a bain-marie, let it cool, and only then cut the rectangles. Hypothetically, of course...

