name:
Sweet Campanian Taralli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Cornstarch: 6tbsp(50 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: 6.3tbsp(90 g)- cold
Eggs: 2- medium
Baking powder: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Lemon peel: 1- grated

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the sweet Campanian taralli, first place the flour in a mixer with the butter, well chilled, cut into pieces , and blend the ingredients to obtain a sandy mixture . If you don't have a mixer, work the flour and butter by hand until you get a crumbly mixture.
In a bowl, mix the other ingredients: cornstarch (you can use potato starch as an alternative) and sugar , then add the grated zest of a lemon (or an orange, according to your taste), the baking powder , and finally the two eggs .
Pour the sandy butter and flour mixture and start kneading by hand to gather and compact all the ingredients into a single dough .
Transfer the dough to a pastry board and knead it by hand until you get a smooth and compact dough ; cover the dough with plastic wrap and leave it in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes (cold dough is easier to work with). After this time, take the dough and divide it into larger pieces to shape into a log ,
from which you'll cut pieces of dough weighing about 0.5 oz each . Lightly flour the work surface and shape each piece, first forming a cord about 4 inches long and then joining the two ends to get a ring with a diameter of about 1.75 inches .
Overlap the ends and press slightly to seal and close the taralli . Continue until you finish the dough and place the taralli on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, well spaced apart . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 17-20 minutes (if convection, 320°F for 12-15 minutes), until golden. Take out the sweet Campanian taralli , let them cool on a rack, and enjoy your snack!
Store the sweet Campanian taralli in a glass jar or tin box for about a week. You can freeze the shortcrust pastry of the taralli and then thaw it in the fridge and use it when needed. Alternatively, you can shape the taralli, freeze them first on a tray, and then gather them in a bag. When you want to eat them, thaw them in the fridge, already placed on the baking sheet, and bake them.
The secret to beautiful taralli? Work the dough when it's cold: this way, you'll be able to achieve perfectly round shapes. 
As for customizations, if you don't like lemon zest, you can substitute it with orange zest, and in both cases, you can flavor the dough with endless wonders: vanilla seeds or vanillin, a tablespoon of sambuca, rum, or your preferred liqueur.

