name:
Nougat cheesecake
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 7oz(200 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Fresh cheese: 1cup(250 g)- spreadable
White nougat: 9oz(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 2.75oz(80 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(12 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note plus approximately 3 hours for the cake to set in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the nougat cheesecake, start by preparing the base: blend the biscuits in a food processor , transfer them to a bowl, add the melted butter and mix the ingredients well with a spoon to combine .
Line a 9-inch springform pan (see how to do it with the Cooking School: lining a cake pan) and place the biscuit and butter mixture inside, distributing it evenly and compacting it well with the back of a spoon . Place the biscuit base in the refrigerator to rest for 30 minutes (or in the freezer for 10 minutes). Now prepare the cream: soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for 10 minutes .
When the gelatin is softened, squeeze it well and dissolve it in 2 tablespoons of hot cream, taken from the total amount . Soften the cream cheese in a bowl with the help of a wooden spoon ; if necessary, soften the fresh cheese with a splash of cream taken from the total amount. Now add the dissolved gelatin in cream and mix.
Chop the nougat into pieces with a knife or in a food processor, which you have kept in the freezer overnight (set aside some larger pieces for the final decoration) and add this to the cream cheese as well ; if it is too thick, add a little more cream. Whip, with the whisk of a stand mixer or with the beaters of an electric mixer, the remaining about 1 cup of cream with a tablespoon of powdered sugar (see the How to Whip Cream ) and
incorporate it into the cream, gently stirring with a spatula from bottom to top . Finally, add the chocolate chips (add them only at the end; otherwise, they will melt) and mix well for the last time the cream. Take back the biscuit base and
pour the cream over it , leveling the surface well with the back of a spoon . Place the cheesecake in the refrigerator to set for at least 3 hours .
After this time, remove your cheesecake from the mold and garnish it with the pieces of nougat set aside and, if you like, with caramel decorations (see how to make them with the Caramel ) placed right in the center of the cake . There you have it, the nougat cheesecake is ready to be served!
Store the nougat cheesecake, well covered, in the refrigerator for 3-4 days. You can also freeze your nougat cheesecake, whole or portioned, and then defrost it in the refrigerator as needed.
You can make the nougat cheesecake with the nougat you prefer, for example, chocolate nougat! If you want a richer cheesecake, you can add chopped hazelnuts or pistachios to the cream before pouring it into the cake pan!

