name:
Brodetto fanese
ingredients:
Extra virgin olive oil: 4 ¾tbsp(70 ml)
White wine vinegar: 4tbsp(60 ml)
Water: 2.1cups(500 ml)- (or fish stock)
Onions: 1.8oz(50 g)- to chop
Garlic: 1clove
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Tomatoes: 2.8oz(80 g)- double
Octopi: 7.1oz(200 g)
Calamari (squid): 7oz(200 g)
Scampi: 0.5lb(200 g)
Shrimps: 7oz(200 g)
Seafood: 10.6oz(300 g)- dogfish
Monkfish: 8.8oz(250 g)
Squills (Mantis shrimps): 7.1oz(200 g)
Gurnard: 5.3oz(150 g)
Hake: 7oz(200 g)
Sole: 10.6oz(300 g)
Red mullet: 5.3oz(150 g)
Tuscan bread: 6slices

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the Fano-style fish stew, start by cleaning the fish. Clean the cuttlefish by separating the head from the body , gut them , and if they are small, leave them whole, otherwise cut them into chunks. Clean the squid in the same manner and cut the body into rings .
Keep the gurnard whole and gut it under running water ; Do the same with the hake: open the belly and gut it . Then remove the head ; if very large, cut it into chunks, otherwise leave it whole.
Gut the red mullet as well and leave them whole . Now cut both the smoothhound and the monkfish, which are already cleaned in the market, into chunks (8-9).
Clean the sole: cut the skin from the tail with a knife and pull it off with force from both sides. Use scissors to remove the outer bones . For further details, see the Cooking School: cleaning sole.
Finally, take care of the crustaceans: remove the legs from the mantis shrimp and cut them down the middle from the head (13-14). Do the same with the scampi if you want, making it easier to consume once cooked. At this point, proceed with the stew: chop the onion and
sauté it in plenty of oil with a clove of garlic, which you can leave whole or crush , over very low heat for 15 minutes. Deglaze with white wine vinegar (or another mild vinegar) , and once the vinegar has evaporated, add the tomato paste .
Now that the base is ready, you can add the fish, starting with those that require a longer cooking time: the cuttlefish and squid , which you will sauté for about 10 minutes. Then add the hot water (or fish stock or Shellfish Stock if available) and cover with a lid .
Now add the main fish to the pot: the gurnard , the smoothhound , the monkfish , and finally the hake. Do not stir anymore with a wooden spoon from now on but only shake the pot by the handles.
Finally, add the crustaceans and red mullets, which require little cooking time: the scampi , the mantis shrimp , and the whole red mullets ,
the soles , and lastly the prawns . Cook for another 10 minutes at most, then salt and pepper , and voilà, the Fano-style fish stew is ready! Serve it with toasted bread croutons or slices of fresh bread!
We recommend consuming the stew as soon as it is made. If there's any left over, you can store it in the fridge for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
For an even more special stew, personalize it! For example, prepare it with seasonal fish or, if you're fortunate enough to live near the sea, with those typical of your coasts. And finally, like Grandpa Olimpio did, garnish it with a generous handful of freshly chopped parsley!

