name:
Fava Bean Falafel
ingredients:
Dried fava beans: 3cups(500 g)
Water: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(20 g)
Parsley: 2tsp(10 g)
Onions: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Cardamon: 1tsp(2 g)
Baking soda: ½tsp(2 g)
Cumin: ½tsp(1 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note plus 12 hours of soaking the fava beans

instructions:
To prepare fava bean falafel, place the fava beans in a bowl with cold water and let them soak overnight. The next day, drain them in a colander and dry them with a cloth . Place the beans in a mixer, add the garlic clove
the onion cut into coarse slices and the parsley , blend the beans with the seasonings until you get a homogeneous and well-compacted mixture.
Dissolve the baking soda in water and add this to the mixture as well . Season the mixture with the spice mix prepared with cumin and cardamom
Finally, add the flour and blend for a few more moments. You should get a mixture that is not too smooth but grainy . Heat the oil and bring it to a maximum temperature of 356°F (if you prefer, you can fry the falafel in a fryer). Baking is not recommended as, without breading, the falafel risk drying out. Use a teaspoon to scoop the mixture, pull back the lever on the special falafel tool (if you don't have the tool, you can form slightly flattened patties into disks); fill the cavity until a small dome is formed , pressing well with the teaspoon (each falafel weighs about 1 oz).
Release the lever and drop the falafel directly into the hot oil , turning the falafel occasionally and removing them when they are golden . Drain them on a sheet of absorbent paper and salt them lightly, if you prefer. Serve your hot fava bean falafel!
Consume the fava bean falafel immediately or store them for up to one day in the refrigerator, warming them up before serving.
Everyone should taste falafel at least once, prepared according to the traditional recipe... they are spectacular! From the second time on, you are authorized to vary and adapt them to your taste, for example, by replacing cumin and cardamom with other spices (like nutmeg) or enriching the mixture with some fresh mint leaves.
If you're looking for a lighter version, try the Oven-baked falafel recipe!
The origin of the word falafel is not certain; some sources trace it back to the Arabic term falāfil, which means “pepper.” In the Coptic language, pha la phel means “of many beans.” In Aramaic, the word filfl exists, meaning “small round thing.” The etymology of this word is, therefore, very controversial, but it is certain that the recipe has always existed, with some tracing its origins back to the pharaonic age. The term falafel is used worldwide; only in Egypt are falafel also known as “ta'amiya.”

