name:
Steamed Sea Bass with Vegetables
ingredients:
Sea bass (sea bass): 3- gutted
Carrots: 1.4cups(170 g)
Green beans: 1 ¼cup(160 g)
Zucchini: 1 ¼cup(160 g)
Potatoes: 5.6oz(160 g)
Black olives: 20- pitted
Dill: 20sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Dry white wine: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Ground black pepper: 6
Fresh scallion: 2- small
Leeks: ½
Butter: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)
Basil: 5leaves

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare steamed sea bass with vegetables, first take care of the water for your steamer. Take a pot, pour in the water, and flavor it with wine and peppercorns ; clean the spring onions and remove the stems without discarding them ; also clean the leek, removing the greener part and peeling the outer leaves, cut it in half and add one part to the water along with the spring onions . Bring everything to a boil.
In the meantime, prepare the vegetables that will accompany the sea bass: clean 2 carrots, the zucchini, and the potatoes and cut everything into sticks , for more details on cutting vegetables click here (How to cut vegetables). Remove the ends of the green beans and place the vegetables in the steamer: first the carrots and potatoes , cook for a couple of minutes and
also add the green beans and lastly the zucchini , then salt and pepper .
Cover with a lid and let cook until the vegetables are soft: it will take about 10 minutes. In the meantime, take care of the fish, take the sea bass already gutted and scaled; if you have an uncleaned sea bass, see the Cooking School card How to clean the sea bream (How to clean sea bream), you should get about 28 oz of cleaned sea bass. Rinse it under running water, then place it on a cutting board, remove the fins, and cut into round sections . Remove the central bone from each section, not the skin, and open them well, being careful not to break them .
With a special tweezer, remove all the bones present in the flesh, run your fingertip over the fish surface to find them more easily . Then take the remaining carrot and with the help of a mandoline, slice it into "ribbons," that is, very thin slices lengthwise . Place the slices obtained on each piece of fish that you have previously salted on the surface,
on top of the carrot, place a sprig of dill or chopped parsley , fold the ends of the sections towards the center, close the small medallion obtained with a piece of kitchen twine and secure the twine with a double knot. Once all the medallions are obtained, place a pitted black olive in the center of each one .
When the vegetables are cooked , remove them from the steamer and place the sea bass medallions in their place , pepper, and cook for 10 minutes, covering with a lid. In a small saucepan, pour a bit of water, bring to a boil, and blanch the spring onion stems you set aside for a couple of minutes .
Once ready, drain and chop them together with the basil and add them to the butter, which you have softened in a double boiler, then with an immersion blender, blend everything until you get a homogeneous sauce (23-24), adjust the salt and remove from the double boiler.
Now that all the ingredients are ready, it's time to assemble the dish: arrange the vegetables on a serving plate (we created a sort of decoration by crossing the vegetable sticks with each other) and place the sea bass medallions next to them . Dress the sea bass and vegetables with a drizzle of basil and spring onion sauce and... here is your steamed sea bass with vegetables ready !
You can store the steamed sea bass and vegetables with their seasoning in the refrigerator for no more than one day, in an airtight container. If the sea bass has not been previously frozen, once ready, you can also freeze it and store it in the freezer for a couple of weeks.
If you want to go overboard with lightness, you can season the sea bass with just the classic and immortal drizzle of oil. If you go crazy for this recipe to the point of wanting to prepare it every day, but those who eat with you can't take it anymore, know that the same procedure will allow you to propose splendid rolls of sea bream or salmon.

