name:
Reblochon Fondue
ingredients:
New potatoes: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Reblochon cheese: 1.1lbs(500 g)- whole form
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the Reblochon fondue, start by cutting the new potatoes with the skin into four parts (1-2) to obtain wedges. Line a baking tray with parchment paper, place the potato wedges on the tray ,
season the potatoes with a drizzle of olive oil , salt , black pepper
and finally, scent the wedges with fresh rosemary . Now the potatoes prepared this way are ready to be baked in the oven for 15 minutes at 392°F (200°C) in a preheated static mode oven. Bake the potatoes until they are golden and have formed a light crust on the surface .
Now prepare the Reblochon fondue: cut the cheese into 4 large slices, remove the outer crust from each slice , place the slices in a round terrine (ceramic or terracotta) that can hold the Reblochon form, which measures about 5-5.5 inches (13-14 cm) in diameter and 1.4 inches (3.5 cm) thick . Bake the terrine in a preheated oven at 392°F (200°C) for about 25/30 minutes, the fondue will be ready when the cheese is completely melted . Serve the Reblochon fondue hot with the roasted potatoes, and if you like, you can also accompany the dish with a platter of cold cuts.
It is recommended to consume the Reblochon fondue hot, immediately. It is not recommended to store in the refrigerator or freezer.
Reblochon is produced in round shapes and is recognizable by its saffron-colored crust, which has a white mold called mousse on its surface. The paste is yellow and creamy. Originating from Savoy, Reblochon has been produced since the 13th century and in 1958 obtained the Appellation d'Origine Contrôlée. The origin of Reblochon production is linked to a fraud perpetrated by shepherds against landowners: the shepherds, having to go to the milk weighing at the mountain pastures, would not completely milk the cows and would finish milking after the weighing, with the milk thus obtained, they produced this excellent cheese. In Italy, there is a similar cheese widespread in Val di Susa and Canavese.
Those who, like me, have lived in the mountains, cannot help but be moved by this recipe. Reblochon fondue is delicious, but it is equally exquisite, should you not find this cheese, with taleggio (stronger version) or brie (milder version). The choice is yours!

