name:
Chateaubriand with Béarnaise sauce
ingredients:
Beef filet: 1.1lbs(500 g)- Chateaubriand
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Egg yolks: 4
Clarified butter: 1 ⅓cup(300 g)
Shallot: 1
Water: 2.4oz(70 ml)
Dry white wine: 1.7oz(50 ml)
White wine vinegar: 2tsp(10 ml)
Tarragon: to taste- to chop
White pepper: to taste- minced
Lemon juice: to taste- (optional)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note plus 2 hours for marinating the meat

instructions:
To prepare the chateaubriand with béarnaise sauce, first take the piece of beef and trim it as needed ; you can also ask your trusted butcher to perform this operation. Place the chateaubriand in a large baking dish and coat it with extra virgin olive oil ; then add some salt and
pepper then massage the meat so that it is evenly covered with the seasonings . Cover the baking dish with plastic wrap and let the chateaubriand marinate in the refrigerator for a couple of hours .
While the meat rests, prepare the béarnaise sauce ( Bearnaise sauce is the detailed recipe): in a saucepan, pour the water, white wine, and vinegar, season with white pepper and salt, and add the shallot and half of the chopped tarragon . Bring the mixture to a boil, lower the heat, and cook until reduced to a third; then cool the infusion and strain the liquids through a sieve . In a bowl, place the 4 egg yolks and start whisking them with a hand whisk or electric mixer, gradually incorporating the infusion .
When the mixture is frothy, place the bowl over a pot of boiling water, cooking the sauce in a double boiler, and now pour the warm clarified butter into the yolk mixture and continue whisking until you obtain a smooth, soft, and homogeneous mixture, similar to the consistency of zabaglione, which, when poured, forms ribbons. Remove the sauce from the heat and transfer it to a bowl; adjust with salt, pepper, and add, if desired, a few drops of lemon juice and finally the remaining tarragon . Stir to combine all the flavors, and the béarnaise sauce will be ready . Keep it warm with a sheet of plastic wrap in contact.
Now take back the chateaubriand: in a large non-stick pan, melt the butter (you can also use clarified butter), and when it is very hot, place the filet and cook it quickly over high heat on both sides to prevent the juices from escaping, then turn the meat . When a nice golden crust has formed on the outside, continue cooking for another 5-8 minutes, basting the filet with the melted butter . The chateaubriand must be well-cooked on the outside while remaining tender and rare on the inside: the cooking should be quick, about 10-15 minutes.
Turn off the heat and let the meat rest so the juices can redistribute inside . Now all that remains is to slice the filet with a sharp meat knife, obtaining slices about 1/2 inch thick and placing the chateaubriand on a serving plate over a bed of fresh greens! Your chateaubriand is ready to be served: place the béarnaise sauce directly over the meat or serve it in a separate bowl.
Consume the chateaubriand with béarnaise sauce immediately! It is not recommended to store it in the refrigerator or freezer.
The name Chateaubriand seems to be linked to the 19th-century French writer François-René de Chateaubriand, whose personal chef, Montmirail, first prepared and dedicated the preparation of Chateaubriand with a homonymous sauce based on white wine and brown meat stock, flavored with tarragon. However, there is another version that attributes the name to the Loire city of Chateaubriant, famous for its highly prized cattle farming.
When I talk about meat with friends, we always end up discussing the cooking: some want it rare, others want it well-done and charred. When in doubt, I go for the classic "medium" cook, which is what I recommend. Of course, if you prefer well-done meat, just extend the times indicated in the recipe. If, on the other hand, you are among those who seek the perfect cooking (and own a food thermometer), you can pierce the filet: the temperature at the point farthest from the surface should be between 122°F and 140°F. If you are addicted to the oven, no problem: sear the meat in a pan, browning it well on all sides, insert it in the oven already hot at 480°F for 5-6 minutes, turning it halfway through cooking.

