name:
How to do blind baking
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: 0.55cup(125 g)- cold
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Fine salt: 1pinch
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)- cold
Water: 4 ¾tbsp(70 ml)- iced
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus 30 minutes of resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
First, roll out the shortcrust pastry (click Shortcrust pastry for the recipe) if you're preparing a sweet dish, or the brisée pastry (click Easy Shortcrust Pastry for the recipe) for savory preparations. Place the shortcrust dough on a lightly floured work surface and roll it out with a rolling pin to a very thin thickness, about 1/8 inch , then wrap it around the floured rolling pin and place it on a non-stick tart pan . We used a 9.5-inch pan for this amount of shortcrust pastry.
Make sure it adheres well to the tart pan . To assist you with this operation, you can take a leftover piece of dough, shape it into a ball, wrap it with cling film , and use it to press the pastry perfectly, applying light pressure on both the edges and the bottom .
Then, use the rolling pin to press down on the upper edges of the tart pan to remove the excess shortcrust pastry (7-8); you can also cut away the excess pastry with a small knife. At this point, refrigerate the shortcrust pastry for 30 minutes, or 15 minutes in the freezer, to firm it up and help it maintain its shape. Remove the pan from the refrigerator and prick the bottom of the pastry with a fork , but be careful not to go too deep, or you risk piercing the bottom and the filling might leak out.
Place the pan on parchment paper and draw the circumference of the pan with a pencil , then cut it out and place the resulting circle inside the pan
and arrange it to cover the sides as well . Then place the dried legumes inside and press them well into the pan : the beans should reach the edges to evenly distribute the oven's heat across the entire surface.
Then bake the pastry for about 15-20 minutes in a preheated oven at 392°F . Remove it from the oven, and take out the legumes and parchment paper . At this point, the edges will be nicely golden but not the bottom . Bake again for 10-15 minutes at the same temperature so that the pastry dries out and becomes golden.
Remove the base from the oven and brush it with beaten egg on the base to isolate the filling (20-21). Return it to the hot oven for a couple of minutes, so the egg forms a sealing layer. Now your base is ready to be filled with pastry cream or jam! Now that the base is ready, why not try this delicious Fruit tart , or a delightful Quiche Lorraine
The base for sweet or savory pies, once baked, can be stored for up to two days before being filled. Keep it under a glass dome in a cool, dry place.
The legumes used for blind baking cannot be cooked and eaten, but they can be stored and reused for other blind baking. If you don't have dried legumes, you can place a smaller diameter pan on top of the rolled-out pastry.

