name:
Spring cones
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1lb(460 g)
Eggs: 1
Cream cheese: ½cup(130 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 2.1oz(60 g)
Basil: 2leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cream cheese: 0.8cup(190 g)
Mortadella: 4.25oz(120 g)
Pistachios: ⅓cup(40 g)
Fresh liquid cream: to taste- (optional)
Zucchini: ½
Tomatoes: 1
Celery: 1rib
Green beans: 2.5oz(70 g)
Carrots: 1
Parsley: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 21 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the spring cones, start by flouring the work surface, then slightly roll out the puff pastry with a rolling pin . Once rolled out, cut the puff pastry into strips about half an inch wide . Brush the obtained strips with beaten egg .
Wrap the puff pastry strip around the special cone for cannoli, starting to wrap the strip from the pointed part of the spindle and proceeding towards the wider part . It is important that the side of the pastry that was brushed with the egg does not come into contact with the cone but remains exposed so that the egg acts as a glue between the overlapping puff pastry parts. After completing this work, place the cones on a baking sheet covered with parchment paper and bake in a preheated oven at 356°F (or 320°F if using a convection oven) for 20 minutes (or about 15 minutes if using a convection oven) . When the cones are golden, take them out of the oven . While your cones cool down, prepare the creams to fill them.
To prepare the cooked ham cream, put the cooked ham, cream cheese , and basil in a mixer and blend until you get a thick cream (it is possible to add a splash of cream to make the sauce creamier). Once the cream is obtained, adjust the salt and pepper, blend everything again until you get the right consistency . Your cooked ham cream is ready, then move on to preparing the mortadella and pistachio-based cream.
To prepare the mortadella and pistachio cream, put the mortadella, cream cheese, shelled pistachios, and a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil in the mixer. Blend until you get a thick cream (it is possible to add a splash of cream to make the sauce creamier) . The creams are ready, put them in two different pastry bags and fill your cones (if you don't have pastry bags, you can take a freezer bag, fill it with cream, cut a corner of the bag to let the cream out, and fill the cones).
Once the cones are filled, prepare the vegetables to decorate them. Cut the carrots and celery into rather thin strips, while cut the tomato into small cubes .
Also, cut the zucchini into small cubes and blanch the obtained cubes . Take the green beans, clean them by trimming the ends , and blanch them .
Decorate your cones to your liking with the cubes of tomato and zucchini and finish with a basil leaf , or inserting the celery and carrot sticks into the cream and decorating with a mint leaf . Your spring cones are ready, keep them in the refrigerator until it's time to serve them.
Spring cones can be stored in the fridge covered with plastic wrap or placed in an airtight container for up to 2 days, after which they will lose their crunchiness. Puff pastry cones can be prepared in advance, stored for 1-2 days covered with plastic wrap or closed in an airtight container in a cool, dry place (not in the fridge because they would absorb moisture and lose their crunchiness), then filled as needed. If there is any leftover cream, it can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days.
Empty fridge? No problem: spring cones are ideal because they lend themselves to a thousand substitutions. For example, you can use various cheeses, like crescenza or ricotta, and other vegetables to your liking. The real gem, however, is that you can also prepare them using sandwich bread (without crusts) instead of puff pastry: I know, you're used to thinking of it only as sandwiches, but you just need to roll it out with a rolling pin until it's very thin, then fix it around the cone and leave it like that for a few hours. If necessary, to make it stick better, you can moisten it with a little water.

