name:
Panettone with figs and almonds
ingredients:
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Acacia honey: 3tbsp(40 g)
Thyme: 3sprigs
Vanilla bean: 1- the seeds
Manitoba flour: ⅓cup(40 g)
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.04oz(1 g)
Manitoba flour: 1cup(120 g)
Egg yolks: 1tbsp(15 g)- (approximately 1 from a medium egg)
Brown sugar: 2 ¼tsp(10 g)
Water: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.125oz(5 g)
Egg yolks: 3tbsp(45 g)- (from about 3 medium eggs)
Brown sugar: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Water: 3tsp(15 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 5
Manitoba flour: 4cups(500 g)
Egg yolks: 5.3tbsp(75 g)- (from about 5 medium eggs)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2 medium)
Brown sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(220 g)
Butter: 6tbsp(85 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¼tsp(7 g)
Figs: 10.5oz(300 g)- dried
Almonds: 0.7cup(100 g)
Butter: to taste- flakes

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: High
Note + 17 hours of leavening and 1 night of cooling

instructions:
To prepare the panettone with figs and almonds, start with the aroma: in a bowl, pour the honey, pluck the thyme leaves, and then scent with the seeds from the vanilla pod extracted with a knife , pour in the melted butter while still warm , finally mix everything well with a fork .
Cover with plastic wrap and leave at room temperature . Meanwhile, pour the flour into a bowl, crumble the yeast over it , and add the water at room temperature .
Knead briefly with a spoon until you get a sort of soft dough , cover with plastic wrap, and let it rise at room temperature for 1 hour . After that, place the bowl in the fridge and let it mature for a maximum of 8-12 hours .
The next day, pour the yeast into a jug of water at room temperature , dissolve it with the help of a fork , and start the dough. In a stand mixer equipped with a hook, pour the flour, the starter ,
then the water with the yeast , the sugar , and turn on the hook for 1 minute at medium speed .
With the hook still running, add the yolk and work for another minute . Then incorporate the butter, one piece at a time, and work for 5-8 minutes or until the dough is smooth and compact . It should also cling to the hook .
Shape the dough into a sphere by pulling the parts underneath towards the center . Place the ball in a bowl and cover with plastic wrap. Place the bowl in the turned-off oven with a pot of boiling water for an hour .
As soon as the dough has doubled, you can move on to the second dough. Dissolve the yeast in water at room temperature and pour it into the stand mixer, still equipped with the hook, and in which you have already poured the flour . Add the sugar ,
then the risen dough and run the mixer for 2 minutes at medium speed. With the hook still running, add the yolks and continue to work until they are fully incorporated . Finally, add the butter, a few pieces at a time , both always at room temperature
and work for about 5-6 minutes. The dough is ready as soon as it clings to the hook and is smooth and elastic . Shape the dough into a ball again and transfer it to a bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest in the turned-off oven with a pot of hot water for an hour .
It's time to work on the third and final dough. Chop the dried figs and place them in a bowl, cover them with room temperature water and let them soak , then coarsely chop the almonds with a knife .
Now that you have everything you need, put the flour and room temperature cream in the stand mixer with a hook , add the sugar and then the risen dough .
Run the mixer for 3-4 minutes at medium speed and then add the yolks and then the eggs , continue mixing until fully absorbed. It will take a while for them to blend with the rest of the dough. Then pour in the butter at room temperature cut into pieces and let them incorporate well ,
season with salt and finally with the panettone aroma, it will take a few minutes to incorporate properly . The dough is ready as soon as it appears soft and smooth and is clinging to the hook .
You can add the chopped almonds and well-drained figs . Let the machine work for 3 minutes before removing the hook and moving to the work surface to briefly knead the mixture by hand: there is no need to grease the surface because the dough will release a lot of fat .
Divide the dough into two pieces of about 1150 g each . As before, shape both into spheres and then transfer them into low and wide cardboard molds for 1kg panettone . Let them rise for 3 hours in the turned-off oven with a pot of boiling water .
After the necessary time for the panettone to rise , leave them out for 10 minutes. Move them onto a wire rack and score the surface with a razor blade, forming a cross . Open the sides wide with the cutter while keeping the edges raised .
Place 4 small pieces of butter at the base of each end and then bring them back towards the center , thus closing the cross .
Your panettone are ready for baking: bake them in a preheated oven at 375°F, in static mode, for about 75 minutes. To prevent the surface of the cake from burning, place another baking tray on the highest shelf, thus preventing the coils from browning the top of the panettone . To ensure that the panettone are cooked, use a kitchen thermometer and make sure that the center has reached 197°F. Once baked, skewer them and let them hang upside down overnight . Your panettone with dried fruits are ready, just slice them and enjoy !
Panettone with dried fruits, like any other leavened product, has strict rules to follow to ensure a high-quality product.
1) Let's start with the basic rule that always applies and that you surely already know, use first-class raw materials that can guarantee us fragrance, flavor, and not least, color.
2) Cold ingredients from the fridge must always be at room temperature, this way you will be sure to incorporate them into the rest of the dough without problems.
3) Watch the temperatures! The air chamber needed for dough maturation must always be at a controlled temperature around 77°F-82°F, but it is also useful to have the right level of humidity. For this reason, we recommend keeping the doughs closed in the oven with a pot of hot water. Just bring the water to a boil and then put the container immediately inside the oven.
4) It is not advisable to reduce the indicated quantities or replace the fresh brewer's yeast with dry yeast as the quantities do not lend themselves to these changes.
5) Cooking times may vary from oven to oven, so it's important to consider the time we suggest as indicative. To prove that the cake is actually cooked, just insert a kitchen thermometer and make sure that the center is at 197°F.
6) Leave the panettone upside down overnight, you will avoid the inflated mass collapsing onto itself due to the heat.
7) Brown sugar gives a caramel aroma and amber color, two elements that go perfectly in this variant. However, if you prefer, you can use the classic white sugar, in this case, just use the same quantities.
8) If you do not have another tray to place at the highest part of the oven then, you can try covering the cake after 60 minutes, do not open the oven before because the cake may collapse.
Now that you know the 8 golden rules, feel free to try making the panettone with dried fruits!
The panettone keeps for up to 3 days if stored in an airtight bag.
Any enrichment of your panettone with dried fruits is welcome. We used almonds and dried figs, but you can create the most tantalizing mixes following your taste. Some suggestions? Apricots and almonds, raisins and hazelnuts, red fruits and peanuts! You can also vary the aromatic herbs by recalling the scents of the forest with rosemary and myrtle!

