name:
Panettone skewers with two chocolate fondue
ingredients:
Panettone: 2slices- of 10.6 oz
Dark chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
White chocolate: 10.6oz(300 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(275 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the panettone skewers with two chocolate fondue, start with the dark chocolate fondue preparation. Heat a small saucepan with 5.3 fl oz of fresh liquid cream and, in the meantime, roughly chop the dark chocolate which you will place in a small bowl. Add the cream a little at a time while continuing to stir to melt the chocolate .
You should obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture which you will set aside. Then, focus on the white chocolate fondue: finely chop the second chocolate and place it in a bowl that you will set over a saucepan with gently boiling water . If possible, avoid letting the water touch the bottom of the bowl to melt the chocolate even more gently in a bain-marie.
Add 4.4 oz of room temperature cream and continue stirring to melt the chocolate until the ingredients are well combined and you have obtained a smooth and homogeneous fondue .
At this point, proceed by cutting the panettone slices into equal-sized cubes . Place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper without overlapping to ensure even cooking . Bake them in a preheated convection oven at 375°F for 8 minutes (or in a preheated static oven at 410°F for about 16 minutes). After baking, take the wooden skewers and skewer three cubes of panettone each, spacing them out slightly . Repeat the operation until all the panettone cubes are used up.
You can serve the panettone skewers with the two fondues in separate bowls alongside or decorate them directly by drizzling the white and dark chocolate fondue over them. The panettone skewers with two chocolate fondue are now ready to be brought to the festive table to delight your guests !
Panettone skewers can be stored for up to 2 days under a glass dome. It's not recommended to freeze them.
Both chocolate fondues can be stored for 2-3 days at most in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap. To reheat, you can microwave them for 1 minute, remove the bowl and stir; then repeat the operation until the fondue is fully melted and warmed.
Some variations that will tantalize adult palates: flavor the dark chocolate fondue with rum or chili pepper, while the white chocolate one with maraschino!

