name:
Mousseline cream
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1 ½cup(375 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(125 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Cornstarch: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Egg yolks: 8.1tbsp(120 g)
Sugar: 0.7cup(140 g)
Fine salt: ¼tsp(1 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Lemon peel: 1
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- fat content 82%
Orange liqueur: 1.75oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the mousseline cream, first pour the milk and cream into a saucepan. Add the lemon zest .
Also add the vanilla bean seeds and half of the sugar . Then bring to a boil over low heat. In another pot, combine the remaining sugar and previously sifted cornstarch .
Add the flour, also sifted , and a pinch of salt . Stir with the whisk, and as soon as the milk starts to boil, pour a small portion into the dry ingredients .
Mix with the whisk until you get a sort of smooth béchamel . At this point, add the egg yolks and mix with the whisk .
Pour in the remaining milk , continuing to stir with the whisk. Return to the heat and keep stirring until it thickens .
As soon as it starts to boil, turn off the heat and transfer the cream into a bowl . Then place this bowl in an ice water bath. Stir every 2-3 minutes to cool it down. When the cream is cold, heat it in the microwave or in a water bath until it reaches a temperature of 79°F.
Do the same with the butter by briefly immersing it in the water bath and stirring until it reaches a temperature of 79°F . Pour the butter into the cream and mix well with a whisk .
You should obtain a smooth cream and the butter must be completely absorbed . Now, pour the liqueur in 3 parts , continuing to stir with the whisk. You will get a smooth and shiny cream . Store in the refrigerator until use.
To enjoy it pure, you can simply place some strawberries on a plate , add the mousseline cream on top , and serve !
We recommend storing the mousseline cream in the refrigerator for up to 2-3 days.
For orange liqueur, you can use triple sec or Cointreau.

