name:
Panettone Zuccotto with Two Creams
ingredients:
Panettone: 1
Raspberry jam: 0.3cup(100 g)
Water: to taste
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Sugar: ½cup(110 g)
Dark chocolate: 2.1oz(60 g)- 72%
Type 00 flour: ⅓cup(40 g)
Egg yolks: 6
Lemon peel: 1
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste
Raspberries: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 8
Note + 2 hours of resting time

instructions:
To prepare the panettone zuccotto with two creams, start by preparing the base cream: in a saucepan, heat the milk with the grated lemon peel . Separately, in another saucepan, pour the egg yolks, sugar, and sifted flour . Stir vigorously with a whisk until you obtain a smooth and lump-free mixture.
Once the milk comes to a boil , pour a portion of it over the egg mixture and temper with the whisk. Add the remaining milk, then stir and bring to the heat . Cook the cream over low heat, stirring often, until it thickens .
Divide the cream into two equal parts in separate bowls. Add the previously chopped chocolate to one of the two and mix well . Let cool , then cover both creams with cling film and store them in the refrigerator.
Meanwhile, dilute the raspberry jam with a tablespoon of water , stir and set aside . Take the panettone and remove the top .
Cut a round slice about 0.6 inches thick. Flatten the panettone slice with a rolling pin to make it thinner and more uniform . Take a 8-inch diameter zuccotto mold and place it upside down on the slice, then cut out the crust part to obtain a perfectly round slice. Place the panettone slice inside the zuccotto mold .
Cut a second slice of panettone and make strips about 1.5 inches wide, removing the crust part . Use the obtained strips to line the edge of the zuccotto , pressing them lightly with your hands to compact everything. Moisten the panettone with the jam . Cut 2 more thinner slices, about 0.4 inches thick.
Pour the light custard inside the dome and level with a spoon . Place another thinner slice of panettone on top of the cream .
Moisten this layer with the jam as well and pour the chocolate cream on top . Level with a spoon and use the last cut-out slice of panettone to close the zuccotto .
The base should not be moistened. Trim the excess edge with a knife to level well . Cover with cling film and let cool in the refrigerator for at least a couple of hours. After the cooling time, invert the zuccotto onto a serving plate .
Unmold and garnish your panettone zuccotto with two creams with unsweetened cocoa powder and raspberries !
The panettone zuccotto with two creams can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days, wrapped with cling film.
It can be frozen.
If you prefer, you can replace the raspberries with other berries and follow the same procedure.
The leftover panettone can be cut into cubes, toasted in the oven, and served on skewers to dip into your favorite creams!

