name:
Gluten-free panettone
ingredients:
Gluten free cocoanut flour: ½cup(70 g)
Water: ¼cup(60 g)- warm
Gluten free fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(15 g)
Gluten free rice malt: 1tsp
Gluten free cocoanut flour: 2 ¼cups(280 g)
Sugar: ⅓cup(80 g)
Egg yolks: 2- (of medium eggs)
Butter: 2.5oz(70 g)- soft
Water: 0.625cup(150 g)- lukewarm
Gluten free cocoanut flour: ½cup(50 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)- soft
Egg yolks: 2- (medium)
Lemon peel: 1
Orange peel: 1
Gluten free candied fruit: 5.3oz(150 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Dark chocolate: 10.5oz(300 g)
Dark chocolate: 2.75oz(80 g)- shaved

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + the rising times of the various phases (in total about 6 hours)

instructions:
To prepare the gluten-free panettone, start with the starter: in a bowl crumble the fresh yeast, add the rice malt and half the amount of warm water . Then stir with a spoon .
As soon as the yeast has dissolved, add the flour and the remaining warm water . Stir until fully absorbed to obtain a smooth batter without lumps. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for an hour at a temperature of about 79°F.
The starter will have doubled in volume , you can pour it into a large bowl and deflate it with electric beaters fitted with a hook. Also add the sugar and mix for a few minutes .
Then add the egg yolks and continue mixing with the beaters at medium speed. As soon as the yolks are incorporated, gradually add the flour and warm water . Work everything for at least 15 minutes.
Then add the soft butter in pieces , one piece at a time, waiting for it to be absorbed before adding the next. Once all the butter is incorporated, work at maximum speed for about 10 minutes . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rise in the oven with the light on for at least 3 hours: it should double in volume.
Take the dough again and work with the beaters at low speed to deflate it . Then add 1/4 cup of sugar and the egg yolks .
Continue kneading . Also add 1/2 cup flour and continue working with the electric beaters until fully absorbed. Finally, add 1 1/2 tbsp of butter in pieces, always a little at a time .
Once absorbed, flavor with lemon and orange zest and, after 5 minutes, add the candied fruit , continuing to knead for at least 10 minutes. Evenly distribute the dough in a 750 g panettone mold, cover with plastic wrap and let rise in the oven with the light on for at least 2 hours: the dough should reach the edge of the mold.
After 2 hours, take the mold which will have reached the edge, remove the plastic wrap and brush with warm melted butter . Bake in a preheated convection oven at 356°F: for the first 15 minutes place it on the lowest shelf of the oven. Then quickly open the oven to cover with a sheet of aluminum foil; continue baking for another 35 minutes. Check from time to time (without opening the oven anymore) and before taking it out, perform the toothpick test to verify it is cooked. Turn off the oven and wait 10 minutes before removing it. Then, take it out of the oven and let it cool on a wire rack. In the meantime, prepare the topping: pour the cream into a saucepan and bring it to just below boiling. Chop the dark chocolate , place it in a small bowl, and pour the hot cream over it .
Stir quickly until the chocolate has completely melted . Pour the mixture over the surface of the panettone, spreading it delicately with a spatula and letting it drip down the sides. Sprinkle with dark chocolate flakes and serve your gluten-free panettone.
The panettone can be stored for 3-4 days well wrapped in plastic wrap.
It can be frozen once cooked.
Instead of mixed candied fruit, you could use only candied orange or create a mix with gluten-free chocolate chips inside as well.

