name:
Namelaka
ingredients:
Milk Chocolate: 6.4oz(180 g)- at 36%
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(190 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(100 g)
Glucose: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.07oz(2 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 3 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the crystallization time in the fridge (12 h)

instructions:
To prepare milk chocolate namelaka, first soak the gelatin in cold water . Finely chop the chocolate and transfer it to a bowl .
Melt the chocolate in the microwave, activating it for a few seconds at a time and stirring frequently to avoid burning it . Pour the milk, cream, and glucose into a saucepan and bring to a simmer. At this point, pour about half of it into the chocolate and mix with a spatula.
Drain the gelatin and add it to the saucepan . Stir with a whisk to dissolve it completely and pour it into the chocolate mixture . Stir again with a spatula .
At this point, work the cream with an immersion blender, keeping it immersed to avoid incorporating air , until it is smooth, fluid, and shiny. Then transfer it to a bowl . Cover with plastic wrap and let it crystallize in the refrigerator for 12 hours.
After this time, remove the namelaka from the refrigerator . It will be compact and creamy, perfect for filling a dessert. Otherwise, work it with electric beaters for a few minutes ; this way, it will become airy and perfect for decorating many desserts!
Milk chocolate namelaka can be stored in the refrigerator for 3 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can flavor the namelaka by infusing a vanilla pod (even if the seeds have already been removed) or a piece of cinnamon in the milk.

• Can the cream rest in the freezer to reduce resting times?
Unfortunately, it is not possible; the cream would start to freeze, and proper crystallization would not be achieved.
• Can dark chocolate be used?
Dark chocolate can be used, but the proportions of other ingredients will change. You can find the Dark Chocolate Namelaka .
• Is it necessary to chop the chocolate?
For a successful result, it's important to chop the chocolate. This way, it will melt immediately and won't overheat.
• What can be used instead of glucose?
Acacia honey can be used, although it is not exactly the same.
• What is the purpose of gelatin? Can it be omitted?
Gelatin is used to give the cream the right consistency. We recommend not substituting it.

