name:
Buttercream
ingredients:
Butter: 12tbsp(175 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Egg yolks: 6tbsp(90 g)- (about 6)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Butter: 0.66lb(300 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Egg whites: 0.4cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the buttercream, start by placing the sugar and water in a thick-bottomed saucepan, heat over low heat stirring occasionally with a steel spoon. When the sugar has dissolved, place a candy thermometer in the saucepan and without stirring anymore, bring the syrup to 250°F. Unfortunately, there is no empirical method to recognize the temperature by eye, so the candy thermometer is indispensable .
When the syrup is almost at temperature, place the egg yolks in a mixer and start to whip them , add the syrup in a thin stream , which will have reached the temperature by then, and whip until completely cooled. Meanwhile, cut the vanilla pod and extract the seeds .
At this point, place the butter in a bowl, add the vanilla seeds , and with the help of a spoon start to work it , until you get a homogeneous mixture .
Then incorporate the vanilla butter into the mixer, adding it little by little and whipping until the mixture becomes creamy . You can use your buttercream immediately or store it at room temperature (as long as it's not too hot) .
To make the meringue buttercream for decorating desserts (cupcakes and small sweets on which you want to emphasize particular decorations), first make a syrup: pour the water and sugar into a saucepan and heat the mixture until it reaches 250°F.
Meanwhile, cut the butter into pieces ; then pour the egg whites into the bowl of a mixer equipped with a whisk and start whipping .
When the syrup reaches 250°F, pour it in a stream over the egg whites that are whipping in the mixer . Continue to whip until completely cooled . As soon as the mixture is ready, you will notice the so-called bird's beak, a peak on the end of the whisks. You have just obtained an Italian Meringue , let the mixture cool at room temperature for at least 15 minutes.
When the meringue is well chilled, add the butter as well, little by little and incorporate it, always working with the whisks . Once incorporated, your meringue buttercream is ready to use . If you wish, you can color it by adding food coloring at this stage, just enough to achieve the desired shade. Continue mixing until you have a uniform color. Put the buttercream in a piping bag and use it to decorate the surface of small cakes and cupcakes!
It is preferable to use the buttercream immediately or shortly after preparing it, but you can store it in the fridge for a maximum of a couple of days, in a bowl covered with cling film in contact. Before using it, you will need to let it acclimate and work with a spatula. Freezing is not recommended.
The indicated amount of buttercream is suitable for filling or coating a cake with a diameter of about 10-11 inches, or for decorating about 6 cupcakes.

