name:
Christmas Naked Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 5.3oz(150 g)- at room temperature (about 3 small)
Sugar: 0.4cup(75 g)
Cornstarch: ½cup(75 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1 ¼tsp(3 g)
Butter: to taste- to grease the mold
Whole milk: 1.67cups(400 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 6
Vanilla extract: 2tsp(10 g)
Cornstarch: 5tbsp(40 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.2oz(5 g)
Cream cheese: ½cup(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(130 g)
Red currants: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Cinnamon sticks: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Note + cooling times

instructions:
Are you looking for an important dessert for the holiday table? With a multi-layer cake, you are sure to impress, especially if it's our Christmas naked cake! Under the white veil of cream cheese are hidden 3 layers of sponge cake scented with cinnamon filled with vanilla custard : a simple yet spectacular recipe, also thanks to the Christmas-themed decoration made with red currants, rosemary needles, and cinnamon sticks. However, you can personalize it as you like, maybe taking inspiration from the fairytale-like woodland cake with panettone , so let your imagination guide you and send us photos of your beautiful Christmas naked cakes!
Also discover these spectacular Christmas cakes:

To make the Christmas naked cake, first prepare the sponge cake: pour the whole eggs and sugar into the bowl of a stand mixer, then work with the whisk attachment for about 15 minutes. Meanwhile, mix the corn starch and cinnamon in a small bowl .
When you have obtained a well-beaten and frothy mixture , turn off the mixer and sift the cinnamon and corn starch mix inside . Incorporate the powders with a hand whisk .
Pour the batter into a mold with a diameter of 7 inches, at least 4 inches high, that you have previously buttered or lined with parchment paper . Level the surface with the back of a spoon and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 25 minutes. Once baked, remove the sponge cake from the oven and let it cool completely in the mold .
In the meantime, prepare the custard: soak the gelatin sheets in cold water , then pour the egg yolks and sugar into a saucepan and mix with a spatula. Meanwhile, heat the milk in another saucepan .
After mixing the yolks well with the sugar, add the vanilla extract and corn starch and mix again with the spatula. When the milk comes to a simmer, add it in several additions to the yolk mixture .
Put the saucepan on the stove and thicken over low heat, stirring continuously with the whisk . Once thickened, transfer the cream to a bowl and add the well-squeezed gelatin sheets , then mix thoroughly to incorporate them evenly. Let it cool , cover with cling film in contact, and put it in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, take the sponge cake and remove the upper crust , then cut it into 3 disks of equal thickness .
Take the cream from the refrigerator, give it another stir, and transfer it into a pastry bag with a 1 cm plain tip. Place the first sponge cake disk on a serving plate and fill it with half of the custard , then cover with the second disk and add the remaining cream .
Place the third sponge cake disk on top, straighten the cake and smooth the edges with a spatula, then put it in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes . Meanwhile, prepare the topping: pour the cream cheese into a bowl, add the cream and mix with a whisk to obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream .
After the cooling time, cover the surface of the cake with a light layer of cream using the spatula , including the sides .
Finally, garnish the surface with currants , rosemary needles, and cinnamon sticks . Your Christmas naked cake is ready to be served !
The Christmas naked cake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
If you wish, you can enrich the filling layers with fresh fruit like currants or raspberries, or you can add chocolate chips directly to the cream!

