name:
Pandoro bar, yogurt and Nutella®
ingredients:
Pandoro pastry: 7oz(200 g)
Greek yogurt: ¾cup(175 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(120 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.18oz(5 g)
Acacia honey: 1tbsp(25 g)
Vanilla extract: ½tsp
Fine salt: 1pinch
Blackberries: to taste
Currants: to taste
Chopped hazelnuts: to taste
Nutella®: 7.1tbsp(105 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 7 pieces
Note + 3 hours of resting in the freezer

instructions:
To make the pandoro, yogurt, and Nutella® bar, soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for 10 minutes . In a bowl, pour the Greek yogurt, 3.5 oz of cream , the honey ,
the vanilla extract and the salt . Work the ingredients with an electric mixer for about 2 minutes .
Set aside the whipped mixture . In a saucepan, pour the remaining 0.7 oz of fresh cream and add the previously soaked gelatin with part of the soaking water for a total weight of 0.9 oz. Heat the ingredients until the gelatin is completely dissolved .
Pour the cream and gelatin mixture over the yogurt cream and work for another 2 minutes with the electric mixer . Set aside the cream. Cut 0.5-inch thick slices of pandoro, remove the crust
and cut out 14 rectangles of 2x3.5 inches . Place 7 pandoro rectangles in a silicone mold with 7 portions and press them lightly with your fingers. Transfer the yogurt cream into a piping bag without a tip .
Fill the forms up to 0.2 inches from the edge . Lay the remaining 7 pandoro rectangles on top . Cover the molds with a tray to make them perfectly flat and transfer the bars to the freezer for at least 3 hours.
Remove the semifreddos from the freezer and gently unmold them . Leave the bars at room temperature for 30 minutes on a tray . Decorate the bars with 0.5 oz of Nutella® each using a piping bag with a fluted tip, finally garnish with blackberries, currants, and chopped hazelnuts.
You can store the finished bars in the refrigerator for 2 days. Alternatively, you can freeze them for a month.
As an alternative to acacia honey, you can use wildflower honey. Silicone molds are very practical for unmolding semifreddos, but if you can't find them, you can replace them with aluminum molds. In this case, to unmold the desserts, simply dip the base of the molds in hot water for a few moments and then invert the mold onto a serving plate.

