name:
Pandoro ring with Nutella®
ingredients:
Pandoro pastry: 4slices- (1.5 cm thick each)
Nutella®: 0.67cup(180 g)
Red currants: to taste
Raspberries: to taste
White nougat: to taste
Mint: to taste
Egg yolks: 5
Sugar: 0.55cup(110 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(200 g)
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Spumante: 3oz(85 g)
Cornstarch: 3 ¼tbsp(40 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(100 g)- semi-whipped

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 6
Note + 4 hours of resting in the fridge

instructions:
To prepare the pandoro ring with Nutella®, start by cutting the first 2 inches of the pandoro that you won't need . Then make 4 slices each 0.6 inches thick and flatten 2 of them with a rolling pin ,
and then toast them in a non-stick pan for a few moments , until both sides are completely golden . Place the first toasted slice at the bottom of a plate where you have already placed a 9-inch pastry ring and lined it with parchment paper .
With the untoasted slices, create the tips of the ring. So, you should get a total of 4 pieces with 3 tips and 2 pieces with 2 tips , if needed you can trim them further according to the mold and the thickness of the slices .
Once you have all the pieces , arrange the tips in the mold and, if necessary, cut the tips to achieve a perfect ring .
In the meantime, work on the cream. Soak the gelatin in cold water, it should absorb it completely , and while it softens pour cream and milk into a saucepan and bring to a boil. In another saucepan, pour the egg yolks with the sugar ,
start mixing and then add the cornstarch . Pour in the hot cream and milk in a stream to get a smooth mixture .
Move the pot to the stove. Cook, stirring continuously with a whisk until you have a smooth cream . Then transfer it to a bowl that you have chilled in the freezer and stir for a few moments to lower the temperature of the cream .
Meanwhile, place a small saucepan on the stove and heat the sparkling wine , then retrieve the gelatin, pour it into the sparkling wine, and dissolve it off the heat . Pour it into the cream .
Stir and let it cool for a few minutes . In the meantime, pour the cream into a bowl, whip it without reaching the classic stiff peaks but rather a softer consistency and add it to the cream, mixing gently .
Pour the cream into the pandoro shell , place the last toasted pandoro slice inside (if needed, cut the tips with a shape slightly smaller than the mold) , place it on the cream gently pressing to compact. Let it set in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours .
Retrieve the cake and transfer it to a serving plate . Dust only the tips with powdered sugar . Then spread Nutella® over the entire surface ,
and garnish with currants , raspberries, and crumbled nougat . Complete with a few mint leaves and your pandoro ring with Nutella® is ready !
You can store the pandoro ring with Nutella® for 3 days keeping it in the refrigerator.
Freezing is not recommended.
In the pandoro ring with Nutella®, the addition of sparkling wine adds a really original and flavorful touch, but if you really don't want to, you can replace it with milk in which to dissolve the gelatin.

