name:
Cups of pandoro, cream and Nutella®
ingredients:
Nutella®: ½cup(150 g)
Pandoro pastry: 10.6oz(300 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Whole milk: 1.67cups(400 g)
Cornstarch: 5tbsp(40 g)
Egg yolks: 4
Sugar: 6 ½tbsp(80 g)
Coffee: 1.8cups(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 10

instructions:
To make the cups of pandoro, cream, and Nutella®, pour the milk into a saucepan , and heat it over low heat until it is about to boil. In a bowl, place the egg yolks and pour the sugar , then mix with a whisk and when the sugar is absorbed, add the sifted cornflour through a sieve ; mix the powders well.
In the meantime, remove the saucepan from the heat and slightly temper the beaten eggs with a ladle of hot milk . Mix well, then put the saucepan with the milk back on the heat and pour in the egg mixture . Continue to cook slowly and always stirring the cream with a whisk, until it thickens , it will take about 10-15 minutes.
Once ready, transfer the cream into a bowl, cover the cream with a sheet of baking paper so that it is in contact with the surface of the cream , at this point to cool it faster, place the bowl inside a larger container filled with ice to create a sort of cold bain-marie . Pour the fresh liquid cream (well chilled) into a bowl and whip it with electric whisks
until it is frothy . Add the whipped cream to the now cold cream and gently mix with a spatula from the bottom up to avoid deflating the mixture ; continue until all the cream is gradually mixed in.
Transfer the obtained cream into a pastry bag with a 10 mm plain nozzle (13-14-15) and place it in the refrigerator.
Cut the slices of pandoro into pieces, adjusting them based on the shape of your glasses (we used 7 oz glasses) . Everything is ready to assemble the desserts: place 2-3 pieces of pandoro on the bottom of the glass , soak with coffee ,
then squeeze a small portion of cream . Also, transfer Nutella® into a pastry bag with a 6 mm nozzle and squeeze a small portion into the glass , continue by alternating layers of cream and Nutella® to create a marbled effect. Fill the cups to the brim and then serve immediately !
The cups of pandoro with cream and Nutella® can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. You can freeze the cream and, if necessary, thaw it in the refrigerator and use it.
After the holidays, you can make these delicious desserts using sponge cake, so you can enjoy them all year round!
Nutella® is a registered trademark of Ferrero. The recipe described here is intended for home use only. Making this recipe does not grant authorization to use the Nutella® trademark.

