name:
Pandoro with condensed milk and chocolate chips
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Egg yolks: 1 ¾tbsp(25 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Condensed milk: 4 ½tbsp(90 g)
Manitoba flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 4.6oz(130 g)
Sugar: 5 ½tbsp(70 g)
Butter: 4.4oz(125 g)- at room temperature
Chocolate drops: 3.5oz(100 g)
Condensed milk: 0.7cup(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(230 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)- (soft)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + rising times for the starter and the dough

instructions:
To prepare the pandoro with condensed milk and chocolate chips, start with the starter dough: in a bowl, pour the sifted flour, the dry yeast (if you use fresh yeast, you can use 15g, dissolving it in warm milk); then add the warm milk and an egg yolk, then mix with the whisk
until you get a homogeneous dough ; cover with plastic wrap and let rise for 1 hour at room temperature until it has doubled in volume. After the necessary time, pour the starter dough into the bowl of a stand mixer, add the sugar
then the condensed milk and the sifted flour ; then turn on the stand mixer with the paddle attachment and add the eggs, one at a time, waiting for the previous one to be absorbed before proceeding with the next .
When the dough is homogeneous and detaches from the sides, replace the paddle with the hook, let the mixer run for a few minutes, then add the softened butter one piece at a time, waiting for the previous piece to be absorbed before proceeding with the next . When all the butter is incorporated, add the chocolate chips . Take a pandoro mold with a capacity of 1.65 lbs and grease it thoroughly .
Turn the dough onto a slightly greased work surface, work it to form a ball, and place it in the pandoro mold (13-14); cover with a clean cloth and let rise until it reaches the edge of the mold (this will take about 6 hours).
In the meantime, prepare the custard: pour the condensed milk into a saucepan , then add the cream . Place the saucepan over low heat and infuse an opened vanilla bean : bring everything to a boil.
In a small bowl, pour the egg yolks, add the sugar , and mix to turn it into a cream , then add the heated cream with condensed milk
then return the mixture to the saucepan where you heated the cream and condensed milk and place the saucepan in a bain-marie, making sure that the water in the larger pot does not touch the bottom of the small saucepan where you placed the custard; stir with a whisk and bring the custard to 181°F, measuring the exact temperature with a kitchen thermometer. Then turn off the heat and pass the custard through a sieve to remove lumps and vanilla bean residues .
Cover with plastic wrap in contact with the custard and let it cool at room temperature, then place in the refrigerator until ready to use. When the pandoro has risen, place it in the oven for baking: place a bowl filled with water in the oven on the lowest part, then bake the pandoro in a preheated static oven at 338°F for 55 minutes. Before removing from the oven, check the cooking with a toothpick. Once baked, remove it from the oven , then flip it onto a serving plate to cool completely. Once cold, sprinkle with powdered sugar as desired : the pandoro with condensed milk and chocolate chips is ready to be served!
Store the pandoro under a glass dome or in a food bag for 1-2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you don't have a thermometer to measure the temperature of the custard, it will be ready when it coats the spoon.

