name:
Pandoro Trees with Custard Cream and Red Currants
ingredients:
Pandoro pastry: 2- small
Currants: 2sprigs
Powdered sugar: to taste- for dusting
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: 0.375cup(75 g)
Cornstarch: 3tbsp(25 g)- or rice
Egg yolks: 3
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Orange peel: ½

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Low
Note Plus cooling time for the custard cream

instructions:
To prepare pandoro trees with custard cream and currants, start with the cream, which you can flavor with orange and cinnamon: take the orange, wash it, and dry it, then peel it, trying to take only the outer zest and not the more bitter white part . Pour the milk into a small saucepan and turn on low heat, then add the cinnamon stick and orange zest and bring it to a simmer. At this point, turn off the heat, cover the saucepan with plastic wrap, and let it cool down: this way, the aromas will not disperse. Meanwhile, in a large bowl, pour the egg yolks (with the leftover egg whites, you can make crunchy meringues or cat tongues!) and whisk them together with the granulated sugar with a hand whisk .
When you have obtained a smooth and fluid mixture, gradually add the cornstarch, sifting it directly into the bowl , and mix again to absorb it. Now remove the plastic wrap from the saucepan with the milk, discard the orange zest and cinnamon stick, and temper the egg yolk, sugar, and cornstarch mixture with a little milk. Mix and transfer the entire mixture to the saucepan with the milk . Turn on the heat to low and continue stirring with the whisk until the cream thickens: it will only take a few minutes.
Then pour the cream into a wide and shallow dish and let it cool at room temperature, then cover with contact plastic wrap and put in the refrigerator to chill . When the cream is cold, you can transfer it to a piping bag. Meanwhile, cut the pandorinos into slices, starting from the bottom (8-9) until you reach the top.
Cut out the base with a star-shaped biscuit cutter . Then fill the next slice with custard cream, using the piping bag and filling the entire surface well : this will be the base of your pandoro tree. Then place the next slice on top and continue alternating layers of custard cream with pandoro until you create the shape of a small fir tree.
Finish with a dollop of custard cream . Dust with powdered sugar both the star and the currants, deseeded in a small bowl .
Gently place the star on top of the pandorino and the currants all around . Repeat the steps for the other pandoro and bring your pandoro trees with custard cream and currants to the table to celebrate together !
Store the pandoro trees in the refrigerator covered for up to one day, preferably without powdered sugar. You can indeed prepare them in advance and take them out of the refrigerator a few minutes before serving, sprinkle the star and currants with powdered sugar before decorating, and bring them to the table.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can prepare the cream flavoring it with untreated lemon zest and the seeds of a vanilla bean instead of oranges and cinnamon.
You can also decorate your pandoro trees with melted dark chocolate or with water glaze to transform them into a real Christmas cake!

