name:
Chestnut Cream
ingredients:
Chestnuts: 4.4lbs(2 kg)
Sugar: 3cups(600 g)
Water: 2 ¾cups(650 ml)
Lemon peel: 1- untreated
Vanilla bean: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the chestnut cream, start by washing the chestnuts under running water , then place them whole in a pot full of water and boil for at least 15 minutes then drain and let them cool slightly. At this point, peel the chestnuts with a sharp knife .
Transfer the chestnuts into a food mill to obtain a sandy mixture or alternatively, you can use a potato masher. This will yield about 3.5 lbs of pulp. Now take the vanilla pod and cut it lengthwise
and extract the seeds inside . Place a high-sided pan on the heat, add the vanilla pod with its seeds, the sugar , and the water .
Melt the sugar over medium heat, stirring with a whisk for about 10 minutes . Once the sugar is completely melted, remove the vanilla pod with kitchen tongs and incorporate the chestnuts and mix the mixture.
Grate the zest of an untreated lemon and add it to the cream . Cook over low heat for about 1 hour, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon. The chestnut cream will be ready when it becomes a creamy puree .
At this point, transfer the chestnut cream into jars using a spoon (16-17), your chestnut cream is ready .
The chestnut cream can be stored for 1 week in the refrigerator in an airtight container or can be vacuum-sealed for 6 to 12 months in a cool place away from light.
For a richer flavor, you can cook the chestnuts in milk instead of water. If you prefer an alcoholic note, you can flavor the mixture with a liquor such as cognac or rum.
Homemade preparation of preserves and jams can present health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures can guarantee to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to strictly follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it should always be kept in mind that the same food safety as professionally produced preserves and jams cannot be achieved. For proper preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health.

