name:
White chocolate pastry cream
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Egg yolks: 2
White chocolate: 8.8oz(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 2tbsp(15 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Condensed milk: 3.3tbsp(60 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(20 g)
Milk: 1cup(250 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the white chocolate pastry cream, chop the chocolate into shavings with a knife and set aside , then put the milk in a saucepan and heat it over low heat until it becomes warm . In the meantime, beat the yolks with the sugar using a whisk until light and frothy ,
then add the sifted flour little by little and finally the milk , now warm. Mix all the ingredients very well then transfer the mixture into a pot, filtering it with a sieve to remove any lumps .
Now let it thicken over low heat, stirring vigorously and often, for about 20 minutes . When the cream is thick, add the chocolate shavings and continue stirring for another 5 minutes until it melts completely . Your white chocolate pastry cream is ready: transfer it to a wide, shallow container, cover it with cling film to prevent a crust from forming on the surface , and once cool, store it in the refrigerator until ready to use.
For those intolerant to eggs or simply prefer a lighter version, it is possible to make white chocolate pastry cream by replacing the eggs and sugar with condensed milk, here's how: chop the chocolate into shavings and warm the milk over low heat, then mix the sifted flour and condensed milk in a bowl (1-2). Gradually add the warm milk , continuing to stir to avoid forming lumps.
Transfer the mixture into a saucepan and let it thicken over low heat , stirring continuously. Finally, add the white chocolate cut into shavings and continue cooking until it is completely melted . The white chocolate pastry cream without eggs is ready : transfer it to a wide, shallow container, cover it with cling film, and once cool, store it in the refrigerator until ready to use.
You can store the white chocolate pastry cream in the refrigerator, closed in an airtight container or placed in a bowl covered with cling film, for up to 4 days.
If desired, you can flavor the white chocolate cream with freshly grated ginger. Enriched with diced strawberries, it is excellent for filling cakes and cream puffs. If you want to make the egg-free version, condensed milk cannot be substituted. Condensed milk is milk from which water has been removed and is found in well-stocked supermarkets.

