name:
Milk Cream
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1.67cups(400 g)
Honey: 1tsp
Sugar: 6 ½tbsp(80 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Cornstarch: 5tbsp(40 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.67cup(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + at least 30 min. of rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the milk cream, heat 1 ¼ cups of milk together with the sugar in a saucepan . Split the vanilla bean lengthwise and extract the seeds by scraping with a knife ;
add the vanilla seeds to the milk and heat over very low heat, mixing well with the whisk to dissolve the sugar. In a separate bowl, sift the cornstarch , then pour the remaining milk, stirring with a hand whisk : this will prevent lumps from forming in the cream.
Add the cold milk in which the cornstarch has dissolved to the saucepan with the milk and sugar . Add the honey , continuing with the whisk over very low heat until the cream has thickened. Once it's thick and smooth, turn off the heat and pour the cream into a bowl .
Cover with plastic wrap, making it adhere well to the surface so that the annoying crust does not form ; let it cool at room temperature and then in the refrigerator. After the necessary time has passed, remove the cream from the refrigerator : if you notice any lumps, strain it with a fine sieve to eliminate them. Revive the cream with an electric mixer, then in a separate bowl whip the cold cream from the refrigerator .
Add the whipped cream to the now cold milk cream , mixing the two mixtures very gently from bottom to top until you get a smooth and homogeneous cream . Your milk cream is ready: you can use it to fill Choux pastry (pâte à choux) , rolls of Cocoa biscuit dough , cakes, and other desserts!
Store the milk cream in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Milk cream is just what you need to bring a touch of freshness and goodness to the table, making both adults and children happy! Instead of vanilla, you can create delicious variations by flavoring with orange or lemon zest: you'll get a cream characterized by a delicate and pleasant citrusy scent!

