name:
Chocolate buttercream
ingredients:
Butter: ¾cup(175 g)- at room temperature
Water: ¼cup(50 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Egg yolks: 6tbsp(90 g)- approximately 6
Unsweetened cocoa powder: ¾tbsp(12 g)
Vanilla bean: ½

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate buttercream, start by chopping the dark chocolate , then transfer it to a bowl and melt it in a double boiler, stirring often .
When it is completely melted , pour it into a bowl and let it cool, stirring occasionally. Meanwhile, prepare the syrup that will pasteurize the egg yolks and give your cream a firmer structure: pour the sugar into a saucepan, add the water , and let it simmer until it reaches a temperature of 250°F ; you can use a kitchen thermometer for this operation.
When the syrup in the saucepan reaches 239°F, pour the egg yolks into the bowl of a stand mixer and start whipping them . As soon as the syrup reaches the indicated temperature, pour it slowly into the mixer while it is still running and continue to work until it cools completely. Meanwhile, transfer the softened butter, cut into cubes, into a bowl, add the seeds of half a vanilla bean ;
with the help of a spatula, start working it into a cream until you obtain a soft and homogeneous mixture . Then, gradually add the butter into the running mixer , until it's all incorporated; you should obtain a creamy mixture .
With the whisk still running, slowly incorporate the now cooled melted chocolate into the mixer , then transfer the cream into a bowl and also add the sifted cocoa powder . Mix with a spatula until everything is combined and your chocolate buttercream will be ready .
Store your chocolate buttercream for 2 days in the refrigerator, in a bowl covered with cling film on contact, or inside a piping bag. Freezing is not recommended.
The above-mentioned quantity of chocolate buttercream is suitable for filling or covering a cake with a diameter of 11 inches (or garnishing 6/8 cupcakes). When your chocolate buttercream is ready, keep it away from heat sources and always store it in the refrigerator. If you wish, you can vary the amount of chocolate to add to the cream, using less to make it more delicate or adding more to intensify the flavor.

