name:
How to cover a cake with fondant
ingredients:
Jam: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste
Sugar paste: 3.3lbs(1.5 kg)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Makes: pieces

instructions:
Take the cake you want to use, we prepared the Mud cake because this base lends itself well to being covered with fondant; if you prefer, you can also prepare a Sponge cake . Using a brush, coat the entire surface and sides of the cake with apricot or peach jam , this will serve as a “glue” to ensure the fondant perfectly adheres to the cake. To facilitate the process, we recommend placing the cake on a turntable if you have one. Dust a work surface with powdered sugar and roll out the room-temperature fondant using a cold fondant rolling pin on a cold, smooth surface . A regular work surface is not suitable because the fondant would not turn out perfectly smooth. You can use a silicone mat or simply parchment paper. Roll out the fondant to the desired size and thickness, we recommend not thinner than 1/8 inch, then roll the fondant onto the rolling pin
and lay the rolled fondant over the cake . Apply light pressure with your hands to adjust the fondant on the cake, then with a special fondant spatula ensure the fondant adheres perfectly without forming wrinkles or creases, use the fondant spatula to apply gentle pressure on both the top of the cake
and the sides , then with a small knife cut off any excess fondant from the edges of the cake , keeping the knife blade close to the base, and refine the coverage by going over it with the spatula .
To finish your cake, you can make decorations at the base of the cake. Model the remaining fondant into a sausage shape to create two ropes and twist them together (10-11), for this you just need to roll the ropes onto themselves. Your cake is now perfectly covered with fondant and ready to be further decorated, or to be eaten!
A cake covered with fondant can be stored for 2-3 days, protected with a glass dome, not in the refrigerator.
To prevent the fondant from drying out, it is advisable to wrap it first in plastic wrap, then tightly in a plastic bag, not in the refrigerator, but in a cool, dry place. For coloring the fondant, it's best to use gel or powder coloring if you want more intense colors. Otherwise, liquid colorings are better. If you want to achieve a white coverage, you can use white coloring, and it's better not to use dark creams because the fondant, absorbing a bit of color, will not remain white. If you don't want to use jam, you can use buttercream or ganache instead.

