name:
Chocolate Semolina Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Butter: 8.8tbsp(125 g)- cold
Eggs: 1.9oz(53 g)- (1 medium)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Vanilla bean: 1
Semolina: 10tbsp(100 g)
Whole milk: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Eggs: 5.3oz(150 g)- (3 medium)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Dark chocolate: 7.1oz(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + 1 hour of resting the shortcrust in the refrigerator and 30 minutes of resting the complete cake

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate semolina cake, start with the shortcrust pastry, made using the creaming method. Pour the flour into a mixer along with the cold butter cut into pieces . If you prefer, you can use a stand mixer with the paddle attachment. Pulse the blades intermittently until you get a sandy mixture. Using the mixer intermittently will prevent the dough from heating up too much. Turn off the blades and add the powdered sugar along with the vanilla seeds (keep the pod as you'll need it later) and a pinch of salt .
Add the egg and turn on the processor again for a few moments, this time lowering the speed so the blades mix the dough without blending it. As soon as the mixture is combined , transfer it to your work surface. Quickly compact it with your hands to prevent the gluten from developing.
Form a smooth and homogeneous dough, flatten it slightly , then wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the fridge for about 1 hour. Prepare the filling by pouring the milk and reserved vanilla pod into a saucepan . Bring to a boil.
Remove the vanilla pod , add a pinch of salt, and sprinkle in the semolina while stirring with a whisk to prevent lumps from forming . Add the sugar and continue stirring. It will take about 5-7 minutes of cooking over moderate heat.
Now turn off the heat and add the butter ; it should have a creamy consistency in the end. Let it cool for about 10 minutes. Roll out the shortcrust pastry with a little flour until it's about 5-6 mm thick . Roll it onto the rolling pin and unroll it over a fluted tart pan with a base of 9.5 inches, a rim of 10 inches, and a height of 2.2 inches. Trim off the excess pastry with the rolling pin .
Prick the base of the tart pan with a fork and set it aside for a moment. Once the cream is lukewarm, add the eggs and ricotta to it.
Mix to combine everything . Pour the mixture into the tart pan , level the surface , and bake in a preheated oven at 350°F for about 45 minutes on the lowest rack.
After the cooking time, let the cake cool, then turn it out onto a serving plate . Prepare the ganache: heat the cream in a saucepan , add the chopped dark chocolate .
Stir to melt the chocolate well and obtain a smooth sauce . Pour the ganache over the cake , level the surface, and let it set before serving, about 30 minutes. The chocolate semolina cake is ready .
Store the chocolate semolina cake in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for 3 days. It is not recommended to freeze the semolina cake.
Prepare the semolina cake the day before to give it more time to absorb all the flavors. You can flavor it with citrus fruits of your choice. You can also scent it with ground cinnamon.

