name:
Injera bread
ingredients:
Corn flour: 1cup(125 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Whole grain flour: 0.6cup(70 g)
Water: 1cup(250 ml)- warm
Water: 0.6cup(150 ml)- boiling
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(3 g)
Baking soda: ½tsp(2 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low
Note 2 days + 1 h for the dough fermentation

instructions:
To prepare injera bread, whisk together in a large bowl the three flours: corn, all-purpose, and whole wheat . Dissolve the dry yeast in 1 cup (250 ml) of warm water (alternatively, you can use 0.2 oz (6 g) of fresh yeast) and pour the liquid slowly over the flours .
Stir vigorously with a whisk to obtain a thick, soft, and homogeneous batter , which you will cover with plastic wrap and allow to ferment for 2 days at room temperature .
After 2 days, you will have a bubbly mixture. At this point, add 2/3 cup (150 ml) of boiling water and the baking soda . Mix with the whisk: the consistency should be smooth, similar to crepe batter .
Cover everything again with plastic wrap and let it rest for another hour, after which the mixture will be swollen and full of bubbles . To cook the bread, you will need a round non-stick pan, similar to a crepe pan: heat it very well and pour about 2.5 oz (70 g) of batter on it .
As soon as bubbles begin to appear on the surface , cover with a lid and finish cooking : it will take about 2 minutes, you will notice that the cooking is done because the bread changes color . Once cooked, cover the bread very well with plastic wrap to prevent it from drying out. Injera bread is ready!
Store injera bread in a tightly closed bag, in the refrigerator for 2 days, to prevent it from drying out. You can freeze the cooked injera bread.
Teff is an annual grass that produces very fine and tiny seeds, which are finely ground to produce teff flour, used in Africa to make injera. The name teff means "lost" and refers to the fact that the plant's seeds require a lot of care and manual skill during harvest to prevent them from being lost.
You can also prepare this bread using only all-purpose flour. However, remember to be careful to balance the amount of water based on the absorption rate, obtaining a soft batter similar to that for crepes.

