name:
Éclair
ingredients:
Water: 0.85cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(130 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 4- medium
Sugar: 1 ½tsp(6 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Egg yolks: 3- (medium)
Sugar: 6tbsp(75 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.9oz(25 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Water: 5.1tbsp(75 g)
Powdered sugar: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Water: 1.1oz(30 g)
Caramel: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + cooling times

instructions:
To make the éclairs, start with the choux pastry: put water, sugar , salt, and butter in a saucepan. Bring to a boil, at which point add the flour all at once, stirring quickly with a wooden spoon .
Continue cooking, stirring , until a white film forms on the bottom of the pot and the mixture pulls away uniformly from the sides . Remove from the heat and transfer the mixture to a stand mixer with a paddle attachment , then let it run for a minute to cool it down slightly.
Add the eggs one at a time , ensuring each one is well incorporated before adding the next . You'll know the mixture is ready when lifting the paddle forms a sort of triangle as it falls. The choux pastry is ready .
Place it in a piping bag with an 18 mm plain nozzle . Pipe onto a baking sheet with parchment paper, creating strips about 4-5 inches long . Space them apart so they have room to expand during baking . You should get about 2 sheets: it's recommended to bake them one at a time.
Bake in a preheated static oven at 365°F for about 30 minutes. They should be light and crispy when done . Remove from the oven and let cool. Meanwhile, prepare the custard: heat the milk with the vanilla seeds in a saucepan , while in a bowl, mix sugar and egg yolks .
Mix, then add the flour . Gradually pour the warmed milk into the egg mixture , continuing to stir .
Once done, return everything to the heat , stirring with a spatula until it starts to thicken. Once it reaches a boil, pour the cream into a bowl and let it cool in the fridge with plastic wrap in contact .
Prepare the caramel by placing sugar in a saucepan, preferably with a thick bottom . Turn the heat to medium-high, and as the edges begin to melt, stir until the desired color is achieved .
Turn off the heat and add the water, previously heated . The caramel will start to boil; let it finish by itself, then stir . Divide it into 3 parts, two portions of about 1 oz each and the third with all the remaining caramel . Let it cool to room temperature.
Take the cold cream and soften it with a whisk, add the larger portion of caramel and mix well .
Place the cream in a piping bag with a syringe nozzle to fill the éclairs . Only at this point prepare the glaze, so it doesn't cool down and is easier to use. Pour the powdered sugar into a saucepan .
Add the water and turn on medium-low heat. Let the ingredients blend, then add a 1 oz portion of caramel , mix, and let the glaze heat thoroughly .
Once ready, keep the flame low and glaze your éclairs by dipping the tops , place them on a tray, and let the glaze set. Once cool, decorate them with the remaining 1 oz of caramel, using a fork to create lines on the glaze . If the caramel has solidified too much, you can warm it for a few seconds in the microwave before using it for decoration. The éclairs are ready to be served !
Unfilled éclairs can be stored in a tin or bag for 1-2 days.
The cream can be stored for 1-2 days in the refrigerator.
It's best to make the caramel fresh.
Filled and glazed éclairs can be stored in the fridge for 1 day.
If the caramel has become a bit solid, you can warm it for a few seconds in the microwave before using it for decoration.

