name:
Saccottini
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 4.4cups(500 g)- (W approximately 300-350)
Butter: 13tbsp(185 g)- at room temperature
Whole milk: ½cup(116 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Egg yolks: 1- of medium eggs
Honey: 1 ½tbsp(33 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(15 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Dark chocolate: 9.2oz(260 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 2 h for rising

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate rolls, we recommend using a stand mixer, but if you don't have one, you can knead by hand in the same order. Place the flour in the bowl along with the milk and crumbled yeast . Turn on the stand mixer with the hook at medium speed and gradually add the eggs and yolk, beaten together, a little at a time .
Next, add the honey and sugar . Once all the sugar is well incorporated, add the butter piece by piece, allowing it to be well absorbed .
When the butter has been incorporated, add the salt, and after a couple of minutes, the dough will be ready . Turn it out onto the counter and let it rest for 5 minutes, covered with the bowl. With wet hands, give it a couple of reinforcing folds by lifting and folding the dough forward, then pulling it towards you . Place it in a bowl, cover it, and let it rise until doubled, which will take about 2 hours .
When the dough has doubled , roll it out on a lightly floured surface to form a rectangle of 12 inches x 16 inches. Cut it in half and divide it into 10 pieces, each measuring approximately 6 inches by 3 inches .
To form the rolls, proceed as follows: take the first rectangle of dough and flatten it gently, then place a piece of chocolate bar at the top and begin rolling it tightly . Place a second strip of chocolate halfway
and continue to roll tightly . Seal the corners well by pinching and seal the seam as well .
Once all are prepared, place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, keeping them slightly spaced apart . Cover them with plastic wrap and let them rise for about 30 minutes. Then brush the surface with yolk and cream . Bake the rolls in a static oven at 390°F for about 15 minutes, then lower to 355°F and continue baking for another 10 minutes. Your chocolate rolls are ready .
Chocolate rolls can be stored for 2-3 days in a cool place, well covered. You can freeze them uncooked.
Try flavoring the roll dough with a bit of orange zest and cinnamon for a truly irresistible autumn touch!

