name:
Focaccia Barese
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 5cups(500 g)- soft wheat
Fresh brewer's yeast: 2tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: 1tbsp(15 g)
Sugar: 2tsp(10 g)
Water: 1cup(300 ml)
Roma tomatoes: 17oz(500 g)- (or San Marzano)
Baresane olives: to taste
Cherry tomatoes: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + leavening time  (about 3 hours)

instructions:
Focaccia is the snack par excellence throughout Puglia. Focaccia Barese can be enjoyed any time of the day: the city's bakeries prepare it nice and early and the aroma wafts throughout the streets. It is used to replace lunch or dinner, but it is also enjoyed whatever the time of day, as a snack or on the go, immersed in the feat of not staining their clothes with tomato, every bite of the way. Children take it to school, wrapped in parchment paper, as a break time snack. People take it with them to the beach, where it becomes the meal of a long day spent lounging under an umbrella at the seaside. It is also enjoyed as a meal during football matches, in the company of friends. From morning to night, focaccia is ubiquitous in the lives of Bari locals. It is difficult to describe every olfactory sensation conveyed by Focaccia Barese , the only way to understand is to walk into a Bari bakery and buy it fresh from the oven, or try the version by Antonio Fiore at home, which you'll find here below.
To prepare the Focaccia Barese , place the flour in a bowl . Place the brewers yeast in another bowl and add 1.76 oz of water and stir with a teaspoon to dissolve it .
Add the water in which you dissolved the yeast to the flour , and start kneading. Now add the salt and remaining water, to dissolve it .
Knead thoroughly by hand to obtain a homogeneous mixture , then add the sugar and continue to stir. Place the dough on a work top .
Knead by hand until smooth , then roll the dough into a ball , sprinkle with a little flour and cover with a clean cloth . Leaven for an hour, away from drafts of air.
In the meantime, thoroughly wash the pear tomatoes and press to break them up into pieces . Now take a 14 inch tray that is 2.17 inches tall. Generously grease the bottom and add the dough .
Delicately press down by hand to stretch it out and pour the oil onto the surface , press down with your fingers to make dips and stretch the dough out .
Add the pressed tomatoes and spread them over the entire surface , interspersed with the halved tomatoes . Add a pinch of salt .
Place the olives on the focaccia , along with the oregano . Leaven for an hour and a half, then bake in a static oven preheated to 480 °F (250 °C ) for 20 minutes. Remove from the oven and serve your barese focaccia hot or warm .
Focaccia Barese can be stored at room temperature under a glass cloche, for 1-2 days.
Once baked and cold, it can be frozen whole or in portions.
If the tomatoes you are using aren't very juicy, add a little water. Instead of fresh tomatoes, you can use peeled ones, with a little of the liquid.
If the tray is new, it needs to be treated before use: grease it and heat it in the oven.
There are lots of different versions of Focaccia Barese. Some add potatoes, others use semolina, in fact there isn't one single recipe for preparing the dough.
Tomatoes and baresine olives are always used for the condiment however.
Antonio Fiore, owner of the Fiore Bakery in Bari, where the most typical specialties have been prepared for generations: Focaccia Barese, onion and sponzali calzone, taralli and lots of other delicacies. From the heart of Ancient Bari to your kitchen, so that you can experience a slice of exquisite local tradition.

