name:
Savory muffins with ricotta and zucchini
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(100 ml)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 2tsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ⅓cup(80 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- to grate
Cherry tomatoes: 12
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: 0.4cup(100 ml)
Zucchini: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Eggs: 3

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare savory muffins with ricotta and zucchini, wash and dry the zucchini well, remove the ends, and using a peeler, cut 12 thin slices to set aside for garnishing . Dice the remaining zucchini into very small cubes and cook them over low heat in a non-stick pan with a little extra virgin olive oil .
Meanwhile, prepare the muffin batter: in a bowl, beat the eggs and milk with a whisk (4-5), add the seed oil slowly while continuing to beat until you get a homogeneous mixture .
Carefully sift the ricotta and the all-purpose flour to which you have added the baking powder , then add them to the mixture and mix well to combine all the ingredients .
Now add the grated Grana Padano and season with salt and pepper. When the zucchini is cooked, add it to the batter and mix everything well with a spatula , then transfer the obtained mixture into a piping bag and place 12 paper cups in a muffin tin. Cut the 12 zucchini slices you set aside in half lengthwise and line the edges of the cups, using two halves for each muffin .
Add the batter, filling the molds up to the edge , and garnish each muffin with a cherry tomato . Bake everything in a preheated static oven at 355°F for about 30 minutes, until they are well risen and the surface is golden . Once baked, enjoy the savory muffins with ricotta and zucchini while they are still warm, or cold.
You can store savory muffins with ricotta and zucchini in the refrigerator, sealed in an airtight container, for a maximum of a couple of days. When serving, if desired, reheat them in the oven for a couple of minutes. It's possible to freeze the already cooked muffins and reheat them in the oven before serving.
If you wish, you can enrich your muffins by cooking the zucchini along with some diced bacon. This recipe is an excellent base for making savory muffins: if you do not like zucchini, you can fill them with your preferred vegetables following the same procedure. If you do not like ricotta, you can replace it with the same amount of Philadelphia or Greek cheese.

