name:
Pain perdu with caramelized apples
ingredients:
Apples: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Cinnamon powder: - half a teaspoon
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Moscato wine: 1.7oz(50 ml)
Stale bread: 12slices
Eggs: 2- medium
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 ml)
Sugar: 5tsp(20 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Egg yolks: 4
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Moscato wine: 4spoonfuls
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the pain perdu with caramelized apples, start with the apples: peel the washed apples, remove the core, and slice them not too thinly . Place butter in a pan, melt it, and add the sugar , then lay the apple slices .
Drizzle the apples with wine , add cinnamon , and cook them (without touching them with a wooden spoon to avoid breaking them) on very low heat until the apples are cooked and caramelized .
Now proceed to make the pain perdu: in a bowl, break the eggs and add the milk , vanilla extract , and sugar .
Beat everything with a fork to thoroughly combine the ingredients . Cut slices (not too large, if they are, cut them in half) of stale bread and melt enough butter to cover the bottom of a non-stick pan .
Dip the bread slices on both sides in the batter and place them directly in the pan to fry them . Let them brown well on both sides, turning them with tongs , and once ready, place them on kitchen paper towels to absorb excess oil.
In the meantime, prepare the zabaglione ( Zabaione (Egg cream) for further instructions) by beating egg yolks with sugar in a bowl placed over a double boiler using a whisk (16-17): add cinnamon and wine, one tablespoon at a time, always beating until completely absorbed. When the zabaglione is ready, you can plate everything: place three slices of bread one on top of the other on a serving plate, arrange some caramelized apple slices next to the bread, and finish by adding a couple of tablespoons of zabaglione : your pain perdu with caramelized apples is ready!
The pain perdu with caramelized apples should be consumed immediately.
For the best results, use stale bread rolls. Pain perdu can be enjoyed on its own or served with Nutella or jam.
In Canada, where it is called pain doré , pain perdu is served with maple syrup. Pain perdu is found in the gastronomic tradition of many other European countries: in England, it is French toast ; in Spain, it is called torrija ; in Portugal, it is a dish prepared during the Christmas holidays called rabanadas ; in Switzerland, it is known as croûte dorée ; in Germany, it is called Armer Ritter . In France itself, pain perdu takes on different names from region to region.

