name:
Herb gnocchi with leek cream
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- mealy
Aromatic herbs: 2spoonfuls- chopped (basil, parsley, chives, thyme)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Eggs: 1
Leeks: 12.5oz(350 g)
Vegetable broth: ¾cup(200 ml)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
White pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the herb gnocchi with leek cream, wash and boil the potatoes , whole and with their skins, for about half an hour in salted water (if you want to use a pressure cooker, it will take about 15 minutes). After this time, check the cooking of the potatoes, then drain them, let them cool slightly, and peel them while still hot . Pass them through a sieve (or potato ricer), letting the puree fall directly onto a work surface or into a large bowl. Finely chop the aromatic herbs (basil, parsley, chives, thyme) .
and add them to the potatoes , add the flour , the egg , and season with salt. Knead with your hands (not too long) until you get a homogeneous and fairly compact dough.
With the obtained dough, form "sticks" with a diameter of about 1 inch and cut them into pieces about 3/4 inch . Roll each piece on the special ridged wooden board (or on the prongs of a fork) to form the characteristic ridges of the gnocchi and the hollow underneath, which will help to better collect the seasoning. Place the gnocchi obtained in a cool place, laid on a clean and lightly floured cloth.
Now prepare the leek cream: clean, wash, and finely chop the leeks (only the white and tender part), then put them to soften in a pan with oil and butter for 15-20 minutes over very low heat (11-12),
then add the vegetable broth and continue cooking until they become very tender. Add the white pepper and adjust the salt if necessary, then blend everything until you get a cream . Boil the gnocchi in plenty of salted water (one serving at a time) for a few minutes
then, when they float, drain them and add them to the cream you have placed in a pan . Sauté them for a few seconds over medium heat to blend them with the cream, then serve them still hot .
You can store the herb gnocchi with leek cream, closed in an airtight container and kept in the refrigerator, for up to a couple of days. You can prepare the gnocchi in advance and freeze them before cooking: place them on a tray and then, once frozen, transfer them to suitable food bags. This way, you will avoid the gnocchi "sticking" to each other.

