name:
Rosemary bread
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2cups(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1 ½tsp(4 g)
Raisins: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Rosemary: 10tsp(15 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Water: 0.7cup(170 g)- warm
Egg yolks: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(100 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + rising time (about 3 h)

instructions:
To prepare rosemary bread, start by soaking the raisins in cold water . Heat the extra virgin olive oil with rosemary needles in a pan for 15 minutes over low heat (until the rosemary changes color). Using a strainer, filter the oil, remove the rosemary needles , and set aside.
In a bowl, place the Manitoba flour and plain flour , sugar , and salt .
Mix the dry ingredients with your hands , then dissolve the yeast in lukewarm water and pour it into the bowl .
Add the rosemary-flavored oil to the dough as well and start kneading to combine the ingredients . Add the drained and well-squeezed raisins , incorporate them into the dough and
transfer the mixture to a floured work surface . Continue kneading with your hands until you obtain a smooth dough that will not be very soft but compact . Place the dough in a bowl and let it rise, covered with plastic wrap, in a draft-free place for about 2 hours.
The dough won't rise much but will still be well-puffed . Divide it into 12 rolls of about 2.8 oz each , shape them into balls and
place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper to rise for another hour . After this time, brush the rolls with extra virgin olive oil and make cross-hatch cuts on the surface with a knife . Bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 20 minutes, then remove the rosemary bread from the oven, brush it with an egg yolk thinned with a couple of tablespoons of water , and put them back in the oven for the last 5 minutes of baking. Remove from the oven, let cool on a wire rack, and enjoy your rosemary bread!
Store rosemary bread for a couple of days under a glass dome. Freezing is not recommended.
The rosemary bread dough is not very soft and requires a lot of elbow grease to work. If you have difficulty, you can use a stand mixer with a dough hook. You can brush the rosemary bread before the last five minutes of baking with a syrup made with equal parts of water and sugar instead of egg.
Traditionally, rosemary bread was prepared only during Lent; for example, in Florence, it was found in bakeries only on Holy Thursday, before Easter, already blessed by the priest. Today, rosemary bread is prepared all year round.

