name:
Savarin
ingredients:
Milk: ½cup(120 ml)
Manitoba flour: 1 ¼cup(160 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(4 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.42cup(100 ml)
Manitoba flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Eggs: 14.1oz(400 g)- (approximately 9)
Sugar: 12tsp(50 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¾tsp(10 g)
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)- soft
Water: 8 ½cups(2 l)
Sugar: 4cups(800 g)
Orange peel: 6 ½tbsp(40 g)
Lemon peel: 3 ½tbsp(20 g)
Rum: 6.8oz(200 ml)
Fresh liquid cream: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Apricot jam: 0.67cup(160 ml)
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Strawberries: 3
Kiwi: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + 3 h of rising

instructions:
To prepare the savarin, start by making the starter: warm the milk and dissolve the yeast in it (if you use dry yeast, the dose is 4 grams). Add the dissolved yeast to the flour and knead, with a stand mixer equipped with a dough hook or by hand, the three ingredients until you obtain a smooth dough. Place it in a bowl, covered with plastic wrap , and let it rise for 2 hours in a closed oven with the light on, until the dough has doubled in size.
After two hours, prepare the savarin dough: place the starter together with the cream in the bowl of a stand mixer equipped with a paddle attachment (you can also knead everything by hand), half of the total amount of eggs (200 grams), and the flour . Turn on the paddle and knead until the ingredients are well combined; at this point, replace the paddle with the hook .
While the mixer is running, add a little at a time, alternating, the sugar and a piece of butter, softened at room temperature, at a time (7-8). When the sugar is finished and the butter has been completely incorporated, add the salt and
the remaining eggs, one at a time, waiting to add the next egg when the previous one has been absorbed . Knead everything at medium speed for about 40 minutes, until the dough detaches from the sides and is particularly elastic and soft . Grease a savarin mold very well, 4 inches high, with a diameter of 8-9 inches and a capacity of 6 cups . Pour the dough into the mold,
filling it halfway , and let it rise in a switched-off oven with the light on until the savarin reaches the edge of the mold, this will take about 1 hour . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 60 minutes. Unmold the savarin while still warm and let it cool on a wire rack .
Meanwhile, prepare the soaking syrup for the savarin: obtain 40 grams of orange zest and 20 grams of lemon zest, preferably untreated . Pour the water into a tall, narrow pot, add the sugar and the orange and lemon zests .
When the water boils and the sugar is dissolved, turn off the heat and add the rum, so it doesn't evaporate , then cover with a lid and let it infuse. Sieve the apricot jam, pressing a little at a time through the mesh of a sieve with the back of a spoon , and dilute it with 20 grams of syrup then set aside.
When the savarin has cooled, immerse it in the still warm syrup (about 104°F) on both sides and spoon over the sides so that it is completely soaked (22-23-24).
Let the savarin drain on a wire rack and continue to soak the top, using a ladle , to achieve even soaking. Brush the surface of the savarin well with apricot jam to glaze it .
Your savarin just needs to be garnished: whip the cream with powdered sugar and with a piping bag, decorate the sides of the savarin with swirls and fill the central hole. Finally, slice a strawberry and the kiwi, place them on the swirls of cream while placing the remaining two strawberries on top and glaze them with apricot jam . Your savarin is ready to be served : once at the table, cut it into slices and offer it to your guests!
The savarin can be stored either soaked or unsoaked. The baked, unsoaked savarin can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for a week; in the freezer for 60 days. The unsoaked savarin can also be dried, leaving it at room temperature on a wire rack overnight: this way it keeps in a tin box for a couple of months at room temperature. The already soaked savarin is stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container for 4-5 days; it can also be frozen and kept for a couple of months and thawed in the refrigerator when needed. The soaking syrup can be stored in the refrigerator covered for up to a month.
The savarin dough requires a lot of work: if you don't have a stand mixer, highly recommended for this recipe, you will have to work with elbow grease for the same times indicated in the recipe, using a whisk. Keep the pan on the lowest shelf of the oven, otherwise, the savarin will brown only on top and not underneath. You can prepare the savarin the day before and soak it the day after when it has completely dried. You can replace strawberries and kiwi with canned fruit or fresh seasonal fruit of your choice!
Created during the time of Napoleon III by the Julien brothers, the emperor's pastry chefs, the savarin is named after the gastronome Brillat-Savarin, who invented the rum syrup recipe in which the dessert is soaked.

