name:
How to prepare coulis
ingredients:
Powdered sugar: ⅓cup(50 g)
Raspberries: 1.1cups(250 g)- (or any other type of fruit)
Lemon juice: 2spoonfuls
Powdered sugar: 0.4cup(50 g)
Strawberries: 1cup(250 g)- (or other soft-fleshed fruit)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cluster tomatoes: 9oz(250 g)- ripe (or other vegetable as desired)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 3 min
Makes: pieces

instructions:
CLASSIC COULIS To prepare the fruit coulis, let the raspberries or other fruit soften in a non-stick pan over low heat for 2-3 minutes or until the fruit has released all its water (the amount of water will depend on the type of fruit). Add the powdered sugar, the strained lemon juice, and mix with a whisk until everything is well combined, then let it cook for another minute over low heat . Strain the obtained mixture with a sieve to remove any seeds: press well with the back of a spoon and collect the sauce in a small bowl. The fruit coulis is ready: we recommend using it to make an ice cream or spoon dessert more delicious!
RAW COULIS If you wish, you can also make the coulis raw, using soft-pulp fruit like kiwis, raspberries, or well-ripened strawberries. After thoroughly washing the fruit (in this case the strawberries), blend it with a mixer until you get a creamy consistency , then squeeze half a lemon and add two teaspoons of juice to the puree; this will help prevent the pulp from browning. Continue blending until you get a homogeneous puree ,
then strain everything with a sieve, pressing the pulp well with the back of a spoon to remove any seeds . Now add the powdered sugar , until you get the desired consistency, and mix well using a whisk. If you don't want to strain the fruit, you can use a food mill directly instead of the blender or mixer ; after completing this step, add the two tablespoons of lemon juice and powdered sugar to the obtained mixture. The raw fruit coulis is ready to be used!
To prepare the vegetable coulis, you can use the vegetables you prefer; tomatoes, peppers, and zucchini are recommended because they are more watery: in our case, we chose to use tomatoes. Take the tomatoes, wash them very well, and cut them into cubes . Place them in a non-stick pan with a drizzle of oil, then let them soften over low heat until they have released all their vegetative water . At this point, turn off the heat and strain the mixture with a sieve to remove the seeds and skins ,
season to taste with salt and pepper , drizzle with a little extra virgin olive oil raw , and mix everything well using a whisk. The vegetable coulis is ready to be used: we recommend serving it with meat or vegetable dishes!
You can store the fruit and vegetable coulis, closed in an airtight container and placed in the refrigerator, for a maximum of one day.
If you notice that the raw coulis is too liquid once strained, you can put it in a saucepan to thicken over low heat for a couple of minutes. Here are some ideas to use the fruit coulis: Chocolate pudding with raspberry coulis Panna cotta with raspberry coulis Cocoa tart with citrus curd and berry coulis Coconut panna cotta with raspberry coulis

