name:
Risotto with Shrimp
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.67cups(320 g)
Shallot: 2.1oz(60 g)
Carrots: 2.8oz(80 g)
White wine: 3.4oz(100 ml)
Butter: 2.5oz(70 g)
Shrimp: 10oz(280 g)
Shrimp: - shells and heads
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Onions: 2.1oz(60 g)
Carrots: ¼cup(30 g)
Celery: 1.1oz(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 6sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)
Chives: 9- stems

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the shrimp risotto, first clean the shrimp by removing their heads and shells, peeling them up to the tail . Separate the shrimp from the shells, which you will keep aside to prepare the stock. Wash and clean the vegetables for the stock well, chop them into chunks and sauté them over medium heat in a large pan with a drizzle of oil .
Add the shrimp shells and heads , cook for a couple of minutes, pressing the heads with a wooden spoon to release all the juices. Add the water and the parsley sprigs , then let it simmer over moderate heat. If necessary, you can adjust the salt to your taste.
While the stock cooks, take a non-stick pan and melt the butter in it , then soften the finely chopped shallot and carrot , with a ladle of water to soften the vegetables .
As soon as the sauté is ready, add the shelled shrimp , and sauté them over high heat; when they have released their liquid, deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate . Lower the heat and add the rice, which you will toast for a couple of minutes .
Meanwhile, strain the fish stock and add it, one ladle at a time, to the risotto . Cook the rice for about 18 minutes over moderate heat, adding more stock only when the rice absorbs the previous liquid. During this time, finely chop the chives .
Once cooked, remove the risotto from the heat, add the butter and the chopped chives (16-17), and cream the risotto. Serve your shrimp risotto immediately: enjoy your meal!
Store the shrimp risotto in the refrigerator in an airtight container for a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
The secret of this risotto, like all seafood risottos, is the stock: the tastier it is, the more delicious the risotto will be. If you love bold flavors and want to enrich it, you can add some tomato purée or concentrate.

