name:
Pettole
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Water: 2cups(500 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.4oz(10 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(10 g)
Vegetable oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 50 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the pettole, start by pouring the flour into a large bowl and crumbling the fresh yeast inside . Begin kneading with your hands by pouring room temperature water and mix until it is well absorbed. At this stage, you can assist with a pastry scraper; do not worry if the dough is sticky. Finally, add the salt .
Continue kneading until it is well absorbed . Now cover with plastic wrap and let it rise at a temperature of about 75-78°F for about 2 hours. After 2 hours, the dough will have tripled in volume .
Pour the oil into a pot and heat it until it reaches a temperature of 340-355°F. Dip 2 spoons in the seed oil and take a small portion of dough . Using one of the two spoons, let the dough slide into the hot oil, trying to form balls . Do not fry too many pieces at once to avoid lowering the oil temperature, this way you will achieve a dry fry.
Cook for 2-3 minutes until the pettole are well golden, then drain them with a slotted spoon and transfer them to a tray with paper towels, to remove excess oil . Continue in this way until all the dough is finished. The pettole are ready, enjoy them while still hot !
We recommend consuming the pettole freshly made; they will definitely be tastier when hot!
Depending on the area where they are prepared, there are many variations. Some add cooked potatoes, others add mashed pumpkin or boiled cauliflower.
In some areas, olive oil is used instead of seed oil, not necessarily extra virgin.
For softer pettole, water can be replaced with part milk.
Instead of all-purpose flour, semolina can be used, or the two flours can be mixed.
Pettole can be enjoyed plain, or enriched with sweet and savory ingredients. For a savory version, add about twenty sliced olives (black and green) to the dough. Or some anchovies. For a sweet version, simply roll the pettole in granulated sugar, or they can be coated in honey or must.
The secret of the softness of pettole lies in the energy used in working the batter. The dough should be fluid and smooth, never liquid, and should be lifted and beaten several times with hands on the bottom of the bowl where the processing takes place. This process allows as much air as possible to be incorporated, resulting in soft pettole.

