name:
Salmon pie
ingredients:
Smoked Salmon: 9.2oz(260 g)
Rye bread: 12.3oz(350 g)
Spinach: 1cup(50 g)
Cream cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Dill: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Lemon peel: ½
Milk: 1spoonful
Cream cheese: 1 ⅓cup(300 g)
Smoked Salmon: 3.5oz(100 g)
Lumpfish roe (caviar substitute): to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note More time to set in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the salmon pie, start by making the dill cream cheese: wash the dill and set aside some sprigs for decoration . Put the cheese in a mixer (you can also use an electric beater or a manual whisk), a tablespoon of milk to soften the cream, the dill , and the grated zest of half a lemon , then blend everything. You should obtain a soft and dense cream.
Assemble the pie: take a slice of rectangular bread (if of another shape, shape it as you prefer), place it on the cutting board, and spread it with cream , then add washed and dried spinach leaves and a few slices of salmon (5-6).
Cover with a slice of bread and continue with cream cheese, spinach, and salmon until all the ingredients are used up . Finish with a slice of bread and place the salmon pie in the refrigerator to firm up.
Prepare the topping cream: take 10.5 oz of cheese and blend it with the salmon and a tablespoon of milk until you obtain a very smooth cream , which you will place in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes to make it easier to spread. After this time, spread the cream over the surface of the bread and on the sides to cover the entire pie using a special spatula or a smooth-edged knife. Once completely covered, place it in the refrigerator for at least one hour to firm up.
Decorate your salmon pie with a teaspoon of lumpfish roe and a few sprigs of dill (13-14). Bring the whole salmon pie to the table and slice it before serving !
Store the salmon pie in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can replace Philadelphia with any other spreadable cheese or with crescenza. Instead of spinach, you can use grilled zucchini or cucumbers. If you prefer, you can sauté the spinach for two minutes in a pan with a drizzle of oil.

