name:
Savory doughnuts with potatoes and Emmentaler
ingredients:
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Manitoba flour: 2cups(250 g)
Brewer's yeast: 0.4oz(12 g)
Malt: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Potatoes: 10.6oz(300 g)- floury boiled and peeled
Fine salt: 1 ¾tsp(10 g)
Eggs: 1
Emmentaler cheese: 3oz(80 g)
Egg whites: 1
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low
Note Plus about 3 hours for the dough to rise

instructions:
To prepare the savory doughnuts with potatoes and Emmentaler, first boil the potatoes, drain them, and pass them through a food mill (or potato ricer) . Dissolve the yeast and malt in water.
Sift the two types of flour into a large bowl and add the dissolved yeast , egg, mashed potatoes , and oil .
Knead with your hands and add the salt ; continue to knead until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough . Place the dough in a bowl covered with plastic wrap and let it rise for about 2 hours in the oven turned off with the light on.
Meanwhile, cut the cheese into cubes . When the dough has doubled in volume , transfer it to a floured work surface and divide it in half .
Roll out the first piece with a rolling pin into a sheet half a centimeter thick and use a pastry cutter with a diameter of 2 inches to make 20 circles . Place them on a baking sheet or tray lined with parchment paper and lightly floured. Brush them with egg white and
fill them with a cube of Emmentaler . Roll out the other half of the dough in the same way and make the same number of circles, then place them on top of the others, pressing the edges lightly to seal them . Cover the baking sheet with plastic wrap and return it to the oven to rise for another hour .
Heat the seed oil (the temperature should be about 350°F) and when your doughnuts are puffy , fry them in hot oil (350°F) for a few minutes, turning them so they brown on both sides . Drain and place them on a tray with paper towels . Before serving, sprinkle with salt and black pepper: the savory doughnuts with potatoes and Emmentaler are ready to be enjoyed!
You can store the doughnuts in the fridge for up to 1 day. You can freeze the cooked doughnuts, although they won't be as crisp as freshly made. You can freeze the dough after the first two hours of rising, then once thawed, let it rise again and proceed as in the recipe.
If you want, you can cut the parchment paper into squares and immerse the doughnuts directly in the oil without detaching them because the parchment will come off on its own and will not compromise the success of your doughnuts! You can flavor the doughnuts by adding ground black pepper to the dough. You can also bake the doughnuts in the oven by brushing them with an egg yolk mixed with a few tablespoons of cream, and bake at 350°F for 15-20 minutes or until the surface is golden. If you bake them in the oven, you can garnish them with some poppy seeds.

