name:
Mini strudel with leek, speck, and Gruyère
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- (1 roll)
Gruyere cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Leeks: 6oz(170 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Speck: 3.5oz(100 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the mini strudels with leek, speck, and Gruyère, start with the filling: clean, wash, and dry the leeks, then finely chop them up to the tender part , and let them soften in a pan over low heat with the butter . Cut the speck into julienne strips and,
when the leeks are golden, add it to the pan , season with salt and pepper, and cook everything for 5 minutes. Meanwhile, grate the Gruyère into flakes and set it aside, take the puff pastry roll, and roll it out with a rolling pin
and cut it to obtain a rectangular shape, keeping the leftover edges aside . Cut 4 rectangles measuring about 8x6 inches and place a tablespoon of filling in the center
and a handful of grated Gruyère . First, fold the short sides inward and then the long sides, sealing all the edges with some water, then fold the pastry over itself (this way, you will prevent the filling from leaking out during cooking). With the leftover pastry, decorate the surface of the mini strudels: make strips with a pastry cutter and arrange them to form a lattice .
Beat an egg yolk with a tablespoon of cream and brush it over the mini strudels , which you will have previously placed on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, with the decoration facing up. Bake everything in a preheated, fan-assisted oven for 25-30 minutes at 356°F . Serve the mini strudels with leek and speck while still hot!
You can store the mini strudels with leek, speck, and Gruyère in the refrigerator, sealed in an airtight container, for up to one day. The mini strudels can be frozen once filled and still raw. When it's time to cook them, place them directly in the oven without defrosting, and slightly increase the oven temperature as they may be a bit watery.
Are you among those who think the filling is never enough, and, inevitably, your pantry is abundant with champignons? Gourmets! Clean and trim the mushrooms, then soften them by sautéing for a few minutes in a pan with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil: at this point, you can add them to the leeks, speck, and Gruyère. Bet they'll ask you for the recipe?

