name:
Grass pea soup
ingredients:
Dried Cicerchie peas: 2 ½cups(500 g)
White onions: 0.8cup(120 g)
Celery: 1rib
Tomatoes: 1
Potatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Vegetable broth: 2cups(0.5 l)
Salt: to taste
Pepper: to taste
Rosemary: 1sprig
Sage: 3leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 5spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus the soaking time for the grass peas

instructions:
To prepare the grass pea soup, start by soaking the grass peas for at least 24 hours , frequently changing the water. Once the necessary time has passed, drain the legumes, rinse them, and set them aside (2-3).
Now prepare a chop of onion and celery , then clean, wash, and dice the tomato and potatoes .
In a large pot, sauté two cloves of garlic over low heat in a couple of tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil ; when they have wilted, remove them and add the celery and onion . Cook them in the pan for about ten minutes over low heat, adding a bit of room temperature water if necessary to wilt without burning .
After the indicated time, add the potatoes, tomatoes , and grass peas , then season with salt and pepper. Cook everything for about 1 hour over low heat, adding broth from time to time and stirring often to prevent the mixture from sticking to the bottom of the pot.
Prepare an aromatic bundle by tying together rosemary and sage with kitchen twine, then add it to the soup , cover with a lid, and continue cooking for another hour over low heat . When the grass pea soup is ready, turn off the heat and remove the aromatic bundle. Serve the soup while it is still hot, garnishing it with a few sprigs of rosemary and a drizzle of raw extra virgin olive oil.
You can store grass pea soup in the refrigerator, sealed in an airtight container, for a maximum of 2-3 days. You can freeze the grass pea soup, sealed in an airtight container, and store it this way for up to 3 months.
If you like, you can garnish the grass pea soup with the addition of chili pepper. If desired, you can add a few bay leaves to the aromatic bundle.

