name:
Macaroni Pie
ingredients:
Rigatoni: 14oz(400 g)
Red onions: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Sausage: 0.67lb(300 g)
Vegetable broth: 0.4cup(100 ml)
Fior di latte mozzarella cheese: 10.5oz(300 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 2spoonfuls
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Frozen peas: 2cups(300 g)
Tomato purée: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Butter: ¾cup(200 g)
Water: 0.6cup(140 ml)- iced
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Pork: 10.5oz(300 g)- ground
Eggs: 2- medium
Bread: ¾cup(50 g)- (crumbled breadcrumbs)
Parsley: 1tuft- to chop
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1 ¼cup(100 g)- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus the resting time for the shortcrust pastry (40 minutes)

instructions:
To make the macaroni pie, prepare the Easy Shortcrust Pastry : put the flour, cold butter from the fridge, and a pinch of salt in a food processor and blend until you get a sandy and floury mixture. Place the mixture obtained on a cold work surface, in the classic fountain shape, and knead quickly, gradually adding cold water until you have a compact and elastic dough. Cover everything with cling film and let it rest in the fridge for at least 40 minutes. Now prepare the sauce: crumble the sausage with your hands and cook it in a non-stick pan for a few minutes , until it is browned; add the frozen peas , mix and add a ladle of broth . Let it cook for about 30 minutes over medium heat, stirring often to prevent the meat from sticking to the bottom of the pan. After the indicated time, turn off the heat and set aside.
In a separate pot, brown the finely chopped onion for a couple of minutes over low heat, along with 2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil, then add the tomato sauce . Continue cooking for a quarter of an hour and, in the meantime, prepare the meatballs: in a large bowl, put the minced pork, Grana Padano DOP, crumbled bread crumbs ,
then add two eggs , the parsley , and season with salt and pepper. Mix all the ingredients with your hands until you get a homogeneous mixture ,
then form small balls and place them on a tray covered with parchment paper . Once all the meatballs are prepared, cook them in the previously prepared sauce for about a quarter of an hour over low heat . At this point, bring plenty of salted water to a boil in a large pot and cook the rigatoni, then drain them al dente .
Add a generous ladle of sauce with the meatballs and the peas with sausage to the pasta. Cut a mozzarella into thin slices , then take the shortcrust pastry from the fridge and, with the help of a rolling pin, roll it out into two sheets not too thin.
Take a round baking pan with a diameter of 28 cm and line the bottom with a sheet of shortcrust pastry , pricking the surface with the prongs of a fork . Start assembling the pie by layering the pasta ,
the meatballs in sauce , the mozzarella, and the pasta again : continue this way until all the ingredients are used. Finally, sprinkle with plenty of Grana Padano DOP ;
And cover the surface with the second sheet of shortcrust pastry . Using a knife, trim the excess pastry , then seal the edges by gently pressing with the prongs of a fork or with your fingertips .
Create a hole in the center to allow steam to escape during cooking, leaving the crust crispy and not soggy. Beat one egg yolk with a little cream and brush it over the surface of the pie .
If you want to complete the pie with a nice decoration, you can decorate it with leaves made from the leftover dough, using a cutter (28-29). Cook the pie in a preheated static oven for 45 minutes at 356°F : the shortcrust pastry should be golden. Once cooked, let the macaroni pie cool slightly and serve it.
You can store the macaroni pie in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to a couple of days. The macaroni pie can be frozen once cooked, keeping it in an airtight container. To thaw it, put it in the refrigerator the night before, and once thawed, heat it in a static oven for 20 minutes.
If you want to enrich your macaroni pie, you can add hard-boiled eggs cut into slices or quarters (if you want a nicer effect, you can use quail eggs), béchamel, and diced bacon. You can omit the peas from the macaroni pie or replace them with carrots or other vegetables cut into small cubes of the same size as the peas, so they have more or less the same cooking time. If you don't want to use sausage, you can opt for bacon or minced meat. Instead of mozzarella, you can use provolone, caciocavallo, scamorza, or any other non-aged, soft cheese that melts into a gooey consistency during cooking.
The term 'maccherone' is also used to indicate a traditional fresh pasta shape, Homemade Macaroni !

