name:
Baguette with sourdough
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 2 ¾cups(340 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Water: 1.7cups(400 g)
Sourdough starter: 1.8oz(50 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.4tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: 2 ½tsp(16 g)
Type 0 flour: 1.3cups(160 g)
Water: 5.3tbsp(80 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.2oz(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note Over 12 hours of leavening for the biga + about 4 hours for the dough leavening

instructions:
To prepare the baguette with sourdough, start the day before by kneading the biga: dissolve 5 g of yeast in the water and arrange the flour in a mound, then gradually pour the water with the yeast into the center and knead with your hands to obtain a smooth dough .
Store the biga in a tall, slightly oiled container covered with plastic wrap . Let the biga rise for about 12 hours, after which it will have doubled in volume and will appear with large bubbles .
The next day you can proceed to prepare the actual baguette: dissolve the salt in 200 ml (about 7/8 cup) of warm water and the two grams of yeast in the remaining 200 ml (about 7/8 cup) of water (7-8). Mix the all-purpose and bread flours together in a bowl (you can use a stand mixer with a hook attachment or your hands to knead).
Add the biga , the sourdough , and gradually add the water and yeast mixture , kneading well.
Continue kneading, also adding the water with the salt: the result should be a smooth, soft, and homogeneous dough . Cover the dough with plastic wrap and let it rise for a couple of hours in the oven with the light on until it doubles in volume .
Divide the dough into 6 pieces of 200 g (about 7 oz) each , then roll each piece out with a rolling pin and roll them from the shorter side, pressing gently towards the center .
Let the obtained cylinders rest on a floured tray for 45 minutes to 1 hour, keeping the seam line facing down . After this time, roll the cylinders out again with the rolling pin and roll them this time from the long side .
Press with both hands and stretch the baguette to about 35 cm (approximately 14 inches), tapering the ends . Place the baguettes on a floured cloth, spaced apart by the folds of the towel, and let them rise for another hour . After half an hour, start preheating the oven to 250°C (about 482°F) and place a tray with boiling water at the bottom to create steam and make the oven humid; also heat the baking tray on which you will bake the baguettes.
Before baking, make decisive cuts along the surface of the baguettes with a razor blade and spray them with water using a nebulizer . Take out the hot baking tray and slide the baguettes onto it directly from the towel (be careful not to handle them too much to avoid deflating the rise). Lower the oven to 240°C (about 464°F) and bake the baguettes at this temperature for 30 minutes. When the baguette begins to brown, open the oven door a couple of times to let the steam dissipate and the bread surface dry to create the crust. Turn off the oven and leave the baguettes for another ten minutes; then take them out and let them cool on a rack : the baguette with sourdough is waiting for you!
The baguettes with sourdough can be stored until the next day wrapped in a paper bag and then kept in a plastic bag, or, like all bread, you can freeze them.
You can cover the baguettes with sesame seeds or poppy seeds by brushing the surface with oil before baking them. The rising times may vary depending on the strength of your sourdough, so be patient!
The origins of the baguette seem to date back to the mid-1800s when an Austrian baker opened a boulangerie in Paris and introduced a long-shaped bread, le pain viennoise, and new baking methods like the steam oven. Others report that baguettes were born during the Napoleonic era when bakers invented a bread that could be easily transported by soldiers during battles: the round bread typical of the time was not convenient to carry, while the baguette fit perfectly in a pocket of the pants length. In any case, the baguette became popular in the 1920s and 1930s when a French law established that bakers' working hours should not start before 4 AM, making it impossible to prepare the classic round loaf due to long rising and baking times. The baguette, thanks to its shape, required only a few minutes of baking, a shorter rise, and less storage: all this made the baguette the favorite bread of the French because it could be bought fresh every day without waste.

