name:
Creamy and Easy Semi-liquid Irish Coffee
ingredients:
Whole milk: ½cup(124 ml)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.67cup(150 g)
Sugar: 12tsp(50 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.1oz(4 g)
Whisky: 1.7oz(50 ml)
Coffee: 0.67cup(160 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note Plus 24 hours for cooling the cream and whiskey mixture

instructions:
To prepare the semi-liquid Irish coffee, heat the cream with the milk and sugar in a saucepan , cooking everything over low heat and stirring often, until it reaches a boil. Turn off the heat and in the meantime soak the gelatin in plenty of cold water for 5 minutes . Heat the whiskey in a saucepan over low heat for 5 minutes ,
then drain the gelatin, which will have assumed a gelatinous consistency, squeeze it well with your hands and add it to the whiskey ; stirring often to dissolve it completely. Combine everything with the cream mixture . Take four medium glass cups and pour 50 grams (about 1.76 oz) of the whiskey cream obtained into each; store them in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for 24 hours .
Meanwhile, prepare the coffee with the coffee maker: to obtain excellent coffee, fill the boiler of your coffee maker with cold water, preferably low in limescale, making sure not to exceed the safety valve (otherwise you'll get a longer coffee). Fill the filter with ground coffee, forming a mound that you will level by tapping the filter on the table with decisive movements (8-9). Do not press with the spoon, nor make holes on the surface.
Close the coffee maker very tightly , so that the coffee does not leak out from the sides as it rises, and place it on a low and steady flame to obtain a full-bodied coffee. As the coffee rises, a dense foam will form : we recommend not letting the coffee bubble too long to keep its sweetness and aroma intact. Your coffee is ready: before using it, stir it directly in the moka with a spoon to make the coffee more homogeneous. Take the glasses with the whiskey cream from the refrigerator and pour 25 ml (just over half a cup) of hot coffee on the surface of each , ensuring this operation is performed slowly, with the help of the back of a spoon, to avoid mixing the coffee with the cream.
We recommend consuming the Irish coffee immediately.

