name:
Spaghetti Arancini
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Butter: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)- to grate
Saffron: 1bag
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Beef: 7oz(200 g)- ground
White onions: ½
Frozen peas: 0.67cup(100 g)
Tomato paste: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Red wine: 3.4oz(100 ml)
Breadcrumbs: 4 ¼cups(500 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Water: 1 ½cup(360 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus the time needed to cool the pasta

instructions:
To make the spaghetti arancini, start by preparing the meat ragù: in a non-stick pan, melt the butter with a little oil over low heat , then add the finely chopped onion and let it brown for a few minutes. When the onion has softened, add the ground meat and brown it over high heat for 5 minutes ;
Then add the wine and let it evaporate . Dilute the tomato paste in a little water and add it to the meat , mix well, season with salt and pepper, and continue cooking for 20 minutes over moderate heat.
When the meat is almost cooked and the sauce has thickened, add the frozen peas and finish cooking, stirring often to prevent the ingredients from sticking to the bottom of the pot . Once ready, let the meat and pea ragù cool and place it in a bowl covered with plastic wrap, then store it in the refrigerator. Bring plenty of salted water to a boil and cook the spaghetti .
Meanwhile, dissolve the saffron powder in a little cooking water and add it to the pasta . When the spaghetti is cooked (we recommend not draining it al dente), drain it and place it in a baking dish with some oil to prevent it from sticking . Let it cool completely, then season it with butter ;
And grated Parmesan cheese , season with salt, and add the egg yolks . Mix all the ingredients well and proceed to cut the pasta roughly, using kitchen scissors .
Now cover the baking dish with plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator overnight . After the indicated time, remove the pasta and ragù from the refrigerator, then cut the scamorza into cubes . Start assembling the arancini by taking a bit of spaghetti and forming a ball, using two fingers to create a hole in the center ;
And add a teaspoon of ragù and a few pieces of cheese . Using the pressure of your hands, close the arancino and place it on a tray. Proceed in the same way until all the arancini are formed.
Cover everything with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator for about ten minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the batter by putting flour, water, and a pinch of salt in a bowl . Using a whisk, combine all ingredients until you have a smooth, lump-free mixture .
Heat the oil for frying and start passing the arancini, one by one, first in the batter and then in the breadcrumbs . When the oil is hot, begin frying them for 5-6 minutes at most , or until the coating is golden (to check if the oil is at the right temperature, do the toothpick test: dip the tip of a wooden stick into the oil, if you see it start to fry then it is hot enough). Let the arancini drain on a tray lined with absorbent paper so that they lose all the excess oil . Then your spaghetti arancini will be ready to be enjoyed!
We recommend consuming the spaghetti arancini on the same day. If you wish, you can freeze the arancini, still raw but already breaded. When ready to use, fry them frozen.
To successfully form the arancini, the mixture must be very compact; if you can't keep it together, add cheese and eggs as necessary. If you prefer, you can replace the scamorza with sweet provola or caciocavallo cheese.

