name:
Braids with Sourdough Starter
ingredients:
Butter: 40- at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Vanilla bean: 1
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Sourdough starter: 5.5oz(160 g)
Whole milk: (80 ml)
Eggs: 1
Fresh liquid cream: to taste
Granulated sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 5 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note Plus approximately 18 hours for leavening

instructions:
To prepare the braids with sourdough starter, first sift the flour then put it in a bowl with the sugar , the salt ,
the sachet of vanilla , the sourdough starter , and the grated lemon zest . The order of adding the ingredients can vary until you start kneading. Quickly mix the ingredients with your hands or with the paddle of a stand mixer.
Beat the egg in the milk with a fork and, while kneading, pour it into the mixture in the bowl , incorporating all the ingredients well. When the mixture is combined, if you are using a stand mixer, replace the paddle with the dough hook (or continue kneading by hand) and add the butter, softened at room temperature, one piece at a time , being careful not to add more butter until the previous one is absorbed.
You should obtain a smooth and soft dough : transfer it to a floured work surface to work it a bit more by hand then place it in a bowl covered with plastic wrap and let it rise in a closed and turned-off oven, with only the light on for about 16 hours. After the necessary time, your dough will have doubled in volume and will show a nice alveolation .
Divide the dough into 5 (or 6) equal parts, then further divide each part into three pieces , which you will roll into sticks and braid . Secure the ends of each braid well , which will be approximately 4 inches long. Alternatively, you can also form one large braid, dividing the dough into three parts.
Place the braids on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and brush with an egg yolk beaten with two or three tablespoons of cream or milk . Decorate with sugar granules and let rise for another 2 hours, in a turned-off oven with the light on, until they double in volume . Bake the braids in a preheated static oven at 350°F for around 25-30 minutes and take them out when they are nicely golden on top ! Your braids with sourdough starter are ready: taste how good they are!
The braids with sourdough starter can be stored for two days protected from humidity, but we recommend consuming them immediately to appreciate their fragrance. If you want to freeze them, you can do so when baked, then heat them directly from frozen in the oven to revive them (but of course, they won't be as good as freshly made), or when raw after braiding and let them defrost in the refrigerator and rise for the final two hours (or more depending on your starter).
You can enrich the braided dough with chocolate chips or dried fruit!

