name:
Porcini and Saffron Risotto
ingredients:
Porcini mushrooms: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Saffron: 1bag
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
White onions: 2.1oz(60 g)
Arborio rice: 1cup(320 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Garlic: ½tsp(3 g)
Parsley: 1tsp(5 g)- to chop
White wine: 0.3cup(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the porcini and saffron risotto, start by making the Vegetable broth ; once ready, focus on the How to Clean Porcini Mushrooms . Using a small knife, remove the excess dirt from the stem , then clean them with a damp cloth . At this point, slice the porcini mushrooms thinly .
Pour the oil into a pan, add the garlic clove , and let it turn golden over low heat. Add the porcini mushrooms and cook for a few minutes, stirring often and very gently, so as not to break them. Towards the end of cooking, adjust the salt, sprinkle with finely chopped parsley , and continue cooking for another 5 minutes over low heat.
Set the mushrooms aside and start making the risotto. Peel the onion, chop it finely , and transfer it to a saucepan with a drizzle of oil. Let it gently turn golden , then add the rice and let it toast, stirring often .
Once the rice has changed color, deglaze with the white wine , add a ladle of broth , and continue cooking, stirring often and adding more broth as needed. Pour the saffron into a glass and dissolve it by adding a ladle of hot broth .
Add the saffron to the risotto only towards the end of cooking and continue stirring to blend it well. Once the rice is cooked, adjust for salt and pepper, turn off the heat, stir in the Parmesan , and finally add the porcini mushrooms . Stir once more and serve your porcini and saffron risotto still steaming!
As with all risottos, it is advisable to consume the porcini and saffron risotto immediately. If there's any leftover, you can keep it in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to one day.
You can replace the porcini with the type of mushrooms you prefer. To prepare Mushroom Risotto all year round, you can follow the recipe for Mushroom Risotto with Dried Mushrooms !
If you wish, you can stir the risotto with a pat of butter for an even creamier result.

