name:
Minestrone alla milanese
ingredients:
Arborio rice: ½cup(100 g)
Verza (savoy cabbage): 1 ½cup(150 g)
Zucchini: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Carrots: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Onions: 1.8oz(50 g)
Celery: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Borettane onions: 5.3oz(150 g)
Potatoes: 5.3oz(150 g)
Borlotti beans: ¼cup(50 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 4.5oz(125 g)
Tomato purée: - 1 tablespoon
Garlic: 1clove
Sage: 6leaves
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Parsley: 1bunch
Lard: 1.1oz(30 g)
Pork rind: 1.8oz(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)- to grate
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note Plus 12 hours for soaking the beans

instructions:
To prepare Milanese Minestrone, soak the beans in water for at least 12 hours, then drain them . Finely chop the rosemary and sage together and separately the parsley.
Cut the lard into strips and the rind into very small cubes . Wash and, except for the onions which should only be peeled, dice all the vegetables: zucchini, celery, carrots, tomatoes , potatoes, and half an onion.
Cut the cabbage in half and remove the white, hard central part by cutting it out with a knife . Cut the leafy part into strips .
Now that all the vegetables are cut, proceed with cooking: in a large pot, pour the olive oil and sauté the garlic clove , which you will remove as soon as it is browned. Sauté the lard and chopped onion for a minute, then add the rind cubes, letting them fry for another couple of minutes to flavor the oil well .
At this point, you can slowly add all the vegetables: the potatoes , celery, carrot, and zucchini , then the beans , and stir with a wooden spoon.
Add the peeled onions , season with the chopped sage and rosemary , add the chopped tomatoes , and
finally add the parsley , stir with a wooden spoon , and add enough water to cover all the vegetables and salt. Cover with a lid and let it cook on low heat for 40 minutes.
After this time, add the tomato sauce , the cabbage , and the rice .
Cover again and let it cook for another 20 minutes ; finally, check that all the vegetables are cooked and that the broth is thick and fragrant , otherwise continue cooking for another 5-10 minutes. Remove the minestrone from the heat, season with pepper, and finish with grated Grana Padano PDO : here is the Milanese Minestrone ready!
Store the Milanese Minestrone in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for 1-2 days. You can also freeze it if you've used fresh vegetables.
To make the Milanese Minestrone even more delicious, you can add cheese rinds or Parmesan halfway through cooking so they melt: it will be a nice surprise for whoever finds them! To shorten the time, you can also use precooked beans, which should be added together with the cabbage and rice.

