name:
Linguine with clams
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 14oz(400 g)
Cockles: 6.6lbs(3 kg)
Parsley: 2tbsp(10 g)- to chop
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: 1pinch
White pepper: 1.3tsp(3 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.1cup(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare linguine with How to clean fasolari , start by opening the raw mollusks , holding them by the shorter side of the shell and cutting the two internal lateral muscles. Collect their water during the opening, detach the clams from the shells , rinse them if necessary to remove sand residues, and pound them with a meat tenderizer .
With a knife, coarsely chop the mollusks , strain the water collected from the clams through a sieve , and set aside the clams and the filtered water separately in two bowls.
Start preparing the sauce: in a pan, sauté the whole peeled garlic with a few tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil for a few minutes , then remove the garlic and add the clams' water , the sifted flour to make the sauce creamier , and add enough pepper to taste.
In a large pot, cook the bavette in plenty of salted water ; when the pasta is halfway cooked, add the clams to the sauce base you were preparing and mix everything together .
Flavor again with a bit of pepper and remember that the clams should only cook for a few minutes as the meat should remain tender. . Wash, then chop the parsley and add it to the sauce .
Drain the pasta al dente and toss it with the clam sauce to flavor and mix everything together . Adjust with more pepper to taste and serve your linguine with clams hot !
It is advisable to consume the linguine with clams on the same day, but if you want, you can store them in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for up to one day.
The addition of flour to the sauce is optional and only serves to make it creamier; if you don't like it, you can omit it. If you want, you can add a splash of white wine to the sauce for extra flavor in your linguine with clams!

