name:
Guinness Stew
ingredients:
Beef: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (priest's hat cut)
Guinness Stout: 1.4glasses(330 ml)
Thyme: 3sprigs
Fine salt: 2pinches
Black pepper: to taste
Paprika: 1pinch
Carrots: 1 ½cup(170 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Tomato paste: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Yellow onions: 2
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Parsley: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 2 h 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the Guinness stew, take a large piece of meat and cut it into slices about 3/4 inch thick , remove the fatty parts , and further cut them into cubes about an inch thick .
Clean and trim the onions and chop them coarsely , clean and trim the carrots and cut them into slices about 1/4 inch thick . Place the meat in a large bowl and add 2 tablespoons of oil
mixing well to ensure all the meat absorbs the oil well . In another bowl, put the sifted flour together with salt, pepper, and paprika . Add the seasoned flour to the meat and mix well so that all the meat is coated with flour (9-10).
Then heat a couple of tablespoons of oil in a non-stick pot, as soon as the oil is hot add the meat, brown it for at least 15 minutes over high heat, turning it from time to time . Dilute the tomato paste with about 3.4 oz of hot water .
Mash the garlic and add it to the previously chopped onions, then pour everything into the stew . Finally, add the diluted tomato paste . Mix the tomato well and let the meat cook for about 5 minutes. Now transfer the Guinness stew to another non-stick pot with high sides
and pour the Guinness into the pot where you previously browned the meat, this process will ensure that the beer collects all the flavors formed with the browning of the meat, let the beer evaporate over moderate heat for a couple of minutes . Pour the liquid thus obtained along with the meat , and add the sliced carrots .
Add the thyme leaves and cover everything with a lid . Cook the Guinness stew for at least a couple of hours over low heat, making sure to turn the meat from time to time until it is tender .
Boil the potatoes, peel them and put them in a food mill while still hot, salt the puree obtained and plate it, creating a ring in which you will pour the Guinness stew. Garnish as desired with a pinch of freshly chopped parsley. Serve the Guinness stew piping hot.
The Guinness stew can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container. The Guinness stew can also be frozen, always in a tightly closed container.
You can accompany the Guinness stew with Roasted potatoes .
Don't miss the recipe for goulash, a kind of brothy stew typical of Hungarian cuisine!

