name:
Ricotta and Spinach Candies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 2
Egg yolks: 1
Spinach: 8cups(250 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ½cup(125 g)
Salt: to taste
Nutmeg: 1pinch
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to grate)
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Sage: 6leaves
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note Plus the resting time of the dough

instructions:
To prepare the ricotta and spinach candies, start with the Homemade pasta (sheets and shapes) . In a bowl, pour the flour, holding back about 50 g to add as needed ; then add the eggs and mix everything inside the same bowl . When the eggs are absorbed, you can continue on a work surface and knead the dough until it is smooth and elastic.
Once ready, shape it into a sphere , wrap it in plastic wrap, and let it rest in a cool place with the light on for about 30 minutes. Focus on preparing the filling: boil the spinach in very little salted water or steam them or simply sauté them over low heat in a non-stick pan. Then squeeze them and chop finely . Once cooked and well-squeezed, the spinach will weigh about 3.5 oz.
Place the chopped spinach in a bowl where you will add the ricotta and grated Grana Padano PDO , nutmeg, salt, and pepper . Mix all the ingredients until you get a soft but compact mixture .
Roll out the egg pasta into a very thin sheet, which you will cut into rectangles measuring about 4x3 inches . In the center of each rectangle, place a scant teaspoon of filling and roll the sheet over itself on the longer side .
Now shape your candies: twist the right edge clockwise and the left edge counterclockwise, as if to close the wrapper of a candy . Trim the outer edges of both flaps with a fluted wheel .
Once you have shaped all the candies, place them on a floured board and let them dry for about an hour . Cook the pasta in salted boiling water for at least 5 minutes , meanwhile, in a pan, brown the sage leaves in melted butter . Once cooked, drain the candies and season with butter and sage and grated Parmesan cheese to taste. Your ricotta and spinach candies are ready to be served!
Ricotta and spinach candies keep for one day in the refrigerator. Alternatively, you can freeze them raw. For freezing, place the tray with the candies in the freezer to harden for a couple of hours. Once well hardened, put them in freezer bags, preferably already portioned, and store them again in the freezer. When you need to use them, boil them directly from frozen in boiling water and proceed as per the recipe.
Since the dough tends to dry out very quickly, shape the candies as soon as you have rolled it out, while it is still moist and workable, otherwise it will break when twisted, causing the filling to leak out.

