name:
Kamut® Pizza
ingredients:
Kamut® flour: 4 ¼cups(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.9oz(25 g)
Honey: 1spoonful
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Mozzarella cheese: 17.5oz(500 g)
Tomato purée: 1 ½cup(350 ml)
Oregano: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + the dough resting time

instructions:
To prepare the dough for Kamut® pizza, sift the Kamut® flour, place it in a mound on a work surface (or in a large bowl) and make a well in the center. Take a small glass bowl, pour a glass of lukewarm water into it, crumble in the yeast and the honey . Stir until everything is well dissolved, and pour the water and yeast mixture into the center of the flour .
Now, separately, dissolve 10 g of salt in another glass of lukewarm water; add the oil and incorporate them into the flour . Keep some flour and the remaining lukewarm water nearby, which you will integrate into the dough little by little, until you reach the desired consistency, which should be soft and elastic .
Continue kneading until you obtain a smooth and soft but firm dough, with which you will form a ball to place in a large bowl (remember that the dough will double in volume), adequately dusted with flour at the bottom. Cover the bowl with a clean cloth and place it in a warm place away from drafts, like your oven turned off. Wait for the dough to double in volume (this will take 1 to 1 1/2 hours), then proceed to roll out the pizza dough. Divide the dough into two parts and spread it on two previously oiled low-edged baking trays. Place the tomato sauce in a bowl and season it with 4 tablespoons of oil and salt .
Top the pizzas with the tomato sauce , a bit of extra virgin olive oil, and bake in a preheated oven for about 10 minutes at 482°F. Meanwhile, slice the mozzarella and place it in a colander to remove the preservation water. Take out the pizzas and sprinkle them with the mozzarella, coarsely chopped or sliced ; bake for another 5 minutes. After removing the Kamut® pizzas from the oven, sprinkle them with fresh basil leaves and serve immediately.

