name:
Polenta roll with sausage and mushrooms
ingredients:
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Corn flour: 2cups(250 g)- instant cooking
Fine salt: to taste
Sausage: 1lb(450 g)
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
Onions: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 6spoonfuls
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 5spoonfuls- to grate
White wine: 1glass
Champignon mushrooms: 7cups(500 g)
Tomato purée: 1cup(250 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: 3spoonfuls- chopped

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the baking time in the oven

instructions:
To prepare the polenta roll with sausage and mushrooms, start by peeling the carrot, garlic, and onion and then chop them together with the celery stalk: place the chopped mixture in a large pan in which you have heated 4-5 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil . Let it simmer on low heat for about 15 minutes without letting it take on color, then add the crumbled sausage and increase the heat a bit to brown the meat. Deglaze with a glass of white wine (at room temperature) and then add the ground pepper, the mushrooms well cleaned and sliced not too thin, and let it cook for about 10-15 minutes over low heat, adjusting the salt. When the mushrooms are tender, add the tomato and cook for a few minutes until the sauce dries up, then adjust the salt if needed,
add the chopped parsley , stir and turn off the heat. Prepare the polenta by pouring water into a pan (preferably non-stick) and bring it to a boil: add the salt and then the extra virgin olive oil, then pour the cornmeal into the boiling water, stirring vigorously with a whisk to prevent lumps from forming. Let it cook over low heat for at least 5 minutes, stirring continuously , then turn off the heat and
pour the polenta onto a rectangle of parchment paper measuring 12 x 14 inches, spreading and leveling it well . Pour the sausage and mushroom mixture over the rectangle of polenta , leaving aside two tablespoons for the final decoration; distribute the mixture over the entire surface, leaving a free border of 1-1.5 inches all around, then sprinkle with 4 tablespoons of grated cheese .
Using the parchment paper, immediately start rolling the polenta while it is still hot until it forms a cylinder that you will close with parchment paper and let rest for a few minutes with the end facing down, before placing it in an oiled baking dish with a tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil. Before baking, sprinkle the top of the roll with the sausage mixture, sprinkle it with a tablespoon of grated cheese and bake the polenta roll in a preheated oven at 392°F for about 20-25 minutes. After the necessary time, take the polenta roll with sausage and mushrooms out of the oven, let it rest for 10 minutes, and then serve it by cutting it into slices.

