name:
Stuffed Artichokes
ingredients:
Purple artichokes: 8
Eggs: 1
Fine salt: ¾tsp(5 g)
Black pepper: 1 ½tsp(3 g)
Vegetable broth: 0.4cup(100 g)
Breadcrumbs: ⅓cup(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 2tsp(2 g)
Beef: 0.7lb(300 g)- ground
Thyme: 2sprigs
Breadcrumbs: 1.3tbsp(10 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2tbsp(10 g)- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: ½tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the stuffed artichokes, put a pot of salted water on the stove that you will use for the Vegetable broth . Then proceed with the How to clean artichokes ; the first important operation is to rub your hands with lemon to prevent the substances in this vegetable from blackening your hands (alternatively, you can wear latex gloves). Remove the outer, tougher leaves, and continue until you reach the more tender ones . Once you reach the heart, remove the stem (2-3).
Trim the artichokes , then slightly spread the leaves by applying a little outward pressure , and remove the "choke" with a teaspoon or a melon baller (alternatively, you can also use a spoon).
As you prepare them, place the cleaned artichokes in a bowl with cold water and lemon juice to prevent them from browning . Continue with the preparation of the meat-based filling: place the minced meat in a large bowl with the grated cheese and the whole egg ;
season with salt and pepper, then finely chop the parsley and add it to the meat along with the thyme leaves .
Crush the garlic clove and finally add the breadcrumbs ; mix everything energetically with your hands to blend the ingredients well .
Put a pot with plenty of salted water on the stove and boil the artichokes for 10 minutes ; once ready, drain them and let them cool on a tray . Then gently fill the artichokes with 3 tablespoons of the meat filling you have prepared, being careful not to break them .
Once finished, arrange the stuffed artichokes in a baking dish or a baking pan next to each other and drizzle them with the vegetable broth . Finish by sprinkling a little breadcrumbs and a drizzle of olive oil on the surface ; cook them in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 25 minutes (or at 320°F for 15 minutes if in a fan oven), then put them under the grill for 5 minutes to achieve a crunchy golden surface. When they are ready, remove and serve your stuffed artichokes .
You can store stuffed artichokes for up to 2 days in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container. You can freeze them either cooked or raw, only if you have used fresh, non-defrosted ingredients.
Unleash your creativity! You can choose to use pecorino cheese instead of Parmesan for your filling or opt for other aromatic herbs such as oregano and marjoram.

