name:
Thai green curry
ingredients:
Green spicy Peperoncino: 6
Fresh ginger: - 4 cm of root
Shallot: 1
Fine salt: 1tsp
Coriander seeds: 1tsp
Cumin seeds: 1tsp
Garlic: 2cloves
Lemongrass: 2- (lemongrass)
Lime: 3leaves- (Kaffir lime)
Chicken breast: 14oz(400 g)
Eggplant: 1- long
Green beans: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh ginger: - 3 cm of root
Sugar: 1tsp
Coconut milk: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 2spoonfuls
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Coriander: 1tuft
Soy sauce: 2spoonfuls- (or Thai fish)
Onions: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the Thai green curry, first place the coriander seeds, cumin seeds in a pan, and toast them for a few minutes. Chop the lemon grass into pieces and slice the ginger .
Chop the garlic and shallot with a knife. Remove the seeds and internal filaments of the chili pepper and chop it finely .
Place all the ingredients in a mixer, add a few kaffir lime leaves , a teaspoon of salt , and blend until you obtain a homogeneous paste .
Chop the ginger with a knife, slice the onion , and cut the chicken breast into 1-inch long and 0.4-inch thick pieces .
In a large pan, heat the sunflower oil, add the chopped ginger and onion , and sauté for a few minutes. When the onion becomes transparent, add the chicken pieces and brown them until golden. Adjust with salt and pepper .
Meanwhile, cut the eggplant into 1/4-inch thick slices , trim the green beans and cut them in half . Remove the chicken from the pan and set it aside. In the same pan, pour the green curry paste, sauté for a few minutes, then deglaze with coconut milk .
Add water , the eggplants , and the green beans .
Add the sugar , soy sauce and cook for about 15-20 minutes or until the vegetables are cooked .
Add the chicken pieces , a few fresh coriander leaves , and a chili pepper previously sliced .
Plate it, and complete with chili pepper and fresh coriander . Your Thai green curry is ready to be served
You can store the Thai green curry in the refrigerator, in a closed container for 2-3 days. You can freeze it, in suitable freezing containers or freezer bags, for up to 2-3 months.
The Thai green curry is a dish that lends itself to endless variations and customizations. You can experiment with different types of meat, like beef or pork, or opt for a vegetarian version rich in tofu and seasonal vegetables. Each version offers a unique and equally delicious experience, allowing you to adapt the dish to your personal tastes and preferences.

