name:
Chocolate Cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Dark chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: 4.25oz(120 g)- cold
Egg yolks: 2.8tbsp(40 g)- (about 2)
Baking powder: ½tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 13 min
Makes: 50 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + the resting time in the fridge

instructions:
To prepare chocolate cookies, start by finely chopping the dark chocolate . Then transfer it to a bowl to melt it in a double boiler over very low heat ; make sure the pot's water does not come into contact with the chocolate. Let it cool slightly while you prepare the cookies' base: in a mixer, pour the flour .
Add the cold butter from the fridge cut into chunks and season with salt . Pulse the mixer to obtain a crumbly mixture that you will then transfer into a large bowl .
Add the sugar and the now lukewarm melted chocolate . Separate the yolks from the egg whites (the indicated yolk weight is important to achieve a perfect consistency); add the previously beaten yolks to the mixture , using a fork.
Add the baking powder and work the ingredients with your hands, which should be very cold, trying to perform the operation quickly so as not to heat the mixture too much. Continue kneading until you get a homogeneous and lump-free dough: then cover it with transparent plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes. After this time, remove the mixture from the fridge, remove the plastic wrap, and place it between two sheets of parchment paper. This precaution prevents the use of additional flour to roll out the dough. Flatten the dough with a rolling pin to a thickness of about 0.4 inches .
Once you have the desired thickness, take a cookie cutter with a diameter of 1.5-2 inches and start cutting the dough . Transfer the cookies thus obtained onto a baking tray lined with parchment paper. To move them, you can use a spatula to avoid leaving fingerprints on the sides or surface of the cookies. Bake your chocolate cookies in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 13 minutes (if using a convection oven, you can bake them at 320°F for 5-6 minutes) . You can test the time and temperature for your oven by baking a first batch with a few pieces.
Once the baking time has elapsed, remove them from the oven and let them cool for at least 2-3 minutes. Then transfer them to a wire rack to cool for at least 15 minutes. You can always use a spatula to place them on the rack if you prefer, as they will not be perfectly set yet: once cold, the texture will be crumbly. Your chocolate cookies are now ready to be enjoyed !
Chocolate cookies can be stored in a tin box for about 10 days.
The shortcrust dough wrapped in plastic wrap can be frozen in a block for about 1 month. You can also divide it into smaller portions so you can defrost only what you need to make cookies.

How to make this timeless delight original and tastier? Flavor the dough with the zest of an untreated orange or lemon and, why not?!, with a few drops of vanilla essence!

