name:
Stuffed Easter Eggs
ingredients:
Eggs: 12
Potatoes: 0.5lb(200 g)
Carrots: 1
Mustard: 3tsp
Mayonnaise: ½cup(100 g)
Cream cheese: 2oz(60 g)
Sesame seeds: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the Easter stuffed eggs, first boil the eggs. Place them in a pot with cold water. Cook over medium heat for 7-8 minutes from the boil . Also, cook the potatoes, starting from cold water, for about 30 minutes from boiling . When the eggs are cooked, drain them and cool them under cold running water .
Peel the eggs and collect them in a baking dish as you go . As soon as the potatoes are cooked, let them cool and peel them. When the eggs are also cool, cut off the top (about a quarter of the egg) to create the container and the lid.
Remove the hard yolk using a scoop or a teaspoon . Trim the top part of the egg white you set aside to make it slightly smaller.
Gather the yolks inside a mixer ; also add the egg white scraps and the peeled potatoes, diced .
Blend the mixture until you get a cream . Transfer it to a bowl, add salt and pepper to taste; also add mustard .
Add the cream cheese , mayonnaise and mix well .
When you have a homogeneous mixture , transfer it into a piping bag with a 12 mm plain nozzle. Peel the carrot and cut it into thin slices . Cut the two sides of the slice to obtain a triangle with a curved side .
Carve the inside to make the first chick's foot . Repeat the operation until you get 24 feet . Cut the small triangle in half to obtain the beaks .
Now assemble the Easter stuffed eggs. Place the feet on a plate , place the egg white container on top and fill it with the egg and potato cream . Place the egg white lid .
Create the eyes with black sesame seeds and add the beak . Your Easter stuffed eggs are ready , store them in the fridge until serving time.
The Easter stuffed eggs can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If the eggs do not appear stable, you can trim the bottom to make them flat.
To attach the little feet, you can use the filling itself or the creamy spreadable cheese.

