name:
Pita
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2cups(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 2tsp(10 g)
Malt: 0.4oz(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.67tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1.8tsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + at least 3 hours and 10 minutes of rising in total (the cooking time refers to all pieces)

instructions:
To make the pita, mix the all-purpose flour and bread flour in a bowl , then add the crumbled fresh yeast and the malt .
Pour the water slowly and mix with your fingertips to combine the ingredients , then move to the work surface and continue to knead the dough .
When you have a homogeneous mixture, add the salt and knead again to incorporate it . Finally, add the oil in 2 or 3 additions , working until fully absorbed .
At this point, cover the dough with a bowl and let it rest for 10 minutes . After this time, knead the dough again to form a ball and transfer it to a large oiled bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for about 2 hours ; during rising, the dough should almost triple in volume.
Transfer the risen dough to the work surface and shape it into a loaf, then divide it into 6 portions of about 5 ounces each . Fold the edges towards the center, then roll them on the work surface to form each into a ball .
Place the balls on a tray greased with a little oil , cover with plastic wrap or a dish towel, and let rise for another hour. After the rising time, flatten each ball on a lightly floured surface, first with your fingers and then with a rolling pin until it's 8 inches in diameter.
Once all are ready, proceed with cooking: heat a little oil in a non-stick pan and place the pita inside . Cover with a lid and cook over medium-low heat for 2-3 minutes , then remove the lid and flip it to the other side .
Press with a wooden spoon to release the air from the bubbles that form, and continue cooking for another 3-4 minutes . As they are cooked, stack the pitas on a plate and cover them with a towel. Your pita is ready to be enjoyed !
The pita can be stored in a food bag for 2-3 days.
It is recommended to heat them in a pan before serving. If you freeze them, let them thaw in the refrigerator before reheating.
Malt helps with rising and can be replaced with the same amount of sugar or honey.
The dough can also be prepared with a stand mixer fitted with a hook.
Cooking in a pan with a lid allows for a softer pita, but if you prefer, you can skip this step.

