name:
Gyros
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Manitoba flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Brewer's yeast: 0.9tsp(4 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(12 g)
Malt: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Iceberg lettuce: 3 ½cups(200 g)
Black pepper: to taste
White onions: 1
Pork loin: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Cluster tomatoes: 7oz(200 g)
Fried potatoes: 14.1oz(400 g)- frozen
Cucumbers: 1
White wine vinegar: 2spoonfuls
Garlic: 4cloves
Dill: 3sprigs
Greek yogurt: 1.67cups(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note More than 2 hours and 40 minutes for the pita dough to rise

instructions:
To prepare gyros, start by finely slicing the meat, using a slicer because it needs to be very thin , and cut the slices into smaller pieces . Line a baking tray with parchment paper, oil it
and place the pieces of meat on top . Season them with a sprinkle of black pepper and bake them in a preheated oven at 350°F for 30 minutes : the meat should be well-cooked and crispy.
Prepare the pitas following the procedure you find Pita (Pita) and once baked, keep them under a glass dome until ready to use . Fry the fries and keep them warm, then transfer the meat to a bowl and get the tzatziki , which you’ve already prepared following the instructions found Tzatziki (Tzatziki).
Cut all the vegetables that will be used to fill the gyros: wash the tomatoes and slice them , wash the lettuce and cut it into smaller pieces , and finely slice the white onion .
At this point, you can assemble your gyros: on each pita, spread a tablespoon of tzatziki , fill with some lettuce, tomato slices, and a few onion strands . Add the meat and a few fries to complete. Close the gyros starting from the bottom, heat it for a few minutes in the oven, and serve it hot!
Gyros originally serves as a quick street food that should be consumed immediately.
You can enrich the gyros with a few slices of cucumber and a spicy sauce!
Looking for a tasty variation? Try the recipe for Chicken skewers with pita !

