name:
Swordfish in Salmoriglio
ingredients:
Swordfish: 1.1lbs(480 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.4cups(300 g)
Oregano: - a few leaves
Lemons: 2
Parsley: 4tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 3 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus the time needed for marinating

instructions:
To prepare swordfish in salmoriglio, start with the marinade: rinse and thoroughly dry the parsley, then finely chop it and set aside. Cut the lemon in half and squeeze out the juice , filtering it through a fine mesh strainer : you should get about 130 ml (approximately 4.4 oz).
Now pour it into a large bowl for the marinade , adding the oil , and seasoning with salt and pepper.
Using a flat whip whisk (if you don't have one, a hand whisk or mixer will work), emulsify the ingredients until the salt and pepper are fully dissolved. At this point, add the chopped parsley and crush the garlic inside .
Also, add the oregano leaves and whisk the mixture again vigorously with the flat whisk : you should obtain a homogeneous emulsion. At this point, cut the swordfish into slices about 1 cm (approximately 3/8 inch) thick : you should get about 4 slices, each weighing around 4.2 oz.
Transfer them to the bowl with the marinade, ensuring they are completely covered , and cover with clear plastic wrap . Place in the refrigerator and let marinate for at least 1 hour. After the necessary time has passed, remove the fish from the fridge, discard the plastic wrap and let the swordfish fillets drain (do not discard the marinade: you will need it later). Then place them onto a preheated pan
and cook the fillets for 4-5 minutes over low heat, turning them only once : they should be lightly golden on each side. Meanwhile, pour the marinade (salmoriglio) into a non-stick saucepan with high sides and cook it for about 5 minutes over low heat : this way you will reduce the marinade, making it thicker and richer. At this point, both the swordfish and the marinade will be ready: place the swordfish slices on a plate and serve your swordfish in salmoriglio with a jug containing the marinade !
It's advisable to consume the swordfish in salmoriglio immediately, but you can also store it in the refrigerator covered with clear plastic wrap for up to 1 day. The marinade can preserve the fish for up to a maximum of 12 hours. Freezing is not recommended.
A top preparation? Be careful not to overcook the swordfish, as it may become tough, and accompany it with a simple salad! However, you can also flavor the salmoriglio with other aromatic herbs of your choice, such as rosemary sprigs, which will add a more intense aroma to the marinade!
Salmoriglio is a typical sauce from the Sicilian ( salmurigghiu ) - Calabrian ( salamarigghiu ) culinary tradition and is used indiscriminately to season grilled dishes, appetizers, and main courses of meat and fish. In some cases, like the one we propose, salmoriglio is reduced over heat to obtain a creamier consistency.

