name:
Pork tenderloin with wine sauce
ingredients:
Pork filet: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (4 fillets)
Vegetable broth: 2mestoli
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)- dry
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Red wine: 1.8cups(430 g)- dry
Shallot: 2
Rosemary: 1sprig
Thyme: 1sprig
Butter: ½cup(100 g)- cold
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Garlic: 1clove
Ground black pepper: 5
Golden delicious apples: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pork tenderloin with red wine sauce, start by tying the tenderloins with kitchen twine, so they retain their shape while cooking . Begin preparing the wine sauce: pour chopped shallots into a saucepan with herbs, garlic, and peppercorns .
Pour the red wine and add two bay leaves . Bring to a boil until it reduces, which will take about 10 minutes over medium-high heat .
Strain with a sieve , pour the wine back into the same pot and return to the heat until the sauce reduces again, about 10 minutes. Remove the pot from the heat and gradually add cold butter .
Use a whisk to mix and melt the butter well . Set the wine sauce aside and focus on the apples. Cut them in half and remove the core , then slice them into wedges without peeling .
In a large pan, melt the butter and season with thyme and rosemary sprigs . Salt and pepper and let it cook over medium-high heat for about 15 minutes.
Avoid stirring but turn them with tongs . Once the apples are cooked, remove and keep them warm . In the same pan, place the tenderloins that you tied earlier .
Sear over medium-high heat on all sides. Salt and pepper the meat. Deglaze with white wine . Let the wine evaporate and continue cooking with vegetable broth for about 10 minutes.
The tenderloin should reach an internal temperature of at least 149°F , monitored with a meat thermometer. Once cooked, plate the tenderloins with the apples and keep the sauce warm . Serve the pork tenderloin with the wine sauce immediately
We recommend consuming the pork tenderloin with wine sauce immediately.
If you don't have a thermometer, you can cook the tenderloin for 10-12 minutes after deglazing with wine and try cutting a tenderloin in half to check doneness.
The red wine sauce can be prepared a day in advance and stored in the fridge. You can use hot water instead of broth to moisten the meat. For the red wine sauce, it's recommended to choose a full-bodied red wine.

