name:
Tropea Onion Compote with Balsamic
ingredients:
Red Tropea onions: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (approximately 6-7 onions)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Balsamic vinegar: 7tbsp(100 g)
Wildflower honey: 1 ½tsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the Tropea onion compote with balsamic, start by cleaning the onions: wash, trim, and slice the onions (for this operation, we recommend using disposable gloves to avoid the onion smell on your hands). Take a saucepan, add the onions and balsamic vinegar , then let them soften for 10 minutes on low heat, stirring frequently .
When the onions are softened, add the honey and sugar and let cook for about 45 minutes on very low heat, continuing to stir often ; check that the compote remains soft and does not tend to "caramelize." After the indicated time, check the cooking by performing the saucer test: pour a teaspoon of Tropea onion compote with balsamic on a tilted saucer, it will be ready if it does not tend to drip but remains rather compact and homogeneous; otherwise, let it cook a little longer.
Now take care of sanitizing the jars (7-8): follow the instructions of the Ministry of Health indicated at the end of the recipe. Jar the Tropea onion compote with balsamic, being careful to leave 1 inch of space from the top, then close the jars well. Once the compote is in the jars, seal and proceed to boiling, or pasteurization, always following the instructions of the ministerial guidelines. Finally, check that the vacuum has formed correctly: if you do NOT hear the "click clack" when pressing the lid, it means the vacuum was done correctly. Once ready, store the Tropea onion compote with balsamic in a cool, dry place and, when serving, put it in a bowl and accompany it with good aged cheese .
Store the compote in a cool, dry place and, once opened, in the refrigerator.
You can also serve the compote with roasted meats or fish.
The homemade preparation of preserves and jams can present health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the necessary conditions and measures to ensure food safety and suitability, which industrial procedures can ensure to prevent dangerous contamination. It is, therefore, important to scrupulously follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it should always be kept in mind that the same food safety as professionally produced preserves and jams cannot be achieved. For proper preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the Ministry of Health guidelines .

