name:
Penguin ice cream
ingredients:
Milk: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(125 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Sugar: ⅔cup(125 g)
Dark chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
White chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low
Note More cooling time in the freezer

instructions:
To prepare penguin ice cream, first, make the cream ice cream: pour the milk into a saucepan, add the sugar, cream, and opened vanilla pod , then mix and heat the mixture to no more than 185°F. Once the temperature is reached, immediately place the saucepan in a container with ice water to quickly lower the temperature of the mixture , and once cold, pour it into an ice cream maker and churn for at least 30 minutes until the mixture is thick and creamy . To see the cream ice cream guide Vanilla Ice Cream
Now prepare everything you need to make your penguin: you will need to get silicone molds and ice cream sticks . Fill the molds with the ice cream , level it well, tap the mold a little to avoid forming bubbles, and finally insert the sticks . Let the ice creams firm up overnight in the freezer.
After this time, melt the dark and white chocolate in a bain-marie or microwave (7-8) and let it cool to room temperature. Take the ice creams out of the freezer and unmold them .
Dip 3 ice creams in the dark chocolate, being careful to seal the bottom well with the chocolate, leaving no open spaces or holes from which the ice cream might leak out (10-11). Let them cool in the freezer placed on a baking sheet for at least an hour. If you want to decorate them with chopped hazelnuts, sprinkle them on the chocolate as soon as you dip them, otherwise, the chocolate hardens immediately .
The remaining 3, dip them in white chocolate, again sealing the bottom well (13-14). Immediately place your penguins in the freezer on a baking sheet for at least an hour. Once cold, you can decorate them with the leftover dark chocolate. And here is the penguin ice cream ready to be enjoyed!
You can store penguin ice creams in the freezer for up to 15 days, placed on a baking sheet.
You can also decorate your penguin ice cream with chopped pistachios or almond flakes, according to your tastes! You can make the penguin with your favorite ice cream: chocolate or fruit! To make this recipe, it is essential to have the proper ice cream molds, which can be found in the best home goods and pastry shops.

