name:
Linguine with confit cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 14oz(400 g)
Breadcrumbs: 0.1cup(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Anchovies: 0.5oz(15 g)
Basil: 4leaves
Cherry tomatoes: 3cups(500 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: 8tsp(8 g)
Oregano: 1tsp(3 g)- dried
Fine salt: ⅓tsp(2 g)
Pepper: 0.4tsp(2 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Sugar: ¼tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 2 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare linguine with confit tomatoes, start by washing the cherry tomatoes and cutting them in half . Also, prepare some thyme and coarsely chop the garlic .
In a small bowl, combine the garlic and thyme and mix them together with the oregano. Meanwhile, place the cherry tomatoes cut side up on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and sprinkle them with the herb mixture . Dust the cherry tomatoes with sugar, pepper, and salt .
Finally, drizzle with extra virgin olive oil . Cook the seasoned cherry tomatoes in a preheated fan oven at 284°F for about an hour and a half: they should wilt, soften, and dry slowly . Then proceed with the rest of the sauce for the pasta: heat the oil in a large non-stick pan and add the anchovies .
Let them melt over low heat, then add the breadcrumbs and let them toast for a few minutes. In the meantime, cook the linguine in plenty of salted boiling water , and drain them al dente .
Then combine them with the toasted breadcrumbs in the pan and add a ladle of pasta cooking water . Also, add the confit cherry tomatoes .
And the basil torn into pieces . Sauté the linguine with confit cherry tomatoes for a few minutes , then plate them and enjoy them hot !
The linguine with confit cherry tomatoes should be consumed immediately after preparation. The confit cherry tomatoes can instead be stored for about ten days, placed under oil in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
The term "confit" is a French term derived from the verb "confire," which means to preserve. "Confit" refers to any preparation of fruits and vegetables that involves prolonged cooking at low heat, with sugar or vinegar.

