name:
Tuna in oil
ingredients:
Tuna: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Water: 8glasses(1 l)
Fine salt: 12 ¾tsp(75 g)
Juniper: 6berries
Bay leaves: 6leaves

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Average
Note Plus the time needed to drain the tuna once cooked (about 24 h)

instructions:
To prepare tuna in oil, start by placing the raw tuna steak in a bowl containing cold water, rinse it repeatedly so it loses all the blood to prevent it from coagulating during cooking and forming unsightly dark lumps . Repeat the operation, changing the water until it is clear and the tuna is completely blood-free . Separately, bring a large pot of water and salt to a boil ,
and when it reaches a boil, add a few bay leaves to taste. The salt and bay leaves will flavor the tuna, which would otherwise remain bland. At this point, add the tuna and let it cook over medium heat for about 1 hour .
After the necessary time, drain it and let it drip in a colander inside a bowl for 24 hours, so that it loses all excess water . When the tuna is completely dry, proceed to sterilize the jars where you will store the tuna in oil, as indicated in the Ministry of Health guidelines found at the end of the recipe. Place the jars in a pot full of water to boil for about 30 minutes , then let them dry completely, upside down on a clean cloth .
Coarsely break the tuna into pieces and place it in the jars, pressing well with your hands . Cover it with extra virgin olive oil, taking care to cover the tuna completely but leaving 0.4 inches from the jar's rim and,
with the help of a knife, shred the tuna to ensure it is completely soaked in oil . On the surface of each jar, place 3 juniper berries and a bay leaf , then seal tightly by inserting the special plastic press as seen in the photo ; this will keep the tuna pressed down (if you do not have the presses, you can omit them).
Close the jars and proceed with the reboiling following the instructions in the Ministry of Health guidelines mentioned at the end of the recipe. If after reboiling you notice the formation of small air bubbles, when the jar is still warm, gently tap it on a surface to bring the bubbles to the top, where they will naturally disappear. When ready to consume the tuna in oil, you can test the vacuum seal by pulling the special tab: if pulling it produces a sharp noise, it means the contents have been preserved with the correct vacuum seal. Conversely, if pulling the tab the seal feels "soft," it means the vacuum seal was not created correctly, and it is best not to eat its contents. Your tuna in oil is ready to be enjoyed!
Tuna in oil can be stored for up to 3 months, provided the vacuum sealing was done correctly and the jars are kept in a cool, dry place away from light and heat sources. It is recommended to wait at least 1 month before consuming the tuna. After opening the jar, store it in the refrigerator and consume it within 4-5 days maximum, topping off with extra virgin olive oil to prevent the tuna from drying out.
To achieve a lighter preparation, you can fill the jars with half the quantity of olive oil and half seed oil. To your liking, you can flavor the tuna by placing whole peppercorns in the jar instead of juniper berries.
The homemade preparation of preserves and jams can present health risks. In a domestic setting, it is not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to guarantee the safety and suitability of the foods, which industrial procedures can ensure to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to follow food safety guidelines carefully to reduce risks, but it should always be remembered that the same food safety level as professionally produced preserves and jams can never be achieved. For the correct preparation of homemade preserves, refer to the Ministry of Health guidelines .

