name:
Meringue Cherry Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Butter: ½cup(125 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Cherries: 3 ¼cups(1 kg)
Lemon juice: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Agar agar: 1tsp(5 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Egg whites: ¼cup(60 g)
Sugar: 0.625cup(125 g)
Water: ¼cup(60 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the meringue cherry cake, first make the compote. Wash and pit the cherries , place them in a pot and add the sugar , the seeds from the vanilla bean ,
the whole bean, and the grated zest of one lemon . Then squeeze the lemon , strain the juice, and pour it into the pot .
Mix the mixture with a spatula , and let it cook over medium heat until it boils. Then take a bit of the cherry liquid from the pot, dissolve 5 g of agar-agar in it, and add it to the mixture to achieve a thicker consistency. At this point, lower the heat and let it cook for at least 40 minutes , stirring occasionally, until it reaches a temperature of 226°F using a kitchen thermometer .
When it reaches this temperature, the compote will be ready, so remove the vanilla bean and set aside to cool . Meanwhile, prepare the shortcrust pastry. Start with the sanding: in a blender, place the sifted flour , a pinch of salt, and the butter just taken out of the fridge, coarsely chopped. Blend everything until you get a sandy and floury mixture ;
Pour the obtained sanding on a work surface and add the sifted powdered sugar . Create a fountain shape and pour the grated lemon zest and the egg yolks in the center.
Then start mixing everything first with a fork , then when the eggs have absorbed the flour well, you can continue by hand . Knead briefly, just enough to compact the dough, to prevent the pastry from heating too much with the warmth of your hands and remaining crumbly. Form a dough ball and flatten it before wrapping it in plastic wrap ;
place it in the refrigerator to firm up for at least 30 minutes. After 30 minutes, roll out the shortcrust pastry with a rolling pin to a thickness of about 1/2 inch , then place the dough in a 9-inch diameter mold , remove the edges protruding from the mold ,
then prick the dough with a fork, cover the mold with a piece of parchment paper and pour ceramic baking beads, then proceed with blind baking . Bake for 30 minutes at 356°F in a preheated static oven (if using a fan oven, bake for 20 minutes at 320°F), then remove the beads and bake for another 10 minutes removing also the parchment paper to brown the base .
Now focus on preparing the meringue. Pour the water into a small saucepan, add the sugar and cook over low heat , stirring to dissolve it. Insert the food thermometer and continue cooking until it reaches 250°F. When the syrup temperature reaches 237°F, place the egg whites in a stand mixer with a whisk attachment ,
and whip them at medium speed . When the syrup reaches 250°F, lower the speed of the mixer (to avoid syrup splattering on the walls of the bowl), pour half of the syrup into the egg whites and then increase the speed again. Wait a few seconds, then continue pouring the syrup in a thin stream and whip until the meringue cools completely. The obtained meringue should be very dense, smooth, and shiny ,
so once ready, transfer it to a piping bag with a star nozzle . Take the baked shortcrust, pour the now lukewarm cherry compote over it and level it well .
Decorate with the prepared meringue until covering the entire surface of the cake and bake for 3-4 minutes at 464°F, just enough to brown the meringue. Your meringue cherry cake is ready to be enjoyed !
You can store the meringue cherry cake for 2-3 days covered in the fridge. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can flavor the pastry with orange zest or vanilla instead of lemon. You can also prepare and bake the base and the cherry compote the day before to get a head start on making this delicious cake!

