name:
Mini salmon cheesecakes
ingredients:
Cracker: 5.3oz(150 g)- salty (like Tuc)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)
Cream cheese: 1 ⅓cup(300 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Smoked Salmon: 5.6oz(160 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(9 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.6cup(150 ml)
Fine salt: to taste
Smoked Salmon: 2slices
Dill: - a few sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low
Note 3 hours of rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the mini salmon cheesecakes, start with the bases: finely blend the salted crackers in a food processor until you get a powdery texture . Then add the melted butter and mix it with a spoon . Take a muffin tin and line it with paper liners: distribute the mixture obtained in the liners (a generous tablespoon for each liner) and flatten the bases with the back of a teaspoon . Place everything in the refrigerator to cool for at least half an hour.
Then proceed by preparing the cream: soften the gelatin sheets in a bowl of cold water ; in the meantime, take a large bowl and combine the Philadelphia cheese with the ricotta, mix very well to blend the two cheeses . In a small saucepan, heat 50 ml of fresh cream, squeeze the gelatin sheets and dissolve them in the cream. At this point, add the warm cream and gelatin mixture to the two cheeses and mix well to combine them .
Chop the smoked salmon with a knife and incorporate it into the cheese mixture . Whip the remaining 100 ml of cream and gently fold it into the mixture to avoid deflating it . Put the mixture in a piping bag and distribute it over the biscuit bases . Allow to set in the refrigerator for at least two hours, covering the mini cheesecakes with plastic wrap. Prepare the garnish by making little roses with the smoked salmon: just cut salmon strips about 0.6 inches wide and roll them to form roses, garnish the mini salmon cheesecakes with the roses and a sprig of dill!
You can also use mini salmon cheesecakes for a buffet. Instead of salmon, you can use shrimp!
Store the mini salmon cheesecakes in the refrigerator, in a well-sealed container, for 2-3 days.

