name:
Bari-style Tiella: easy baked rice, potatoes, and mussels
ingredients:
Mussels: 17.5oz(500 g)
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Breadcrumbs: 0.42cup(50 g)
Parsley: 5tbsp(25 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare rice, potatoes, and mussels, start by cleaning the mussels: remove the beard from each mussel and eliminate any impurities on the shell using steel wool . For detailed instructions on cleaning mussels, How to Clean and Open Mussels . Use a small knife to open them, starting from the tip and following the edge of the mussel shell , being careful to collect the liquid that comes out in a container.
Move the mollusk from the upper shell to the lower one and remove the empty shell (4-5). Strain the released liquid through a fine mesh strainer and set aside .
Now prepare the breading: finely chop the garlic and add it to the breadcrumbs ; then chop the parsley and add half of it to the breadcrumbs . Mix and add the extra virgin olive oil .
Peel the potatoes and cut them into wedges . Take a 9-inch square baking dish and cover the bottom with extra virgin olive oil, arrange the potatoes , salt and pepper them, and add a sprinkle of parsley .
Continue with a layer of mussels , sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, and continue by adding the raw rice . Now add the mussel juice you kept aside , making sure to pour it gently over the entire dish.
Continue with another layer of potatoes, mussels, and rice, add a sprinkle of parsley, salt and pepper, and complete the layer with breadcrumbs . Gently add water from one side of the dish until just below the breading . Finish with a drizzle of oil and bake the rice, potatoes, and mussels in the lower part of the oven at 356°F for 60 minutes in a static oven. The surface should be well browned, and your rice, potatoes, and mussels will be ready to be enjoyed!
Store rice, potatoes, and mussels in the refrigerator in a container with a lid for up to one day. Then let it warm up slightly before serving.
You can also try the original Bari-style tiella version, with the addition of tomato and onion. Find the recipe Tiella barese (riso, patate e cozze) ! If you prefer a more savory touch, you can substitute Parmesan with Pecorino Romano cheese. If you cannot open the raw mussels, you can leave them on the heat for two minutes so the shell opens easily, and proceed as indicated in the recipe!

