name:
Light cheesecake
ingredients:
Dry whole wheat cookies: 1 ¾cup(180 g)
Light butter: 6tbsp(80 g)
Spreadable light Fresh cheese: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Low-fat Yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Fructose: 5.6oz(160 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)
Vanilla bean: 1

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note Cooling time for the base 30 min in the fridge or 15 minutes in the freezer; cooling time for the cheesecakes at least 4 hours

instructions:
To prepare the light cheesecake, start by preparing the base: put the whole wheat cookies in a mixer , then finely chop them . Place the chopped cookies in a bowl. Now melt the butter in a small pan; gradually add the melted butter to the bowl with the chopped cookies and mix well until you get a sandy mixture.
Butter a cake tin, preferably springform, with a diameter of 9.5 inches; cut out a piece of parchment paper with the same diameter as the base of the cake tin and two strips the same height as the sides, then line the cake tin itself. Pour the crumbled cookies into the parchment-lined cake tin and use a spoon to compact the cookie base . Let the mixture cool in the refrigerator for half an hour or in the freezer for about ten minutes .
Now focus on the filling: soften the sheet gelatin in cold water for about 10 minutes, then squeeze it well . Meanwhile, place the cream cheese in a stand mixer, add the fructose , and turn on the mixers to combine the ingredients. Then add the vanilla bean seeds .
Incorporate the low-fat yogurt into the mixture and continue mixing with the mixers. Meanwhile, the sheet gelatin will have softened well. Melt it in a small pan with 2 tbsp of hot water and when it is completely melted, incorporate it into the cheese and yogurt mixture . Mix all the ingredients well with a hand mixer to obtain a smooth and creamy mixture.
At this point, the cream is ready, pour it over the cookie base , now cold and compact. Smooth the cream to level it . Then place your light cheesecake in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours to set and then serve it!
You can store the light cheesecake in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in a container with a lid or covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended.
To give your light cheesecake a touch of originality, you can substitute plain yogurt with your favorite fruit low-fat yogurt. A simple and original way to personalize this delicious but less calorific version of the classic cheesecake!

