name:
Seafood Rice Salad
ingredients:
Ribe rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Mussels: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Clams: 1.2lbs(500 g)
Shrimps: 7.1oz(200 g)- (to clean)
Octopus: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Octopi: 7.1oz(200 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1cup(150 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Monkfish: 8.8oz(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Parsley: 1.8oz(50 g)
Water: 2spoonfuls- cold

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Note + 2 h to purge the clams

instructions:
To prepare the seafood rice salad, start by cleaning the seafood. First, take care of the How to clean clams , leave them to purge in fresh water and salt for a couple of hours ; rinse them and make sure there are no empty, broken, or sand-filled shells, in that case, discard them. Bring a pot of water to a boil, add a bay leaf, and cook the octopus for 20-25 minutes ; pierce it with a fork to test the cooking. Finally, let it cool, then remove the beak and eyes.
Cut the octopus into chunks about 1.5 cm (0.6 inches) and set aside. Meanwhile, How to Clean and Open Mussels by removing the beard and surface impurities with a knife . Clean the monkfish flesh by removing the central bone, then cut it into 1.5 cm (0.6 inches) chunks .
Then take care of the How to clean cuttlefish by removing the insides , then cut the mantle into 1.5 cm (0.6 inches) chunks after separating it from the tentacles . Clean the shrimp by removing the head , shell, and tail.
Remove the intestine and also cut into chunks of the same size . In a large pot, heat a little oil and a clove of garlic, then add the mussels and clams .
Cover with a lid and let them cook for 3-4 minutes until they open . Finally, shell the mollusks and save the cooking liquid.
Strain the liquid through a sieve and set aside . In a pan, heat a swirl of oil with the other garlic clove , add the monkfish chunks and cuttlefish .
Also add the shrimp and let them sizzle over high heat for a couple of minutes, shaking the pan well, until the cooking base is dry. At this point, all the seafood will be cooked. Prepare the parsley oil: separate the parsley leaves from the stems and boil them for 1 minute in boiling water .
Then drain , making sure to save the cooking water, and transfer to a bowl with ice water . When they have cooled, place them in a blender container .
Pour the oil and blend with an immersion blender ; if you see that the mixture is too dry, you can add 2-3 tablespoons of ice water .
In the pot where you blanched the parsley leaves, add the mussel and clam cooking liquid and bring to a boil, then cook the rice for 8 minutes . Wash the cherry tomatoes and quarter them .
Drain the rice and let it cool. At this point, pour the rice into a large bowl, add the fish and seafood , then also add the cherry tomatoes .
Season everything with the parsley oil and mix . Enjoy the seafood rice salad at room temperature or let it cool in the refrigerator first .
It is recommended to consume the seafood rice salad the same day.
You can add black olives for a tempting touch or replace the parsley oil with a citronette!

