name:
Mexican-style Rolls
ingredients:
Pork loin: 14.1oz(400 g)- (8 slices)
Marsala wine: 0.4cup(100 ml)
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Sage: 16leaves
Prosciutto cotto: 16slices
Pancetta: 16slices
Bread: 1.4oz(40 g)
Pancetta: 1.75oz(50 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 2.6oz(75 g)
Pork: 1.8oz(50 g)- ground
Eggs: 2
Whole milk: 3 ¾tbsp(55 ml)
Salt: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.4oz(10 g)- to grate
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the Mexican-style rolls, start by obtaining 1 1/2 oz of bread crumbs from a loaf , soak them in milk , and after a few minutes, squeeze them using a strainer and a fork .
Chop 2 1/2 oz of cooked ham and the bacon (4-5) and start preparing the filling: in a bowl, place the bread crumbs soaked in milk and add the ham .
Mix a little with a fork and continue to add the other ingredients: the chopped bacon , minced pork meat , the eggs ,
and the grated cheese . Season with salt, add nutmeg, and mix everything until you form a homogeneous mixture. At this point, lay the slices of pork loin on a working surface, pound them with a meat tenderizer to make them even, and remove any fatty parts (11-12).
Now you can prepare your Mexican-style rolls: place on each slice of pork loin a slice of cooked ham , a tablespoon of the well-spread mixture , another slice of cooked ham, and roll the roulade .
Lay 2 slices of bacon on a working surface and roll them together with the roulade : now proceed in this way for the other 7 slices of pork loin and assemble the skewers by skewering the roll with two wooden skewers, alternating with two sage leaves and skewering another roll with another two sage leaves .
Heat 2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil in a pan and melt a knob of butter, add the skewers with your Mexican-style rolls and brown them on both sides. Deglaze with Marsala wine , let the wine evaporate, then cover the pan with a lid and let it cook over low heat for at least 7-8 minutes , to thicken the cooking liquid. During cooking, occasionally turn the Mexican-style rolls and once ready, serve them immediately!
The Mexican-style rolls should be consumed immediately.
If you do not want to cover the rolls with bacon, flour the rolls and cook them as per the recipe.

