name:
Beef fillet in beer crust
ingredients:
Pork: 1.8lbs(800 g)- beef tenderloin 4 slices of 200 gr each
Artichoke hearts: 7oz(200 g)
Fresh scallion: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Salt: to taste
Pepper: to taste
Puff pastry: 14.1oz(400 g)
Smoked pancetta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Eggs: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 4spoonfuls
Sage: 1leaf
Rosemary: 1sprig
Beer: 0.8cup(200 ml)- Moretti Classica 200 ml

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the beef fillet in beer crust, first focus on preparing the artichoke cream that will cover the fillet. Cut the artichoke hearts into pieces and clean and chop the scallion. In a pan, sauté the scallion with the oil, then add the artichokes and let them cook for 10 minutes until they become tender and dry, then season with salt and pepper. Use an immersion blender to chop the artichokes into smaller pieces to obtain a dry cream but not too fine, then let it cool.
Use kitchen twine to tie the 4 beef fillets to give them a round shape , then sear them in a pan on both sides with 2 tablespoons of oil and the butter for 2 minutes on each side, then salt them, remembering to leave them rather rare or at least pink inside. At this stage, the fillet should reach the final desired doneness: remember not to cook the fillet more than once on each side. Set aside the fillet's cooking juices and place them on a rack in a cool place to drain any excess liquid .
When the fillets are cool, spread them completely with the artichoke cream and place some slices of bacon arranged in a cross on a sheet of parchment paper . Place the fillet in the center and then close the bacon to wrap it completely .
Place the fillet in the center of a puff pastry disc , which you will close by forming small pleats all around it , which you will flatten by pressing them towards the meat and sealing the top. If you have any excess puff pastry left, cut it off with a small knife .
Place the fillets, with the closure side down, on a baking tray lined with parchment paper . You can use the puff pastry scraps to cut strips and add some decorations to the surface of the fillet's crust. Beat the egg yolk with the cream and brush the entire surface and sides of the fillets .
Bake the fillets in crust in a preheated oven at 350°F for 20 minutes until the puff pastry becomes a nice golden color. Meanwhile, prepare the accompanying beer sauce: pour the chopped aromatic herbs and beer into the pan where you collected the cooking juices. Salt and let it reduce; if you want to make the sauce even denser, add a teaspoon of flour dissolved in a little beef broth. Once the necessary time has passed, remove the fillets in crust from the oven and serve them immediately with the beer reduction.
In the off-season, you can also use frozen artichoke hearts. Ask your trusted butcher to prepare 4 beef fillet cuts about 1.5 inches thick and weighing 7 oz each. If you want a more economical alternative, ask for 4 pork fillet cuts instead.

