name:
Beer roulade with speck and mushrooms
ingredients:
Veal rump: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- a slice
Speck: 4.2oz(120 g)
Emmentaler cheese: 4.25oz(120 g)- sliced
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Carrots: 1
Onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Sage: 4leaves
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Pepper: to taste
Blond beer: 11.2oz(330 ml)
Mushrooms: 9oz(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Garlic: 1clove
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: 1tuft- to chop

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the beer roulade with speck and mushrooms, start by preparing the mushroom cream that will be used to fill the veal roll. Clean the mushrooms well following our How to Clean Porcini Mushrooms , then slice them . Put 2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil in a pan along with the crushed garlic clove , add the mushrooms and cook for 5 minutes.
Finally, add a tablespoon of chopped parsley , salt, and pepper and let it cook for another 3-4 minutes. Transfer everything to a blender and blend to obtain a coarse, not too fine, cream. Spread the veal topside on a work surface and flatten it with a meat tenderizer .
At this point, start filling it: first cover it with speck slices , then proceed with Emmentaler slices , and finally spread the lukewarm mushroom cream .
Roll the meat and tie the roulade with kitchen twine , as if it were a roast, following the instructions you How to tie a roast (Tying a roast). Tuck the sage and rosemary leaves under the string along the entire length of the roulade and place it in a high-sided pan where you have heated 4 tablespoons of oil, and cook it on all sides to carefully seal all the ends .
Chop the onion, celery, and carrot into large pieces and add them to the pan with the roulade . Salt and pepper the meat and let it cook for 40 minutes with a lid with a vent. During cooking, baste the roulade with beer every time it tends to dry out too much . After 40 minutes, check that the meat is cooked with a toothpick: when piercing the surface of the roulade, a clear liquid should come out. If the liquid is pink, the meat needs to cook a little longer.
After cooking, place the roulade in a sheet of aluminum foil and close it, allowing the meat juices to redistribute. Meanwhile, transfer the cooking base with the vegetables to a bowl and blend them with an immersion blender to obtain a tasty sauce that will accompany the meat . Cut the meat into slices about 1/4 inch thick, drizzle them with the sauce, and serve your beer roulade with speck and mushrooms!
Be careful not to overcook the meat: if no liquid comes out when pricking the surface with a toothpick, the roulade will be too dry! You can give the accompanying sauce the consistency you want: just add some vegetable stock to thin it while a tablespoon of flour and a few minutes on the stove will thicken it.
For the correct choice, treatment, and preservation of mushrooms, we refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

