name:
Paccheri with eggplants, mussels and buffalo mozzarella
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 14.1oz(400 g)
Eggplant: 1lb(450 g)
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Cherry tomatoes: 2 ½cups(400 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Fresh scallion: 1
Garlic: 2cloves
Parsley: 0.7oz(20 g)- chopped
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 7oz(200 g)
White wine: 3.4oz(100 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare paccheri with eggplants, mussels and buffalo mozzarella, start by cleaning the mussels well. Remove the beard that protrudes , scrape the shell, and wash them well under running water to remove all impurities (for more details on cleaning mussels How to Clean and Open Mussels ). Once cleaned, place the mussels in a pan with two tablespoons of oil and two garlic cloves and let them open .
When you see they start to open, deglaze with white wine and add half of the total chopped parsley . Once all the mussels have opened, strain them well, taking care to collect the cooking water in a bowl, which will be used at the end to flavor the pasta .
At this point, shell half of the mussels and keep the other half whole for the final decoration of the dish . Clean the eggplants by removing the ends, cut them into cubes and place them in layers in a colander or sieve, sprinkling them with coarse salt. Cover them with a weight so that the pressure helps to lose the water and bitterness and let them rest like this for at least one hour .
Meanwhile, cut the cherry tomatoes into quarters and remove the seeds . Chop the scallion and let it wither with a couple of tablespoons of olive oil ,
then add the eggplants , cherry tomatoes , season to taste the vegetables and let them cook for 10 minutes. When cooked, add the mussels ,
then boil a pot of salted water and cook the paccheri . Drain them al dente and add them to the sauce , then add the mussel cooking water you previously set aside .
Cut a buffalo mozzarella into pieces and add it to the pasta , then add the remaining mussels with shells and plenty of parsley . Mix all the ingredients well and you are ready to serve your paccheri with eggplants, mussels and buffalo mozzarella at the table.
Paccheri with eggplants, mussels, and buffalo mozzarella can be stored for one day in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap.

