name:
Peach Clafoutis
ingredients:
Yellow peaches: 1.67cups(250 g)
White peaches: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Brandy: 0.7oz(20 ml)
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 ml)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(90 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 3- large
Vanilla: 1tsp
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the peach clafoutis, start by preheating the oven to 350°F. Wash the peaches, cut them in half or quarters, remove the pit, and peel them (1-2). Slice the peaches into not-too-thin slices .
In a bowl, beat the eggs with the sugar using an electric mixer until you obtain a light and frothy mixture that doubles in volume. Add the vanillin and the flour with a sieve.
and fold them into the mixture with a wooden spoon . At this point, gradually add the milk , stirring gently. Once all the milk is absorbed, add the brandy .
Finally, add a pinch of salt and mix one last time. Butter a low-rimmed baking dish with a diameter of 10 inches, and sprinkle it with 2 tablespoons of sugar to prevent the clafoutis from sticking (11-12).
Arrange the peaches on the bottom of the baking dish in a circular pattern or as you prefer, creating multiple overlapping layers if desired (13-14). Once you've arranged all the peaches, gently pour the egg, sugar, and milk mixture into the dish, covering all the peaches except those at the top . Bake for 50 minutes until the clafoutis is golden brown. Once baked, remove the peach clafoutis from the oven and dust with powdered sugar. Let it cool slightly and serve your peach clafoutis warm.
The peach clafoutis can be stored for 4 days covered under a glass dome. It can also be frozen in a tightly sealed bag and then thawed at room temperature or in the microwave using the defrost function.
You can replace the brandy with dark rum, cognac, or amaretto. You can also substitute 100 ml of milk with the same amount of fresh cream to make the clafoutis richer and more flavorful. Additionally, you can scent the clafoutis with cinnamon if you like.

