name:
Cold minestrone
ingredients:
Cluster tomatoes: 3
Zucchini: 2 ¾cups(300 g)
Carrots: 1cup(250 g)
Green beans: 1lb(450 g)
Potatoes: 1lb(430 g)
Lettuce: 0.55lb(250 g)
Precooked Borlotti beans: 2cups(480 g)
Spinach: 4 ⅓cups(130 g)
Leeks: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: 1tuft- to chop
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Carrots: 1
Onions: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fresh scallion: 1.2oz(35 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note More cooling time

instructions:
To prepare the cold minestrone, start with the tomatoes: make a cross-cut on the bottom , blanch them for a few minutes, drain, remove the skin , eliminate the seeds, and finally dice them. Wash the green beans, remove the two ends, and cut them into chunks .
Peel the carrots with the help of a peeler and dice them , slice the leek , peel the potatoes , and dice them.
Wash the zucchinis, remove both ends, and dice them as well . Wash the lettuce, leaf it , and cut the leaves into strips .
Wash the spinach well, and if the leaves are very large, cut them into pieces . Finely chop the spring onion . Now that all the vegetables are cut, prepare the vegetable broth, which will be used to cook the minestrone. In a pot, pour a quart of water, add an onion split in half and a carrot cut into pieces, bring to a boil, salt, and let it simmer for at least 10 minutes.
In another large pan, brown the chopped spring onion in the hot oil and start adding the vegetables: the leek and potatoes , the carrots and zucchinis
and the green beans . Moisten the vegetables with the broth during cooking, as soon as the vegetables become too dry, and let them cook for 15 minutes. After this time, add the borlotti beans and spinach ,
the sliced lettuce and the diced tomatoes . Moisten again with the broth and cook for another 15 minutes until the vegetables become tender . Adjust the salt and finally add the chopped parsley . Let it cool and serve the cold minestrone at room temperature.
This minestrone, precisely because it is to be enjoyed cold, is very well suited to be prepared the day before. You can store it in the refrigerator covered for 2 days or freeze it in a container. You will just need to defrost it at room temperature, in a bain-marie, or in the microwave when you want to consume it.
For a richer minestrone, you can add rice. Remember that the cold minestrone should be served not cold from the fridge but at room temperature. If stored, let it sit out of the fridge for about an hour before serving.

