name:
Gnocchi with Asiago cream
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Chives: 1tsp(5 g)
Sage: 1tsp(5 g)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Asiago cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the gnocchi with Asiago cream, start by preparing the cream: take the Asiago and remove the rind , grate it and soak it in milk for 20 minutes .
In the meantime, prepare the gnocchi. Wash the potatoes and cook them with the skin in a pot of salted water . Once they are cooked, drain them and, while still hot, peel them . Mash them with the help of a food mill or potato masher and place them in a large bowl ,
then add the sifted flour and a pinch of salt . Transfer the dough to a work surface for easier handling and knead until you obtain a homogeneous mixture (if needed, add more flour to the mixture to make it easier to work with) . At this point, let the dough rest at room temperature for 10 minutes. After the necessary time, divide it into many logs and cut pieces about 1 inch thick ,
then start forming your gnocchi using the appropriate gnocchi board , finally place them on a floured surface or tray before cooking them . At this point, take the Asiago with the milk and put it in a saucepan, then bring it to a boil .
Meanwhile, take a saucepan, melt the butter and incorporate the flour with the help of a whisk . When the Asiago and milk mixture reaches a boil, add it to the butter and continue stirring with the whisk to blend all the ingredients . As soon as the cream thickens or boils again, remove it from the heat. At this point, taste it and adjust the salt if necessary.
Bring a pot of salted water to a boil, then cook the gnocchi and drain them as soon as they float to the surface . Finally, combine the gnocchi with the cream and sauté for 2 minutes . Serve your gnocchi with Asiago cream hot and sprinkle with chopped sage and chives to taste.
Gnocchi with Asiago cream can be stored for a couple of days in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap.
If you don't have a gnocchi board, you can use the tines of a fork. If you desire a softer Asiago cream, add a couple of tablespoons of warm milk to the cream at the end.

