name:
Triple Chocolate Cheesecake
ingredients:
Dry chocolate cookies: 2cups(200 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Dark chocolate: 1.75oz(50 g)
Cream cheese: 1.1cups(250 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.1oz(3 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ⅓cup(80 ml)
Powdered sugar: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Milk Chocolate: 2oz(50 g)
Cream cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 2.7tbsp(20 g)
White chocolate: 1.8oz(50 g)
Dark chocolate: to taste- in flakes
Milk Chocolate: to taste- in flakes
White chocolate: to taste- in flakes

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + the time for setting in the refrigerator (about 4 h 30 min.)

instructions:
To prepare the triple chocolate cheesecake, start by preparing the base: put the cocoa cookies in the blender and finely chop them. Melt the butter in a saucepan; meanwhile, place the chopped cookies in a bowl and gradually add the melted butter mixing everything well. Butter a round cake pan, preferably springform, with a diameter of 9 inches; at this point, you can line the pan with parchment paper: cut a parchment paper disc of the same diameter as the base of the cake pan and two strips the same height as the sides, then line the cake pan itself. Pour the crumbled cookies into the parchment-covered cake pan and compact the cookie base well with the help of a spoon . Let the mixture cool in the refrigerator for half an hour or in the freezer for about ten minutes.
Now focus on the filling: prepare three bowls for the three creams and place 250 g (9 oz) of cream cheese in each, stirring to soften it . Meanwhile, melt the 3 types of chocolate separately in a double boiler (or microwave) (5-6).
and incorporate them into each bowl containing the cream cheese, stirring until a creamy mixture is obtained (7-8-9).
Now take three bowls and soften the gelatin needed for each cream (3 g) separately in cold water for 10 minutes. Then take another 3 bowls and pour 1/3 cup of previously heated cream into each, and dissolve the well-wrung gelatin in each (3 g per bowl) (10-11). In the end, you should obtain 3 bowls each containing 1/3 cup of cream and 3 g of dissolved gelatin. Incorporate the first of the 3 cream and gelatin mixtures into the white chocolate using a whisk .
Perform the same operation for the other bowls of cream and gelatin, incorporating them into both milk chocolate and dark chocolate (13-14). Lastly, add the powdered sugar, mixing with a spatula .
Perform the same operation for all types of chocolate (16-17). Now that the creams are ready, you can assemble the cheesecake. Remove the now cold and compact cookie base from the refrigerator, start by pouring in the dark chocolate cream first , and let it rest in the refrigerator or freezer for 15-20 minutes.
When the first layer has begun to set, proceed with the second layer of milk chocolate , let it rest in the refrigerator for another 15-20 minutes, and finish by covering the surface with white chocolate . Place in the refrigerator to set for at least 4 hours . Once the triple chocolate cheesecake is ready, garnish it as desired with shavings of dark, white, and milk chocolate.
The triple chocolate cheesecake can be stored in the fridge, covered with plastic wrap, for 3-4 days. Alternatively, you can freeze it, preferably divided into portions, in suitable food containers. Remember to thaw it slowly in the refrigerator.

