name:
Coconut and Chocolate Cake
ingredients:
Shredded coconut: 3 ⅛cups(250 g)
Sugar: 0.8cup(160 g)
Eggs: 7.75oz(220 g)- about 4 medium
Vanilla bean: 1
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.67cup(150 g)
Condensed milk: ⅓cup(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Dark chocolate: 7.1oz(200 g)
Dehydrated coconut: 1.8oz(50 g)- in flakes

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note plus 20 minutes of resting time

instructions:
To prepare the coconut and chocolate cake, first pour the eggs into a bowl. Add the seeds extracted from the vanilla pod and the sugar . Whisk by hand and add a pinch of salt . It is not necessary to obtain a whipped mixture, just foamy.
Add the cream and the condensed milk . Mix everything again with the hand whisk .
Sift the baking powder directly into the bowl with the shredded coconut . Mix the dry ingredients and pour them into the mixture , stirring with a spatula .
Once everything is combined , let it rest for 20 minutes in the bowl, at room temperature. This allows the coconut to hydrate, resulting in a softer cake. After 20 minutes, pour the mixture into a springform pan lined with parchment paper .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 50 minutes. After the cooking time, do a toothpick test and remove your cake from the oven . Let it cool completely and transfer it to a wire rack. Finely chop the dark chocolate and melt it in a double boiler. Pour it over the cooled cake .
Level it with a spatula , letting it drip over the edges. Decorate with coconut flakes and place in the refrigerator to set . Once the chocolate has solidified, you can serve your cake .
The coconut and chocolate cake keeps in the refrigerator for up to 2-3 days.
The rest time before baking is important for the shredded coconut to hydrate with the liquid. This step is crucial. For decoration, you can use shredded coconut if you cannot find coconut flakes; the taste remains the same and it's just aesthetically more pleasing.

