name:
Pasta with arugula pesto and asparagus
ingredients:
Egg Torchietti pasta: 2 ½cups(250 g)
Asparagus: 1.1lbs(500 g)- green
Fine salt: ½tsp(3 g)
Black pepper: ¼tsp(1 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 0.25oz(5 g)
Arugula: 1.8oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6tbsp(80 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1.7tbsp(25 g)- to grate
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1oz(25 g)
Pine nuts: 3tbsp(25 g)
Garlic: ½
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the pasta with arugula pesto and asparagus, start by preparing the arugula pesto: after thoroughly washing the arugula, slightly pat it dry with some kitchen paper, place it in a mixer cup, add the pine nuts , the Grana Padano , the pecorino , then add half a clove of garlic,
and salt it . At this point, add a small portion of the olive oil , start blending everything at low speed and gradually add the remaining olive oil in a thin stream until you get a well-blended and smooth cream. Once ready, set the arugula pesto aside in a bowl .
Now focus on the asparagus: wash them and cut off the tough part with a knife (if they are too hard, you can peel them with a potato peeler or a knife to remove the fibrous part), then tie them in a bundle with a string and cook them in the asparagus steamer for at least 10-15 minutes, starting from cold water.
Once cooked , drain them, making sure to keep some of the cooking water (about 100 ml), which will be added to the asparagus in the pan and used to slightly dilute the arugula pesto. Cut the asparagus stems into slices and then set aside their cooking water, the cleaned stems, and the tips .
Sauté the cleaned asparagus stems in a pan with the butter for about 5 minutes ; then salt and pepper and add a bit of the asparagus cooking water to make the cooking more even.
Add the asparagus tips to the pan , mix everything well , then take the chili pepper, open it, remove the seeds, slice it into strips, and add it to the pan .
Thin the arugula pesto with the asparagus cooking water to make it creamier. At this point, cook the pasta in salted boiling water and drain it al dente. Add the pasta to the pan with the asparagus and sauté for a minute.
Finally, with the heat off, dress the pasta with the arugula pesto , mix to combine the pasta well with the ingredients , adjust with oil and pepper. Your pasta with arugula pesto and asparagus is ready to be served !
Store the pasta with arugula pesto and asparagus in an airtight container in the refrigerator for 1-2 days at most. Alternatively, you can freeze only the pesto in small jars and thaw it in the refrigerator when needed, or you can store it in the refrigerator for 2 to 3 days at most.
If you like, you can add some sautéed sausage to enrich your pasta and give it a more intense flavor!

