name:
Raspberry panna cotta
ingredients:
Raspberries: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Powdered sugar: 1cup(160 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note Chilling time in the refrigerator 3 hours

instructions:
To prepare the raspberry panna cotta, heat the cream together with the sugar and the vanilla bean split in half lengthwise in a saucepan over low heat. Stir with a whisk and use a thermometer to ensure the liquid reaches 176/194 Fahrenheit, avoiding bringing it to a boil. Meanwhile, soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for 10 minutes and then squeeze them well .
When the cream has reached the correct temperature, remove the saucepan from the heat, strain the hot cream through a fine-mesh sieve to remove the vanilla bits, and pour it into the bowl containing the squeezed gelatin . Mix well to dissolve the gelatin and if necessary, return the mixture to the heat for a few minutes. Prepare 6 molds with a diameter of 3.15 inches and a capacity of about 1/2 cup and lay 2 washed and dried raspberries at the bottom and
pour the first layer of panna cotta into the mold to cover the raspberries halfway up their height . Let the first layer set in the refrigerator for about 1 hour or in the freezer for 30 minutes; meanwhile, cover the remaining mixture with a layer of plastic wrap, making a small hole in the surface so air can pass through, and keep it at room temperature, away from heat sources, stirring with the whisk from time to time. After the indicated time, place two more raspberries inside the mold and cover with the second layer of panna cotta .
Place the panna cotta in the fridge for another 2 hours, until it is completely set . To unmold the panna cotta, heat some water in a saucepan, bringing it almost to a boil. Remove the saucepan from the heat and immerse the mold in the water for about 2-3 seconds . Take it out of the water, run a straight, smooth-bladed knife around the panna cotta , turn it over, and with a firm but not too forceful motion, unmold the panna cotta onto a plate.
You can store the panna cotta in the refrigerator for 3 days or freeze it well sealed and let it thaw in the refrigerator before use.
You can also prepare the panna cotta with other fruits like blueberries, blackberries, or chopped strawberries. Alternatively, instead of whole raspberries, you can blend or sieve the fruits and add the obtained pulp to the cream before combining it with the gelatin: you will get delicious pink-colored panna cottas.

