name:
Garganelli with zucchini pesto and shrimps
ingredients:
Egg Garganelli pasta: 14oz(400 g)
Zucchini: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Pine nuts: 3tbsp(30 g)
Basil: 6 ½tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 0.3tsp(2 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(125 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)- (to grate)
Pecorino cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)- to grate
Shrimp paste: 8.8oz(250 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the garganelli with zucchini pesto and shrimps, start with the pesto. Wash the zucchinis, remove the ends , and grate them using a coarse grater . Then place the grated zucchinis in a strainer to drain excess liquid, and lightly salt them.
Put the zucchinis , pine nuts , and basil leaves, previously gently cleaned with a dry cloth, into the mixer .
Also add the grated Grana Padano PDO and Pecorino , and finally, pour in the extra virgin olive oil .
Blend everything until you get a creamy texture , add a pinch of salt, and set aside . Move on to the shrimps: first, cut along the back with a knife for the entire length and, with the tip, remove the intestine .
Take a non-stick pan, pour in some extra virgin olive oil, and brown the garlic clove . Once browned, remove the garlic and add the shrimps . Sauté them for about 5 minutes over medium heat until they form a crispy crust on the outside. Then bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the garganelli , draining them very al dente so you can finish cooking them in the pan with the shrimps. Keep a couple of ladles of cooking water aside.
Transfer the garganelli to the pan where you cooked the shrimps . Cook together for a minute, add a ladle of cooking water , and finally, off the heat, add the zucchini pesto .
Mix everything well to combine the pasta with the sauce : your garganelli with zucchini pesto and shrimps are ready to be served !
You can store the garganelli with zucchini pesto and shrimps for a maximum of one day in the refrigerator, tightly closed in a container.
You can store the zucchini pesto in a small glass container for 1-2 days in the refrigerator, covered with a drizzle of oil.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can enrich the zucchini pesto with almonds and add zucchini slices to the pasta, sautéing them with the shrimps in the pan. For a touch of color, cherry tomatoes will be perfect!

