name:
Couscous with peas and shrimp
ingredients:
Couscous: 1.4cups(250 g)- precooked
Water: 1.1cups(270 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Shrimps: 10.5oz(300 g)
Peas: 1 ¾cup(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6spoonfuls
Cluster tomatoes: 1
White onions: ½
Lemon peel: ½
Thyme: 1sprig
Marjoram: 1sprig

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare couscous with peas and shrimp, start by taking the couscous; in a pot, pour 1 cup of water, heat it, and add a good pinch of salt, two tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil, and the zest of one lemon. When the water starts to boil, add the couscous gradually , stir, then turn off the heat. Add the butter, level the couscous well with a spoon, and let it rest for 2 minutes so that the semolina absorbs the water. Shell the shrimp , removing the tails as well; season with salt and pepper
and roast them in a pan where you have heated 3 tablespoons of olive oil, over medium heat for 5 minutes, browning them on both sides . Move the shrimp, once cooked, onto kitchen paper to absorb the excess oil . Cut the tomato into quarters and, with the help of a knife, scoop out the pulp and seeds
which you will blend together with a pinch of salt, one of pepper, a tablespoon of oil, and the zest of half a lemon ; instead, cut the tomato slices into small cubes and set aside. Chop the thyme and marjoram and set them aside; finely chop the onion and sauté it in a pan with 2 tablespoons of olive oil ; as soon as it starts sizzling, add the blended tomato juice
and continue to cook over low heat for 5 minutes. Add the peas , lightly salt and pepper . Add some of the chopped herbs to the peas and cook for about 10 minutes until the peas are tender , adding a little water if they dry out too much.
Meanwhile, remove the lemon zest from the couscous and add the remaining chopped herbs and tomato cubes , mix and add everything to the peas, directly in the pan over low heat. Mix well, if necessary add a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil and finally add the shrimp . Turn off the heat, mix the couscous, and serve in small single-serving tagines, hot or cold as preferred.
Couscous with shrimp and peas can also be prepared the day before and stored in the fridge, covered with plastic wrap, until ready to serve. If you prefer it hot, just reheat it in a pan or microwave for a few minutes.

