name:
Steamed salmon
ingredients:
Lemons: 1
White onions: ½
Zucchini: 0.8cup(100 g)
Carrots: (100 g)
Green peppers: 0.67cup(100 g)
Celery: ½cup(50 g)
Pomodori di Pachino (cherry tomatoes): 3.5oz(100 g)
Potatoes: 1- medium
Bay leaves: 3leaves
Dill: 2sprigs
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Thyme: 2sprigs
Water: 2glasses
Extra virgin olive oil: 11spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Salmon steaks: 0.9lb(400 g)- (2 steaks)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the steamed salmon, start by removing the skin and bones , or ask your fishmonger to prepare 2 equal fillets without bones and skin. Finely chop the herbs together , keeping only the bay leaves and a sprig of rosemary aside. Peel the lemon with a peeler, set aside the zest slices and squeeze the juice.
Marinate the salmon fillets for 10 minutes in 8 tablespoons of olive oil, half of the chopped herbs, and the lemon juice . During this time, turn the fish in the marinade several times, salt and pepper, then cover it with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for another 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, finely chop the onion and start cutting the vegetables into approximately equal cubes, about half an inch: peel and cut the carrot , the zucchini, and the celery, after removing the strings. Cut the green bell pepper into quarters, remove the seeds and white filaments, peel the outer skin and also cut it into cubes .
Peel and cut the potato, then place it in a bowl with water to prevent it from browning . Finally, cut the cherry tomatoes into quarters, remove the pulp and seeds which you will blend with the help of an immersion blender, and cut the slices into cubes .
Put a large pot of water on the stove, on which you will place the steaming basket, and prepare flavored water with lemon zest, bay leaves, and a sprig of rosemary , then increase the heat and bring the water to 176°-194°F. Continue with the vegetables: heat 3 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil in a pan and sauté the onion over medium-low heat. As soon as it starts to sizzle, add half a glass of water, lightly salt, and when the liquid has almost completely evaporated, add the potato cubes, celery, bell pepper, and carrots . Cook for 10 minutes over medium heat, slightly browning the potatoes. If the mixture dries out too much, add half a glass of water. Add the chopped zucchini and the remaining herbs , salt, pepper, and cook for another 10 minutes.
Finally, add the blended cherry tomato juice and the cherry tomato cubes; cook for another 10 minutes ensuring all the vegetables are well cooked. Place the basket on the pot; remove the salmon fillets from the marinade and place them on the basket . Cook the fish inside the basket with the lid on for about 8-9 minutes (if the fillets are very thick, increase the cooking time), being careful to maintain a gentle boil throughout the cooking, otherwise, the fish pieces will flake too much . Plate the steamed salmon fillet with the vegetables around and serve.
Steamed salmon fillets and vegetables can be stored in the refrigerator, in a separate container, for 2 days.

