name:
Chocolate and Cherry Cake
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 7.1oz(200 g)
Cherries: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Butter: 7.1oz(200 g)
Brown sugar: 0.85cup(170 g)
Powdered sugar: ¼cup(30 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Baking powder: 1 ¾tsp(8 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate and cherry cake, wash the cherries and, using a knife, cut them in half and remove the pit . Place the cherries in a bowl with powdered sugar and let them macerate for 10 minutes so they release some juice.
Coarsely chop the dark chocolate with a kitchen knife . Meanwhile, prepare a double boiler: in a large bowl, melt the butter with the chopped chocolate and stir occasionally .
In another bowl, place the brown sugar, add the eggs , and whisk the sugar and eggs , along with a pinch of salt, until you get a light and frothy mixture. Sift the flour together with the baking powder and
add them to the sugar and egg mixture . Mix with a spatula to blend everything well. At this point, add the melted chocolate and butter : stir again with the spatula from top to bottom to maintain the texture of the mixture. Finally, add the cherries , saving a tablespoon for the final decoration of the cake slices.
Prepare a rectangular baking pan 9 inches wide and 12 inches long (or a round cake pan with a diameter of 9.5 inches), line it with a sheet of slightly dampened parchment paper to adhere, and pour the mixture into the pan . Smooth the surface well with the back of a spoon and bake in a preheated oven at 350°F for 25-30 minutes. Once cooled, even out the edges by cutting the outermost part and cut the cake into rectangular slices of equal size. Decorate with the remaining cherries, one on each slice of cake.
The chocolate and cherry cake can be stored for 2-3 days at room temperature, covered with a glass dome.
You can freeze it, possibly already cut into cubes.
If not eaten by children, you can add 2 tablespoons of sherry to the cake batter to enhance the flavor of the cherries. During the year, when cherries are no longer available, you can use syruped sour cherries.

