name:
Birthday cake
ingredients:
Potato starch: 1cup(125 g)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(90 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Eggs: 7.4oz(210 g)- (4 medium)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(225 g)
Egg yolks: 5tbsp(75 g)- (4 medium)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Egg yolks: 0.4cup(100 g)
Cornstarch: 3tbsp(25 g)
Rice starch: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Orange peel: 1
Vanilla bean: 1
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Water: 1.6cups(375 g)
Dark chocolate: 2.8oz(80 g)- in chips
Fresh liquid cream: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Powdered sugar: ½cup(70 g)
Chocolate sprinkles: to taste
Strawberries: to taste
Berries: to taste- mixed
Dark chocolate: 1.75oz(50 g)- melted

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 3 h
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 12
Cost: Average
Note + the cooling time for the cream, sponge cake, and assembled cake

instructions:
To prepare the birthday cake, start with the sponge cake: in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with whisks, add the sugar, egg yolks , whole eggs , and a pinch of salt .
Turn on the whisks and let them work for at least 10 minutes , until the mixture is very light and foamy. Meanwhile, sift together the flour and potato starch twice. Then pour the powders little by little into the whipped mixture .
Gently mix with a spatula with upward movements from bottom to top . Once the powders are well incorporated, pour the obtained batter into a 10-inch greased pan lined with parchment paper . The sponge cake is ready to be baked in static mode in a preheated oven at 350°F on the lowest rack. Bake for 30-35 minutes, and once removed from the oven, flip it over, remove the pan, and let it cool upside down.
In the meantime, work on the custard: in a saucepan, heat the milk with orange and lemon zest, cinnamon, and the vanilla pod . Collect the seeds in a bowl and add the granulated sugar .
Add the egg yolks , mix , and add the rice starch .
Add the corn starch and mix again to obtain a homogeneous batter . Finally, pour the now hot milk into the bowl, straining it through a sieve .
Mix immediately and return to the heat in a saucepan . Stir and cook until the mixture is close to boiling; the custard should thicken .
Once ready, cool the custard immediately by pouring it into a cold bowl from the freezer, then transfer it into a dish and let it cool in the fridge for 3 hours covered with plastic wrap in contact with the surface. In the meantime, you can take care of the syrup: in a saucepan, pour water, sugar , and orange and lemon zest .
Bring to a boil and let it infuse until it cools down . Once cooked and cooled, retrieve your sponge cake: with a serrated knife, peel off the outermost part and then cut it in half to obtain 2 discs .
Place the first disc on a plate and, using a brush, moisten it well with the citrus syrup . Whip the cream with powdered sugar and transfer it into a piping bag with a star tip. Create a ring of whipped cream around the circumference of the disc .
Fill with the custard, which has cooled and been placed in a piping bag . Level with a spatula and add the dark chocolate shavings .
Moisten the inside of the second sponge cake disc and place it over the filling : this way, the part baked in contact with the pan is facing up. Moisten the surface with the syrup as well .
Now, with the remaining whipped cream, distribute dollops all around the cake border and cover the surface . Carefully smooth everything out to obtain a smooth and tidy coating .
With your hands, let the chocolate sprinkles adhere to the entire cake border (40-41), arrange the strawberries, and use the remaining whipped cream to garnish the surface of the birthday cake, forming a garland .
Add the berries as well , and with melted dark chocolate placed inside a parchment paper cone, write your dedication for the birthday person . Your beautiful birthday cake is ready; let it set in the fridge for at least 2 hours before serving.
The birthday cake should preferably be consumed within a few hours of preparation, but it can be stored in the fridge under a glass dome or in an airtight container for 1-2 days. You can prepare the syrup, custard, and sponge cake in advance and complete the whipped cream, assembly, and decoration just a few hours before!
You can personalize your birthday cake by adding strawberries or berries in pieces between the layers, along with the chocolate shavings!

