name:
Squid ink risotto with shrimp
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Shrimps: 5.3oz(150 g)- peeled
Octopi: 8.8oz(250 g)- cleaned
Cuttlefish ink: 2tsp(10 g)
Shallot: 2.1oz(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4 ½tbsp(70 g)
White wine: 2.1oz(60 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)- to grate
Parsley: 1tuft- to chop
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Risotto al nero di seppia is what you get when you're craving some real drama on your plate. And a whole lot of flavor too. In the Veneto region of Italy, folks know the secret to a really really good Italian seafood risotto is the cuttlefish ink —it turns the rice this wild, pitch-black color and gives everything a deep, tender sea taste you don’t forget. Add juicy shrimp and, honestly, you’ve got a dish that feels pretty fancy—like something you’d spot at a special dinner by the coast. The mix of shrimp risotto and that inky, salty richness is all about making seafood the star. People sometimes even toss in flavors like licorice to make things pop. But to be honest, the real magic is in how that moist rice soaks up all those sea vibes. This isn’t just any rice dish—it’s squid ink risotto done the Italian way, with a look and taste that’s definitely different.
Special occasions call for food that's a bit out of the ordinary, and this black risotto totally fits the bill. The smell alone—like an ocean breeze mixed with a hint of garlic and crispy shrimp—lets everyone know something cool is coming. And you know what? When you spoon it out, that shiny black rice with those bright shrimp is just plain fun to look at. Not to mention how tender and rich each bite is. It’s the kind of seafood risotto recipe people talk about long after the meal—especially at a holiday dinner or New Year's Eve party. In Veneto, the balance between the sweet shrimp and the earthy ink makes this risotto with shrimp way way better than other rice dishes. There’s just something about how the golden shrimp sits on that jet-black bed of rice that feels extra special, like you’re eating something straight from the Italian seaside. Anyone up for a bit of adventure on their plate should definitely give this traditional risotto al nero di seppia a try. Really, just to see what all the excitement’s about.
To prepare the squid ink risotto with shrimp, start by preparing the Vegetable broth and then finely chop the shallot . Proceed with cleaning the seafood: shell the shrimp . Once cleaned externally, proceed with removing the intestine by incising the back and gently removing it with a toothpick, being careful not to break it . Set the shrimp aside.
Take the baby squid and cut them into thin strips , keeping the tentacles whole as their curled shapes will be used to decorate the risotto. Wash and thoroughly dry the parsley, then finely chop it . Now take a non-stick pan with high sides in which you will sauté the shallot with 3 1/2 tablespoons of oil , continuing to stir.
After 5-6 minutes, it will be well browned: add the baby squid and also the shrimp in the pan : cook the seafood, stirring continuously to prevent it from sticking to the bottom of the pan, for about 2 minutes on low heat. Then add the rice and let it toast for an additional 3 minutes, stirring continuously as well.
Finally, deglaze with the wine : let it evaporate. Now add the vegetable broth : add a ladle each time the previous one has been completely absorbed. Halfway through cooking, add the squid ink .
When there are 3-4 minutes left until the risotto is done, season with salt and pepper. Turn off the heat and mix in 1 1/2 tablespoons of oil and the grated cheese . Mix the ingredients well to combine them.
Sprinkle with the parsley and mix all the ingredients well again until they are completely combined . Then plate your squid ink risotto with shrimp and bring this delight to the table!
The squid ink risotto with shrimp is best enjoyed freshly made. If there are leftovers, store them in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 1 day.
We do not recommend freezing
To give this delicacy a more intense flavor, instead of using white wine, deglaze with brandy: your risotto will be even more intense and fragrant!

