name:
Potato Pie
ingredients:
Pork: 7oz(200 g)- minced
Potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
White onions: 0.8cup(120 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Provola cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Whole milk: 3.3cups(800 g)
Butter: 5.67tbsp(80 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.6cup(80 g)
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
Potato pie is a rich and tasty single course, perfect for winter menus. In this version, layers of potatoes, homemade creamy béchamel, a savory mix of sautéed ground meat, and plenty of cheese alternate, which will create a delicious gratin when baked. When you cut the first slice, you will discover the irresistible stringy effect that will win everyone over at the table! Try our delicious baked potato pie and other tasty variations:
To prepare the potato pie, start with the béchamel: heat the milk in a saucepan, meanwhile melt the butter over low heat in another pan , add the flour and mix quickly with the whisk . Once the butter has absorbed the flour, pour in the hot milk little by little .
Stir with the whisk and continue cooking over moderate heat until the sauce thickens, then season with salt and nutmeg . Transfer the béchamel to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap and let it cool .
Peel the potatoes , slice them very thin with the mandoline .
Blanch the potatoes for 1 minute , then drain and dry them with a tea towel . Clean and slice the onion .
In a pan, heat some oil , add the onion and let it soften for a few minutes, until it starts to soften, then add the ground meat .
Brown it until it changes color , then set it aside to cool slightly. Now assemble the potato pie: in a rectangular baking dish measuring 9x6 inches, about 2.5 inches high, pour a layer of béchamel .
Place the potatoes , cover with the ground meat and grated provolone cheese .
Continue alternating the layers until the ingredients are used up . Finish by distributing a layer of grated Parmigiano Reggiano on the surface . Bake the potato pie in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 40 minutes .
The potato pie keeps in the fridge for 2-3 days. You can freeze it after cooking if you have used fresh ingredients.
For a tastier result, you can use mixed ground meat.

