name:
Gluten-free sponge cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 5
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Cornstarch: 1 ¼cup(150 g)- gluten-free

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the gluten-free Sponge Cake start by placing the eggs (at room temperature!) in a stand mixer , then add the sugar and whisk the ingredients for at least 10/15 minutes until you obtain a frothy, fluffy, and light yellow colored mixture .
If desired, when the mixture is well whipped, you can add the seeds from the vanilla pod, which you have halved, and continue to mix for a few seconds to blend it well and flavor the batter. At this point, you can add the cornstarch (or potato starch) that you have sifted well beforehand : mix everything with a wooden spoon until you obtain a homogeneous mixture, being careful not to deflate it . Butter and flour well with cornstarch a 9-inch springform pan ,
pour the batter into the center of the mold leveling it well . Bake the gluten-free Sponge Cake for about 35-40 minutes at 350°F in a preheated static oven without ever opening the oven in the first half hour of baking. Remove the mold from the oven and let the Sponge Cake cool in the mold before opening it.
Remember, first of all, that once the Sponge Cake is baked, the oven should not be opened until the baking is finished to prevent the cake from deflating. To check the baking of your Sponge Cake, you need to pierce the center of the cake with a toothpick: if the toothpick comes out with batter sticking to it, then the sponge cake is not yet cooked. Additionally, to prevent the Sponge Cake from deflating, once cooked, let it cool for 10 minutes in the turned-off oven. If you prefer, you can make the gluten-free Sponge Cake using rice flour, Sponge Cake with Rice Flour
For gluten-free recipes, we recommend purchasing only products that display the crossed-out ear symbol on the packaging, certified gluten-free, as advised by the AIC Italian Celiac Association guidelines.

