name:
Sponge Cake with Rice Flour
ingredients:
Rice flour: 1cup(150 g)
Eggs: 5
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Vanilla bean: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the Sponge Cake with rice flour, start by placing the room temperature eggs in a stand mixer , then add the sugar and whisk the ingredients for at least 10/15 minutes until you obtain a frothy, fluffy, and light yellow mixture .
If you desire, once the mixture is well whipped, you can add the seeds of the vanilla bean that you have halved and continue to whip for a few seconds to mix it well and flavor the batter. At this point, you can add the rice flour that you have previously sifted well : mix everything with a wooden spoon until you obtain a homogeneous mixture, being careful not to deflate it . Butter and flour well with rice flour a 9-inch round springform pan ,
pour the batter into the center of the mold leveling it well . Bake the Sponge Cake with rice flour for about 35-40 minutes at 356°F without ever opening the oven in the first half-hour of cooking. Remove the mold from the oven and let the Sponge Cake cool in the mold before opening it . NOTE : It is always necessary to consult the Italian Celiac Association's guide and read the ingredients carefully to ensure they do not contain gluten contamination
Remember, first of all, that once the Sponge Cake is in the oven, it should not be opened again until cooking is complete, or the cake will deflate. To check the cooking of your Sponge Cake, you need to pierce the center of the cake with a toothpick: if the toothpick comes out with batter, it means the sponge cake is not yet cooked. Moreover, to prevent the Sponge Cake from deflating, once cooked, let it cool for 10 minutes in the turned-off oven. If you want, you can create a Gluten-free sponge cake using 75 grams of rice flour + 75 grams of cornstarch, or solely with cornstarch.
For gluten-free recipes, we recommend purchasing only products that have the crossed-out ear symbol on the packaging, certified gluten-free, and recommended by the Italian Celiac Association guide.

