name:
Chestnut gnocchi
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Chestnut flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Fine salt: to taste
Butter: ½cup(120 g)
Sage: 6leaves
Salted ricotta cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare chestnut gnocchi, first, boil the potatoes in a large pot full of water . Cook them for about 30-40 minutes from boiling , until they are tender when pricked with a fork. When they are well cooked, drain them and mash them, still hot, in a bowl with a potato masher .
Add the chestnut flour and a pinch of salt . Start kneading with your hands .
Then add the all-purpose flour and the previously beaten egg . Continue kneading by hand until you get a homogeneous mixture.
Transfer the dough to a pastry board and form a loaf. From this, take pieces of dough and form strands about 3/4 inch in diameter .
Use a bench scraper to cut the gnocchi into pieces about 3/4 of an inch long . As you go, place them on a tray lined with parchment paper and a sprinkle of flour . Put a pot full of salted water on the stove for cooking the gnocchi. Meanwhile, prepare the seasoning. In a pan, melt the butter and add the sage leaves .
Let it infuse and then turn off the heat . As soon as the water comes to a boil, drop in the gnocchi . Cook them for 1-2 minutes until they float to the surface. Then, scoop them out with a slotted spoon .
Transfer directly to the pan with the seasoning, after turning the heat back on. Add a ladle of cooking water and toss the gnocchi. Add a pinch of black pepper , then plate them, and grate some salted ricotta on top.
We recommend preparing the gnocchi fresh, but if you can't, you can store them in the fridge for an hour.
Once cooked, you can store the gnocchi in the fridge for 2 days.
For gnocchi of all kinds, it is always recommended to use old potatoes, with yellow flesh or red skin.
We proposed a simple seasoning, but you can also season them with butter, sage, and bacon, with white ragù, or with porcini mushrooms or another variety!
We kept them simple, but you can use a gnocchi board to groove your chestnut gnocchi!


