name:
Ricotta gnocchi with three aromas
ingredients:
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(240 g)- Roman
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: 1cup(50 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Green olives: 1.1oz(30 g)- pitted
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2tbsp(10 g)- to grate
Lemon peel: 1
Tomato purée: 0.6cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Marjoram: 25tsp(25 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: 7tbsp(100 g)
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the ricotta gnocchi with three aromas, start with the gnocchi dough. In a large bowl, add the ricotta and season it with pepper and salt . Then incorporate the sifted flour and finely chopped green olives .
At this point, also add the slightly beaten egg yolks and mix. Add the grated Grana cheese and the grated zest of half an untreated lemon .
It's time to mix well with the help of a fork to obtain a homogeneous dough . Using two tablespoons, take a small amount of dough (about 0.7 oz) and shape it into a quenelle , which is an almond-shaped gnocchi; then gently place it on a tray previously lined with parchment paper .
Continue in this way until the dough is used up. You should get 20 gnocchi . Now move on to the sauce: in a high-sided pan, heat a drizzle of oil and fry a peeled garlic clove . When it takes on color, remove the clove .
In the flavored oil, now pour the tomato passata and season with salt and pepper . Continue cooking for about 20 minutes, and in the meantime, prepare the pesto. In the mixer glass, pour the washed and dried marjoram leaves
Add the grated cheese , the pine nuts , and the extra virgin olive oil
Then turn on the mixer and blend into a cream . Incorporate the obtained pesto into the sauce , which in the meantime will be ready. Set aside only a small amount of pesto to garnish the dishes. Mix the pesto well into the sauce, and keep warm .
Bring a pot of plenty of salted water to a simmer. Before it reaches boiling temperature, dip the gnocchi and cook them for about 3 minutes. Gently drain them and arrange them like petals on dishes on which you have poured a few tablespoons of hot sauce. In the center, place a few drops of marjoram pesto. Your ricotta gnocchi with three aromas are steaming and ready to be served !
Once ready, ricotta gnocchi with three aromas should be consumed immediately. However, you can freeze raw ricotta gnocchi placed on a tray lined with parchment paper: once solidified, you can transfer them into a plastic food bag or a suitable container. They should be consumed within 1 month at most. The tomato and marjoram sauce can be stored in the fridge for a maximum of 2-3 days or frozen.
To make gnocchi more easily, I'll teach you a little trick: before starting, dip the spoons you'll use to form the quenelles in cold water!

