name:
Birramisù
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: 1.3cups(300 ml)
Mascarpone cheese: ¼cup(60 g)
Ladyfingers: 12
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste
Beer: 2oz(60 ml)
Egg yolks: 6
Sugar: (120 g)
Coffee: 0.8cup(200 ml)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Beer: 7oz(200 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To start, prepare the soak: place a small pot on the stove with the beer and add the sugar . When the sugar is completely dissolved, add the coffee and leave the liquid on the stove until the alcohol from the beer has evaporated.
Meanwhile, whip the cream and soften the mascarpone with a spatula . Gradually and gently fold the cream into the mascarpone, and once perfectly combined, store in the refrigerator.
Now, proceed with preparing the beer zabaglione: using a stand mixer with a whisk attachment, beat the egg yolks with the sugar until the mixture is pale and frothy. Slowly add the beer at room temperature and continue beating until fully incorporated. Pour your cream into a saucepan with a handle and place it in a bain-marie inside a larger pot filled with hot water up to 1/3. Meanwhile, continue stirring with an electric whisk for 10-15 minutes until the cream is thick and fluffy .
Add the beer cream to the mascarpone and cream mixture little by little with circular movements from top to bottom, so as not to deflate it. The cream for the beeramisu is ready. Dip the ladyfingers in the soak (make sure not to soak them too much) and form the first layer. Cover the ladyfingers with a layer of beer cream and smooth it out well with a teaspoon. Dust the entire surface with bitter cocoa. Then, arrange the second layer of ladyfingers and cover again with the cream. Finish everything with a generous dusting of bitter cocoa.
To assemble the Beeramisu, you can use single-serving cups or a classic glass baking dish.
Oktoberfest is one of the most well-known folk festivals in the world. Every year, for 16 days (the last week of September, first week of October) in Munich, many people gather to taste the six historically recognized best beers in the area. Since 1810, it has been one of the most anticipated events, only canceled during times of severe crisis, such as during the first and second world wars.

