name:
Blinis
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(80 g)
Eggs: 1
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 2.8tsp(8 g)
Milk: ⅓cup(100 ml)
Fresh liquid cream: 3.4tbsp(50 ml)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Sour cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Dill: 2tufts
Lumpfish roe (caviar substitute): 1spoonful- red
Smoked Salmon: 7oz(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 3 min
Makes: 14 pieces
Cost: Average
Note Plus one hour of dough resting time

instructions:
To prepare the blinis, start with the basic batter: separate the yolk from the egg white and beat the yolk in a bowl, add the milk and cream little by little, mixing well to avoid lumps . Then add the sifted flour and baking powder and continue mixing . Let the batter rest for about an hour. Then add the egg white beaten to stiff peaks with a pinch of salt, being careful not to deflate it .
Heat and lightly butter a non-stick crepe pan, when it's hot, pour in a ladle of batter which will puff up to form a pancake about 3 inches in diameter . Once the bottom has set, flip the blini using a spatula and brown the other side as well . Continue this way until all the batter is used. Start preparing the garnish for the blinis: in a small bowl, mix the sour cream to make it creamy and add chopped dill (reserving a little for garnish), salt, and pepper .
Spread the sour cream on the blinis , place a strip of smoked salmon on top , and garnish with another dollop of sour cream, some dill, and a bit of red lumpfish roe . The blinis are ready to be enjoyed as a great appetizer!
We recommend consuming the blinis as soon as they are ready.
Varying the theme is one of my favorite things. Here are some ideas for you. First of all, instead of sour cream, you can easily use spreadable cheese (like Philadelphia). You could replace the fish with Prague ham or shrimp and the lumpfish roe with pink peppercorns, while for a truly delicious blini, you could add a couple of tablespoons of chopped mixed herbs (chives, mint, and parsley) to the batter. For a surprisingly sweet blini, well: sprinkle with Nutella!

