name:
Strawberry mousse
ingredients:
Strawberries: 4 ½cups(700 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Lemon juice: 1
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(12 g)
Egg whites: ⅓cup(80 g)
Sugar: 0.8cup(160 g)
Water: 4tbsp(60 ml)
Lemon juice: - a few drops
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + resting the mousse in the fridge

instructions:
To prepare the strawberry mousse, start by soaking the gelatin sheets in cold water for at least 10 minutes . Wash the strawberries, remove the green stems, cut them in half , and place them in a blender ; add the juice of a strained lemon and blend everything.
You should obtain a smooth puree , which you will then pass through a sieve to remove any lumps and larger seeds: this will yield about 14 oz of strawberry puree. Take two/three tablespoons of strawberry puree and heat it in a saucepan ,
when it's hot add the drained and well-squeezed gelatin sheets and let them dissolve completely by stirring with a whisk . Once the gelatin is completely dissolved, add the puree to the remaining one and mix well . Set the mixture aside while you continue with the preparation.
Now prepare the Italian Meringue : squeeze the juice of half a lemon and strain it (10-11). Then, in a small saucepan, dissolve the sugar with the water over low heat;
the syrup should not exceed 248°F (you'll need to measure with a kitchen thermometer); when the temperature reaches around 185°F, start working the egg whites with a stand mixer (or with an electric mixer) and when they turn white, add the strained lemon juice . When the syrup reaches 248°F and at the same time the egg whites are well whipped, pour it slowly over the egg whites while continuing to work them at medium speed ; continue to beat until the mixture becomes completely cool.
Once ready, the meringue will have a white and foamy consistency , add it to the strawberry puree and mix with a whisk from top to bottom to keep the mixture from deflating .
Finally, you can whip the fresh cream, which should be semi-whipped, so white and creamy . Incorporate it into the strawberries and Italian meringue , mixing from bottom to top until everything is combined. You can pour the strawberry mousse into a disposable piping bag without a nozzle and place it in the refrigerator for at least 10-15 minutes. After this time, fill the cups , and place them back in the refrigerator for at least half an hour before serving. Decorate each cup with a fresh strawberry if you like before letting your guests enjoy them!
Store the strawberry mousse in the refrigerator for 1-2 days covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended as the mousse may lose its initial consistency.
You can replace the strawberries with the same amount of fresh raspberries to obtain a delicious raspberry mousse!

