name:
Strawberry Delights
ingredients:
Egg whites: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Egg yolks: 20tbsp(150 g)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ⅓cups(300 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Egg yolks: ¾cup(200 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Butter: 0.9cup(200 g)
Strawberries: 0.8cup(200 g)- puree
Strawberry syrup: 6tbsp(100 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.7oz(20 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2cups(500 ml)
Powdered sugar: ½cup(50 g)
Water: 0.8cup(200 ml)
Maraschino: to taste- or strawberry essence

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 3 h
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the strawberry delights, whip the egg whites (which should be at room temperature) with a mixer, and when they start to turn white, add one-third of 150 g of sugar, let it whip for a minute, then add another third of the sugar, and the final third after another minute . Whip the egg yolks with the other half of the sugar for at least 7-8 minutes ; when both mixtures are ready, gently mix them together in a large bowl with care not to deflate them .
Add the sifted flour into the bowl and the zest of a Sorrento lemon , place the mixture into a pastry bag and then squeeze it into semi-sphere molds with a diameter of 3 inches .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 20 minutes, then remove the semi-spheres, let them cool slightly, extract them from the molds, and let them cool completely on a wire rack . Soak the gelatin sheets in a bowl of cold water for at least 10-15 minutes . Prepare the strawberry cream by blending the strawberries and straining them: you should obtain about 7 oz of strawberry puree.
Place the sugar, strawberry puree , and syrup (or strawberry liqueur if you prefer) in a saucepan and dissolve the sugar over low heat. Beat the egg yolks with a whisk to break them.
and then pour the strawberry syrup over them, beating constantly ; place everything in a saucepan, bring to a boil, then add the butter in pieces , stir for 2 minutes, then add the well-drained gelatin sheets , stir for a few seconds, and remove from heat.
Pour the obtained cream into a wide and shallow bowl, cover it with plastic wrap directly on the cream: place it in the refrigerator to cool . If the cream is too firm when removed from the fridge, blend it with a mixer to make it smooth and soft again. Whip the cream and fold it into the strawberry cream : if there are lumps, strain everything through a sieve (do not worry, the cream will remain light, dense, and consistent) pressing down with a silicone spatula.
Prepare the syrup to soak the delights by dissolving the sugar with water over heat and adding the chosen essence or liqueur to this syrup; let the syrup cool. Hollow out the delights in the center, lightly soak them with the syrup, and fill the cavities with strawberry cream , then plug the hole with a slice of sponge cake taken from the base of the plug removed from each and place them on a wire rack. Thin the remaining cream with a few tablespoons of liquid cream or milk
and cover the spheres , letting the excess cream drip . At this point, decorate the strawberry delight with tufts of whipped cream and wild strawberries as desired. Place the strawberry delights in the fridge until ready to serve.

