name:
Tricolor Meringues
ingredients:
Egg whites: 0.4cup(100 g)
Food coloring: ½tsp(2 g)- red and green
Powdered sugar: 1 ¾cup(220 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(60 g)
White chocolate: 4.4oz(125 g)-

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 3 h
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare tricolor meringues, start by making the French meringue (basic dough) . Begin by separating the yolks from the whites, then pour them into a stand mixer or a tall-sided container . Pour the egg whites into a stand mixer fitted with a whisk or into a tall-sided bowl and start whipping at medium speed. Meanwhile, sift the powdered sugar into a separate bowl .
Gradually add 110 g of powdered sugar, a little at a time, and continue whipping . When the egg whites are well whipped to stiff peaks, proceed by incorporating the remaining powdered sugar, one tablespoon at a time , ensuring that you add a tablespoon of powdered sugar only when the previous one has been fully incorporated until you get a white and fluffy meringue .
Then divide the obtained mixture equally into two small bowls . In one, add 1 g of green food coloring : mix well with a spatula to make the color uniform . Repeat the operation with the red food coloring.
At this point, take a baking sheet and line it with parchment paper. Pour the colored meringue mixtures into two different piping bags fitted with plain nozzles; start with one and pipe small meringue buttons with a diameter of 0.8 to 1.2 inches , spacing them apart. You should obtain 30 small meringues. Repeat the operation for the other piping bag. Bake in a preheated static oven at 194°F for at least 3 hours, ensuring that you leave the oven door slightly ajar to allow as much moisture as possible to escape. Once dried , remove and let cool.
Meanwhile, proceed with making the white chocolate cream. On a cutting board, chop the white chocolate . Then pour the cream into a saucepan and bring to a boil . When it reaches the boiling point, remove the saucepan from the heat and add the chopped chocolate , continuing to stir with a spatula to melt the chocolate and avoid lumps. Then transfer the cream to a small bowl. Cover it with plastic wrap to prevent a skin from forming and let cool at room temperature. Once it reaches room temperature, transfer your cream to the refrigerator for at least 1 hour.
Then pour the white chocolate cream into a piping bag . Take a green meringue and fill it with cream on the flat side , then place a red meringue on top . Repeat the operation for the 30 meringues and enjoy them for a delicious Liberation Day!
It is best to consume the tricolor meringues immediately after assembly. However, they can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days, although they will lose a bit of the crunchiness that distinguishes them.
You can prepare the tricolor meringues in advance, storing them in a tin container, away from moisture.
Feeling creative and carefree with the arrival of spring? You can prepare many other colorful meringues by adding your favorite colors to the mixture for a rainbow of meringues on the table!

