name:
Buccellati siciliani
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(550 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Lard: 6oz(170 g)
Eggs: 2
Milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(5 g)
Baker's ammonia: 1tsp(5 g)
Salt: 1pinch
Dried figs: 1.33lbs(600 g)
Orange marmelade: 7tbsp(100 g)
Raisins: ⅓cup(50 g)
Dark chocolate: 1.8oz(50 g)
Walnut kernels: ½cup(50 g)
Marsala wine: 2tbsp(30 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1spoonful
Nutmeg: to taste
Powdered sugar: 2 ⅛cups(270 g)
Egg whites: 2
Lemon juice: 5drops
Sprinkles: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + resting time for the filling (5 h) and the shortcrust pastry in the fridge (4 h)

instructions:
To prepare Sicilian buccellati, first focus on the filling: soak the raisins in Marsala for at least 15 minutes . Meanwhile, boil the figs in boiling water for 3 minutes , drain them, and dry with a clean cloth .
Remove the stems and cut them into pieces . Transfer the figs to a mixer and blend until you obtain a puree , then collect it in a bowl and set aside. Chop the chocolate with a knife .
Drain the raisins and chop the walnuts using a meat mallet . In the fig bowl, add the chocolate, raisins, walnuts, and orange marmalade .
Add the nutmeg, cinnamon , Marsala , and mix everything .
You should obtain a homogeneous mixture . Cover with plastic wrap touching the mixture , and let it rest in the refrigerator for 5 hours. Meanwhile, prepare the shortcrust pastry: sift the flour into the bowl of a stand mixer .
Add the lard cut into pieces and work with the paddle attachment on low speed until you achieve a sandy consistency. Add the sugar and yeast .
Finally, add the eggs, previously beaten with the ammonia . Work until you get a crumbly dough , then pour in the milk .
You need to obtain a dough made of coarse crumbs. Transfer everything to a work surface and knead with your hands until you form a smooth and homogeneous dough ball . Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 4 hours.
After this time, take the pastry and roll it out to form a rectangle about 1/8 inch thick . Place the filling in the center and shape it into a cylinder , then lift the pastry edge and wrap it around the filling .
Remove the excess pastry and seal the closure along the long side by pressing with your fingers .
Cut the roll obtained into slices about 1.5 inches thick and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 30 minutes. When the pastry is golden, remove from oven and let cool completely .
In the meantime, prepare the icing: pour the egg whites into a bowl and start beating with a fork . When foam begins to form, add the lemon juice , then also add the powdered sugar gradually, continuing to beat . You should obtain a creamy mixture.
Dip the top of the cooled buccellati in the icing and decorate with colored sprinkles . Your Sicilian buccellati are ready to be enjoyed !
Sicilian buccellati can be stored at room temperature in an airtight container for 4-5 days.
You can prepare the filling and pastry in advance and store them in the refrigerator for one day.
For the filling, you can use the spices you like most or have on hand.
You can choose to give the buccellati a different shape, for example, like a turnover: just cut out circular shapes with a cookie cutter, place a spoonful of filling in the center, fold the pastry into a half-moon shape, and seal the edges with a fork.

