name:
Crepe with Roquefort and walnuts
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: ⅓cup(40 g)
Buckwheat flour: 1 ¼cup(145 g)
Eggs: 1-
Egg yolks: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.4tbsp(6 g)
Whole milk: 0.67cup(160 ml)-
Water: 0.7cup(160 ml)
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)- to grease the pan for crepes
Roquefort: 1lb(450 g)
Walnut kernels: ½cup(50 g)
Thyme: 10tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 12 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + resting time for the batter

instructions:
To prepare the crepes with Roquefort and walnuts, start by making the buckwheat crepe batter. In a large bowl, sift the all-purpose flour and the buckwheat flour. In a separate small bowl, break the eggs and season with salt . Pour them into the bowl with the sifted flours .
Gradually add the milk, stirring to avoid lumps with a hand whisk. Then add the water at room temperature and the oil .
Continue to mix with the whisk to make the mixture smooth and lump-free . Then cover with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. After the necessary time, proceed with the preparation of the crepes. Grease the non-stick crepe pan with a small amount of butter and heat it. Pour in a ladle of batter and use a batter spreader to distribute it evenly over the surface of the pan . Cook for about one minute over medium-low heat.
Then, using a spatula, flip the buckwheat crepe . Cook this side for another minute. Transfer the buckwheat crepe to a plate. Repeat the process until all the batter is used, obtaining about 6 crepes with a diameter of 8.5 inches. Cover the crepes with plastic wrap until you fill them to prevent them from drying out when exposed to air. At this point, prepare the filling. Take the Roquefort and cut it into slices and then into chunks , and set aside.
Then coarsely chop the walnuts with a knife , or briefly blend them in a mixer, and set aside some walnut halves for the final garnish of the dish. Take a buckwheat crepe and warm it slightly in the appropriate pan for a few seconds over very low heat. Arrange some Roquefort chunks over the entire surface of the crepe and a sprinkle of chopped walnuts . Take the thyme, rinse it, and sprinkle some leaves over the Roquefort and walnuts .
Lift the edges of the crepe with the spatula and fold the crepe in half . Then close it into a fan shape, forming a kind of triangle. Repeat the operation for all the crepes. Place your crepes with Roquefort and walnuts on a bed of salad and decorate with the whole walnuts you saved before serving .
This preparation can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for up to 2 days.
It is not recommended to store buckwheat crepe batter for more than 12 hours in the refrigerator.
It is not advisable to freeze the crepes with Roquefort and walnuts.
Is Roquefort's flavor too strong for your guests' palates? You can try replacing it with another intensely flavored but milder cheese like Gorgonzola.
Some call them "crêpe aux blé noir" because the black color with which they are described resembles the color of the buckwheat flour used for the batter of these galettes.

