name:
Coconut panna cotta with raspberry coulis
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: 1.67cups(400 ml)
Coconut milk: 1.67cups(400 ml)
Gelatine: 0.4oz(10 g)- in sheets
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Raspberries: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Powdered sugar: 2.7tbsp(20 g)
Lemon juice: 1.3tbsp(20 ml)
Raspberries: 6
Mint: 12leaves
Shredded coconut: - to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 9 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + 3 hours of firming in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the coconut panna cotta with raspberry coulis, start by soaking the gelatin sheets in a bowl of cold water. Let them soften completely for at least 10 minutes and in the meantime, start preparing the panna cotta. In a saucepan, heat the cream over low heat, but do not let it boil, then add the coconut milk and the sugar , mixing well with the whisks.
After 10 minutes, squeeze the gelatin sheets well with your hands and add them to the mixture, mixing well until completely dissolved (if there are any lumps, pass everything through a fine-mesh sieve). At this point, turn off the heat and prepare 6 molds with a capacity of 150 ml on a tray, wetting the inside with water: this operation will help you to better extract the panna cotta once it has set. Then, with a ladle, pour the coconut panna cotta you have obtained, filling the molds to the brim .
Once this operation is completed , put the coconut panna cotta in the refrigerator to set for at least 3 hours, and in the meantime, prepare the How to prepare coulis , the accompanying sauce; squeeze a lemon and strain the juice through a sieve , then in a mixer place the raspberries (keeping 6 aside for the final decoration) and the sifted powdered sugar .
Add the lemon juice and then blend everything . Strain the coulis you have obtained through a fine-mesh sieve, helping yourself with a spatula and then set aside.
After 3 hours, when the panna cotta is firm, insert the blade of a knife halfway into the mold and run it around the perimeter to detach the panna cotta from the edges . Then, immerse each mold for a few seconds in boiling water, stopping 2-3 mm from the edge . After completing this step, decorate the serving plate with the raspberry coulis to create the base on which you will place the panna cotta, using a dispenser or a piping bag.
Finally, unmold the panna cotta (if necessary, give a little tap to release it) and then garnish it with the coulis on top . Lastly, with a knife, cut the raspberries you have set aside in half ;
thinly slice the coconut with a mandoline and complete the decoration with a raspberry , a couple of mint leaves, and the coconut slices ; once finished, serve the coconut panna cotta with raspberry coulis immediately.
It is recommended to consume the coconut panna cotta with raspberry coulis as soon as it is made. You can store it in the refrigerator for 1 day at most, closed in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended because the panna cotta, once thawed, would lose its initial consistency.
If you can't find fresh coconut, you can decorate your panna cotta with a dusting of coconut powder. All that's left for you to do is get cooking and enjoy the goodness of this delicious dessert!

