name:
Baci di champignon
ingredients:
Champignon mushrooms: 24- mushrooms
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ¾cup(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 4
Black olives: 8- pitted
Pine nuts: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Sage: 2leaves
Chives: 4fili
Rosemary: a few- needle

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note plus the resting time in the fridge, about 30 minutes

instructions:
To make the mushroom kisses, start with the filling cream: place the ricotta in a bowl and blend everything with a whisk until you get a smooth cream without lumps. Season with grated Parmesan, add salt, and pepper , mix to combine the ingredients. Divide the cream into two different bowls . Toast the pine nuts for a few seconds in a pan to make them golden and crunchier,
transfer them to the mixer with blades , also add the washed and dried fresh herbs: a few chives , rosemary needles ,
sage leaves , salt, and pepper with white pepper. Blend everything to obtain a creamy mixture that you will add to one of the two ricotta creams , mix with a whisk to combine the ingredients
then cover the cream with plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes. Take care of the second cream: take the sun-dried tomatoes in oil, drain them, dry them from excess oil with a kitchen cloth , and place them in the mixer ,
also add the pitted black olives and blend everything for a few moments , incorporate the mixture into the remaining ricotta cream , season with a pinch of white pepper and salt, mix with a spoon to combine the ingredients, cover with plastic wrap and let it set in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, you can take care of the How to Clean Porcini Mushrooms , remove the stem by gently twisting it, quickly clean them with cold water and dry them with a cloth, and peel the caps of the champignons with the help of a small knife : with the help of a small knife, also remove the edge and part of the inside of the mushrooms, as you clean them, place them on a cutting board. Take the creams from the fridge and quickly mix them again with a whisk;
transfer the creams to two piping bags and fill the caps alternating the flavors of the two creams , join the caps two by two as if they were the famous "lady's kisses", bring your mushroom kisses to the table immediately!
Mushroom kisses should be consumed immediately after being made because the mushrooms, when raw, tend to darken quickly, so it's good to prepare the cream a little in advance but clean the mushrooms just before serving. You can store the cream separately in an airtight container for 2-3 days and then fill the kisses before serving.
You can use another fresh cheese instead of ricotta, like robiola. I used a mix of fresh mixed herbs, you can replace these herbs with others of your liking, such as mint, basil, or bay leaf. Don't throw away the mushroom stems but use them to season pasta by cooking them in a pan with garlic and olive oil.

