name:
Maltagliati with Fish Ragù
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Eggs: 7.4oz(210 g)- (about 4 medium whole)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste- sprinkle
Shrimp paste: 7oz(200 g)
Salmon trout: 5.3oz(150 g)
Flounder: 5.3oz(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(50 g)
White onions: 1.1oz(30 g)
Carrots: 4 ½tbsp(30 g)
Celery: 1.1oz(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Tomato purée: 1.67cups(400 g)
Dry white wine: 2oz(50 g)
Thyme: 1sprig
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sugar: ¼tsp

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time of the pasta is at least 30 minutes

instructions:
To make the maltagliati with fish ragù, start by preparing the dough for the Homemade pasta (sheets and shapes) . Take a large bowl and pour in the flour , the eggs, and a pinch of salt . Knead the ingredients by hand until you obtain a homogeneous and elastic dough. If the dough is too sticky, you can add a little flour, but not too much to prevent it from becoming too dry and hard. If it is too dry, you can add a little warm water to make the dough softer and easier to work with.
Shape the dough into a sphere and wrap it in transparent cling film; let it rest for at least 30 minutes in a cool and dry place. After the necessary time, take the dough and remove the film. Roll out the dough with a rolling pin until you get a sheet 1-2 mm thick . Then cut strips
and cut them irregularly to create the maltagliati . However, try to make them all about the same size. As you produce the maltagliati, place them on a tray lightly floured with semolina, which you can also sprinkle on them to prevent them from sticking. By using semolina, you will avoid the fresh pasta absorbing the flour : set them aside. Then proceed with cleaning the fish: take the trout and remove the bones with kitchen tweezers .
Then, run the blade of a knife between the fish flesh and the skin to fillet the piece . Then cut it into cubes and set them aside. Also, cut the sole into cubes of the same size and set them aside as well.
Now focus on the shrimp: pull off the head and legs; do the same for the shell, also removing the tail . Cut along the back of the shrimp with a small knife and remove the intestine, being careful not to break it to extract it entirely : cut the shrimp into small pieces and set them aside.
Take the carrots, peel them, and cut them into chunks; peel the onion and cut it into pieces; do the same with the celery. Combine the vegetables in a mixer . Add the garlic and blend the ingredients into a very fine mince, which you will pour into a wide-bottomed non-stick pan drizzled with oil : let it stew over very low heat for about 10-12 minutes.
Add the shrimp to the pan . Also, add the sole and the trout : and let them sear in the pan over high heat for about 5-6 minutes, stirring continuously with a ladle to prevent them from sticking to the bottom of the pan.
Deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate. Now add the tomato sauce and sugar : mix the ingredients well to combine them.
Adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper, mixing the ingredients well . Then lower the heat: let it cook this way for about 10-15 minutes. When there are only a few minutes left before the end of cooking, boil the maltagliati in a pot with plenty of salted water for about 3 minutes .
When they are al dente, transfer them to the pan with the ragù and mix them with the sauce. Fragrance with previously washed and dried thyme leaves and finally plate your maltagliati with fish ragù !
We recommend consuming the maltagliati with fish ragù as soon as they are ready. You can store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 1 day.
You can also store the fresh pasta under vacuum for up to 2 days.
You can freeze the maltagliati on a tray sprinkled with a little semolina to prevent them from sticking, and once they are stiffened, you can transfer them to a freezer bag.
Looking for some inspiration to make the preparation more intriguing? With a spicy note of chili and a fresh touch of basil, you can't go wrong. Why not try adding more flavor with cherry or datterino tomatoes quickly seared in a pan? You'll see what a great impression you'll make with your friends!

