name:
Veggie burger
ingredients:
Dried lentils: 1cup(200 g)
Carrots: 0.9cup(100 g)
Stale bread: 1.67cups(100 g)- crumb
Eggs: 2.1oz(60 g)
Celery: 1.1oz(30 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 1oz(30 g)
Fresh scallion: 1
Thyme: to taste
Paprika: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste- organic unfiltered
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Hamburger muffins: 6
Provolone cheese: 6slices
Beefsteak tomatoes: 2
Fresh scallion: to taste
Mustard: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for the lentils (at least 2 h)

instructions:
To prepare the veggie burger, rinse the lentils well , then drain them and boil them for about 30 minutes from when the water starts to boil, in lightly salted water . You can refer to the package for cooking times. Once ready, drain them well and transfer them to the mixer bowl. Add the carrot, trimmed, peeled, and cut into pieces .
Also add the celery, with the outer part removed and cut into pieces, the spring onion cleaned and coarsely chopped , the sun-dried tomatoes drained from the preservation oil , and the egg .
Season with thyme and paprika . Blend all the ingredients until you get a smooth and soft cream .
Add the bread crumbs in pieces to the mixture and blend everything until you get a soft but malleable mixture . Line a baking sheet with parchment paper .
With the help of a 4-inch round cutter, form 6 burgers (about 2 tablespoons of mixture will be enough for each mold). Press the mixture well with the back of the spoon to compact the burger . Remove the ring and continue this way until you have 6 burgers .
Salt the surface of the burgers, drizzle a little oil on each one , and bake at 390°F in a preheated convection oven for 20-25 minutes, until golden. Meanwhile, slice the tomatoes about 1 cm thick . On another baking sheet, place the buns cut in half with a slice of provolone on top . Heat in the oven for a few minutes, just enough time to melt and soften the cheese.
Remove the burgers from the oven and assemble the sandwich: place the burger on top of the cheese , cover with a tomato slice and garnish with mustard .
Finish with spring onion rings and close with the other half of the bun . The veggie burger is ready to enjoy !
It is preferable to enjoy the composed veggie burger immediately.
The burgers alone can be frozen before the oven step.
It is possible to enrich the veggie burgers with other spices or seasonal vegetables!

