name:
Macaroni cheese
ingredients:
Cellentani pasta: 21oz(600 g)
Breadcrumbs: ¼cup(30 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Fontina cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Emmentaler cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- grated

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make macaroni and cheese, first cut all the cheeses into pieces, removing the rind ; place them in a mixer (if you don't have one, grate them by hand) and chop them .
Then prepare the cheese cream: in a pot, melt the butter and add the sifted flour , then mix the two ingredients with a whisk to form the roux . At this point, pour in the milk and continue to stir over low heat until you get a creamy and thick mixture.
Adjust with salt, pepper, and nutmeg , then add the grated cheeses and continue to cook for about 7 more minutes, stirring everything to combine the ingredients . Cook the pasta in plenty of boiling salted water .
Drain the macaroni very al dente, about a couple of minutes before the expected time, pour them into a bowl and drizzle with a little olive oil , then mix so that the pasta does not stick. Next, butter a large baking dish well and cover the base and sides with breadcrumbs .
Add the cheese cream to the pasta and mix well . Pour the pasta into the baking dish , sprinkle the surface with grated Parmesan and cook the macaroni and cheese in a preheated static oven for about half an hour at 350°F (320°F for a convection oven for 20-25 minutes) and continue for another 15 minutes putting the oven in grill mode to get a golden and crunchy crust. Once ready, remove the tray from the oven and serve your macaroni and cheese hot.
Macaroni and cheese can be stored in the refrigerator, covered, for up to 2 days. After baking, you can freeze the pasta in an airtight container and consume it as needed.
You can make macaroni and cheese using other pasta types like rigatoni, penne, or any other short pasta. You can use the cheeses you prefer, remembering to use at least one type of stringy and strong-tasting cheese. The original recipe includes unaged white cheddar. For optimal results, we recommend going easy on the salt in the pasta water, to better balance the flavor of the recipe, taking into account the saltiness of the cheese cream.
In America, there are many ready-made versions of macaroni and cheese. During World War II, the meager meat rations and the increasing presence of women away from home made Kraft's ready-made macaroni and cheese, the “Kraft Dinner,” one of the best-selling products of that period. Its shelf life of ten months, thanks to the development of processed cheeses, was crucial for those without a refrigerator. The slogan accompanying its advertisement stated: “A dinner for four, in nine minutes, at the price of 19 cents.”

