name:
Hazelnut tart with fig jam
ingredients:
Nut flour: 8tbsp(70 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: 4oz(115 g)- cold
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (1 medium)
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(140 g)
Hazelnut paste: 2tbsp(30 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Figs: 2.5lbs(1110 g)
Sugar: 2.3cups(460 g)
Lemon juice: ¼cup(50 g)
Water: 4 ½tbsp(70 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 4tbsp(20 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: 4 ½tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the hazelnut tart with Fig Jam , start by making the jam. After peeling all the figs, cut them into 4 parts , place them in a pot with water and bring to a boil. Shortly after, add the sugar, lemon juice and zest
and let the jam cook, skimming from time to time . As soon as the mixture reaches a temperature of 219°F , ensure using a kitchen thermometer, turn off the heat and transfer it to a bowl to cool down . If you want to preserve the jam for a longer time, you just need to sterilize the jars.
Proceed to prepare the hazelnut shortcrust pastry. In a mixer, add the all-purpose flour together with the hazelnut flour , then add the cold butter in small pieces and a pinch of salt . Blend for a few moments at high speed until you obtain a sandy mixture .
Pour the sandy mixture onto a work surface and form a well , in the center add the powdered sugar, the grated lemon zest , and the egg .
Quickly knead by hand, to avoid warming the dough too much, and also add the hazelnut paste ; when the paste is completely absorbed, wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for about 30-40 minutes . After this time, take the dough and roll it out on a lightly floured surface, using a rolling pin, roll it out to a thickness of about 0.2 inches . Save the leftover dough for the decoration strips.
Place the hazelnut shortcrust pastry in a 9.5-inch diameter pan, if you're not using a perforated mold, you will need to butter and flour it , then pour the fig jam and spread it over the entire surface of the pastry using a spoon. Sprinkle with hazelnut crumbs .
Roll out the leftover hazelnut shortcrust pastry and cut into strips about 0.8 inches wide, cut them with a smooth wheel and place them on the tart, laying them first in one direction and then the other , to form a lattice pattern.
Before baking the tart in a preheated oven at 350°F for 30 minutes (if the oven is fan-assisted at 320°F for about 20 minutes) brush with cream . When your hazelnut tart with fig jam is ready, let it cool , then remove from the mold and serve !
You can store the hazelnut tart with fig jam in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for 2-3 days. You can prepare the jam even the day before, covering it with plastic wrap and storing it in the refrigerator; there's no need to sterilize the jars. If you want to prepare it further in advance, sterilize the jars and store them in a cool place.
If you are a fan of nuts, try making the pastry with other pastes like almond or pistachio and decorate with similar crumbs. For those with a sweet tooth: add 0.7 oz of grated dark chocolate to the jam!

