name:
Vegetarian curry with pumpkin and chickpeas
ingredients:
Pumpkin: 1.75lbs(800 g)- cleaned
Dried chickpeas: 1 ⅛cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Hot Paprika: 1tsp
Curry: 1tsp
Powdered turmeric: 1tsp
Red onions: 2.8oz(80 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Vegetable broth: ¼cup(50 g)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
White wine: 3tbsp(40 g)
Thyme: 4sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Basmati rice: 1cup(240 g)
Onions: 1.5oz(40 g)
Cloves: 9
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Water: 2 ½cups(600 g)- warm
Cinnamon sticks: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 1 night of soaking the chickpeas

instructions:
To prepare the vegetarian curry, start with the chickpeas by taking a large bowl and soaking them in cold water : let them sit overnight. The next day, drain them and cook them for about 1 hour/1 hour and 30 minutes in a large pot with plenty of water (adjust the cooking time based on the instructions on the package of the chickpeas you buy) : they should be softened but not falling apart.
While the chickpeas are cooking, prepare the Vegetable broth , then focus on preparing the pumpkin: remove the seeds and inner strings , eliminate the outer skin . Then cut it into slices not too thick .
Cut it into cubes the same size as the chickpeas: this will help to achieve the same cooking time as the chickpeas. Set the diced pumpkin aside . Take a pot and sauté with a drizzle of oil half an onion pierced with cloves . This technique prevents the cloves from dispersing in the pot (they are used for flavoring) since they will be removed at the end of cooking. Then add the rice and toast it for a few minutes, stirring.
Add the whole cinnamon stick, then pour in ladles of water to aid cooking : add a ladle when the previous one has been absorbed: it will take about 10-12 minutes (or alternatively, adjust according to the instructions on the rice package you buy). Salt and pepper to taste. Do not stir the rice too much: it will be necessary to stir it from time to time only to prevent it from sticking to the bottom of the pot. Just before it's ready, give it a final stir and remove the onion and cinnamon stick. Set it aside and now proceed with the preparation of chickpeas and pumpkin: take an onion, peel it, then cut it into very thin wedges .
In a non-stick and wide-bottomed pan, heat the oil and brown a peeled whole garlic clove . When it is golden, remove it and add the onion to the pan . Deglaze with white wine and let the onion wilt .
When it is well wilted and the liquid evaporated, add the turmeric . Also season with paprika and curry (the amount of these ingredients can be adjusted based on your personal taste and the intensity of the flavor of the spices you use).
Mix the ingredients well . At this point, add the pumpkin: sauté it for about 4 minutes , adjusting with salt and pepper and being careful to stir it well to avoid sticking to the bottom of the pan. Then pour in the water to aid the cooking of the pumpkin and continue cooking over low heat for about 7-8 minutes.
When the water has evaporated, add the chickpeas . Season with the vegetable broth , lowering the flame to the minimum: the ingredients should cook and become soft but not fall apart. Let it cook until the liquid has been absorbed by the vegetables: if necessary, add another ladle of vegetable broth. Then season with well-rinsed thyme leaves , stirring well.
Adjust with salt and pepper: pumpkin and chickpeas are now ready . At this point, you can plate your vegetarian curry with pumpkin and chickpeas: if you prefer, you can shape the pilaf rice in individual aluminum molds for a stylish plating !
The vegetarian curry with pumpkin and chickpeas is excellent while still warm. If you have leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days.
We do not recommend freezing.
Want to add more kick to this delicate dish? Try adding chili pepper!
There are many types of curry: choose the one that best suits your taste, more or less spicy, to personalize this delicious preparation!

