name:
Mushroom Crepe Cake
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Butter: 1oz(30 g)- melted
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Salt: 1pinch
Nutmeg: to taste
Champignon mushrooms: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Chanterelle mushrooms (chanterelle): 10.5oz(300 g)
Leeks: 1 ½cup(130 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 10.6oz(300 g)- in a single slice
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the mushroom crepe cake, start with the Sweet and savory crepes (Basic recipe) batter: melt the butter in a saucepan over low heat, then let it cool. In a large bowl, pour the eggs and beat them with a fork, add the milk and mix the ingredients . Then sift the flour into the bowl with eggs and milk ,
mix well and add the cooled melted butter . Mix the mixture until it reaches a smooth and homogeneous consistency ,
then transfer it to a bowl, cover it with plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. Then take the champignon mushrooms: remove the soil from the stem with a knife , clean them with a damp cloth
then slice them . Then take the chanterelle mushrooms: use a brush to remove the soil from the stem and clean them gently with a damp cloth as well .
Then proceed by slicing the leek into rounds , sauté it in a pan with a little oil , let it stew for about 5 minutes, then add the champignon mushrooms ,
the chanterelles , adjust with salt and pepper, and cook them for at least 20 minutes. In the meantime, prepare the Béchamel sauce : heat the milk in a saucepan ,
melt the butter in a small pot over low heat, then turn off the heat and add the sifted flour gradually , stirring with a whisk to prevent lumps from forming.
You will have obtained what the French call roux: add a pinch of salt, then gradually add the hot milk while vigorously stirring everything with a whisk. Flavor with a bit of nutmeg and cook for 5-6 minutes over low heat until the sauce thickens and begins to boil. With this recipe, you will achieve a medium density; if you want a more liquid bechamel, you should decrease the amount of butter and flour.
After the required time, heat a crepe pan or a large non-stick pan (with a diameter between 7 and 9 inches) and grease it with a little butter; pour a ladle of batter in the center and spread it over the entire surface with the appropriate tool. Cook the crepes for one minute , moving the pan occasionally or using a spatula to detach them from the bottom, then flip them to cook the other side. As you make the crepes, place them one on top of the other on a serving plate .
Dice the cooked ham , then take a springform ring and place it on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and start assembling the cake: lay down a crepe layer, pour the bechamel, add the mushrooms, diced ham, a bit of grated Grana Padano cheese
and proceed in the same way with all the crepes . When the cake is finished, sprinkle it with the Grana Padano and bake it for 40 minutes at 350°F. Once ready, take it out and let it cool: your mushroom crepe cake is ready to be enjoyed!
You can store the mushroom crepe cake covered in the fridge for 3-4 days. It can also be frozen either raw or cooked.
Let the crepe cake cool completely so you can cut it more easily. Instead of cooked ham, you can also use mortadella, and instead of bechamel, you can prepare a delicious cheese cream!
For correct selection, treatment, and storage of mushrooms, we refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

