name:
Fregola with chickpeas and bacon
ingredients:
Fregola pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Smoked pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Dried chickpeas: 1 ¾cup(350 g)
White onions: 1- medium
Garlic: 1clove
Peperoncino: 1
Vegetable broth: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Tomato purée: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Parsley: 1bunch
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ¾tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the time to boil the chickpeas

instructions:
To prepare fregola with chickpeas and bacon, start by boiling the chickpeas. Soak them the night before in cold water , then drain them and boil them in a large pot for about 1h/1h and 30 minutes, depending also on what is indicated on the package ; they can also be cooked in a pressure cooker reducing the cooking time by half, or you can use pre-cooked chickpeas. Also prepare the Vegetable broth .
Clean and finely chop the onion and the garlic , then remove the seeds from the fresh chili pepper and also mince it .
In a large non-stick pan drizzled with olive oil, place the garlic, onion, and chili to cook: they should fry for 5 minutes . Lastly, chop the bacon: slice it and then cut it into small cubes . Add it to the sauté .
and continue cooking for another 3-4 minutes . At this point, pour in the tomato sauce , stirring again until it reaches a slight boil. Add the well-drained boiled chickpeas to the sauce and continue cooking for another 5 minutes .
Finally, add the fregola : continue cooking as if it were a risotto, gradually adding the vegetable broth , but keeping in mind that the preparation should remain a bit soupy. Adjust with salt and pepper .
When the fregola is al dente, turn off the heat and adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper. Finely chop the bunch of parsley and add it as a final touch . One last stir and your fregola with chickpeas and bacon is ready : serve it piping hot!
Once the fregola has cooled, it can be stored in the refrigerator for two or three days in an airtight container: when you need to serve it, you can heat it with a ladle of broth.
If you like to feel the texture of the tomato, instead of the sauce, you can use coarsely chopped peeled tomatoes

