name:
Zucchini and Their Flowers Pie
ingredients:
Baby Zucchini (summer squash): 20- (about 400 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 1 ⅓cup(150 g)
Breadcrumbs: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Puff pastry: 1roll- (from 230 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.8cup(80 g)- to grate
Garlic: 2cloves
Parsley: 2spoonfuls- minced
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls- + the one for the final coating
Butter: to taste- to butter the baking pan
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the zucchini and their flowers pie start by taking the zucchini flowers: remove the stem , the central pistil , and cut off the end of the flower .
Now cut the zucchini into rounds . Place in a fairly large pan the extra virgin olive oil, heat it for a minute, then add the crushed garlic and let it sauté for a couple of minutes . Now add the zucchini and let them cook for 10 minutes over low heat, stirring occasionally. Once the zucchini are tender, sprinkle them with finely chopped parsley and adjust with salt and pepper .
Now add the zucchini flowers , mix for a few seconds and turn off the heat. Take the puff pastry and roll it out slightly with a rolling pin . Place the pastry in a previously buttered mold and prick it with the tines of a fork .
Sprinkle the pastry in the mold with 50 g of Grana Padano . Then pour the zucchini and the flowers (which you can arrange in a radial pattern) .
Now cut the mozzarella into pieces not too small and carefully spread the mozzarella on the surface of the pie . Sprinkle with the Grana Padano ,
the breadcrumbs and finish by drizzling with a little extra virgin olive oil . Bake in a preheated oven at 350°F for about 15-20 minutes (if convection, 320°F for 10-15 minutes), until you see the surface of the savory pie well browned. Your savory pie filled with zucchini and their flowers is ready, let it cool slightly and serve it .
The zucchini and their flowers pie can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days closed in an airtight container. You can also freeze the zucchini and their flowers pie, divided into single-serving slices. Once defrosted, just pass the pie in the oven for a few minutes to revive it.
To add color to the zucchini and their flowers pie, you can add cherry tomatoes, sautéed in a pan with the zucchini, and then poured into the pastry. It is important not to cook the zucchini in the pan for too long, as they need to be tender but not fall apart.

