name:
Spicy ribs with citrus glaze
ingredients:
Pork: - Meat on fire 2 packages
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Lemons: 1- the juice and the grated zest
Dijon mustard: 1spoonful
Honey: 2spoonfuls
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
New potatoes: 4
Red Tropea onions: 1
Cluster tomatoes: 2- ripe
Lemon juice: 1spoonful
Rosemary: 2spoonfuls- minced
Black pepper: 2tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the spicy ribs, first make the glaze. Extract the juice from one lemon and grate the zest . Then take a bowl, pour in the oil, and honey ,
the grated lemon zest , mustard , lemon juice and emulsify with a fork.
Then pour the glaze obtained into a squeezer and let it rest in the refrigerator. Meanwhile, cut the potatoes into quarters and thinly slice the Tropea onion .
Place the potatoes in a disposable aluminum container, then add the potatoes and the onion . Finely chop the rosemary ,
then peel the tomatoes , remove their seeds , and cut them into strips .
Add the tomatoes to the potato tray , then add the chopped rosemary , lemon juice
drizzle with oil , add pepper and salt and mix well. Then cover the tray with a sheet of aluminum foil and place it on the grill and let cook for 25 minutes at medium-high heat .
Then proceed with the preparation of the ribs, drizzle them with a thin layer of citrus glaze , and grill them directly on the coals until a crispy crust forms on the surface , which will take about 5 minutes. Then move the ribs to the cool side of the barbecue, add the pre-moistened hickory chips to the coals, and smoke for about 30 minutes.
Then pour a couple of tablespoons of water into an aluminum tray , place the ribs , cover with aluminum, and continue cooking indirectly for another 30 minutes. Once the desired consistency is reached, put the ribs back on the grill for a couple of minutes to dry them out. Brush again with the glaze and serve with potatoes that should have a crunchy texture .
If you don't have a barbecue, you can cook the ribs in the oven, achieving the same result. Set the oven temperature to 392°F and let the ribs cook for about 1 hour, or until the meat starts to detach from the bone. We recommend placing the ribs directly on the oven rack and placing a drip tray or a baking dish with water at the bottom to collect the cooking liquids from the ribs. If you wish, you can place potatoes or other diced vegetables in the tray to cook them, letting them absorb the cooking juices from the ribs.

