name:
Bulgur with fresh herb and walnut pesto
ingredients:
Bulgur: 1.9cups(300 g)
Mint: 20tsp(10 g)
Chives: 3tbsp(10 g)
Basil: 1cup(30 g)
Walnut kernels: 1.75oz(50 g)
Almond slices: ⅓cup(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 18 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make bulgur with fresh herb and walnut pesto, start by preparing the bulgur: rinse the bulgur under running water, bring 2 1/2 cups of water to a boil , salt it and add the bulgur ; let it cook for about 15-20 minutes (or the time indicated on the package), then drain it, place it in a bowl
and cover it with plastic wrap , set it aside until it has cooled down. The bulgur will have doubled in volume. Now focus on the pesto: take a blender (if you prefer, you can use a mortar) and place inside the previously washed and dried herbs: the basil , the chive stems ,
the mint leaves , the clove of garlic (which you can omit if you don't like it), the shelled walnuts
and add a drizzle of oil , start the blender and gradually add more extra virgin olive oil as needed to obtain an almost velvety mixture . Season with salt and transfer the pesto into the bowl containing the bulgur, stirring so that the bulgur absorbs the flavor of the herb pesto .
Now toast the almonds for a few minutes in a hot pan without adding oil , turning them several times to avoid burning. Add the toasted almonds to the bulgur and mix to obtain a homogenous mixture. Your bulgur with fresh herb and walnut pesto is ready to be enjoyed!
You can store the bulgur with fresh herb and walnut pesto in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Bulgur can be used in the same preparations as couscous, which has now become common on our tables; its neutral flavor is well-suited to be accompanied by meat or fish sauces or as a side dish for unique dishes.
Bulgur is whole wheat that undergoes a particular processing method; the grains are steamed and then left to dry and subsequently ground into small pieces. Bulgur appears in the form of crumbs; cooking is similar to other cereals, as it is always recommended to cook it in twice its weight in water for about 15-20 minutes.

