name:
Smoked Swordfish Carpaccio with Apple and Arugula Salad
ingredients:
Smoked swordfish: 7oz(200 g)- carpaccio
Arugula: 5cups(100 g)
Granny Smith apples: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Chives: 0.1oz(0.5 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Greek yogurt: 0.4cup(100 g)
Mustard: 2tbsp(30 g)- ancient style
Lemon juice: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare smoked swordfish carpaccio with apple and arugula salad, start with the dressing sauce. Crush the garlic with a garlic press and place it in a small bowl. Add the filtered lemon juice and the whole grain mustard .
Add the Greek yogurt , season with extra virgin olive oil and mix well with a whisk until the sauce is smooth and homogeneous .
Adjust the sauce with pepper and salt , and set it aside. Finely chop the chives and set them aside as well. Then proceed to the apples: cut off the top and bottom with the stem
And peel the apples with a peeler . Then cut each apple in half, and each half into 2 parts , to get 4 wedges from each apple. Remove the core part from each wedge .
Now slice the wedges very thinly and transfer them to a bowl with cold water and the peel of the squeezed lemon to prevent oxidation of the fruit upon contact with air. In a large bowl, arrange the arugula. Drain the apples and add them to the bowl
Season with olive oil , salt, and pepper , mix lightly, and transfer the seasoned salad to the serving dish
Place the swordfish carpaccio on the bed of salad, arranging the slices into a rose shape . Drizzle the carpaccio with the previously prepared sauce and sprinkle with chopped chives . Your smoked swordfish carpaccio with apple and arugula salad is ready to be served !
The dressing sauce can be stored in the refrigerator covered for up to 2 days. The salad, due to the presence of apples that oxidize quickly, should be consumed immediately. The carpaccio once opened must be consumed on the same day.
This salad is so unique thanks to the juicy crispness of the apple that it pairs wonderfully not only with swordfish carpaccio but also with other smoked fish like tuna and salmon. Get creative and you won't be disappointed!

