name:
Cocoa tart with citrus curd and berry coulis
ingredients:
Butter: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.67cup(80 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2 ½tbsp(18 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Lemons: 1
Lime: 2
Oranges: 1
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Butter: 4 ¼tbsp(60 g)- softened
Gelatin in sheets: 0.33oz(10 g)
Blueberries: ½cup(70 g)
Blackberries: ½cup(70 g)
Raspberries: ½cup(70 g)
Powdered sugar: ¼cup(30 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.2oz(5 g)
Lemon juice: 1.3tbsp(20 ml)
Blackberries: 0.9cup(125 g)
Blueberries: 0.4cup(60 g)
Raspberries: 1 ¼cup(140 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 10 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note plus the resting and cooling times of the components

instructions:
To prepare the cocoa tart with citrus curd and berry coulis, start with the cocoa shortcrust pastry. In a mixer, place the sifted flour, cocoa, and finally the cold butter cut into cubes . Blend everything until you get a sandy and floury mixture. Transfer it to a work surface, shaping it into the classic fountain shape, then add the powdered sugar and beaten egg yolks . Proceed kneading it energetically with your hands .
Once you have obtained a fairly compact and elastic dough, form a loaf and wrap it in plastic wrap to let it rest for half an hour in the refrigerator. In the meantime, prepare the citrus curd. Grate the peel of the orange, lemon, and limes , then cut them in half .
Squeeze all the citrus fruits and at this point, strain the juice mix with a sieve . Set it aside and proceed with cooking the curd. Place the gelatin in a little cold water to soften it .
In a large bowl, put the egg yolks, whole eggs, and sugar and using electric beaters, whip until you get a light and frothy mixture. At this point, slowly add the citrus juices and their grated peels , continuing to whip to mix the ingredients well.
Now transfer everything to a saucepan to cook the curd in a double boiler : if you don't have the appropriate utensil, place a bowl with the mixture in a pot filled with a few fingers of water, ensuring the bottom does not touch the water. Cook on low heat for 2-3 minutes, stirring with a whisk, then add the butter cut into pieces and cook for another 10 minutes until you obtain a thick cream that you should strain with a sieve, using a spatula .
Drain the gelatin and squeeze it well, then add it to the cream and dissolve it by stirring carefully and for a long time . If necessary, strain it again. Cover the cream with plastic wrap and let it cool in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour. Meanwhile, bake the tart base: place the shortcrust dough on a lightly floured work surface and roll it out with a rolling pin to a very thin thickness, about 1/5 inch, then wrap it around the floured rolling pin and lay it on a previously buttered and floured 9 1/2-inch tart pan .
With the help of the rolling pin, trim the excess dough from the edges , then line the base with parchment paper and place baking weights on top (if you don't have them, you can use dried beans) . Bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 40 minutes (if using a fan oven, 300°F for 20 minutes), and once cooked, let the tart cool in the pan .
When the citrus curd is also ready, fill the tart with it , filling it up to a few millimeters from the edges, and place it in the refrigerator for 2 hours to set . Meanwhile, you can make the coulis. Soak the gelatin in a little cold water. Place the berries in a non-stick pan, add the lemon juice , and cook on low heat for 2-3 minutes or until the fruit releases all its water.
Add the powdered sugar , stir until everything is well combined, then let it cook for another minute on low heat . Strain the obtained mixture with a sieve to remove any seeds: press the fruits with the back of a spoon and collect the sauce in a small bowl .
Transfer the sauce to a saucepan and add the gelatin removed from the water and well-squeezed, then dissolve it over low heat, stirring the mixture for 5 minutes . Turn off the heat and take the filled tart out of the refrigerator. Pour the hot coulis over the surface, using a ladle and dosing it so that it does not overflow from the tart . Place the dessert back in the refrigerator for at least another 2 hours.
Once the necessary time has passed, you can finish with the decoration: cut the berries and arrange them as you like on the tart . Your cocoa tart with citrus curd and berry coulis is ready to be enjoyed.
The tart can be stored for 3-4 days in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap, or at room temperature under a glass dome.
To optimize time, you can prepare the cocoa tart and citrus curd the day before, so you can calmly focus on the berry coulis and decoration.

