name:
Savory Herb Pancakes
ingredients:
Eggs: 2- medium
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Smoked pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(70 ml)
Gruyere cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Chives: 1spoonful- chopped
Parsley: 2spoonfuls- minced
Basil: 1spoonful- minced
Instant yeast for salted preparations: ½tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls- (for the pan)
Sour cream: 0.3cup(80 g)- (or very thick Greek yogurt)
White pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the savory herb pancakes, start by coarsely grating the Gruyère cheese and set it aside. Brown the bacon cubes in a non-stick pan without adding any fats and let them brown over low heat, then drain them from excess fat and set aside. Chop the herbs separately: chives, basil, and parsley .
In a bowl, put the sifted flour and baking powder, and add the grated cheese and the chopped herbs one by one: parsley, chives, and basil (5-6).
In a separate small bowl, beat the eggs with the milk and add the obtained liquid to the bowl containing the rest of the dry ingredients . Mix well until a soft and homogeneous mixture is obtained, add the browned bacon cubes , salt and pepper, and mix one last time.
In a small non-stick pan, put 2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil and heat it over the stove: take 3 spoonfuls of batter at a time and place them in the pan , forming 3 pancakes that you will cook on both sides until they become golden brown . Remove the pancakes from the pan, drain them on absorbent paper, and keep them warm; put another tablespoon of olive oil in the pan and fry the remaining pancakes in the same way.
Prepare the cream to accompany the savory pancakes by mixing the sour cream (or Greek yogurt) and half a tablespoon of chopped chives , salt, and pepper evenly in a small bowl. Serve the savory herb pancakes with a spoonful of cream on each and a sprinkle of leftover chives .
Savory herb pancakes can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
You can replace the Gruyère with another type of cheese: cheddar or edam. For the cream, you can use parsley or basil instead of chives.

