name:
Baked omelette with ricotta and spinach
ingredients:
Eggs: 5- medium
Spinach: 1.1lbs(500 g)- cleaned
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Emmentaler cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Leeks: 1.7cups(150 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Butter: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the baked omelette with ricotta and spinach, start by thoroughly washing the spinach , then remove the larger stems and drain them. Thinly slice the leek , after removing the outer leaves and discarding the greener part of the stem; heat three tablespoons of oil in a non-stick pan and sauté the leek ;
Add the spinach to the pan , raise the heat and cook for a few minutes with the lid on . When the spinach is soft and well cooked, drain them, squeeze them in a strainer
and chop them with a knife . Now beat the eggs well with salt and pepper to taste, incorporate the fresh ricotta and beat again,
then add the grated Parmesan and grated Emmental and beat again. At this point, add the spinach to the egg and cheese mixture , mix everything well .
Meanwhile, butter and sprinkle with breadcrumbs a round mold about 9 inches in diameter . Pour the mixture into the pan, level it with a spatula and bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F and cook for at least 30-40 minutes (or in a convection oven at 320°F for about 25 minutes); the omelette will be ready when it starts to come away from the edges of the mold and the inside is no longer creamy . You can serve the baked omelette with ricotta and spinach hot or warm.
Store the baked omelette with ricotta and spinach in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to 2-3 days.
The baked omelette is also excellent with Swiss chard and beet greens instead of spinach: remember to remove the tougher parts of the stems before cooking them!
If you love this combination, don't miss our recipe for Ricotta and spinach bites !

