name:
Sliced Beef with Sweet and Sour Onions
ingredients:
Beef sirloin: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (entrecote)
Red onions: 0.9lb(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Thyme: 8sprigs
Balsamic vinegar: 2tbsp(30 ml)
Sugar: 2tsp(10 g)
Hawaiian salt: 1.3tsp(8 g)- black
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the sliced beef with sweet and sour onions, start by peeling the red onions. Cut them into 4 parts and then into smaller wedges , then take a non-stick pan and heat the extra virgin olive oil, when it is hot, add the butter . Once the butter has melted, add the red onion wedges and let them gently sauté.
When the red onions start to soften, add the balsamic vinegar and the sugar . Salt to taste and let them stew until they reach a soft but not mushy consistency .
Now take care of the meat: remove the meat from the fridge at least an hour before cooking, so it's not too cold but at room temperature. Place the sirloin or entrecôte on a cutting board and, with a sharp knife, remove the layer of fat on the surface until completely trimmed .
Then transfer the meat to a baking dish and pour the oil over it , using your hands to grease the piece well. Sprinkle the meat with Hawaiian black salt and thyme leaves .
Transfer the flavored meat back to the cutting board and divide it into two , then cut each piece in half to obtain 4 steaks .
Heat a griddle or non-stick pan very well and sear the steaks on both sides (16-17) to the desired level of doneness. If you prefer the inside to stay pink and not dry, cook for a maximum of 4-5 minutes. Avoid pricking the meat during cooking to prevent its juices from escaping. Once cooked, transfer the steak to a cutting board and cut it diagonally to obtain more precise and compact slices .
Form a layer of caramelized onions on a serving plate and place the sliced beef on top . Garnish with more Hawaiian black salt and thyme leaves and serve your sliced beef with sweet and sour onions immediately!
The sliced beef with sweet and sour onions is a dish that should be consumed and enjoyed immediately. However, it can be stored in the fridge in an airtight container or well covered with plastic wrap for up to one day.
If you don't like red onions, you can replace them with white or golden ones. If you want to try another type of meat, you can prepare a chicken sliced beef, paying close attention to the cooking, which will need to be longer: the chicken must be thoroughly cooked inside. If you can't find Hawaiian black salt, you can use regular coarse salt. Remember not to pierce the meat during cooking, as it is important for it to retain its juices, and the secret to great cooking is to heat the griddle well in advance.
Hawaiian black salt originates from the island of Molokai, the least inhabited of the archipelago. It is the last rural outpost of Hawaii, with only a few scattered settlements, no skyscrapers, no mass tourism, and half the population is of indigenous origin. Black salt is excellent for accompanying caviar, grilled meat, and vegetables, but also a simple pasta dish.

