name:
Chocolate cake with apricots and amaretti
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 7.1oz(200 g)- extra
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Butter: 10.7tbsp(150 g)
Whole milk: 0.4cup(100 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Amaretti cookies: 3.5oz(100 g)- (+ 12 for decoration)
Eggs: 4- medium
Apricots in syrup: 1.1cups(280 g)
Apricot jam: 2spoonfuls- for brushing

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate cake with apricots and amaretti, drain the apricots from the preservation liquid . Then chop the dark chocolate and place it in a saucepan to melt over very low heat along with the butter .
Stir with a wooden spoon and, when melted, pour in the milk . Stir again until you get a thick, lump-free sauce . While the chocolate cools, separate the yolks from the whites
and whip the yolks with two-thirds of the powdered sugar : you can use an electric beater or a hand whisk. Then pour in the melted, cooled chocolate and continue to work the mixture .
Then set aside 12 amaretti and chop the rest to reduce them to powder (10-11); sift the flour into the mixture and mix with a spatula;
then add the amaretti powder and mix everything well . Beat the egg whites until stiff with the remaining powdered sugar . Gently fold the egg whites into the mixture, stirring from top to bottom to prevent them from deflating .
Finally, dab the apricots with a kitchen towel and cut them into small cubes , leaving aside 8 whole ones for decoration. Add the chopped apricots to the mixture and mix ; then flour and line a 9-inch diameter cake pan with parchment paper. Pour the mixture inside and spread it with a spatula.
Then gently place the apricots on the surface, concave side up . You can space them slightly and place 7 on the edge and one in the center. You must leave space for the 12 amaretti, which you can alternate with the apricots . Once finished , bake the cake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 45 minutes (320°F for about 35 minutes if using a convection oven).
Meanwhile, melt the apricot jam over very low heat : when the cake is ready, take it out of the oven and while still hot, brush the jam over the apricots with a brush . The chocolate cake with apricots and amaretti is ready to be served !
Store the chocolate cake with apricots and amaretti in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, then you can take it out 15 minutes before serving.
It can be frozen if you used fresh ingredients that were not previously frozen.
Instead of syruped apricots, if they are in season, you can use fresh ones!

