name:
Puff Pastry with Swordfish and Shrimp
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1roll
Swordfish: 5.3oz(150 g)
Shrimp paste: 10tbsp(150 g)
Eggs: 4- medium
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: 1.67cups(400 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 1.75oz(50 g)
Pistachios: ⅓cup(40 g)
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Lime: 1- untreated zest + 50 g of juice
Chives: 1spoonful- finely chopped
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
White pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the time for marinating the fish

instructions:
To prepare the puff pastry with swordfish and shrimp, remove the skin from the swordfish using a knife . First cut the fish into strips and then into small cubes of 1/5 inch , then proceed with the How to clean shrimp : remove the head, the shell , then gently extract the intestine with your fingers or with a toothpick.
Place the cleaned fish in a baking dish (set aside 5 shrimp for the final decoration), pour the oil , add the grated lime zest and the finely chopped chives .
Add the white pepper , a pinch of salt, and the lime juice and mix well with a spoon; cover with plastic wrap and let marinate for at least 30 minutes .
Meanwhile, place the pistachios, breadcrumbs , and sun-dried tomatoes in a food processor with blades and chop everything .
Beat the eggs in a bowl (save a small amount) and add them to the ricotta ; also pour in the pistachio and breadcrumb mixture you prepared (reserving 3 tablespoons) and mix with the beaters
until you obtain a thick and homogeneous consistency . Season with salt and pepper. After the required time, drain the fish from the marinade liquid and add it to the ricotta-based mixture .
Mix with a spatula , then roll out the puff pastry with the help of a rolling pin in a 10-inch diameter tart pan lined with parchment paper . Pour the filling, distributing it evenly
and leveling it with a spatula . Gently fold the edges , then decorate the surface with the shrimp you set aside. Brush the edges with the beaten egg
and sprinkle them with the pistachio and sun-dried tomato mixture . Once finished , bake in a fan oven at 356°F for 40-45 minutes (or 392°F for 50-55 minutes). When ready, take it out of the oven, let it cool in the mold, and then enjoy your puff pastry with swordfish and shrimp .
You can store the puff pastry with swordfish and shrimp covered with plastic wrap in the refrigerator for up to 2 days once cooked. Once baked, you can freeze it only if you used fresh ingredients.
Do you want to add a touch of color and freshness? Decorate the surface of your puff pastry with cherry tomatoes!

