name:
Coconut and Lime Bavarian
ingredients:
Coconut: 1 ¼cup(300 g)- puree
Fresh liquid cream: 1.7cups(400 g)
Lime peel: 1
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)- granulated
Gelatin in sheets: 0.5oz(12 g)
Egg yolks: ½cup(120 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 5.3oz(150 g)
Egg whites: ¼cup(60 g)
Nut flour: 11tbsp(75 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.7oz(20 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.67cup(75 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Lime: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note plus the cooling time of the Bavarian, about 5-6 hours

instructions:
To prepare the coconut and lime Bavarian, you might want to start with the decoration, which takes some time (you could also prepare it the day before): wash and slice the lime into 1/16 inch thick slices , then dust them with powdered sugar and dry them in an oven at about 160°F for 6 hours (you could take advantage of the low oven temperature to make meringues to serve with the Bavarian!). Move on to preparing the biscuit: in a stand mixer, start working the eggs with the beaters (you can also use an electric mixer)
then mix the hazelnut flour, powdered sugar , and all-purpose flour . Also, whisk the egg whites with a pinch of salt
then gradually add the dry ingredients to the eggs and mix with a spatula, also add the whipped egg whites , mixing with the spatula from top to bottom to avoid deflating them. Pour the obtained mixture into a baking tray lined with parchment paper of 12x16 inches and spread it with a spatula to get a thickness of 1/5 inch. Bake in a preheated oven at 390°F for about 10 minutes (if using a convection oven, 355°F for 5 minutes): the biscuit should cook without hardening too much.
Meanwhile, dedicate yourself to the Bavarian: soak the gelatin in cold water for at least 10 minutes . In a saucepan, pour the milk and coconut puree and bring to a boil. Work the egg yolks with the sugar using a whisk .
Then pour the hot milk and coconut over the yolks , stirring, and transfer the mixture back to the saucepan. Continue cooking over low heat, stirring until the cream coats the spoon. Then strain the cream through a sieve
and collect it in a bowl, add the well-drained gelatin , and mix to completely dissolve it in the still hot cream. Once the gelatin is completely dissolved, place the bowl in a larger one containing ice (this process is used to quickly cool the cream while maintaining its consistency), also add the grated zest of 1 lime ; Whip the heavy cream with a stand mixer fitted with whisks or an electric mixer;
add it in three batches to the cream when it is completely cold , mixing from top to bottom to avoid deflating it. Retrieve the biscuit from the oven, gently detach the edges from the baking sheet using the blade of a small knife , then divide it into rectangles about 8 inches on the side (they should be slightly smaller than the loaf pan) ;
take a loaf pan 8.5x3.5 inches and pour the Bavarian into it using a ladle until just under half of the pan. Gently place a rectangle of biscuit on top of the Bavarian, unrolling it gently ; finish pouring the Bavarian
and finish with a rectangle of biscuit . Chill in the freezer overnight. Then defrost the Bavarian in the refrigerator for a few hours, then run a small knife along the sides of the pan to unmold the Bavarian more easily , turning it over onto a serving plate. You can decorate your coconut and lime Bavarian with the dried lime slices .
When making the Bavarian, you can store it in the freezer for about 30 days. Once defrosted, it should be stored for a maximum of 5 days in the refrigerator.
You can add a crunchy note by adding dark chocolate flakes or hazelnut pieces to the Bavarian.

