name:
Corn cake (Bolo de fubà)
ingredients:
Corn flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 ml)
Eggs: 3- at room temperature
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)- soft at room temperature
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Wildflower honey: ¼cup(80 g)
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)- (one packet)
Powdered sugar: to taste- to sprinkle as desired

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 2 h to soften the butter

instructions:
To prepare the corn cake (Bolo de fubá), make sure to remove the butter and eggs from the refrigerator two hours before starting to make the cake. Once they are at room temperature, pour the cornmeal and sugar into a stand mixer , then add the butter (which you have left out of the fridge for a couple of hours) now softened and the whole eggs at room temperature .
Also add the fresh milk , honey , and at this point, turn on the mixer until you obtain a fairly homogeneous mixture .
In a bowl, place the sifted all-purpose flour and baking powder ; then add the white flour to the cornmeal , turning the mixer again for about 5 minutes ;
continue mixing until you obtain a frothy and homogeneous mixture . Then butter and line a 9-inch cake pan with parchment paper , then gently pour the mixture you have obtained into it using a spatula .
Using the spatula, spread it evenly in the pan and finally bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 60 minutes (or in a convection oven at 320°F for 50 minutes); after the first 20 minutes of baking, cover the surface of the cake with aluminum foil, to prevent it from burning, and then finish baking. Once ready, take it out of the oven and let it cool . Sprinkle the corn cake (Bolo de fubá) with powdered sugar to taste and serve .
You can store the corn cake (Bolo de fubá) under a glass dome for up to 2-3 days. The cake can be frozen if you have used all fresh, non-defrosted ingredients.
The cornmeal used for making sweets is the fioretto, a type of finely ground flour. But if you can't find it, don't worry! You can also use the classic bramata flour, which is also used to prepare polenta.

