name:
Black Forest cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 6- medium
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Dark chocolate: 5oz(140 g)
Butter: 5tbsp(75 g)
Sugar: 14 ½tbsp(180 g)
Cornstarch: 6tbsp(50 g)
Baking powder: 3 ¼tsp(16 g)- (1 packet)
Cherries: 1.4lbs(650 g)- firm and ripe
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Kirsch liqueur: 2.5oz(70 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 6cups(1.4 l)
Powdered sugar: 0.67cup(80 g)
Cherries: 17
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)- to be turned into flakes
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)- in curls

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 15
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the Black Forest cake, start with the chocolate base. Roughly chop the dark chocolate and melt it in a bain-marie, ensuring that the bowl does not touch the water below. When the chocolate is completely melted, add the butter ; let it melt completely, stirring with a wooden spoon , then let it cool slightly.
In the meantime, place the egg yolks in a stand mixer with half of the granulated sugar , then whip until you obtain a light and fluffy mixture . Pour the now lukewarm chocolate mixture into the stand mixer's bowl .
Once a uniform mixture is obtained, sift the flour, corn starch, and baking powder and add them a little at a time , keeping the mixer on at low speed until you achieve a smooth and compact dough. At this point, start beating the egg whites until stiff , adding the remaining sugar only when they are already white and frothy .
Then incorporate them into the chocolate mixture a little at a time : initially add a couple of tablespoons and stir to soften the chocolate mass, then continue to incorporate the remaining egg whites, mixing from the bottom up to not deflate it. Continue this way until you obtain a smooth, lump-free, and frothy mixture. Butter and flour a 9.5-inch cake pan and pour the batter you've prepared into it .
Level the surface with a spatula and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 50 minutes (or at 320°F for 40 minutes if using a fan oven); to check the baking, do a toothpick test: if it comes out completely dry, the cake is done, otherwise, you will need to bake it for a few more minutes. When ready, take it out of the oven , let it rest for 5 minutes, then remove it from the mold, placing it on a plate or a cooling rack. In the meantime, prepare the cherries; pit them (set aside 17 whole ones with stems) and place them in a large non-stick pan;
add the sugar and the kirsch . Sauté them for a few minutes: the cherries should not break apart but only release the syrup .
Let them cool, then strain them with a fine-mesh strainer to separate the juice and divide the cherries and juice into two equal parts that you will use to fill the two layers of the cake. As soon as the cake is cold, cut it into three discs of equal thickness . Once finished , move on to assembling the Black Forest cake.
Take the first disc and place it on a rather large serving plate, then soak it with part of the cherry syrup you set aside , then arrange some of the cherries on the surface . Then prepare the Chantilly cream , whipping the cream together with the powdered sugar ;
Once a frothy mixture is obtained , spread 1/3 of it on the first layer , level it with a spatula and
cover with the second disc . Then continue with the second layer, pour the syrup and then the cherries, and finally another layer of whipped cream, leveling in the same way .
Cover with the last disc , finally cover the entire sides and the surface with the cream ; set aside a couple of tablespoons that you will use for the final decoration.
Once completed , with the help of a spoon, make the chocolate curls adhere along the outer circumference ; slightly soften the dark chocolate in the microwave, 3-4 seconds will suffice, and grate it with a vegetable peeler to create curls .
Distribute them on the surface of the cake, leaving a few inches from the edge . Put the chantilly cream in a piping bag with a star nozzle and decorate the edge of the cake with pretty tufts ; place a whole cherry on each . Once completed, let the Black Forest cake set for half an hour in the refrigerator before serving.
You can store the Black Forest cake for a maximum of 3 days in the refrigerator under a glass dome. Freezing the garnished cake is not recommended, while the base can be frozen.
One of the fundamental ingredients of the Black Forest cake is cherries. If you make this cake during the season when they ripen, you can use fresh ones; if cherries are not in season, you can also use sour cherries or canned cherries. Additionally, if you prefer, you can flavor the cream with kirsch or maraschino.

