name:
Nasi Goreng
ingredients:
Basmati rice: 1cup(250 g)
Chicken breast: 7oz(200 g)
Carrots: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Cabbage: 7oz(200 g)
Fresh scallion: 1
Soy sauce: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- sweet
Fresh chili pepper: ½
Sunflower seed oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Shallot: 3
Garlic: 2cloves
Sunflower seed oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Eggs: 4
Cucumbers: 1
Tomatoes: 1- salad bowls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare nasi goreng, first get all the ingredients ready: thinly slice the green part of the scallion , then cut the white part lengthwise and julienne it .
Peel the carrots and cut them into 4 lengthwise , then remove the central part and slice them obliquely .
Cut the chili into slices and julienne the cabbage . Bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the basmati rice for 8 minutes .
In the meantime, clean the chicken breast and cut it into approximately 1-inch pieces . Once the rice is cooked, drain it and let it cool in a colander .
Also prepare the ingredients for decoration: cut the tomato into wedges , then peel the cucumber in alternating strips and slice it thinly .
Finally, make the stir-fry sauce: peel the garlic and shallot cloves and put them in a blender along with half of the chili and the vegetable oil , then blend everything .
Move to the stove: grease a wok with vegetable oil using a paper towel , turn on the heat and add the garlic and chili sauce . Stir-fry for a minute over high heat, then add the white part of the scallion .
After a minute add the chicken and briefly brown it. When it starts to change color, add the carrots and cabbage and toss everything.
As soon as the vegetables have softened, season with salt and pepper , then deglaze with soy sauce and mix well to flavor. At this point, add the rice .
Toss everything over high heat for a few minutes, then add the green part of the scallion and the remaining half of the chili . Stir again and turn off the heat .
Grease a separate pan with vegetable oil, place a pastry ring inside and pour an egg into the center . Cook over low heat for a few minutes adding a pinch of salt, until the white is cooked, and the yolk is still soft . Proceed in this way to cook the other eggs (alternatively, you can cook them simultaneously using a larger pan).
Plate the nasi goreng by placing the fried egg on top and garnishing with the cucumbers and raw tomatoes. The nasi goreng is ready to be served !
Nasi goreng can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, without adding eggs, tomatoes, and cucumbers.
The pastry ring is used to give a regular shape to the fried egg, but it can be omitted.
The sweet soy sauce is called kecap manis and can be purchased online or at ethnic grocery stores.
The traditional recipe also includes adding shrimp paste ( teras ) to the stir-fry: if you wish to try this typical ingredient with a very strong flavor, you can blend it with the garlic, shallots, and chili mix.

