name:
Plaice with Hollandaise sauce
ingredients:
Flounder: 0.9lb(400 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(80 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Thyme: 8sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Clarified butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Egg yolks: 4
Lemon juice: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
White pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the plaice with Hollandaise sauce, start with the sauce: first, make the Clarified butter ; cut the butter , let it melt in a bain-marie being careful to skim it , and once purified of the casein, you can transfer it .
Meanwhile, prepare the sauce: it is very important that the cooking is in a bain-marie, so remember that the water should not touch the saucepan and should never come to a boil. Pour the egg yolks into the saucepan and break them with a whisk , mix and add the lemon juice , the salt ,
the white pepper , then add the clarified butter in a thin stream , and continue beating with the whisk .
Continuing to stir, you will see that gradually your sauce will start to change color , becoming lighter, and its consistency will change, becoming thicker. Cook for about 5 minutes over low heat, stirring constantly, and when it is ready, set it aside in a small bowl . Now focus on preparing the plaice: dry the plaice fillets with kitchen paper
put the flour in a baking dish, add the chopped thyme , and mix with a fork so that it is evenly distributed . Then dredge the plaice fillets well on both sides .
Once all the fillets are dredged , heat the butter in a non-stick pan , then gently place the fillets in it , and season with salt.
Cook the fillets for a couple of minutes on each side, being careful to turn them very gently , as they break apart very easily. Cook for a few more minutes, then place the fillets on some absorbent paper . Serve your fillets with the previously prepared Hollandaise sauce .
It is preferable to consume the plaice with Hollandaise sauce immediately after preparation. The Hollandaise sauce can be stored in the fridge for no more than two days, well covered; when using, take it out of the fridge about half an hour in advance because it tastes much better at room temperature than cold.
To best enjoy the rich and soft flavor of the sauce, it is best to consume it immediately; once stored, it tends to solidify and become compact like buttercream, far from the zabaglione-like consistency of the freshly made sauce. Try it also in the recipe for Sole en papillote with steamed vegetables !
You can accompany the plaice with a side of green beans, peas, or carrots.

