name:
Spicy Chicken and Peanut Stew
ingredients:
Chicken: 2.6lbs(1.2 kg)- whole
Cherry tomatoes: 4cups(600 g)
Red onions: 1
Cumin: 1tsp
Garlic: 4cloves
Peanut butter: 1spoonful
Peanut seed oil: 6spoonfuls
Chicken broth: ¾cup(200 ml)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: ½tsp
Basmati rice: 1 ¾cup(300 g)
Cinnamon sticks: ½
Vegetable broth: 3.3cups(800 g)
Yellow onions: 1- small
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)
Cloves: 5

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the spicy chicken and peanut stew, peel the red onion and cut it into pieces ; place it in a small bowl with the garlic and chili pepper . Chop everything with a mixer or an immersion blender and set aside.
Also wash the tomatoes and cut them into quarters , then move on to the chicken: clean it by removing the outer skin by scoring it with a very sharp knife ; once all the skin is removed , also remove any fat parts that may be present
then cut the chicken into pieces (7-8), carefully removing any small bones. Place the chicken in a bowl, add the salt
and the pepper ; then massage the meat with your hands so that it is well seasoned. Heat the peanut oil in a large non-stick pan and add the chicken pieces to brown.
Turn it over on both sides and cook for about 4-5 minutes on each side; then remove the chicken and set it aside in a warm place , covered with plastic wrap .
In the same pan where you browned the chicken, pour in the chopped onion and garlic , add the ground cumin and stir , letting the mixture soften for a few moments.
Then add the tomatoes and continue cooking for about 10 minutes until the tomatoes release their liquid and soften slightly. Now also add the chicken pieces , let them absorb the flavor, then cover with hot water or chicken broth and cover with a lid: cook for at least 40 minutes on a very low heat and check from time to time to ensure the liquid does not dry out too much. Meanwhile, prepare the pilaf rice: finely chop the onion and in a large saucepan, melt the butter, add the chopped onion to the melted butter and let it soften over low heat for about 15 minutes, until it becomes transparent: be careful not to let it color.
Add the cinnamon and cloves and stir for another two minutes. Meanwhile, rinse the rice under running water, drain it thoroughly and allow it to dry completely on a tray lined with absorbent paper .
Add the rice to the pan and toast it for a few moments, stirring with a wooden spatula. Then add all the broth (26-27). Cover the pan with a lid (there should be no vents) and let it cook for at least 18-20 minutes on moderate heat until the broth has completely dried. Once cooked and well dried, remove the pilaf rice from the heat, fluff it well with a fork and set aside.
In a small bowl, dilute the peanut butter with 2-3 tablespoons of the chicken cooking liquid and add it to the pan 10 minutes before finishing cooking the chicken . Once cooking is complete , serve the hot spicy chicken and peanut stew accompanied by pilaf rice!
You can store the chicken and peanut stew in the refrigerator for 1 day. It can be frozen if you used fresh, non-defrosted ingredients. The pilaf rice can be stored for 1-2 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container.
Instead of peanut butter, you can use peanut paste, easily made at home: just put a good amount of toasted but unsalted peanuts in the mixer and turn it on, increasing the speed until you get a homogeneous paste.
Looking for a non-spicy alternative? try our recipe for chicken stew with chestnuts and mushrooms!

