name:
Apricot Cake
ingredients:
Apricots: 4cups(600 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(330 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Butter: 0.8cup(180 g)- at room temperature
Greek yogurt: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Eggs: 3
Egg yolks: 1
Vanilla bean: 1
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the apricot cake, start with the fruit. Choose sweet, ripe apricots but with firm flesh. Gently wash them under running water . Set aside 5 whole apricots for the final decoration, and with the help of a knife, halve the other apricots , then remove the central pit and, without peeling them, cut them into cubes of about 0.6 inches and set them aside.
At this point, focus on making the batter for your cake. Place the room temperature butter in the bowl of a stand mixer, then add the sugar and start beating with the whisk at medium speed. In the meantime, scrape the seeds from the vanilla bean, slicing it open and scraping them with a small knife, then add them to the butter and sugar cream . Once you have a fluffy, well-mixed consistency, gradually add the yogurt .
Add the whole eggs and the yolk, one at a time, allowing them to incorporate into the batter , then beat for a few minutes and turn off the machine. Sift the flour, mixed with the baking powder, directly into the bowl , and mix with a hand whisk , being careful not to deflate the mixture too much. At this point, also add the salt.
Add the apricot pieces to the batter and mix until well combined. Transfer the mixture to a 9.5-inch diameter mold, previously buttered and lined with parchment paper , and level the surface with a spatula .
Take the apricots set aside, cut them in half, remove the pit, and gently place them on the surface of the cake with the hollow side facing down . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 60 minutes (if using a convection oven, bake at 320°F for about 40 minutes) . To ensure that the cake is properly cooked, try pricking it in the center with a skewer: if it comes out dry, your apricot cake is done. Once baked, let the cake cool slightly before removing it from the mold, then place it on a rack to cool completely, and finally on a serving plate . If you prefer, you can dust your apricot cake with powdered sugar and serve it.
Store your apricot cake under a glass dome for 1-2 days at most.
Once your apricot cake has cooled, to make the apricots shinier, you can brush them with some apricot jam.

