name:
Fried chicken wings
ingredients:
Chicken wings: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Sweet Paprika: 2tsp
Lemon juice: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 2
Type 00 flour: 4spoonfuls
Panko: 3cups(150 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Peanut seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Natural plain yogurt: 2cups(160 g)
Mustard: 2spoonfuls
Lemon juice: 2spoonfuls
Wildflower honey: 1spoonful
Chives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 30 min. of marinating in the fridge

instructions:
To prepare fried chicken wings, first clean the wings: remove the tip of the bone by cutting it off cleanly , then eliminate any remaining feathers by burning them with a culinary torch . Briefly rinse the chicken wings under running water .
Dry well with paper towels . Transfer the chicken wings to a bowl and season with salt , pepper, and lemon juice .
Add the paprika and mix with your hands to evenly flavor . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let marinate in the fridge for 30 minutes .
Prepare the batter: beat the eggs in a bowl , then add salt, pepper, and flour . Mix well with a whisk .
You should achieve a fluid and homogeneous consistency . For the breading: place the panko and breadcrumbs in a bowl , then mix .
After the marinating time, take the chicken wings and immerse them first in the batter and then in the breading, covering both sides well . As you bread them, place the wings on a tray .
Set the wings aside for a moment and prepare the yogurt sauce: in a small bowl, combine the yogurt, mustard , honey , and lemon juice .
Add salt, pepper, and chopped chives , then mix to combine . You’re ready for frying: heat the oil in a saucepan and, when it reaches 356°F, immerse a few wings at a time .
Fry until golden brown, then drain and transfer to paper towels . Add a pinch of salt and serve your fried chicken wings with the yogurt sauce !
It is advisable to consume fried chicken wings as soon as they are ready. If any are left over, you can store them in the refrigerator for one day and heat them in the oven before serving.
If you prefer, you can replace the paprika with curry for the breading.
Looking for a lighter yet equally crispy version? Try the Chicken wings with air fryer recipe!

