name:
Strawberry Curd Tart
ingredients:
Flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Eggs: 1
Sugar: ½cup(120 g)
Strawberries: 2cups(500 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(120 g)
Cornstarch: 3tbsp(25 g)
Butter: 5.6tbsp(80 g)
Eggs: 2
Water: 8tsp(40 g)- at room temperature
Lemon peel: 1- untreated
White chocolate: 0.7oz(20 g)
Strawberries: 1 ½cup(250 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + resting time for the pastry dough (30 minutes) and setting time for the curd (at least 30 minutes)

instructions:
To prepare the strawberry curd tart, first start with the Shortcrust pastry . Take a stand mixer, add the refrigerator-cold butter with the sugar . Mix the ingredients to combine them evenly with the paddle attachment. Then add flour and egg .
Continue mixing using the paddle attachment and when the dough is smooth and well combined, transfer it to a work surface and shape it into a loaf. Cover it with clear plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator to rest for at least 30 minutes. In the meantime, prepare the strawberries. Rinse the strawberries under running water, remove the green stem, and cut 250g into slices about 1/8 inch thick . Set them aside in a small bowl, as they will be used for the final decoration.
Then roughly chop the remaining 500g and place them in a saucepan, in a bain-marie over another larger saucepan . Add powdered sugar and room temperature water .
Using a spatula to mix the ingredients well and let the strawberries cook for 5 minutes. Then take an untreated lemon and grate the zest . Now add the lemon zest to the strawberry curd and let it cook for another 20 minutes.
At this point, take the strawberries and strain them into a bowl with a fine-mesh sieve . Then, using a spatula, press them to filter not only the juice but also as much pulp as possible. Move the filtered strawberry pulp back into the bain-marie and add butter .
Now add the eggs . Continue to mix the ingredients well with a spatula to create a smooth mixture without lumps. In a separate small bowl, add cornstarch and dissolve it with a splash of room temperature water stirring with a kitchen spoon. Then pour it into the strawberry curd in the bain-marie and mix the ingredients well with a hand whisk.
Continue cooking in the bain-marie for another 5 minutes, stirring the ingredients well with the hand whisk . Then transfer the curd into a small bowl and let it cool for about 20 minutes at room temperature . Then return to the pastry preparation. Roll out the pastry that you left to rest in the fridge on a work surface. Lightly flour the work surface to prevent the pastry from sticking, then roll it out until it’s about 1/5 inch thick.
Now butter a 9-inch tart pan and use the rolling pin to lift the rolled-out pastry and place it in the tart pan , ensuring it adheres well to the edges by pressing lightly with your fingers . Then remove the excess dough protruding from the edges of the tart pan using a small knife .
Then, using a fork, prick the bottom of the tart . Cut a 11-inch circle of parchment paper and place it on the pastry where you will place ceramic baking beads (or beans) to allow blind baking (you can also consult the guide on How to do blind baking for more detail) . Bake the tart in a preheated static oven at 365°F for 20 minutes (or fan-forced at 330°F for 10 minutes). Once baked, remove the ceramic beads and parchment paper. Then bake again for an additional 10 minutes, so you can see the bottom of the tart become golden . The base for your strawberry curd tart pastry is now ready.
When the curd has cooled, pour it into the tart . Place the tart filled with the curd to rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes (if you notice the curd doesn’t set, extend the resting time in the refrigerator - this could take up to 2 hours). This step is necessary to let the curd set before proceeding with the decoration. Once the curd is set, arrange the sliced strawberries in a radial pattern until the entire surface of the tart is filled .
To complete the decoration, chop the white chocolate and melt it in a bain-marie , stirring well with a spatula. Then transfer it to a paper cone for decoration and decorate the surface by drawing some lines of white chocolate over the tart . Your strawberry curd tart is now ready to be served and enjoyed !
The strawberry curd tart can be stored in the refrigerator for 4-5 days. It can be frozen if you used only fresh ingredients. The strawberry curd can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days by placing plastic wrap in contact to prevent a crust from forming on the surface. It can also be frozen for up to 1 month. You can store the pastry in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for a couple of days at most. It's also possible to freeze the pastry wrapped in plastic wrap or in a freezer bag for up to 2-3 months.
For an original tart, you can create a thin layer of strawberry curd. Then wait for it to set in the refrigerator and proceed with another layer of Lemon curd to achieve a cheerful and fun color effect. The taste? You won't be able to resist it!

