name:
Chicken sticks with mustard sauce
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Parsley: 2spoonfuls- minced
Peeled almonds: ¼cup(40 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅓cup(40 g)
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(60 g)
Eggs: 2
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Dijon mustard: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Mustard: 2tbsp(30 g)
Honey: 1tbsp(20 g)
Mayonnaise: ½cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare chicken sticks with mustard sauce, start with the sauce: first add Dijon mustard to the mayonnaise, then the milder mustard , and finally the honey . Mix with a spatula or spoon to obtain a homogeneous mixture and cover the bowl with plastic wrap. Then place the bowl in the refrigerator.
Clean the chicken breast with a knife from any fat or internal cartilage turn it over with the inner side resting on the cutting board , then cut it into slices 1/2 inch thick, which you will reduce into square-section strips .
Coarsely chop the almonds, using a food processor . In a bowl, add the chopped almonds, breadcrumbs, grated cheese , pepper, and chopped parsley .
In a separate bowl, crack the eggs and beat them with a fork, adjusting salt to taste . In another bowl, put the flour. Dredge the chicken sticks in the flour until completely coated .
Once floured, dip them in the beaten egg and then in the breading . In a pot, heat the oil for a few minutes. To know when it's hot enough, drop a little breadcrumb; if it sizzles, then immerse the sticks .
Cook the chicken sticks until they are golden brown . Alternatively, prepare the chicken sticks in the oven, baking them for 5 minutes at 480°F in a static oven (4 minutes at 450°F if using a convection oven) and finish cooking with 5 minutes of broil. Place the cooked sticks on a tray lined with paper towels . Remove the sauce from the refrigerator and place it in a small bowl, and your chicken sticks with mustard sauce are ready to be enjoyed .
Chicken bites with mustard sauce are best enjoyed crunchy if eaten right away. You can store them in the fridge already fried for one day, covered with plastic wrap. If you used fresh chicken, you can freeze the already fried sticks in a food bag.
As an alternative to mustard sauce, you can enjoy the chicken bites with garlic sauce Aioli or with mayonnaise.

