name:
Pea and Ricotta Croquettes
ingredients:
Peas: 1 ¼cup(200 g)- shelled
Ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(90 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to grate)
Eggs: 3
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fresh scallion: 1.75oz(50 g)
Water: 1tbsp(15 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(50 g)
Peanut seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 18 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pea and ricotta croquettes, start by cleaning the spring onion and chopping it finely , then pour it into a pan with extra virgin olive oil and let it soften for five minutes over low heat .
Then pour in the shelled peas , add some water and a pinch of salt ; let them cook for about ten more minutes, until the water has completely evaporated.
When cooked, let the peas cool slightly then pour them into a mixer , add the ricotta , and blend until you get a thick cream .
Transfer the cream into a bowl and add the grated Grana Padano DOP . Meanwhile, break the eggs and separate the yolks from the whites into two different bowls (the whites will be used for the breading) . Beat the yolks with a fork ,
and pour them over the mixture. Grate the nutmeg , then add the breadcrumbs and mix with your hands .
Finally, adjust with salt and pepper . Take 1.4 ounces of the mixture and shape it into croquettes, molding it until you get cylinders, slightly rounded, 1.18 inches thick and 2.75 inches long: by doing so, you should get 18 pieces. Gradually place the croquettes on a tray where you have laid a sheet of parchment paper to prevent them from sticking to the bottom .
With a fork, quickly beat the egg whites for a few moments and then dip each croquette one at a time , drain it well and then pass it in the breadcrumbs making sure the crumbs adhere to all sides
and repeat for all the other croquettes . Pour plenty of seed oil into a pan and let it heat up to 338°F (use a kitchen thermometer to measure the exact temperature), then pour in 4-5 croquettes at a time in this way you will maintain a constant temperature and turn them occasionally to even out the cooking .
After a few minutes of cooking, when the croquettes are well golden, remove them with a slotted spoon and let them drain for a few minutes on a tray with paper towels . Enjoy your pea and ricotta croquettes as soon as they're ready!
It is recommended to consume the pea and ricotta croquettes immediately; however, if you want, you can store them even once cooked, covering them with plastic wrap and keeping them in the refrigerator for up to 1-2 days. Once the croquettes are formed and coated in egg and breadcrumbs, you can freeze them. You can store the mixture in the refrigerator for 1 day, covered with plastic wrap.
Do you want to add a touch of flavor? You can't help but try adding small cubes of cooked ham or bacon for the more daring palates. For vegetarian friends, add some unblended peas or cubed carrots blanched for a few minutes. A version that will please everyone: mozzarella cubes in the middle!

