name:
Chicken pockets with baked goat cheese
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- whole
Goat: 5.6oz(160 g)
Chives: 4fili
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(50 g)
Parsley: 20tbsp(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 1sprig
Thyme: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare chicken pockets with baked goat cheese, start with the meat. Take the chicken breasts and cut them in half , then remove the cartilage on the back and the small bones inside . Trim the bases as evenly as possible, without discarding more meat than necessary.
Cut the breasts starting from the top and using a sharp knife, cut into the meat to create the pocket while being careful not to cut all the way through: this way the filling will not spill out. Set the chicken aside and now season the filling: finely chop the chives , then place the goat cheese in a bowl and mix it to soften .
Add the chopped chives to the cheese and adjust with salt and pepper , mixing well to blend the flavors and obtain a smooth and creamy mixture.
You can now stuff the chicken. Open the pockets and use a teaspoon to spread plenty of goat cheese on the meat . Close the chicken by pressing along the incision to prevent it from opening during cooking . Let the chicken pockets rest while preparing the breading by finely chopping fresh parsley, rosemary, thyme, and garlic together .
Now spread the breadcrumbs on a large tray and add the freshly obtained chop . Adjust with salt, pepper and mix the breading to blend everything together . Using a kitchen brush, drizzle oil over both sides of the meat
and then pass each pocket through the aromatic breading, making sure the breadcrumbs adhere well to each side . Place the meat on a baking tray lined with parchment paper, without overlapping the pockets . If you have leftover breading, you can sprinkle more on the chicken. Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 25 minutes, then raise to 410°F in grill mode for 5-6 minutes: the surface should be golden and the inside tender but well-cooked . Your chicken pockets with baked goat cheese are ready to be served.
You can store the cooked stuffed chicken pockets either in the refrigerator for a couple of days or, if you have used fresh and not defrosted ingredients, in the freezer placed in an airtight container.
You can customize the breading or filling: use fresh basil or marjoram, or choose white pepper instead of black. If you don't like garlic, you can omit it.

