name:
Wild boar stew with buckwheat polenta
ingredients:
Boar: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- lean, boneless
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Fresh scallion: 1
Pancetta: 1.8oz(50 g)- Piacenza style
Tomato paste: 2spoonfuls
Lard: 1spoonful
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Red wine: 0.4cup(100 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 1spoonful
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Baking soda: ½tsp(2 g)
Red wine: 3 ¼cups(750 g)
Leeks: 1
Sage: 10leaves
Bay leaves: 5leaves
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Cloves: 10
Juniper berries: 5
Buckwheat flour: 0.833cup(100 g)
Bramata corn flour: 2.1oz(60 g)
Water: 1.7cups(400 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Mountain cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Coarse salt: 1tsp
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Sage: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 3 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + marinating time in the fridge (24+24 h)

instructions:
To prepare the wild boar stew with buckwheat polenta, first cut the wild boar meat into chunks of about 1 inch (3 cm) . Transfer them to a bowl, pour in the milk , and add the baking soda ; make sure the meat is completely covered by the liquid.
Massage the meat well , then cover with plastic wrap and let marinate in the refrigerator for 24 hours. After this time , drain the marinade liquid and rinse the boar under running water .
Set the meat aside in a colander and prepare the second marinade: clean and roughly chop the carrot, celery, green onion, and leek . Transfer the wild boar meat to a wide and shallow container , then distribute the vegetables on top .
Add the sage , bay leaf, rosemary , and juniper berries .
Add the cloves as well, then pour in the red wine and cover with plastic wrap . Marinate in the refrigerator for another 24 hours.
After this time, prepare the vegetable broth and keep it warm. Then take the meat out of the marinade, let it drain in a sieve , and discard the vegetables. Clean and dice the carrot and celery, then thinly slice the green onion . In a cast-iron pot, gently melt the lard with the butter .
Add the chopped pancetta and briefly fry over high heat, then add the wild boar meat and brown it well for a few minutes. At this point, add the vegetables .
Sauté for a couple of minutes , then season with the tomato paste and stir to combine. Deglaze with the red wine and let the alcohol evaporate completely.
Cover with the vegetable broth , season with salt and pepper , cover with the lid , and cook over low heat for 2 and a half hours.
At the end of cooking, turn off the heat and finish with the unsweetened cocoa , stirring well to combine. For the buckwheat polenta, pour the water and milk into a saucepan, then bring to a boil.
Pour the cornmeal in a thin stream while stirring with a whisk , then do the same with the buckwheat flour . Salt , lower the heat, and cook for 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. Meanwhile, melt the butter in a saucepan with the sage leaves.
Once cooked, turn off the heat and stir in the flavored melted butter and the cubed cheese . Mix well to melt the cheese and achieve a smooth consistency .
You're ready to plate: distribute the polenta on the plate and place the meat chunks on top . Your wild boar stew with buckwheat polenta is ready to be served !
The wild boar stew with buckwheat polenta can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, in an airtight container.
The stew can be frozen.
For the wild boar stew, we recommend choosing a good quality red wine.
For the buckwheat polenta, you can use a mountain cheese of your choice, such as Branzi, Casera, Bitto, or Formai de Mut.
Looking for more game recipes? Don't miss the Venison Roast , perfect for more special occasions!

