name:
Lamb tagine with plums and almonds
ingredients:
Water: 6 ½cups(1.5 l)
Carrots: 2
Yellow onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Coriander: 1bunch
Fine salt: to taste
Leg of lamb: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Dried prunes: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Peeled almonds: 2.5oz(70 g)
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Saffron: 1bag
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh ginger: (30 g)
Powdered turmeric: 2tsp(5 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Wildflower honey: 2tbsp(40 g)
Yellow onions: 7oz(200 g)
Orange juice: 0.4cup(100 ml)
Black pepper: to taste
Couscous: 1.6cups(280 g)- precooked
Butter: 1.4tbsp(20 g)- + 1 knob for greasing
Green Peperoncino: 1pinch
Cardamon: ¼tsp(1 g)- in powder
Star anise: 1
Fennel seeds: ½tsp(2 g)
Cumin: ½tsp(1 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Mint: a few- little leaf
Parsley: 1bunch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High
Note more the soaking time of the plums (about an hour)

instructions:
To prepare the lamb tagine with plums and almonds with aromatic couscous, start with the vegetable broth: fill a large pot with water, salt it, and bring it to a boil, then peel the carrots with a vegetable peeler and cut them into pieces . Continue by peeling the celery stalk and cutting it into pieces . Then peel an onion and cut it into quarters.
Rinse a bunch of fresh coriander under running water, place it on a cutting board and chop it , alternatively, you can also use dried coriander. At this point, add the chopped vegetables and fresh coriander to the boiling water and let it cook on low heat for at least 20-30 minutes . Let the broth simmer, allowing the vegetables to cook slowly and release their flavor.
Meanwhile, squeeze the oranges and pour the juice over the plums for the lamb tagine . Let the plums marinate for about 1 hour, allowing them to rehydrate. The orange juice gives the plums a pleasant tang, but you can also use apple juice or berry juice, as long as it is pulp-free and pairs well with the flavor of the plums. Now focus on cutting the lamb meat: place the lamb leg on a cutting board and remove the fatty parts using a sharp knife .
Then divide the leg in half and, still using the knife, carve the meat around the bone , until it is completely removed .
Cut the lamb meat into regular cubes of about 3/4 inch so that the cooking is more uniform. Then peel an onion and chop it along with the two peeled garlic cloves .
Take the tagine, the typical North African terracotta pot, place it on the stove, pour in a drizzle of oil, and let the onion and garlic mixture turn golden . After 2 minutes, add the lamb cubes and let them brown, stirring with a spoon. Add a cinnamon stick .
Add the saffron , turmeric , and finally grate the fresh ginger . Mix well and let everything sauté for 5 minutes with the tagine lid on.
After this time, salt and pepper to taste and pour two ladles of broth , which will be ready by now, until the spiced meat is completely covered . Cover the tagine with its conical lid and let it cook for about an hour on very low heat.
In the meantime, focus on the couscous: start by toasting the dried spice mix. In a non-stick pan, pour the star anise and a cinnamon stick, add the cardamom powder , fennel seeds , and cumin .
Finally add the chili powder and toast over high heat for about 2 minutes, just enough time for the spices to release their aromas . Then let the spice mix cool and transfer it to a mixer, blend for a few seconds and set aside.
Now prepare the fresh spice mince: rinse the fresh parsley under running water and chop it finely , do the same with the mint leaves, wash and chop them . Then butter a large, high-sided pot and pour in the pre-cooked couscous , spreading it out so it doesn't overlap too much.
Gradually add about 1 1/4 cups of broth , stirring with a fork. Cover and let it rest for 10 minutes, until it swells . After this time, add 1 1/2 tbsps of butter and fluff the couscous with the tines of a fork .
Pour in the ground spice mix , the chopped parsley, and mint (38-39).
Grate the zest of a lemon and mix well to combine everything. Let the couscous rest covered until the tagine is ready to be served. Now drain the plums from the orange juice using a colander and add them to the lamb .
Add the wildflower honey , which enhances the sweet and sour note, and let it cook for another 20 minutes. Alternatively, you can substitute the honey with brown sugar. Meanwhile, place the whole peeled almonds on a cutting board and slice them into slivers , then transfer the almond slivers to a non-stick pan and toast them over moderate heat until they are golden, being careful not to burn them.
At this point, add the almonds to the lamb, plums, and spice mixture and stir to combine everything . All that remains is to immediately serve the lamb tagine with plums and almonds accompanied by the aromatic couscous !
The lamb tagine with plums and almonds is best consumed immediately. However, you can store it in the fridge for up to one day in an airtight container or well-covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended. The aromatic couscous should also be consumed immediately and can be stored in the fridge well-covered with plastic wrap for one day.
If you don't like lamb, you can make this recipe with chicken, keeping the same cooking times. Then use the spices you prefer, perhaps adding a bit of tarragon to the fresh spices, which will give a refreshing touch. Finally, I suggest serving the tagine directly from the stove, so everyone can help themselves from the pot and, why not? With their hands! This custom strengthens the bonds of North African communities and families, try it at home too!

