name:
Veal roll with vegetables
ingredients:
Veal rump: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- in a whole slice
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)
Smoked pancetta: 3oz(80 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Parsley: 2spoonfuls- minced
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
White wine: 1cup(250 ml)
Bread: - breadcrumbs 100 g
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Potatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Baby carrots: 7oz(200 g)
Green beans: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Yellow onions: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the veal roll with vegetables, pound the meat with a meat tenderizer and remove any fat or cartilage, then salt and pepper the surface. Prepare the meat filling: take the bread, remove the crust with a knife , reduce it to crumbs with a mixer, and transfer it to a large bowl .
Add finely chopped smoked bacon, two egg yolks , chopped parsley , Grana Padano PDO , then salt and pepper.
Mix all the ingredients with your hands and place the mixture obtained on the meat, leaving a border of about 1 inch all around. Roll the meat onto itself and tie it with kitchen string, as shown in figures 9
and 10 (see how to tie a roast How to tie a roast ). In a large ovenproof pot, cook the roll over high heat with 3 tablespoons of olive oil, turning it occasionally to brown it on all sides . When the roll is well browned, deglaze with white wine .
Clean the vegetables, then slice the onion , dice the carrots , and the potatoes, then add them to the meat .
Clean and trim the green beans, then add them to the meat and cover with a lid to continue cooking without dispersing steam. The ingredients inside the pot will cook for about 60 minutes over low heat, without adding water: the liquids released by the meat and vegetables will provide the right level of moisture needed to ensure the roll cooks through, rendering it tender and not tough. After the indicated time, poke the roast with a toothpick to check cooking: if the liquids that come out are clear, the meat is cooked. Turn off the heat and, without removing the lid, let the meat rest for about 10 minutes in the warmth, then slice the roll and serve it along with the stewed vegetables.
Store the veal roll with vegetables in an airtight container, placed in the refrigerator, for up to 2-3 days.
Don't worry if filling comes out of the roll during cooking: it will only enhance the flavor of the cooking vegetables! If you don't have an ovenproof pot like the one we've used, you can cover a baking dish with aluminum foil and cook everything in a fan oven for about 60 minutes at 350°F.

