name:
Asparagus and Raspadura Lasagna
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Asparagus: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Raspadura cheese: 0.8lb(350 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Thyme: 4sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(90 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 0.5oz(15 g)
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare asparagus and raspadura lasagna, first Béchamel sauce ; melt the butter and sift the flour slowly to create the roux , stirring with a whisk. Add the slightly warm milk and stir until it thickens ; add salt and season with nutmeg. At the end of the preparation, off the heat, incorporate the pecorino cheese and mix well .
Clean the asparagus, then cook them in boiling water (it should simmer gently) in the appropriate asparagus pot, leaving the tips out to steam; the asparagus should cook but remain crunchy . Drain the asparagus well: cut the tips (about 2 inches in length) and slice the stalks into rounds. Put 1 oz of butter to melt in a pan and sauté the asparagus stalks with a pinch of salt (a couple of minutes will suffice) ; this way, they will dry from any residual cooking water and, at the same time, gain flavor. Do the same thing in another pan with the asparagus tips, making sure they don't crumble .
Move on to assembling the asparagus and raspadura lasagna: place 3 tablespoons of oil and a layer of bechamel on the bottom of an 18x28 cm (7x11 inch) baking dish or pan , then lay down the first layer of egg lasagna sheets . Cover the lasagna with a layer of asparagus and a layer of bechamel .
Sprinkle with some ground pepper and lay a layer of thinly sliced raspadura and some thyme leaves . Repeat the operation, alternating the ingredients until you have 4 layers of lasagna. Finish the last layer with bechamel , then add a few thin slices of raspadura, the asparagus tips, and a sprinkle of ground pepper and thyme leaves. Bake the asparagus and raspadura lasagna in a preheated static oven at 320°F for about 30-40 minutes (if using a fan oven, 285°F for about 20-30 minutes) . Before serving the asparagus and raspadura lasagna, let them rest out of the oven for at least 10 minutes so they settle and compact better. Your asparagus and raspadura lasagna is ready to be served!
Asparagus and raspadura lasagna can be stored in an airtight container for a couple of days in the refrigerator. If the asparagus is fresh (not defrosted), the lasagna can be frozen either before or after baking in the oven.
You can replace raspadura with any cheese of your choice, keeping in mind that raspadura is similar to a young Parmesan or Grana cheese.

