name:
Cocoa roll with white chocolate cream
ingredients:
Eggs: 4- medium at room temperature
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Honey: 1 ½tsp(10 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.3cup(40 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2tbsp(15 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
White chocolate: 9.7oz(275 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(200 g)
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Egg yolks: 2.8oz(80 g)
Whole cane sugar: 3 ½tbsp(45 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste
White chocolate: to taste- chopped

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time in the refrigerator

instructions:
To make the cocoa roll with white chocolate cream, start by preparing the cocoa sponge cake. In a stand mixer fitted with a whisk, pour in the whole eggs at room temperature and the honey . Split the vanilla bean lengthwise; scrape out the seeds with a small knife and add them to the eggs along with the sugar , then start the whisk until the mixture is light and fluffy . Stop the mixer and remove the whisk.
Sift the cocoa powder into a bowl along with the flour and add the powders to the egg and sugar mixture one spoonful at a time ; mix well with the whisk until you get a smooth and homogeneous batter.
Butter and line a baking sheet with a sheet of parchment paper measuring 12x16 inches; pour the cocoa batter you made , spreading it evenly and smoothing it gently with a spatula : you should get a layer no higher than 1/4 inch. Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 8-10 minutes (or at 356°F for 5-6 minutes if using a convection oven): the baking of the sponge cake should be short because it needs to stay quite soft. Once cooked, remove it and gently detach the edges that have stuck to the pan with a knife .
Pass a damp cloth on the work surface then spread two sheets of plastic wrap slightly overlapping, 2-3 inches longer than the sponge cake dimensions ; flip the sponge cake over and let it cool: this way it won't dry out.
Meanwhile, prepare the cream: in a bowl, soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for at least 10 minutes . Chop the white chocolate with a knife , then place a saucepan with the cream and milk on the stove ;
in a separate small bowl, combine the egg yolks and brown sugar . When the milk and cream are about to boil, temper the egg and sugar mixture by pouring in a ladle of hot milk ; stir with a spatula to combine all the ingredients, then add it to the milk and cream mixture, cooking over very low heat : the cream is ready when it coats the back of a spoon;
transfer it to a bowl, passing it through a fine sieve to eliminate any lumps and check that it has reached a temperature of 181°F with a kitchen thermometer . Add the gelatin sheets, squeezing them well with your hands and stir with a spatula to dissolve it completely (this step is important for the cream to reach the right consistency).
Pour the still-hot cream over the chopped white chocolate , stirring until completely dissolved. Cover with plastic wrap in contact and let it cool in the refrigerator . When the sponge cake is cool, remove the layer of parchment paper .
Fill the sponge cake with a layer of milk chocolate cream about 3/8 inch thick, leaving about 3/8 inch from the edge . When you have finished, roll up the sponge cake using the plastic wrap, starting from the longest side in front of you . As you roll, remember to remove the excess wrap from the edges. Once this operation is complete, twist the excess wrap on the edges and holding the ends firmly, pull with your hands outward while simultaneously moving the roll away from you on the work surface, to tighten it like a candy. If bubbles form, pierce the wrap with a knife. Place in the refrigerator to set for at least 40 minutes.
Once cooled, cut off the two ends with a smooth-blade knife and place the roll on a serving plate. Dust with cocoa powder and finish by distributing the chopped milk chocolate ; finally, serve your cocoa roll with white chocolate cream, cutting it into slices.
You can store the cocoa roll with white chocolate cream in the refrigerator for up to 3-4 days. It can be frozen if you have used fresh ingredients, storing it for up to 20-25 days.
If you wish, instead of white chocolate flakes, you can sprinkle your cocoa roll with desiccated coconut: it will be an excellent combination!

