name:
Turkey rolls with potatoes, ricotta, and bacon
ingredients:
Potatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Turkey: 24- baked in slices
Emmentaler cheese: 12slices- thin (about 200 g)
Smoked pancetta: 1.75oz(50 g)
Ricotta cheese: 0.4cup(100 g)- cow's milk
Whole milk: ¾cup(180 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 ml)
Nutmeg: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Leeks: 2- leaves
Carrots: 1
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the turkey rolls with potatoes, ricotta, and bacon, cut the smoked bacon into cubes , then peel the potatoes and dice them .
Place the diced potatoes in a small pot, pour in the milk , season with nutmeg , add salt, and cook for about 15 minutes until they are soft. Let the potatoes cool, then place them in a mixer with blades, add the ricotta
the fresh marjoram leaves and a pinch of white pepper and blend everything until a smooth, creamy mixture is obtained . Transfer the potato cream to a bowl and add the bacon cubes , mix with a spoon, and set aside the filling.
Now assemble the rolls: take two slices of turkey and slightly overlap them, place a slice of Emmental on top , spread the potato and ricotta cream on top , then fold the two long edges towards the center
then fold the shorter sides as well (13-14). Peel the leek, wash the leaves, and cut 12 thin strips ,
blanch them in boiling water to make them soft and elastic, then cool them by immersing them in a bowl full of ice water to maintain the color. Do the same with the carrot, peel it and use a vegetable peeler to cut 12 thin strips, blanch them to soften
and then cool them in the bowl with ice water . Now proceed to tie the rolls: on a cutting board, place a strip of leek and a strip of carrot crossed over each other , place the roll in the center and wrap the carrot, tying a knot at the top, do the same with the leek
closing the roll “like a package” . With these quantities, you will obtain 12 rolls; place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper, brush the surface with beaten egg , and bake them for 10 minutes in a preheated static oven at 350°F (or in a convection oven at 320°F for 6-7 minutes). Remove the turkey rolls with potatoes, ricotta, and bacon from the oven and let them cool slightly before serving them.
The turkey rolls with potatoes, ricotta, and bacon can be stored in the fridge for up to 1-2 days. You can freeze them if you have used fresh ingredients.
As an alternative to ricotta, you can use goat cheese, and if you want to enrich the filling, add a zucchini cream.

