name:
Chicken rolls with mushrooms and mustard sauce
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.75lbs(800 g)- 8 slices
Champignon mushrooms: 2 ½cups(250 g)
Sweet mustard: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Chicken broth: 0.4cup(100 ml)
White wine: 1.7oz(50 ml)
Garlic: 1clove
Shallot: 1
Parsley: 3sprigs
Thyme: 3sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make chicken rolls with mushrooms and mustard sauce, start by cleaning the champignon mushrooms: with a small knife, remove the earthy part on the stem , scraping it gently until all traces of dirt are removed, then gently wipe the surface with a damp cotton cloth , taking care not to damage the mushrooms. Slice the mushrooms and set them aside.
Wash and chop the fresh parsley , heat a drizzle of oil in a pan and flavor it with a garlic clove, add the sliced mushrooms and sauté them for 4-5 minutes, season with salt and pepper .
then flavor with the chopped parsley , stir, and remove the garlic clove with kitchen tongs , let the mushrooms cool. Prepare the meat, place the chicken slices between two sheets of parchment paper (to avoid tearing the meat) and pound them with a meat tenderizer .
Chop the thyme and place it in a small bowl, also add salt and mix to combine, distribute the herb mixture on the chicken slices , then stuff with a spoonful of mushrooms in the center of the slices, leaving the edge free (set aside the leftover mushrooms).
Fold the long sides of the slices inward to prevent the filling from escaping and then roll them up , secure the rolls with toothpicks so they won't open during cooking.
Set the rolls aside, peel and chop the shallot , heat a drizzle of olive oil in a pan and sauté the shallot for at least 5 minutes on low heat, place the chicken and mushroom rolls with mustard sauce in the pan .
and brown on both sides for a couple of minutes, then deglaze with white wine and add the Chicken broth and cook for 10 minutes with the lid on for another 10 minutes .
then incorporate the mustard and cook for another 3-4 minutes, at the end of cooking add the leftover mushrooms and sauté everything together for a few moments and serve the chicken rolls with mushrooms and mustard sauce hot .
Store the chicken rolls with mushrooms and mustard sauce in the refrigerator for a couple of days at most in an airtight container. You can freeze them if you used fresh ingredients that haven't been previously frozen.
When mushrooms are no longer in season, stuff your rolls with vegetables like peas, spinach, or with ham and cheese if you want to achieve the 'melting heart' effect!

