name:
Large ravioli with molten yolk, ricotta, and spinach
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.4cup(100 g)
Spinach: 3 ½cups(100 g)- boiled
Egg yolks: 4
Egg whites: 1- for brushing
Pecorino cheese: 0.75oz(20 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Onions: 1- small
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sage: 1bunch
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + half an hour of resting time for the fresh pasta

instructions:
To prepare the large ravioli with molten yolk, ricotta, and spinach, start with the fresh pasta (you can consult the complete procedure in the Cooking School section: Homemade pasta (sheets and shapes) , following the doses of this recipe). In a bowl, sift the flour , add the eggs, and start kneading in the bowl . Once the eggs are absorbed, take the dough
and knead it for a few minutes on a lightly floured work surface . Then cover it with plastic wrap and let it rest for at least 30 minutes in a cool place . In the meantime, focus on the filling: peel and finely chop an onion ;
let it sauté in a pan with a drizzle of oil and 1 tbsp of butter . Once wilted, add the previously washed spinach with a little water and let them cook covered for a few minutes. By the end of cooking, they should be wilted , let them dry, then turn off the heat.
In a bowl, add the ricotta, grated cheeses , and a grating of nutmeg . Then mix everything with a spatula .
To the cheese filling, add the cooked and chopped spinach , adjust the salt and pepper, and mix everything thoroughly (you can also use a blender to make the filling by blending all the ingredients together). Now take the fresh pasta, roll it into a thin sheet a few millimeters thick using a long rolling pin: the dough will be quite elastic, so you can hold one end with your hand and slide the rolling pin over the pasta. Roll it out well in every direction until you create a thin sheet . Cut 8 circles with a cookie cutter (or alternatively, following the outline of a small bowl) each with a diameter of 7 inches .
Once you have the pasta circles, transfer the spinach and ricotta mixture into a pastry bag and for each of the 4 circles, create two spirals of mixture . In the center of each spiral, place a yolk , keeping the egg white aside to brush the edges of the 4 filled discs .
On each filled disc, place another one and gently press the edges to seal them . Then decorate with the tines of a fork gently all around the edges . Place the large ravioli on a floured cloth and meanwhile bring a large pot of water to boil. In the meantime, melt the butter in a pan and add the sage leaves .
When the water starts to simmer, gently immerse the large ravioli, two at a time ; let them cook for just a couple of minutes, then drain them and sauté them in the pan with butter and sage . Once flavored, place one large ravioli on each serving plate and decorate it with a sage leaf ; you can also sprinkle with Grana Padano before serving it hot to your guests!
We recommend consuming the large ravioli with molten yolk, ricotta, and spinach as soon as it is ready. Freezing is not recommended.
Want to vary the filling? How about trying a Sardinian version with ricotta flavored with untreated lemon zest?
However you decide to make your molten large ravioli, remember to work the fresh pasta away from drafts because it tends to dry out very easily!

