name:
Green gnocchetti
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Spinach: 13.3cups(400 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the green gnocchetti, start by cooking the potatoes. Choose them all the same size and place them in a pot with cold water . Cook from boiling for 30-40 minutes. In the meantime, cook the spinach. Immerse them in boiling, slightly salted water and cook for about 5 minutes until wilted. Transfer them to a colander placed over a bowl .
Squeeze them well and transfer them to a cutting board ; then chop them finely with a knife .
Transfer them to a bowl and set aside . At this point, as soon as the potatoes are cooked , drain them and let them cool slightly. Pour the all-purpose flour onto a work surface .
Press the potatoes on top and add the spinach . Now knead quickly with your hands .
You'll need to obtain a homogeneous dough . Take a portion using a knife or a scraper and with your hands form a cylinder on a work surface ; it should be about 3/4 inch thick.
Using semolina flour, flour the dough cylinder well , then using the scraper (or a knife) make pieces about 1/2 inch wide . If needed, add a bit more semolina to prevent them from sticking.
Now using a gnocchi board or the tines of a fork, rid the gnocchi . Always add a bit of semolina to prevent them from sticking and place them on a tray covered with a cloth, lightly floured with semolina . The green gnocchetti are ready , you just need to cook them in boiling water until they float and then dress them as you prefer!
Spinach gnocchetti can be prepared 2-3 hours in advance. Keep them on the tray with the floured cloth and cover them with another cloth. If it's not too warm, store them at room temperature.
Alternatively, you can freeze them, first on a tray and then transfer them to a food bag. We recommend cooking the gnocchi without defrosting them first.
If you prefer a more uniform color, you can blend the spinach, always after squeezing them well.
Do not overwork the dough, or it will tend to absorb more flour, and the gnocchetti will turn out hard.
You can flavor the dough with some nutmeg.

