name:
Strawberry tiramisu with limoncello cream
ingredients:
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Powdered sugar: ¼cup(30 g)
Limoncello: 1oz(30 g)
Strawberries: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Lemons: 1- (zest and juice)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Ladyfingers: 10
Water: 5tbsp(75 ml)
Sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Limoncello: 6spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the strawberry tiramisu with limoncello cream, start with the mascarpone cream. In a stand mixer (or in a large bowl using an electric beater) pour the egg yolks and add the powdered sugar ; then start the beaters. Then add the limoncello to the yolk and sugar mixture and continue to beat the ingredients. Add the mascarpone to the mixture little by little .
Once the cream is soft and frothy, transfer it to a piping bag and put it in the refrigerator while you continue with the preparation. Wash the strawberries, keep 4 aside for decoration, while removing the green leaves from the others . Cut the strawberries into pieces .
Collect them in a small bowl, pour the grated zest of an untreated lemon , the sugar, and the lemon juice . Leave the strawberries to marinate. Meanwhile, prepare the syrup: in a saucepan pour the water, then the limoncello, and then add the sugar .
Pour in the lemon juice and the grated lemon zest . Mix the ingredients and bring to a boil.
Let the syrup cool and transfer it to a small bowl. Now you can start assembling your tiramisu: take the ladyfingers, divide them in half before quickly dipping them in the now cold syrup ; then transfer them into the 6.5 fl oz glasses (if you don't have them, you can use a single rectangular or round mold of about 2 qt). Place two halves of soaked ladyfinger on the bottom, cover them with a layer of cream using the piping bag .
Then cover with a layer of strawberries and make them adhere well to the sides of the glasses for a better visual effect. Cover again with the cream , then start again with half a ladyfinger ,
some cream and a layer of strawberries. Finish with the cream up to the edge of the glass . Proceed in the same way for the other glasses. Complete by decorating each tiramisu with a strawberry cut in half . Keep your strawberry tiramisu with limoncello cream in the refrigerator until it's time to serve them !
The strawberry tiramisu with limoncello cream can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. It can be frozen on the day it is prepared, well covered with plastic wrap. Before consuming, it should be thawed in the refrigerator at least 4 hours before serving.
You can garnish the strawberry and limoncello tiramisu with some finely julienned lemon zest, fresh or caramelized in a pan with some sugar. Alternatively, you can garnish with a few fresh mint leaves.

