name:
Baked Peppers with Capers
ingredients:
Bell peppers: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (about 2)
Yellow peppers: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (about 2)
Capers in vinegar: - a handful
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Breadcrumbs: - a handful
Garlic: 2cloves
Basil: - a few leaves
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare baked peppers with capers, start by cleaning the red and yellow peppers: wash them under running water, dry them, and cut them in half lengthwise, remove the internal seeds and the stem with a sharp knife. Cut each half of the peppers into strips, cutting transversely to the long part. Take an ovenproof dish (you can use either glass or ceramic ones) and place the sliced yellow and red peppers inside.
Salt the peppers and prepare the dressing: in a small bowl, pour the oil and incorporate the minced garlic (you can use a garlic press or mince the garlic with a knife). Pour the garlic-flavored oil emulsion into the baking dish and mix so that the peppers are well seasoned.
Bake the peppers with capers at 350°F for about 30 minutes in a preheated static oven. Meanwhile, drain the capers from their water , and once cooking is finished, remove the baked peppers and add the capers only now so that they retain their aroma. Put the dish back in the oven, still at 350°F, for another 5 minutes, remove it
sprinkle the surface with breadcrumbs , add the fresh basil torn with your hands and mix well. Put it back in the oven at the same temperature and let it gratinate until a crust forms on the peppers. Remove the baked peppers with capers from the oven and wait a few minutes for it to cool slightly before serving.
You can store the baked peppers with capers in the refrigerator, closed in an airtight container for a few days; when serving, it will be enough to pass them in the oven for a few minutes, if necessary, add a bit of olive oil before reheating. It is possible to freeze the already cooked baked peppers with capers and defrost them directly in the oven, adding a drizzle of oil and a tablespoon of breadcrumbs.
To make the baked peppers with capers even more flavorful, try adding black or green olives; you can use those in brine or, for a stronger taste, use those baked in the oven.

