name:
Zelten from Trentino
ingredients:
Dried figs: 1.1lbs(500 g)- soft
Malaga type raising: 2.5oz(70 g)
Pine nuts: 0.3cup(40 g)
Sultan grapes: 1.4oz(40 g)
Peeled almonds: ⅓cup(40 g)
Walnuts: 0.3cup(40 g)
Hazelnuts: 0.3cup(40 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: 2.8oz(80 g)
Baking powder: 5.6tsp(16 g)- (1 packet)
Eggs: 3
Water: 1glass
Rum: 2small glasses

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 10
Cost: High

instructions:
Start the preparation of the zelten by preparing the dried fruit: cut the figs into strips , halve the Malaga grapes , and coarsely chop some of the walnuts .
Put the chopped fruit in a bowl and add the raisins, some pine nuts, hazelnuts, and the rum . Let it macerate for about an hour. Meanwhile, separate the egg yolks from the egg whites, and beat the yolks with half of the sugar until they become light and fluffy and melt the butter in a saucepan .
Then add the melted butter to the eggs, and mix well . Then add the dried fruit to the mixture, stirring continuously .
Continue in this way and then add 200 ml (7 fl oz) of warm water or milk as you prefer . Mix well and start adding the sifted flour and baking powder .
Separately, beat the egg whites with the other half of the sugar until stiff and fold them into the batter . Take a rectangular baking pan (8x10 inches), butter and flour it, pour the mixture into it, and spread it well using a spatula . Before baking, decorate the zelten with almonds, pine nuts, walnuts, and hazelnuts. Usually, to make the zelten more beautiful, the edge is covered with almonds, and flower-like decorations are made with walnut halves or pine nuts. If you like, you can also add candied fruit. Once you have finished decorating, brush the surface of the zelten with the egg yolk. Bake for 90 minutes at 320°F. If during baking you notice that the surface of the zelten becomes too dark, cover it with a sheet of aluminum foil.
Zelten can be stored for several days. The best way to keep its flavor intact is to wrap it in plastic wrap.

