name:
Christmas Star
ingredients:
Eggs: 6
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Potato starch: 7 ½tbsp(60 g)
Egg yolks: 6
Orange peel: 1
Powdered sugar: 1.67cups(200 g)
Water: to taste- warm
Food coloring: to taste- red
Eggs: - 2 egg whites
Sugar: - powdered 120 gr
Orange juice: 2- organic
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low

instructions:
Prepare the sponge cake with the indicated quantities , following the recipe found by clicking Sponge cake . Pour the mixture into a star-shaped mold previously buttered and floured and bake for about 40 minutes at 356°F. In the meantime, prepare a custard with the indicated quantities, following the preparation indicated Pastry cream , to which you will add grated orange zest .
Once the cream is ready , transfer it to a wide and shallow container, then let it cool by covering it with cling film placed in contact with the cream itself. Prepare the syrup by dissolving the sugar in water and then adding the filtered orange juice. When the sponge cake is cooked, cut it in half .
Brush the inside of the two sponge cake halves with the prepared syrup and, with the help of a spatula, spread the orange cream on the base of the cake , then cover it with the other half . With a smooth-bladed knife, level the cream well on the sides of the cake, so that the side walls are smooth.
At this point, prepare the glaze for coating the cake. Put the powdered sugar in a bowl and add enough hot water to make the mixture smooth but thick . Add red food coloring, which can be in powder or liquid form (if it's powder, dissolve it in a small amount of hot water) and mix well to achieve a uniform color .
Before proceeding with the coating, place a tray or baking sheet under the cake so that the excess glaze falls inside, preventing the work surface from getting dirty and can be easily recovered . Spread the glaze well, even on the sides of the cake, then let it dry , then transfer it to a serving plate and proceed with the decoration, using the mixture obtained by combining two whipped egg whites with powdered sugar. The mixture should be very thick , so if necessary, add a few more teaspoons of powdered sugar. Using a piping bag with a star tip, decorate the cake as shown in the picture or as you prefer, add some silver sprinkles and ... happy holidays!
To make the cake tastier and more fragrant, you can add a small glass of liqueur like Cointreau or Grand Marnier to the syrup.

