name:
Smoked shank with potatoes and sauerkraut
ingredients:
Pork knuckle: 2.6lbs(1.2 kg)- smoked
Red wine: 4.1tbsp(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4 ½tbsp(60 g)
Celery: 2oz(50 g)
Carrots: 1.8oz(50 g)
Onions: 0.3cup(50 g)
Juniper berries: 6
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Rosemary: 1sprig
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sauerkraut: 14.1oz(400 g)- natural
Speck: 3.5oz(100 g)
Onions: 1.8oz(50 g)
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the smoked shank with potatoes and sauerkraut, start by making the chopped base for sautéing: peel the carrot and onion, then remove the outer strings from the celery. Finely chop everything and set aside. At this point, pour the oil into a pot, preferably cast iron, and add the smoked shank . Brown it on all sides over high heat .
Once well-browned, remove it from the pot and keep it warm . Pour the previously prepared chopped mixture into the cooking oil of the shank and let it sauté over moderate heat. Meanwhile, chop the juniper berries with a knife (alternatively, you can use a mortar to crush them).
And add them to the rest of the sauté . Also add the rosemary sprig , the shank, and the bay leaves .
Wait a few minutes, frequently turning the shank, and deglaze with red wine . Once it has completely evaporated, add water , ensuring that it reaches about halfway up the height of the shank. At this point, cover with a lid and let it cook for about 1 hour or until the meat is tender, then add salt to taste.
In the meantime, prepare the potatoes: wash them under running water, and without peeling them, cut them into cubes of about 1 inch . Transfer the potatoes to a baking tray lined with parchment paper and season with salt, pepper, and oil. Add fresh rosemary and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 40 minutes, turning the potatoes from time to time.
While the potatoes are cooking, prepare the sauerkraut. To flavor them, cut the speck into chunks and finely chop the onion . Pour the oil into a pot, add the butter , and let it melt over moderate heat.
At this point, add the onion, let it wilt, then add the speck . Meanwhile, drain the sauerkraut from the cooking liquid, add them to the pan , and add a pinch of salt. Cook over high heat for 15-20 minutes, until tender , adding a ladle of hot water as needed.
By now, the shank and potatoes will also be ready. Serve them together and enjoy your smoked shank with potatoes and sauerkraut while still warm!
The smoked shank with potatoes and sauerkraut can be stored for up to 2 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
The smoked shank is a pre-cooked shank available at the butcher's. If you can't find it, you can use a regular shank and extend the cooking time by 1 hour.
With the cooking juices from the shank, you can make a fantastic sauce: simply strain it and add a roux made with butter and flour to thicken it.

