name:
Mascarpone, Speck, and Walnut Pizza
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 8cups(1 kg)
Water: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Fine salt: 3 ½tsp(20 g)
Speck: 5.25oz(150 g)- sliced
Mascarpone cheese: 0.6cup(150 g)- creamy
Walnut kernels: 1.5oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tsp(10 g)
Oregano: 2tsp(10 g)
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 1.3lbs(600 g)- or fiordilatte
Tomato purée: 2.9cups(700 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the dough rising time (2 hours)

instructions:
To prepare the pizza dough, start by pouring the flour into the stand mixer's bowl . Add the yeast and 3.5 oz of water, then start the mixer with the hook attachment at a medium-low speed .
Continue adding the water slowly, making sure the previous amount is well absorbed by the flour . Once about 3/4 of the water is added, add the salt and continue kneading. Add the remaining water slowly and let it work until you get a smooth and homogeneous mixture .
At this point, gradually add the oil (as you did with the water) . When the oil is completely absorbed, remove the dough from the mixer and shape it with your hands into a ball . Place it in a large, lightly greased bowl .
Cover with plastic wrap or a clean cloth and let it rise in the oven with the light on . Wait until the dough has at least doubled in size (1.5 hours), preferably tripled (2.5/3 hours), and proceed to shape the pizzas . Once the dough has risen, transfer it to the work surface and divide it into 4 equal parts .
Form each piece into a ball . Cover with a clean cloth and let rest for 30 minutes . Lightly oil 4 pizza pans of 12 inches in diameter. Place a dough ball in the center of the pan .
and start pressing from the center towards the edges, stretching the sides slightly if necessary . If the dough is too elastic and tends to return to its original shape, set aside the pizza you are stretching and proceed to stretch another, allowing the previous one to rest. Try to stretch the dough across the entire surface of the pan . Separately, in a large bowl, pour the tomato sauce and season it with salt, oil, and oregano .
Pour a generous ladle of tomato sauce onto the pizza base and spread it in a circular motion, covering almost the entire area, leaving only an edge of about 0.5 inches . Coarsely chop the mozzarella and place it on the pizza .
Now add the mascarpone with a teaspoon . Let the filled pizza rest for about ten minutes and bake at 482°F for 12/15 minutes in a static oven (otherwise, about ten minutes at 446°F in a fan oven will be enough). Meanwhile, lightly chop the walnuts with a knife .
Once the pizza is out of the oven, add the freshly chopped walnuts and the slices of speck . Serve the mascarpone, speck, and walnut pizza piping hot!
The mascarpone, speck, and walnut pizza can be partially baked and then frozen. To use it, let it thaw at room temperature and finish baking in the oven before serving!
If you prefer, you can also prepare the mascarpone, speck, and walnut pizza without tomato sauce. In this case, add more mozzarella and mascarpone or alternatively other cheeses like taleggio or gorgonzola, according to your taste.

