name:
Shrimp Crepe
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(80 g)
Eggs: 1
Whole milk: ¾cup(170 ml)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Shrimps: 1.1lbs(500 g)- shelled
Mascarpone cheese: 1.3cups(300 g)
Brandy: 1.2oz(35 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Chives: 2spoonfuls- chopped
Paprika: 0.9tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the shrimp crepes, start with making the Sweet and savory crepes (Basic recipe) . Take the flour and pour it into a bowl , diluting it with milk . In a small bowl, break the eggs, add a pinch of salt, and combine them with the flour .
Mix the ingredients with a hand whisk until a homogeneous mixture is obtained. Then add the melted butter while continuing to stir. Cover the bowl with transparent food film and let it rest in the refrigerator for half an hour . Then take the dough again and heat a round non-stick pan. Grease it with a little butter and pour a ladle of the dough , distributing it evenly over the entire surface with the appropriate wooden crepe tool or tilting the pan and thus distributing the dough over its entire surface. When the dough cooks on one side and slightly detaches from the pan, turn the crepes with a spatula and cook the crepe on the other side. Then place the crepe on a plate. Repeat the operation until you get 4 crepes.
Proceed now with the preparation of the filling. In a non-stick bottomed pan, pour the oil in a thin stream and sauté the coarsely chopped garlic . When browned, remove it. While the garlic is browning, prepare the shrimp and wash them under plenty of water. Then proceed to remove their intestines (for cleaning shrimp, consult the cooking school: How to clean shrimp ) . Now add the shrimp to the pan .
Mix the shrimp while they cook over a gentle heat, using a spatula . Then drizzle with the brandy and let it evaporate for a few minutes. Afterwards, drain the shrimp using a fine mesh strainer .
In another non-stick pot, heat the mascarpone and mix it with a spatula to melt it evenly . Then add the shrimp and mix them well with the mascarpone. At this point, flavor with the paprika .
Continue to mix the ingredients with a spatula for 3 minutes over medium heat until obtaining a fairly thick and homogeneous shrimp cream; at the end of cooking, adjust with salt . Then take a crepe and place a spoonful of the mixture in the center . Cut small pieces of chives over the cream using scissors .
Now fold the crepe in half and then into quarters . Your crepes with shrimp cream are now ready to be served .
It is recommended to consume the shrimp crepes as soon as they are cooked.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you have leftover crepe batter, you can store it in the refrigerator with plastic wrap for up to 12 hours. If you have leftover cooked crepes, stack them on top of each other and store them covered in the fridge for a couple of days.

To garnish these shrimp crepes, use a few spoonfuls of shrimp cream and decorate with some sprigs of chives: the final chic touch to the dish that will leave everyone speechless!
Don't have brandy? No problem: you can substitute it with cognac, marsala, or classic white wine!

