name:
Hearts of burrata with scallop cream
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Eggs: 2- large
Burrata cheese: 1.1cups(250 g)
Scallops: 12
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 ml)
Peperoncino: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 2
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the hearts of burrata with scallop cream, first take care of the fresh pasta, to make it best follow our Egg pasta recipe. Sift the flour and arrange it in a mound on the work surface or in a large bowl, then make a well in the center and place the beaten eggs . Start mixing with a fork , then knead with your hands .
Transfer the dough to a surface and work it with your hands from the outside in , incorporating all the flour, and continue to knead until it is smooth and compact . Wrap the dough obtained in plastic wrap and let it rest for about 1 hour in a cool, dry place.
After the resting time, take the dough, divide it into small loaves and roll each loaf out on a floured board (or you can roll it out with a pasta machine), creating rectangles about 6 x 16 inches and a thickness of about 0.02 inches . Cut the burrata into small pieces
and drain it to remove excess liquid . Once you have prepared the sheets, lay them out on the board, place a heart-shaped pastry cutter (8x8 cm in size) on the sheet without cutting it; by pressing lightly, you will leave the tool's marks on the pasta and then be able to position the burrata filling in the center of the various shapes . Place a tablespoon of burrata in the center of each shape ,
brush the sheet around the filling with water or egg white: this way the edges will stay well sealed once overlapped . When you have placed all the mounds of filling, cover them with a sheet of the same size as the one below ; before sealing the edges of the ravioli, press all around the filling to remove the air .
Pressing the sheets with the pastry cutter, make the burrata hearts that you will lay on a clean and lightly floured cloth . Now prepare the scallop cream: remove the scallops from the shell and remove the black part and the muscle, and collect the flesh and coral in a bowl.
Sauté in a pan the oil, garlic , and minced chili pepper the minced thyme . When the garlic is golden, add the scallops and corals to the pan.
Pour the white wine over the scallops and let it evaporate . When the scallops are cooked (it will take a few minutes), pour them along with the cooking liquid into a blender .
Blend the scallops until you obtain a smooth and dense cream , which you will pour into the pan where you sautéed the scallops . Bring water to a boil in a pot, salt it, and cook the fresh pasta hearts for a few minutes ,
add a ladle of cooking water to the scallop sauce , then drain the burrata hearts into the pan and sauté them for a few moments to season them. Your hearts of burrata with scallop cream are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the hearts of burrata with scallop cream immediately; if there are leftovers, store them in the refrigerator for up to one day. It is possible to freeze the raw hearts: place them on a tray and then, once frozen, transfer them to suitable food bags. This way, you will avoid the hearts sticking to each other.

