name:
Smoked Chicken Wings with Tabouleh
ingredients:
Chicken wings: 8- whole
Jack Daniel's Barbecue Sauce: 1- cup
Extra virgin olive oil: - 1/2 cup
Lemon juice: - 1/2 cup
Water: - cold 1/2 cup
Paprika: - 1/2 cup
Tabasco®: - 1/4 cup
Rosemary: 2spoonfuls- chopped
Garlic: 2cloves
Sugar: 1spoonful
Fine salt: 2spoonfuls- level
Black pepper: 1spoonful
Bulgur: 2tazze
Fresh scallion: - 1/2 cup thinly sliced
Tomatoes: 1tazza- diced
Parsley: 2tazze- minced
Lemon juice: - 1/4 of a cup
Extra virgin olive oil: - 1/4 of a cup
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour of marination

instructions:
Start by cutting the chicken wings along the bone joints , removing the thin part. Place all the wings in a container . Gradually add the marinade ingredients: rosemary, minced garlic ,
oil , lemon juice , ground pepper , paprika , Tabasco sauce . Mix vigorously , cover with plastic wrap, and let marinate in the fridge for about an hour.
Meanwhile, cook the bulgur following the package instructions (some are precooked and do not require long cooking times).
In a rather large bowl, combine the diced tomato, parsley, and scallion ; add the cooled bulgur ,
oil , lemon , then mix all the ingredients, season with salt, and place in the fridge.
Prepare the grill setup for indirect cooking as shown in these steps: (16-17-18)
and in these: (19-20-21)
Finish setting up (22-23) before adding the chips previously soaked for about 30 minutes, and when smoke production starts ,
place the wings, skin-side up, on the grate , removing the marinade residues. The marinade should be discarded and cannot be used to baste the chicken during cooking. Close the barbecue lid, stabilize the temperature at 340°F, and let cook for about 20 minutes without opening the lid. Halfway through, turn the wings , close the lid again, and finish cooking for another 20 minutes. Once cooked, pour into a container and add the spicy barbecue sauce (for example, Jack Daniel's BBQ sauce and a good dose of Tabasco) and toss to coat the wings well. Serve the hot wings on a bed of tabouleh with the barbecue sauce on the side . The freshness of the salad will perfectly balance the spicy, spicy, and smoky taste of the chicken wings.
You can also serve smoked chicken wings with couscous!

