name:
Chicken and Shrimp Curry with Basmati Rice
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Shrimps: 12.4oz(350 g)- tails
Curry: 2spoonfuls
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Onions: 1
Celery: 2
Carrots: 2
Greek yogurt: 0.8cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Water: to taste- hot
Basmati rice: 1 ¼cup(240 g)
Onions: - 1/2
Cloves: 8
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Water: 2 ½cups(600 g)- hot

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the chicken and shrimp curry with basmati rice, take the chicken breast and cut it into cubes, about 1 inch . Shell the shrimp tails , if you prefer, you can also remove the intestine with a toothpick, pulling it out from the back. Store the shrimp tails in the refrigerator until ready to use. Next, peel the onion and finely chop it ;
peel the carrot, chop it as well , and finally chop the celery, removing the outer strings . Pour the oil into a pan along with the chopped mix for the sauté (onion, carrot, and celery) .
Let it wilt over low heat, then add the chicken breast , brown it, stirring often , and add the curry .
Add a ladle of hot water and let it cook for about 10 minutes. In the meantime, start cooking the basmati rice. Insert the cloves into the sides of a half onion , this way they won't scatter during cooking and will be easy to remove. Place the onion in a pan with the oil. Let it sauté for a couple of minutes, then add the basmati rice .
Add hot water, salted to taste , and cook the rice without stirring too much, just enough to prevent it from sticking to the bottom of the pan. Continue cooking the rice by adding more hot water as needed . Meanwhile, as your rice cooks, the chicken will become tender .
Add the shrimp and cook for about 2 minutes , stirring occasionally. Then add the Greek yogurt
and stir until incorporated with the other ingredients . Adjust the salt and turn off the heat. Meanwhile, the rice will also be cooked . All you have to do is serve the chicken and shrimp curry with basmati rice while still hot !
Store the chicken and shrimp curry with rice for up to 1 day in the refrigerator, sealed in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
Curry is a powder made from a mixture of spices that can be more or less spicy depending on the type chosen. In stores, you can find mildly spicy curry, medium spicy, and finally very spicy: choose according to your taste. If you want to make the dish more flavorful, replace the amount of water with vegetable broth!

