name:
Crescentine (or tigelle) with cunza
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Type 0 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Water: 5.3oz(150 g)
Lard: 1.75oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ⅓tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: 3 ½tsp(20 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.4oz(10 g)
Lard: 7.1oz(200 g)
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Garlic: 2cloves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 22 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the dough rising time (3 h + 20 min.)

instructions:
To prepare the crescentine (or tigelle), place the all-purpose flour and the cake flour in the bowl of a stand mixer , then add the fresh yeast .
Add the milk and the lard , then turn on the stand mixer equipped with a dough hook at low speed .
Once the first ingredients are incorporated, slightly increase the speed of the mixer and gradually add the water . At this point, also add the salt and continue to pour in the water slowly , ensuring it is well incorporated into the dough.
After about 10 minutes, the dough will be uniform, so you can also pour in the oil slowly . Let the mixer work for another 5 minutes. If it still seems sticky, stop the machine and let the dough rest covered for 5 minutes. When the dough is smooth and elastic , let it rise at room temperature for 3 hours or until it doubles in size, in a bowl covered with plastic wrap .
After the rising time, lightly flour both the work surface and the dough and start rolling it out with a rolling pin . If it springs back a lot during rolling, wait a few minutes to allow the dough to relax.
Once you achieve a thickness of about 1/5 inch , cut out circles using a 3.5-inch diameter cutter . Place the tigelle on a tray and let them rest for 20 minutes on parchment paper covered with plastic wrap. The dough scraps can be briefly re-kneaded to make more tigelle .
You're ready for cooking: heat your tigelliera, place the tigelle in the compartments, and cook for 5 minutes on each side . Once they are golden and have the typical floral design , transfer them to a tray lined with a towel and cover them with it: this way they will remain soft inside and crispy outside.
To prepare the cunza, cut the lard with a knife trying to achieve a homogeneous consistency . Finely chop the rosemary needles as well
Finally, do the same with the garlic . Mix the ingredients and continue chopping with the flat side of the knife without rushing, it will take about ten minutes to obtain a smooth and silky cunza .
With a bread knife, cut a hot tigella in half , fill with cunza as desired , and serve while still hot. The tigelle are excellent on their own, but the crescentine with cunza will be a hit !
It is recommended to consume the crescentine (or tigelle) immediately while hot. They can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for one day at most.
You can freeze the crescentine after they have cooled; when ready to serve, heat them in a preheated static oven at 300°F for 10-15 minutes (or in a fan oven at 266°F for 8-10 minutes) and then fill.
If you're not comfortable with using a knife, you can prepare the cunza with a food processor: to avoid overheating the blades, first chop the rosemary with the garlic and then the lard by itself, which will be a bit harder to chop.

