name:
Pomegranate Jelly
ingredients:
Pomegranate: 5- (each 200-250 g)
Sugar: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Fruttapec 1:1: 1bag
Lemons: 1- juice and zest

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare pomegranate jelly, start by sanitizing the jars and lids, as indicated in the guidelines from the Ministry of Health at the end of the recipe. Then take a large container and peel the five pomegranates, ensuring to remove all yellow parts and peels as they are bitter . Pass the seeds through a food mill . From the five pomegranates, you should obtain about 30 oz of juice .
Filter the juice and put it in a saucepan . Add the juice of half a lemon, the sugar, the packet of Fruitpect, and the whole lemon peel to the pomegranate juice, using a peeler to get only the yellow part . Boil for 30 minutes. Remove the lemon peel, then pour the obtained juice into the previously sanitized jars, seal them, and place them upside down on a surface . The heat from the jam will create a vacuum, allowing the product to be stored for a long time. Once the jars have cooled, check if the vacuum has been created correctly: you can press the center of the lid, and if you do not hear the classic "click-clack," the vacuum has been achieved. Your pomegranate jelly is ready to be enjoyed!
Pomegranate jelly can be stored for about 3 months, provided the vacuum is achieved correctly and the jars are kept in a cool, dry place away from light and heat sources. It is recommended to wait at least 2-3 weeks before consuming the jam. Once each jar is opened, store in the refrigerator and consume within 3-4 days maximum.
Pomegranate jelly can be used in many ways, such as to decorate cakes or garnish cookies. It can be paired with soft cheeses like gorgonzola and mascarpone. To open the pomegranate, make an incision with a knife along the rind around the fruit, then press with your thumbs to split it in half.
The homemade preparation of preserves and jams can pose health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of the food, which industrial procedures can guarantee to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to strictly follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it must always be remembered that the same food safety as professionally produced preserves and jams can never be achieved. For proper preparation of homemade preserves, refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

