name:
Vegetable Crudités
ingredients:
Celery: 2
Carrots: 2
Fennel: 1
Yellow peppers: - 1/2
Red peppers: - 1/2
Radicchio: 1- small radicchio
Radishes: 12
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Lemon juice: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Choose two tender celery stalks (the inner ones from the bunch of celery), remove the leaves at the ends, and eliminate any strings by cutting into the base of each rib and pulling towards the opposite end. Cut the stalks into two parts of equal length and then make sticks by cutting the pieces obtained lengthwise .
Take the fennel, remove the ends with the leaves and then also the opposite end ; remove the outer fleshy leaves that are more tough and then cut the fennel into four equal parts which you will further reduce in half .
Take the half bell peppers, remove the filaments and the white internal parts, trim the ends to make them regular, then cut the peppers into strips. Remove the radish leaves by cutting them at the base and wash them under running water.
Peel the carrots, trim them , and cut them into parallel slices which you will then divide into sticks . Remove the damaged outer leaves of the radicchio and keep the fresh and intact ones by detaching them from the base . Divide the cut vegetables into small cups and prepare 4 bowls containing high-quality extra virgin olive oil. Place additional seasonings in the center of the table to enrich the dip and let each diner prepare it according to their taste. To prepare the dip, simply mix together oil, lemon, salt, and pepper in a bowl and beat vigorously with a fork to emulsify everything. Serve your vegetable sticks with the dip.
The vegetable dip should be made using very fresh and tender vegetables; the dressing can also be enhanced according to personal taste with lemon, vinegar, pepper, mustard, herbs (thyme, basil, chives, parsley, etc...), chili peppers, yogurt, etc... What other vegetables can be used for the dip? Depending on the season, artichoke hearts, salad tomatoes, Belgian endive leaves, cucumbers, avocados, fresh spring onions, or red Tropea onions, small and tender lettuce leaves (or other salad greens), etc...

