name:
Cold Apricot Cake
ingredients:
Cookies: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- melted
Greek yogurt: 2cups(500 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(12 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(60 g)
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Apricots: 1 ½cup(300 g)- firm and sweet
Apricot jam: 8tsp(40 g)- for brushing

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + 2 hours and 30 minutes of chilling in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the cold apricot cake, start with the base of the cake. Melt the butter and let it cool. Blend the dry biscuits in a mixer until finely crumbled . Then, transfer them to a bowl where you'll add the butter little by little,
while mixing the ingredients with a spoon to combine them and obtain a sandy mixture . Then take a 9.5-inch springform pan, butter it, and line it with parchment paper. Pour the mixture of biscuits and butter into it and level it to evenly cover the entire base, helping yourself with the back of a spoon . Refrigerate to firm up for at least 30 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the cream. Soak the gelatin sheets in a bowl of cold water . Let them soften for at least 10 minutes. Then take a saucepan where you'll pour the milk . Bring it to just below boiling and turn off the heat. Then take the soaked gelatin, drain it, squeeze it well, and add it to the milk .
Dissolve the gelatin completely, helping with a hand whisk . Let it cool slightly and, in the meantime, proceed with the preparation of the yogurt and mascarpone cream. In a large bowl, combine the yogurt and mascarpone . Mix the ingredients with the whisk and gradually incorporate the powdered sugar .
Grate the zest of an untreated lemon and add the now-cooled milk and gelatin mixture . Mix to combine the ingredients evenly .
Then, remove the mold from the refrigerator and pour in the yogurt and mascarpone cream . Level it with a spatula and refrigerate to set for at least 4 hours .
Now, focus on the decoration. Rinse the apricots, dry them, and cut them in half . Remove the pit and cut each half into thin slices .
After 2 hours, take the cake out of the fridge, checking that the cream has set, and unmold it. Gently remove the ring of the springform pan and peel off the parchment paper from the edges of the cake . To remove the parchment from the bottom, use two flat and long spatulas to slide between the bottom and the paper itself and transfer the cake to a serving plate. Optionally, smooth the side edges of the cake . Then, start arranging the apricot slices .
Arrange them to create a radial design starting from the edges of the cake until covering its inner part as well. You can arrange the apricots in a rose pattern in the center. Finally, take the apricot jam and, using a brush, evenly coat the surface of the cake , covering any gaps between the fruit. Now, the dessert is ready, and all you have to do is enjoy your cold apricot cake !
The cold apricot cake can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 2-3 days, covered with a glass dome.
It can be frozen in pre-portioned pieces.
Do you want an "apricot extravaganza" effect? Then add some small pieces of apricot in the yogurt and mascarpone cream!
Although very common in Italy, apricots are originally from China, where they were cultivated as early as 2000 B.C. From there, they spread to Persia and Armenia, but it was only with the conquest of Charlemagne that this fruit, with its many properties, arrived in Italy.

