name:
Coconut panna cotta with chocolate sauce
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: 1.67cups(400 ml)
Coconut milk: 1.67cups(400 ml)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Dark chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Coconut: to taste- sliced
Mint: 12leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 9 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 3 hours of setting in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the coconut panna cotta with chocolate sauce, start by soaking the gelatin sheets in a bowl with cold water , letting them soften completely for at least 10 minutes. Meanwhile, in a small pot, heat the cream together with the coconut milk and sugar over low heat, without boiling, stirring well with a whisk.
Once the mixture is almost boiling, turn off the heat, wait a few moments, and squeeze the excess water from the gelatin sheets before adding them to the mixture , stirring well until completely dissolved (if there are any lumps, pass the mixture through a fine mesh strainer). At this point, prepare 6 molds with a capacity of 150 ml on a tray, wetting the inside with water (this will help you remove the panna cotta once set) and then, using a ladle, fill them to the brim with the panna cotta mixture .
Once this operation is completed , place the coconut panna cotta in the refrigerator to set for at least 3 hours. Half an hour before serving the panna cotta, prepare the chocolate sauce: chop the dark chocolate with a knife and then melt it in a bain-marie in a small bowl (or a smaller pot) , ensuring that the water below does not directly touch the bottom of the container.
Meanwhile, heat the fresh cream in a small pot , and when the chocolate begins to melt, add it to the bain-marie , stirring with a wooden spoon to ensure the chocolate melts completely.
When the chocolate has melted, turn off the heat and let it cool, stirring occasionally . After the 3-hour setting time, remove the coconut panna cotta from the refrigerator and unmold it by running a smooth knife blade along the perimeter and then dipping the mold for a few seconds in boiling water, stopping 2-3 mm from the edge .
Now proceed with plating; use the back of a spoon to decorate the serving plate with the chocolate sauce as you prefer , then unmold the panna cotta onto the plate (if necessary, give a few gentle taps to release it). Next, slice the coconut thinly with a knife ;
take 3 slices and dip the tip in the chocolate sauce , then place them on top of the panna cotta and add two mint leaves (if desired, you can further decorate with the leftover sauce). Finally, serve the coconut panna cotta with chocolate sauce .
It is recommended to consume the coconut panna cotta with chocolate sauce immediately. You can store it in the refrigerator for up to 1 day, sealed in an airtight container. Freezing is not advised, as the panna cotta will lose its initial texture once thawed.
If you cannot find a coconut, you can easily dust your panna cotta with powdered coconut. Finally, a tip for the more indulgent: instead of chocolate sauce, try enjoying the coconut panna cotta with homemade Caramel ; the choice is yours!

