name:
Caramelized Fig Tart
ingredients:
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- cold from the refrigerator
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Figs: 1.8lbs(800 g)- black
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Red wine: 1oz(30 g)
Cornstarch: 4tsp(10 g)
Figs: 1.5lbs(700 g)- black
Sugar: 12tsp(50 g)
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
To prepare the caramelized fig tart, start with the preparation of the Shortcrust pastry . Place in the bowl of a food processor fitted with blades: flour, powdered sugar, a pinch of salt, and the seeds of a vanilla bean (to extract them, simply cut the bean and scrape the contents with a sharp knife). Also add the cold butter from the refrigerator, cut into cubes , and run the mixer until the butter is as fine as sand, then add the egg yolks .
Blend again until you get large crumbs . Transfer the mixture to a work surface and quickly work it with your hands , without warming it too much. Once you have a homogeneous mixture, shape it into a disc , wrap it in plastic wrap, and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, work on the fig compote. Peel your figs and cut them into 4 wedges . Pour granulated sugar into a saucepan, along with the wine .
Let the sugar dissolve with the wine over low heat and add the figs , stir everything together and let it cook for about 20 minutes . Once cooked, collect a few tablespoons of the juice they released and add it to a small bowl with the cornstarch, and whisk quickly to avoid lumps .
Add the liquid back into the pan , stir and let everything cook for 5-6 minutes until the compote thickens , and place it in a baking dish to cool .
At this point, take your pastry from the refrigerator and roll it out on a lightly floured surface, creating a circle about 1/8 inch thick . Using a rolling pin, lift the rolled-out pastry and gently place it on a 9.5-inch circular tart pan . Press the pastry into the pan and use a small knife to trim any excess that hangs over the edges .
Prick the bottom of the tart with the tines of a fork , place a disc of parchment paper over the tart and pour in ceramic baking beads (or dried beans), so that during baking the pastry doesn't puff up. Proceed with blind baking, baking your pastry in a preheated static oven at 355°F for 20 minutes (if using a convection oven, bake the crust at 320°F for about 15 minutes). Then remove the beads and continue baking for 5-6 minutes during which the pastry should turn golden but not overbake .
Let the pastry cool and only when the fig compote is also cool can you pour it over the base of your tart . Smooth the surface well and start caramelizing the figs. Clean the figs needed for decoration by rinsing them very gently with cold water and, without peeling them, cutting them into 4 wedges .
Place the sugar in a pan and let it caramelize, adding the butter as soon as the sugar starts to dissolve . Stir with a wooden spoon until you obtain an amber caramel .
At this point, add the figs and let them caramelize on both sides for a couple of minutes . Then using a spatula and being careful not to burn yourself, place the caramelized figs on the tart . Finish decorating your caramelized fig tart and serve it .
Store your caramelized fig tart in the refrigerator for 2-3 days at most.
The fig compote can be stored in sterilized jars for about 6 months.
The shortcrust pastry alone can be frozen for 2-3 months.
If you don't want to use cornstarch, you can use crumbled dry cookies to absorb the excess liquid from the compote.

