name:
Sweet and Sour Zucchini
ingredients:
Zucchini: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
White wine vinegar: 0.83cup(200 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.6cup(150 ml)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Basil: 1leaf
Juniper berries: 5berries
Bay leaves: 3leaves
Ground black pepper: 5

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the time for sterilizing the jars and re-boiling

instructions:
To prepare the sweet and sour zucchini, start by sanitizing the jars and lids, as indicated in the guidelines from the Ministry of Health at the end of the recipe. Carefully wash the jars and their lids , then line a large pot with high sides with a clean dish towel and place the jars in the pot with the opening facing upwards. Wrap one or more dish towels around the jars so they don't break by bumping into each other during boiling. Fill the pot with water until it covers the jars and bring to a boil, then lower the heat and leave the jars in the pot for another 30 minutes. Ten minutes before draining the jars, also immerse the lids to sterilize them . Once the necessary time has passed, turn off the heat and let cool. When the water is at room temperature, take the jars out of the pot and let them drain well, inverted, on a kitchen towel . Alternatively, you can dry them by putting them in the oven at the lowest setting
After completing this important operation, wash, dry the zucchini thoroughly and remove the ends . Then, using a mandoline or a vegetable peeler, cut them into thin slices lengthwise , then blanch them on both sides for a few seconds on a hot grill, turning them with kitchen tongs .
Place the grilled zucchini to cool completely in a baking dish and in the meantime, prepare the marinade. In a non-stick saucepan, place vinegar and olive oil , then turn on to low heat.
Add also the juniper berries, peppercorns, bay leaves , and finally the sugar : cook and stir with a wooden spoon until it reaches boiling point , then immediately turn off the heat and let the mixture cool.
At this point, you can proceed with the filling: fill the jars with the cold zucchini, pressing them well inside with a fork or kitchen tongs then add the basil leaf . After the marinade has cooled, add it little by little until it completely covers the zucchini but stopping 1 cm from the edge.
Position the press to compress the vegetables in the jar , then close the jars . If you use jars with screw caps, screw them tightly but not too tightly . At this point, proceed with the boiling of the jars, or pasteurization, following the guidelines from the Ministry of Health mentioned at the end of the recipe. If you use jars with screw caps, once the jars have cooled, check if the vacuum has occurred correctly: you can press in the center of the cap and, if you do not hear the classic "click-clack", the vacuum has occurred. If after reboiling you notice the formation of small air bubbles, when the jar is still hot, gently tap it on a surface to bring the bubbles to the surface, which will then naturally disappear. If you use jars with rubber gasket closures, when consuming the sweet and sour zucchini, you can test the vacuum by pulling the appropriate tab: if pulling it produces a sharp sound, it means the content has been preserved with the correct vacuum. On the contrary, if pulling the tab the gasket feels "soft", it means the vacuum was not created correctly and it is better not to consume the contents. Your sweet and sour zucchini are ready to be enjoyed!
The sweet and sour zucchini can be stored for 2 months, provided the vacuum has occurred correctly and the jars are kept in a cool, dry place, away from light and heat sources. It is recommended to wait at least 1 week before consuming the zucchini. Once each jar is opened, store it in the refrigerator and consume within 3-4 days at most, making sure to add extra virgin olive oil to keep the zucchini always covered.

After resting for a week, in the dark and dry, you can serve the well-drained zucchini with a sprinkle of fresh mint or grated lemon zest.
Homemade preparation of preserves and jams can present health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the necessary conditions and measures to ensure the safety and suitability of food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures can ensure to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to scrupulously follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but one must always keep in mind that the same food safety as professionally produced preserves and jams can never be achieved. For correct preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the guidelines from the Ministry of Health .

