name:
Pasta and broad beans
ingredients:
Ditaloni rigati pasta: 3 ¼cups(320 g)
Fava beans: 3cups(500 g)- shelled
Jowls: 4.2oz(120 g)
Onions: 1- large
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare pasta and broad beans, start with the pods of fresh broad beans: open them by breaking the top stem , then shell the beans with your hands . Once extracted, remove the small growth on the side of each one .
Cut the pork cheek into cubes and place it, without any seasoning, in a non-stick pan to brown over low heat until the fat melts and the pork cheek is golden . Clean and chop a large onion and add it to the pan along with the pork cheek ;
also add 4 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil and let the onion turn golden . At this point, add the shelled broad beans , stir. After a few minutes, add a couple of ladles of broth and let it cook over low heat for about 20-25 minutes (it might take a few more minutes depending on the size of the broad beans),
covering the pan with a lid and leaving a small vent. During cooking, add vegetable broth whenever needed until the broad beans are cooked; adjust salt and pepper, then stir and turn off the heat . Boil the ditali rigati in plenty of salted boiling water and, halfway through cooking, drain them, keeping some of their cooking water aside.
Add the ditali rigati to the broad beans and continue cooking, stirring and adding the reserved cooking water when needed. You can choose, depending on your taste, whether to get a rather dry dish or slightly soupy. When the pasta and broad beans are al dente, turn off the heat, add a couple of tablespoons of raw extra virgin olive oil, stir, and serve the pasta and broad beans , bringing grated parmesan to the table so your guests can use it as they please. Accompany the pasta and broad beans with a good red wine.
Store the pasta and broad beans in an airtight container for a couple of days. You can prepare the broad beans up to two days in advance and then mix them with freshly cooked pasta. You can freeze the cooked broad beans if you used fresh ones.
Instead of bacon, you can add pork rind to the cooking broad beans, a food widely used in the past when almost every family used to raise their own pig, of which nothing was wasted. Pork rind was often added to minestrone, soups, and pasta sauces to enrich them and add flavor. Today pork rind is consumed much less, and often pork bacon replaces it to add flavor to dishes.

