name:
Omelette with wild asparagus and speck
ingredients:
Wild asparagus: 3 ¾cups(500 g)
Eggs: 5- large
Speck: 3oz(80 g)- in one slice
Pecorino cheese: 2spoonfuls- to grate
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2spoonfuls- to grate
Coarse salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 6spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the wild asparagus and speck omelette, start by thoroughly rinsing the asparagus under running water ; with a knife, remove the woody white part , then use a vegetable peeler to strip away the outer filaments , until you reach the lighter part (for cleaning the asparagus, you can consult the Cooking School guide: how to clean asparagus)
Bundle the asparagus together and place them to boil in the basket of a special asparagus pot filled with boiling salted water to taste : the tips of the asparagus should remain out of the water . When they are cooked (it will take about 10 minutes), drain them and let them drip well. Once they have slightly cooled, cut the stalks into pieces, leaving the tips intact .
Also cut the speck into strips about a quarter inch thick . At this point, in a bowl, beat the eggs with a whisk together with the salt and pepper to taste ; and add the grated cheeses ,
the chopped speck , and finally the cut asparagus . Mix all the ingredients to combine them .
In a pan, pour 5-6 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil , heat it, and then add the previously prepared mixture which you will cook over low heat for a few minutes, with a lid .
Using the same lid, help yourself to flip the omelette to cook it on the other side, gently sliding the raw part that sticks to the lid back into the pan and continue cooking the still raw side for a few more minutes. Once cooked , slide the wild asparagus and speck omelette onto a serving plate and serve it !
You can store the wild asparagus and speck omelette for 1-2 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container. If you have used all fresh, not defrosted ingredients, you can freeze the omelette, perhaps already portioned, to defrost only the necessary quantities as needed.
You can bring the wild asparagus and speck omelette to the table already cut into slices, strips, or diamonds, or if you want to show it off in all its beauty, cut it in front of your guests!

