name:
Stuffed Zucchini Flowers with Speck and Mozzarella
ingredients:
Zucchini flowers: 12
Speck: 3.5oz(100 g)- diced
Mozzarella cheese: 0.9cup(100 g)
Zucchini: 14.1oz(400 g)- (about 4)
Ricotta cheese: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 1
Fresh scallion: 1
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the zucchini flowers stuffed with speck and mozzarella, take the zucchini flowers: wash them gently and dry them by patting them with paper towels. The flowers will need to be whole, so remove the growths, the stem, and the stalk while keeping the bottom cup intact to prevent the stuffing from coming out. Gently spread them open and place them on a cutting board . In the meantime, prepare the filling: cut the mozzarella into sticks .
Place them to drain in a sieve so they don't release water during cooking. Wash the zucchini and cut them into rounds , wash the scallion, and finely slice the white part .
Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the scallion and sauté over low heat for 5 minutes, then add the speck cubes and the zucchini rounds and cook for another 8-10 minutes to soften the zucchini. Season with some fresh thyme leaves .
Transfer everything to a tall-sided bowl, blend with an immersion mixer just enough to get a creamy and homogeneous mixture, then add the ricotta , the egg .
Mix with a whisk to combine the ingredients. Finally, add the grated Grana Padano cheese , mix again, and then transfer the cream into a piping bag .
Fill the zucchini flowers with the mixture , placing a mozzarella stick in the center , then close the flowers well by twisting the tips .
Place them in an oiled baking dish, side by side , sprinkle the surface with grated Grana Padano cheese , and bake in a preheated static oven for 10 minutes at 350°F. Once cooked, remove the stuffed zucchini flowers with speck and mozzarella from the oven and let them cool slightly before serving.
Store the zucchini flowers stuffed with speck and mozzarella for a couple of days in the refrigerator in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
If you don't like ricotta, you can use another soft cheese like robiola or Philadelphia. For a completely vegetarian recipe, omit the speck.

