name:
Anchovy Pie
ingredients:
Anchovies: 21.2oz(600 g)
Potatoes: 0.8lb(350 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 5.3oz(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Thyme: ½tsp(2 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the anchovy pies, start by boiling the potatoes in a pot with plenty of water for about 20-30 minutes, until they are soft when pricked with a fork. Meanwhile, focus on the How to Clean Anchovies . Gently remove the head and intestines, then take out the central bone , without splitting them in half but leaving them whole. Place them in this way on a tray lined with absorbent paper .
Once your potatoes are cooked, drain them from the water, let them cool slightly, and cut them into slices about 0.39 inches (1 cm) thick . Wash the tomato and slice it to the same thickness as the potatoes . Then chop the thyme leaves and set them aside.
At this point, using a brush, oil the molds with a diameter of 3.54 inches (9 cm) and 1.97 inches (5 cm) high . Place the anchovy fillets inside the molds by laying them vertically around the edge, until the mold is lined; about 10 fillets will be needed . Salt, pepper, and add some grated lemon zest .
Then place a slice of potato in the center of the anchovies and lay a couple of anchovy fillets horizontally to cover the potato slice . Salt, pepper, add the chopped thyme and lemon zest.
Place a slice of tomato , another slice of potato , and cover with the anchovies .
Fold the fillets with which you lined the mold inward , repeat the operation for all the pies and place them on a baking tray .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F (180°C) for 10 minutes (if using a convection oven, bake at 320°F (160°C) for 7-8 minutes). Remove the pies from the oven and let them cool for a few minutes, then invert the molds , unmold them, and serve your anchovy pie still warm .
Store your anchovy pies in the refrigerator for up to 2 days once cooked. Freezing is not recommended.
You can enrich the layers of the pie with slices of grilled vegetables, capers, and aromatic herbs!

