name:
Artichoke Flans with Parmesan Sauce
ingredients:
Artichokes: 4
Onions: 1
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Vegetable broth: 2mestoli
Eggs: 3- small
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: ⅛cup(20 g)
Whole milk: 0.625cup(150 ml)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Nutmeg: 1pinch
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(100 ml)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 4spoonfuls
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 5spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 5 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Start by cleaning the How to clean artichokes : remove the tough outer leaves; once you reach the heart, cut it into 4 parts and place all the pieces in a solution of acidulated water (water and lemon juice). Clean and chop an onion and let it brown in a pan with 3 tablespoons of olive oil; drain and cut the artichokes into small squares , then add them to the onion and let them cook over low heat for about 15-20 minutes, covering with a lid and adding, when needed, some vegetable broth (or hot water) .
When cooking is complete, and the cooking liquid has completely evaporated, pepper and salt if necessary. When the mixture has cooled, blend it until you obtain a smooth cream . Prepare a Béchamel sauce by melting the butter in a pan; add the flour, mixing to remove all lumps, then add the milk, salt, and nutmeg. When the béchamel is thick but not too thick, turn off the heat. Mix the béchamel with the artichoke cream
and also add 2 tablespoons of grated parmesan and the 3 eggs . Oil 5 molds (like for crème caramel)
and fill them by dividing the artichoke mixture obtained . Bake the artichoke flans for about 35-40 minutes in a preheated oven at 350°F. In the meantime, prepare the parmesan sauce by placing the cream in a small saucepan and bringing it to just below boiling; then add the parmesan , and stir to melt it. Finish by adjusting with salt and pepper. At this point, also prepare the Parmesan Wafers : line a baking sheet with parchment paper, then distribute 5 tablespoons of grated cheese on the surface forming 5 circles about 4 inches in diameter.
Once the artichoke flans are baked , let them rest for a few minutes, just the time needed to insert the baking sheet with the wafers ready to bake in the oven. When the wafers have turned golden brown (it will take a few minutes), remove the baking sheet from the oven and place the wafers on 5 serving plates : remove the flans and place each one on its wafer. Finally, pour the parmesan sauce over the flans and serve immediately, sprinkling the dish with ground white pepper.
If you want to create an additional decorative element on the flans, prepare 2 more parmesan wafers, break them into triangles, and place them on the artichoke flans.

