name:
Tortelli with raisin scented with orange
ingredients:
Eggs: 3- medium
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Orange peel: 1- untreated
Orange juice: - 2-3 tablespoons
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)- (1 packet)
Whole milk: 0.42cup(100 ml)
Raisins: 0.4cup(60 g)
Rum: 2spoonfuls- (or other liqueur)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes of resting

instructions:
Soak the raisins in rum and enough lukewarm water to cover them completely. Crack the eggs and place them in a bowl with the sugar and milk
and the grated orange zest . Beat the ingredients with a whisk , then add the strained orange juice and,
continuing to stir, add the sifted flour mixed with baking powder , mixing well to combine the ingredients using a whisk until the mixture reaches a smooth and homogeneous consistency .
finally, drain the raisins , squeeze them out, and add them to the mixture , and mix well, still using a whisk
cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rest for half an hour . Pour oil into a pan with high sides and heat it until it's hot but not boiling; take an amount of dough about the size of a walnut with a spoon and, with the help of another spoon, let it slide into the hot oil. Once the dough is immersed in the oil, turn the tortello so it cooks and puffs up evenly on all sides.
The frying should be done slowly so that the tortello has time to cook inside without burning on the outside. Fry all the dough in small batches until it's all used; when the tortelli are golden brown, drain them with a slotted spoon and place them on paper towels to absorb the excess oil. Dust the tortelli with raisin scented with orange with powdered sugar and cinnamon (17-18) and serve them hot or warm.
Tortelli with raisin scented with orange are excellent when eaten immediately, hot or warm. If you want, you can store them for up to the next day by keeping them in a tin box lined with paper towels! When serving, you can warm them in the oven for a few minutes to make them soft again!
If you wish, instead of dusting the tortelli with powdered sugar, you can roll them in granulated sugar.

