name:
Sweet Carnival Ravioli
ingredients:
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Sugar: 5tbsp(60 g)
Eggs: 1
Whole milk: 0.42cup(100 ml)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Vanilla bean: 1
Jams: to taste
Egg whites: 1
Powdered sugar: to taste
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + 30 min. of dough resting time

instructions:
To make the sweet Carnival ravioli, pour the sifted flour , cubed butter , sugar , into the bowl of a stand mixer with a paddle attachment (or in a bowl if kneading by hand),
the egg , vanilla seeds , milk , and a pinch of salt
and lemon zest . Knead the ingredients well until you obtain a smooth and compact dough , transfer it to a bowl
that you will cover with plastic wrap and let rest for half an hour in a cool place . Take the dough, divide it into portions (about 5 oz), flatten them , and work them with a pasta machine (or a rolling pin) to obtain a thickness of 1/16 inch, which generally corresponds to the penultimate thickness of the pasta roller, for best results consult the cooking school guide how to roll out dough. If the dough tears during processing, flour it, fold it in three, and pass it through the machine again until it is smooth and compact, passing it from the thicker rollers to the thinner ones.
Place a sheet on a work surface and place small mounds of filling (a scant teaspoon) on it at a few inches apart from each other, to make this operation easier you can transfer the filling to a piping bag to portion the filling better: you can choose between a jam of your choice or Nutella. Brush the edges of the sheet and the surface between one mound of filling and another with egg white, then fold the sheet lengthwise closing it like a book , press the dough around the filling to remove the air, then with a fluted pastry wheel, cut out the ravioli . Continue in this way until the dough is used up.
Pour some seed oil into a deep pan and when it is hot but not boiling, immerse 2-3 ravioli at most at a time , turning them on both sides and draining them as soon as they are golden. Place the ravioli on kitchen paper to remove excess oil and then once dry, dust them with vanilla powdered sugar. Serve the sweet Carnival ravioli warm or cold.
It is recommended to consume the sweet ravioli on the same day. You can freeze the ravioli raw.
If you want to make the sweet ravioli more lively, you can brush them with liquid honey (slightly heated) and sprinkle them with colored sprinkles or confetti.

