name:
Little escaped birds
ingredients:
Pork loin: 10.6oz(300 g)- in 12 slices
Sage: 12leaves
Pancetta: 1.8oz(50 g)- diced
Pancetta tesa: 12slices
Luganega sausage: 2.5oz(75 g)
Butter: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
White wine: 1.7oz(50 ml)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch
White wine: - 1/2 glass
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)
Rosemary: - 2-3 sprigs
Sage: - 5-6 leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the little escaped birds, start by cutting the sausage into chunks , you should get 16. Flatten the meat slices, to avoid fibering the meat, place the slices on a sheet of parchment paper , fold the sheet, and then pound with a meat tenderizer to make them thin.
Cut the slices in half (try to obtain strips about 2.5-3 inches wide), placing a sage leaf and 3-4 cubes of bacon on each slice : wrap the meat slices to form a roll (you should get 12).
Wrap a slice of smoked bacon around each roll . Skewer the obtained roll on a skewer stick, then skewer a piece of sausage, another roll , a piece of sausage, and finish with a roll. Prepare, in this way, 8 skewers. In a rather large pan, melt the butter
along with the sage leaves and rosemary sprigs . Add the skewers and brown them gently on both sides; when they are nicely browned, add ground pepper and sprinkle with white wine. Cook the little escaped birds for about 20 minutes in total, adding, if necessary, a little hot water or boiling broth. Towards the end of cooking , adjust for salt and serve immediately, accompanying the little escaped birds with traditional steaming polenta or mashed potatoes.
Store the little escaped birds in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for a couple of days at most. Freezing is not recommended.
The most famous regional recipes concerning little escaped birds are the Lombard one (uselett scapaa) and the Venetian one (oselei scampai).
There are numerous regional variations of this recipe: in some cases, the sausage is replaced with cubes of bacon or lard, skewered with sage leaves; in other cases, with slices of liver. The Bolognese version includes mortadella instead of bacon in the filling. Some even skip the rolls altogether, cut the meat into cubes, and skewer them alternated with sage leaves.

