name:
Strawberry Meringue Cake
ingredients:
Egg whites: (150 g)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Egg yolks: 7.1tbsp(100 g)- (about 6)
Cornstarch: 3.1tbsp(25 g)
Rice starch: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1.3cups(300 g)- cold
Powdered sugar: 5tbsp(20 g)
Strawberries: 3.1cups(450 g)
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 4 h
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + cooling times for the meringue, the custard (3 h), and the cake (3 h)

instructions:
To prepare the strawberry meringue cake, start with the meringue: in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment (alternatively, you can use hand mixers), pour the egg whites , half of the sugar , and the lemon juice .
Turn the mixer on medium speed, and when the meringue begins to be well whipped , add the remaining half of the sugar . Continue to whip until you get a thick, shiny, and frothy mixture .
Transfer the meringue to a piping bag with a plain nozzle and draw a circle with a diameter of 8 inches on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Create a meringue disk by forming concentric circles from the outside to the center , then do the same to make a second meringue disk. With the remaining mixture, pipe small meringues onto the baking sheet; you will use these for decoration . Bake in a preheated static oven at 194°F for at least 4 hours or until the meringue is dry and crispy . Once baked, turn off the oven and let the meringues cool inside.
In the meantime, prepare the custard: heat the milk in a saucepan with the addition of lemon zest . In a separate bowl, pour the egg yolks and sugar , then mix with a whisk. Once well combined, add the cornstarch and rice starch .
When the milk is about to boil, add it to the yolk mixture, straining it through a sieve . Mix well and pour everything back into the saucepan . Let the custard thicken over medium-low heat, stirring constantly with the whisk .
Once thickened, transfer the custard to a baking dish, cover with plastic wrap in contact with the surface, and let it cool first at room temperature and then in the refrigerator for at least 3 hours . After cooling, focus on the strawberries: trim and cut about 1 cup into wedges and 1 cup into cubes .
Lastly, prepare the whipped cream: pour the cream and powdered sugar into a bowl , then whip with electric beaters and transfer it to a piping bag with a plain nozzle .
You are ready to assemble the cake: place the first meringue disk on a serving plate , then decorate the edge with dollops of whipped cream . Take the custard from the fridge, soften it with a whisk, then fill the center using a piping bag .
Spread the cubed strawberries over the custard and gently press with your hands to level them , then cover with the second meringue disk .
Decorate the edge with more dollops of whipped cream and fill the center with custard . Now garnish the surface with strawberry wedges .
Add the small meringues and finish with a few mint leaves . Place your strawberry meringue cake in the refrigerator for at least 3 hours before serving and enjoying !
It is recommended to consume the cake immediately or freeze it for up to 5 days, without the strawberries on top.
You can substitute strawberries with your choice of seasonal fruit such as berries, figs, or apricots to create delicious variations all year round!
The combination of rice and cornstarch allows for an ideal cream consistency for this recipe, but if you prefer, you can use rice starch with the same amount of cornstarch or vice versa.

