name:
Double Chocolate Viennese Biscuits
ingredients:
Powdered sugar: ½cup(60 g)
Butter: 1cup(115 g)- at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Whole milk: ⅛cup(30 g)
Orange peel: 1
Dark chocolate: 4.4oz(125 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the double chocolate Viennese cookies, beat the butter with the powdered sugar using an electric mixer (1-2), until you get a frothy mixture .
Add the zest of 1 untreated orange , then add the flour and cocoa , sift them and add to the butter and sugar cream . Work the mixture again to blend the cocoa and flour,
then add the milk and mix again; you should get a dough that is neither too hard nor too liquid, with a buttery consistency. Transfer it into a piping bag with a fairly large star nozzle ; place a sheet of baking paper on a baking tray, then start forming the cookies about 2 to 2.5 inches long ,
arranged a couple of inches apart from each other . Bake the cookies in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 12 minutes (320°F for about 6-8 minutes if using a convection oven). With these quantities, you will get about 30-35 cookies. Once baked, remove them from the oven and let them cool on a wire rack ; meanwhile, melt the chocolate in the microwave or in a bain-marie (in this case, the water in the pot on the fire should not touch the bottom of the bowl or pot where you are melting the chocolate). Once melted
dip one end of each cookie into the chocolate and place them on a tray lined with baking paper ; then sprinkle each cookie with some crumbs over the part with the melted chocolate . Let the melted chocolate set at room temperature and your double chocolate Viennese cookies are ready to be served!
Store the double chocolate Viennese cookies in a tin box or glass jar.
Freezing is not recommended.
To make sure the crumbs stick to the melted chocolate, it's best to sprinkle them on the cookies immediately after dipping them in the chocolate, so as to prevent the latter from cooling and drying. If you don't like hazelnuts, no problem! You can use pistachio or almond crumbs. The more indulgent ones can create a mix with these three crumbs and thus cover the double chocolate Viennese cookies!

