name:
Pork strudel with Marsala apples
ingredients:
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Whole milk: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Pork loin: 0.8lb(380 g)
Sweet Pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fresh scallion: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Thyme: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Rennet apple: 1
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Butter: 0.4tbsp(6 g)
Marsala wine: 2tbsp(30 g)- fine

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time for the seasoning

instructions:
To prepare the pork strudel with Marsala apples, start by preparing the filling. Clean, peel, and cut the spring onions into rings, not too finely , then stew them in a pan until they are soft . Now cut the bacon into strips
and add it to the spring onions , browning well. Cut the pork loin into strips , also add it to the spring onions and bacon until golden .
Season with salt, pepper, and finish by adding the thyme . Let the filling cool in a bowl. Continue with making the strudel dough. Sift the flour onto a work surface and create the classic well with a hollow in the center . Dissolve the salt in the water
then add the oil and incorporate the obtained mixture into the flour . Also add the beaten egg and knead the ingredients .
When you have reached a homogeneous and elastic dough, roll it out with a rolling pin on a cloth , which will be used to roll the strudel. Roll out a sheet 1/8 inch thick, measuring about 16 x 16 inches. Spread the now cooled filling, reaching 1 inch from the edges, and trim the square with the tip of a knife to give a more regular shape . At this point, brush the edges with water and roll the strudel with the help of the cloth .
Seal all the edges well so that the filling does not escape . Place it in the refrigerator for 10-15 minutes. After the resting time, take the strudel from the refrigerator and brush the surface with milk, using a kitchen brush . You can now create decorations with the leftover dough to beautify the strudel: make leaves and small apples with special cutters ,
then distribute them on the strudel and brush everything again with milk . Bake in a preheated oven at 390°F for 30 minutes (if ventilated, at 355°F for 20 minutes), on the middle rack, until you get a nice golden color. Meanwhile, prepare the accompaniment. Peel the apple, removing the core , then cut it into wedges .
Now place the sugar in a bowl and pass the obtained wedges through it, on both sides . In a pan, gently melt the butter and then add the sweetened apples , placing them neatly. Brown them on both sides.
At this point, drizzle them with Marsala and let it evaporate, being careful that it dries without burning . Finally, remove the strudel from the oven, which you can present whole or in slices accompanied by the warm apples .
The pork strudel can be frozen after cooking, once it has completely cooled and placed in an airtight container.
Alternatively, you can use veal or beef. The strudel can also be made with puff pastry if you prefer more crunchiness.

