name:
Pasta bake with artichokes, potatoes, and peas
ingredients:
Penne Rigate pasta: 7oz(200 g)
Artichokes: 0.7lb(300 g)- already cleaned
Potatoes: 3cups(450 g)
Peas: 2cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3oz(80 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Breadcrumbs: 2tbsp(30 g)
White onions: 2.1oz(60 g)
Stale bread: ¼cup(50 g)- crumb only
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Parsley: 2tbsp(10 g)- chopped
Garlic: 1clove
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare a pasta bake with artichokes, potatoes, and peas, start by cleaning the artichokes. Remove the tougher outer leaves until you reach the tender ones; cut off the ends of the remaining leaves and hollow out the center of the artichoke to remove the choke. Then, place them in a mixture of cold water and lemon to prevent them from browning .
Cut the artichokes into quarters and from each quarter, cut into 4 strips . In a pot, prepare a sauté with finely chopped onion and a drizzle of oil, then once the onion has softened, add the artichokes . Let them sauté for about 5 minutes, seasoning with salt and pepper, and add a ladle of pasta cooking water .
In the meantime, peel, wash, and cut the potatoes into cubes, about a quarter-inch thick . Add the shelled peas to the pot with the artichokes , let them flavor, and add the potato cubes .
Mix gently and add another ladle of cooking water , cover with a lid, and let it cook on low heat just long enough for the potatoes to become tender but not fall apart (a few minutes will suffice). Turn off the heat, season with salt and pepper. Meanwhile, finely crumble the stale bread crumb and place it in a bowl with chopped parsley, crushed garlic , salt, and oil .
Add the grated cheeses and mix the ingredients well . At this point, cook the penne in plenty of salted water to taste .
Then prepare the Hard Boiled Eggs until they are hard. Then slice them with a slicer or a knife and set them aside. Drain the pasta, add it to the pot, and mix it with the freshly prepared sauce .
Take a baking dish, grease it with butter , and coat it with breadcrumbs . Then fill it with half of the freshly prepared pasta .
Add, mixing in, ¾ of the crumbled bread mixture and half of the egg slices ; then cover with the remaining pasta and level the surface by flattening it with a spoon .
Cover with the remaining breadcrumbs , add the other egg slices , and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 20 minutes; then raise the oven to 392°F and continue for another 10 minutes until a nice golden crust forms on the surface. Or to speed up this process, turn on the oven grill for 2-3 minutes (in this case, it is not recommended to use a convection oven as it tends to dry out the pasta). Serve your pasta bake with potatoes, artichokes, and peas while still hot !
Store your pasta bake with artichokes, potatoes, and peas in the refrigerator for up to one day. Alternatively, you can choose to freeze it before reheating it in the oven, and bake it only after defrosting it in the fridge.
If you want to make this pasta bake richer, you can add diced provolone (even smoked) or other similar cheese, to be added just before baking everything. If you don't like them, you can easily omit the boiled eggs.

