name:
Pistachio Crusted Lamb Chops
ingredients:
Lamb chops: 16- (about 800 g of meat to be cleaned)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fine salt: to taste
Egg whites: 1
Pecorino cheese: 3spoonfuls- grated
Parsley: 2spoonfuls- chopped
Roasted Pistachios: ½cup(60 g)
Bread: 2spoonfuls- only the crumbled breadcrumbs
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the pistachio crusted lamb chops, first clean the chops by removing all the fat around the meat from both sides (1-2), and clean the protruding bone well with a small knife, scraping off all the cartilage around it .
Remove the final part of the bone (the one attached to the meat) , using a knife, to get a tender morsel of lamb attached to a thin chop . Prepare all sixteen chops this way. To save time, you can ask your trusted butcher to prepare 16 pre-cleaned chops for you. Roast the pistachios on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper for a couple of minutes in a preheated oven at 392°F .
Chop the pistachios in a mixer, making sure they are not too fine , transfer them to a bowl and add the chopped parsley and two crushed cloves of garlic ,
the salt and breadcrumbs , the grated pecorino cheese , and mix the ingredients well to get an even breading .
Dip the chops in the egg white , one at a time, making sure to cover the entire surface of the meat, then coat them with the prepared breading , pressing well on all sides to get an even coating for all 16 chops .
In a non-stick pan, place the butter (you can also use clarified butter or olive oil if you prefer), melt it and add the chops , browning them on both sides for a couple of minutes per side. When your chops are golden and crispy , serve them immediately, accompanied by a fresh salad or roasted potatoes! Taste how delicious the pistachio crusted lamb chops are!
It is recommended to consume the pistachio crusted lamb chops immediately, right after they are made. If any are left, store them in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day in an airtight container.
You can add chopped thyme or rosemary or ground pepper to the breading.

