name:
Andalusian Stuffed Squid
ingredients:
Calamari (squid): - 4 large (about 80 g each)
Onions: 1
Carrots: 1
Cluster tomatoes: 3
Eggs: 2
Saffron: 1bag
Parsley: 1tuft
Breadcrumbs: 5spoonfuls
Extra virgin olive oil: 6spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the Andalusian stuffed squid, start by cleaning the squid: take the squid, empty the sack, remove the bone and the membrane covering the sack, detach the tentacles, and remove the beak . Separate the side fins from the body and finely chop them together with the tentacles , set aside the cleaned squid sacks. For a detailed guide on cleaning squid, click here.
Then move on to preparing a Hard Boiled Eggs , once ready, peel it and let it cool. Now prepare the filling: peel and finely chop an onion and a carrot, then sauté half the onion with 3 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil, and when it wilts, add half the carrot . Let it cook for 5 minutes over moderate heat, then add the chopped squid . Cook for another 5 minutes, then remove from the heat and place the filling in a large bowl with the breadcrumbs .
At this point, take the hard-boiled egg and separate the yolk from the white. Crumble the yolk and chop the white, then beat a second egg in a small bowl with a fork, and finally finely chop a sprig of parsley. Add to the squid mixture the breadcrumbs, the hard-boiled egg , the beaten egg , the parsley, and season with salt and pepper .
Mix all the ingredients well, then start assembling the squid: fill the sack with a couple of tablespoons of filling and close the squid with a toothpick as shown in the photo . At this point, prepare the sauce: sauté the remaining carrot and onion with 3 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil .
Wash, clean, and dice the tomatoes, then add them to the sauté . At this point, add the saffron dissolved in a tablespoon of water , then the stuffed squid . Cover with a lid and continue cooking over low heat for 30 minutes, shaking the pan occasionally to prevent them from sticking to the bottom. When the Andalusian squid are cooked, place them on a serving dish, slice them, and sprinkle them with the tomato sauce.
Store the stuffed squid in the refrigerator, placed in an airtight container, for a maximum of two days.
Try adding some raisins to the stuffing of these squid; it's a characteristic touch of the Arab influence in southern Spanish cuisine. If the sauce is too thick, you can lighten it with a splash of water.

