name:
White Chocolate Bavarian Cream with Mint Sauce
ingredients:
Gelatin in sheets: 0.25oz(6 g)
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(300 g)- fresh
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
White chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Vanilla bean: 1
Gelatin in sheets: 0.03oz(0.5 g)- in sheets
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Mint syrup: 2tsp(10 g)
Mint: 6leaves
Food coloring: ¼tsp(1 g)- green (optional)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 5
Cost: Low
Note + 1 night in the fridge to set

instructions:
To prepare the white chocolate Bavarian cream with mint sauce, chop the white chocolate and set it aside. Then in a bowl, combine the sugar and egg yolks and mix well with a spatula . In a saucepan, pour the milk together with the cream. Split the vanilla bean lengthwise and scrape out the seeds with a small knife. Infuse the vanilla bean and its seeds and place on low heat. When it reaches a boil, remove the vanilla bean .
Temper the sugared yolks with a little of the warm milk and vanilla mixture , then pour them into the saucepan along with the rest of the milk . Mix well with a whisk and thicken until, when dipping a spoon into the cream, it will be slightly coated. Once ready, remove from heat.
Soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for 10 minutes , squeeze them and add to the hot cream while continuing to stir. Finally, add the chopped white chocolate .
Continue stirring until the chocolate is completely melted , then strain the cream through a fine mesh sieve , and finally pour it into molds of 2 inches in diameter and 3 inches in height . Transfer the molds to the fridge to set for at least one night, better a whole day.
Now take care of the accompanying mint sauce. Heat the cream with the mint leaves . Once it reaches a boil, remove from heat, and let it infuse for an hour. After this time, add the mint syrup and the coloring if you wish for a brighter color . Strain the sauce through a sieve to remove the mint leaves .
Now pour the soaked gelatin sheets into the filtered sauce as above , mix well. Cover with plastic wrap and let cool in the fridge for about an hour. When ready to serve, start demolding the Bavarians: first, run a smooth-edged knife between the Bavarian and the mold .
To facilitate extraction, immerse the mold with the Bavarian in hot water for a few moments , being careful not to reach the edge to avoid wetting the inside. Turn the molds upside down onto the serving plate and serve the white chocolate Bavarians accompanied by the mint sauce, garnishing to taste with a few fresh mint leaves .
The white chocolate Bavarian cream with mint sauce can be stored covered in the refrigerator for up to 4-5 days maximum.
If you want to make your dessert even more special, instead of using vanilla to flavor your Bavarian, choose cinnamon, star anise, or even licorice: the wow effect is guaranteed!

