name:
Potato boats with cheddar and bacon
ingredients:
Potatoes: 8- small
Smoked pancetta: 2.5oz(70 g)
Parsley: 2spoonfuls- chopped
Cheddar cheese: 4.2oz(120 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the potato boats with cheddar and bacon, wash the potatoes well under running water , dry them and then pierce the skin with the tines of a fork or a toothpick. Place the potatoes on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake in a preheated oven at 392°F for about an hour.
While the potatoes are cooking, cut the bacon and cheddar into small pieces (4-5) and melt the butter in a small saucepan .
When the potatoes are cooked and tender, remove them from the oven and cut them in half, being careful not to break the skin . With a teaspoon, scoop out the flesh from the center of the potatoes , leaving about a 1/4 inch border. Place the potato boats on the baking sheet and brush the inside with melted butter ; return them to the oven for 15 minutes until they are well-browned.
Fry the bacon on a hot griddle (or non-stick pan) until it is crispy . When the potatoes are nicely golden, remove them from the oven, then salt and pepper them and top with the cheddar pieces and
the crispy bacon and bake them again until the cheese is melted . Serve the potato boats with cheddar and bacon right after taking them out of the oven, sprinkling them with chopped parsley or chopped chives as desired!
Store the potato boats with cheddar and bacon in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to a couple of days.
This dish can be reinvented in many ways. One of my favorites is to sprinkle the boats with salt and rosemary, leaving them in the oven longer: you'll get very simple and very crunchy boats, a real delight! If you don't like cheddar, or can't find it, any cheese will do as long as it is structured and melts without becoming liquid, such as fontina, raclette, emmentaler, or gruyere.

