name:
Red Wine Cake
ingredients:
Red wine: 0.7cup(150 ml)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 4- medium
Butter: 1.1cups(250 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp
Ground cloves: - 1/2 teaspoon
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(20 g)
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(200 g)
Powdered sugar: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Vanilla bean: - seeds from 1/2 pod

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the red wine cake, cut the butter at room temperature into cubes and place it in a food processor with blades; add the sugar and blend everything until you get a cream. Separate the yolks from the whites (keep the whites, as they will be used later) and gradually add the yolks to the mixture ; mix them well, then add the ground cinnamon and cloves .
Also add the unsweetened cocoa powder and then the red wine . Stir until you obtain a uniformly colored cream and at this point transfer the batter into a bowl; add the sifted flour mixed with baking powder and mix well with a spatula to avoid lumps .
In a separate bowl, beat the egg whites you set aside to stiff peaks using an electric mixer ; once the egg whites are whipped, gently fold them into the mixture in three additions using a spatula, mixing from bottom to top to avoid deflating the batter. Then, finely chop the dark chocolate with a knife ,
And add it to the batter you have prepared . Butter and line with parchment paper a 9-inch cake pan and pour the batter into it , leveling it well with the spatula .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 300°F for 90 minutes (or in a convection oven at 265°F for 80 minutes); to check if the cake is done, do the toothpick test: if it comes out dry, the cake is ready; otherwise, continue baking for a few more minutes. Once ready , take the cake out of the oven and remove it from the pan, placing it on a wire rack to cool . Just before serving, prepare the decorations: slice the vanilla bean lengthwise and scrape out the seeds with a small knife. Pour the fresh liquid cream into a cold bowl and whip it with powdered sugar using an electric mixer, making sure to use cold beaters (you can place the bowl and beaters in the fridge for a few minutes before using them): this way, you will be able to whip the cream more easily .
Add the vanilla seeds and continue mixing with the beaters . When the cream is ready, place the red wine cake, which should be cooled by now, on a serving plate or a cake stand; finally, using a piping bag with a star nozzle, decorate it with the whipped cream you have prepared and serve . For a more refined final touch, you can also add a whole vanilla bean and a couple of cinnamon sticks to the decoration.
Store the red wine cake (without decoration) under a glass dome for a maximum of 2-3 days.
To make your red wine cake even more beautiful and tasty, you can decorate it by adding dark chocolate shavings; indulge in deliciousness!

