name:
Filled chocolates
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 10.6oz(300 g)
Milk Chocolate: 10.5oz(300 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(130 ml)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)- (at room temperature)
Rum: - 1/2 small glass

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the filled chocolates with ganache cream, you first need to get special chocolate molds (silicone ones will work perfectly). Melt 7 oz of dark chocolate in a bain-marie: break the chocolate into pieces, place it in a smaller saucepan over a larger one containing 3-4 inches of boiling water; the saucepan with the chocolate should never touch the water directly. The chocolate will slowly melt thanks to the heat from the steam. Once completely melted, fill silicone molds with the melted chocolate and then remove it from the mold so only a thin layer remains on the walls: then put the molds in the fridge to let the chocolate harden.
Meanwhile, prepare the ganache cream: heat the cream in a pot, then turn off the heat just before it boils, add the milk chocolate cut into pieces and mix well until completely melted. Let it cool to an ideal temperature of about 89-95°F; if you don't have a suitable thermometer at home, transfer the ganache cream to a cold plate and let it cool for about 20 minutes. In the meantime, work the butter with a spatula or fork until it reaches a creamy consistency; add the butter to the chocolate and cream mixture and mix well. Pour in the rum and continue mixing until all the ingredients are fully combined.
Take the molds out of the fridge, fill them with the ganache cream leaving a margin of about 1/25 inch from the edge. Slightly tap the molds on the work surface to eliminate any air bubbles, then place them in the fridge for an hour until the ganache cream sets.
Melt 3.5 oz of dark chocolate in a bain-marie, and when it is melted, add the chocolate that was left over at the beginning of the preparation. With this melted chocolate, create a layer over the molds, then level it with a spatula and place the molds in the fridge where you will leave them for 2 hours, after which you can remove the chocolates from the molds.
The chocolates taste even better if left to rest in the fridge for at least 24 hours before consuming them. For a different filling, try removing 2 oz of cream and replacing it with 2 oz of raspberry, strawberry, mango pulp, etc., or adding finely chopped hazelnuts inside the ganache cream.
If you like shredded coconut, try our Coconut chocolates recipe!

