name:
Shortbread Faces with Chocolate and Jam
ingredients:
Butter: 85- cold
Type 00 flour: 1.4cups(170 g)
Vanilla bean: 1- the seeds of 1/2 pod
Egg yolks: 1
Powdered sugar: 65
Fine salt: to taste
Nutella: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Apricot jam: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes of resting time for the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
To prepare the shortbread faces with chocolate and jam, start with the shortbread: in a mixer, pour the flour, cold butter in chunks, a pinch of salt, and powdered sugar , then blend everything for a few seconds until you get a sandy mixture . Pour it onto a work surface, forming the classic fountain shape. Split the vanilla pod and scrape the seeds with a small knife .
Add the vanilla seeds to the center of the fountain , also add the egg yolk , and knead briefly .
Form a dough ball and wrap it with plastic wrap , then place it in the refrigerator to firm for at least 30 minutes. After the necessary time, roll out the shortbread dough into a 1/5-inch thick sheet . Using a circular pastry cutter about 4 inches in diameter, cut out 8 shapes .
Place the discs on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , then with a crescent moon-shaped pastry cutter, make smiling mouths on half of them (alternatively, you can use the tip of a knife and cut the smile by hand), then create the eyes with a 3/4-inch diameter pastry cutter . The leftover dough will be used to make the nose of the faces.
Brush the faces with a little water between the two eye holes and place the "nose" (13-14); you can bake the faces in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 15-20 minutes (if using a fan oven, 320°F for 10-15 minutes).
Once cooked, take them out of the oven and let them cool completely on a rack . At this point, fill 2 whole discs with Nutella and place the shortbread faces .
You can fill the other two remaining discs with jam and close them with the faces . Serve the shortbread faces with chocolate and jam to your children for a cheerful snack !
Store the shortbread faces under a glass dome or covered with plastic wrap. You can freeze the shortbread dough and defrost it when needed before making the faces!
Free interpretation for the filling that your children prefer: peach jam, blackberry, mixed berries, or simply... lots of Nutella! The shortbread faces smile at everyone, so they can be made with kamut or rice flour, while for chocolate lovers, replace part of the flour with unsweetened cocoa powder!

