name:
Clam Soup
ingredients:
Clams: 4.5lbs(2 kg)
Shrimp: 8.8oz(250 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 2cups(300 g)
Fresh scallion: 3
Garlic: 2cloves
Anchovies: 2- in oil
Parsley: 1tuft
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Celery: 1.1oz(30 g)
Carrots: 2oz(60 g)
Tomato paste: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
White wine: 7oz(200 g)
Coarse salt: 0.7tsp(4 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Ground white pepper: 8
Homemade bread: 4slices

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare clam soup, first make sure that the clams do not contain sand: tap each one on a cutting board on the open side . If dark sand comes out, it means the clam is full of sand and should be discarded. Also discard any with broken shells. Then place them in a colander resting on a bowl and rinse them several times under running water: finish when no more sand is visible in the bowl. Set them aside for a moment; move on to the How to clean shrimp . Remove the head (if present), then shell them (keep the shell aside) and remove the black thread (the intestine) by delicately incising the back of the shrimp and pulling it out gently with a toothpick.
Clean the vegetables needed for the Shellfish Stock : cut off the beard of the spring onion and the green part and cut it into rings; peel and chop the celery and carrot, then coarsely chop the parsley and chives . Finally, cut 150 g of tomatoes in half .
In a pan, place a drop of oil along with all the chopped vegetables , add the shells , and sauté for a couple of minutes over medium heat, then deglaze with 50 g of white wine
and add the cherry tomatoes . Then pour in 500 g of water , the coarse salt , and the white peppercorns;
cook the broth for at least 30 minutes over medium heat . Meanwhile, take the clams, drain them and toss them into a large saucepan where you have sautéed a whole garlic clove (so you can remove it more easily) (14-15).
Deglaze with 150 g of white wine , then cover with a lid and cook until the shells open, over high heat. Once ready ,
Once ready, you can drain them and save the liquid created; shell them, leaving a few whole to add to the soup with the shell . Take the fresh chili, cut it open and remove the seeds , then slice it into strips.
In a large saucepan, pour a drizzle of oil and sauté the garlic in its skin, which you can then remove with kitchen tongs. Then add the anchovy fillets and the chili . After a few moments, add 150 g of tomatoes cut into wedges and season with salt and a tablespoon of tomato paste. While the tomatoes soften over low heat,
you can blend the shellfish broth with a mixer . Then pass it through a sieve to obtain only the liquid part . You will thus have ready the broth and the clam cooking liquid ,
which you can add to the tomatoes (28-29). Cook everything over moderate heat for 20-25 minutes. Then add the shrimp and cook for about 8 minutes.
Finally, add the shelled clams and those with the shell (31-32). Adjust the salt if necessary and season with white pepper. You can accompany the clam soup with croutons, toasting the bread slices under the oven grill.
It is recommended to consume the clam soup as soon as it is made.
It can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 day.
Freezing is not recommended.
For the broth and soup, you can also use peeled tomatoes and for a tastier recipe, you could also add mussels!

