name:
Haunted tagliolini in the pepper
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(280 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Eggs: 3- medium
Cuttlefish ink: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Red peppers: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Bell peppers: 4- regular squares not too tall

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes of resting time for the pasta

instructions:
To prepare the haunted tagliolini in the pepper, start by making the egg tagliolini with squid ink. In a large bowl, place the flour, eggs, salt, and squid ink and knead with your hands until all the ingredients are combined . Transfer the mixture to a floured work surface and knead well until smooth and homogeneous. Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest for about half an hour.
After this time, work the dough with a pasta machine to obtain a sheet about 0.04 inches thick . Set up the bar to obtain strips 0.08-0.12 inches wide and pass the pasta sheets through : gather the tagliolini obtained with your hand and place them on a floured work surface or hang them on a pasta dryer, well floured, and let them dry for a few minutes .
Preheat the oven to 482°F; wash and dry the red peppers, then line a baking tray with parchment paper, place the peppers on it, and bake for 30 minutes until the skin is roasted and begins to peel off (see instructions by clicking here). When the peppers are ready, remove them from the oven and place them in a plastic bag : let them sweat until they become lukewarm, then take them out and peel them (see how to do it by clicking here). This way, the skin will come off more easily .
Remove the stem, open them up, and remove all seeds and internal filaments , then put the pepper fillets obtained in a mixer along with the oil , salt, and cream . Turn on the mixer blades and blend for a couple of minutes,
to obtain a smooth and velvety pepper cream . Bring a pot of salted water to a boil and immerse the tagliolini, cooking them until al dente (14-15).
While the pasta is cooking, move on to carving the peppers for the final decoration of the dish: cut off the top part of the 4 peppers, about 3/4 of the height, obtaining a sort of cap . With a sharp pointed knife, remove the white internal filaments and the seeds (17-18).
Now carve the peppers on the smoothest side without dents: cut out two equidistant triangles for the eyes ; a long bottom cut that will be the mouth and finally a smaller central triangle to serve as the nose , just like in the photo .
Place the red pepper sauce in a non-stick pan and when the pasta is cooked, drain it and add it to the sauce: toss everything for a minute over high heat , to blend the ingredients well together. On a serving plate, arrange the carved peppers and, using tongs, fill each pepper with a handful of haunted tagliolini and place the previously cut top part as a cap. If you have leftover pasta, arrange it around the plate, and your haunted tagliolini in the pepper are ready to be served! Happy Halloween!
Store the haunted tagliolini in the pepper in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to one day.
You can freeze the tagliolini raw. For freezing, place the pasta nests well spaced on a tray and then put them in the freezer to harden for a couple of hours. Once well hardened, place them in freezer bags and put them back in the freezer. When you need them, cook them directly from frozen in boiling water and proceed as per the recipe.
If you like, instead of the Spaghetti with Bell Pepper Cream and Octopus , you can use a fresh tomato and basil sauce to dress the squid ink tagliolini, simple but very tasty and it will certainly not clash with the squid ink.

