name:
Apple and Carrot Cake
ingredients:
Green apples: 2
Carrots: 1cup(100 g)- grated
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Type 00 flour: 2.6cups(325 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(225 g)
Vegetable oil: ⅓cup(80 g)
Eggs: 2
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1pinch
Apples: 1- red
Carrots: 1
Cinnamon sticks: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the apple and carrot cake, start by preparing the acidulated water to prevent the apples from browning once you've sliced them: squeeze the juice of 1 lemon , strain it, then pour it into two bowls with cold water. Rinse the green apples under fresh running water and then peel them ; cut an apple into quarters and remove the core with an apple corer .
Cut the apple into cubes , placing them in the bowl with water and lemon as you cut them, and then take the second apple, slice it into thin slices , also putting them in water and lemon .
Wash and peel the carrots, then grate them and set aside. In a mixer, place the sifted flour together with the baking powder and then add a pinch of salt .
Pour in the sugar , ground cinnamon, and milk in a slow stream , then turn on the mixer until you get a thick and homogeneous mixture .
In a separate small bowl, separate the egg yolks from the egg whites, setting the latter aside; beat the yolks with an electric mixer and add them to the mixture you obtained along with the grated carrot .
Add the well-drained apple cubes from the acidulated water and then the oil in a slow stream , stirring well with a spatula to combine all the ingredients. In a separate bowl, beat the reserved egg whites with an electric mixer or hand whisk ;
when the egg whites have become white and foamy, incorporate them into the mixture stirring with the spatula from the bottom upwards . At this point, butter and line a 9-inch diameter cake pan with parchment paper and then cover the entire base with the thin apple slices (well-drained from water and lemon) side by side, covering the whole surface evenly . Once finished, gently pour the mixture .
Level the batter well with the help of a spatula and then bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 60 minutes (or 300°F for 50 minutes if using a convection oven): if the surface of the cake darkens too much, cover it with parchment paper or aluminum halfway through baking. Once cooked , remove from the oven and let it rest in the mold for 5 minutes; then remove it and place it on a wire rack to cool completely. Now you can proceed to decorate: rinse the red apple under fresh running water, cut it in half without peeling it, and then into slices .
Once the apple is sliced , take the carrot and use a peeler to make very thin slices . When the cake has cooled completely, decorate it as you like with the red apple slices, the carrot, and the cinnamon stick . Finally, serve and enjoy the apple and carrot cake.
Store the apple and carrot cake under a glass dome for 2-3 days, or covered with plastic wrap. The cake can be frozen if you have used all fresh, non-defrosted ingredients.
Here's a useful tip for preserving apples: cut them at the last moment because they tend to turn brown in a very short time; if necessary, you can soak them in cold water with the juice of a lemon.

