name:
Broccoli Flans with Goat Cheese Sauce
ingredients:
Broccoli: 3.3lbs(1.5 kg)
White pepper: to taste- to grind fresh
Fine salt: to taste
Eggs: 2
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- to grate
Butter: - for the molds
Whole milk: 1.1cups(250 ml)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(25 g)
Nutmeg: 1pinch- to grate
Goat: 0.55lb(250 g)
Whole milk: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the broccoli flans, start by cleaning the broccoli: separate the florets from the stalks , wash them, and set aside. Peel the stalks and cut them into pieces. Boil the broccoli in plenty of boiling water , then drain the vegetables and let them sit in a colander so that all excess water disappears .
Pass the broccoli through a food mill (except for a few florets to set aside for garnish) and collect the puree in a bowl. Meanwhile, prepare the bechamel by melting the butter in a saucepan, adding the flour, and letting it brown over moderate heat for a few moments; at this point, add the milk and stir over low heat until the sauce thickens, then add salt and grated nutmeg , and turn off the heat. Add the bechamel to the broccoli puree
the grated cheese and the two egg yolks (set aside the egg whites); mix the ingredients, then adjust for salt and pepper. Beat the egg whites until stiff peaks form and gently fold them into the broccoli mixture with a rubber spatula , being careful not to deflate the preparation.
Butter the molds and fill them with the obtained mixture; place a pan that can hold the molds on the stove and fill it with water up to one-third of its height: when the water boils, turn off the heat, immerse the molds in the bain-marie , and bake in a preheated oven at 356°F for about 40 minutes. Ten minutes before the end of cooking, prepare the goat cheese sauce: put the cheese in pieces in a saucepan over very low heat and add a little milk , just enough to dissolve the goat cheese and form a more or less dense cream, depending on taste. Salt, add freshly ground white pepper , and stir until you get a smooth cream without lumps. Remove the molds from the oven and, using tongs or potholders, immerse them in a cold water bath for a few seconds to cool them quickly. Turn the molds over onto serving plates to extract the small flans. Sprinkle the broccoli flans with the goat cheese sauce and garnish the plates with the reserved boiled florets. Serve immediately.
Leftover broccoli flans will be delicious even the next day! Store them in the refrigerator in the molds covered with aluminum foil; when ready to use, unmold them and heat them in the microwave, then serve them accompanied by the cheese sauce. Instead of preparing many small molds, you can opt for a single large mold, varying the cooking time based on the chosen mold. Instead of goat cheese, you can opt for another cheese of your liking, such as taleggio, gorgonzola, etc.

