name:
Chocolate mousse with a hint of vanilla
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 12.3oz(350 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2cups(500 ml)
Vanilla bean: 1
Gelatin in sheets: 0.1oz(4 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate mousse with a hint of vanilla, soak the gelatin sheets in a bowl with cold water for 10 minutes . Chop the dark chocolate with a knife and place it in a large bowl .
Split the vanilla pod lengthwise and extract the seeds by scraping it with a small knife . Put a saucepan with milk on the stove along with the seeds and the whole vanilla pod .
Let it infuse until the milk is about to boil, then remove it . Squeeze the gelatin sheets with your hands and add them to the hot milk to dissolve completely.
At this point, turn off the heat and gradually pour the hot milk over the chopped chocolate and stir with a spatula until completely melted. Let everything cool down, then whip the cream ;
add the whipped cream gradually to the cooled chocolate mixture , mixing from bottom to top to prevent it from deflating ; continue stirring until you achieve a smooth and homogeneous consistency .

Cover the mousse with cling wrap in contact and let it chill in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours. After the required time, place the mousse into a pastry bag with a star tip and pipe it into small glasses that you can decorate with small tufts: your chocolate mousse with a hint of vanilla is ready to be served and enjoyed !
You can keep your chocolate mousse with a hint of vanilla covered with cling wrap for up to 5 days in the refrigerator. It can be frozen and thawed in the refrigerator: consume it within 1 day.
Mousse, what a delight! It feels like a small fluffy cloud that caresses the palate! If you want to make a mousse with milk chocolate or white chocolate instead of dark chocolate, just a simple move: in the first case, you will need to add 2 g of gelatin sheets, in the second 4 g. And why not try flavoring the mousse with a bit of orange zest? I assure you that the chocolate-citrus combination will not disappoint you!

