name:
Red ravioli with tomato
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste- to sprinkle over the ravioli
Eggs: 2
Tomato paste: 2tsp(10 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Chives: to taste
Thyme: 4sprigs
Sage: 4sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time of the fresh pasta

instructions:
To prepare the red ravioli with tomato, place the flour on a work surface in a well, and add the eggs and the tomato paste in the center. Mix with the help of a fork, gradually incorporating the flour .
Knead the mixture with your hands until you get a smooth and elastic dough . Cover the pasta with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the filling for the red ravioli with tomato: place the ricotta, grated cheese, and hand-chopped basil in a mixer , season with salt and pepper, and blend until the ingredients are combined. Transfer the mixture to a piping bag .
Roll out the pasta using a pasta machine , starting from the thickest setting, folding and turning it with each pass, until you reach the thinnest setting . Trim the sheets and pipe mounds of filling on one side of the sheet .
With a small brush, moisten the edges with water to ensure the pasta sticks well and the ravioli doesn't open during cooking. Then fold the sheet and apply slight pressure to ensure the two sheets adhere perfectly . Use a pasta cutter to shape your red ravioli with tomato into half-moons and place them on a tray sprinkled with semolina flour . If you want them round, overlap the sheets and cut with a pasta cutter.
Blanch the ravioli in salted boiling water, drain them, and toss them in a pan where you have melted a pat of butter (13-14). Finish by sprinkling with chopped aromatic herbs and a pinch of black pepper, and serve hot .
Consume the red ravioli with tomato right after making them. If desired, you can freeze them raw: for freezing, place the tray with the ravioli in the freezer to harden for a couple of hours. Once well hardened, put them in freezer bags, preferably in portions, and place them back in the freezer. When you need to use them, boil them directly from frozen in boiling water and proceed as per the recipe.
Making fresh pasta at home is a lot of fun; try coloring the dough differently each time: with saffron for yellow dough, with squid ink for black dough, with beetroot for pink dough, and so on. If you can't find durum wheat flour, use more common soft wheat flours like all-purpose or cake flour!
Durum wheat flour, rather than soft wheat (commonly all-purpose or cake flour), is particularly suitable for homemade pasta preparations, as it is a very strong flour that ensures even for more elaborate doughs, like filled pasta, it won't tear, allowing the filling to stay inside!

