name:
How to make butter at home
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: 2cups(500 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare butter at home, pour the cream, cold from the refrigerator, into a stand mixer with a well-chilled bowl (we recommend putting the bowl in the refrigerator at least half an hour before using it). Start the stand mixer, begin to whip the cream and, when it is whipped to stiff peaks, continue beating the mixture until the fats have completely separated from the liquids and the cream, now turned into butter, has taken on a yellowish color: it will take about 20 minutes. When the fats (i.e., the butter) completely stick to the beaters, turn off the stand mixer, remove the mixture, and transfer it to a strainer placed inside a bowl. Using a spatula, remove all the buttermilk that formed during processing .
and transfer it to a jug (you will obtain about 9 oz, which can be stored for 1-2 days in the refrigerator and used for making cakes instead of milk). Now squeeze the butter very well with your hands to allow the liquid contained in it to completely escape: this operation is very important because it allows the butter to last longer and prevents it from going rancid and oxidizing. Finally, shape the butter as you prefer... and voilà! You have made your "homemade" stick of butter .
If completely dried of buttermilk, homemade butter can be stored for about a month, closed in an airtight container and placed in the refrigerator. It is possible to freeze the butter to make it last longer. To store the buttermilk, put it in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap for 1-2 days.
For making butter at home, it is necessary to use very fresh cream. If you use an electric beater instead of a stand mixer, the processing time of the cream will be longer. Homemade butter is excellent for all preparations, but it is also good to enjoy plain, spread, for example, on a slice of bread, adding some jam or simple sugar (like old-fashioned snacks...). Homemade butter, unlike commercial butter, has a more delicate, almost sweet taste; if you prefer, you can enhance its flavor by kneading it well with finely chopped salt. Additionally, or alternatively, it can be flavored to your liking (see the flavored butter sheet). If used without flavors or salt, it is ideal for the preparation of leavened desserts where you do not want the aroma of butter to prevail. By using buttermilk instead of milk for making leavened doughs, you will obtain very soft and tasty desserts.

