name:
Waldorf Salad
ingredients:
White celery: 2cups(200 g)
Granny Smith apples: 7oz(200 g)
Greek yogurt: ¾cup(180 g)
Lemon juice: 2tsp(10 g)
Walnut kernels: ⅓cup(50 g)
Acacia honey: 2tbsp(35 g)
Mayonnaise: 0.67cup(150 g)
White pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 3 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the Waldorf Salad, start by cleaning the celeriac. First, peel the celeriac , wash it well, and cut it into julienne strips . Then blanch it in plenty of boiling salted water ,
for about 2-3 minutes , drain it well , and pat it dry with kitchen paper or a clean towel .
At this point, set it aside, and in the meantime, start preparing the dressing for the Waldorf Salad. In a large bowl, mix Greek yogurt with mayonnaise, then add honey , lemon juice , salt, and white pepper, and blend everything with a whisk .
Once the dressing is ready, peel the apple, remove the core with the appropriate tool , and then also cut it into julienne strips ; place the chopped apple in a bowl and to prevent it from turning brown, add half a lemon, squeezing the juice and leaving it in the water .
At this point, coarsely chop the walnuts and start assembling your salad. In a large bowl, pour in the apples and celeriac , then add the freshly prepared sauce .
Mix well and adjust with salt and pepper ; finally, add the chopped walnuts , mix again, and serve your Waldorf salad .
It's best to consume the Waldorf Salad immediately after preparation; alternatively, you can store it in the refrigerator for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
The choice of apples to use for preparing the Waldorf Salad can be made according to personal taste, ranging from the green, tart, and crunchy Granny Smith to the sweet and fragrant Red Delicious, to the softer and tart Renetta. Generally, a rather tart apple is used to create a contrast of flavors with the already sweet celeriac.
Try replacing Greek yogurt with sour cream!
In 1893, the Waldorf Salad was served at a private reception at the hotel, and in 1896 it appeared in “The Cook Book by Oscar The Waldorf.” In the “Rector Cook Book” of 1928, the version with walnuts was officially included, thus becoming one of the canonical ingredients. This salad became so famous that it was mentioned by Cole Porter in a song, You’re the Top, where among a «you’re the Louvre Museum» and a «you’re a Shakespeare's sonnet» he also included a «you’re the Waldorf Salad, you’re the top!»

