name:
Nachos
ingredients:
Yellow corn flour: 2cups(250 g)- precooked (for tortillas)
Water: 1cup(250 g)- warm
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: 0.67cup(150 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Cheddar cheese: 9oz(250 g)
Jalapeno peppers: 2

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 5 min. of dough resting

instructions:
To make the nachos, start by preparing the tortillas: pour the pre-cooked cornmeal into a bowl with the salt and warm water , then mix everything with a spoon .
Continue combining the ingredients in the bowl with your hands , then transfer the mixture to your work surface and knead until you get a smooth and even consistency .
Divide the dough into 5 portions of about 3.5 oz each , shape each piece into a round shape , and wrap them in plastic wrap . Let them rest at room temperature for 5 minutes.
After this time, place the first piece of dough on a sheet of parchment paper and flatten it with your hands , then cover with another sheet of parchment paper and roll it out with a rolling pin until you form a very thin sheet . Don't worry if it tends to break; you can reuse the scraps, being careful to cover the dough while waiting so it doesn't dry out. Use a pastry cutter or a bowl with a diameter of 5 inches to cut the sheet .
Cut the sheet into quarters first and then into eighths to get 8 equal triangles . Place the triangles on a tray lined with parchment paper and proceed in the same way to roll out the other dough pieces, always being careful to keep the dough you're not working on covered. You can stack the triangles on the tray as you cut them.
Move on to cooking: in a large pan, heat about ¾ inch of vegetable oil to 356°F, then add a few triangles at a time . After a couple of minutes, turn them with a slotted spoon and fry for another 2 minutes. Drain the nachos on paper towels and let them cool completely . At this point, the nachos can be enjoyed plain or seasoned!
To bake the nachos, place the corn triangles on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , then brush them with some peanut oil . Bake in a preheated fan oven at 374°F for 13 minutes, then remove from the oven and let cool . Your baked nachos are ready to be enjoyed or seasoned!
To make cheese nachos, finely chop the cheddar and slice the chili pepper into rings . Arrange the nachos on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and garnish with the jalapeno rings .
Sprinkle the nachos evenly with the chopped cheddar . Preheat the oven to grill mode at 410°F and bake for 5 minutes or until the cheese melts . Serve your cheese nachos while hot !
Unseasoned nachos can be stored for 2-3 days at room temperature, away from moisture.
Cheese nachos can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days; it is recommended to reheat them well in the oven before serving.
The dough for nachos is very delicate and tends to dry out and break easily, so it's important to wrap it well in plastic wrap when you're not working on it: this way you'll be able to reuse even the scraps.
Let the nachos cool completely after cooking to enjoy them at their crunchiest!
Looking for other tasty sauces to serve with nachos? Try the Zucchini Guacamole , a surprising variant without avocado! You can also enrich your appetizer buffet with some tasty How to make popcorn .

