name:
Mushroom Quesadillas
ingredients:
Champignon mushrooms: 4cups(300 g)
Edam cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
White onions: 1
Cluster tomatoes: 2
Green Peperoncino: 1pinch
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Coriander: 0.4oz(10 g)- fresh
Flour tortillas: 4

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the mushroom quesadillas, start with the How to Clean Porcini Mushrooms ; with a sharp knife with a smooth blade, remove the earthy part on the stem, gently scraping it until all traces of dirt are removed . If the mushrooms are fairly clean, remove the few remaining dirt residues with a brush or with a cotton cloth, if they are still very dirty, quickly pass them under a stream of cold running water. Once cleaned, cut the whole mushrooms lengthwise and set aside . Wash the tomatoes under plenty of fresh running water, cut them into 1 cm (about 0.4 inches) slices and then into cubes .
Finely chop the fresh coriander with a knife , then cut the onion into thin slices of about 4 mm (approximately 0.16 inches) . Put a non-stick pan on the heat with a drizzle of oil ,
and stew the onion for 5 minutes . Add the mushrooms, cook for another 5 minutes, then add the chili powder .
Add the diced tomatoes along with the coriander and season with salt and
pepper to taste . After the necessary time has passed , turn off the heat and assemble the quesadillas. Take the tortillas (you can make them with our flour tortillas recipe) and fill half with the filling you have prepared, distributing it evenly .
Grate the cheese and sprinkle it over the filling , then fold the tortillas in half into a half-moon shape .
Heat the quesadillas in a non-stick pan for 2-3 minutes on each side, turning them gently . Once ready, cut your mushroom quesadillas in half and serve them hot .
You can store the mushroom quesadillas in the refrigerator for up to 3-4 days and then reheat them in a pan before consuming.
Want to make your quesadillas even richer? Add grilled peppers or crumbled sausage sautéed in a pan to the filling! You can make them with either corn or wheat tortillas.

