name:
Stuffed Omelette Roll
ingredients:
Eggs: 8- whole
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste- for the baking tray
Prosciutto crudo: 4.2oz(120 g)- sliced
Arugula: 1 ½cup(30 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 8oz(230 g)- smoked
Rocket pesto: ½cup(100 g)
Arugula: 0.9oz(25 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1tbsp(15 g)- to be grated
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 3tbsp(15 g)- grated
Pine nuts: 1.3tbsp(12 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¾tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour of cooling

instructions:
To prepare the stuffed omelette roll, start by preparing the Arugula Pesto , which will be used for the filling. Wash the arugula very well under plenty of fresh running water, dry it, and place it in the mixer cup : add the pine nuts , the grated Grana Padano cheese .
Then add the Pecorino cheese , the peeled and whole garlic clove , and the salt .
Start blending everything at low speed and gradually add the remaining extra virgin olive oil in a stream until you obtain a well-blended and fluid cream . Once the arugula pesto is prepared, set it aside and start preparing the omelette: beat the eggs in a bowl .
And add the salt , the pepper , and the grated cheese .
Take a baking sheet about 13x10 inches, line it with parchment paper, and brush it with a little oil . Pour the mixture and place the omelette to bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 15 minutes or at 320°F for 5-8 minutes in a fan oven .
When the omelette is cooked, remove the baking sheet , place some plastic wrap on a cutting board ; invert the baking sheet onto it and gently remove the parchment paper, then let it cool .
When the omelette is cold, fill it by placing the slices of scamorza cheese and sprinkle with the arugula pesto you prepared earlier . Then cover with fresh arugula leaves previously washed .
And finally finish with a layer of prosciutto . Roll the omelette and wrap it tightly with plastic wrap , trying to tighten it just enough to make it compact and to keep its shape.
Then place the stuffed omelette roll in the refrigerator so it compacts and flavors for at least 1 hour. After the necessary time, gently remove the plastic wrap from the roll , cut it into slices , and your stuffed omelette roll will be ready to be served !
You can store the stuffed omelette roll in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, instead of arugula pesto, you can use basil or marjoram pesto, or replace the scamorza slices with another sliced cheese and also use cooked ham instead of prosciutto.

