name:
Rice Balls
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(330 g)
Water: 2.8cups(660 g)
Cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)- grated
Eggs: 1
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: 1pinch
Parsley: to taste- minced
Eggs: 2
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Breadcrumbs: 0.8cup(100 g)
Peanut seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the rice balls, first cut the mozzarella into cubes and let it drain in a fine-mesh colander for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, rinse the rice several times until the water is clear, then put it in a pot and add water to completely cover the rice . Cook over low heat, stirring occasionally , until the rice has absorbed all the water.
Transfer it to a bowl, add the butter , and stir to melt it . Adjust with salt .
Add a pinch of pepper , grated cheese , and an egg .
Stir to combine all the ingredients . Wash and dry some parsley, chop it with a knife , and add it to the rice. Stir once more .
Take a handful of rice, place a mozzarella cube in the center , and shape into a ball , repeating the steps until all the rice is used. In a dish, crack two eggs, add a pinch of salt, and beat vigorously with a fork , arrange the flour and breadcrumbs in separate dishes.
Roll the balls first in the egg , then in the flour , again in the egg , and finally in the breadcrumbs. During these steps, ensure the entire surface of the balls is coated.
Place the balls on a plate until the ingredients are finished; you'll get about 15 . Heat the peanut oil to 302°F, fry the balls, a few at a time, and lift them with a slotted spoon when they are golden . Place them on a paper towel to remove excess oil. The rice balls are ready to be enjoyed .
Rice balls can be stored in the fridge, in a closed container, for 2 days. Before serving, warm them in the oven for a few minutes. They can be frozen in suitable bags.
You can also bake the rice balls in a fan oven at 356°F for 20 minutes, turning them halfway through. Rice balls are an anti-waste recipe; you can use leftover rice from a previous meal to make them. For a more intense flavor, you can replace some or all of the grated cheese with grated Pecorino Romano.
You can personalize them by adding chopped vegetables, mushrooms, tuna, and much more to the rice.

