name:
Salad with Scamorza and Grilled Vegetables
ingredients:
Zucchini: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggplant: 1lb(450 g)
Red peppers: 2 ¾cups(425 g)
Yellow peppers: 425
Cluster tomatoes: 7oz(200 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 10.6oz(300 g)- smoked
Mixed salad: 3cups(150 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the salad with scamorza and Grilled Vegetables , wash all the vegetables under plenty of fresh running water and dry them. Slice the zucchini and eggplants into rounds about 1/4 inch thick (2-3);
take the peppers, remove the top part, cut them in half , then use a knife to remove the white filaments and seeds inside . Cut them into slices, then into rather large cubes and set aside .
Remove the stem from the tomatoes and slice them into rounds also about 1/4 inch thick . Take the scamorza and slice it lengthwise , then heat a grill on the stove.
When the grill is hot, cook the vegetables a little at a time: place the diced peppers side by side , grilling them for 5 minutes and turning them with kitchen tongs for even cooking , then place the zucchini rounds on the grill
for 3 minutes and proceed with the eggplants for another 3 minutes (14-15). Remember to always turn the vegetables for even cooking.
Finally, finish with the tomatoes, grilling them for 4 minutes until they are well grilled . Cut a sheet of parchment paper to the size of the grill and place it to proceed with cooking the scamorza. Distribute the slices and grill them for a few seconds . At this point, place the mixed salad on a serving plate along with the vegetables;
adjust the salt and pepper and season with olive oil. Finally, you can serve and enjoy your salad with scamorza and grilled vegetables .
You can store the salad with scamorza and grilled vegetables in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2-3 days without dressing.
If you don't like the taste of smoked cheese, you can replace the smoked scamorza with plain scamorza or with tomino cheese.

