name:
Hot dog
ingredients:
Whole milk: (150 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: 3 ½tsp(15 g)
Fine salt: ¾tsp(4 g)
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)- softened
Brewer's yeast: 0.8tsp(3 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)- at room temperature
Frankfurter: 5- for hot dog
Ketchup: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Mayonnaise: ¼cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 5
Cost: Very low
Note + 180 minutes of rising time

instructions:
To prepare the hot dogs, start by making the bread. In the bowl of the stand mixer, add the sifted flour, dry yeast , and room temperature water gradually . Knead the ingredients with the dough hook for a few minutes. Then add the sugar to the bowl and continue kneading to allow the ingredients to blend.
Now gradually add the room temperature milk ; once absorbed, add the salt . Continue kneading with the hook until you obtain a soft and elastic dough; the dough should wrap around the hook and easily detach from the sides of the mixer bowl .
Finally, add the butter in small pieces, a little at a time, waiting for one piece to be absorbed before adding the next , and continue kneading to incorporate it with the other ingredients until you obtain a soft and homogeneous dough . Turn the dough out onto a lightly buttered work surface and shape it into a sphere .
Place it in a large bowl and let it rise, covered with plastic wrap, in a turned-off oven with the light on for 2-3 hours, until it doubles in volume . Once the dough has risen, transfer it back to the mixer and divide it into 5 equal parts .
Then take a piece and work it briefly to give it an elongated shape (about 6 inches) . Repeat the operation for all five pieces. Then place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, at least 2 inches apart from each other . Now lightly brush your buns with some milk .
Let them rise for about 40 minutes at room temperature and then bake them in a preheated static oven at 355°F for 20-25 minutes or in a convection oven at 320°F for 10-15 minutes until they achieve a golden color , remembering to turn them occasionally for even cooking. Once they are baked, take them out of the oven, let them cool completely, then cut them in half lengthwise to form a sort of pocket. In the meantime, proceed with preparing the sausages. Take a grill and cook the sausages for 10 minutes over high heat, turning them occasionally to ensure they cook evenly . You will notice the sausage browning and acquiring the same grill marks.
Then spread the mayonnaise inside the pocket . Insert a cooked sausage into the bread pocket and, as a final touch, generously sprinkle with ketchup . Your hot dogs are now ready to be enjoyed!
The finished and filled hot dog should be consumed immediately.
The bread you made for the hot dogs can be stored covered with transparent plastic wrap in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
The buns can be frozen raw and stored in the freezer for up to a month.
If you like stronger and slightly spicy flavors, you can also add a drizzle of mustard to your hot dog.
For a more elaborate and spiced flavor to serve to more discerning palates, add sauerkraut inside the bun: this version of hot dogs will win over even adults.
It is said that the hot dog was born thanks to the ingenuity of an American sausage vendor who, to better sell his products in stadiums where they were widely consumed, introduced them into oblong buns, making them easier to distribute; along with the sausage, there was a spicy red sauce, and for this reason, they were called red hots. In 1903, a cartoonist named "Tad" (T.A. Dorgan) changed the fate of the name by ironically depicting a hot dog where, instead of a sausage, there was a dachshund; he did so by playing on the fact that both the dog and the sausage were long, red, and German, calling the subject in question "hot dog." Since then, the expression hot dog became and remained very popular.

