name:
Tagliolini with double cuttlefish ink
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Cuttlefish ink: 1.6tsp(8 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Water: ½tbsp(6 g)- at room temperature
Octopi: 0.75lb(350 g)
Cuttlefish ink: ¼tbsp(4 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Tomato paste: ½tbsp(7 g)
White wine: 3tbsp(40 g)
Anchovies: 0.5oz(15 g)- in oil
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: 1 ¾tsp(5 g)
Seafood: 2.5oz(75 g)- waste (bones, heads, fish trimmings)
Water: 9 ½tbsp(140 ml)
Onions: 0.4oz(10 g)
Leeks: 0.4oz(10 g)
Butter: ½tbsp(7 g)
White wine: 0.3oz(8 g)
Parsley: 1tuft
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 75 minutes to prepare the fish stock (alternatively, cooking water can be used)

instructions:
To prepare tagliolini with double cuttlefish ink, start with the preparation of the fish broth. In a pan, sauté the sliced leek, quartered onion, and 1 clove of garlic in a little butter for 5 minutes. Add the scraps and let them brown, then add the white wine . When the wine has completely evaporated, add the water, pepper, and parsley, adjusting the salt. Let it simmer for 60 minutes on low heat, skimming occasionally with a skimmer . Once cooked, strain the broth through a fine mesh sieve to remove the fish scraps .
Now proceed to the pasta preparation. Take a large bowl and place the sifted flour in it. Add the eggs and the cuttlefish ink to the flour. Initially, use a fork to mix the dough well.
When the eggs and cuttlefish ink are incorporated into the dough, use your hands to mix all the ingredients. Add room temperature water to better unify the dough . Knead well until the mixture is lump-free. Now form a ball with the dough and cover it with plastic wrap . Let it rest at room temperature for about half an hour.
Then proceed to prepare the sauce: take a pan, pour the oil, and sauté a whole clove of garlic . Once well browned, remove it from the pan. Add the anchovies and let them melt by adding a little broth .
Now take your cuttlefish (already cleaned and washed thoroughly under running water). Remove the tentacles, then cut them into slices . Place them in the pan and sauté for a few minutes over high heat. Then, deglaze your cuttlefish with white wine . Adjust salt and pepper and moisten with the fish broth .
Add the tomato paste and cuttlefish ink to the cuttlefish. Mix, then cover the pan with a lid and turn off the heat .
Now dedicate yourself to preparing the cuttlefish ink egg pasta. Take back the dough, roll it out using the pasta machine, moving from the lowest to the highest setting to obtain a very thin sheet, about 0.04 inches . Take the pasta sheets obtained and pass them with some re-milled semolina flour (or with all-purpose flour). Roll the sheet forming rolls and cut them maintaining a width of about 0.08 inches . You'll obtain your tagliolini.
Immerse your cuttlefish ink tagliolini for a few seconds in a pot with plenty of salted water to taste then drain them immediately. Pour the tagliolini into the sauce you have cooked with the cuttlefish and mix well to let the sauce absorb into the tagliolini . Finally, decorate your tagliolini with double cuttlefish ink with a few sprigs of thyme and... enjoy!
Tagliolini with double cuttlefish ink should be eaten hot, freshly prepared. However, they can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day in an airtight container. You can freeze the tagliolini raw. For freezing, place the pasta nests well spaced on a tray and then put them in the freezer to harden for a couple of hours. Once they are well hardened, place them in freezer bags and put them back in the freezer. When you need to use them, boil them directly from frozen in boiling water and proceed as per the recipe.
You can also use larger cuttlefish; however, remember that in this case the meat will need to cook a bit longer to become tender.
If you have bought uncleaned cuttlefish with the ink sac inside, ask your fishmonger to clean them and keep the cuttlefish ink sac aside for you.
If you don't have time to prepare the fish broth, you can use cooking water or vegetable broth instead. To give the dish a more intense flavor, you can add tomato puree and garnish with fresh parsley.

