name:
Bigoli in red pepper sauce
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Eggs: 4
Red peppers: 4cups(600 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.67cup(150 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Marjoram: 5leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the peppers

instructions:
To cook bigoli in red pepper sauce, start by preparing the sauce. Wash and dry your red peppers, place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, and bake in a preheated static oven at 482 °F (250 °C) for about 25 minutes. Turn the red peppers occasionally until you see that the skin of the peppers dries and starts to peel away from the flesh . When the skin begins to peel away from the flesh, remove the red peppers from the oven and place them in a food bag . Close the bag and let the red peppers sweat until they are warm. At this point, you can peel the skin off the red peppers. Once this operation is done, cut the peppers in half, remove the green stem, the white filaments, and the internal seeds. Place the flesh obtained in the cup of a mixer .
Then add the ricotta and the extra virgin olive oil. Adjust with salt and pepper . Then activate the mixer blades and blend all the ingredients until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream .
Now move on to the bigoli by preparing the fresh pasta. In a bowl, pour the sifted flour. Shape the flour into a fountain, create a crater in the center, and pour in the eggs and adjust with a pinch of salt. Begin to mix the eggs with the flour and gradually incorporate the flour into the eggs . When the eggs and flour are well combined, continue kneading energetically by hand for at least 10 minutes. You need to obtain a soft and homogeneous dough, which you will shape into a ball. Wrap your ball with plastic wrap .
The dough obtained must rest for at least 30 minutes at room temperature. After 30 minutes of resting the dough ball, take it and divide it into smaller pieces. Place a piece of dough into the basket of the special machine to produce bigoli. Start the machine and create the bigoli . Arrange the bigoli obtained on a floured surface so they do not stick . Repeat the operation for all the dough pieces. Now move on to cooking the bigoli. Boil them in plenty of salted water .
Now in a pan, warm the pepper sauce with a drizzle of oil . Drain your bigoli well and season them with the pepper sauce . Add the final touch: decorate your bigoli in red pepper sauce with marjoram leaves. Serve the bigoli in red pepper sauce hot .
The dish should be consumed as soon as it is cooked. It can be stored for a maximum of 1 day in the refrigerator in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of ricotta, you can add thick cream or robiola with the peppers. For those with a sweet tooth, ricotta can be replaced with mascarpone.
Want a yellow sauce? Use yellow peppers!
Extra tip: one or two basil leaves will add a fresh flavor to your sauce.

