name:
Crostini with Champignon Mushroom Pâté
ingredients:
Champignon mushrooms: 3 ½cups(250 g)
Walnut kernels: 1.5oz(40 g)
White wine: 2tbsp(30 g)
Robiola cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Shallot: 2oz(50 g)
Thyme: to taste
Salt: to taste
Pepper: to taste
Baguette: 7oz(200 g)- (or Tuscan bread)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the crostini with Champignon mushroom pâté, start by preparing the bruschetta. Take the baguette and cut it into slices about 3/4 inch thick . You should obtain about 12 slices. Place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and drizzle them with a little olive oil . Grill them at 464°F for about 2-3 minutes until they have the typical golden color. Then remove the bruschetta from the oven and set aside.
Proceed with cleaning the mushrooms, removing the earthy part of the mushroom stem: scrape well with a small knife to remove any traces of soil. Then remove the terminal part of the stem . If the mushrooms don't have much soil, you can also help eliminate it with a small brush. Alternatively, quickly place them under a jet of cold running water for a few seconds and immediately dry them with a cotton cloth, passing it over the entire surface of the mushroom so they don't absorb water . Once cleaned, cut the mushrooms lengthwise into thin slices and set aside.
Finely chop the shallot , place it in a wide, non-stick-bottomed pot drizzled with a little olive oil . Sauté it over low heat for 5-6 minutes, stirring to promote even cooking .
Add the mushrooms , deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate. Then season with salt and pepper.
Finally, add the thyme leaves . Let them cook for about 10-12 minutes over moderate heat. Then let them cool slightly and transfer the cooked mushrooms to a tall, narrow container where you will also add the robiola cheese and walnut kernels .
Blend the ingredients with an immersion blender until you obtain a homogeneous and sufficiently compact cream. Then take the bruschetta and spread the mushroom pâté on top , then serve your crostini with Champignon mushroom pâté !
It is advisable to consume the crostini with Champignon mushroom pâté as soon as they are ready. If you do not consume them all, you can store them in the refrigerator covered with clear plastic wrap for up to 4-5 days.
It is not advisable to freeze the preparation.
We used the baguette because it has the ideal shape for crostini, but you can use the bread you prefer! A suggestion to personalize the crostini: flavor them with herbs, like marjoram or parsley!

