name:
Lasagna with pesto cream, ricotta, and spinach
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Nutmeg: 1pinch
Salt: 1pinch
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(100 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Coarse salt: 1pinch
Basil: 2 ½cups(50 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: 7 ½tbsp(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(15 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Spinach: 16 ½cups(500 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Pine nuts: 1 ½tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Smoked scamorza cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 7oz(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the lasagna with pesto cream, ricotta, and spinach, start with the Genoese pesto (Pesto alla genovese) . After selecting the best basil leaves and washing and drying them very gently, place them in a blender with the pine nuts , then add the oil and the Parmesan cheese , and finally blend until you obtain the pesto cream .
Then move on to preparing the Béchamel sauce . Make a roux by pouring the flour into the melted butter , and after mixing well over medium heat until the base turns a hazelnut color, pour in the milk that has been set aside to warm and already seasoned with salt and grated nutmeg . Finally, continue cooking over low heat, stirring vigorously to prevent it from burning at the bottom, for another 5-6 minutes until the béchamel sauce thickens .
Rinse the spinach to remove soil residues and then place them in a pan where you have browned the garlic with the oil , cooking over high heat for a few minutes, just enough to soften them slightly. Now that you have all the ingredients ready, you can proceed to assemble the lasagna. Grease a 12x8 inch rectangular baking dish with a little oil and then pour some béchamel sauce . This will create a base that will prevent the pasta from sticking to the bottom.
Add a spoonful of pesto and spread it over the entire surface as you did with the béchamel sauce , and finally place a first layer of pasta to completely cover the base of the dish.
On the pasta, add a bit of béchamel sauce and after spreading it well over the sheet, add some more pesto , and in this case too, spread it evenly, just as you did before. Once you have obtained an even layer, add the slightly pre-cooked spinach .
Work the ricotta with a fork, trying almost to crumble it, and then pour the obtained flakes over the pasta , then add the grated Parmesan cheese and adjust with salt and pepper .
Chop the smoked provola cheese and sprinkle it over the lasagna , and start the process again, beginning with the pasta sheet
and add more béchamel sauce and pesto , then spinach, ricotta, grated Parmesan cheese, salt, pepper, and the chopped smoked provola cheese . Continue in this way until you have 4 layers of lasagna, forming the various layers of pasta by changing the direction in which you place the sheet - first vertically, then horizontally, and so on .
On the last layer, finally add the pine nuts , and then cook in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 20 minutes (or in a fan oven at 320°F for 10 minutes) . If you want a bit of crispiness on the surface, let it cook for another 5 minutes in grill mode to get the lasagna with pesto cream, ricotta, and spinach with an irresistible crispiness!
The lasagna can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 1-2 days when covered with plastic wrap; they can also be frozen either cooked or uncooked, but in this case, make sure the ingredients have never been frozen before.
Try some tasty alternatives like adding zucchini pesto or, instead of pine nuts, try almond flakes!

