name:
Strawberry Bavarian Cream
ingredients:
Whole milk: 0.85cup(200 ml)
Egg yolks: 3
Sugar: ½cup(105 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Lemons: ½
Fine salt: 1pinch
Strawberries: 2.4lbs(1.1 kg)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.6oz(18 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.625cup(150 ml)
Powdered sugar: ¼cup(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + 4 to 6 hours of chilling in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the strawberry Bavarian cream, start with the crème anglaise, which is the base of the dessert: split half a vanilla bean and scrape with the tip of a knife to extract the seeds . Peel the lemon zest, being careful not to remove the white part , and add the two aromas to the saucepan with the milk : heat over low heat until it almost boils, then turn off the heat.
Meanwhile, place the egg yolks in a large bowl, whisk them, then add 65 g (1/3 cup) of granulated sugar gradually while continuing to mix and add a pinch of salt . Work them for a few minutes until you get a homogeneous mixture. Pour the warmed milk over the beaten eggs, filtering it with a fine-mesh strainer .
Mix with a spatula and place the cream to cook in a bain-marie over low heat, always stirring ; the temperature of the cream should never exceed 185°F (85°C) (check with a kitchen thermometer) .
When the cream is ready, pour it into a bowl and place the bowl in a larger one filled with ice : this way, you will immediately cool the cream without affecting its consistency. Stir then remove it from the ice and cover the cream with cling film, making contact to allow it to cool completely. Soak the gelatin sheets in very cold water for at least 10 minutes.
Wash, drain well, and remove the stem from the strawberries, then cut them into pieces and cook them in a pan with 40 g (about 3 tbsps) of granulated sugar over low heat, covered with a lid (14-15).
Blend the cooked strawberries with the sugar and strain the obtained puree . Then transfer it to a saucepan and put it back on low heat .
Drain and squeeze the gelatin sheets and dissolve them in the strawberry coulis , stir with a whisk to dissolve them completely . Let the mixture cool slightly, and add it to the crème anglaise and mix.
Then separately whip 500 ml (about 2 cups) of fresh cream (not too firm) and add it to the strawberry cream and mix well: it should be fluid, creamy, and homogeneous. Then take a bundt pan and wet the inside with cold water. Gently pour the obtained mixture into a 9-inch (22 cm) diameter mold with a 1.5 qt (1.5 lt) capacity .
Cover it with cling film and place it in the refrigerator for at least 4-6 hours (it would be better to prepare it the night before). Then prepare the whipped cream with powdered sugar and place it in a piping bag and in the refrigerator until ready to use.
After the necessary time, remove the Bavarian cream from the refrigerator, immerse the mold up to the edge in hot water for a few seconds , and then gently invert the Bavarian cream onto a serving platter . Decorate the Bavarian cream as desired with dollops of whipped cream all around .
Create dollops on the surface as well . Then decorate with fresh strawberries and mint leaves as desired (32-33).
Store the Bavarian cream in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
If you prefer, you can prepare a strawberry sauce to accompany the Bavarian cream by blending 8.8 oz (250 g) of strawberries, a tablespoon of lemon juice, and sugar (to taste).

