name:
Artichoke and Leek Veloute
ingredients:
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Artichokes: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Leeks: 6.4oz(180 g)
Potatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Thyme: 4sprigs
Homemade bread: 4slices
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the artichoke and leek velouté, you'll need to organize the cleaning and cutting of the vegetables. Start with the How to clean artichokes , but before handling them, protect your hands with latex gloves to avoid them turning black. If you don't have gloves, you can rub your hands well with lemon juice. Another tip is to keep half a lemon at hand to rub on your hands frequently. Prepare a container with water and a little lemon juice where you can immerse the cleaned artichokes to prevent them from turning black. Remove the thicker outer leaves until you reach the tender ones, then, with a knife, cut off the harder tops and also remove the stem . Immerse the artichokes in the water and lemon .
Peel the artichoke stems, removing the more fibrous outer part, then cut them into cubes as well . Cut the artichoke hearts in half, remove the inner choke, and slice them into wedges . Now wash the leek, remove the outer layer, and slice it into thin rings .
Peel the potatoes and cut them first into wedges to make it easier to dice them into small cubes . In a pan drizzled with extra virgin olive oil, add the leek first , and when it is well browned, add the artichoke quarters .
Shortly after, add the stems , then sauté everything for a moment and season with salt and pepper . Add the diced potatoes
and cover the vegetables with most of the broth , cooking over high heat for at least 15-20 minutes. If it dries out too much, add more broth but remember to keep some aside. Once the vegetables are cooked, add the chopped thyme . Now pass the vegetables through a food mill or blend them with an immersion blender to obtain a cream that you need to dilute by adding a little broth at a time until it becomes velvety.
Strain the velouté through a sieve . Just before the velouté is ready, you can prepare the bread croutons: cut the bread into cubes or triangles and distribute them on a baking sheet with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil . Cook them for 3-4 minutes in the grill mode of the oven, or sauté them in a pan until crunchy. Plate the artichoke and leek velouté with the bread croutons : serve it hot.
You can store the velouté in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, sealed in an airtight container. It can also be frozen in the same way.
You can add bacon either to the sauté or as an addition to the bread croutons.
With the addition of cream along with the broth, the velouté will be even richer.

