name:
Fried Artichokes with Mustard
ingredients:
Artichokes: 8
Eggs: 2- medium
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Mustard: 1tsp- powdered
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 1tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The first step in preparing fried artichokes with mustard is to clean the artichokes: remove the tougher outer leaves , and cut off the top of the artichokes and the stem just below the base of the artichoke (click How to clean artichokes to see how) keeping only the heart. To prevent the artichokes from darkening during preparation, sprinkle them with half a lemon .
Then cut each artichoke into eight parts , and once the cleaning is complete, immerse them in acidulated water. After cleaning the artichokes, proceed with the preparation of the batter: in a large bowl put the eggs, add the flour , the salt ,
and the mustard, and with the help of a whisk or mixer, make a batter adding the tablespoon of oil and the teaspoon of baking powder during preparation; if the batter is too thick, add 1 or 2 tablespoons of warm water (otherwise, add a little flour).
Pour the drained and dried artichokes into the batter and let them soak well for a few minutes . Meanwhile, heat the seed oil (or if you prefer olive oil), into which you will dip the various artichoke slices one by one, making sure they do not stick together ; turn them over a few times, so they brown on all surfaces. Depending on the size of the artichoke, they will be ready in 5/7 minutes, then remove them from the oil and place them to drain on kitchen paper ; serve them still hot, possibly sprinkled with a pinch of salt.
Fried artichokes with mustard, like any fried dish, should be eaten hot or warm. Artichokes are not suitable for storage as they develop toxic molecules. Freezing is not recommended.
If you desire a more flavorful and intense preparation, you can replace the teaspoon of mustard powder with one or two tablespoons of mustard cream, choosing the one most suitable for you. If you want to add an extra hint of aroma to your fried artichokes with mustard, you can also add a couple of tablespoons of chopped parsley to the batter.

