name:
Risotto with White Asparagus Cream
ingredients:
White asparagus: 1.1lbs(500 g)- from Bassano del Grappa
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)- approximately
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Mascarpone cheese: ½cup(125 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: 1spoonful- to chop
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Black pepper: to taste
White onions: ½
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the risotto with white asparagus cream, wash the asparagus under running water, then scrape away the tougher outer part (without touching the tips), tie the asparagus with kitchen string , cut off the woody part at the end , and if necessary, even them out with the help of a knife or a peeler. (for all details, refer to the Cooking School How to clean asparagus)
then simmer them for about 20 minutes in salted water in a tall and narrow pot , from which only the tips should protrude, which will cook with the steam from the water itself. After 20 minutes, remove the asparagus from the water and let them drain , then as soon as they are lukewarm, cut off the tips , set them aside and cut the stalks into pieces.
In a pan, place 2 tablespoons of oil and 20 grams (0.7 oz) of butter , then add the chopped asparagus stalks and after a few minutes, stew them with a ladle of vegetable broth ;
At mid-cooking, add half of the asparagus tips (the other half will be used for the final seasoning), once the broth has evaporated, add the mascarpone , allow it to melt well
and then blend everything in a mixer until you obtain a thick cream . In another large pan, place two tablespoons of oil, the remaining butter, add the onion and let it soften for at least 10 minutes.
Add the rice, which you will toast for a few minutes ; at this point, gradually add the vegetable broth , until fully cooked. Five minutes before the end of cooking, add the previously prepared white asparagus cream to the rice , adjust the salt and pepper;
incorporate the reserved asparagus tips , turn off the heat and finally add the chopped parsley (20-21), mix well and serve the risotto with white asparagus cream immediately, sprinkling with grated Grana Padano DOP as desired.
Store the risotto with white asparagus cream in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you don't like or have an intolerance to mascarpone, you can also make this risotto by omitting it; proceed in the exact same way and you will obtain the classic risotto of Bassano del Grappa, typical of the place where the delicate and fragrant white asparagus is grown.

