name:
Ridged sedanini with artichoke cream
ingredients:
Sedanini Rigati pasta: 14oz(400 g)
Artichokes: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (about 6)
Vegetable broth: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Black olives: 1.4oz(40 g)- pitted
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 6tbsp(40 g)
Leeks: 1
Shallot: 1
Grana Padano PDO cheese: to taste- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the ridged sedanini with artichoke cream, start by cleaning the artichokes: remove the stem, and also cut off the toughest tips. Proceed to peel the artichoke , removing the toughest outer leaves, continue until reaching the more tender ones, then cut the artichokes in half and finally into slices .
Peel and chop the shallot , peel and thinly slice the leek . In a saucepan, heat the olive oil, add the shallot and a scant ladle of water or vegetable broth and let it soften for at least 5 minutes.
When the shallot is tender, add the sliced leek and cook for a couple of minutes, then also add the artichokes . Cook over medium heat for 15 minutes or until the artichokes are tender. Once cooked, blend the artichokes with an immersion blender (9-10).
In the meantime, place a pot full of salted water on the stove, bring to a boil and then pour in the ridged sedanini . Cook the pasta until al dente (follow the cooking times indicated on the package, about 10 minutes). When the pasta is cooked, drain it directly into the sauté pan ,
add the pitted black olives and the sun-dried tomatoes preserved in oil, previously drained and dried . Toss the pasta to flavor it, then season with a tablespoon of grated Grana Padano DOP. Your ridged sedanini with artichoke cream is ready, serve them hot .
It is preferable to consume the ridged sedanini with artichoke cream immediately, but if you have leftovers, you can store it in the refrigerator in an airtight container for a couple of days. You can prepare the artichoke cream in advance and store it in the fridge or freeze it.
Do you love tasty ingredients? Try the variant with anchovies: instead of the olives and tomatoes, you can add anchovies preserved in oil, drained and sautéed in the pan, so that as they melt, they release all their flavor!

