name:
Savory cheesecake with pesto and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Taralli (Round breadsticks): 8.8oz(250 g)
Butter: ½cup(125 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1.4cups(350 g)
Cream cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)- (to grate)
Milk: ½cup(100 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cherry tomatoes: 1.67cups(250 g)
Genoese pesto (Basil sauce): ½cup(120 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Sugar: 1tbsp(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low
Note + the resting time in the refrigerator (1 h)

instructions:
To prepare the savory cheesecake with pesto and cherry tomatoes, first focus on preparing the confit cherry tomatoes. Wash the cherry tomatoes and dry them with paper towels or a clean dish towel, then cut them in half . In a pan, pour the oil and add the garlic .
Place the cherry tomatoes in the pan , add the sugar , distributing it evenly over all the cherry tomatoes, and adjust the salt .
Also season with pepper and oregano . Cook on high flame for about 8 minutes, or until the sugar has caramelized . Set aside the confit cherry tomatoes.
To prepare the base, melt the butter , either in the microwave or in a pan on low flame. Put the taralli in a food processor and blend them to a powder .
Transfer the blended taralli into a bowl and pour in the melted butter, then mix until you get a sandy consistency. Pour the mixture into an 8-inch diameter mold , previously buttered and lined with parchment paper. Level with the back of a spoon . Place the mold in the refrigerator to firm up the base.
Soak the gelatin in cold water . In the meantime, prepare the cheese cream: in a bowl, combine the ricotta, cream cheese , and grated Grana Padano DOP .
Adjust the salt and pepper . Mix until you get a homogeneous mixture .
Pour the milk into a saucepan and heat it until almost boiling, remove from heat and add the well-squeezed gelatin . Stir to dissolve it completely . Pour the milk into the bowl with the cheeses .
Mix until you get a fairly liquid and homogeneous cream. Take the mold out of the refrigerator and pour the cream onto the base , tilt the mold to level the cream and place it back in the refrigerator for an hour.
After the resting time, remove the cheesecake from the mold and spread the pesto on the surface . Garnish with the confit cherry tomatoes and a few basil leaves . The savory cheesecake with pesto and cherry tomatoes is ready to be enjoyed!
The savory cheesecake with pesto and cherry tomatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
Instead of basil leaves, you can use arugula.
For a perfect cheesecake presentation, add the basil and confit cherry tomatoes just before serving!

