name:
English Carrot Cake or Carrot Cake
ingredients:
Carrots: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Eggs: 6
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 1.6cups(350 g)
Whole cane sugar: 1 ¾cup(350 g)
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)
Baking soda: 2tsp(10 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1tbsp(8 g)
Egg whites: 5.3tbsp(75 g)- (approximately 2)
Powdered sugar: 1 ¾cup(230 g)
Marzipan: 2.5oz(70 g)
Food coloring: - orange (or red and yellow) as needed
Food coloring: - green as needed

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the English carrot cake, start by preparing the carrots: peel them and finely grate them , you will need to obtain 330 g. Then pour the brown sugar into the bowl of a stand mixer with beaters ,
add the eggs as well and run the machine for at least 10 minutes, until you have a frothy mixture . With the beaters still running, add the oil slowly .
Then stop the mixer, add the sifted flour directly into the bowl and gently mix with a hand whisk , without deflating the mixture. Then add the baking soda ,
the baking powder , the cinnamon powder and gently mix to combine the dry ingredients. Also add the carrots and fold them into the batter .
Transfer the batter into a 28 cm cake pan, previously lined with parchment paper (13-14) and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 50 minutes. Then cover the cake with aluminum foil and bake for another 15 minutes, so the cake's surface won't darken excessively (if using a fan-forced oven, bake at 320°F for 45 minutes). After the baking time, remove your carrot cake from the oven and let it cool.
Only when the cake has completely cooled, proceed to make the frosting. Start whipping the egg whites (with the leftover yolks you could prepare a delicious Pastry cream ) and gradually add the powdered sugar , until you get a smooth and lump-free frosting .
Remove the carrot cake from its pan and place it on a serving dish. Then, using a spoon, spread the frosting on the cake and use a spatula to cover the entire surface smoothly .
While the frosting dries, make the sugarpaste carrots. Divide the marzipan into 2 parts , one of 50 g and one of 20 g. Take the larger part and color it by adding a drop of yellow and a drop of red color . By kneading with your hands (use gloves to prevent staining) you will get a lively orange color .
Take the smaller part of marzipan and color it by adding 1 drop of green food coloring and kneading it with your hands until you get a uniform color. At this point, form the carrots using 5 grams of orange marzipan for each piece. Use your fingers to shape each marzipan piece into a tapered shape similar to carrots .
Then divide the green part into pieces of about 2 grams and by modeling with your fingers, you should obtain the carrot tops. Then join the two parts , carrot and top, and using a small knife, divide the green part into 3 small strands . Once you've finished all the little carrots, use them to decorate your carrot cake !
With this same recipe (but halving the amount of batter), you can make about 10-12 cupcakes; get some paper muffin cups and, once baked (it will take 10-15 minutes in a 350°F oven), cover the cupcakes with the frosting or the fresh cheese cream mentioned above. Get creative with decorations using sugar flowers, silver balls, or creating different subjects with marzipan yourself.
The English fill and cover the cake with fresh cheese (like Philadelphia or mascarpone) mixed with butter and sweetened with powdered sugar. If you are using an electric mixer to mix the mascarpone with the other ingredients, set it to the minimum speed and do not use it for too long, because the cream might separate into granules and be irreparably ruined; alternatively, use a wooden spoon.

