name:
Holiday Sandwiches
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 6cups(750 g)
Water: 1.7cups(400 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: 5tbsp(70 g)
Fine salt: 3.7tsp(22 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.9oz(25 g)
Malt: 1tsp
Pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)- diced
Walnut kernels: ½cup(60 g)
Green olives: 2.125oz(60 g)- pitted
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Poppy seeds: 4tsp(20 g)
Sesame seeds: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Whole milk: to taste- warm

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + 2 hours and 30 minutes of rising

instructions:
To prepare the holiday sandwiches, start by dissolving the teaspoon of malt (or alternatively one of sugar) in a bowl where you have poured some lukewarm water taken from your available 1 3/4 cups (400 ml) . Add the crumbled yeast and mix to dissolve it . In the remaining water dissolve the salt and add the extra virgin olive oil .
Put the flour in the bowl of a stand mixer equipped with a hook, turn on the machine and first add the yeast mixture and then, little by little, the water, salt, and oil mixture. Knead until you get a smooth and elastic dough, then take it out of the bowl and, on a work surface, knead it for a few seconds to shape it into a sphere . Place the dough in a large bowl greased with a little olive oil , cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rise in a warm place for about two hours, until it doubles in volume.
Meanwhile, chop the walnuts and rosemary needles and cut the olives into slices . When the dough is ready , pour it onto a work surface and divide it into six equal parts (approximately 7-7.5 oz each) .
Knead each part with a different ingredient (10-11), then divide each loaf into pieces weighing about 1.5 oz each. Knead each piece and shape it into a sphere , then place it on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. You should then have many small buns with bacon, olives, walnuts, rosemary, etc. Always set aside small quantities of ingredients to garnish the surface of the buns before baking. When you have formed all the buns, brush them with milk (or cream), put a little of the ingredient contained in the bun dough on top, and then let rise for about 30 minutes in the oven off but with the light on. When the buns have doubled in volume, they will be ready to be baked in a preheated oven at 390°F (200°C) for about 25 minutes.
Store the holiday sandwiches at room temperature, sealed in a plastic bag, for a maximum of 2-3 days.
Customize! You can flavor these buns according to your taste: I have indicated the versions I prefer and the most classic ones, but nothing prevents you from using other cold cuts - ham, raw or cooked, speck or salami - anchovies, onions, olives, walnuts, or simply decorating them with sesame and poppy seeds!

