name:
Gratinated oysters with anchovies and Pantelleria capers
ingredients:
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: - chopped 1 bunch
Salt: to taste
Pepper: - ground to taste
Ostrich: 5
Lemons: - the zest of 1/2
Capers: - Pantelleria in salt 10 gr
Anchovies: - in salt 4
Thyme: 1sprig
Marjoram: 1sprig
Broth: - vegetable 100 ml
Olive oil: to taste
Bread: - stale crumbs 130 gr
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)- (to grate)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the gratinated oysters with anchovies and Pantelleria capers, start by opening the oysters. This is a very delicate operation, equip yourself with a special knife with a thin tip, handle protection to protect your fingers, and a firm grip. Hold the oyster firmly with one hand and with the other, hold the knife and find the opening (you can request in the fish market to have the oysters pre-opened for easier opening). Insert the blade and cut the muscle located in the central part, open the shell in half , being careful not to spill the oyster water, which you can collect in a bowl and set aside for preparation. Discard one half of the shell and keep the one with the mollusk .
Now, prepare the breadcrumb mixture: finely chop thyme, parsley, and marjoram (4-5) and set aside the chopped herbs. Place the bread crumb in a mixer ,
the vegetable broth , the oyster water , the chopped herbs , garlic
and the grated Grana Padano DOP . Turn on the mixer and blend until you get a fine breadcrumb mixture . Transfer the breadcrumb mixture to a bowl, separately drain the anchovies and cut them into small pieces
and the Pantelleria capers and incorporate both the anchovy pieces and the caper pieces into the breadcrumb mixture.
Flavor with lemon zest and mix with a wooden spoon to combine the ingredients . Line a baking tray with parchment paper and to stabilize the shells, which could otherwise tip over, place an aluminum foil ring under each shell , in this way the oysters will remain upright during cooking.
At this point, cover the oysters with the breadcrumb mixture , when you've stuffed all the oysters drizzle them with a little oil and then gratinate in a preheated static oven at 482°F for 10-15 minutes or in a convection oven at 428°F for 10 minutes. If desired, the last two minutes can be cooked under the grill until the breadcrumb topping is well golden. Your gratinated oysters with anchovies and Pantelleria capers are ready; take them out of the oven and serve immediately .
It is recommended to consume the oysters immediately; if leftovers remain, store them in an airtight container in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day. Freezing is not recommended.
If you are not particularly skilled during the oyster opening operation, use a kitchen towel (or, if you have one, the special steel glove) to hold the shell of the mollusk: this will prevent you from injuring your hands.

