name:
Mixed fried calamari and shrimp with mayonnaise and yogurt sauce
ingredients:
Shrimps: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Calamari (squid): 1.1lbs(500 g)
Greek yogurt: 1cup(200 g)- compact
Fine salt: to taste
Chives: 1spoonful
Mustard: 3tsp(15 g)
Eggs: 1
Egg yolks: 1
Vegetable oil: 0.875cup(190 g)
Lemon juice: 1tbsp(15 g)
Black pepper: 1pinch
White wine vinegar: ½tsp(3 g)
Peanut seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare the mixed fried calamari and shrimp with mayonnaise and yogurt sauce, start with the accompanying sauce: in a small bowl, pour the whole egg and yolk, add the white wine vinegar , mix the ingredients with a fork, then pour them into a tall graduated glass, and begin blending with an immersion blender while slowly drizzling in the seed oil : this step prevents the mayonnaise from "breaking." You should achieve a smooth and creamy mixture. Transfer it to a small bowl, adjust with salt and pepper .
Pour in the lemon juice and gently mix with a spatula. Then add the mayonnaise to a bowl where you have placed the Greek yogurt , mix the mixture thoroughly and add the mustard .
Finally, chop the chives and add them to the mayonnaise and yogurt sauce . Then keep it in the refrigerator until it's time to use it and proceed to prepare the fry. Start by cleaning the shrimp: remove the head ,
then remove the shell and eliminate the intestine (the black thread) from the back with the help of a toothpick . Set the shrimp aside and proceed to clean the calamari: rinse them under running water ,
then remove the internal cartilage pen and rinse them again to thoroughly clean the inside of the mantle . Then remove the skin with the help of a small knife
then cut the calamari into rings about 0.39 inches thick . In a large pan with high edges, pour 4 cups of seed oil for frying and bring it to a temperature of 340-355°F (you can check the temperature with a kitchen thermometer). Meanwhile, coat the calamari in flour, ensuring they are completely covered ,
then remove the excess flour by sifting the calamari with a colander . When the oil has reached the indicated temperature, you can fry the calamari, a few at a time to prevent lowering the oil temperature too much and risking a soggy fry. It will take just a few moments, and you can drain the golden calamari using a slotted spoon .
Place them on a sheet of absorbent paper and proceed in the same way with the shrimp: coat them thoroughly in flour , remove the excess flour with a sifter, then proceed to fry them in the heated oil, again a few at a time. When they are well golden, drain them with a slotted spoon
and place them on absorbent paper to drain off excess oil . Salt the fry to taste and serve the mixed fried calamari and shrimp with mayonnaise and yogurt sauce !
It is recommended to consume the calamari fry as soon as it is ready!
The mayonnaise can be stored in the refrigerator in a well-sealed jar for 3-4 days.
Freezing is not recommended.

You can serve the mixed fried calamari and shrimp garnishing the serving dish with parsley sprigs and lemon wedges; instead, place the mayonnaise and yogurt sauce in small individual glass or ceramic bowls that you can also position in the center of the dish itself, arranging the fry all around!

