name:
Pomegranate Risotto with Leek Cream
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 2 ¼cups(400 g)
Leeks: 2 ¼cups(200 g)
Pomegranate: 3 ½cups(600 g)- (2 fruits)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(60 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Rose wine: 2.1oz(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pomegranate risotto with leek cream, start by preparing the Vegetable broth , then deseed the pomegranate: use a knife to cut the fruit in half , then remove the seeds and set aside about 0.7 oz for the final decoration. The rest can be pressed with a food mill to collect the juice in a small bowl .
Set aside the pomegranate juice and whole seeds . Then proceed to prepare the leek cream: remove the green part and the roots of the leek, peel off the first layer, and slice it . In a pan, pour the oil, heat it, and add the leek to let it soften over low heat
add a ladle of vegetable broth to aid in cooking: it will take about 5-10 minutes. Salt and pepper to taste at the end of cooking, then turn off the heat and let it cool slightly. Once ready, transfer it to a tall glass, add about 7 oz of vegetable broth , and blend with an immersion blender : you should obtain a creamy and homogeneous mixture.
Then set the leek cream aside . Now move on to the rice: in a large pot, heat the oil, add the rice to toast it over medium heat, stirring to prevent sticking .
Then deglaze with the rosé wine and when it's evaporated, cook the rice by gradually adding the vegetable broth: it will take about 20 minutes . In the middle of cooking, add the leek cream to the rice and mix well.
Pour in 1 or 2 more ladles of vegetable broth , and when it is slightly absorbed, pour in the pomegranate juice and stir, continuing to cook. Turn off the heat and add the butter in small pieces and the grated Grana Padano PDO , stirring to mix.
You can add the whole pomegranate seeds (19-20) and serve your leek and pomegranate cream risotto as soon as it's made !
You can store the leek and pomegranate cream risotto in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 1 day.
Freezing is not recommended.
To make the pomegranate and leek cream risotto, make sure to get well-ripened fruits with red, flavorful seeds that will pleasantly enhance this imaginative and refined risotto!

