name:
Stuffed Peppers with Ricotta, Eggplants, and Pine Nuts
ingredients:
Yellow peppers: 250
Red peppers: 9oz(250 g)
Breadcrumbs: 3tbsp(20 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Eggplant: 7oz(200 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Pine nuts: 2spoonfuls
Capers: 2tbsp(20 g)
Anchovies in oil: 5- fillets
Salt: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Pecorino cheese: - grated 50 g
Oregano: 1sprig- fresh
Piccadilly tomatoes: 2- ripe
Black pepper: to taste- (optional)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the stuffed peppers with ricotta, eggplants, and pine nuts, start by washing the peppers and eggplants well under running water. Then cut the top off the peppers (you can set it aside for garnish) and empty them of seeds using a spoon . Then trim the eggplant, removing the stem and the bottom end with a knife.
Slice the eggplant into slices about 1 cm (approximately 0.4 inches) thick and cut them into cubes . Transfer the cubes onto a colander placed over a tray to allow the eggplants to lose their bitter liquid; to facilitate this process, sprinkle them with salt and let them rest for at least 20 minutes. Meanwhile, proceed to prepare the tomatoes: wash them and score the skin with a small knife by making a cross, making it easier to peel them after blanching. Place them in a pot where you have brought water to a boil .
Boil them for a few moments , then drain them with a skimmer and let them cool slightly. Gently remove the skin with a small knife .
Then cut them in half and also remove the seeds by scooping out the insides with a teaspoon , then cut them into cubes , and place them in a small bowl. After the necessary minutes, take the eggplants, rinse them quickly under running water .
Transfer them to a dry kitchen towel and pat them with kitchen paper . In a skillet, sauté the garlic clove with a drizzle of oil, then add the eggplants and the diced tomatoes . Sauté everything for 10-15 minutes, stirring occasionally to allow the vegetables to dry. Season with salt and when they are ready, turn off the heat, remove the garlic clove, and let them cool slightly.
Now proceed to prepare the other ingredients for the filling: chop the fresh oregano and the anchovies drained from the preserving oil . In a small bowl, place the ricotta that you have allowed to drain in a fine mesh strainer to lose the whey. Add the capers and the chopped anchovies .
Add also the pine nuts , the grated Pecorino cheese , and the previously chopped oregano .
At this point, also add the cubes of eggplants and tomatoes and mix all the ingredients well ; you can add pepper to your liking. Take a small baking dish so that the peppers are close together, pour a drizzle of oil on the bottom and place the pepper shells in it .
Proceed to fill them with the mixture to the brim. Add a tablespoon of grated cheese to each pepper . Meanwhile, in a skillet, toast the breadcrumbs for a few moments with a drizzle of oil .
Then add it to the peppers . Now that the peppers are filled, you can place the baking dish on a baking tray and bake them in a preheated static oven at 356°F (if using a fan oven, at 320°F) for at least an hour. After 45 minutes, check the level of cooking, which may vary depending on the size of the peppers. Once cooked, remove the peppers from the oven, let them rest for 5 minutes, and serve your stuffed peppers with ricotta, eggplants, and pine nuts while still hot or warm . For a more appealing presentation, you can also garnish them with their "lid"!
You can store stuffed peppers with ricotta, eggplants, and pine nuts in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for 1-2 days at most. Freezing is not recommended.
To prepare stuffed peppers with ricotta, eggplants, and pine nuts, it is preferable to use cow's milk ricotta of the non-creamy type. You can also choose another cheese for the filling, such as mozzarella or provola.

