name:
Rice, barley, and spelt with pepper and tofu sauce
ingredients:
Spelt: 1cup(100 g)
Pearl barley: ½cup(100 g)
Carnaroli rice: ½cup(100 g)
Saffron: 1bag
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Shallot: 2oz(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: 1pinch
Red peppers: 1cup(150 g)
Yellow peppers: 5.3oz(150 g)
Tofu: 6.3oz(180 g)- (1 block)
Thyme: 4sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the rice, barley, and spelt in pepper and tofu sauce, first, start with the preparation of the peppers. Take the peppers, wash them, and dry them. Then place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and place them in a preheated static oven at 482°F (250°C) for about 25 minutes . Occasionally turn the peppers while they cook in the oven to allow for even cooking. When they are cooked, that is when the skin begins to come off, remove the peppers from the oven and place them in a plastic food bag to sweat . When they have reached room temperature, open the bag and peel them .
Cut the peppers in half and remove the external stem, internal seeds, and white filaments. Take the halved pepper and cut it into strips and then into small squares . Meanwhile, clean and finely chop the shallot . Take a saucepan and sprinkle it with 2 tablespoons of oil. At this point, fry the shallot in the saucepan and let it wilt. Add some water to help the shallot wilt better .
Then take the pearl barley and, using a sieve, rinse it in plenty of water . Once drained, pour it into the saucepan and toast it for a few minutes over low heat . Add a little vegetable broth to the barley and let the barley cook for another 4 minutes , stirring to prevent it from sticking to the bottom and to ensure even cooking.
At this point, take the spelt and rinse it in plenty of water, using a sieve . Then, add it to the barley while it is cooking in the saucepan and also add the rice .
Cook the three grains by adding the broth little by little . Dissolve the saffron sachet in a small bowl with some broth . When it is completely dissolved and free of lumps, add it to the grains that are cooking . Salt and pepper. Continue cooking by adding broth gradually.
While the grains are cooking, take the tofu and cut it first into horizontal strips and then into small cubes . Once you have cut the tofu, take a non-stick pan and pour in two tablespoons of oil. Then add the cubed tofu and adjust with salt and pepper. Now add the diced peppers .
Brown the peppers and tofu well. Incorporate the tofu and peppers to the grains , letting everything sauté together for a few seconds and adding finely chopped thyme : serve your rice, barley, and spelt in pepper and tofu sauce immediately and enjoy .
Rice, barley, and spelt in pepper and tofu sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days in an airtight container once cooked. Freezing is not recommended.
If you don't have time to cook the peppers, you can opt for jarred grilled and peeled peppers, in oil or natural.
If you prefer, you can use Red lentil lentil tofu , a tasty homemade legume-based variant!
Tofu is a food derived from soy (specifically from curdled soy milk) and is an excellent meat substitute in vegetarian recipes. Tofu is rich in calcium, easy to digest, and reduces bad cholesterol.

