name:
Chestnut spoon cups
ingredients:
Chestnuts: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)
Sugar: 0.67cup(130 g)
Rum: 1 ¼tsp(6 ml)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(300 g)
Dark chocolate: 1.6oz(45 g)
Powdered sugar: ⅛cup(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time

instructions:
To prepare the chestnut spoon cups, start with cooking the chestnuts. Score the chestnuts with a small knife , then drop them into boiling water and boil them for about 30 minutes (you can reduce the time using a pressure cooker) . While the chestnuts are cooking, coarsely chop the dark chocolate and place it in a bowl set over a saucepan to melt the chocolate in a double boiler ; make sure the water in the saucepan does not touch the bottom of the bowl.
When the chocolate is melted, add the butter and stir with a whisk to melt it into the chocolate. Then set the prepared mixture aside . Drain the now-cooked chestnuts ,
peel them while still hot and pass the fruits through a sieve (8-9).
Collect the flour obtained in a bowl, add the sugar and the melted chocolate mixture . Mix everything with a spatula
then work it with a whisk and finally add the rum . Place the mixture obtained in a piping bag without a nozzle or with a fairly wide nozzle. Take 4 cups with a capacity of 4.6 oz and pour the cream inside, leaving at least 1.5 inches from the edge .
Cover with plastic wrap and place them in the refrigerator to set for at least 1 hour. In the meantime, whip the fresh cream with the powdered sugar , then take the cups out of the refrigerator after 1 hour and with the help of a piping bag with a star nozzle, complete each cup with a dollop of cream. Grate the dark chocolate with a vegetable peeler to create shavings to garnish the cups.
Grate the dark chocolate with a vegetable peeler to create shavings and decorate your chocolate chestnut cups (20-21)!
Store the cups in the refrigerator for up to 1 day, covered with plastic wrap.
Freezing is not recommended.
When passing the chestnuts through the sieve, you may find it difficult to turn them into a puree due to their dryness: then you could moisten them with the rum to make them softer, and if that's not enough, with a bit of water, but don't overdo it. At the center of the cup, you can place a whole boiled chestnut or some candied chestnuts.

