name:
Crostini with ricotta and chili pepper jam
ingredients:
Baguette: 1
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ¼cup(60 g)
Smoked Ricotta cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- aged
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 7.1oz(200 g)- red spicy
Red peppers: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Sugar: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Coarse salt: 1pinch
Red wine: 1.7oz(50 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the crostini with ricotta and chili pepper jam, start by making the jam: Wash and dry the bell peppers, remove the stems, cut them in half lengthwise, remove the white fibers and seeds , and cut them into pieces ; proceed in the same way with the chili peppers: remove the stems, cut them in half lengthwise, and remove the seeds ,
finally, cut the chili peppers into pieces as well . Place the chopped bell peppers and chili peppers in a saucepan, add the granulated sugar , salt, and wine , and cook over very low heat.
Cover the pot with a lid , leaving a vent for the steam, and cook for about an hour. Once the time has passed , turn off the heat and pass everything through a food mill , paying particular attention to the skins to extract as much pulp as possible.
When you have finished straining the chili peppers, you will obtain a homogeneous pulp. Put the mixture back on low heat, stirring and skimming often if necessary (removing the white film that can form on the surface during cooking), and cook for another half hour. When the chili pepper jam is thick , take a little with a teaspoon and let a drop fall onto a plate; if it remains compact, your jam is ready. Slice the baguette ,
place the slices on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, drizzle with a little olive oil , and toast them in a preheated oven at 350°F for 5 minutes to obtain crispy crostini . Use a mandoline to shave the aged ricotta .
Top the toasted crostini with a spoonful of chili pepper jam , then garnish half with the shaved aged ricotta and the remaining half with the fresh ricotta . The crostini with ricotta and spicy chili pepper jam are ready to be crunched.
It's recommended to consume the crostini immediately. If you prefer, you can prepare the chili pepper jam in advance and store it in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks. For longer storage, place it while still hot in already sterilized jars and turn them upside down to create a vacuum seal!
You can add other types of cheeses like Parmesan or pecorino if you love strong flavors.

