name:
Pumpkin Jam
ingredients:
Pumpkin: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- pulp
Lemons: 1
Nutmeg: to taste
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp(2 g)
Sugar: 1 ¾cup(350 g)
Amaretto (liquor): 2oz(60 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 25
Cost: Low
Note + the time for maceration and jar sterilization

instructions:
To make the pumpkin jam, cut the pumpkin into wedges , remove the seeds and the peel, then cut the flesh into small cubes . Transfer the pumpkin cubes into a pot and add the sugar .
Mix and cover with the lid , let it macerate overnight (or at least 12 hours). After the maceration time, add cinnamon and the liquor to the pumpkin.
Add grated nutmeg , lemon zest , and also 1.4 oz of filtered lemon juice , cook the pumpkin for about 1 hour over low heat.
While the pumpkin jam is cooking, sanitize the jars and lids, following the guidelines of the Ministry of Health provided at the end of the recipe. When the jam is ready , pour it hot into the jars using a ladle , making sure to leave about half an inch of space from the rim of the jar. Screw the lids tightly but not too tight and let them cool. The heat from the jam will create a vacuum seal, allowing for long-term storage. Once the jars have cooled, check if the vacuum seal is correct: you can press in the center of the lid, and if you do not hear the classic "click-clack," the vacuum seal has occurred. Your pumpkin jam is ready to be enjoyed!
Pumpkin jam can be stored for about 3 months, provided the vacuum seal is correct and the jars are kept in a cool, dry place, away from light and heat sources. It is recommended to wait at least 2-3 weeks before consuming the jam. For storing the jam, use airtight jars not too large, ideally with a capacity of 8.5 oz, as once opened, the jam should be consumed within 3-4 days even if kept in the refrigerator.
When preparing the jam, it is advisable to place the pot on a flame diffuser, which, by distributing the heat evenly, will help prevent the jam from sticking to the bottom of the pot. You can add crumbled amaretti cookies to the jam or, if you want an aromatic touch, enrich the jam with other spices like cardamom.
Homemade preparation of preserves and jams can pose health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the necessary conditions and measures to ensure the safety and suitability of the food, which industrial procedures can guarantee to prevent dangerous contaminations. It is therefore important to scrupulously follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it must always be remembered that the same level of food safety as professionally produced preserves and jams cannot be achieved. For the correct preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

