name:
Persimmon Jam
ingredients:
Persimmon: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Brown sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Ambrosia apple: 8oz(230 g)
Lemons: 1
Vanilla bean: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 18
Cost: Low
Note + the time for sterilizing the jars

instructions:
To prepare the persimmon jam, start by sanitizing the jars and lids, as outlined in the guidelines from the Ministry of Health indicated at the end of the recipe. Line a wide pot with high sides with a clean cloth and place the jars inside the pot with the opening facing up. Wrap one or more cloths around the jars . Fill the pot with water until the jars are covered: bring to a boil, then lower the heat and leave the jars in the pot for another 30 minutes. Ten minutes before draining the jars, also immerse the lids to sterilize. Once the necessary time has passed, turn off the heat and let them cool. When the water reaches room temperature, take the jars out of the pot and drain them well, inverted, on a kitchen towel . While the jars are boiling, you can prepare the jam: remove the persimmon stems .
Peel them with a small knife , remove the lighter central part , peel the apple as well and dice it.
In a large saucepan, place the persimmon pulp and diced apple , then stir .
and add the grated zest and 2 tbsp of lemon juice . Put the pot on the stove over low heat and after the first boil, let five minutes pass, then turn off the heat and pass the mixture through a food mill , collecting it in a bowl.
Transfer the pulp back into the saucepan and add the brown sugar , then cut the vanilla bean and scrape out the seeds with a knife .
Add both the seeds and the whole vanilla bean to the saucepan , stirring to mix the sugar and vanilla into the mixture. Cook over low heat, stirring and skimming frequently , until the persimmon jam reaches the desired consistency (this will take about 40 minutes).
Once cooked, turn off the heat, remove the vanilla pod , stir, and jar the persimmon jam while still hot, taking care to leave 0.4 inches of space from the rim . It is preferable to use small jars so that the jam can be consumed shortly after opening. Screw on the lids tightly but not too tightly and let them cool. The heat of the jam will create a vacuum seal, which will allow the product to be stored for a long time. Once the jars have cooled, check if the vacuum seal has been achieved correctly: you can press the center of the lid, and if you don't hear the classic "click-clack", the vacuum has been achieved. If you use jars with rubber gasket closures, when you open the jam, you can test the vacuum by pulling the tab: if pulling it makes a sharp sound, it means the content has been preserved with the correct vacuum. On the other hand, if pulling the tab the seal appears "loose", it means the vacuum was not created correctly and it is best not to eat the contents. Your persimmon jam is ready to be enjoyed!
Persimmon jam can be stored for about 3 months, provided the vacuum seal was achieved correctly and the jars are kept in a cool, dry place, away from sources of light and heat. It is recommended to wait at least 2-3 weeks before consuming the jam. Once each jar is opened, store in the refrigerator and consume within 3-4 days at most.
When buying persimmons to prepare the jam, make sure they are well-ripe but not mushy, and that they don't have blemishes or cracks on the surface.
The home preparation of preserves and jams can pose health risks. In a domestic setting, it is not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of foods, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures can ensure to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to strictly follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but you must always keep in mind that you can never achieve the same food safety that professionally produced preserves and jams have. For correct preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

