name:
Sweet Halloween Coffins
ingredients:
Apricot jam: 1cup(100 g)- approximately
Pan di Spagna (Sponge cake): 12.5oz(350 g)
Powdered sugar: 2spoonfuls
Water: to taste- boiling
Dark chocolate: 0.7oz(20 g)
Cookies: 10- (such as oro saiwa)
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(125 ml)
Glucose: 1oz(25 g)
Food decorations: to taste- colored sugar flowers (or wafer flowers)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the sweet Halloween coffins, draw the shape of a coffin on a cardboard, 4 inches long and 2.5 inches wide. Divide the sponge cake into two layers and cut out at least 10 shapes following the cardboard drawing , then slice them horizontally .
Sift the jam with a strainer and spread it on the coffins: fill the inside layer and carefully cover the sides and the top as well .
Place the coffins on a wire rack and start preparing the chocolate glaze: heat the cream over low heat and, when it reaches the boiling point, remove it from the heat and add the glucose
and the chocolate, previously chopped with a knife (10-11). Stir until the chocolate is completely melted: you should get a creamy glaze. When the glaze is ready, pour it over each coffin , letting it drip over all sides and trying to cover all the jam-coated surfaces evenly (to facilitate this operation, you can use a flat-bladed knife).
Now prepare the tombstones: remove the corners from the upper end of all the cookies , then prepare a water glaze by dissolving powdered sugar in a bowl with 2 teaspoons of boiling water and stirring until you obtain a homogeneous and thick glaze (for more details on the water glaze recipe Water Glaze ). Cover the cookies with the glaze , let them drain on a wire rack and allow them to dry well. Melt the dark chocolate in a double boiler (or in the microwave), transfer it to a pastry bag and decorate each cookie with the initials RIP (Rest In Peace) .
Now take some rectangular bowls, turn them upside down and cover them with a colored paper napkin , as shown in figure 16, then place a coffin on top, upon which you will lean a tombstone . Finally, decorate the surface of the coffin with wafer flowers : the sweet Halloween coffins are ready to be enjoyed!
Store the sweet Halloween coffins for up to one day, under a glass dome.
If you like, you can soak the sponge cake in liqueur, such as rum or alchermes. For more information on how to prepare cake syrup How to make syrup for cakes . For perfect sponge cake slicing suggestions, find tips in the cooking guide How to cut Sponge Cake . Also try the recipe for sweet graves, Sweet Halloween Tombs

