name:
Sweet Halloween Tombs
ingredients:
Sprinkles: 8spoonfuls- chocolate
Chocolate pudding: 2 ⅛cups(500 ml)
Powdered sugar: 2spoonfuls
Water: 2tsp- hot
Dark chocolate: 0.9oz(25 g)
Cookies: 8- (like Oro Saiwa)
Colored candy decorations: to taste
Oregano: to taste- fresh

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the sweet Halloween tombs, start by preparing the chocolate pudding ( Chocolate pudding with strawberries and cream for the full recipe): put the butter cut into pieces in a saucepan, melt it over low heat, and add the sugar . Add the previously chopped dark chocolate and mix with a whisk. When the chocolate is melted, gradually add the sifted flour and keep stirring to make sure everything is well blended.
Pour the milk, which you heated, all at once into the chocolate mixture and cook the mixture over low heat, stirring constantly, until it thickens . Then let it simmer for 5 minutes, turn off the heat and pour the pudding into 8 single-serving rectangular molds with a capacity of about 3 oz . Allow to cool and place the molds in the refrigerator for at least a couple of hours until the pudding sets well.
Meanwhile, prepare the tombstones: trim the corners of the upper end of all the cookies , then make an icing by dissolving powdered sugar with about 2 teaspoons of boiling water in a bowl and mixing until you get a smooth and thick glaze. Cover the cookies with the glaze, letting them drip on a rack, and let them dry well. Melt the dark chocolate in a double boiler (or in the microwave), transfer it to a piping bag, and decorate each cookie with the initials RIP (rest in peace).
At this point, you can complete the sweet tombs: insert a cookie-tombstone at the end of each pudding-tomb and cover the surface with a spoonful of chocolate sprinkles . Arrange the candies in the center in two rows, alternating colors , and finally decorate with fresh oregano (or mint) leaves : the sweet Halloween tombs are ready!
Store the sweet tombs in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for up to two days.
Decorate the sweet tombs as you like: sugar flowers, colorful chocolates, chocolate flakes, or fresh fruit!

