name:
Semolina Dumplings
ingredients:
Semolina: ½cup(100 g)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)- fresh
Eggs: 1- medium
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Meat broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.4oz(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare semolina dumplings, start by making the Beef Broth . Then focus on the dough: in a non-stick saucepan with high sides, heat the milk until it almost boils. Then add the semolina in a stream , stirring continuously and vigorously with a whisk to avoid lumps, for about 7-8 minutes. After that, turn off the heat and adjust the salt. Now add the softened butter ,
keep stirring to melt it into the warm mixture , then pour in a beaten egg . Incorporate it into the ingredients .
Flavor with nutmeg and continue stirring: the mixture should be thick and firm and separate from the sides of the pan . Let it cool slightly to firm up. When it reaches room temperature, take about 2.3 oz and, with slightly damp hands, create a small ball . Repeat the process until you finish all the dough: you will obtain 8 dumplings.
Place the dumplings well-spaced on a tray lined with parchment paper to prevent sticking . Now bring a large pot of salted water to a boil, and when it reaches a boil, dip 4-5 dumplings at a time : you will see them sink to the bottom of the pot. As soon as they float to the surface, they are ready: use a slotted spoon to remove them . Cook the remaining ones,
then take serving plates for the semolina dumplings and pour in the meat broth. Then use the slotted spoon to transfer about 2-3 dumplings per serving . Sprinkle with cheese and enjoy your semolina dumplings while they're still hot !
Semolina dumplings can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container without the broth for up to 2 days.
They can also be frozen if you've used fresh and not previously frozen ingredients.
And if you need to serve them to your little ones? Try making smaller dumpling balls: your children will love them! To give these dumplings an extra boost, grate some cheese into the dough!

