name:
Hollandaise sauce
ingredients:
Clarified butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Egg yolks: 4
White pepper: to taste
Lemon juice: 4tsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The first thing to do to prepare hollandaise sauce is to make Clarified butter , so cut the butter and let it melt in a bain-marie, being careful to skim it . Once it's purified from casein, you can transfer it .
Meanwhile, prepare the sauce; it is very important that the cooking is in a bain-marie, so the water should not touch the saucepan and should never reach a boil. Pour the egg yolks into the saucepan and break them with a whisk , stir and add the lemon juice , then season with salt .
Add white pepper , then slowly pour in the clarified butter (if you prepared it earlier, it might have solidified, so let it melt for a few moments before pouring) and keep beating .
You will notice that the sauce will start to change color , becoming lighter, along with its consistency . It takes about 5 minutes of cooking over low heat, continually stirring, to achieve hollandaise sauce .
We recommend consuming the sauce immediately.
In my opinion, hollandaise sauce is already delicious as it is, perfect for accompanying white meats or fish with delicate flesh like sole and plaice. However, I have tried more spiced versions, where finely chopped parsley or chives were added. So why not try? To ensure that the hollandaise sauce has turned out perfectly, all the ingredients must be at room temperature. If you want to replace the clarified butter with regular butter, you will notice a different and less delicate consistency but equally good. If you find it, you can add cayenne pepper, a spicy chili powder that is used to flavor sauces, legumes, or vegetables.
Hollandaise sauce is a basic recipe of French cuisine, legend has it that the name of this sauce is due to the fact that it was tasted for the first time at a luncheon prepared for an official visit to France by the Dutch sovereign.

