name:
Eggplant and Cherry Tomato Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 0.9cup(180 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.1cup(30 g)- grated
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Basil: to taste
Vegetable broth: to taste
Eggplant: 1- medium
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cherry tomatoes: 1cup(150 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Goat: 1.8oz(50 g)
Milk: 1.7tbsp(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
On a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, place an eggplant and the cherry tomatoes , add the garlic and the basil .
Season with oil , adjust for salt and pepper . Bake in a fan oven preheated to 356°F for 20 minutes.
Remove the garlic , take the tomatoes and blend them until you get a smooth and homogeneous sauce . Put the eggplant back in the oven and let it bake under the same conditions for another 10 minutes or until it becomes soft.
Once cooked, separate the skin from the pulp . Coarsely chop the pulp , then season it with oil .
Add salt and pepper . Blend until you get a smooth and homogeneous cream.
Retrieve the eggplant skin and place it on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Dry it in a static oven at 338°F for about 10 minutes, it should become crispy .
In a bowl, put the goat cheese and add the milk , mix with a hand whisk until you get a fairly fluid cream . If it turns out too thick, you can add more milk.
Toast the carnaroli rice dry with salt , then add the vegetable broth and cook .
When there are a few minutes left to finish cooking, add the eggplant cream . Turn off the heat and stir in butter and grated parmesan .
Plate and dress with the tomato cream and the goat cheese cream . Finish with crumbled eggplant skin and a few basil leaves . The eggplant and cherry tomato risotto is ready to be served.
It is advisable to consume the eggplant and cherry tomato risotto immediately. You can prepare the various creams in advance and store them in the fridge in closed containers for one day.
For an even more pronounced taste, you can use goat's milk. To add a note of complexity to the dish, you can add a pinch of paprika or curry to the eggplant cream. If you love spiciness, you can add a fresh chili pepper to the eggplant cream.

