name:
Fritters of Trombetta Zucchini and Its Flowers
ingredients:
Crookneck squash: 8.8oz(250 g)- (and 6 flowers)
Water: ⅔cup(150 ml)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Garlic: 1clove
Black pepper: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2oz(50 g)- to grate
Eggs: 2
Fine salt: 2pinches
Parsley: 2tsp(6 g)- to chop

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes to remove the zucchini's vegetation water

instructions:
To prepare the trombetta zucchini fritters, start by removing the flowers carefully, eliminating the base with the pistil, and set them aside . Wash the zucchinis and cut off the ends .
Cut the zucchinis into very thin slices (about 1 mm). To make this easier, you can use a mandoline . Place the zucchini slices in a colander, add two pinches of salt , mix them, cover with a small plate , and place a weight on top (such as a 2.2 lbs bag of sugar) to help them lose their excess water. Leave them like this for about half an hour.
In the meantime, prepare the batter in a bowl by beating the eggs with a whisk , 150 ml of water (or milk) , grated Grana Padano DOP, and Pecorino cheese ,
the chopped parsley , sifted flour , crushed garlic, and a pinch of black pepper. Whisk the mixture to combine the ingredients. You should have a smooth, lump-free batter.
Add the whole zucchini flowers to the batter, then the zucchinis : the batter should be thick, and if not, you can add a tablespoon of flour. Prepare a pan with plenty of oil, and put it on the stove; when the oil is hot (should reach 356°F), if you don't have a kitchen thermometer, check the temperature by dipping a teaspoon of batter into the oil : if it floats and starts frying, the temperature is right. Spoon dollops of the batter into the oil (the spoon should be about ¾ full), and fry the fritters on both sides.
Remove them from the oil when they are golden using a slotted spoon , place them on kitchen paper towels to drain excess oil. Once ready , serve the trombetta zucchini fritters and its flowers while still hot.
It is recommended to consume the trombetta zucchini fritters and its flowers immediately and not to store them in the fridge as they will lose their crispiness. You can prepare the batter in advance and store it in the fridge (for no more than one day) and fry the zucchinis just before serving. Freezing is not recommended.
To fry these zucchini fritters, I recommend using a wok and keeping the heat moderate so the oil is hot but not so hot as to burn the fritters or over-color them on the outside while leaving them raw inside. Also, do not add extra salt beyond what is mentioned in the recipe, to avoid making the fritters too salty. If you want fluffier and puffier fritters, you can add half a teaspoon of baking powder for savory pies. If you can't find trombetta zucchinis, you can use regular ones, provided they are small and tender.

