name:
Panettone Cake with Nutella®
ingredients:
Nutella®: 4 ½tbsp(90 g)
Panettone: 2slices- (without candied fruit)
Greek yogurt: 1.8cups(450 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)
Agar agar: ¾tsp(3 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Dried oranges: 2slices

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 6
Note + 1 hour of setting in the refrigerator and the time for drying the oranges (optional decoration)

instructions:
To make the panettone cake with Nutella®, start with the decoration of Dried Orange Slices (you can find the preparation details on our website; this decoration is optional). Then move on to the cream: pour 50 ml (about 1/4 cup) of fresh liquid cream into a saucepan, add the sugar and powdered agar agar . Stir with a whisk and bring to just below boiling.
Then, turn off the heat and incorporate 225 g (about 1 cup) of Greek yogurt , mix thoroughly then add the obtained mixture to the remaining amount of yogurt , stir to mix the cream well , cover with plastic wrap in contact and let cool and set for about 10-15 minutes.
Meanwhile, pour the remaining 200 ml (about 3/4 cup) of very cold fresh liquid cream into a bowl and whip it with electric beaters until it is foamy. At this point add the freshly whipped cream to the now cold cream . Stir gently with a spatula, cover with plastic wrap and place in the fridge to set for about 2 hours.
Toast two slices of panettone in a very hot pan until golden. After the setting time, retrieve the cream from the fridge to assemble the dessert. Fill a slice of panettone with half the amount of Nutella® , spread it over the entire surface ,
then pour over 1/3 of the yogurt cream and spread it evenly . At this point, fill the second slice with the remaining amount of Nutella® and place it on top of the other (the side with Nutella® should be up) . Finish by covering the entire surface with the remaining yogurt cream , spreading for a snowy landscape effect.
Now proceed with the decoration: insert two rosemary sprigs laterally, positioning them with the tips of the needles pointing downwards, to simulate small pine trees. Now apply the two dried orange slices and finish with a dusting of powdered sugar . Your spectacular panettone cake with Nutella® is ready to be brought to the table .
Consume the panettone cake with Nutella® within a couple of days at most, taking care to store it in the refrigerator. We do not recommend freezing.
As an alternative to Greek yogurt, you can use creamy whole white yogurt.
Nutella® is a registered trademark of Ferrero. The recipe described here is intended for home use only. Making this recipe does not grant authorization to use the Nutella® brand.

