name:
Lamb Meatloaf
ingredients:
Lamb: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- minced meat
Bread: 1 ¾cup(100 g)- crumb
Hard boiled eggs: 5- (for the filling)
Eggs: 2- (to add to the dough)
Prosciutto crudo: 3.5oz(100 g)- sliced
Sardinian pecorino cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Walnut kernels: 1.75oz(50 g)
Green olives: 1.75oz(50 g)- pitted
Whole milk: 0.625cup(150 g)
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the lamb meatloaf, you can start by placing a saucepan with water on the stove and hard-boiling 5 eggs which you will need for the filling. Once they are ready, peel them . Meanwhile, move on to the filling by cutting the bread ,
and soaking it in milk . Meanwhile, place the shelled walnuts on a cutting board and chop them with a knife , do the same with the olives ,
then cut the ham into small pieces and finally grate the Sardinian pecorino cheese . In a large enough bowl, place the minced lamb meat together with the ham
add the chopped pitted green olives , and chopped walnut kernels ; finally, add the grated Pecorino cheese .
Squeeze the soaked bread well and add it to the mixture ; separately, crack the two eggs and add them .
On a cutting board, chop the thyme together with the rosemary leaves that you will have removed from the sprigs and add them to the mixture , season with salt
and pepper and mix all the ingredients well ; you will need to work the mixture for about 10 minutes. Place a sheet of parchment paper on a surface and spread the mixture in the center
place the peeled hard-boiled eggs in a row and start closing it like a candy, helping yourself with the parchment paper , applying gentle pressure with each half-turn .
Close like a candy by tightening the sides well, and bake in the oven for about 60 minutes at 356°F . Before unwrapping the lamb meatloaf, let it rest at room temperature for 20 minutes , after which you can slice and serve it.
The lamb meatloaf can be stored raw in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap; it can also be stored once cooked, always covered, and kept in the fridge for about 2–3 days. Finally, it can be frozen if the ingredients are very fresh and the meat has not been previously frozen.
The lamb meatloaf can also be prepared in advance and cooked the next day, provided you keep it covered and in the refrigerator. If you are looking for a side dish to pair, then go for roasted potatoes or a simple puree.
The terms meatball and meatloaf derive from the Latin pulpa, meaning pulp. Traditionally, meatloaf should be made with raw meat, while meatballs are a way to use up leftover meat, especially boiled meat. Meatballs are fried and sometimes remade with tomato sauce, while meatloaf can be cooked in a pan without tomato sauce or with it.

