name:
Rice timbale with 4 cheeses
ingredients:
Fontina cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Gruyere cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Prosciutto crudo: 4.25oz(120 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.8cup(80 g)- to grate
Nutmeg: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Mozzarella cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Carnaroli rice: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Shallot: 1
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the rice timbale with 4 cheeses, start by preparing the risotto: finely chop the shallot and brown it in 1 tbsp of butter . Then add the carnaroli rice , toast it well, and then add a ladle of broth to deglaze . Continue cooking the risotto, adding a ladle of broth from time to time.
When cooked, stir in 1 tbsp of butter and 1/2 cup of grated Parmesan, and finally season with a sprinkle of nutmeg and black pepper. Cut the mozzarella and fontina into thin slices . Butter a large baking dish or small single-portion dishes and place a first layer of about 3/4 inch of risotto on the bottom ,
which you will cover with slices of mozzarella alternating with slices of fontina , sprinkled with finely chopped prosciutto . Then make another layer of rice
and one of grated Gruyere (about 2 oz) , and cover with another layer of rice. Drizzle with the remaining melted butter , sprinkle with the remaining Gruyere and Grana Padano DOP , and then bake at 430°F for about 30 minutes to melt the cheeses and slightly gratinate the surface. When the necessary time has passed for a golden crust to form, remove the rice timbale from the oven and let it rest for 5-10 minutes; then prepare the portions to be placed on individual serving plates, and serve the rice timbale with 4 cheeses immediately!
If you like, you can vary the cheeses as you like, or even add some others to those already present in the recipe. If you love strong flavors, you can add some pecorino or any other more flavorful cheese (such as taleggio), perhaps mixing it with Gruyere; let your taste or imagination run wild! Instead of risotto, you can use boiled parboiled rice seasoned with butter, Grana Padano DOP, nutmeg, and pepper!

