name:
Asparagus Milanese
ingredients:
Eggs: 4- medium
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 4spoonfuls- (for grating)
Black pepper: to taste
Asparagus: 3.5lbs(1.6 kg)
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Wash the asparagus under running water , dry them , and using a sharp knife, cut off the white and tougher parts of the stalks
and with a vegetable peeler or a small knife, remove the outer layer to facilitate cooking; gather the cleaned asparagus into a bunch , tie them with kitchen string, then place the asparagus vertically in a tall, narrow pot containing 4 quarts of water; this way the stalks will boil in the water and the tips will cook with steam. Let the asparagus cook until they are soft.
In the meantime, prepare the ciarighì eggs (or fried eggs) by melting the butter in a pan and placing the egg in it without breaking it, to cook sunny side up (We recommend cooking one egg at a time). Then when the egg is cooked (the yolk should remain a bit soft) remove it from the pan and set it aside, and in the same pan, place the drained asparagus (we recommend cooking one portion of asparagus at a time),
arranging them in a radial pattern with the tips in the center and cover them with the eggs ; salt, pepper and sprinkle with Grana Padano PDO , then cook on low heat until the cheese partially melts, and serve the Milanese-style asparagus still hot.
It is best to consume the Milanese-style asparagus as soon as they are ready. If you wish, you can prepare the already cooked asparagus in an airtight container in the fridge, and later accompany them with the freshly prepared ciarighì egg!
To best cook the asparagus in a tall, narrow pot, tie them with string so that during cooking they do not move and risk breaking, or cook them in a specific steel basket, or change the dish, laying them in a pot wide enough to contain them.
We recommend cooking the eggs one at a time and pan-cooking the asparagus already divided into portions in this way it will be easier to control the cooking and you will get perfect Milanese-style asparagus!
The combination of eggs and vegetables is very tasty and nutritious, and if you are a fan of this type of main course, we recommend also trying Leeks and Eggs Baked or Bell peppers flowers with eggs !
The harvesting of asparagus, done with a special spoon-shaped tool, is entrusted to experienced people who are more skilled as they manage to move the least amount of soil during this operation, a precaution that greatly simplifies the cleaning procedures before cooking.

