name:
Plum Dumplings
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 1.8lbs(800 g)- starchy
Type 00 flour: ⅛cup(20 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- at room temperature
Egg yolks: 1
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)- to grate
Fine salt: 1pinch
Dried prunes: 12- to pit, meaty
Sugar: 6- sugar cubes
Butter: 0.67cup(150 g)- at room temperature
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(60 g)
Cinnamon powder: 2tsp(4 g)
Brown sugar: ¼cup(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the plum dumplings, start by taking the plums and pitting them with a knife . If you are using rather dry dried plums, soak them in warm water to rehydrate, then gently squeeze them and only then pit them. After this procedure, set the plums aside. Wash the potatoes thoroughly under fresh running water and boil them whole with the skin in plenty of salted water . After 40-45 minutes, check if the potatoes are cooked by pricking them with a fork; if the potatoes are soft and well-cooked, turn off the heat and gently drain them from the water; then peel them while still hot .
Subsequently, pass them through a food mill or potato ricer and place the puree in the stand mixer. Add the room temperature butter in pieces and start the paddle attachment (if you don't have a stand mixer, work the dough on a work surface with your hands); when you have obtained a homogeneous mixture, transfer the potato puree to a work surface .
Then add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano , the egg yolk, and the flour ; gently mix everything with a spatula for 5-6 minutes at most without kneading excessively , until you get a soft and consistent mixture. If the dough is too soft or sticky, add another tablespoon of flour (the result depends a lot on the type of potatoes you used). Meanwhile, put a pot with plenty of salted water on the stove, which will be used for cooking the dumplings.
Divide the dough into 12 equal parts weighing 60 grams each and form balls that you will then flatten in the palm of your hands, thus obtaining discs. Once this step is complete, place a pitted plum in the center of each disc in which you will also place half a sugar cube (or a small teaspoon of sugar) . Gently close each disc with your hands until you form equally sized balls .
Repeat the operation and, when you have finished, place the plum dumplings you have obtained on a tray lined with parchment paper . When the water has reached a boil, boil the dumplings and drain them as they float to the surface ;
then cool them in cold water, immersing them with a skimmer . Now proceed to the preparation of the breading: in a bowl pour the breadcrumbs, brown sugar , cinnamon , then mix them well with a spoon.
Gently pass the plum dumplings in the breading you have obtained , making sure it adheres well evenly . Repeat the operation and place the breaded dumplings on a tray .
Finally, put a non-stick pan on the stove with the butter ; once melted, you can decide whether to sprinkle the plum dumplings with the melted butter or sauté them in the pan until they are golden brown . Another variant consists of browning the breadcrumbs with the butter and cinnamon, then tossing the dumplings in it for a few seconds to flavor them. Serve the plum dumplings hot immediately.
It is recommended to consume the plum dumplings hot immediately. They can be frozen raw, placed on a floured tray well separated. Once perfectly frozen, they can be collected in a freezer bag for food, so they do not stick to each other.
I really love this traditional recipe so rich in history! If you want to try the dumplings with other types of fruit, you can vary the filling by replacing the plums with other dried fruit (still quite soft) like apricots. I recommend buying juicy and already pitted ones; if they are in season, buy fresh but rather small and oblong ones. And if you're not satisfied, try with figs... with these dumplings, you will truly make an impression!
In the gastronomy of Trieste, a Central European city, Latin, Germanic, and Slavic traditions converge. Trieste's cuisine has indeed incorporated and juxtaposed Venetian, Austrian, Slavic, Jewish, and Greek recipes, which have sometimes been "accommodated" for the Triestine palate with the use of typical ingredients such as cumin, marjoram, and garlic, but it often happens that they are proposed on Friulian tables without any variation.

