name:
Chicken Marengo
ingredients:
Chicken: 1
Porcini mushrooms: 4
Bread: 4slices
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Lemons: 1
Parsley: 1tuft
Eggs: 4- medium
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peeled tomatoes: 2cups(500 g)
Scampi: 4

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare Chicken Marengo, start by flaming the chicken to remove any feathers , then cut it lengthwise and open it .
Cut off the wings and divide the chicken into pieces, being careful not to shatter the bones (5-6).
Coat the chicken pieces in flour ; then peel the garlic clove and finely chop the parsley bunch .
Clean the mushrooms (you can consult the Cooking School: How to Clean Porcini Mushrooms ) and slice them thinly . Then pass the peeled tomatoes and collect the pulp in a small bowl. Heat a drizzle of oil with the peeled garlic clove in a pan; then add the chicken pieces and brown them.
Salt and pepper to taste, and when the chicken is well browned, pour in 100 ml of white wine . Let it evaporate before adding the peeled tomato puree . Cook for about 20 minutes with the lid on.
Then add the mushrooms to the chicken and let it cook for another 20 minutes. Meanwhile, clean the prawns under running water and cut the shell .
In a saucepan, pour the remaining white wine , salt it , and as soon as it begins to simmer, add the prawns , cooking them for at least 5 minutes.
Drain the prawns and add them to the chicken in the pan , then also add the lemon juice , stir and a few minutes before turning off the heat, add the chopped parsley .
In a pan, pour 3 tablespoons of oil, toast the slices of bread while in another pan fry the eggs for a few minutes with another two tablespoons of oil , salting them lightly. Then transfer the Chicken Marengo to a serving dish and place the toast on which you will lay the eggs .
Store Chicken Marengo in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
The peculiarity of this recipe is that some of its ingredients can be substituted: we chose prawns instead of the crayfish provided by the original recipe because they are easier to find. You can choose other types of mushrooms like Champignons!
It seems that originally Dunand prepared this recipe using cognac instead of wine and that the mushrooms were not present in the dish. Dunand knew well that cognac and crayfish had nothing to do with chicken, and for this, he replaced the two ingredients with wine and mushrooms, but after encountering the wrath of the superstitious Napoleon, who loved this dish precisely because it reminded him of a great victory, he had to re-adapt the recipe again!

