name:
Frico with potatoes and onions
ingredients:
Black pepper: to taste
Montasio cheese: 1.1lbs(500 g)- aged or semi-aged
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (weight after cleaning)
Onions: 7oz(200 g)- (weight after peeling)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the frico with potatoes and onions, peel the onions and thinly slice them into rings ; then peel the potatoes with a vegetable peeler or a knife.
and grate them with a large-hole grater . Remove the rind from the Montasio cheese and also grate it with the large-hole grater .
Now that the ingredients are ready, in a large pot pour 3 tablespoons of oil , and the onion . Fry for a few minutes over low heat, stirring often with a wooden spoon to prevent the onion from sticking to the bottom of the pan or burning. Then add the grated potatoes and cook for about 10 minutes.
At this point, also add the grated Montasio cheese , salt and pepper to taste (11-12), and cook the frico for about 20 minutes over medium heat, stirring to completely melt the cheese.
When you have finished cooking and obtained a homogeneous mixture , turn off the heat. In a low-sided non-stick pan, pour a little oil , heat it slightly, and pour the mixture of potatoes, onions, and Montasio into the pan , trying to remove excess fat.
Spread and compact the frico in the pan and cook it over high heat without stirring, like an omelette . As soon as it forms a crust, turn it over to the other side . If still present, remove the excess fat before transferring the frico with potatoes and onions to a serving plate. Then cut it into portions and accompany it with Polenta !
It is preferable to consume the frico with potatoes and onions as soon as it's made! You can store it for 1 day in the refrigerator, then reheat it as needed in a pan or in the oven. Freezing is not recommended.
If, once cooked, the frico still has a lot of fat, before placing it on the serving plate and cutting it, drain it well, so it does not turn out excessively greasy. For this recipe, you can use half fresh Montasio and half aged. If it's difficult to find Montasio, it can be replaced with a semi-aged or aged cheese of your preference.
Also try the recipe for the Potato and Onion Crunch , made with a quick dough based on water and flour!
There are two versions of frico: a soft one, and a crispy one. The first resembles more of an omelette, while the second is very thin and crumbly, made with grated Latteria or Montasio cheese and cornmeal; with this malleable preparation, 'baskets' are often formed to hold, for example, polenta or cheese!

