name:
Meatballs in the Microwave
ingredients:
Ground beef: 7oz(200 g)
Sausage: 3.5oz(100 g)
Stale bread: 1.8oz(50 g)- crumb only
Garlic: ½clove
Parsley: to taste
Eggs: 1
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.1cup(30 g)- grated
Pecorino cheese: 4tbsp(20 g)- grated
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Meat broth: 7tbsp(100 g)
Water: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 17 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time in the refrigerator (15 minutes)

instructions:
To prepare microwave meatballs, first put the stale bread crumbs in a bowl . Add water until covered and let them soak for a few minutes . Meanwhile, finely chop the garlic and parsley with a knife.
Take the sausage, cut the casing and remove it . Break it up with your hands into a bowl . Then add the ground beef.
Add the well-squeezed crumbs , the egg, the parsley , and chopped garlic .
Add the grated Grana and Pecorino . Mix everything well with your hands , season with salt and pepper .
Knead one last time until you get a homogeneous mixture . Cover the bowl with a plate and let it rest in the refrigerator for 15 minutes. After the resting time, you can form the meatballs. You will need about 1 oz of mixture for each, forming a spherical shape by rolling the mixture between your hands . Gradually place them on a tray .
In the end, you should have about 16 pieces . Grease a baking dish and arrange the meatballs inside .
Once the meatballs are neatly arranged in the baking dish , pour in the warm broth . Bake in the microwave at 650w for 10 minutes. After 10 minutes, set to grill mode and cook for another 7 minutes. The microwave meatballs are ready to be served .
Microwave meatballs can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for 1-2 days. The mixture, if properly covered, can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 12 hours.
You can add chopped vegetables, like zucchini or carrots, to your meatballs for a touch of color and flavor. Or, you can use ground chicken, turkey, or fish to create lighter and more delicate meatballs.

