name:
Yogurt Salad with Salmon and Shrimp
ingredients:
Natural plain yogurt: 0.6cup(150 g)- firm
Smoked Salmon: 3.5oz(100 g)
Shrimp paste: 3.5oz(100 g)
Lemon juice: 1
Black pepper: ¼tsp(1 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Chives: 0.1oz(2 g)
Radicchio: 1cup(100 g)
Fine salt: 0.4tsp(2 g)
Iceberg lettuce: 2cups(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the yogurt salad with salmon and shrimp, start by washing all the vegetables and drying them with a cloth. Start with the radicchio . Then cut it into thin strips . Place it in a small bowl and set aside. Then move on to the lettuce: cut the head of lettuce in half and remove the tougher inner part .
Then cut it into thin strips . Set it aside in a small bowl. Proceed by finely chopping the chives , also placing it in a small bowl. Then move on to preparing the salmon. Cut it into thin slices and then each of them into small strips .
Finish preparing the seafood by cleaning the How to clean shrimp : remove the head and shell , then gently extract the intestine with the help of a toothpick. Take a pan, fill it with water, and bring it to a boil. Boil the shrimps for 1 minute , then use a slotted spoon to remove them from the pan and place them in a small bowl to cool.
Then dedicate yourself to preparing the yogurt sauce. In a small bowl, pour the fresh yogurt and add the oil . Adjust with salt and pepper . Also, add the lemon juice .
Also add the chives to the yogurt sauce and blend the ingredients well with a hand whisk until you get a homogeneous sauce . You now have all the ingredients to prepare the salad. Take a large bowl or salad bowl. Place the iceberg lettuce ,
the radicchio , the salmon , and the boiled shrimp .
Then pour the yogurt sauce over it and use a spoon to mix the ingredients well to ensure the sauce combines with the fish and vegetables. Your yogurt salad with salmon and shrimp is now ready to refresh your and your guests' palates !
The yogurt salad with salmon and shrimp should be consumed right after preparation.
The yogurt sauce can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for up to 3 days.
It is not recommended to store the salad in the refrigerator or freeze it.
Regarding the yogurt to use in this preparation, we recommend opting for whole Greek yogurt, which is thick and low in acidity, to give the yogurt salad with salmon and shrimp an optimal result.
Ilya Ilyich Mechnikov was the first researcher to investigate the composition of yogurt, particularly the lactobacillus bulgaricus, which allows for its fermentation. His research stemmed from the observation of the longevity of Bulgarian populations who used it in large quantities. He later convinced entrepreneur Isaac Carasso of the nutritional goodness and health benefits of this food, leading him to open the first factory for yogurt production. The first yogurt production plant dates back to 1919 and was located in Barcelona. The name of the first company producing this product was "Danone."
In reality, references to the use of yogurt are lost in the mists of time. Traces of yogurt use date back to the Phoenicians, Greeks, and Romans, but the Arabs certainly used it too. It is even mentioned in a tale from the Arabian Nights.
However, it would be wrong to think of yogurt as just the product we are used to seeing in the supermarket's refrigerated section. In Russia, for example, koumiss is fizzy and very acidic.

