name:
Omelette Roll with Ham and Scamorza
ingredients:
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 6- medium
Salt: to taste
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 ml)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste- for grating
Prague cooked ham: 6.4oz(180 g)
Smoked scamorza cheese: 6.4oz(180 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)- to grate
Butter: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Prepare the béchamel with the indicated ingredients by following the recipe you will find by clicking Béchamel sauce Once ready, put it in a small bowl and in the meantime prepare the omelettes by beating the eggs in a bowl with salt and pepper ; melt half of the butter in a non-stick pan (with a diameter of 9 inches) then pour in half of the prepared egg mixture .
Cook this mixture on both sides (use a lid to help flip the omelette), and when the omelette is ready, place it on a plate that can hold it . Do the same for the second half of the egg mixture. Take the omelettes and spread on each of them, divided, the béchamel mixture . Arrange half of the Prague ham slices on each omelette ,
and on top, half of the thinly sliced smoked scamorza (perhaps using a slicer), as many as needed to cover the cooked ham. Roll the omelette tightly and prepare the second one in the same way, then wrap the rolls in aluminum foil and let them rest for at least an hour in the refrigerator.
After the necessary time, remove the rolls from the aluminum and cut them into slices about 0.4 inches thick . Butter 4 single-portion baking dishes and sprinkle them with breadcrumbs ; for each baking dish, arrange the slices of half a roll slightly overlapping, in a spiral. Sprinkle the surface of each baking dish containing the omelette slices with grated Grana Padano DOP and bake for about 15 minutes at 356°F under the preheated oven grill. Then serve your omelette rolls with ham and scamorza hot in the baking dishes themselves.
If you wish, instead of Grana Padano DOP and butter, you could partially cover the baking dishes with a few tablespoons of béchamel, and a pinch of chopped chives or parsley.
Regarding Prague ham, it can be said that Trieste has actually saved its production, as this cold cut, born in the beautiful city on the Vltava, has not been produced there for several years. Friuli Venezia Giulia has instead become its second home, as its production continues precisely in the city of Trieste.

