name:
Cherry Jam
ingredients:
Cherries: 2.9lbs(1.3 kg)- (to be pitted)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Lemons: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 33
Note + the time for maceration and jar sanitization

instructions:
To prepare the cherry jam, start by removing the stems from the cherries. Wash them well , then dry them and cut them in half, removing the pit (this will yield about 2.2 lbs of cherries). Place the cherries in a bowl and add the sugar, lemon zest, and 3 tablespoons of lemon juice . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rest for at least 6 hours or overnight in a cool, dry place or in the refrigerator. After this time, remove the lemon zest .
Put the fruit in a large saucepan and cook over medium heat for about an hour, stirring occasionally and removing the foam that forms on the surface with a skimmer . While the jam is cooking, focus on sanitizing the jars and lids, as indicated by the guidelines from the Ministry of Health provided at the end of the recipe. Once you've completed this step, return to the jam and check its doneness: it will be ready when, dropping a bit onto a tilted plate, it doesn't run but remains compact, homogeneous, and without streaks. Then pass the jam through a food mill . However, if you like fruit pieces, you can leave it as is or process about half. At this point, pour the still hot jam into the sanitized jars, taking care to leave 1/2 inch of space from the jar's edge. Screw the sanitized lids on well but not too tightly and let them cool. The heat of the jam will create a vacuum that will allow the product to be stored for a long time. Once the jars have cooled, check if the vacuum was successful: press the center of the lid, and if you don't hear the typical "click-clack" sound, the vacuum was successful. Your cherry jam is ready to be enjoyed!
Cherry jam keeps for about 3 months, provided the vacuum was successful and the jars are stored in a cool, dry place away from light and heat sources. It's recommended to wait at least 2-3 weeks before consuming the jam. Once opened, each jar should be kept in the refrigerator and consumed within 3-4 days at most.
The amount of sugar can be adjusted depending on the type of cherry used: if it's a bit sour, you can add more sugar, while if it's very sweet, you can reduce it.
Did you know that according to a study by Michigan State University, a diet rich in cherries keeps heart attacks and vascular diseases at bay? It seems that these fruits have properties similar to aspirin.
The homemade preparation of preserves and jams can pose health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of food, which, on the other hand, industrial procedures are able to guarantee to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to scrupulously follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but one must always remember that the same level of safety as professionally produced preserves and jams cannot be achieved. For proper preparation of homemade preserves, refer to the guidelines from the Ministry of Health .

