name:
Liver with balsamic vinegar, pine nuts, and raisins
ingredients:
Veal liver: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Balsamic vinegar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Red wine: 2tbsp(30 g)
Leeks: 1.8oz(50 g)
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(20 g)
Raisins: 2tbsp(20 g)
Butter: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)
Fine salt: ¾tsp(5 g)
Black pepper: 1pinch
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)- for dusting

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the liver with balsamic vinegar, pine nuts, and raisins, start by pouring cold water into a bowl with the raisins, letting them soak to rehydrate for at least 30 minutes. Then move on to preparing the sauce: take the leek and remove the ends . Then cut it into thin rings .
In a wide-bottomed non-stick pan, melt the butter over low heat . Once completely melted, add the leek . Let it cook for about 7-8 minutes before adding the balsamic vinegar .
Mix the ingredients well while letting the vinegar evaporate: this will take 2-3 minutes. Once completely evaporated, transfer the ingredients to a high-sided container and blend them with an immersion mixer : you need to obtain a smooth cream, which you will pour back into the pan where you cooked the leek .
Flour the slices of liver and heat them in the pan with the sauce . Sear them for 4 minutes, then turn the slices over and cook them on the other side for an additional 4 minutes. Then deglaze with the red wine : let it evaporate.
Now drain the raisins and add them to the meat . Season with salt and pepper. In another pan, toast the pine nuts .
Finally, add them to the liver . Then plate the sauce obtained and top it with one or two slices of meat. Your liver with balsamic vinegar, pine nuts, and raisins is ready to be served !
We recommend enjoying the liver with balsamic vinegar, pine nuts, and raisins while still warm. If there are leftovers, store them in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for no more than 2 days.
We do not recommend freezing.
Not a fan of leeks? Use shallots instead! To enrich the preparation, you can also use pistachios or replace the pine nuts with them!

