name:
Pork Meat Ragout
ingredients:
Tomato purée: 6.3cups(1.5 l)
Pork: 1.1lbs(500 g)- minced
Red wine: 1 ½cup(350 ml)
Onions: 4.2oz(120 g)
Celery: 4.25oz(120 g)
Carrots: ½cup(120 g)
Tomato paste: ¾cup(180 ml)
Salt: to taste
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Meat broth: 0.4cup(100 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 3 h
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pork ragout, first prepare the Beef Broth . Then move on to the sauté: clean and finely chop carrot, celery, and onion . In a pan, add the butter and let it melt over very low heat, then add the oil and let it heat for a few moments.
Then add the finely chopped vegetables . Sauté and let the onion brown, add 1-2 ladles of meat broth to aid cooking . After about 15 minutes, add the ground meat
and let it brown well for about ten minutes, breaking it up with a spatula or a wooden spoon. Add a little vegetable broth, then add the red wine and let it evaporate over moderate heat. When the wine has evaporated, add the tomato puree ,
stir and let it flavor for a few minutes. When the ragout has resumed boiling, add the tomato paste , mix it into the ragout, salt
and pepper to taste, and let everything cook over low heat for about 3 hours (you can use a splatter screen to let it boil without covering it) or however long it takes to thicken . When the pork meat ragout is ready, you can adjust the salt if necessary and use it as a sauce for pasta dishes or lasagna .
You can store the pork meat ragout in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 2-3 days.
It can be frozen for about 1 month if you have used fresh, not defrosted ingredients.
In the pork meat ragout, you can also avoid adding pepper (or chili pepper) if you don't like it or if you expect children to eat it; instead, you can add some fragrant grated nutmeg, which will give a delicious aroma to your ragout.
Meat ragout is a very popular sauce throughout Italy, but the most famous are the Bolognese ragout and the Neapolitan one. The ragout was traditionally a Sunday dish, and its origins are attributed to the wealthy noble families at whose courts the most celebrated and inventive cooks worked, who were able to create such goodness thanks to the richness of their patrons' kitchens.

