name:
English Cream
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1.4cups(330 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 6oz(170 g)
Egg yolks: 5oz(140 g)- (about 8)
Vanilla bean: 1
Lemon peel: 1- untreated
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus cooling time

instructions:
English cream is a classic dessert with a delicate taste and velvety texture; unlike custard , English cream does not contain flour; therefore it is more fluid and is an excellent sauce to serve (even warm) in a cup, accompanied for example by cat tongues , which you can prepare with the egg whites used in the recipe. And for the more gluttonous, this cream is also perfect to accompany mug cake or leavened pastries like Easter Dove Cake and Panettone . But English cream is not just this, in fact, it is one of the most used bases in pastry to prepare many desserts such as chocolate mousse , ice creams or semifreddos!
To prepare English cream, first, cut a vanilla bean, extract the seeds , and set them aside. Then pour milk and cream into a saucepan , add the pod without the seeds
and the grated zest of a lemon . Place on the stove and bring the milk just to the boiling point. Transfer the slightly beaten egg yolks to another saucepan ,
add the vanilla seeds and the sugar . Stir gently with a spatula, trying not to incorporate air, and also add the salt .
Stir again, always very slowly, until you get a homogeneous cream . As soon as the milk and cream start to boil, strain them directly into the saucepan with the yolk mixture , so as to retain the pod. Stir always with the spatula
and bring the cream back to the heat . Continue to stir slowly to avoid incorporating air, until you reach a temperature of 180°F. The most important thing is not to exceed 185°F. If you do not have a kitchen thermometer, just immerse a spoon in it; if, when you take it out, the cream coats the back, it means it is ready. Strain it again into a clean bowl to stop the cooking.
To speed up cooling, place the bowl inside another larger bowl with ice. As soon as it is no longer hot, cover with cling film in contact and let it cool completely in the refrigerator before serving and enjoying .
Store English cream in the refrigerator covered with cling film for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended because once thawed, the cream would not be as smooth as freshly made.
If your English cream 'curdles,' forming unsightly lumps, try to recover it by immediately pouring it into another cold pot; add a tablespoon of cold water to the curdled cream, mix the blend, and then strain it through a fine sieve to retain any lumps. You can slightly thicken English cream by dissolving 1 tablespoon of cornstarch in cold water and mixing it with the blend on the heat, then letting it thicken.

