name:
Chocolate and Chili Mousse
ingredients:
Dark chocolate 60-69%: 10.6oz(300 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 2
Eggs: 3- very fresh
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.6cup(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the infusion time for the milk and the cooling of the mousse

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate and chili mousse, start by cleaning the latter. Cut it in half lengthwise, remove the seeds with the tip of a knife, and chop it coarsely . Add it to the cream , which you will bring to a boil and then let it rest for two hours so that the chili releases its properties .
After this time, strain the cream discarding the surface film and the chili , then heat it again on very low heat. Chop the 60% dark chocolate into thin flakes and melt it in a double boiler : if you don't have the appropriate utensil, you can put the chocolate in a bowl to be placed in a pot filled with a small amount of boiling water.
When the chocolate has completely melted, remove it from the double boiler and add the hot cream in a thin stream . Setting aside the egg whites, add the egg yolks, carefully mixing the mixture . Separately, place the egg whites and sugar in a stand mixer ,
then operate until you obtain a firm and thick foam . Add the whipped egg whites to the chocolate a little at a time, folding them in with upward movements to keep them intact . At this point, fill one or more bowls of your choice with the cream and let them set in the refrigerator for at least 3 hours.
After the necessary time, whip the cold cream from the refrigerator with electric beaters and decorate the now ready mousses using a star-tipped piping bag . Finish the decoration by distributing sugar hearts : your chocolate chili mousse is ready!
Due to the presence of raw eggs, it is recommended to consume the mousse within 24 hours. Freezing is not recommended.
It was at the court of Emperor Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin (Montezuma) that the use of cocoa and "xocolatl", a beverage that gave strength and unsuspected energy, began. Chocolate was then consumed bitter, cold, and spicy, while it was only in the 1700s that the pleasure of enjoying it hot and sweetened was consolidated. It was in the 1800s that the first bars were introduced, made by grinding and drying a granular mixture.
Be generous with the chili if you desire a more intense spiciness, and depending on the occasion, have fun decorating and enriching your mousse with what you like, what your partner likes, or whom you will serve it to: walnut crumbles, caramelized hazelnuts, chocolate flakes, fruit...
Before serving this mousse, leave it at room temperature for about half an hour so that it becomes soft and fully recovers its aroma. Decorate it only at the last moment!

