name:
Rich Spinach with Béchamel
ingredients:
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Onions: ½
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Spinach: 15cups(1.5 kg)
Fine salt: to taste
Whole milk: 2cups(500 ml)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Nutmeg: to taste- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare rich spinach with béchamel, start by cleaning and washing the spinach (or get fresh spinach already washed, bagged, and ready to cook). After washing the spinach, boil them over medium heat (for about 5-6 minutes) with the water that the spinach retained during washing, covering the pot with a lid . Once cooked, squeeze them well to remove excess water .
Roughly chop the spinach . Sauté the chopped onion over very low heat with two tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil , and as soon as the onion becomes transparent (it will take at least 10 minutes), add the spinach and sauté them for a few seconds over low heat .
Meanwhile, prepare the béchamel (for more details, see the Béchamel sauce recipe). Start by heating the milk (without boiling it) and add a pinch of salt and nutmeg . In another pot, melt the butter
and add the sifted flour, cooking it all for a few minutes, stirring continuously and preventing it from sticking . You will then have obtained what the French call roux. At this point, remove the pot from the heat and add the hot milk to the roux, stirring everything with a wooden spoon . Then put the pot back on the heat, cooking on low flame until the sauce begins to boil. Cover the pot with a lid and cook the béchamel, always on low heat, for 15 minutes, the time necessary to thicken the sauce, stirring occasionally . After this, your béchamel is ready,
add the grated Grana Padano cheese, give a final stir, and remove the mixture from the heat . Add the béchamel to the spinach, mix everything well, and adjust the salt . Your rich spinach with béchamel is ready, serve it hot .
Store the rich spinach with béchamel in the refrigerator for a maximum of a couple of days, tightly sealed. Rich spinach with béchamel can be frozen. Once thawed, just sauté them in a pan for a minute to revive them.
To prepare rich spinach with béchamel, we recommend cooking the spinach with a brief steam cooking, or as we suggest in this recipe, using the water from the last wash. This will prevent the virtues of these vegetables, which are usually boiled in water, from being lost. To further enrich this side dish, you can sprinkle it with grated Grana Padano or add cubes of mozzarella at the end of the preparation.
It is said that Catherine de' Medici, when she married Henry of Valois and left Florence, brought with her to the French court all her cooks, including someone specialized in spinach preparation, her favorite vegetable; since then, French dishes served on a bed of spinach are called "a la florentine".

