name:
Whole wheat gnocchetti with pesto and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Whole grain flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Semolina: to taste
Genoese pesto (Basil sauce): 1cup(300 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Taggiasca olives: 3.5oz(100 g)
Pine nuts: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the whole wheat gnocchetti with pesto and cherry tomatoes, start by boiling the potatoes in water for about 30-40 minutes, or until they are soft . Once cooked, press them while still hot using a potato ricer without peeling them, then season with a pinch of salt . Transfer the puree onto a work surface and add the flour .
Incorporate the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP and begin to gather the ingredients with a fork , then knead by hand until you obtain a homogeneous dough .
Take portions of the dough and form into rolls, cut them into pieces about 1/2 inch . Transfer the gnocchetti to a floured tray and set them aside. Now, prepare the sauce: wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half . In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil with the garlic clove, then add the cherry tomatoes .
Salt , pepper , and also add the taggiasca olives . Cook over medium heat for a few minutes, until the cherry tomatoes are soft and wilted.
Remove the garlic , transfer the cherry tomatoes to a pitcher and add the basil . Blend everything with an immersion blender until you get a smooth cream without lumps .
Pass the tomato cream through a sieve to make it smoother . Now you can cook the whole wheat gnocchetti: bring a large pot of salted water to a boil and drop in the gnocchi .
Boil for a few minutes and, once the gnocchi rise to the surface, scoop them out with a slotted spoon and transfer them to a bowl. Dress with the pesto and stir .
Everything is ready to serve: in a plate pour a couple of tablespoons of sauce , then arrange the gnocchi in the center and garnish with the pine nuts and basil leaves. The whole wheat gnocchetti with pesto and cherry tomatoes are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the whole wheat gnocchetti with pesto and cherry tomatoes immediately.
You can prepare the cherry tomato sauce in advance and store it in the fridge for a couple of days.
You can also make the gnocchi ahead of time and freeze them. Then just cook them in boiling water directly from frozen.
For the sauce, you can use other types of cherry tomatoes such as cherry or Pachino.
You can skip the step of sieving the cherry tomato cream, it will have a more rustic consistency but will be equally delicious!
It's important to press the potatoes while they are still hot, this way they will absorb less flour.

