name:
Delicious Cocoa Cake
ingredients:
Butter: 1.1cups(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 8- medium
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 2.8oz(80 g)
Baking powder: 2 ½tsp(12 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 0.8cup(80 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Sugar: ¾cup(165 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(125 g)
Water: ⅔cup(150 g)
Glucose syrup: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.25oz(7 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 0.9cup(75 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.625cup(150 g)
Dark chocolate: 10.6oz(300 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time for the glaze and ganache in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare the delicious cocoa cake, start with the batter: separate the yolks from the whites ; in a stand mixer (you can also use an electric beater) add the butter in pieces and half of the powdered sugar . Work the mixture until it becomes homogeneous and frothy, then add the yolks little by little , keeping the mixer running until they are completely combined.
Remove the seeds from a vanilla pod by slicing it lengthwise and scraping the inside with the blade of a small knife ; sift the unsweetened cocoa and add it to the butter and egg mixture , also add the vanilla pod seeds .
Separately, whip the egg whites with the remaining half of the powdered sugar (7-8), then gently fold them into the rest of the mixture, mixing from top to bottom .
Also add the sifted flour together with the baking powder, little by little using a spoon , mix carefully and finally add the chocolate chips . Brush a 11-inch diameter cake pan with butter and dust with flour.
Then pour the batter and level it with a spatula without tapping the cake pan to avoid deflating the mixture. Bake in a preheated static oven at 347°F for about 45 minutes (311°F for about 35 minutes if using a convection oven). When the cake is cooked, remove it from the oven and let it cool slightly, then unmold it by turning it upside down and let it cool completely on a rack .
Meanwhile, prepare the cocoa glaze: soak the gelatin in a bowl of cold water for at least 10 minutes. Then in a large saucepan, pour the cream, add the water , glucose , and sugar : stir and bring to a boil over low heat.
Then turn off the heat and add the cocoa powder , stir and return to low heat to bring the mixture back to a slight boil. Let it cool for a few minutes, then carefully squeeze out the previously soaked gelatin sheets and add them to the glaze , stirring until the gelatin is completely dissolved. Pour the glaze into a tall container
and blend it . You can store the glaze in the refrigerator to cool for at least 1 hour. After the necessary time, you can pour the glaze over the cake (keeping the cake on the rack and placing a tray underneath will allow you to cover it evenly and not dirty the work surface). Spread the glaze on the surface and sides using a spatula . Then put the cake in the fridge for a few minutes to allow the glaze to set.
Meanwhile, prepare the ganache for decorating: in a saucepan, pour the cream and add the dark chocolate , turn on the low heat and stir to completely melt the chocolate . Once ready, turn off the heat and let the ganache cool completely by pouring it into a cold bowl immersed in a larger bowl with ice (this will cool the ganache without altering its consistency), then place it in the refrigerator covered with cling film in contact; once cold, whip the ganache with a stand mixer or an electric beater and then pour it into a piping bag with a star tip, to decorate all around the edge of the delicious cocoa cake before serving !
You can store the delicious cocoa cake for 1-2 days in the refrigerator; you can take it out of the fridge 15-20 minutes before serving.
It can be frozen if you used fresh, non-defrosted ingredients.
You can decorate the cake with tufts of sweetened whipped cream, on which to place various decorations; if you prefer freehand decorations, you can prepare white glaze (only with powdered sugar and boiling water) and with the help of a paper cone or parchment paper (made by yourself), you can decorate or write whatever you most desire. Another idea to decorate the cake could be to use peeled and halved almonds to form a design of your choice; but be careful! The glaze must not already be dry, as in this case, the almonds will not adhere to the surface.
You can serve this cake accompanying each slice with fresh whipped cream and strawberry sauce, to make this dessert even more delicious and inviting.

