name:
Marinated Anchovies
ingredients:
Anchovies: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (frozen)
Garlic: ¾tsp(4 g)
Lemon juice: 0.6cup(150 g)
Parsley: 4tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 10tbsp(140 g)
Black pepper: to taste
White wine vinegar: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the marinating time of the fish

instructions:
To prepare the marinated anchovies, start with the marinade: in a mixer, add the parsley along with a clove of garlic , and 3 tablespoons of olive oil , and blend everything for a few moments .
Squeeze the lemons , and collect the juice in a container with the olive oil and season with salt and black pepper .
Mix well using a whisk or the tines of a fork, and when the two mixtures have combined , add the parsley mixture .
Continue mixing with the whisk , then set aside the marinade . Meanwhile, proceed to the How to Clean Anchovies ; since these will not undergo any cooking, it is very important to ensure they have been properly frozen at the time of purchase (always choose fresh anchovies to buy at your trusted fish market); for greater safety, it is recommended to freeze for at least 96 hours at 0°F (-18°C) (already gutted) and then thaw to use in the recipe.
Wear disposable latex gloves, then remove the head , then run your thumb along the belly to open them like a book, so you can then bone them by pulling away the central bone and cleaning out the innards , finally rinse the fillets under a stream of water (to remove all impurities), being very careful not to split the fish into two halves .
Arrange the well-cleaned anchovy fillets in a large container side by side and pour the marinade you prepared , then cover with plastic wrap. Leave to rest for at least 5 hours at room temperature .
After the necessary time has passed, remove the plastic wrap and pour in the white wine vinegar , mix , and finally, lightly drain them from the marinade and arrange the marinated anchovies on a serving plate to serve and enjoy them as an appetizer !
It is recommended to consume the marinated anchovies immediately; you can store the marinated anchovies in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for up to 1 day.
You can freeze the anchovies after gutting and cleaning them, on a tray covered with plastic wrap, and when they are hardened, you can transfer them to a freezer bag and keep them frozen for at least a week before using them for your marinated preparations.
Do you like spicy flavors? Add fresh chili pepper cut into slices to the marinade along with a few seeds!
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze for at least 96 hours at 0°F (-18°C) in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .
By "marinate" we mean a preparation used to flavor, preserve, and soften fish but also meat. In ancient times the brining system was used: hence "sea water," thus "marinade." Over time, however, the technique has been refined using white wine vinegar, often accompanied by lemon juice that "cooks" the meat slightly. However, salt is almost never added to the marinade because it causes the juices to seep out of the meat, "cooking" it; however, if the necessary marinade should exceed 48 hours, then it would be appropriate to add it to extend the shelf life of the food.

