name:
Seville Bitter Orange Marmalade
ingredients:
Oranges: 4.4lbs(2 kg)- bitter (Seville)
Water: 12 ¾cups(3 l)
Lemon juice: 2
Sugar: 14.9cups(3 kg)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Note + the time for sterilizing the jars

instructions:
First, wash the oranges thoroughly and cut them in half, then squeeze them with a juicer and collect the juice in a saucepan. Set aside the seeds by collecting them in a muslin bag. Thoroughly empty the oranges with a spoon, collecting the pulp and seeds. At this point, cut the orange peels into strips and add them to the juice in a non-stick pot; then, add the bag with the seeds, cover everything with water, and let it cook for 2 hours.
While the marmalade is cooking, sanitize the jars and lids as indicated in the Ministry of Health guidelines at the end of the recipe.
Remove the bag with the orange pulp and squeeze it with a spoon to release the excess juice. Add the sugar, the juice from 2 lemons, and stir with a wooden spoon until the sugar has completely dissolved. Bring everything to a boil, skim, and cook for at least another 5 minutes. Turn off the heat, stir well to distribute the orange peels evenly, and immediately pour, while still hot, into the sanitized glass jars, taking care to leave 1 cm (about 3/8 inch) of space from the jar's rim. Screw the sanitized lids well but not too tightly and let them cool. The heat from the marmalade will create a vacuum, allowing the product to be stored for a long time. Once the jars have cooled, check if the vacuum has been correctly formed: you can press in the center of the lid, and if you do not hear the classic "click-clack," the vacuum has been achieved. Your Seville bitter orange marmalade is ready to be enjoyed!
Seville bitter orange marmalade can be stored for about 3 months, provided the vacuum has been properly formed and the jars are kept in a cool, dry place, away from light and heat sources. It is recommended to wait at least 2-3 weeks before consuming the marmalade. Once opened, each jar should be stored in the refrigerator and consumed within 3-4 days at most.
If you want to make your marmalade less sour, you can use half Seville oranges and half regular oranges, although obviously, the result will not be the same. The orange peels do not necessarily have to be cut into strips; you can easily decide to cut them into cubes or small pieces, as you prefer.
Strange but true? Despite this delicious marmalade being famous not only in the United Kingdom but also in many other countries around the world, in the city that produces the particular oranges it is made from, namely Seville, it is neither eaten nor prepared at all, and in fact, the very sour oranges are left to rot on the ground, even on sidewalks.
Homemade preserves and marmalades may present health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the necessary conditions and measures to ensure the safety and suitability of the food, which, on the other hand, industrial procedures can ensure to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to scrupulously follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it must always be kept in mind that the same food safety as professionally produced preserves and marmalades cannot be achieved. For proper preparation of homemade preserves, refer to the Ministry of Health guidelines .

