name:
Strawberry Jam
ingredients:
Strawberries: 3.3cups(500 g)
Sugar: 0.7cup(140 g)
Lemon juice: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 19
Cost: Average
Note + 7 h of strawberry maceration and the time for jar sanitization

instructions:
To prepare the strawberry jam, start with the strawberries: select them very ripe, then gently wash them under running water, without immersing them directly in water. Remove the stems and slightly dry them with a kitchen towel. Squeeze a lemon and collect the juice in a glass . Place the strawberries in a large stainless steel pot and add the sugar .
Add the lemon juice as well and mix everything well with a spatula until the sugar is completely blended. Cover with a lid and let it macerate for at least 7 hours but not more than 12 hours. Once this time has passed, you can proceed with sanitizing the jars and lids as indicated in the health ministry guidelines provided at the bottom of the recipe.
After the maceration time, put the pot with the strawberries on the heat and bring to a boil, stirring occasionally with a spatula . If necessary, skim the mixture so that your jam doesn't look cloudy, and let it boil over moderate heat for 30-40 minutes , stirring gently not too often, until it reaches 226°F. Use a kitchen thermometer to measure the exact temperature.
Then proceed to jar your jam, still hot, in the sanitized jars , making sure to leave about 1/2 inch of space from the rim of the jar. Screw on the lids well but not too tightly and let cool . With the heat of the jam, a vacuum will be created, allowing the product to be preserved for a long time. Once the jars have cooled, check if the vacuum has occurred correctly: you can press the center of the lid, and if you don't hear the classic "click-clack," the vacuum has occurred. Your strawberry jam is ready to be enjoyed!
Strawberry jam can be stored for about 3 months, provided the vacuum has occurred correctly and the jars are stored in a cool, dry place, away from sources of light and heat. It is advisable to wait at least 2-3 weeks before consuming the jam. Once each jar is opened, store in the refrigerator and consume within 3-4 days at most.
Strawberries contain very little pectin, a natural substance present in varying amounts in fruits that contributes to the thickness of jams during cooking. Therefore, strawberry jam will be quite liquid without the addition of a thickener: if you prefer it thicker, it is advisable to extend the cooking time. To check the consistency of the jam, you can take a drop with a spoon and let it fall onto a saucer: by tilting the saucer, and seeing how the drop of jam "slides," you will verify the product's consistency.
Homemade preparation of preserves and jams can present health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of food, which, on the other hand, industrial procedures can ensure to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to strictly follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it must always be kept in mind that you will never achieve the same food safety that professionally produced preserves and jams offer. For correct preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the health ministry guidelines .

