name:
Pumpkin soup with shrimp
ingredients:
Pumpkin: 3cups(700 g)- pulp
Leeks: 1
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(200 ml)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Shrimps: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Brandy: 1.1cups(250 ml)
White wine: 1.7oz(50 ml)
Shrimps: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (heads and shells)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
White wine: 1.3tbsp(20 ml)
Chives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
The first thing to do to prepare the pumpkin soup with shrimp is to clean the shrimp, detach the head and shell from the shrimp and remove the intestine , for more details click How to clean shrimp (Shrimp cleaning), set aside the shells and use them to prepare the stock that will flavor the soup. In a pot, put the oil, garlic clove, and chili pepper, and fry for a couple of minutes
then add the shrimp shells and let them flavor in the oil , then add the white wine, let it evaporate, and add the water (5-6).
and let it cook for about half an hour. In the meantime, take care of the pumpkin, cut it into slices, remove the skin and cut it into small pieces, preferably all of the same size . Then clean the leek, removing the green parts and the outer leaves, then slice it .
Next, in a large, shallow pot, melt the butter and add the leeks , let them soften for a couple of minutes, and then add the pumpkin . Salt and pepper and cook for about ten minutes ,
gradually adding the filtered shellfish stock . In another non-stick pan, heat the oil with the other garlic clove and quickly sauté the previously cleaned shrimp
season them with salt and pepper , and deglaze with brandy and white wine and let it evaporate. Let them flavor for a couple of minutes, then turn off the heat.
When the pumpkin is completely softened, transfer it to a mixer with the shrimp , add the cream , and blend until you get a smooth cream .
add a ladle of stock if you want a creamier consistency that is not too liquid . Put the soup back in the pot, adjust with salt and pepper if needed, add a drizzle of oil , and add the chopped chives . Your warm pumpkin soup with shrimp is ready! Garnish with the remaining shrimp, sprinkle with finely chopped chives, and possibly a grind of pepper. Place the shrimp in the pan with a drizzle of oil and garlic, blend the soup with a bit of broth if necessary.
If you want, you can store the pumpkin soup with shrimp in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to one day.
If you want, you can set aside some shrimp to use for the final decoration of the dish! Shrimps, like all shellfish, must be very fresh when purchased, otherwise, it is much better to buy them frozen. Check that the shell does not have dark spots and does not come off easily, as this would mean the product is not fresh.
To preserve its qualities, pumpkin should never be boiled but preferably steamed, as this way it retains its vitamins and minerals. If a preparation requires the pumpkin to be pre-cooked or semi-cooked, then it is preferable to bake it, sliced, for 40-60 minutes at 356-392°F, before proceeding with the normal preparation; unfortunately, most of the time, due to time and practicality, this procedure is not followed.

