name:
Gnocchi with Cheese Sauce
ingredients:
Buckwheat flour: 2.1cups(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Fontina cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 1 h 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the gnocchi alla bava, start by sifting the all-purpose flour into a bowl. Then also sift the buckwheat flour into the same bowl . Add the water at room temperature to the flours. Using a fork, mix the flours with the water . Season with salt.
Continue mixing until the ingredients are combined, then knead the dough vigorously with your hands until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough with a soft but compact consistency. Form the dough into a ball . Cover the ball with plastic wrap and let it rest for at least 1 hour in a cool place at room temperature.
Now proceed with preparing the Fontina. Place the Fontina on a cutting board and remove the outer crust. Then cut the Fontina into slices by cutting horizontally through your piece of cheese, and subsequently cut it into cubes about 1/2 inch (1 cm) . Take a saucepan and pour in the milk . Heat and add the Fontina . Melt the Fontina on low heat, stirring well with a wooden spoon or spatula. The Fontina must melt completely and blend well with the milk without producing lumps. Season with pepper. When the Fontina is fully melted and lump-free, turn off the heat.
Now take the dough that you left to rest covered with plastic wrap. Lightly sprinkle it with flour to facilitate handling. Take a piece of dough . For each piece, form a stick about 1/2 inch (1 cm) thick and cut it into small pieces of the same size . Give each piece the classic gnocchi ridges using a wooden board or with the help of a fork . Alternatively, press each piece with your fingertip to create a small indentation in the center. Repeat this operation for each piece of gnocchi obtained.
Now take a pot, fill it with water, salt it, and bring to a boil. When the water boils, add the gnocchi. When the gnocchi rise to the surface, after about 3 or 4 minutes, they are ready; use a slotted spoon to drain them and place them in a bowl. Add the melted Fontina and milk to the gnocchi . Mix the gnocchi well with the sauce you prepared so that the gnocchi absorb the sauce and blend with it. Plate your gnocchi alla bava while still hot and... enjoy your meal!
Gnocchi alla bava should be eaten freshly made. They can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days in an airtight container.
Uncooked gnocchi can be frozen if placed in appropriate food storage bags.
Let's start with the gnocchi: these are phenomenal, so I recommend trying them. Alternatively, enjoy the sauce with classic potato gnocchi (for the recipe click Potato gnocchi ) or with a rustic variant by adding buckwheat flour. The sauce doesn't need it, but if you want to 'enhance' it, add 1.75 oz (50 g) of toma. Now onto the highlight, the cooking. If desired, you can gratinate the gnocchi alla bava in the oven: after cooking them in a pan, drain and place them in a baking dish, where you will sprinkle them with Fontina, butter, and Parmesan. Bake at 392°F (200°C) for a few minutes: when the Fontina is melted, take them out and enjoy: amazing!

