name:
Salmon medallions with green pepper
ingredients:
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Dry dessert wine: to taste
Salmon: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (4 slices about 3 cm thick each)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.1cups(250 ml)
Green peppercorns: 1spoonful- in brine
Onions: ½
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Basil: to taste
Tomato purée: 1cup(250 ml)
Fine salt: to taste
Shellfish: 8.8oz(250 g)- (prawns, shrimp, etc) scraps and shells
Onions: 1- small
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Cherry tomatoes: 0.67cup(100 g)
Brandy: 1small glass
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
First, prepare the shellfish broth: put the shells in a pan with butter and let everything brown, pressing well with a ladle to release the juices. Add the brandy and let it evaporate (1-2), then add the chopped vegetables and let them brown. Add enough hot water to completely cover the ingredients (at least 1 liter); add salt and reduce everything until you get 1 cup (250 ml) of liquid.
Strain the broth through a fine mesh strainer . At this point, add the heavy cream, placing the mixture on low heat so that it thickens (5-6).
While the shellfish broth is reducing, prepare a simple tomato sauce by placing 2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil, the tomato puree , and salt in a pan; boil gently so that the sauce thickens. When the sauce is ready, add fresh basil leaves and turn off the heat .
In the meantime, prepare the medallions with the salmon steaks, How to make meat and fish medallions to see how to do it. When the shellfish broth and tomato sauce are ready, chop the onion and place it in a pan with the butter and two tablespoons of oil , on very low heat, until it becomes golden; add the green peppercorns and add 3-4 tablespoons of tomato sauce .
Once combined, add the broth and cream mixture and cook for another five minutes . Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a pan and place the medallions.
Brown the medallions over high heat on both sides for no more than 5 minutes : sprinkle with dry white wine and let it evaporate; at this point add the sauce , cover the pan with a lid and finish cooking , no more than 10 minutes. Serve the salmon medallions drizzled with the cooking sauce.
We recommend consuming the salmon medallions with green pepper as soon as they are made, but if you wish, you can store them in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day, sealed in an airtight container.
Salmon is found in the western and eastern Atlantic and the Baltic Sea: its eggs are tiny (0.2-0.3 inches) but extremely numerous. In fact, a liter of water contains 5,000 to 7,000 of them. If you have any at home, you can add them as a decoration on the serving plate of this refined recipe to enhance it further.
If you prefer, you can use pickled pink peppercorns instead of green peppercorns, which are more tender and have a spicy but not sharp taste. Additionally, you can substitute the tomato puree with fresh, ripe tomatoes, diced, and added after cooking.

