name:
Shortcrust Pastry Cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4.4cups(550 g)
Butter: 1.1cups(250 g)- cold from the fridge
Powdered sugar: 1.67cups(200 g)
Eggs: 2
Lemon peel: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 14 min
Serving: 15
Cost: Low
Note + chilling time in the fridge (30 min.)

instructions:
To prepare the shortcrust pastry cookies, first place the flour in a mixer along with the cold butter from the fridge cut roughly into cubes . Blend intermittently to avoid warming the butter too much, until you achieve a sandy consistency. Add the powdered sugar and blend for a very short time.
Add the eggs and the grated lemon zest , then blend very quickly, just enough to combine the ingredients. Transfer the dough to the work surface and knead it with your hands as quickly as possible, just enough to achieve a smooth and homogeneous dough ball .
Wrap the dough in plastic wrap or a freezer bag , place it in the fridge and let it rest for at least 30 minutes. After this time, take the dough out and divide it into 4 parts, so it's easier to handle . Roll out sheets with a rolling pin to a thickness of about 0.39 inches (1 cm) .
Cut out the cookies using your chosen cookie cutters: with these amounts, we got about 60 flowers with a diameter of 2-2.4 inches (5-6 cm) . The scraps can be re-formed into a dough ball, but you'll need to let it rest in the fridge for at least 15 minutes before working with it. Arrange the cookies on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake in a fan oven at 356°F (180°C) for 12-14 minutes or until golden. Your shortcrust pastry cookies are ready, let them cool and decorate as you like !
Shortcrust pastry cookies can be stored in a closed container at room temperature for up to a week.
You can flavor the shortcrust pastry dough as you prefer: with grated orange zest, or with the seeds of a vanilla bean or other spices like cinnamon.
You can decorate the cookies with powdered sugar or dip them in melted dark chocolate and then decorate with sprinkles and sugar pearls!
Try making the cookies with other shortcrust pastry variations, such as Soft Shortcrust Pastry , Frolla Milano , or Whole wheat shortcrust pastry .

