name:
Schiaffoni (or paccheri) with seafood
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(50 g)
Garlic: 3cloves
Calamari (squid): 1.1lbs(500 g)
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Shrimps: 0.7lb(300 g)
Parsley: 2spoonfuls- to chop
Cherry tomatoes: 0.67cup(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
White wine: ½cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare schiaffoni (paccheri) with seafood, start with cleaning the seafood, beginning with the How to clean shrimp : remove the head and tail, then with your fingers remove the shell ; cut along the back and extract the internal intestine (the black thread) by gently pulling it out with kitchen tweezers (alternatively, you can use a toothpick).
Set the shrimp aside and move on to How to Clean and Open Mussels and clams. Rinse the mussels under running water ; with the back of a knife, remove all incrustations and barnacles (parasites that form on the shell) and with a firm motion, manually remove the beard (or byssus) that protrudes from the shells (to facilitate the operation, you can grab the byssus with a cloth). Still under fresh running water and using a steel scrubber (or a stiff brush), scrub the mussels vigorously to remove any impurities . Once cleaned, set them aside.
Check that the clams do not contain sand: tap each one on a cutting board on the opening side : if dark sand comes out, it means the clam is full of sand and should be discarded. Also, discard any with broken shells. Then place the clams in a colander over a bowl and rinse them several times under running water : finish when no more sand is visible in the bowl. Take the How to Clean Squid , detach the head and remove the internal cartilage ;
rinse them under running water and remove the skin and fins . Cut the squid into rings and set aside.
Sauté 2 cloves of garlic with a drizzle of oil in a non-stick pan . When the garlic is golden, remove it, then add the mussels and clams , adding 1.8 oz of white wine and seasoning with salt and pepper to taste.
Cook on high heat, covering with a lid , allowing the shellfish to open spontaneously : this will take about 5 minutes. After this time, check all the mussels and clams: those that have not opened should be discarded. Turn off the heat and drain them, reserving the cooking liquid, then separate the empty shells of the mussels and clams from the filled ones, keeping a few whole ones for the final presentation of the dish.
In a bowl, strain the shellfish cooking liquid, placing paper towels over a fine-mesh sieve , then set aside the liquid you obtained . In a non-stick pot, heat the oil with a clove of garlic, then add the squid cut into rings ;
deglaze with the remaining white wine and cook for 4 minutes, stirring everything with a spatula . Cut the cherry tomatoes in half and
add them to the squid, seasoning with salt and pepper and occasionally adding 1.8 oz of the shellfish cooking liquid you previously filtered . Continue cooking for another 4 minutes on low heat, covering with a lid, until the squid are very tender .
Subsequently, also add the shrimp . Place a pot on the stove with plenty of salted water that you'll use for the pasta; when the water is near boiling, cook the schiaffoni (or paccheri) for 15 minutes . Add the mussels and clams to the sauce and cook for another 4 minutes
When the pasta is ready, drain it and add it to the fish and cherry tomato sauce you prepared . Toss everything for 3 minutes, adding another 1.8 oz of the cooking liquid so that the pasta absorbs the flavor, finally sprinkle with chopped parsley ; turn off the heat. Your schiaffoni (or paccheri) with seafood are ready to be served . If you like, you can garnish the dish with the whole shellfish (clams and mussels) you set aside.
Consume the schiaffoni (or paccheri) with seafood immediately or you can store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container or well-covered with plastic wrap for 1-2 days at most. Freezing is not recommended.
Would you like to enhance your dish even more and give it a spicy touch? Add a pinch of chili pepper! But be careful not to overdo it, otherwise, you might overpower the taste of the fish and cherry tomatoes!

