name:
Stuffed Meat Cannelloni Umbrian Style
ingredients:
Egg cannelloni pasta: 24
Beef: 1.1lbs(500 g)- minced
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Onions: 1
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: 0.4cup(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Vegetable broth: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Thyme: 1sprig
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(60 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Butter: 2.8oz(80 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 2 h 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the Umbrian style stuffed meat cannelloni, put a pot of plenty of salted water on the stove which you will need for the Vegetable broth . Proceed with the preparation of the ragu: finely chop the onion, celery, and carrot , then also the thyme and rosemary leaves . Heat the oil in a large pot and add the chopped vegetables: the onion, carrots
and the celery , letting them stew for 7-8 minutes. Add the minced meat , and mix with a spatula .
Cook for 5-6 minutes, then add the thyme, chopped rosemary, and peeled garlic . Deglaze with white wine , season with salt and pepper, and add the vegetable broth :
cook for 1 hour and 30 minutes on very low heat, covering with a lid . Meanwhile, prepare the Béchamel sauce : heat the milk in a small saucepan ; separately, melt the butter over low heat ,
then turn off the heat and add the sifted flour in a shower , mixing with a whisk to avoid lumps. Put it back on low heat and stir until it turns golden to obtain the roux ; gradually add the hot milk to the roux , stirring vigorously with the whisk.
Flavor the milk with nutmeg and a pinch of salt and cook for 5-6 minutes over low heat until the sauce thickens and begins to boil. After the necessary time, pour half of the bechamel into the ragu ,
along with 100 grams of grated cheese and mix everything with a kitchen spatula. Evenly distribute a ladle of bechamel on the bottom of a baking dish measuring 14x9 inches, then put the ragu you prepared into a piping bag without a nozzle, to which you can make a hole. Then take the cannelloni and fill them one by one ,
placing them next to each other on the bechamel base as you prepare them . Once finished, cover everything with the remaining bechamel , distributing it evenly .
Finish by sprinkling with the remaining grated cheese , then bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 30 minutes (or at 320°F for 20 minutes if using a convection oven). After the necessary time, remove from the oven and serve the Umbrian style stuffed meat cannelloni hot .
You can store the Umbrian style stuffed meat cannelloni in the refrigerator in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
The Umbrian style cannelloni are wonderful, especially on those chilly winter Sundays: on the coldest days they can warm up the entire house! For tomato lovers: nothing prevents you from adding some good tomato passata to the bechamel, both in the filling and on the topping.
Did you know that cannelloni are the oldest pasta shape in the world? Many historians confirm this theory, as in ancient times rectangles of pasta were cut, filled, rolled up, and cooked: practically the ancestors of modern cannelloni!

