name:
Risotto with Pumpkin Flowers
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Zucchini: 6- with flowers
Vegetable broth: to taste
Dry white wine: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ¼cup(50 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)- (to grate)
Zucchini flowers: 20
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the risotto with pumpkin flowers, first separate the zucchini from their flowers. Cut the zucchini in half lengthwise , then slice them thinly to get half-moons . Clean the pumpkin flowers by removing the stem and the pistil. Tear the pumpkin flowers that you have detached from the zucchini into 2 or 3 parts, and simply open those that will be fried. Set aside.
Place the zucchini in a large pan with a drizzle of oil , salt, and pepper. Sauté over medium-high heat for about 5 minutes, then add their pumpkin flowers . Cover with a lid and let them stew for a couple of minutes .
Once cooked, transfer the zucchini with the flowers to a jug and blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream .
Proceed with cooking the rice: pour the rice into a saucepan , salt , and toast it dry. When the grains feel hot to the touch, deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate completely.
At this point, moisten the rice with a ladle of hot vegetable broth and add half of the zucchini cream . Mix well and cook the rice by adding a ladle of broth at a time, always waiting for the previous one to be absorbed.
Meanwhile, heat the seed oil to a temperature of 340°F and fry the pumpkin flowers for decoration, it will take 1-2 minutes . Once golden, drain them and transfer them to absorbent paper .
When the rice is cooked, turn off the heat and add the remaining zucchini cream, then cream with the ricotta , grated Pecorino cheese , and a drizzle of oil .
Mix well to combine and achieve the typical creamy texture . Plate and garnish with the fried pumpkin flowers . Your risotto with pumpkin flowers is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the risotto with pumpkin flowers immediately.
If you prefer to avoid frying, you can add the pumpkin flowers directly to the risotto during the last few minutes of cooking.

