name:
Pomegranate Chicken Strips
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.6lbs(720 g)
Pomegranate: 1.5lbs(700 g)- (about 2 whole)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4.1tbsp(60 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Mixed salad: 3 ½cups(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 40 minutes of marinating

instructions:
To prepare pomegranate chicken strips, start by cleaning the chicken breast. Remove the fat and tendons, cut it in half, and also remove the central bone and cartilage . Now divide it into two parts .
Cut each part into long strips about a quarter inch wide , which you can place in a bowl . Cut the pomegranates in half and peel them, removing the seeds. Be careful to eliminate the yellow parts and peels as they are very bitter. Keep aside the seeds of half a pomegranate for the final decoration.
Pour the pomegranate seeds into a food mill and collect the juice in a small bowl. Save a small portion of the juice for deglazing the chicken during cooking, and transfer the rest into the bowl with the chicken strips so they can marinate . Cover the bowl with transparent food wrap and let it marinate for at least 40 minutes in the refrigerator .
After the time has passed, let it drain in a fine-mesh strainer . Then transfer it to a tray lined with paper towels and pat it dry with kitchen paper .
In a non-stick pan, heat the oil; meanwhile, thoroughly flour the chicken and add it to the pan with the hot oil . Sear it over high heat for 2-3 minutes. Then add the pomegranate juice you set aside and let it evaporate.
Turn off the heat and add the whole pomegranate seeds . Finally, take a plate and arrange a bed of previously washed and well-dried mixed greens on which you can lay the chicken strips. The pomegranate chicken strips are now ready to be enjoyed !
This tasty dish can be consumed hot or warm. If any is left over, you can store it in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 1 day.
It is not recommended to freeze pomegranate chicken strips.
If you want to give a more intense flavor to this preparation, you can deglaze the chicken with brandy instead of pomegranate juice (which you will use entirely for the marinade and final decoration). The pomegranate is delicious but laborious to deseed: when cleaning the seeds, be sure to completely remove the whitish-yellow membrane covering them as it has a bitter taste.
Did you know that in Turkey, it was customary for brides, and still is for some, to throw a pomegranate fruit to the ground and count the number of seeds that came out of the fruit? This would indicate the number of children they would bear! Indeed, in ancient times, the pomegranate was associated with fertility due to the numerous red seeds inside. The Earth Goddess Demeter, for example, is often depicted with a pomegranate, and in Greece, during the festivals in honor of the Goddess, these delicious seeds were savored as a wish for fertility and prosperity.

