name:
Cod fritters with raisins
ingredients:
Desalted cod: 1lb(450 g)
Raisins: ½cup(80 g)
Water: 0.8glass(200 ml)- chilled
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: ½tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: 2sprigs- fresh
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 8 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the cod fritters with raisins, place the raisins in a bowl and cover them with lukewarm water to soften them ; let the raisins soak for at least 30 minutes to rehydrate. Then proceed with cleaning the fish. Take the desalted cod and use a knife to remove the skin . Cut the fish into strips ;
then chop it into small pieces with a knife . Place the chopped fish in a bowl and set it aside. Meanwhile, prepare the batter: in a container, add the cold water and the sifted flour .
Mix the batter well with whisks to avoid lumps until you achieve a thick and homogeneous mixture. Add the thyme leaves and season with salt and pepper .
After 30 minutes, drain and squeeze the raisins and add them to the mixture along with the yeast , continuing to mix with the whisks.
Finally, add the cod and use a spatula to mix all the ingredients well . Heat plenty of oil in a large pan and use a kitchen thermometer to ensure the temperature does not exceed 350°F-356°F. Carefully drop spoonfuls of the batter into the hot oil ; fry a few fritters at a time to prevent the oil temperature from dropping. Repeat the operation until the batter is finished: you should get about 22 cod and raisin fritters.
Cook the fritters for a few minutes and turn them several times with a fork, so they cook well inside and both sides become golden . When the fritters are golden and cooked through, remove them with a fork or slotted spoon and place them on kitchen paper to absorb the excess oil . Serve the cod fritters with raisins while still hot .
It is advised to consume the cod fritters with raisins hot and fresh. You can store them in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for up to 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
If you have salted cod, you will need to clean it well from salt and soak it 1 or 2 days before preparing the fritters, changing the water at least 3 times a day. You can make these tasty fritters with leftover fried or boiled cod from a previous meal, creating a very appetizing and delicious dish that everyone will love!

