name:
Sweet and Sour Ligurian Cod
ingredients:
Desalted cod: 1.4lbs(650 g)
Sugar: 5tsp(20 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Sage: 3leaves
White wine vinegar: 2tsp(10 g)
White wine: ½glass(100 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(30 g)- for dusting
Peanut seed oil: 2.1cups(500 g)- for frying

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + possible desalting time

instructions:
To prepare sweet and sour Ligurian cod, take the already desalted and skinned cod (if you use salted cod it will require at least 3 days of soaking as indicated in the cooking school guide: How to Desalt Cod ): start by cutting the fillet into pieces , once cut you can also remove all the bones with kitchen tweezers . When you have finished, flour all the pieces, shaking them gently to remove excess flour .
Meanwhile, pour plenty of seed oil into a high-sided pot and when it is hot, cook a couple of pieces at a time, for 4-6 minutes depending on thickness, at a temperature between 356°F and 374°F , until they are golden brown. As you cook the cod pieces, drain them on absorbent paper .
Prepare the sauce: peel and thinly slice the garlic cloves: a couple of millimeters will do and then cut the sage leaves into strips . In a pot, pour the white wine and add the garlic slices ,
the vinegar and finally the sugar and the sage , turn on the low flame and let the mixture heat well and the sugar dissolve .
As soon as the syrup is boiling, add the fried cod pieces and cook for another 5 minutes, turning them occasionally to flavor them well . When ready, plate your sweet and sour Ligurian cod pieces and serve hot !
It is recommended to consume sweet and sour Ligurian cod immediately; if you want, you can prepare the fried cod in advance and then add it to the sweet and sour syrup at the time. They can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap; however, in this case, it would be advisable not to put the cod back into the syrup.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can customize your sweet and sour Ligurian cod using the ingredients you prefer among pine nuts, raisins, capers, and even olives: but the choice is yours whether to use black or green ones!

