name:
Lemon Curd Tartlets
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Butter: 8tbsp(110 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Lemons: 3
Egg yolks: 2- (of medium eggs)
Cornstarch: 7tsp(30 g)
Sugar: 1.1cups(220 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
Make the tartlets: in the bowl of a stand mixer, combine the cold butter, sugar , and salt. Start mixing with the paddle attachment until you get a sandy consistency. In a bowl, sift the flour and grate the lemon zest . Add the flour and lemon zest to the mixture .
Continue mixing and also add the eggs . Once the eggs are incorporated, transfer everything to a wooden board and with your hands , compact everything by pressing the sides multiple times. Once you have obtained a homogeneous dough, cover with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours.
In the meantime, prepare the lemon curd by grating the zest of 3 lemons and squeeze and strain the juice , incorporate the sifted cornstarch .
Cut the butter into pieces, place it in a double-bottomed saucepan for a bain-marie and melt it over low heat, then add the sugar and stir with a spoon. Separately, beat the eggs with a whisk and pour them into the cream while continuing to stir, also add the lemon juice in which you have dissolved the cornstarch ,
the grated lemon zest , and continue stirring to thicken the cream over low heat, keep the heat very low and only let the water of the bain-marie simmer, to prevent the egg from curdling; the cream must never boil. To know when the cream is ready, just dip a wooden spoon in it, when you see that the cream no longer slides off, it's time to turn off the heat. Now take a very fine mesh sieve and strain the cream to remove the lemon peel and any lumps , cover with plastic wrap in contact and store in the refrigerator.
After resting, roll out the pastry to a thickness of about 1/4 inch , trying to use only the necessary flour to prevent it from sticking to the board. With a 3.5-inch diameter cookie cutter, cut out discs to line the 2.75-inch tartlet molds . With a smooth-blade knife, trim the edges .
Prick the bottom of the tartlets with a fork. From a sheet of parchment paper, cut squares the size of the tartlets and cover the bottom to then place dried beans or ceramic baking weights . Bake in the oven at 330°F for 30 min. Remove the dried beans and paper , and put back in the oven at 340°F for another 10 minutes to color the inside. Let cool, fill a piping bag with lemon curd, and fill the tartlets .
With a potato peeler, create strips of zest from a lemon, then cut them into fine julienne strips . Blanch them for a few seconds in water and drain them .
Heat in a pan 1.76 oz of sugar with 1.06 oz of water and when the sugar syrup reaches a boil, add the zest strips . After a minute, remove from heat and let cool. Transfer the lemon curd tartlets onto a tray and garnish them with the candied lemon zest .
Store lemon curd tartlets in the refrigerator for 2-3 days; they can also be frozen if desired.
Using blind baking will make the lemon's tart flavor more pronounced. On the other hand, if you bake the tartlets directly with the lemon curd inside, the flavor will be slightly more delicate.

