name:
Braised Short Ribs with Mashed Potatoes
ingredients:
Beef steak: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
White onions: 1
Red wine: 1glass
Balsamic vinegar: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Sage: 1sprig
Rosemary: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Potatoes: 0.75lb(300 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Whole milk: 0.167cup(40 g)
Chives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 2 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the braised short ribs with mashed potatoes, start with the meat, which requires a long cooking time: salt the short ribs already cut into pieces . In a pan, heat a drizzle of olive oil , then place the pieces of meat .
Sear over high heat , then remove the short ribs from the pan and set them aside in a baking dish . Peel and slice the onion .
In a saucepan, heat another drizzle of oil, add the onion and sauté for 3 minutes over low heat, then deglaze with 1.35 oz of balsamic vinegar . Stir to flavor .
Put the seared short ribs back in the pot and add the fresh aromatic herbs . Deglaze with the red wine and let all the alcohol evaporate.
Pour in a glass of water , cover with the lid , and cook for an hour and a half over low heat, stirring occasionally. Meanwhile, boil the potatoes in boiling water for about 30-40 minutes, or until they are soft .
Press the hot potatoes with the skin through a potato ricer , then transfer the puree to a saucepan with the butter and warm milk .
Salt and stir with a spoon to obtain a smooth and creamy mashed potatoes . Meanwhile, the meat will also be cooked .
Remove it from the pot and separate the meat from the bones , keeping the cooking juices aside . Blend the sauce with an immersion blender .
Return the cooking juices to the heat, pour in another 0.34 oz of balsamic vinegar , add the reserved meat , and let the sauce reduce until thick . Adjust the salt if necessary.
Serve on plates with a base of mashed potatoes on which to place the meat pieces . Finish by distributing the cooking juices over and adding fresh chopped chives. The braised short ribs with mashed potatoes is ready to be served !
Braised short ribs can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days, and you can also freeze it after cooking.
The mashed potatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days at most, keeping it well covered with plastic wrap. Before serving, simply heat it with a little milk. Freezing is not recommended.
For a more aromatic touch, you can add grated nutmeg to the mashed potatoes.

