name:
Neapolitan-style baked cod
ingredients:
Desalted cod: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 2 ½cups(600 g)- chopped
Salted capers: 0.75oz(20 g)
Gaeta olives: ¾cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 3cloves
Fine salt: 1pinch
Peanut seed oil: 3cups(650 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.75oz(50 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Parsley: 1sprig
Vegetable oil: 3cups(650 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the Neapolitan-style cod dish, first cook the tomato sauce: in a pan with a bit of extra virgin olive oil, sauté the peeled garlic , then add the chopped chili pepper , and after a couple of minutes of browning, add the tomato pulp and let it cook for about 15 minutes.


In the meantime, desalinate the capers by soaking them in a bowl with cold water and then drain them while waiting to add them to the pan. When the sauce is finished cooking, remove the garlic from the pan ,
then add the black olives and capers and mix everything together.
In the meantime, take the cod already desalted (if it was salted, you must leave it in water for 3 days, changing the water 2 or 3 times a day to desalinate it), remove the skin , and take out the bones using tweezers.
Cut it into 8 pieces , then in a bowl with flour, thoroughly coat each side, shaking off the excess flour by gently tapping it against the sides of the bowl containing the flour.
In a saucepan, pour the seed oil and fry it until it reaches a temperature of 356°F-374°F, then fry the cod pieces, ensuring the oil temperature doesn't drop abruptly, frying 2 pieces at a time, for about 2-3 minutes depending on the thickness. Once cooked, drain them on absorbent paper .
Add the cod to the sauce in the pan , let it simmer for a couple of minutes, then transfer the mixture into a baking dish , covering the cod with tomato, and finish cooking in a preheated oven at 320°F for 20 minutes. Take it out of the oven, garnish with chopped parsley, and your tray of Neapolitan-style cod is ready to be served!
If you want, you can enrich this recipe with potatoes, and to add an extra touch of flavor, you can include raisins, pine nuts, and oregano along with the parsley.

