name:
Garganelli with cream, ham and peas
ingredients:
Egg Garganelli pasta: 0.9lb(400 g)
Nutmeg: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Salt: ⅓tsp(2 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ⅓cup(100 ml)
Peas: 1cup(150 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 4.25oz(120 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.25oz(35 g)- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare garganelli with cream, ham, and peas, start by finely chopping a shallot . Now take a non-stick pan and pour in a drizzle of olive oil. Add the finely chopped shallot and let it soften over low heat . Stir the shallot occasionally to ensure it softens evenly .
Once the shallot has softened and turned golden, add the peas to the pan . In the meantime, boil plenty of water for the pasta in a pot and salt it. When the water returns to a boil, add the pasta. Continue cooking the peas by adding a tablespoon or ladle of cooking water as needed. Season with salt and pepper. Next, proceed with the ham. Cut it into strips and then into cubes .
Now take your cubed ham and add it to the peas cooking . Be sure to stir the peas and ham to blend the ingredients well. At this point, add the cream . Add a pinch of nutmeg and adjust the salt and pepper.
The garganelli will now be ready. Drain them and add them to the pan with the sauce you prepared . Toss them with the sauce and mix well so that the garganelli integrate with the sauce. Serve your garganelli with cream, ham, and peas while hot , sprinkle with Grana Padano PDO, and... enjoy!
Garganelli with cream, ham, and peas should be consumed hot, just after cooking. They can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 1 day.
If you're not a fan of garganelli, you can replace them with other pasta shapes, such as farfalle, tagliatelle, fusilli, or penne. The cooked ham can be cut into cubes (by purchasing a single thick slice of deli meat) or into strips (if you have thinly sliced cooked ham).
Garganelli gets their name from the Emilian dialect word "garganel," which refers to the chicken's esophagus that they resemble in shape. To make them at home, you had to roll out a sheet of dough, cut it into small squares, wrap them one by one around a stick, and roll them on a weaving comb, giving the pasta its characteristic ridges.

