name:
Sweet Pumpkin Fritters
ingredients:
Sugar: 0.8cup(160 g)
Orange peel: 2
Pumpkin: 2cups(500 g)- pulp
Eggs: 3- medium
Baking powder: 1 ¾tsp(8 g)
Type 0 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sunflower seed oil: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 50 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the sweet pumpkin fritters, first deal with the pumpkin which needs to be cut and cleaned of seeds. Cut it into 1/2-inch thick slices, wrap them in aluminum foil, and put them in the oven for an hour at 392°F , or to speed up the cooking process, cut it into cubes raw and cook it in the oven still wrapped with foil for 40 minutes at 392°F . Once cooked, put the pumpkin pulp in a blender
and add the eggs , sugar , and grated orange zest . Blend everything and pour the obtained mixture into a bowl.
Sift the yeast and flour into the mixture, mixing everything well until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough that you will transfer into a disposable piping bag with a plain nozzle.
At this point, heat the oil in a pan and form balls of dough about 3/4 inch in size, squeezing the piping bag from above. Since the dough will be soft but slightly sticky, use a small knife to detach it from the nozzle of the piping bag . Continue this way until the dough is finished , keeping in mind that the fritters, when falling into the oil, should be the size of a walnut. Wait for the fritters to puff up, then turn them with a ladle, and when they are well browned on all sides, remove them from the oil and place them on a plate lined with paper towels . Sprinkle the sweet pumpkin fritters with a bit of powdered sugar and serve them still warm!
Sweet pumpkin fritters are not suitable for storage. We recommend frying them and eating them while still warm.
This recipe, like many others, is part of that myriad of pumpkin recipes specifically designed for the Halloween period that have been very successful for their simplicity and goodness: click here to find many more!
Instead of powdered sugar, sprinkle the fritters with a dusting of sweetened cocoa powder... you'll love it!
Discover all our pumpkin recipes for Halloween to create a different menu every time!

