name:
Halloween Ghosts
ingredients:
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.6cup(75 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Salt: 1pinch
Eggs: 2- medium
Butter: 5.3tbsp(75 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Dark chocolate: 0.7oz(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the Halloween ghosts, sift the flour into a bowl and add the sugar , a pinch of salt, and the vanilla extract (or the seeds from a pod) .
Break the eggs with a fork in a small bowl , add them to the dry ingredients, and mix. Finally, melt the butter and add it to the mixture : blend everything until you get a creamy and lump-free mixture .
Line a baking tray with parchment paper and spread a teaspoon of the mixture on it, then with the back of the teaspoon and with circular movements, expand it to obtain a circle about 4 inches in diameter . Once the tray is filled, bake it in a preheated oven at 390°F for 5 minutes. As soon as the edges turn amber, remove the circles of dough from the oven, detach them from the paper with a steel spatula , and immediately place them (while still warm, otherwise they will harden) in creme caramel molds which will give them the characteristic ghost shape .
Let your little ghosts cool, then unmold them onto a plate and decorate them: melt the dark chocolate and transfer it into a piping bag, then draw eyes and mouths on each ghost, with different expressions (11-12). Finally, dust them with powdered sugar and your Halloween ghosts are ready!
Store the Halloween ghosts under a glass dome for 2-3 days.
This recipe is very popular in the U.S.A., and for a few years now, it has been spreading here in Italy as well.
Don't like dark chocolate? No problem: replace it with milk chocolate. Keep in mind, though, that I used dark chocolate because it dries faster and better, ensuring a better effect. 
A change that has no impact on the preparation is the color: add some drops of food coloring to the mixture, in the color you prefer, and your colorful ghosts are ready!

