name:
Sea Skewers
ingredients:
Calamari (squid): 1.1lbs(500 g)- already cleaned
Squid: 10.5oz(300 g)- (about 8)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Shrimps: 8
Cherry tomatoes: 8
White wine: 3tbsp(40 ml)
Fine salt: to taste
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(50 g)
Parsley: 3spoonfuls- minced
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the sea skewers, start by cleaning the small squid: remove the tentacles and set them aside , empty the sac of the innards and clean it well. Open the sac of the small squid with a central cut and cut it into rectangular pieces .
If you have whole squid, clean them following the procedure you can How to Clean Squid (Squid Cleaning). Cut the squid into strips 0.5-1 inch wide and clean the shrimp by removing the head, the shell, and leaving the tail . With a small knife, cut the back of each shrimp to remove the black vein inside. Cut the cherry tomatoes in half .
Now assemble the skewers: take a strip of squid, skewer it with a skewer and alternate its folds with the small squid rectangles . Now continue with half a cherry tomato and a shrimp , again with a series of squid and small squid and finish with another half tomato and a tentacle of small squid . Continue like this for the other 7 skewers.
Prepare the breading: in a bowl, mix the breadcrumbs with the parsley and the garlic , sprinkle with pepper, and add a drizzle of oil . Roll the skewers in the breading on both sides .
Cook the skewers in a pan with 2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil over high heat for 5-6 minutes. Halfway through cooking, moisten with white wine and turn the skewers, continue cooking for another 5 minutes and your sea skewers will be ready!
The sea skewers should be consumed immediately.
Perfect for the whole family, sea skewers lend themselves to a thousand variations: in the type of fish (you can use whatever you prefer, ever thought of cuttlefish?); in calories (with the help of a hot grill instead of the pan with oil); in side dishes (children will surely enjoy some fried potatoes, adults perhaps rice, or a nice mixed salad).

