name:
Cima alla genovese
ingredients:
Veal: 4.5lbs(2 kg)- whole breast
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- to grate
Eggs: 8
Canned peas: 1.8cups(270 g)
Veal sirloin: 10.6oz(300 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Water: 8 ½cups(2 l)- approximately
Onions: 1- medium
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 3 h
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + one night of rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
To prepare Cima alla Genovese, you will need to obtain a whole piece of veal breast and make a central and deep cut, keeping a distance of about 3/4 inch from the edges, with a long and sharp knife to make a pocket (1-2). If you can, have your butcher prepare the pocket for you. Trim the fat from the outside of the meat .
Cut the veal topside into cubes and beat the eggs with a pinch of salt in a bowl . Add the cubed topside and
the pre-cooked peas, mix and finally add the grated cheese (7-8). Place a large pot on the stove with water and the cleaned and chopped onion, carrot, and celery to make the broth in which the cima will cook .
With a large needle and thick kitchen thread, sew the pocket halfway (10-11), leaving only an opening to insert the filling . To be more comfortable, transfer the filling into a pitcher.
Finish sewing the pocket, making sure there are no liquid leaks and securing the ends well with knots (13-14.15).
When the broth is boiling, salt the water and insert the well-closed pocket, which will need to cook for about 3 hours over low heat . After this time, drain it from the broth and wrap it tightly in plastic wrap
then place it on a tray and put a weight on top of it (we used a heavy cutting board) . The cima should rest this way overnight in the refrigerator: the next morning it will be well compacted and will have released the gelatin . Serve your Cima alla Genovese sliced !
Cima alla Genovese keeps for two days. Freezing is not recommended.
Of course, like all traditional recipes, there are many variations of Cima alla Genovese depending on towns, families, and traditions. The most famous variant is certainly the "lean" one proposed in Western Liguria, where the filling of the cima contains no meat but only vegetables. Another curiosity related to cima: it seems that cima was one of Fabrizio de André's favorite dishes, and he even dedicated a song to it: A Cimma.
Nothing of the cima goes to waste. If anyone dares to leave some slices, no problem: dipped in egg, breaded, and fried, they are a delight even the next day!

