name:
Pumpkin, Ricotta, and Speck Bites
ingredients:
Delica pumpkin: 0.6lb(250 g)- to clean
Potatoes: 8.8oz(250 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2.5oz(75 g)
Speck: 1.8oz(50 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1.2oz(35 g)- to grate
Sage: 3leaves
Cinnamon powder: ¾tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
High-oleic sunflower seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)- for frying
Eggs: 2
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Greek yogurt: to taste
Lime peel: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 40 pieces

instructions:
Autumn is upon us, and with the arrival of the first chilly days, we hunt for tasty ideas to bring to the table featuring the most delicious fruits of the season, like pumpkin. Thus, our pumpkin, ricotta, and speck bites were born, appetizing nuggets made with a tantalizingly flavorful dough, served as an appetizer, even as finger food for a buffet. Outside, a crunchy breading, essential in a good fry, inside a soft filling that will tantalize your taste buds. Like cherries, you can't stop at one, so prepare plenty because we're sure there won't be any leftovers!
To prepare Pumpkin, Ricotta, and Speck Bites, start with the potatoes, place them in a pot filled with water , turn on the stove and, from the moment it boils, count about 30-40 minutes. In the meantime, remove the seeds from the pumpkin, cut into thin slices of about 1/2 inch (1 cm) thick , and place inside a steamer . Set it over the pot with the potatoes and cook for about 20-25 minutes: use a fork to test for doneness.
Remove the skin from the pumpkin and mash it with a potato masher , retrieve the potatoes and mash them in the same way . Let them cool slightly.
In the meantime, remove the rind from the speck if there is any, slice thinly to a couple of mm thick , then cut into strips. Sauté them over high heat in a non-stick pan until golden .
Chop the speck with a knife . At this point, still using the potato masher, refine the ricotta in the bowl with pumpkin and potatoes, add the speck crumbs and grated pecorino cheese .
Also chop the sage with a knife , add it to the bowl with salt, pepper, and ground cinnamon. Knead the mixture by hand , it will become compact but a bit soft.
Moisten your hands and form small bites of about 0.5 oz (15 grams) each , this will yield around forty pieces. As you go along, place them on a tray lined with parchment paper and leave to rest in the refrigerator for an hour . After the time has elapsed, heat the oil to 320-340°F (160-170°C) and pass the bites first in beaten eggs
and then in breadcrumbs . Place them back on the tray . Immerse a few pieces at a time in the hot oil until golden , 2-3 minutes will be enough for them to be golden on the outside and soft inside.
Drain on absorbent paper and continue with all the others. Your pumpkin, ricotta, and speck bites are ready to be enjoyed hot, accompanied by Greek yogurt flavored with grated lime zest.
It is recommended to consume the pumpkin, ricotta, and speck bites immediately. They can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days or frozen raw: in this case, it will be sufficient to follow the described procedure, taking care to cook at a slightly lower temperature and for a bit longer.
The absence of eggs will ensure that the dough remains soft even after cooking, but for this, it is essential to rest in the refrigerator. The same goes for the oil, which must be very hot. You can double coat if you prefer an extra crispy surface. Cinnamon enriches the flavor, making it pleasantly sweet, but you can substitute it with nutmeg if you don't like it.

