name:
Cacciucco alla Livornese
ingredients:
Scorpionfish: 1.9lbs(850 g)
Monkfish: 1.7lbs(750 g)
Octopus: 1.5lbs(650 g)
Calamari (squid): 1lb(450 g)
Scampi: 14.1oz(400 g)
Octopi: 10.5oz(300 g)
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Garlic: 1clove
Yellow onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Peeled tomatoes: ¾cup(200 g)
White wine: 3.5oz(100 ml)
Parsley: 5sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Ground black pepper: 5
Parsley: 1bunch
White wine: 2.8oz(80 ml)
Water: 8glasses(2 l)
Scorpionfish: to taste- waste
Scampi: to taste- waste
Monkfish: to taste- waste
Bread: 7oz(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare Livorno-style cacciucco, start by cleaning the fish and shellfish you need: mussels, octopus, squid, cuttlefish, monkfish, scorpionfish, and langoustines . Clean and cook the mussels. After washing them under running water, remove all barnacles and pull off the beard emerging from the shell with a strong motion. Then, still under fresh running water, scrub the mussels vigorously using a steel wool pad or a stiff brush . Place the cleaned mussels in a pan and cover with a lid
and cook them over high heat for 5 minutes, or until they open . At this point, you can shell the mollusks , keeping a few whole mussels aside. Move on to the octopus. Clean it according to the tutorial, then coarsely chop the tentacles .
To clean the cuttlefish, you need to gently separate the head and tentacles from the mantle, wash them well, and remove the cartilage pen and the ink sac. Chop the tentacles and heads . Proceed with the squid. Once the head is removed, locate the transparent cartilage pen inside the mantle and remove it gently ,
then open the mantles like a book: remove the outer layer , cut them into strips , and reduce them to slivers .
Continue with the monkfish: remove the outer skin , divide the flesh following the bone , and fillet it , keeping the scraps aside.
Now scale the scorpionfish, remove the tail, and make an incision along the back , then remove the fins and fillet it , keeping the scraps aside.
Remove the bones from the fillets with tweezers . Finally, clean the langoustines. With scissors, remove the tail , the legs
and the carapace , leaving the head intact and keeping all the scraps. After cleaning the onion, chop it and the celery, then mince the garlic clove . In a pot over moderate heat, place all the scraps: the monkfish bone, scorpionfish tail and fins, langoustine tail, legs, and carapace .
Add the chopped onion, celery, and garlic , then the whole peppercorns , and finally, deglaze with the white wine .
Add water and bring to a boil, then reduce the heat and continue cooking for 40-50 minutes: if necessary, remove the surface foam with a skimmer . Once ready, strain and filter the obtained broth , setting it aside. Continue with the cacciucco. Finely chop the onion, garlic, and chili pepper, then sauté them in a large skillet drizzled with olive oil .
Add the chopped octopus and cook for 10 minutes , then add the squid and cuttlefish and continue cooking for another 5 minutes. Deglaze with white wine .
Season with salt and pepper , then add the previously crushed peeled tomatoes and 1 cup of the fish broth obtained .
Cover the pan with a lid and let it simmer over low heat for 1 hour and 10 minutes. When the fish is nearly cooked, gently add the monkfish and scorpionfish fillets, then add the langoustines . Continue cooking for 10 minutes, adding another 2 cups of broth and keeping the lid on the pan. After this time, add the shelled and whole mussels and cook for the last 10 minutes).
Meanwhile, slice the bread and toast it for a few minutes in the oven on grill mode, for 5 minutes. When ready, rub a clove of garlic on each slice , and finally add the chopped parsley to the cacciucco. The Livorno-style cacciucco is ready to be served hot along with the toasted bread.
The Livorno-style cacciucco should be consumed immediately; freezing is not recommended.
For tradition enthusiasts: do you have an earthenware pot? If yes, it's time to bring it out and cook the cacciucco in it. If you also have a bottle of Chianti, don't hold back and uncork it!
The Livorno fish cacciucco is linked to a Livorno legend: a local fisherman, who went fishing with his boat, was suddenly caught in a storm and drowned. Having left his wife and children in poverty, the hungry children went to the port and asked the fishermen for fish to eat. Each fisherman offered fish to the children: one gave an octopus, another a slipper lobster, another a cuttlefish. Back home, the mother made a soup with these fish and then poured it into a tureen where she had previously arranged slices of bread. The delightful aroma of the improvised soup intrigued the neighbors, who hurried to ask the woman where it came from. Thus was born the cacciucco.

