name:
Pork Souvlaki
ingredients:
Pork loin: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Fine salt: to taste
Lemon juice: 1 ½cup(350 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4 ½tbsp(70 ml)
Black pepper: to taste
Oregano: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make pork souvlaki, start by preparing the marinade that will flavor the meat: squeeze the lemon juice , in a rectangular dish about 9x14 inches, place the lemon juice , the oil ,
the rosemary , the oregano , finally season with salt and pepper. Now focus on the meat. Take the pork loin, remove the fatty part with a sharp knife ,
cut slices about three-quarters of an inch thick and then cut these into cubes about 3/4 inch by 3/4 inch , each piece should weigh about 0.5 oz. Then thread the meat cubes onto 8-inch wooden skewers . Each skewer can hold 5 pieces of meat, and with these quantities, you will obtain 12 skewers.
Place the pork souvlaki in the previously prepared mixture , cover the dish with plastic wrap and refrigerate to marinate for at least 30 minutes. After the necessary time, remove the dish from the fridge
and proceed with cooking: place a cast iron grill on the stove and heat it well, grill the skewers making sure to cook them on each side . The inside of the meat should be tender yet well-cooked, and the outside should have the typical grill marks , which will take about 15 minutes. Serve the pork souvlaki while still hot, accompanied by tzatziki and the typical Greek salad.
It is preferable to consume souvlaki immediately; if you have leftovers, store them in the refrigerator for up to one day, covered with plastic wrap. It is not recommended to freeze souvlaki after cooking.
It seems that the word souvlaki is the diminutive of souvla, which means skewer in Greek. In Athens, the term kalamaki is used to refer to the real souvlaki, that is, the meat one.
Delicious in its simple and spartan version loved by all Greeks, souvlaki can be enriched with pieces of bell peppers or zucchini or bits of other meat (for example, beef or chicken). Serving them as a single dish is a winning choice, especially if accompanied by the typical Greek salad.

