name:
Grape Flatbread
ingredients:
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Black grapes: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (or Concord grapes)
Extra virgin olive oil: 8spoonfuls
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.4oz(12 g)
Malt: 1tsp
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Type 0 flour: 4cups(500 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note plus the time needed to let the bread dough rise

instructions:
To make the grape flatbread, start by preparing the bread dough: dissolve the yeast in a little lukewarm water (taken from the total amount of water required for the recipe) and add a teaspoon of malt (or sugar or honey) , then mix everything and let it rest for a few minutes. Put the sifted flour in a stand mixer, add the yeast, water, and malt mixture .
and start kneading with the hook, slowly adding the remaining water . When you have obtained a smooth and soft consistency, typical of bread dough, transfer the mixture onto a floured board and briefly knead it by hand . Form a ball and place it in a bowl, covered with plastic wrap (or a clean and damp cloth), then let it rise for a couple of hours in the oven, turned off and closed but with the light on: the dough should double in volume .
When the bread dough is ready, transfer it back to the stand mixer and knead it with 50 grams of sugar and 4 tablespoons of oil, for another 5 minutes (if you prefer, you can perform the same operation manually, spreading the dough on a floured board and kneading it by hand). Take the grapes, wash them under cold running water and detach all the grapes .
Now divide the bread dough into two parts and roll them out both with the help of a rolling pin, until you obtain a thickness of 0.39 inches . Oil a baking tray with dimensions of 15.75 x 11.81 inches , using a brush .
then lay a dough sheet and entirely cover its surface with half of the total amount of grapes , a tablespoon of sugar , and some extra virgin olive oil .
At this point, cover everything with the second sheet of dough , on which you will place the remaining grapes, then sprinkle with sugar and drizzle the surface of the flatbread with the remaining olive oil. Bake the flatbread for 50-60 minutes in a preheated oven at 356°F ; when it is ready, let it cool and serve it cut into pieces.
We recommend eating the grape flatbread within the same day; if you wish, you can store it for a couple of days at most, in an airtight container and kept in the refrigerator.
Indulgent variation: cut all the grapes in half and remove the seeds from each one. It will take almost forever, but those who eat it will be grateful to you for life: if nothing else, you'll earn some credits :) As for the filling, I'm undecided whether I prefer the version with must (finger-licking good) or the savory one, with a sprinkle of rosemary and filled with cheese: what do you think?

