name:
Risi e bisi
ingredients:
Butter: 4 ¼tbsp(60 g)
Onions: 1
Black pepper: to taste
Vialone nano rice: 1 ¾cup(350 g)
Vegetable broth: 5 ½cups(1300 ml)
Fine salt: to taste
Peas: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Pancetta tesa: 1.75oz(50 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)- to grate
Parsley: ½cup(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare risi e bisi, first prepare a light vegetable broth and let it cool down . For details on preparation, see the Vegetable broth card. Meanwhile, shell the peas, keeping the pods aside . Once all the pods are shelled, rinse them well under running water and drain them thoroughly
and immerse them in the saucepan with the broth , cover with a lid, and let them cook for 60 minutes over moderate heat from the resumption of boiling . After cooking, blend the pods with an immersion blender without removing them from the broth
until you obtain a puree , pour it into a fine-mesh sieve placed over a bowl , and press the puree well with a spatula to eliminate the too fibrous part of the pods
collecting all the juices that will come out and keep them warm. At this point, proceed to cook the rice: melt half of the butter in a large pot and sauté the finely chopped onion . Once the onion has become golden, it will take about 10-15 minutes of cooking over low heat, add the chopped bacon
and the chopped parsley . Let it flavor for a couple of minutes and then add the peas , and a tablespoon of oil to flavor everything
pour two ladles of broth or hot water and mix, cooking for 5 minutes . Then add the broth obtained with the pods along with the peas , adjust the salt and pepper, and bring to a boil. Then add the rice and adjust the salt if necessary
and cook it al dente, stirring often with a wooden spoon ; at the end of cooking, the consistency of risi e bisi should be that of a soup, but not overly brothy. Turn off the heat and blend the rice with the other half of the butter and the grated cheese . If you like, you can add more chopped parsley and serve the risi e bisi piping hot!
Risi e bisi can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container for a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
Although history has attributed risi e bisi to the Venetian tradition, it is very likely that this dish is of Byzantine derivation, as it was the Eastern peoples, who had intense commercial exchanges with the Venetians, who used to accompany rice with vegetables.
If there's a case where frozen is truly a time-saver (and in the frenzy of modern life, it constitutes a decidedly acceptable compromise), that case concerns peas. If the preparation is too lengthy for you, or if you can't get fresh peas, use frozen ones: you'll have to forgo the pods, agreed, but it's always better than missing out on risi e bisi, right? You can replace the butter with 4 tablespoons of oil.

