name:
Witch's Pumpkin Cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Butter: 0.6cup(125 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Eggs: 1- medium whole
Egg yolks: 2
Pumpkin: 1 ¼cup(300 g)- pulp
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Water: 0.42cup(100 ml)
Egg whites: 2tbsp(30 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.4cup(50 g)
Lemon juice: to taste
Food coloring: to taste- orange

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 32 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the witch's pumpkin cookies, start by preparing the shortcrust pastry: put the flour , sugar, grated lemon zest , and a pinch of salt in the bowl of a stand mixer. Mix the ingredients and then add the cold butter in pieces and
finally the two yolks plus the whole egg , keeping the egg whites aside. Let the ingredients blend together and then move the dough onto a work surface and shape into a block, wrap it in plastic wrap, and leave it in the fridge for about an hour .
Now prepare the filling: wash the pumpkin, peel it, and cut it into pieces . Put it in a saucepan with water and let it simmer covered . When the pumpkin starts to break down, add the sugar and grated lemon zest . Let it cook until the pumpkin takes on a bright color (about 20 minutes) and becomes almost creamy.
Pass the obtained mixture through a food mill and set it aside in a bowl to cool. Roll out a strip of shortcrust pastry about 8 inches wide and 1/5 inch thick . Transfer the filling into a piping bag and fill your cookies, placing dollops of filling on the pastry .
Brush around the filling dollops with the egg white to help the pastry stick and fold the pastry over the other half . Press between the spaces to adhere everything well .
Form the cookies by cutting them with a 2-inch round cutter and place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper . Bake in a preheated oven at 350°F for 30 minutes and when the cookies are ready, let them cool on a wire rack .
While the cookies are baking, prepare the glaze: beat the egg white and when it is semi-whipped, add the powdered sugar one tablespoon at a time and a few drops of lemon. Lastly, add the food coloring until you achieve the desired color . Continue whipping until you obtain a firm and shiny glaze, transfer it into a piping bag, and decorate your witch's pumpkin cookies. You can make lines to resemble a small round pumpkin or, as in the presentation photo, make scary faces typical of Halloween! And here are your witch's pumpkin cookies ready!
Store the witch's pumpkin cookies in a tin box for 4-5 days
These cookies, especially in America, are made during the Halloween period with the classic pumpkin shape.
For a less sweet filling, reduce the amount of sugar. For a more flavored filling, add a few drops of Marsala. For a flavor explosion, add 3.5 oz of raisins: soak them in warm water, dry them well, and mix them with the pumpkin along with the lemon to caramelize them.
Discover all our pumpkin recipes for Halloween to create a different menu each time!

