name:
Cauliflower and turmeric soup with crispy chickpeas
ingredients:
Cauliflower: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Leeks: 1
Pumpkin: 0.75lb(350 g)- delica
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Precooked chickpeas: 2cups(460 g)- drained
Water: 2cups(500 g)
Black pepper & turmeric: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
The velvety cauliflower and turmeric soup with crispy chickpeas is a first course that will conquer you at the first taste, thanks to the warm and aromatic flavors of the spices we have chosen to enrich this autumn dish. As soon as the air starts to get crisper, the desire for an comfort food like this delicious cream soup grows, enhancing the best vegetables of this season. Here you will find cauliflower, whose strong flavor will be softened by the pumpkin, the undisputed star of the autumn table. Giving this dish a truly special touch will be the crispy chickpeas roasted in the oven with a mix of turmeric and black pepper that will tantalize the palate!
To prepare the velvety cauliflower and turmeric soup with crispy chickpeas, clean the cauliflower, obtaining the florets . Cut the pumpkin into wedges, peel it , remove the seeds and internal filaments, and then cut it into cubes of about 3/4 inch .
Peel the potatoes and cut them into cubes of about 3/4 inch . Clean the leeks, keeping aside the green part, then slice them , rinse them under running water , and drain them.
Cut the green part of the leeks into pieces , rinse them, toast them in a pot with a little oil for a few minutes , add 2 cups of water .
Simmer for twenty minutes . In a large pot, heat the oil, add the potatoes and the cauliflower , and sauté for about 5 minutes.
Add the pumpkin and the leek , sauté everything together, after 5 minutes season with salt, and pour in the leek broth .
Cover with the lid and continue cooking for about 15 minutes. After the 15 minutes, remove the lid from the vegetables and let the preparation dry . Blend the vegetables with an immersion blender .
You should obtain a smooth cream . Meanwhile, in a bowl, season the drained chickpeas with black pepper, turmeric , and salt. Transfer them to a baking tray lined with parchment paper , roast in a preheated fan oven at 390°F for 20 minutes.
The chickpeas should be golden brown . Serve in dishes with a sprinkle of turmeric and black pepper and garnish the velvety soup with the crispy chickpeas.
The velvety cauliflower and turmeric soup with crispy chickpeas can be stored for a couple of days in the refrigerator. You can freeze it after cooking.
If there are leftovers, you can use this soup to dress pasta.
The crispy chickpeas can also be enjoyed separately as a snack; they keep in a glass jar for a couple of days.

