name:
Pumpkin Gnocchi alla Romana
ingredients:
Pumpkin: 1 ¾cup(400 g)- pulp
Semolina: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Nutmeg: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 4.2oz(120 g)- (to grate)
Fine salt: to taste
Egg yolks: 2
Butter: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the cooking time of the pumpkin and cooling of the semolina

instructions:
If you love traditional Gnocchi alla romana , our version of pumpkin gnocchi alla romana will win you over at the first taste! To the classic semolina dough, we added the sweet pumpkin puree to give an even more intense flavor to the gnocchi while retaining the classic and typical texture. Pumpkin gnocchi alla romana is a tasty and hearty first course, perfect for pampering yourself at the table during the winter season!
Try these variations too:

To prepare the pumpkin gnocchi alla romana, first cut the pumpkin, remove the seeds and skin and place it on a baking tray wrapped in aluminum foil . Cook at 390°F for 40 minutes. Once ready, let it cool and then pass it through a food mill to obtain a puree that you will set aside.
Move on to the gnocchi dough: put the milk in a saucepan with 3 tbsp of butter of the total 1/3 cup and turn on a moderate heat. Salt and add nutmeg, then when the milk reaches a simmer, slowly pour in the semolina, stirring vigorously with a whisk to avoid lumps . Lower the heat to prevent the bottom from burning. Cook everything while stirring with a whisk for 3-4 minutes, being careful to mix everything until a smooth mixture forms and the semolina has thickened.
At this point, remove the saucepan from the heat and add the egg yolks and 3 oz of Parmigiano Reggiano , and incorporate everything with a whisk. Finally, add the pumpkin puree and blend everything together.
Transfer the mixture to a shallow, slightly dampened tray, and with the help of a spatula , spread the mixture to a thickness of 1/2 inch. Wait about 5 minutes for the gnocchi mixture to cool, and with the help of a 2-inch pastry cutter, cut out the pumpkin gnocchi . Butter a baking dish and
arrange the pumpkin gnocchi alla romana in rows, slightly overlapping each other . Melt the remaining butter and drizzle over the gnocchi , finally sprinkle with the remaining Parmigiano and bake in a preheated oven at 390°F for about 20-25 minutes, until a beautiful golden crust forms . The pumpkin gnocchi alla romana are ready!
Store the pumpkin gnocchi alla romana in the refrigerator tightly sealed in a container for up to 2 days. You can also freeze the pumpkin gnocchi alla romana, already seasoned with cheese and butter in pieces instead of melted, and bake them directly in the oven without thawing.
When spreading the semolina and pumpkin mixture on the tray, wet the spatula to prevent it from sticking, or wet your hands and press with your palm to get a great result in less time. To get a crunchier crust, turn on the grill for a few minutes! You can find the classic gnocchi alla romana recipe by clicking here!

