name:
Pasta with porcini, sausage and crumbled chestnuts
ingredients:
Whole wheat Tortiglioni pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Porcini mushrooms: 10.5oz(300 g)
Sausage: 0.66lb(300 g)
Chestnuts: 1.4cups(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Dry white wine: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Along the flavors of autumn, we encounter chestnuts and porcini mushrooms, two ingredients that pair perfectly because the sweet taste of chestnuts is balanced by the intense flavor of mushrooms. In this recipe, we decided to combine them together in a tasty and rich first course: pasta with porcini, sausage, and chestnuts! For all lovers of good food, pasta with porcini and sausage is already a delicacy on its own. This recipe adds an extra touch of flavor, offering a distinctly autumnal dish, a perfect sauce for whole wheat tortiglioni that enhances all its rustic taste. If you are fans of the gastronomic products of this season, you cannot miss the chance to taste pasta with porcini, sausage, and crumbled chestnuts, to offer your guests a complete dish! All that's left is to turn on the stove and... start cooking!
To prepare pasta with porcini, sausage, and crumbled chestnuts, first pour the chestnuts into a pot full of water , then cover with a lid and let them cook for 30 minutes. Once this time has passed, test with a toothpick: prick them to check if they are cooked, and if so, drain them .
Set them aside in a bowl, covered : this way, the steam will soften the outer shell, making them easier to peel. Once cooled, peel the chestnuts , you should obtain 5 oz of cleaned chestnuts, and with your hands, crumble some , keeping the others whole aside.
At this point, take care of the cleaning of porcini mushrooms : using a small knife, remove the bottom part of the mushroom stem and clean the top part with a damp cloth. If there is too much dirt, you can quickly rinse it under running water and dry it with kitchen paper . Once all the mushrooms are cleaned, slice them thinly .
Now move on to the sausage: make a lengthwise cut, gently incising the outer part . Remove the casing and roughly chop it. Then pour the oil into a pan, add the garlic, and let it turn golden. Once well browned, add the sausage and let it brown over high heat.
Deglaze with white wine , remove the garlic , and let it cook for another 10 minutes. Add the previously sliced mushrooms , add a pinch of salt and pepper.
Wait 3-4 minutes, stirring occasionally, and then also add the chestnuts . Add the chopped parsley and cook the pasta in plenty of boiling water, salted to taste .
Drain the pasta very al dente and pour it directly into the pan , mix everything, and let it flavor for a couple of minutes ; then plate and serve your pasta with porcini, sausage, and crumbled chestnuts .
It is preferable to enjoy the pasta with porcini, sausage, and chestnuts freshly made and still hot. If you have leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 1 day in the fridge.
Freezing is not recommended.
Didn't find pre-cooked chestnuts? No problem! You can use dried ones by soaking them for about 12 hours and then boiling them! And to give the dish an extra boost, try flavoring with a grating of aged cheese or a tablespoon of robiola to add creaminess and sweetness.
Perhaps not everyone knows that in the past, the chestnut was widely used for its high energy value, low water content, and high carbohydrate presence. Historically, it was a fundamental food for the lower classes and used to enrich the flavor and nutrients of soups, bread, and polenta, for example. Today, we enjoy it as an autumnal delight simply baked in the oven or for exquisite desserts and preparations!

