name:
Banana and Carrot Pancakes
ingredients:
Bananas: 14.1oz(400 g)- ripe (to peel)
Carrots: 1 ½cup(180 g)- (to clean)
Eggs: 2
Type 00 flour: 0.6cup(80 g)
Brown sugar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(5 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp
Butter: to taste
Chopped walnuts: to taste
Natural plain yogurt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
How many variations can you make of the classic American pancakes ? The answer is: many… and today we offer you one with fruit and vegetables! Yes, the banana and carrot pancakes are an easy, tasty, and nutritious recipe because the batter is enriched with the pulp of these two ingredients. The rustic touch of brown sugar and the aroma of cinnamon make them delicious in their simplicity.
Perfect for an energetic breakfast or a light and wholesome snack , the banana and carrot pancakes can be served with maple syrup and honey as in the original version, or with yogurt and dried fruit as we did!
Try these other alternative pancake recipes :
To make the banana and carrot pancakes, first peel the bananas and slice them, then mash 240 grams (about 8.5 oz) of pulp with a fork . Trim and peel the carrots, then finely grate 180 grams (about 6.5 oz) of pulp .
Pour the grated carrots into the bowl with the mashed bananas , then add the eggs and the brown sugar .
Also add the cinnamon , sifted flour , and baking powder .
Mix with a whisk to combine everything and obtain a homogeneous mixture . Proceed to cooking: lightly grease a pan with butter and pour a ladle of batter for each pancake .
Cook over medium heat for 2-3 minutes, then flip it to the other side and cook for another 2-3 minutes . As they are cooked, remove the pancakes from the pan and continue until the batter is used up.
Plate the pancakes and garnish with walnut crumbs as desired . Your banana and carrot pancakes are ready to be served with yogurt !
It is recommended to consume the banana and carrot pancakes immediately. If necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
You can prepare the batter in advance and store it in the refrigerator for up to 12 hours.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you wish, you can add dried fruit directly to the batter for a crunchy note.

