name:
Pan dei Morti (Bread of the Dead)
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Cookies: 3.5oz(100 g)
Amaretti cookies: 3.5oz(100 g)
Ladyfingers: 3cups(300 g)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 10tbsp(50 g)
Almonds: ¾cup(120 g)
Dried figs: 4.25oz(120 g)
Raisins: 0.8cup(120 g)
Egg whites: 6- (of medium eggs)
Vin santo wine: 3.5oz(100 ml)
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp
Nutmeg: to taste- to grate
Baking powder: 2tsp(10 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: High
Note it is recommended to consume at least 2 days after baking

instructions:
Traditional sweets to celebrate All Souls' Day and All Saints: pan dei morti (bread of the dead), an ancient recipe originating from Milan and spread in various areas of Northern Italy, with slight differences in dough and shape of these dense, pasty, and very tasty cookies. Almonds and dried figs, pine nuts, raisins, and rum, cocoa... are some of the elements that make bread of the dead characteristic and special, in addition to its slightly flattened oval shape, dusted with powdered sugar. A true delight to celebrate this tradition, which in Italy knows no boundaries: in Tuscany, bread of the dead is also prepared, while in Umbria the Fave dei morti or the bones of the dead are commonly consumed, in Sicily the Rame di Napoli , while in Naples the typical torrone !
To prepare the bread of the dead, start by rinsing and soaking the raisins in a small bowl with water (alternatively, you can soak them directly in the vin santo from the recipe) . In the cup of a blender, add the dry cookies, amaretti, and (if sufficiently powerful) also savoiardi: if they don't fit, you can do it a bit at a time . Blend until you obtain very fine crumbs and transfer the mixture to a large bowl .
Now, put the almonds in the same blender and grind them into flour , then add them to the crushed cookies. Now, also process the dried figs in the blender and add them to the bowl . Mix in the granulated sugar ,
the flour , the cocoa , a pinch of nutmeg, and the cinnamon. At this point, drain and squeeze the raisins well before adding them to the mixture ,
add the sifted baking powder , the vin santo , and the egg whites .
Start combining all the ingredients with your hands or, if you prefer, use a spatula or a wooden spoon , and when the mixture is sufficiently compact, transfer it to a lightly floured work surface and knead it with your hands until you obtain a homogeneous and fairly firm dough. Form a loaf and cut into slices of 3-3.5 oz each .
Shape the pieces into a low form about ½ inch thick, making them elongated about 5-6 inches long and 2-2½ inches wide . Try not to add flour during this phase. Cover a baking sheet or pan with parchment paper and arrange your bread of the dead on it, spacing them a few inches apart , as they will expand slightly during baking. Bake the cookies in a preheated oven at 355°F for about 25 minutes, then remove them, dust with powdered sugar , and let them cool. Serve the bread of the dead only after allowing it to rest for at least two days to let it soften properly.
Store the bread of the dead for 4-5 days tightly closed in a tin box.
For a tastier result, try soaking the raisins directly in Vin Santo instead of water, and then pour everything into the dough, as shown in the video.
Instead of Vin Santo, another type of dessert wine of your choice can be used. As an alternative to almonds, pine nuts or hazelnuts can be used.
Depending on how dry the cookies are, you can add egg whites or a little more vin santo to make the dough more hydrated and malleable.
Conversely, if it is too soft, balance with a little more flour or cocoa!
The rite of offering to the dead was already present in ancient times: the Greeks, for example, offered a bread of the dead to Demeter, the Goddess of the harvest, to ensure a good harvest.
Even today, in many areas of Italy, it is common to set the table and serve, even for deceased people, bread of the dead.
Not only in Italy is the commemoration of the dead celebrated by preparing bread of the dead. In Mexico, for this occasion, a sweet very similar to our bread of the dead is prepared, called pan de muertos , adorned with flowers and sugar and brought to cemeteries as a symbolic offering to the dead.


