name:
Pork chops with pumpkin cream and taleggio
ingredients:
Pumpkin: 2cups(500 g)
Potatoes: 3.5oz(100 g)
Vegetable broth: 2cups(500 ml)
White onions: 1.5oz(40 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Black pepper: 1pinch
Nutmeg: 1pinch
Pork chop: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (4 chops)
Taleggio cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Sage: 1tsp(3 g)
Rosemary: 3tsp(3 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Thyme: 2sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the time to prepare the broth

instructions:
Pork chops with pumpkin and taleggio bring warm and enchanting colors to the table, like the pumpkin, which with its unique sweetness becomes the perfect ingredient for enveloping and velvety creams that enhance and give an original taste to your dishes. If you have a lunch or dinner planned with friends and want to impress them with an inviting and tasty main course, this recipe is the perfect choice! On a velvety and elegant pumpkin cream, flavored with nutmeg and a hint of cinnamon, the chops are placed, deliciously tender and flavored with bay leaves and rosemary, all made even tastier by the melting taleggio. A combination of flavors that creates a true delight for the palate... Your friends will want to discover the secret of such goodness right away!
Also try the Pan-fried Pork Chops with potatoes and onions, super tasty!
To prepare the pork chops with pumpkin cream and taleggio, first make the vegetable broth , which you will need for the preparation of the pumpkin cream. Then focus on the pumpkin cream : cut the pumpkin into slices , remove the outer skin, take out the seeds, then cut the flesh first into strips and then into cubes . Peel the potatoes
and also cut them into cubes . Then take the onion, clean it and finely chop it , transfer it to a pan with the oil and sauté over low heat .
Once the onion is golden, add the pumpkin to the pan along with the potatoes . Gradually add some ladles of vegetable broth until the vegetables are covered.
Adjust with salt and pepper and cook over low heat for 25-30 minutes , occasionally adding more vegetable broth. Once the vegetables are cooked, turn off the heat and start blending everything with an immersion blender
until you get a smooth and homogeneous cream . Add a sprinkle of nutmeg and cinnamon and mix everything ; at this point your pumpkin cream is ready, so set it aside.
Take the chops and pound them with a meat tenderizer until they are about 1/2 inch thick , then mince the sage and rosemary and place them in a non-stick pan with a drizzle of oil .
Lay the chops in the pan , adjust with salt and pepper and let them brown for 5 minutes on each side over medium-high heat . It will take a total of 10 minutes if they are not too thick.
Once cooked, remove them from the pan and keep them warm . In the same pan where the chops were cooked, pour the previously prepared pumpkin cream , add the meat .
Let the meat soak in the pumpkin cream for another 5 minutes, then cut the taleggio into slices and place one on each chop . Cook for another 2 minutes so the taleggio melts.
Sprinkle everything with thyme leaves , mix well and your pork chops with pumpkin cream and taleggio are ready to be served!
It is preferable to consume the pork chops immediately after preparation, otherwise you can store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to one day.
For this recipe, choose pork chops that are not too fatty, given the caloric content of the other ingredients, and to keep them tender do not cook them for more than a total of 10 minutes.

