name:
Creamy pumpkin and quartirolo risotto
ingredients:
Rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Quartirolo Lombardo cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Shallot: 1
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Pumpkin seeds: 1tbsp(10 g)- toasted
Marjoram: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Pumpkin: 1.1lbs(500 g)- hokkaido (to clean)
Garlic: 3cloves
Salt: to taste
Butter: 0.88cup(200 g)
White onions: 1
White wine vinegar: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
White wine: ¼cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
The creamy pumpkin and quartirolo risotto is a delicious first course that manages to win over everyone's palate with its velvety texture and enveloping taste. The natural sweetness of the pumpkin pairs perfectly with the quartirolo, adding a savory and slightly tangy note, while the addition of acid butter makes the risotto flavor more complex and intriguing. The final touch comes from the toasted pumpkin seeds, adding a hint of crunchiness. The creamy pumpkin and quartirolo risotto is perfect for a family lunch or a dinner with friends, but it's also suitable for special occasions when you want to surprise with a tasty and genuine dish!
If you are looking for other variations of pumpkin risotto :

To prepare the creamy pumpkin and quartirolo risotto, first wash the pumpkin, then remove the seeds and internal fibers and cut the flesh into cubes without peeling it . Place them on a sheet of aluminum foil and season with oil .
Add the garlic , adjust with salt and pepper . Close the aluminum foil and place it on a baking sheet . Cook in a preheated fan oven at 390°F for 40 minutes. Meanwhile, you can prepare the vegetable broth that you will need to cook the rice.
To make the acid butter, first slice the onion into julienne strips . Melt the butter in a small saucepan and add the onion .
When the butter turns amber and the onions are wilted, add the white wine and vinegar . Let it cook for a few minutes, then filter through a sieve and place everything in the refrigerator to let it solidify.
When the pumpkin is ready , transfer it to a jar, remove the garlic cloves, and blend with an immersion mixer until you get a smooth and silky puree .
In a pot, add the oil and the finely chopped shallot and let it brown. Pour the rice into the pot and toast for a few minutes. Moisten with the vegetable broth . Cook the rice by adding a ladleful each time the previous one is absorbed.
Meanwhile, roughly break up the quartirolo . When the rice is cooked, add the pumpkin cream and cold acid butter .
Add pepper and marjoram . Let the risotto rest for a few minutes and then plate .
Add the quartirolo on top of the risotto . Garnish with toasted pumpkin seeds and a few marjoram leaves . Your creamy pumpkin and quartirolo risotto is ready to be enjoyed!
It is recommended to consume the creamy pumpkin and quartirolo risotto right away; if necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator for one day.
The pumpkin puree can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days or you can freeze it.
The Hokkaido pumpkin is characterized by a very thin skin, so it does not need to be peeled before cooking. If you prefer, you can use another type of pumpkin, ensuring that you remove the skin first.
For a stronger flavor, you can substitute quartirolo with sweet gorgonzola or grated salted ricotta.
For a crunchy touch, you can experiment with toasted sunflower seeds or chopped walnuts!

