name:
Penne with Turkey Ragù
ingredients:
Pennette rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Turkey: 1.1lbs(500 g)- ground meat
Carrots: ½cup(60 g)
Celery: 2.1oz(60 g)
White onions: 2.1oz(60 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
White wine: 2.7oz(80 g)
Sage: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 1.4oz(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Water: 6cups(1.5 l)
Turkey: 14.1oz(400 g)- waste and bones
Carrots: 1oz(30 g)
Celery: 1oz(30 g)
White onions: 1oz(30 g)
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 2 h of broth cooking

instructions:
The ragù is one of the most important institutions of Italian cuisine, having become a true source of pride abroad. It allows for a variety of ingredients, offering a constantly evolving sauce by choosing from meat, fish, and even vegetarian options. Since we love trying new recipes, today we present to you some irresistible penne with turkey ragù. This white meat, with a much stronger flavor than chicken, is perfect for becoming a pasta sauce, based on rustic aromas and flavors! Therefore, if you are a fan of the traditional ragù but your adventurous palate pushes you to explore new and interesting taste combinations, let yourself be tempted by our penne with turkey ragù!
If you enjoyed the turkey ragù, also try this variation enriched with duck: tagliatelle with farmyard ragù !
To prepare the penne with turkey ragù, start with the broth, which you can make using the bones. So in a large pot, pour in water, celery, carrot, onion, parsley, salt, and, of course, the turkey bones and let it cook for a couple of hours on low heat, skimming occasionally. This broth will be useful for cooking the ragù. If you don't have turkey bones, you can replace them with vegetable broth . For the ragù, clean the celery, carrot, onion, and garlic and blend them at high speed for a few moments to obtain small cubes .
On a cutting board, finely chop the aromatic herbs and add them to a saucepan with the oil along with the aromatic mixture . Cook for about ten minutes. Once the base is well-flavored, add the ground turkey meat ,
stirring occasionally to prevent burning, and after fifteen minutes, deglaze with white wine . Once the alcohol has completely evaporated, add about 1 1/4 cups (300 ml) of broth, prolonging the cooking for another 15 minutes . Chop the sun-dried tomatoes in oil
and add them to the ragù , then adjust the salt and pepper . Meanwhile, cook the pasta in plenty of boiling salted water
and once it is al dente, drain it and add it to the sauce . Stir and let it cook for a few more moments so that the pasta absorbs the flavor , and finally serve your penne with turkey ragù while they are still very hot, garnishing with a few thyme leaves !
It is recommended to consume the penne with turkey ragù immediately, but if you want, you can store it in the refrigerator for up to one day, covered with plastic wrap.
If you love spicy food, add a nice chili pepper to this delicious sauce! And if you prefer the classic 'red' ragù, add some cooking tomatoes.

