name:
Apple Ring Cake
ingredients:
Golden delicious apples: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Eggs: 3
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)
Butter: 5.6oz(160 g)- soft
Milk: 0.3cup(70 g)
Lemon peel: 0.6tsp(3 g)
Cinnamon powder: 0.4tsp(2 g)
Sugar: 5tsp(20 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low

instructions:
The apple ring cake is a simple and genuine dessert that feels like home. Perfect for any time of the day: ideal for breakfast to start the day right, or for a snack, perhaps accompanied by a steaming cup of tea. But it doesn't disappoint at the end of a meal either, served as a homemade dessert with a scoop of ice cream. Each slice encapsulates a perfect balance between the softness of the batter and the natural sweetness of the apples. Unlike the classic ring cake , in this version, the apples are the true stars of this dessert: they are present both inside the batter, to add moisture, and sliced on the surface as decoration. The result is a soft, aromatic dessert, where the hint of cinnamon and lemon zest further enhance the fruit's taste. If you are looking for a simple, genuine dessert with an authentic flavor, the apple ring cake is always a good choice!
If you are looking for other apple dessert recipes, check out:
To prepare the apple ring cake, first peel the apples and cut 1 and ½ into slices , while the others into ½-1 inch cubes and set aside. To prevent them from browning, you can sprinkle them with a little lemon juice. In a bowl, place the softened butter and add the sugar .
Add the cinnamon , lemon zest , and beat with an electric mixer until you obtain a soft and slightly whipped cream .
Gradually add the eggs and beat for about 1 minute. Sift the flour and baking powder, then gradually add them to the mixture , continuing to mix. Finally, add the milk to the bowl and mix until a smooth batter is obtained.
Add the apple cubes and stir . Transfer everything into a 9-inch diameter and 3-inch high ring mold, previously greased .
Level the top and arrange the apple slices in a radial pattern . Sprinkle the surface with sugar .
Bake in a static oven, on the middle rack, at 350°F for 60 minutes, using a toothpick to check for doneness before removing the cake from the oven. Let it cool, then remove it onto a serving plate and dust with powdered sugar . Your apple cake is ready to be served .
The apple ring cake can be stored under a glass dome or a cake container for 2-3 days. Once cooled, it can be frozen, even in slices.
If you don't like cinnamon, you can omit it. If you prefer spicier flavors, add a pinch of ginger or nutmeg along with the cinnamon. You can enrich the batter with chocolate chips, chopped walnuts, or hazelnuts for a crunchy touch.

