name:
Turkey stew
ingredients:
Turkey breast: 2.6lbs(1.2 kg)
Potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
White onions: 1
Carrots: 1
Type 00 flour: 0.6cup(70 g)-
Tomato purée: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Meat broth: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Thyme: 3sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + preparation time for the meat broth

instructions:
If you have some free time to dedicate to cooking but don't feel like embarking on heavy and complicated recipes, turkey stew with potatoes is the right dish to meet your needs! Turkey meat is very versatile in cooking, rich in protein, low in fat, and more digestible than red meats. The long, slow cooking with tomato sauce and broth will preserve its tenderness, creating a delicious, enveloping sauce that will satisfy your palate bite after bite, just like any comfort food should! You just need a few ingredients and a bit of patience to bring to the table a really tasty meat dish, which can easily become a one-pot meal... just pair it with some Pilaf Rice and... lunch is served!
Also try turkey tonnè , a classic of Piedmontese tradition revisited with turkey.
To make the turkey stew, first prepare the meat broth , then cut the vegetables for the soffritto: peel the carrot and dice it ; do the same with the onion . Tie the sprigs of thyme and rosemary together with kitchen twine, then cut the turkey breast into regular chunks about 3/4 inch thick .
Heat the oil in a saucepan, add the carrot and onion and sauté the soffritto over medium-high heat for about 5 minutes, stirring very often to prevent burning. Then add the turkey , brown it for a couple of minutes, then sprinkle in the flour and toast it for another 2-3 minutes, still stirring often.
Once absorbed, pour the tomato sauce and meat broth into the saucepan, season with salt and pepper,
add the bunch of aromatic herbs (thyme and rosemary) , cover with a lid and cook over low heat for 40 minutes. Meanwhile, peel the potatoes and cut them into regular cubes about 1/2 inch thick .
After 40 minutes, add the potato cubes to the saucepan , cover again with the lid and cook for another 20 minutes, still over low heat. Once the cooking time is up, turn off the heat, remove the bunch of aromatic herbs and your turkey stew is ready to be served!
The turkey stew can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, in a tightly sealed container. You may choose to prepare the stew and enjoy it the next day, allowing the flavors to meld together for the best taste.
The turkey stew can be frozen in appropriate containers for up to 6 months, if you used fresh, not previously frozen, products.
Like any good stew, turkey stew pairs perfectly with peas, as an alternative or in addition to potatoes, and can, indeed should, be accompanied by white rice, a few slices of bread, or a nice mashed potatoes (in this case, omit them from the recipe)!

