name:
Gingerbread Wreath
ingredients:
Sugar: 0.8cup(160 g)
Type 00 flour: 2.8cups(350 g)
Butter: ½cup(110 g)- (cold from the fridge)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Honey: 2 ½tbsp(50 g)
Cinnamon powder: 2tsp
Nutmeg: 1pinch- (to grate)
Powdered ginger: 2tsp
Ground cloves: 1pinch
Baking soda: ½tsp
Eggs: 1- (medium)
Food coloring: to taste- red
Powdered sugar: 1.3cups(150 g)
Egg whites: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the time for the dough to firm up in the refrigerator

instructions:
The gingerbread wreath is a Bread Wreath made with many gingerbread cookies, crumbly and with an aromatic taste typical of the holidays, especially in Northern Europe and North America. Making them with your children will really get you into the Christmas spirit, and the kitchen will be filled with the delicate aromas of honey, cinnamon, cloves, and ginger. A tasty and fun way to prepare the kids for Christmas and decorate your home, along with many other edible decorations you can find here!.
To prepare the gingerbread, place the flour, ground cloves , ground ginger, and ground cinnamon , and baking soda in the bowl of a mixer.
Add the sugar and a pinch of salt. Then also add the grated nutmeg, cold butter in pieces, and honey . Once you have all the ingredients , pulse intermittently with the blades to avoid warming the dough and create a sandy mixture .
Turn it out onto a work surface and form a well, then add the egg and mix first with a fork and then quickly by hand to avoid warming the dough. Gather it and form a dough ball, flatten it slightly, and wrap it in plastic wrap . Let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes.
After the necessary time, take the dough out of the fridge and roll it out into a disc 3/8 inch thick. Cut out about 30 cookies with cookie cutters, which will be used to make 2 gingerbread wreaths (you can quickly knead and re-roll the scraps to finish the dough). To create a perfect circle for your wreath, place an upside-down bowl in the center of a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and draw a circle around it. Arrange the cookies all around, slightly overlapping them: a ribbon should pass between each one, and you'll need 15 for each gingerbread wreath .
Bake the cookies in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 15 minutes (if using a fan oven, 300°F for about 8-10 minutes). When they're cooked, remove them from the oven and let them cool slightly , then transfer them to a wire rack to cool completely. Meanwhile, prepare the glaze: beat the egg white with an electric mixer, then gradually add the powdered sugar .
until a smooth consistency is achieved. Then transfer half of the glaze into a small bowl and add food coloring until a bright red color is obtained (16-17). Transfer the two glazes into two disposable piping bags without tips, cutting a small hole at the end. Decorate the edges of the cooled cookies
alternating the two glazes , then insert a ribbon between each cookie so it is visible and do the same for the other gingerbread wreath, so they are ready to be used .
The gingerbread wreath can be stored under a glass dome or in a tin container for up to 1 month.
The dough can be frozen wrapped in plastic wrap for 1 month.
You can decorate the gingerbread wreath as you wish, just change the color of the food coloring, and make the cookies in any style you prefer!

