name:
Pork tenderloin wrapped with agretti
ingredients:
Pork filet: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Speck: 2oz(50 g)- (sliced)
Dijon mustard: 1.4tbsp(20 g)- with honey
Thyme: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Friar's beard (agretti): 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to clean)
Garlic: 1clove
Brown stock: 0.8cup(200 g)
Maldon salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare the pork tenderloin wrapped with agretti, first clean the pork tenderloin from excess fat , then cut it into 4 parts ; you should obtain 4 fillets weighing about 5 oz each .
Brush the sides of the fillets with Honey Dijon Mustard , then wrap them with a slice of speck (if the slices are very thin, you can overlap a couple) and press lightly to make them adhere well to the meat .
Season the pork fillets wrapped this way with salt and pepper , oil , thyme, and rosemary , then let them rest for 10 minutes at room temperature to absorb the flavors.
After this time, place the fillets in a well-heated non-stick pan and brown them over medium-high heat for about 5-7 minutes, turning them on both sides .
At this point, transfer the browned fillets to a baking dish and bake in a preheated static oven at 300°F for 25-30 minutes ; use an oven probe to measure the internal temperature, which should reach 150°F. Meanwhile, clean the agretti by removing the roots and rinse them thoroughly.
Place the agretti in a pan where you have heated a drizzle of oil with a clove of garlic , salt , and let them wilt over medium heat for about 5 minutes. Keep the agretti aside .
Once cooked, remove the fillets from the oven and transfer them to a rack, then brush them on the surface with more Honey Dijon Mustard . Plate the hot fillet with the agretti on the side and drizzle with a bit of jus .
Garnish with marjoram and Maldon salt . Serve your pork tenderloin wrapped with agretti immediately !
It is recommended to consume the pork tenderloin wrapped with agretti as soon as it's ready.
It is important to measure the internal temperature of the tenderloin to achieve perfect cooking, which will remain slightly pink. Prolonged cooking, on the other hand, will make the tenderloin dry and tough.

