name:
Cacio e pepe supplì
ingredients:
Tonnarelli: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Rustic breadcrumbs: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 5
Cost: Low
Note + the time needed to set in the fridge (at least 2 hours)

instructions:
The supplì al telefono is the quintessential Roman street food: a fried rice croquette with tomato and melted mozzarella inside, a characteristic that gave it its peculiar name. The variant of cacio e pepe supplì is born from the perfect union between this specialty and the typical cacio e pepe pasta , a famous first course of Lazio cuisine topped with a velvety cheese sauce. In this case, the crunchy coating doesn't hide a rice filling but creamy Tonnarelli cacio e pepe cooked al dente, for a real explosion of flavor with every bite!
After tasting the cacio e pepe supplì, have fun trying other delicious supplì recipes:
To prepare the cacio e pepe supplì, start with the batter: in a bowl, pour the flour, salt , and water , then mix well with a whisk . Set aside.
In the meantime, bring a pot of lightly salted water to a boil and cook the tonnarelli until al dente . Pour a ladle of the cooking water into a bowl where you have previously mixed the grated pecorino and Parmigiano , then mix vigorously with the whisk .
Add a generous grind of black pepper , then drain the tonnarelli here and mix everything well .
Transfer the seasoned pasta into a baking pan and spread it evenly , then cover with cling film in contact . Let it return to room temperature and then place it in the refrigerator to firm up for at least 2 hours.
After the cooling time, take the pasta from the fridge, take a portion of the mixture with wet hands, and shape it into a cylinder . Dip the supplì in the batter and let the excess drain with the help of a fork .
Pass the battered supplì in rustic breadcrumbs and proceed in this way to form all the others; with these doses, you will get about ten. You are ready to fry: gently dip 1-2 supplì at a time into the oil at a temperature of 320°F and fry for about 4 minutes until golden and crispy. Drain on paper towels and enjoy your cacio e pepe supplì while still hot!
It is recommended to consume the cacio e pepe supplì immediately; if necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator for one day and reheat them in the oven, but they will lose their crunchiness.
Supplì can be frozen raw and then fried directly from frozen by slightly extending the cooking time.
It is very important to monitor the oil temperature to prevent the supplì from burning on the outside.

