name:
Truffle Ravioli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3
Salt: 1pinch
Yellow potatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Black truffle: 1.75oz(50 g)- fresh
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Milk: ½cup(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)
Black truffle: 0.7oz(20 g)- fresh

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Truffle ravioli are a refined first course rich in flavor. The fresh egg pasta wraps a delicate filling, enhanced by the unmistakable taste of black truffle. We will show you step by step how to make these ravioli at home and how to fold them by hand. As a final touch, a cheese cream adds a savory note, and black truffle shavings elevate the dish with their intense aroma. Truffle ravioli are the winning choice for special occasions, such as New Year's Eve, a romantic dinner, or if you want to impress your guests with a classy dish.
If you're looking for more truffle recipes, also try:

To prepare the truffle ravioli, first make a well with the flour and put the eggs in the center . Add a pinch of salt and gradually incorporate the flour with a fork .
Then knead with your hands until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough. Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in a cool, dry place for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, boil the potatoes in salted water, drain , and let them cool for a few minutes.
Mash the potatoes in a bowl and add the Parmigiano and freshly grated black truffle .
Adjust with salt and pepper , then mix all the ingredients . Put the mixture in a pastry bag and set aside.
In a bowl, pour the milk and add the Parmigiano , melt in a double boiler until you get a fairly liquid cream . Then set aside.
Take the dough, divide it in half and roll out the sheets with a pasta machine. Start with the largest thickness, then fold the edges of the sheet toward the center and pass it through the rollers again, gradually reducing the thickness . Continue this way until you reach thickness 3 on the machine. You will get 2 sheets about 1/16 inch (2-3 mm) thick.
On one sheet, with the pastry bag, place small mounds of filling , at a distance of about 1.5 inches from each other. With a brush, lightly wet the sheet around the filling with water , then cover with the other sheet, aligning the edges .
With your hands, try to eliminate the air around the filling and press the two sheets well together. With a pasta wheel, cut out square-shaped ravioli with a side of 1.5 inches . Cook the ravioli in boiling salted water for 3-4 minutes , until they float to the surface. Meanwhile, slightly heat the Parmigiano sauce.
Meanwhile, in a pan, melt the butter over medium heat, until it is golden and hot . Drain the ravioli, transfer them to the pan , and sauté gently for 1 minute. Plate .
Add the cheese cream , a few shavings of fresh truffle . Your truffle ravioli are ready to be enjoyed !
It is best to consume the truffle ravioli as soon as they are ready. Raw ravioli can be stored in the refrigerator, on a lightly floured tray and covered, for 1 day. Alternatively, if you have used fresh ingredients, it is possible to freeze them.
For a softer filling, you can add ricotta to the filling. For an even richer taste, you can replace the Parmesan cream with a mixed cheese fondue.

