name:
Braised Beef
ingredients:
Hanger steak: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
White onions: 2
Carrots: 2
Celery: 2ribs
Garlic: 2cloves
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Red wine: 2.1cups(500 g)- full-bodied like Chianti
Meat broth: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Tomato paste: 1spoonful
Potatoes: 1.8lbs(800 g)- preferably waxy
Milk: 0.4cup(100 g)
Butter: 1.75oz(50 g)
Black truffle: 1.1oz(30 g)- grated

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 3 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Braised beef is a traditional meat main course with timeless rustic flavors. The slow cooking at low heat allows the beef to become extremely tender and succulent, thoroughly absorbing the aromas of the sautéed vegetable mix and red wine. Accompanying the dish is a creamy mashed potato enriched with black truffle, adding a distinctive fragrant note to the meal. We'll show you step by step how to prepare a tender and flavorful braised beef, perfect for serving at a family or friend dinner!
Also try these variations:

To prepare the braised beef, first remove the outer membrane of the meat , then slice it and cut it into pieces about 1.5-2 inches .
In a large pot, pour in the oil, heat it up, and add the meat . Brown on all sides until golden , then remove the meat and set aside .
Dice the celery and carrot and slice the onion .
Transfer everything into the same pot where you browned the meat and sauté for 5-7 minutes over low heat, until the vegetables are tender. Add the rosemary and crushed garlic with skin .
Also add the tomato paste and cook for another 2 minutes. Place the meat back in the pot and deglaze with red wine .
Once all the alcohol from the wine has evaporated, add the beef broth and season with salt and pepper . Cover with a lid and cook for 2 and a half hours (or even 3 if needed): the meat should be very tender. If the cooking liquid is too thin, you can remove the meat from the pot and continue to cook to reduce its volume.
In the meantime, prepare the mashed potatoes. Boil the potatoes in plenty of salted water for about 30 minutes, until they're soft. Drain and let them cool for a few minutes, then mash them with a potato masher directly into a pot . Add the butter and previously heated milk .
Add the grated black truffle and mix until you achieve a homogeneous mixture . Plate by placing the mashed potatoes at the bottom of the dish .
Pour the meat on top , drizzle it with a spoonful of its cooking sauce, and finish with fresh chopped parsley . If you wish, you can also add black truffle shavings. Your braised beef is ready to be enjoyed .
Braised beef can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for about 2-3 days. To maintain its tenderness and flavor, it is advisable to reheat it slowly, preferably in a bain-marie or in a pot with a lid over low heat, adding a bit of broth if necessary, to prevent it from drying out too much.
For a different version, try adding spices like cinnamon, cloves, or juniper berries, which go well with the robust flavor of the meat. For a more intense flavor, use a dark beer instead of broth.

