name:
Chestnut gnocchi with pumpkin and speck
ingredients:
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Gluten free chestnut flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Eggs: 1
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Delica pumpkin: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to be cleaned)
Speck: 3.5oz(100 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Ladies and gentlemen, autumn is served! To best enjoy the unmistakable flavors of this season, here's a must-try first course: chestnut gnocchi with pumpkin and speck . It's a simple variation of ricotta gnocchi enriched with chestnut flour to obtain soft and rustic gluten-free gnocchi .
These homemade gluten-free chestnut gnocchi are perfect to pair with a creamy and tantalizing sauce like the one proposed here, which includes the unmistakable touch of gorgonzola . Pumpkin and speck, after all, often go hand in hand, and once again, you will be delighted by this inviting combination.
Try the chestnut gnocchi with pumpkin and speck yourselves, and then let yourself be tempted by other autumn gnocchi recipes , such as:
To prepare the chestnut gnocchi with pumpkin and speck, start with the gnocchi dough: in a bowl, combine the ricotta , the chestnut flour , and the egg .
Add the nutmeg and salt , then mix with a spoon .
Transfer the mixture onto a work surface dusted with chestnut flour and continue to work it until you obtain a soft, homogeneous, and slightly sticky dough . Divide the dough into smaller portions .
Form rolls , then cut them into pieces about 3/4 inch . Set the gnocchi aside and prepare the sauce.
Clean the pumpkin of seeds and internal fibers , then remove the skin and cut 10.5 oz of pulp into evenly sized cubes . Cut the speck into strips .
Heat the oil in a pan, add the speck , and sauté over low heat for a couple of minutes , then add the pumpkin .
Cook over medium heat for 10-15 minutes, stirring occasionally . In the meantime, bring a pot of salted water to a boil to cook the gnocchi. When the pumpkin becomes soft, lower the heat and add the gorgonzola , then add a ladle of hot water . Mix well to combine.
Cook the gnocchi in the boiling salted water . As soon as they float to the surface, drain them and transfer them to the pan with the sauce . Flavor with rosemary .
Gently stir over low heat to combine the gnocchi with the sauce . Plate and serve your chestnut gnocchi with pumpkin and speck, garnishing with rosemary as desired !
Chestnut gnocchi with pumpkin and speck can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
Raw gnocchi storage is not recommended, as it may compromise their texture.
If you prefer, you can substitute gorgonzola with taleggio, or omit it.
If you're looking for more gluten-free gnocchi recipes, also try the gluten-free gnocchi alla sorrentina ! If gluten is not an issue, alternatively, you can experiment with the Chestnut gnocchi made with potatoes and flour.

