name:
Chestnut Risotto with Castelmagno Fondue
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.67cups(320 g)
Precooked chestnuts: 2.1oz(60 g)
Chestnut cream: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(50 g)
Chives: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 5.67tbsp(80 g)
White wine vinegar: 1tsp(5 g)
White onions: ½
Castelmagno cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
An indispensable feature in a risotto? Undoubtedly, the creaminess! Like in our irresistible chestnut risotto with castelmagno fondue, a first course that celebrates the enveloping flavors of autumn. In this recipe, we propose a bold and refined pairing, perfect for impressing with the first taste: the soft and enveloping sweetness of chestnuts encounters the intense and slightly spicy taste of castelmagno, a mountain blue cheese that enriches the dish with a decisive character. The true secret of the creamy consistency lies in the emulsification with acidic butter: a technique that gives the risotto a unique softness, enhancing the taste with a pleasant tangy note. Perfect for special occasions or an autumnal treat, chestnut risotto with castelmagno fondue is the essence of balance between sweet and strong flavors.
Try other autumn risotto recipes :

To make the chestnut risotto with castelmagno fondue, start by preparing the acidic butter: cut the butter into cubes , place it in a small saucepan, melt it over very low heat , and then add the chopped onion . Let it cook for about 5 minutes.
Turn off the heat and add the vinegar , then stir and strain with a small sieve into a bowl .
Press the onions with the back of a teaspoon and put the strained butter in the refrigerator to set . Prepare the fondue: remove the rind from the castelmagno .
Grate the cheese with a coarse-grated grater . Heat the cream in a small saucepan over very low heat, then add the castelmagno . Slowly melt the cheese, stirring occasionally with a spoon or whisk .
Once completely melted, blend with an immersion blender , then pour it into a squeeze bottle, keeping 2 tablespoons aside to mix into the risotto. Leave it at room temperature. Begin cooking the risotto: pour a drizzle of oil into a pan and add the rice , then toast until the grains are transparent.
Continue cooking by adding hot water little by little . Three-quarters of the way through cooking, add the salt . While the rice is cooking, chop half of the chestnuts .
At the end of cooking, add the chopped pre-cooked chestnuts , then mix in the chestnut cream , the reserved castelmagno fondue, and the chilled and set acidic butter .
Finish with grated Parmigiano Reggiano , then adjust the salt and pepper. Combine everything and plate .
Garnish the plates with the reserved whole chestnuts , then create strips with the castelmagno fondue squeeze bottle and garnish with chopped chives. Your chestnut risotto with castelmagno fondue is ready to be served !
Store the chestnut risotto with castelmagno fondue in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in an airtight container.
If you prefer, you can omit the chestnut cream; in this case, we recommend slightly reducing the salt to better balance the taste.

