name:
Cups of amaretti, chestnuts and mascarpone
ingredients:
Chestnuts: 12.3oz(350 g)
Dark chocolate: 4.2oz(120 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Amaretti cookies: 1.75oz(50 g)
Amaretto (liquor): 1small glass
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Vanilla bean: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The cups of amaretti, chestnuts, and mascarpone are delicious desserts flavored with amaretto liqueur. This autumn dessert consists of a soft and tasty cream made with boiled chestnuts, dark chocolate, and mascarpone...and to finish, a handful of crunchy crumbled amaretti! It's a fairly simple dessert to prepare, although a bit of patience is required to boil the chestnuts.
To prepare the cups of amaretti, chestnuts, and mascarpone, start by selecting and scoring the chestnuts, then boil them in a pressure cooker for about 15 minutes or in a regular pot for 30 minutes. Drain them and peel them, removing the inner skin as well (this is a somewhat laborious task, if you don't have much time, you can purchase pre-boiled chestnuts). Place the chestnuts in a blender and blend them , add the shot of amaretto, the mascarpone , the seeds from a vanilla pod, and the powdered sugar , and blend everything again.
Pass the puree through a sieve to eliminate lumps or any traces of chestnut skin to obtain a creamy mixture. Place the chocolate pieces in a bain-marie , melt them and add the cubed butter, stirring until smooth ;
finally, add it to the chestnut and mascarpone cream . Mix all the ingredients well, place the cream in a piping bag, and fill 4 cups or small glasses . Finally, crumble the amaretti with a knife and add a generous spoonful on top of each cup. Serve the amaretti, chestnuts, and mascarpone cups immediately or store them in the refrigerator!
To prepare the cups of amaretti, chestnuts, and mascarpone, it's advisable to get some large and creamy chestnuts or beautiful large chestnuts: if you don't have time to make the puree from the chestnuts, you can buy ready-made chestnut cream, but reduce the sugar amount in the recipe. If you intend to prepare this dessert for children, you can replace the amaretto liqueur with an almond-flavored sugar syrup.

