name:
Autumn Chicken
ingredients:
Sliced chicken breast: 10.6oz(300 g)
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)- boiled
Water: 0.42cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Chestnuts: 0.67cup(100 g)
Chanterelle mushrooms (chanterelle): 2cups(200 g)
Cauliflower: 4cups(400 g)
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 3cups(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 2
Note + the soaking time for the chestnuts (2 h)

instructions:
With Autumn Chicken, we offer you a captivating reinterpretation of the typical homemade chicken breast skillet. Tradition and innovation come together here in a dish that enhances the flavors of autumn. To accompany the tender chicken slices, golden in the pan, we chose a colorful and tasty mix that embraces all consistencies: a velvety mashed potato , crunchy pan-toasted cauliflower, sautéed chanterelles, braised kale leaves, and, to finish, crumbled roasted chestnuts . In Autumn Chicken, you'll find typical vegetables of the season in a new and even more appetizing guise! This gourmet main course is not just a celebration of autumn flavors but also an expression of culinary creativity accessible to everyone!
Don't miss out on these tasty chicken breast recipes as well:

To prepare the autumn chicken, score the chestnuts and soak them for a couple of hours , then place them on a baking sheet and bake in a static oven at 350°F for about 30 minutes.
Pass the boiled potatoes through a potato ricer and put them in a saucepan with water .
Add salt and oil , mix well, and cook over medium heat for a few minutes. Season with pepper and turn off the heat . Separate the cauliflower florets .
Slice the florets into half-inch slices . Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan , add the cauliflower, and season with salt .
Sauté for a few minutes and set aside. In the same pan, add the cleaned and halved chanterelles, season with salt and pepper , and sauté for a few moments over high heat . Keep the mushrooms warm as well.
Meanwhile, the chestnuts will be cooked, remove them from the oven and peel them immediately . Now take care of the kale: heat up a splash of oil in a pan , add the smaller, tender leaves .
Season with salt and sauté for a few minutes to wilt them . Set these aside too, and in the same pan, add a final splash of oil, place the chicken breast , and brown it on both sides .
Once the chicken breast is well browned , season with salt and immediately plate with the vegetables alternated between the slices. Complete your autumn chicken with crumbled chestnuts and serve immediately !
We recommend consuming the autumn chicken immediately.
You can prepare the vegetable sides in advance and reheat them before serving with the chicken breast.
You can vary the autumn vegetables according to your taste: radicchio, Swiss chard, and a celery root puree are excellent alternatives!

