name:
Leek and Chestnut Cream
ingredients:
Leeks: 1.4lbs(620 g)
Chestnuts: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Water: 4.7cups(1.1 l)
Bread: 1.5oz(40 g)
Rosemary: 5sprigs
Sage: 8leaves
Nutmeg: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Imagine warming your hands around a steaming bowl of an inviting soup. The one we present to you today is truly special, it is leek and chestnut cream. A simple and appetizing autumnal first course, the sweet and harmonious flavor of leeks, its soft and velvety consistency will surely improve your day. This recipe takes us back in time when dishes with simple and humble ingredients like this, farmer's eggs or beans and escarole soup , were commonplace. Rediscover bygone times with us by enjoying a bowl of leek and chestnut cream for dinner, and soon you'll have to reconsider the famous saying "cold hands, warm heart." In the warmth, both will be!
Don't miss these variations as well:

To prepare the leek and chestnut cream, start with the chestnuts. Wash them, dry them, and then put them in a pot full of cold water , bring them to a boil . Cook for 10 minutes and then drain them .
Take advantage of the fact that they are still very hot to peel them and peel them with the help of a paring knife : it will be easier to clean them .
Then chop the rosemary and sage leaves and put them in a bowl; clean the leek by removing the two ends and the outer leaves, then slice it thinly . Move to the stove. Put a large pot over the heat and pour in a swirl of oil. As soon as it is heated, add the chestnuts .
Sauté for a few moments and add about 2/3 of the aromatic mixture , lower the temperature a bit, stir and let it cook for 7-8 minutes . After that, add the leek ,
stir again and cook for another 6-7 minutes, so the leek softens well. In the meantime, pour the water into a pot and heat it. Then pour it over the mixture , cover with a lid and let it cook on low heat for about 40 minutes .
In the meantime, deal with the bread, cut it into cubes of about 1 inch using a serrated knife and then toast it in a preheated pan with a little oil , season with the remaining aromatic mixture ,
a dash of pepper and nutmeg . Sauté for a few moments over high heat so that they absorb the flavors and toast a little; then set them aside. As soon as the chestnut and leek mixture is cooked ,
blend it while it is still hot : adjust the consistency by adding a bit more water if needed . Pour the leek and chestnut cream into plates, garnish with the bread cubes, a couple of sage leaves, a drizzle of raw oil and enjoy !
The leek and chestnut cream can be stored for 2-3 days in the refrigerator. If necessary, you can also freeze it.
For a tastier dish, try cooking the leek and chestnut cream with a light vegetable broth. Toast the bread with some chili along with the suggested mix of aromas or, instead of cubes, leave the bread whole and toast it in the oven with plenty of cheese. For a non-vegetarian alternative, you can toast slices of bacon in a pan: you'll taste a delight!

