name:
Chestnut and Sausage Ravioli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3
Sausage: 8.8oz(250 g)
Chestnuts: 3 ½cups(500 g)
Sage: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Eggs: 1
Red wine: 3 ½glasses(500 g)- new wine
Shallot: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(10 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time for fresh pasta (about 30 minutes)

instructions:
Chestnuts and young wine: flavors of autumn and flavors of old times. The smell of embers and cellars, ancient stories of nearby and distant farms intertwine in evenings spent by the warmth of the fireplace. To bring some of these sensations into everyday life, we offer you chestnut and sausage ravioli: a thin homemade egg pasta encloses a tasty filling of crumbled chestnuts and succulent sausage. These soft pasta parcels are immersed in a reduction of young wine, a wine obtained through carbonic maceration of unpressed grapes. A true comfort food with its taste and aroma, it would even be perfect for the Christmas Eve dinner if you are among those who do not follow traditions. Discover all the flavors of autumn in this homemade first course of chestnut and sausage ravioli.
To make the chestnut and sausage ravioli, start by boiling the chestnuts: place the whole chestnuts in a pot of boiling water and boil them for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the pasta: sift the flour into a bowl , add the eggs .
Knead with your hands until you obtain a compact dough , wrap it with plastic wrap and let it rest for 30 minutes in a cool, dry place. Meanwhile, attend to the sausage: cut the casing lengthwise
and remove it, chop the sausage and sage leaves . Meanwhile, the chestnuts will have cooked .
Drain them and cool them in a bowl of cold water . Once cooled, peel them and set aside.
In a pan, add the sausage , brown it in its fat for 5 minutes, then season with the chopped sage . In a bowl, crumble the chestnuts coarsely with your hands, add the browned sausage
season with grated Grana Padano , start mixing then add the egg and knead the filling to combine .
Take the dough, divide it into pieces with a dough cutter, flour each piece , pass the first piece (you can keep the others wrapped in plastic wrap until you roll them out) and insert it into the pasta machine , you will need to work it from the thickest setting to the second last, passing the pasta through this setting multiple times until you obtain sheets about 1/16 inch thick (2-3 mm). Divide the sheet in half and cut into squares about 2x2 inches .
In the center of each square, place a small ball of filling . Fold the pasta, aligning two opposite corners to create triangles and seal the edges well with a light pressure of your fingers. As you make the ravioli, place them on a tray lined with a floured cloth .
Place a pot with plenty of water on the heat, which will later be used to cook the ravioli; salt the water and bring to a boil. Meanwhile, clean and thinly slice the shallot . Heat the olive oil in a pan, add the shallot and sauté for a few minutes, then cover it with the young wine and cook over medium heat for 30 minutes to reduce the sauce.
When the sauce has thickened, turn off the heat and strain it through a sieve (29-30).
Boil the ravioli for 5 minutes in the pot with water that has reached boiling , meanwhile melt the butter in a pan and add the young wine sauce , heat over moderate heat.
Once the ravioli are ready, drain them with a slotted spoon directly into the pan with the young wine sauce , add a ladle of cooking water and toss for a few moments, just to flavor the ravioli. Serve the chestnut and sausage ravioli immediately, garnishing the dish with fresh sage leaves .
It is recommended to consume the chestnut and sausage ravioli immediately. Freezing the preparation once cooked is not advised. You can freeze the uncooked ravioli and cook them directly from frozen. To freeze the ravioli, it is recommended to place them well spaced on a tray and put them in the freezer long enough to harden, in this way you can then store them in a freezer bag without the risk of them sticking together.
If you do not like the young wine sauce, you can dress the ravioli with just butter and sage. For a vegetarian version, you can replace the sausage with ricotta.

