name:
Gnocchi with pumpkin cream, mushrooms and ricotta
ingredients:
Potato gnocchetti pasta: 11.5oz(320 g)
Delica pumpkin: 1.1cups(250 g)
Pumpkin seeds: 2 ¼tbsp(20 g)
Cabbage sprouts: ¼cup(20 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.7cup(150 g)
Shallot: 2.1oz(60 g)
Chives: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Olive oil: 1spoonful
Mixed mushrooms: 7oz(200 g)- (Oyster, Portobello, Pioppini)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
The gnocchi with pumpkin cream, mushrooms, and ricotta is a simple yet flavorful autumn first course, perfect for warming the table with enveloping flavors and creamy textures. The pumpkin cream adds sweetness to the dish, while the sautéed mushrooms provide a savory touch. The potato gnocchi , finally, make each bite irresistible with their softness.
Ideal for both a daily lunch and a more refined dinner, these gnocchi are enhanced with a gourmet touch: the ricotta quenelle, toasted pumpkin seeds, and fresh sprouts offer crunch and an elegant aesthetic, transforming a simple recipe into a proposal suitable even for a special occasion. The gnocchi with pumpkin cream, mushrooms, and ricotta is the ideal recipe to bring autumn to the table with a touch of creativity!
Here you find other delicious gnocchi recipes for this season:
To prepare the gnocchi with pumpkin cream, mushrooms, and ricotta, clean the pumpkin and cut it into pieces . Clean the shallot and slice it . Clean the mushrooms and slice both the pleurotus and portobello .
In a saucepan, brown the shallot with olive oil , then add the pumpkin and sauté over medium heat for a few minutes. At this point, pour the water and cook for 15 minutes over medium heat.
When the pumpkin is soft , remove from heat and blend with an immersion mixer to obtain a smooth and velvety puree . Set aside the pumpkin cream and proceed to cook the mushrooms: pour a drizzle of oil into a pan and brown a clove of garlic and some chili pepper cut in half .
Add the mushrooms and sauté over high heat, adjusting with salt; it will take about 10 minutes. As soon as they form a crust, remove them from the heat, discard the garlic and chili pepper , and set aside. Cook the gnocchi in salted boiling water .
In the meantime, transfer the pumpkin cream to a pan . As soon as the gnocchi float to the surface, drain them into the pumpkin cream and mix, then add chives and a drizzle of oil .
Plate the gnocchi and add the sautéed mushrooms , then finish with a ricotta quenelle. Garnish with sprouts and pumpkin seeds and serve your gnocchi with pumpkin cream, mushrooms, and ricotta immediately !
We recommend consuming the gnocchi with pumpkin cream, mushrooms, and ricotta immediately.
You can also use champignons for a more delicate flavor or fresh porcini if in season for a more fragrant touch.

