name:
Cinnamon pull apart bread
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(380 g)
Brown sugar: ¼cup(35 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.4oz(12 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)- softened
Eggs: 1.9oz(55 g)- (approximately 1 at room temperature)
Water: 0.6cup(140 g)- (at room temperature)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Cinnamon powder: ¾tsp(2 g)
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: ¼cup(45 g)- melted
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note plus 2 hours of rising

instructions:
The cinnamon pull apart bread is a typical Anglo-Saxon recipe. A sweet bread with a very unique shape, enriched with a butter and cinnamon cream. Similar to a Brioche bread due to its shape, and to Swedish cinnamon rolls for their taste. "Pull apart" means separable, and you will be able to easily pull apart a slice of this bread, without using knives or other tools. The shape of this sweet bread resembles an accordion, and there are many ways to embellish it. You can make savory versions by adding garlic or cheese, or even more delicious sweet variations that include chocolate and hazelnuts. So start experimenting with our cinnamon pull apart bread and take inspiration to create many new recipes!
To prepare the cinnamon pull apart bread, start by making the dough. First, pour the brewer's yeast into the water and stir until completely dissolved . In the bowl of the stand mixer, add the flour, the water with yeast ,
the brown sugar , the cinnamon , and the vanilla extract .
Mix the ingredients with the hook until you get a sandy mixture . Add the egg and continue mixing until fully absorbed. At this point, add the softened butter a small piece at a time, waiting for it to be well absorbed before adding more.
Finally, add the salt and continue mixing until you have a well-combined dough . Transfer it to the work surface, round it into a ball, and place it in a bowl . Cover with plastic wrap and let rise at about 75°F for 1.5 hours.
In the meantime, prepare the filling: melt the butter and let it cool slightly. Then add the brown sugar and cinnamon in a bowl . Add the melted butter and mix the ingredients with a fork ,
to obtain a homogeneous mixture and transfer it to the refrigerator. Take the risen dough , place it on a floured surface
and roll it out on the work surface forming a rectangle about 16x14 inches. Spread the butter and cinnamon cream over almost the entire surface, leaving only 0.4 inches free from the edges .
Cut into 4 strips, each 4 inches wide and stack them one on top of the other .
Cut squares about 3 inches each . Butter a slightly tapered loaf pan, measuring 10x4.5 inches at the top and 8.5x3 inches at the base. Place the squares inside , standing them vertically to fill it well .
Let it rise in a sheltered place for 30 minutes , you can cover with a cloth. Bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F, on the middle rack, for 30 minutes (remember each oven is different, so the time may slightly vary). Remove from the oven and let cool slightly before removing from the pan and serving your cinnamon pull apart bread .
Cinnamon pull apart bread can be stored for 2 days under a glass dome at room temperature. Alternatively, you can freeze it after baking.
Add vanilla seeds to the dough and chopped nuts between each square!

