name:
Sweet and sour rabbit stew
ingredients:
Rabbit: 3.3lbs(1.5 kg)- in pieces
Worcestershire sauce: 6.8tbsp(100 ml)
Type 00 flour: to taste
Borettane onions: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Carrots: 1.8cups(200 g)
Celery: 5.3oz(150 g)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Canned tomatoes: ¼cup(50 g)
Cinnamon powder: to taste
White wine vinegar: 3spoonfuls
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Sugar: 2spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Wild fennel: 0.2oz(6 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Are you looking for a dish with rustic flavors but with an exotic twist? We have a succulent recipe in perfect fusion style for you: sweet and sour rabbit stew. A delicious main course where the most traditional Italian rabbit stew, with its tender and juicy meat, meets a creamy and tantalizing sweet and sour sauce that invites you to mop up every last bit. The slow cooking, which will result in an incredibly tender dish, will fill your entire house with its aromatic scents, and we are sure that anyone nearby will not be able to resist tasting it even before the stew is ready! Explore new flavors and prepare sweet and sour rabbit stew with us, your taste buds will thank you!
Also try the chicken stew with chestnuts and mushrooms , perfect for your fall dinners!
To make the sweet and sour rabbit stew, start by carefully flouring the pieces of meat , then brown a few pieces at a time in a pan where you have poured 8 tablespoons of oil . Brown the meat over medium heat to seal its surface. When the rabbit is well browned and you have finished all the pieces,
set it aside in a bowl . Now prepare the sauté: peel and chop the carrot , then wash and chop the celery stalk .
In a high-sided pot, preferably cast iron, heat a drizzle of olive oil , then add the borettane onions , the chopped vegetables for the sauté, and the bay leaves . Sauté everything over low heat for about 10 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the dressing: pour the Worcestershire sauce into a bowl , add the vinegar , the sugar ,
the ground cinnamon , the tomato pulp , and finally the water .
Once the onions are browned, add the reserved rabbit pieces , cover with the sauce you prepared earlier . Scent with fresh fennel ,
cover with the lid and continue cooking for 45 minutes over medium heat until the liquid has reduced by at least three-quarters. Once cooking is complete , serve your sweet and sour rabbit hot .
The sweet and sour rabbit stew can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days in an airtight container. It can be frozen if you used fresh ingredients.
If you can't find borettane onions, you can use small shallots instead.

