name:
Pumpkin cake
ingredients:
Mantuan pumpkin: 2cups(500 g)- (pulp)
Sugar: 2 ¾tbsp(35 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Eggs: 3- medium
Vegetable oil: ⅔cup(150 ml)
Whole cane sugar: (150 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.4cups(175 g)
Almond flour: ¾cup(75 g)
Whole milk: 0.4cup(100 ml)
Baking powder: 3 ¼tsp(16 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Chopped hazelnuts: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
For Halloween night, it dresses up as a cheesecake , or dives into soft muffins . This pumpkin cake will also be the perfect dessert to use pumpkin in the most delicious way in the kitchen! Before using it in the batter, without butter, the pumpkin is baked in the oven and flavored with a sprig of rosemary. A pinch of cinnamon will make the pumpkin cake even more special and refined, while the addition of chopped hazelnuts perfectly complements its softness. The result is a cake with a creamy texture, ideal for breakfast or snack!
If you love sweet preparations with pumpkin, follow our advice to prepare a cold cheesecake , the beautiful Halloween cake or the American pumpkin pie !
To prepare the pumpkin cake, start by extracting the pulp by removing the outer part with a sharp knife , then remove the seeds and slice the pumpkin not too thinly .
Place it on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and lay a few rosemary needles on each slice , then sprinkle with granulated sugar , then bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 60 minutes (320°F for about 50 minutes if using a fan oven). When the pumpkin is ready, slightly roasted and softened, remove the rosemary sprigs ,
then pass the cooked pumpkin through a sieve to remove excess water . In a separate bowl, crack the eggs and beat them with an electric mixer; add the brown sugar and continue to beat until the sugar dissolves.
In another small bowl, sift the all-purpose flour and add the baking powder . Then add the almond flour to the egg and sugar mixture , then the all-purpose flour with the baking powder .
Continue to mix with the beaters, then slowly pour in the vegetable oil and when all the dry ingredients are well incorporated, flavor with ground cinnamon . At this point, add the pumpkin pulp .
Mix thoroughly, then add the milk and continue mixing; finally, add the chopped hazelnuts
and fold them into the mixture . Butter and line a 9-inch cake pan with parchment paper and pour in the cake batter (20-21). Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40 minutes (320°F for about 30 minutes if using a fan oven).
Once baked, take it out and let it cool slightly before removing it from the mold and allowing it to cool completely ; before serving, you can dust this pumpkin cake with powdered sugar .
You can store the cake under a glass dome for 2-3 days.
It can be frozen if you used all fresh, not previously frozen, ingredients.

To make the pumpkin cake even more delicious, you can add chocolate chips instead of chopped hazelnuts. You can use raw cane sugar as an alternative to whole cane sugar.

