name:
Two-tone cocoa and pumpkin cookies
ingredients:
Pumpkin: 1 ¾cup(400 g)- Neapolitan
Type 00 flour: 3 ½cups(405 g)
Potato starch: 0.625cup(100 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Egg yolks: 0.5oz(15 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 6tbsp(30 g)
Strawberry jam: 1cup(250 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Note + 30 minutes of resting

instructions:
On Halloween, pumpkin and treats can't be missed, which is why we created delicious and crumbly cookies with a scary two-tone cocoa and pumpkin look, perfect for adding flavor to the basket of kids dressed up for the occasion. This time, it won't be the pumpkin that's carved, but the shortcrust pastry! We had fun carving little eyes and scary mouths to create fragrant, two-tone, and two-flavor pumpkin cookies that will be irresistible. Come and find out how to make the spookiest party of the year sweeter and more enticing.
To make the two-tone cocoa and pumpkin cookies, first prepare the pumpkin. Peel it and cut it into cubes . Steam until it becomes soft .

Once cooked, blend it to obtain a puree , you'll have about 7 oz (200 g) of puree. Let it cool. Once the pumpkin is cool, prepare the shortcrust pastry. Pour the flour and butter into a bowl .

Work with your hands to create a sandy texture , then add the egg yolk and sugar .
Also add the pumpkin pulp , potato starch , sugar, and knead .

You should obtain a homogeneous dough . Divide the dough into two equal parts. Keep one as it is and add cocoa to the other . Work to mix well .
This will give you a dark dough . Cover both doughs with plastic wrap and let them rest in the fridge for 30 minutes. After the time, roll out the dark dough to a thickness of about ¼ inch.
Cut out 20 cookies with pumpkin-shaped cutters about 2¾ inches . Make cuts with a small knife . Now roll out the light dough in the same way .
Cut out 20 cookies with the same cutter . With a small knife, carve the eyes and mouth . Lay the light cookies

and the dark cookies on two trays and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 25 minutes. Once baked, take out the cookies and let them cool.

Fill the dark cookies with jam and close them with the light cookie . The two-tone cocoa and pumpkin cookies are ready to be enjoyed .
You can store the cookies in a tin box or under a glass dome for up to a week. The shortcrust pastry can be frozen raw.
You can vary the filling by using a different flavored jam or hazelnut spread.

