name:
Spiderweb Cupcake
ingredients:
Potato starch: 0.67cup(80 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)
Sugar: 3 ¼tbsp(40 g)
Condensed milk: 0.65cup(200 g)
Milk: 0.55cup(130 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Water: to taste
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 6tbsp(30 g)
White chocolate: 4.25oz(120 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the setting of the decorations

instructions:
Are you planning a themed party for the Halloween evening? If the costumes and home decorations are ready, all you have left to do is prepare some delightfully monstrous treats! Pumpkins, ghosts, skeletons, witches: for this spooky night, there is no limit to imagination, and we reveal how to prepare delicious chocolate and condensed milk spiderweb cupcakes! Making these cocoa treats covered with chocolate glaze will be fun, and you can get creative with the white chocolate decorations: don't be put off by their appearance... you will be won over by the deliciousness of these terrifying cupcakes from the first bite! All that's left to say is: trick or treat?
To prepare the chocolate and condensed milk spiderweb cupcakes, first, in a bowl, sift together the flour with the potato starch , the unsweetened cocoa powder , and the baking powder .
Add the sugar , mix everything with a teaspoon , and add the condensed milk .
Turn on the mixer, then pour in the milk and start mixing and continue to mix .
until you achieve a smooth and homogeneous mixture. Transfer the mixture into a disposable piping bag to which you can cut the tip. Take a muffin tin, line it with paper liners, and fill them with about 1.4 oz of batter each . Bake them in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 30-35 minutes (or in a convection oven at 320°F for about 20-25 minutes).
Once ready, take them out of the oven and let them cool. Then prepare the chocolate glaze: in a saucepan, heat the water, then in a bowl, add the cocoa powder and powdered sugar and pour in the hot water ,
mix with a whisk until it becomes fluid and homogeneous ; once ready, cover the cupcakes by pouring it over the surface with a teaspoon and let it solidify at room temperature. In the meantime, prepare the materials for the spiderweb decoration: melt the white chocolate in a double boiler, making sure that the saucepan's water doesn't touch the bottom of the bowl in which you have placed the chocolate. Stir with a whisk to help it melt more easily ,
then take a sheet of parchment paper and, on the dull side, use a pen to trace the circumference of a bowl or a glass with a diameter of 2.75 inches , then begin to draw the spiderweb: starting from the circle's diameter, draw 8 equal sections, then from the outside, connect two sections at a time by drawing small arches: you will need three for each section to simulate the spiderweb's mesh . Transfer the white chocolate into a piping bag, turn the parchment paper over, and following the drawing, create the decoration with the white chocolate . Once you've finished the spiderwebs for all the cupcakes, place them in the freezer to solidify for about half an hour.
When the spiderwebs have solidified well as well as the glaze on the cupcakes, using a spatula, gently place the decorations on the treats , and your spiderweb cupcakes with chocolate and condensed milk are ready to be enjoyed!
You can store your spiderweb cupcakes under a glass dome for up to two days.
They can be frozen, preferably without decoration or topping.
If you want, you can fill your cupcakes with jam or chocolate, and as an alternative to white chocolate, you can prepare Royal icing to decorate your cupcakes!

