name:
Pasta Mummies
ingredients:
Mini Bow tie pasta: 6.5oz(180 g)
Frozen peas: 1.4cups(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Black olives: - pitted
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 8 pieces

instructions:
Halloween is about to arrive, and the kids are ready to knock on neighbors' doors for the traditional trick or treat? Before kicking off the spookiest party of the year, let's recharge with a themed dinner: the menu includes delicious pasta mummies: cute baskets made with small bow-tie pasta flavored with pea pesto and garnished with olives and cheese, delightful little tricks to create spine-chilling mummies that are ready to bite into! Enjoy preparing pasta mummies with the little ones and don't forget to wear your most terrifying costumes!
To prepare the pasta mummies, start by boiling the peas for about 4 minutes . Place a pot full of water on the stove, and bring it to a boil, it will be used for cooking the pasta. Before the peas are fully cooked, take a small ladle of the pea cooking water (about 1.4 oz) and set it aside in a small bowl . After the peas are cooked, drain them
and place them in a tall glass, add the olive oil and the cooking water you set aside , blend the mixture with an immersion blender to obtain a cream.
Adjust the salt and set aside. Cook the mini bow-tie pasta, keeping them 3 minutes short of the indicated cooking time (about 6 minutes) . Cut the smoked cheese into medium-thick slices and make strips that can serve as "bandages" for our mummies .
Cut the olives in half to make the little eyes . Drain the mini bow-tie pasta, put them in a bowl, and dress with the pea pesto , flavor with the grated Parmigiano cheese .
Brush a muffin tin with oil , line the bottoms and sides of 8 molds with breadcrumbs , and fill them with about 1 and 1/2 tablespoons of pasta .
Place the olive slices on top of the pasta baskets to simulate the little eyes . Bake in a preheated oven at 390°F, for 10 minutes. After 10 minutes, add the cheese strips not perfectly aligned to create the bandages and bake again for just 2 minutes, the time for the cheese to melt. Once cooked, take your pasta mummies out of the oven and serve them hot .
The pasta mummies can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
Make the pesto with any type of seasonal vegetable such as kale, or spinach. Prefer vegetables with a nice green color to maintain the chromatic effect!

