name:
Monstrous Sandwiches
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Manitoba flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1 ½tsp(7 g)- (with dehydrated sourdough)
Charcoal: 0.5oz(12 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¼tsp(7 g)
White chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Dark chocolate: 2.1oz(60 g)
Raspberry jam: 0.8cup(250 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Note + rising times (about 2 h 30 min.)

instructions:
The monstrous buns are spooky and fun treats, perfect for Halloween! Black and gloomy, thanks to the addition of vegetable charcoal, these soft leavened bites hide a soft and delicious heart of raspberry jam. Eyes and sharp chocolate teeth with double flavor complete this themed mask. Welcome the monsters knocking on your door with these monstrous buns, treats and Halloween cookies and other spooky delights like:
To prepare the monstrous buns, start with the dough: melt the butter and let it cool. Pour the flours into a bowl with the yeast, the sugar , the vegetable charcoal, the milk , and start kneading.
When the mixture is fairly compact , pour in the melted butter and knead until fully absorbed. Now move to the workbench .
Add the salt and work for about 5 minutes. When you have obtained a smooth dough, form a ball, place it in a bowl , cover with plastic wrap, and let it rise for about 2 hours at room temperature. In the meantime, melt the dark chocolate in a double boiler or microwave and pour it into a paper cone you prepared earlier .
Set aside and also melt the white chocolate , then pour it into another paper cone .
On a tray lined with parchment paper, form 32 white chocolate circles to create the eyes and create the pupil in the center with the dark chocolate . In the same way, draw 32 small white chocolate triangles that will be the teeth . Transfer the tray to the refrigerator.
When the dough has doubled in size , divide it into 16 balls, each weighing 2 oz (60g) , roll them and place them on two trays lined with parchment paper .
Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for at least 30 minutes. After this time , bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 15 minutes. Once baked, let them cool at room temperature .
Cut the buns in half and fill them with raspberry jam , close them and apply leftover melted chocolate as adhesive for the eyes .
Make the chocolate eyes stick to the top part of the bun , while the teeth can be attached directly to the jam . Your monstrous buns are ready for "trick or treat?" !
The monstrous buns can be stored without filling at room temperature in a paper bag for one day.
You can freeze them after baking.
Edible powdered vegetable charcoal can be purchased at herbal stores, it serves to naturally color doughs and has a neutral taste that does not impact on preparations, both sweet and savory.

