name:
Ghost Tartlets with Grana Padano
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3.7cups(450 g)
Water: ¾cup(200 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 5oz(140 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Whole milk: 0.67cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(35 g)
Black sesame seeds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 30 pieces

instructions:
Are you looking for a way to amaze your guests on Halloween night? With the Grana Padano ghost tartlets, you'll leave them speechless, but not from fright! These savory tartlets are perfect for a buffet or as an appetizer and will win everyone over with their originality: the crispy base is made with a special shortcrust pastry , while the soft Grana Padano DOP mousse shapes into a cute little ghost. No one will be able to resist their funny expression and the Grana Padano ghost tartlets will disappear quickly... in one bite!
To make the Grana Padano ghost tartlets, start with the shortcrust pastry: pour the water and butter into a saucepan and melt it over the heat . When it boils, add 3.5 oz (150 g) of flour all at once .
Quickly mix with a wooden spoon until you get a smooth and compact mixture . Transfer the mixture to a bowl and gradually add the remaining 10.5 oz (300 g) of flour , kneading with your hands .
Continue working until you get a homogeneous dough; for convenience, you can move to the work surface . Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it cool in the refrigerator while you continue with the recipe. Coarsely chop the Grana Padano DOP into chunks and proceed with the mousse preparation.
Pour 3.5 oz (100 g) of cream into a saucepan, add the Grana Padano DOP , and melt over very low heat. When it has almost completely melted, add the milk and the flour .
Slightly increase the heat and continue stirring with a hand whisk for another 5 minutes . Turn off the heat and blend with an immersion blender , then transfer the cream to a wide, shallow container and cover with plastic wrap directly on the surface . Let cool in the refrigerator for at least an hour.
In the meantime, take the shortcrust pastry and roll it out with a rolling pin on a lightly floured surface to a thickness of 0.2 inches . Cut the pastry with a cutter 2 inches in diameter and prick the discs with a fork .
Now take molds with a base diameter of 1.2 inches and shape each disc on the underside , making sure to adhere it well to the sides . Place the molds with the base facing up on a baking sheet and prick the pastry with a fork . Bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 20 minutes.
While the tartlets are baking, take the Grana Padano DOP cream, add the remaining 5.3 oz (150 g) of cream, and whip the mixture with electric beaters . Transfer the mousse to a piping bag without a nozzle. After the baking time, remove the tartlets from the oven and unmold them , then let them cool for 5 minutes.
Fill each tartlet with a dollop of Grana Padano DOP mousse , then create the eyes with sesame seeds . Your Grana Padano tartlets are ready to be served !
The Grana Padano ghost tartlets can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
The Grana Padano DOP mousse can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days inside the piping bag.
Tartlets without filling can be stored at room temperature in a cool, dry place for up to 2 weeks.
Instead of shaping the shortcrust pastry on the outside of the 1.2-inch molds, you can line tartlet molds of the same diameter internally. Alternatively, you can simply leave them flat.
You can replace sesame seeds with other seeds you have available!

