name:
Vampire Donuts
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Manitoba flour: 2cups(250 g)
Brewer's yeast: 2 ½tbsp(21 g)- (with dehydrated sourdough)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Butter: 5 ¼tbsp(75 g)- soft
Sugar: 5 ½tbsp(70 g)
Eggs: 4oz(110 g)- (2 medium)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
Dark chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
Raspberry jam: to taste
Whole milk: ½cup(100 g)
Powdered sugar: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 22 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus rising times (about 2 and a half hours)

instructions:
We are ready to make your Halloween night truly spooky... get ready to get your hands in the dough, let's prepare vampire donuts together. The classic Donuts dress up to join the Halloween party, the snack will not be the same and your buffet will amaze all your guests. These donuts are really soft and covered with glaze or chocolate, they will be loved by both adults and children. Thanks to the well-risen dough and the right oil temperature, you will get a dry fry, and the donuts will be very light! Prepare them in abundance and decorate them with the little ones... it will be real fun! Here are other Halloween recipes we recommend you try:
To make the donuts, first, slightly warm the milk that you will need to prepare the dough. Meanwhile, pour the all-purpose flour and bread flour into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook . Add the sugar to the dehydrated sourdough yeast .
Start the stand mixer at moderate speed and pour in the milk slowly . Add the eggs little by little so as not to weigh down the dough and flavor with vanilla extract .
Finally, add the salt and continue working until the dough detaches from the sides of the bowl and is well-mixed. At this point, you can add the softened butter, one piece at a time , ensuring that each piece is well absorbed before adding more; this will take about 15-20 minutes. You should obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough .
Detach the dough from the hook with slightly dampened hands, then use a dough scraper to turn it out onto the work surface . Dust with a little flour and shape the dough into a ball, using a dough scraper to handle it more easily . Transfer it to a large bowl, previously buttered, cover with plastic wrap, and let it rest for 2 hours in the turned-off oven with the light on .
After the rising time, the dough will have doubled. Transfer it again to the lightly floured work surface and roll it out with a rolling pin .
You should obtain a thickness of 0.4 inches . Using a 3 inches diameter round cutter, cut circles from the dough , placing them close together. At this point, using a smaller, 2 inches cutter, cut out the donut holes .
Gently lift the donuts and place them on squares of parchment paper about 4 inches on each side placed on a tray ; also transfer the dough scraps to a parchment-lined tray. Cover the trays with a kitchen towel and let them rise for 40 minutes away from drafts.
When the donuts are almost risen, you can start preparing the glaze. Transfer the milk into a saucepan , warm it, and add the powdered sugar . Stir with a whisk as you go .
Cook until the mixture thickens , transfer it to a small bowl , and let it cool. Move on to frying. Heat the seed oil in a large pot until it reaches a temperature of 350°F. When the oil is hot, lift the first donut using the parchment paper and immerse it in the oil . Using the parchment paper ensures that the shape does not change.
After a few seconds, you can remove the parchment paper using kitchen tongs . Turn them on both sides with a slotted spoon until they are evenly golden, this will take about 3 minutes , then drain on paper towels . Immerse the dough scraps in the oil as well and fry them to make the famous donut holes.
While the donuts cool down, you can start melting the chocolate. Chop it and microwave it, operating for a few seconds at a time, until melted . Alternatively, you can melt the chocolate in a double boiler. Now, move on to the decoration. Dip the first donut halfway into the chocolate .
Lift it and turn it upside down on a rack . Stain plastic vampire teeth with jam and place them inside the donut hole. Then decorate with the candy eyes .
Do the same to decorate the donuts with the milk glaze. Dip them in the glaze, turn them upside down , transfer to a rack, and decorate as previously . Continue until all ingredients are used, let solidify, and serve your vampire donuts !
We recommend consuming the vampire donuts within a few hours.
Instead of the milk glaze, you can also make a water glaze. If you prefer, you can add drops of food coloring.

