name:
Candy Apples
ingredients:
Stark apple: 4
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Glucose: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp
Food coloring: to taste- powdered, red

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + at least 30 min. of drying

instructions:
How are candy apples made? We explain it in this recipe so that they come out shiny, crispy, and beautiful for Halloween! They are a typical American sweet, popular among the treats sold in the streets but also to be prepared at home, to include in the monstrous Halloween menu along with many other goodies and Halloween cookies! Large, juicy, and beautiful red apples to dip into a caramel colored with a bright hue. They will be a feast for the eyes and a sweetness to indulge in for the occasion, perhaps to share bite by bite! Will you feel like Snow White or the Witch? Let yourself be inspired as you prepare to welcome the children who will knock on your door shouting "trick or treat"...
Discover other Halloween sweets to prepare for the occasion:

To prepare the candy apples, first wash and dry them very thoroughly because they need to be completely dry . Remove the inner stem . Insert a rather long wooden stick in its place, such as a skewer stick .
In a high-sided saucepan, pour the water and the sugar , along with the glucose (or honey) .
Bring to a boil and cook for a couple of minutes without stirring on low heat: when the syrup reaches a temperature of 212°F (100°C) (to be measured with a kitchen thermometer) , you can add the ground cinnamon . Gradually add the red food coloring powder until the desired color is achieved .
Stir well to avoid lumps, until the powders are well blended. Place the saucepan back on the heat and continue to gently simmer the syrup until it reaches a temperature of 302°F (150°C) . It will take about 15 minutes. Turn off the heat and let it rest for a few seconds, just enough time for the boiling bubbles to disappear. Take one apple at a time, slightly tilt the saucepan, and dip the apples into the syrup, rotating them quickly to cover them entirely up to the stem area. Let the excess liquid drip off and place them on a tray lined with parchment paper or on plates . Let them cool until the coating has hardened, which will take at least 30 minutes. Your candy apples are ready to be bitten into!
Candy apples can be stored for 1 or 2 days at room temperature.
Freezing is not recommended.
To achieve a single, shiny layer, it is very important to dip the apples only once in the syrup, rotating them quickly.
To avoid bubbles forming on the apples, wait a few moments before dipping them. If you don't have a thermometer, you can check if the caramel is ready in this way: pour a little bit of syrup into a glass of water. If it solidifies, it's ready.
It is possible to replace glucose with honey in the same quantity.

