name:
Spooky Bull's Eye Muffins
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(380 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Butter: ⅔cup(140 g)
Eggs: 2
Baking powder: 3 ¼tsp(16 g)
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Raspberry jam: 1cup(300 g)
Food decorations: to taste- (sugar eyes)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Halloween is the spookiest night of the year, but also the one richest in sweets and candies! Our spooky bull's eye muffins are an easy Halloween treat to make at home. The muffins are classic ones, but to achieve a simple and effective decoration, we were inspired by the bull's eye cookies , thus creating a hole to fill with plenty of jam! An ideal sweet treat to prepare with the little ones... soft cupcakes perfect for breakfast or a snack, also perfect for enriching a buffet for a Halloween party or a pajama party! Here are some more spooky sweets you shouldn't miss:

To prepare the spooky bull's eye muffins, first melt the butter and let it cool. At this point, pour the eggs, milk , and now cooled butter into a bowl. Mix well with a whisk .
Once the mixture is smooth, add the sugar and mix again. Sift the baking powder into it and then also the flour .
Mix well until you obtain a thick, lump-free batter . At this point, butter and flour 12 aluminum muffin molds, arrange them on a baking sheet, and distribute the batter inside using a spoon . Bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F for 40 minutes .
After this time, check the baking with a skewer and remove the muffins from the oven , then let them cool. Remove the muffins from the molds and cut off the top using a serrated knife .
Create a hole in the center of the top with a 1-inch cutter; alternatively, you can use the nozzle of a piping bag . Spread the jam over the muffin base and put the cut top back on . Place a sugar eye in the center of the hole, where the jam now is . Your spooky bull's eye muffins are ready to be served!
The spooky bull's eye muffins can be stored at room temperature under a glass dome for 1-2 days.
If you don't have disposable molds, you can use the muffin tin directly, making sure to butter and flour it well. Instead of raspberry jam, you can also use cherry jam!

