name:
Monstrous Brioche Bread
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Spinach: 8.8oz(250 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(130 g)
Butter: ½cup(120 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 2- at room temperature
Sugar: 4 ¾tsp(20 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1.4tsp(7 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Oil: to taste- spray
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: to taste
Black sesame seeds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Note + rising time (at least 1 ½ hours in total)

instructions:
If you are organizing a Halloween party for children, you cannot miss having this adorable monstrous brioche bread at the buffet table! Homemade with good ingredients and lots of vegetables (which are often not easy to get children to eat!), it is a soft and original version of the Savory brioche bread . It is decorated with funny little eyes and cheese teeth and is naturally colored. Delicious to enjoy on its own or to accompany a platter of cold cuts, the monstrous brioche bread is a fantastic idea to entertain your little guests at snack time!
To make the monstrous savory brioche bread, first blanch the spinach for a few moments in boiling salted water , then drain them into a bowl of cold water . Drain the spinach and squeeze them well .
Transfer 3.5 oz (100 g) of cooked and squeezed spinach into a container, add 3.5 oz (100 g) of milk , and blend with an immersion blender to obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream .
Pour the flour into the bowl of a stand mixer equipped with a hook, then add the dry yeast , sugar , and spinach cream .
Start the stand mixer to combine the ingredients, then pour in the beaten eggs and continue working. When the mixture begins to come together, add the remaining 30 g of milk slowly and steadily, keeping the mixer running . Once absorbed, add the butter the same way, one piece at a time . Keep the speed at medium to prevent the dough from getting too warm.
When the dough is smooth and well combined, add the salt and work it in. Transfer the dough onto the work surface and shape it into a ball , then place it in a large bowl , cover with plastic wrap, and let it rise for about an hour, or until it doubles in volume.
After the rising time , stretch the dough with your fingertips to form a rectangle , then roll it up from the longer side .
You should get a roll as tight as possible . Transfer the roll to a loaf pan measuring approximately 10x4x4 inches, previously greased with spray oil . Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for at least 30 minutes or until the dough exceeds the rim of the pan .
After this time, brush the surface with a mix of yolk and cream that you have previously whisked together , then bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for about 35 minutes . Once cooked, remove the brioche bread from the pan while still warm and let it cool on a rack .
In the meantime, prepare the decorations: cut out cheese discs with a small circular cutter and place a black sesame seed in the center for the eyes , then cut small triangles for the teeth .
Once cooled, slice the brioche bread into slices about 1 1/4 inches thick and decorate each slice as you like with the cheese teeth and eyes . Your monstrous brioche bread is ready to be served !
The monstrous brioche bread can be stored at room temperature for 3 days, wrapped in plastic wrap or sealed in a food bag.
If you prefer, you can replace provolone with another semi-hard cheese!

