name:
Halloween Muffins
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(265 g)
Sugar: 0.67cup(135 g)
Whole milk: 0.6cup(135 g)- at room temperature
Butter: 0.55cup(125 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (2 medium)
Dark chocolate chips: 3.5oz(100 g)
Baking powder: 1.3tsp(6 g)
Orange peel: 1- (to be grated)
Baking soda: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cocoa glaze: 4.4oz(125 g)
Food decorations: 24- small eyes

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 12 pieces

instructions:
If you are looking for a delicious and fun treat to prepare on October 31st with the kids, you are in the right place! Our Halloween muffins are cute, monstrous cupcakes that will captivate both children and adults at first glance. Easy to prepare, even the little ones can have fun with the decoration: a delicious cocoa glaze, ready in no time, will make them irresistible. The final touch? Two sugar eyes that will bring these tasty monsters to life! Halloween muffins will be the perfect dessert to brighten up the witching night... get creative with this and other tasty Halloween recipes:

To prepare the Halloween muffins, pour the sugar into a bowl and add the softened butter . Scent with grated orange zest , then start beating the mixture with an electric whisk, adding the eggs one at a time .
Work with the electric whisk until you get a light and fluffy mixture . Now sift the flour, baking powder, and baking soda directly into the bowl with the mixture . Also, add the pinch of salt and turn on the whisk again to incorporate the powders. You will notice that the batter becomes thicker, so thin it with the milk poured in a trickle .
When the mixture is soft and homogeneous , add the chocolate chips and mix with a spatula to combine them .
Transfer the mixture to a disposable piping bag without a nozzle , this way you can work more precisely. Place the paper cases in a 12-muffin tray and fill them two-thirds full , leaving about half an inch from the edge .
Bake in a preheated oven at 350°F for 18-20 minutes in static mode. Remove from the oven and let cool completely . At this point, your chocolate chip muffins are ready to be decorated. Remove the paper cases , then apply the sugar eyes .
Stack the muffins on a small plate and prepare the glaze: bring some water to a boil in a saucepan. Turn off the heat and place the cocoa glaze packet inside for 7-8 minutes. Take it out and dry the packet well before opening. Pour the glaze into a pitcher, then let it drizzle over the cupcakes . Your Halloween muffins are ready to be served !
We recommend consuming the Halloween muffins immediately. Alternatively, you can store them without glaze for a couple of days under a glass dome.
Instead of orange zest, you can use vanilla extract to flavor the batter.
Instead of the piping bag, you can use a spoon to fill the paper cases.

