name:
Ghost Cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(325 g)
Butter: 6.5oz(185 g)- soft
Sugar: 1cup(120 g)- powdered
Eggs: 2
Vanilla bean: 1
Powdered sugar: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 50 pieces
Note + the resting time for the dough (30 min.)

instructions:
Ghost cookies are very easy-to-make Shortcrust Pastry Cookies , perfect for Halloween and suitable for all ages due to their simple taste! If your first concern upon seeing them is how to recreate this original shape without the specific mold, you will be surprised: you'll discover that we used a heart-shaped mold, which many of us often have at home... By splitting the heart in half and slightly shaping the dough, you will bring your little ghosts to life! These Halloween cookies are great to enjoy with a cup of tea, or you can package them in clear bags and gift them to the little ones during the spookiest night of the year!
In addition to ghost cookies, here are other sweet recipes for Halloween to prepare:

To prepare ghost cookies, first place the soft but still plastic butter, cubed, in a bowl . Add the powdered sugar and mix with a wooden spoon until you achieve a creamy consistency .
Then add the seeds from a vanilla bean and pour in the lightly beaten eggs . Mix well with the spoon .
Don't worry if the mixture seems separated . Add the flour all at once and start kneading with your hands .
When the flour starts to absorb, transfer the mixture to a work surface and knead it with your hands. Knead just enough to obtain a smooth dough . At this point, roll it out between 2 sheets of parchment paper and place it in the refrigerator to firm up for 30 minutes.
After this time, take the dough and place it on a floured work surface and roll it out with a rolling pin until you get a thickness of about 1/8 inch . If the dough is too hard, let it acclimate before rolling it out. At this point, using a heart-shaped cookie cutter (3x3 inches), cut out your cookies .
Carefully lift them one by one and re-knead the scraps. Repeat this operation until you obtain about 25 hearts. Then divide each in half . Take one half and form a drop shape with your hands by twisting the final tip .
This way, you'll get about 50 little ghosts . Now, with a 1/2 inch smooth nozzle, create the mouth and with a smaller one, 1/4 inch, create the eyes .
The first little ghost is ready ; repeat the same operation for the others and gently transfer them onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Bake the ghost cookies in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 13-15 minutes. When they are just golden, take them out and let them cool , then sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve your ghost cookies !
Ghost cookies can be stored for 3-4 days at room temperature, in an airtight jar.
You can decorate the ghost cookies with melted chocolate, or flavor them with lemon zest or cinnamon instead of vanilla.

