name:
Contemporary Pizza with Sausage and Potatoes
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 8cups(1 kg)- W300
Water: 1 ¾cup(440 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.6tsp(3 g)
Water: 1.1cups(260 g)
Fine salt: 5 ¼tsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tsp(3 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste
Potatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Sausage: 0.7lb(300 g)- Neapolitan
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 1.3lbs(600 g)- PDO
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 1.1lbs(480 g)- bocconcini
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + rising times (29 h total)

instructions:
The contemporary pizza with sausage and potatoes is a recipe by master pizza maker Vincenzo Capuano , one of the leading figures of the new generation of Neapolitan pizza makers. A perfect example of contemporary Neapolitan pizza , characterized by a high-hydration dough , long fermentation, and modern processing techniques, ensuring a soft, airy, and very light base. The cornicione is pronounced but well-balanced, while the center remains thin and soft, ready to accommodate rich and tasty toppings.
In this version, Capuano combines crispy baked potatoes, crumbled Neapolitan sausage, and buffalo mozzarella DOP, finishing it all with fresh basil and a drizzle of raw oil. The result is a gourmet pizza made at home that combines tradition and innovation, perfect for those who want to bring the authentic taste of pizza to the table with a professional touch.
After trying the contemporary pizza with sausage and potatoes, don't miss other delicious pizza recipes with cornicione:
To prepare the contemporary pizza with sausage and potatoes, start with the preferment: place the flour and crumbled yeast in a stand mixer equipped with a hook , then pour in all the water and mix just long enough to absorb all the flour; it will take about 3-4 minutes .
The dough should be very rough, not smooth, so break it into pieces and transfer it to a bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest for an hour at room temperature, then place it in the refrigerator for 24 hours. The next day, start by preparing the potatoes: peel them and cut them into 1/2-inch cubes .
Season with oil , salt, and pepper, then transfer the potatoes to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake in a fan oven at 428°F for about 20 minutes .
At this point, retrieve the preferment , divide it into smaller pieces , and place it in the stand mixer equipped with a hook. Pour in 3/4 of the water required for the dough and start the machine .
As soon as the dough has come together, add the salt and the remaining water, pouring it in a thin stream. Work until the dough is smooth, homogeneous, and very strong . Transfer it to a work surface .
Grease your hands with a little oil and make some strengthening folds , then cover the dough with a bowl (or a cloth) and let it rest for 10 minutes at room temperature .
With a dough scraper, divide the dough into 6 pieces of about 250-280 g (8.8-9.9 oz) each . Work the pieces by pushing the dough downward, then pinch it between your index and thumb and "mozzarella" it to seal it, as you would with mozzarella . Round the dough balls and place them in the rising box .
Cover with the appropriate lid and let rise for 4 hours at room temperature. Meanwhile, slice the mozzarella and squeeze it carefully to remove excess liquid. After the rising time, dust the dough balls with semolina and gently pick them up to stretch them one at a time.
Stretch a dough ball by hand with a sprinkle of semolina . With your fingers, press the center part, pushing the air outward to form the cornicione . Flip the dough and repeat the process on the opposite side. Transfer the pizza base onto the peel
Top with mozzarella , baked potatoes , and crumbled sausage . Bake in a static oven at 480°F for 5-7 minutes on the preheated pizza stone.
Remove the contemporary pizza with sausage and potatoes from the oven and, before serving it hot, garnish with fresh basil , buffalo mozzarella bites, and a drizzle of raw oil .
We recommend consuming the contemporary pizza with sausage and potatoes immediately.
If you have a professional oven, you can bake the pizza at 750°F for 90-120 seconds.

