name:
Marshmallow Ghosts
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Powdered sugar: ½cup(65 g)
Butter: 5.3tbsp(75 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 1 ½tbsp(15 g)
Egg whites: 4- medium
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Water: 0.3cup(70 ml)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Dark chocolate: 0.35oz(10 g)
Sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus the preparation and resting time for the shortcrust pastry (about 90 min.)

instructions:
Halloween is around the corner: for a spooktacular sweets buffet, why not prepare these fantastic marshmallow ghosts? Cute bonbons made of a base of cocoa shortcrust pastry covered with delicious soft marshmallow ghosts! Making marshmallow is a piece of cake and assembling the ghosts is really fun: arm yourself with a piping bag and lots of creativity to create the shapes and expressions of the Halloween ghosts.
To make the marshmallow ghosts, start by preparing the cocoa shortbread cookies that will serve as the base for the ghosts (see how to prepare the cocoa shortbread by clicking here ). Roll out a 1/8 inch thick sheet with a rolling pin and then, with a round pastry cutter with a diameter of 1.5 inches, cut out about 40 discs which you will bake in a preheated oven at 350°F for about 12-15 minutes . Let the cookies cool completely. To prepare the marshmallow, soak the gelatin in cold water until it becomes soft (at least 10 minutes). Squeeze the gelatin and dissolve it in a couple of tablespoons of boiling water, then set it aside. In a saucepan, pour the water, add the sugar, stir and bring to a boil : using a sugar thermometer, measure the temperature which should reach 250°F.
While the sugar is cooking, beat the egg whites with the salt and the vanilla bean seeds, when they are white and foamy, slowly add the cooked sugar at 250°F, and then the gelatin, continuously beating until the mixture is cool. Put the mixture into a pastry bag with a large round tip and then squeeze out a ghost about 2-2.5 inches high onto each cookie . Using melted dark chocolate, create the eyes and mouth on the ghosts , then sprinkle them with superfine granulated sugar . Leave the ghosts in the refrigerator in an airtight container for at least two or three hours and then serve them!

