name:
Sweet potato gnocchi with radicchio and speck
ingredients:
Sweet potatoes (or yams): 2.9lbs(1.3 kg)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¾cups(360 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Radicchio: 14.1oz(400 g)
Leeks: ½
Speck: 5.3oz(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Thyme: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Milk: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Taleggio cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 1 h 10 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Sweet potato gnocchi with radicchio and speck is a first course with a bold and tantalizing flavor. The characteristic sweetness of sweet potatoes meets the strong taste of radicchio and the smoky notes of speck to create an irresistible mix of flavors. Making these delicious bites at home is very simple, just follow a few small tips to obtain a perfect dough. And if you love sweet potatoes, come and discover other delicious recipes like the sweet potato cake , the Braised Beef with Artichokes and Sweet Potato Purée , and the Sweet potato soup .
Try other tantalizing combinations like Gnocchi speck and toma or mushrooms and taleggio or Potato, Speck, and Taleggio Pie !
To make the Sweet potato gnocchi , boil the potatoes with their skins on for 20 minutes , they should only be cooked on the outside, they will finish cooking in the oven which will dry them to prevent them from releasing water into the dough. Once cooked, drain the potatoes and cut them into slices about 0.5 inch thick , remove the skin, and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Bake them in a preheated convection oven at 350°F for 30 minutes (or in a static oven at 390°F for 40 minutes).
Once cooking is completed , pass the hot potatoes through a potato ricer to reduce them to a puree and add them to the sifted flour on a work surface and add a pinch of salt. At this point, you can work the dough , do not work it for long to avoid it becoming sticky.
until you obtain a compact mixture, shape it into a loaf and cover it with a tea towel. Then, with a dough cutter, divide the dough into pieces and create strands 1 inch thick , start cutting your gnocchi and place them on a floured surface or tray.
To finish, create the characteristic gnocchi ridges by sliding each gnocchi over the special gnocchi board or a fork, pressing slightly but not too much. Place the gnocchi on a floured tray and prepare the taleggio cream: cut the cheese into slices , then place a small saucepan on the heat and melt the butter over low heat, then add the flour to form the roux.
At this point, pour in the hot milk and lastly the pieces of taleggio cheese . Melt the cheese until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous sauce , salt and pepper to taste.
Set aside the obtained sauce and prepare the seasoning: finely chop the leek , peel the radicchio and cut it into very thin strips , do the same with the slices of speck , taking care to keep 4 whole for the dish garnish.
Soften the chopped leek with olive oil over low heat for at least 10 minutes, if necessary, extend with hot water or vegetable broth to prevent the leek from drying out too much. Add the speck , season with fresh thyme leaves , and also add the radicchio in strips , continue cooking for another 5 minutes, it should remain a bit crunchy.
Take the slices of speck set aside and cut them in half lengthwise , then roast the slices in a pan to make them crispy (23-24).
Now cook the gnocchi: place a pot of salted water on the heat and bring it to a boil, drop in the gnocchi and cook them for a few minutes, drain them when they start to float to the surface and pour them directly into the pan with the seasoning, extend with a tablespoon of cooking water .
Sauté them for a few moments to flavor them . Take the serving plates, pour a spoonful of taleggio cream on the bottom , then place a portion of gnocchi on top and garnish with the crispy bacon , serve the dish very hot.
Once cooked, store the sweet potato gnocchi in the refrigerator, sealed in an airtight container, for a couple of days at most. You can prepare the gnocchi in advance and freeze them by placing them in the freezer before cooking them: place them on a tray and then, once frozen, transfer them to the appropriate food bags. This way, you'll avoid the gnocchi sticking together.
Sweet potato gnocchi are perfect with intense flavor seasonings: try them also with a parmesan and artichoke cream or with sausage and mushrooms (when in season).

