name:
Air fryer roasted chestnuts
ingredients:
Chestnuts: 1lb(500 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 2 hours of soaking. For this recipe we used an air fryer with a capacity of 4.2 Lt

instructions:
As good as baked chestnuts, as fragrant as roasted chestnuts: air fryer roasted chestnuts are quick and easy to make! It starts with soaking, an optional step, which however allows you to eliminate the spoiled fruits and moistens the external peel of the chestnuts. In this way, and thanks to the ventilated cooking of the air fryer, peeling the chestnuts will be very easy! You will be truly amazed and you will not waste time eliminating their annoying skin. Another important indication: how are chestnuts carved? It is an operation that allows you to be safe when cooking: by making an incision on the most protruding part, you will prevent the chestnuts from exploding during cooking. Air fryer roasted chestnuts cook very quickly, but we guarantee you that the result will be the same as in other cooking methods! Taste them hot to fully enjoy their goodness!
To prepare the air fryer roasted chestnuts , first make a horizontal cut on all the chestnuts, using a small knife . Place them in a bowl and cover them with water . Let them soak for 2 hours . In this phase you can eliminate the damaged chestnuts.
Once the time has elapsed, drain them from the water and transfer them to the basket of a 4.2 liter air fryer . Spread them well so that they do not overlap .
Cook at 320°F (160°C) for about 15 minutes or in any case until the cut of the chestnuts is well opened . The chestnuts in the air fryer are ready , you just have to serve them .
We recommend consuming the chestnuts hot, as soon as they are ready. Alternatively, you can keep them at room temperature, or the best thing would be to peel them immediately and keep them in the fridge, and then warm them up before serving.
If you don't want to enjoy the chestnuts right away, wrap them in a tea towel to keep them warm.
If you want to cook more chestnuts make sure that they do not overlap during cooking and possibly increase the cooking times slightly. If there are too many, we recommend using a bigger fryer or cooking them in two times.

