name:
Braised Beef with Pumpkin
ingredients:
Beef sirloin: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Pumpkin: 1 ¼cup(300 g)- already cleaned
Red wine: ½cup(100 g)
White onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Vegetable broth: 1cup(250 g)
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 3 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Beef sirloin, pumpkin cubes, and a good glass of red wine are the ingredients we used to create this seasonal main course we present to you today. The braised beef with pumpkin, thanks to a high-quality cut and slow, long cooking, will be tender and very flavorful. This dish will win you over with its typically autumnal colors, due to the queen of this period: the pumpkin, which transforms into a creamy accompaniment to the meat. Make the braised beef with pumpkin yourself, a perfect dish for both a family Sunday lunch and an informal dinner.
Also try these tasty braised variants:
To prepare the braised beef with pumpkin, start by preparing the vegetable broth. Once ready, clean the pumpkin: peel it, remove the seeds and inner fibers, then cut it first into slices and then into cubes . Peel the onion and slice it thinly ,
then put it in a pot, preferably cast iron, with the oil . Let it stew for 7-8 minutes and add the sirloin . Sear it on all sides over medium-high heat ,
then deglaze with the red wine . Once the alcohol has completely evaporated, add the pumpkin cubes and the vegetable broth .
Add the chopped rosemary , salt, a pinch of pepper, cover with a lid , and let cook for 2 and a half hours on low heat, occasionally turning the meat and pumpkin .
Once the meat is cooked and tender, remove it from the pot and place it on a plate , keeping it warm. At this point, set aside some pumpkin cubes for the final garnish and blend the rest with the cooking juices (14-15), until you obtain a cream.
Now slice the meat , lay a bed of pumpkin cream on a serving plate, place the meat on top, and garnish with the reserved pumpkin cubes. All that's left is to enjoy your braised beef with pumpkin, still warm!
Store the braised beef with pumpkin for up to 1-2 days in the refrigerator, in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
Depending on the quality of the pumpkin you choose and the degree of ripeness, it may be necessary to add it to the braise at a different time; otherwise, it might break down. If your pumpkin is soft, it is advisable to add it to the pot only after 1 hour of cooking.

