name:
Deviled Eggs
ingredients:
Eggs: 6
Tuna in oil: 3.2oz(90 g)
Anchovies: 0.9oz(25 g)- in oil
Black olives: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)- pitted
Capers in vinegar: ½tsp(2 g)- drained
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Sweet Paprika: 1pinch
Parsley: ½tsp(3 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Deviled eggs are a delightful appetizer or snack to offer to those who love spicy foods: these stuffed eggs can be a great introduction to a romantic and aphrodisiac dinner, but they will also be a big hit during an informal dinner with friends. Deviled eggs can also be used for a refreshment. Tempting and tasty, you can prepare them in a flash for the joy of your guests' taste buds!You don't necessarily have to make a dish that's too spicy: just adjust the amount of chili pepper to suit your guests' taste, creating an exciting and tasty appetizer without setting your guests' palates on fire.
Because they’re so easy, portable, and crowd-pleasing, deviled eggs have also become a beloved holiday appetizer—especially at Thanksgiving, where they make a perfect starter to complement the main turkey feast.
If you love eggs, also try our Gratinated Eggs !
To prepare deviled eggs, start with the preparation of boiled eggs. Take a pot and fill it with plenty of water. Place the eggs inside and bring to a boil, cooking them over medium heat for about 8 minutes. When the eggs are cooked, turn off the heat and remove them from the pot using a slotted spoon. Place them in a bowl and then put the bowl with the eggs under a stream of cold water to cool . While the eggs cool, proceed with preparing the spicy filling for your eggs. Take a blender and add the anchovies and tuna .
Then add the black olives , capers, and some parsley (keep a little aside to sprinkle over the eggs' surface) and the chili pepper cut into strips .
Finally, add the paprika to the blender . Turn on the blender and continue to blend the ingredients until you have obtained a creamy mixture . Then add the oil, which will make the mixture even creamier and help blend the ingredients better .
At this point, the eggs will have cooled. Proceed to peel them, cut them in half, and carefully remove the hard yolks with a teaspoon, taking care not to break the egg whites, which you will use later. Take the extracted yolks and add them to the mixture . Turn on the blender again and mix the egg and oil to create a homogeneous and lump-free mixture . Transfer the mixture into a piping bag , which you will use to fill the egg whites internally.
Fill the cavity of the egg white (from which you removed the yolk) with the piping bag . Repeat the operation for all the eggs. Finally, sprinkle with paprika and the remaining parsley that you have chopped. The deviled eggs are now ready to be served at the table !
Deviled eggs should be consumed as soon as they are ready. They can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
If you want to make the mixture lighter, you can add soaked, squeezed, and crumbled bread crumbs to the mixer along with the other ingredients. If you prefer, instead of the drained tuna oil, you can add olive oil; taste the cream before transferring it to the piping bag to fill the eggs, so you can enhance the spicy flavor to your liking. If you want to go easy on the spice, use only a small tip of fresh chili and, if necessary, add the rest later. Because they’re so easy, portable, and crowd-pleasing, deviled eggs have also become a beloved holiday appetizer—especially at Thanksgiving, where they make a perfect starter to complement the main turkey feast.

