name:
Ham and Cheese Omelette
ingredients:
Eggs: 4
Prosciutto cotto: 4.2oz(120 g)
Stracchino cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Milk: ½cup(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
The ham and cheese omelette is a simple main dish, perfect for when you have little time but still want something delicious. Unlike the classic omelette , this version uses a combination of eggs, cooked ham, and cheese, a timeless pairing that never gets old. The result is a golden omelette on the outside and creamy inside, and it's really versatile, suitable for many occasions: you can serve it for a family lunch or dinner, but it's also a solution for a Sunday brunch or a savory breakfast that recalls the French tradition. You can enrich it with a personal touch: a little chives for freshness, or a cheese with a more intense flavor, or a melting one, like provola. In any case, the ham and cheese omelette will always remain a quick, tasty dish ready to win you over with its simplicity.
If you are looking for other omelette recipes, take a look at:
To prepare the ham and cheese omelette, first crack the eggs into a bowl, add the parmesan , salt, pepper , and beat until you get a homogeneous mixture .
Gradually add the milk while continuing to stir, in the end, you should obtain a fairly liquid homogeneous mixture. Put a drizzle of oil in a non-stick pan , then pour the mixture and cook for about 10 minutes over medium heat.
At the end of cooking, add the cooked ham and stracchino on one half of the omelette.
At this point, fold the empty half over the filling . Your ham and cheese omelette is ready to be enjoyed !
The ham and cheese omelette should be consumed as soon as it's ready.
Besides stracchino, you can use mozzarella, scamorza, fontina, or smoked provola for a more intense flavor. If you prefer a different cold cut, you can replace cooked ham with speck, prosciutto, or bacon.

