name:
Pizza without yeast
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 5cups(670 g)- (W350)
Water: 2cups(455 g)
Fine salt: 2 ¼tsp(13 g)
Tomato purée: 1.4cups(340 g)
Pizza mozzarella cheese: 3cups(340 g)
Basil: 10leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Type 0 flour: (20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.7tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 18 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + resting time for the dough (10 min.)

instructions:
Do you think making a pizza without yeast is impossible? Get ready to change your mind! With our recipe, you won't have to wait long rising times to enjoy a great homemade pizza... with just water, flour, and salt, you'll create a dough ready to roll out and bake . The result will obviously be thinner compared to the classic sheet pan pizza , but the joy of biting into it will be the same!
Choose your favorite topping: tomato and mozzarella for those who never want to give up on Margherita , or maybe just oil and salt to get a sort of yeast-free focaccia to accompany with cold cuts and cheeses. Unleash your creativity and invite your friends... the yeast-free pizza will be ready in no time!
Discover other ways to make pizza without brewer's yeast:

To prepare the yeast-free pizza, pour the flour into a large bowl, then add the water and the salt . Mix everything with a wooden spoon .
Once the mixture is combined, continue to work it with your hands, first in the bowl and then on the work surface . You should obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough .
Divide the dough in half with a dough scraper , form balls and let them rest for 10 minutes, covered with a cloth .
After this time, take one ball at a time, keeping the other always covered, and dust it with a little flour on both sides . Roll out the dough with a rolling pin to form a rectangle the same size as the baking sheet . If the dough tends to retract, do not force it but wait a couple of minutes before rolling it out again with the rolling pin.
Transfer the dough to the well-oiled baking sheet and gently stretch it to cover the entire surface . Now season the tomato puree with salt and mix well. Spread the tomato over the entire surface of the dough , including the edges.
Drizzle with a little oil and bake the pizza in a preheated static oven at 480°F for 10 minutes, placing the baking sheet in contact with the lower part of the oven. In the meantime, cut the mozzarella into sticks . After 10 minutes, remove the baking sheet and transfer the pizza directly onto the rack.
Distribute the mozzarella over the surface and bake again at 480°F for another 8 minutes, this time in convection mode, positioning the rack in the middle of the oven . Once cooked, remove and garnish with fresh basil . Your yeast-free pizza is ready to be enjoyed .
The yeast-free pizza can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
You can freeze it after it has been cooked and cooled down.
It's important not to wait too long before rolling out the dough, otherwise, it will become harder to handle.
The ideal is to proceed immediately with cooking.

