name:
Apple Galette
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(220 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- cold
Natural plain yogurt: 2.1oz(60 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Apples: 2
Cream cheese: 0.67cup(150 g)
Sugar: 5tsp(20 g)
Cornstarch: 1.3tbsp(10 g)
Almond slices: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the dough in the fridge (1 h)

instructions:
The apple galette is a rustic and genuine dessert from the French tradition. Somewhere between an apple pie and a rustic apple cake , this dessert is distinguished by its simplicity: a shell of crumbly yogurt shortcrust pastry that embraces a soft filling enriched with fresh cheese , where the apples are the absolute protagonists.
It is a preparation that does not need perfection, in fact, its charm lies precisely in the irregular appearance and the natural way in which the edges of the dough enclose the fruit. The addition of almonds on the surface gives a crunchy note that makes it even more inviting.
Perfect for ending a family meal or sharing with friends, the apple galette is also great for a hearty breakfast! On any occasion you wish to serve it, it will be able to win over both young and old with its simple goodness.
If you are looking for other apple desserts, also try:
To prepare the apple galette, first peel the apples and slice them about 1/4 inch thick . Immerse them in water and let them rest in the refrigerator.
Meanwhile, sift the flour into a bowl , then add the sugar and a pinch of salt .
Add the cold butter and knead with your hands to incorporate it , then pour in the yogurt .
Finally, add an egg yolk and continue working first in the bowl and then on the work surface ; you should obtain a smooth and non-sticky dough. Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for an hour.
In the meantime, prepare the filling: in a bowl combine the fresh cheese, sugar , and 1 tsp of cornstarch . Mix until you obtain a homogeneous mixture .
After the resting time, roll out the dough between 2 sheets of parchment paper until you get a disc about 1/4 inch thick. Spread the cheese cream on the surface , leaving about 3/4 inch free from the edge. Sprinkle with the remaining cornstarch .
Arrange the apple slices on the cheese cream , then fold the edge of the pastry and brush it with beaten egg yolk .
Decorate the edge with sliced almonds and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40 minutes on the middle rack, then move the tray to the lower rack and continue baking for another 10 minutes . Once golden, take out and let your apple galette cool before enjoying it !
The apple galette can be stored at room temperature, under a glass dome or well covered, for about 2 days.
To make your galette even more delicious, try spreading a layer of jam or hazelnut cream on the base before arranging the fruit.
Instead of apples, you can choose the seasonal fruit you prefer, such as pears, peaches, or plums, to create new variations depending on the time of year.
Did you know that galette also exists in a savory version? Don't miss the typical recipe of the Complete Breton Galette or the tasty Galette with potatoes and cheese !

