name:
Gluten-Free Gnocchi
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Potato starch: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the dough (at least 30 min.)

instructions:
Do you love kneading by hand? With gluten-free gnocchi you can finally prepare these delicious delights in a gluten-free version! Compared to classic potato gnocchi , this variant uses potato starch instead of flour, and for this reason, the dough needs to be worked more.
Gluten-free gnocchi will be soft and light, perfect to be enriched with any sauce. A few examples? Butter and sage, tomato and basil, four cheeses... or an irresistible classic: gluten-free gnocchi alla Sorrentina !
Discover these gluten-free gnocchi variations as well:
To prepare the gluten-free gnocchi, first boil the red potatoes in a pot starting with plenty of cold water. Cook for about 40 minutes from boiling or until the fork easily pierces the center . Mash the potatoes while they are still hot (the skin will remain inside the potato masher) , then add the potato starch .
Add the salt and plenty of nutmeg . Knead by hand to mix the ingredients .
Transfer the mixture onto the work surface and continue to work until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough . Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest for at least 30 minutes. After the resting time, divide the dough into smaller portions and roll them out to form logs about 3/4 inch thick .
Cut the logs into pieces of about 1 inch , then gently roll them on the gnocchi board and place them on a tray with parchment paper . Your gluten-free gnocchi are ready to be cooked and dressed as you like!
It is recommended to prepare and consume the gluten-free gnocchi on the same day.
You can keep them in the fridge, covered, to prevent them from drying out too much.
To make your gluten-free gnocchi special, add a pinch of saffron or turmeric to flavor the gnocchi.
Instead of potato starch, you can use rice starch.
Gluten-free gnocchi are cooked in salted boiling water just until they float to the surface, like traditional ones.

