name:
Oven-Baked Potato Wedges with Bacon
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Smoked pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Vegetable broth: ⅔cup(150 ml)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(50 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The oven-baked potato wedges with bacon and rosemary are a great and hearty side dish to pair with stewed meat, meat or fish roasts, or with grilled or broiled steaks, a richer alternative to classic baked potatoes . If you're looking for a tasty side, this is the recipe for you: it's very simple to make; just cut the potatoes into wedges, season with olive oil and herbs, and then flavor with diced bacon or, if you prefer, speck.
To prepare the oven-baked potato wedges with bacon, start by gathering the rosemary needles and thyme leaves that will be used to flavor the dish. Take the slice of bacon and cut it into cubes . Separately, wash and peel the potatoes .
First cut them in half lengthwise and then into wedges . Transfer the potato wedges into a baking dish that can comfortably hold them, season with a drizzle of olive oil , add the diced bacon ,
the rosemary and also the thyme , finally salt and pepper. Drizzle the potatoes with vegetable broth , stir them with a wooden spoon to flavor and then bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 55 minutes and then grill at 460°F (or the maximum temperature your oven allows) for another 5 minutes. Once cooked, your oven-baked potato wedges with bacon will be golden and crispy, take them out of the oven , let them cool slightly and enjoy them right away!
Consume the oven-baked potato wedges with bacon immediately; if any are left over, store them in the refrigerator for no more than one day. Freezing is not recommended.
The oven-baked potato wedges with bacon are a simple yet very tasty dish; if you don't like bacon, you can use speck or, if you want to add a distinct note to the dish, try flavoring them with a teaspoon of paprika; their taste will surprise you!

