name:
Gluten-free baked pasta
ingredients:
Gluten-free ridged sedanini pasta: 2.8cups(350 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- sweet
Emmentaler cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 4.4oz(125 g)- (to be grated)
Gluten-free smoked pancetta: 7.1oz(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Gluten free cornstarch: 0.4cup(50 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Cooking baked pasta is a moment of joy for the whole family! Its succulent and indulgent look, the mix of ingredients that make it up, there is no doubt: it's pure pleasure! And today we extend the joyful moment to everyone with our gluten-free baked pasta. In this amazing version where wheat derivatives are absent, we bake a delicious pasta pasticciata suitable for those who are intolerant or allergic to gluten. We have also prepared the gluten-free béchamel , a recipe perfected just for these moments of festive sharing. Instead of sauce, we opted for a white version with a balanced mix of cheeses: this way, your gluten-free baked pasta will be truly unforgettable. Ready to try it?
To prepare the gluten-free baked pasta, let's start with the gluten-free béchamel: heat the milk in a saucepan . Meanwhile, in another pot, melt the butter. As soon as it is melted, turn off the heat and add the cornstarch all at once . Stir well and then turn the burner back on to low heat .
Pour a little milk to temper it, always using the whisk, then pour it all in and increase the heat . Continue to cook, stirring constantly, for 4-5 minutes or until the sauce is creamy enough . Place the cream in a bowl and set aside .
In the meantime, cut the cheeses into small pieces and then brown the pancetta in a non-stick pan without adding fats . Let the cubes brown and then set aside .
Now it's time to cook the gluten-free pasta, plunge it into boiling, salted water . When it's al dente, drain it, keeping a cup of water aside, and return to the pot. Add the gluten-free béchamel , the grated Grana Padano PDO (keeping 7-8 tablespoons aside) ,
the cheese pieces and the browned pancetta . Add a pinch of pepper and a little of the reserved water .
Give it a good stir . Transfer everything into a 10x12 inch baking dish, sprinkle with the grated cheese set aside , and bake your gluten-free baked pasta in the oven, already preheated to 400°F for about 20 minutes before serving .
The gluten-free baked pasta can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days. You can also freeze it after it's cooked if needed.
A few variations? Use speck instead of smoked pancetta for a more intense flavor or sweet pancetta for a milder taste; vary the cheeses according to your taste or based on what you have in the fridge. How about mozzarella, smoked provola, and asiago?

