name:
Pasta with Radicchio, Leeks, and Bacon
ingredients:
Whole wheat Spaghetti pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Radicchio: 6cups(280 g)-
Leeks: 8.1oz(230 g)
Sweet Pancetta: 2.5oz(70 g)
Water: 0.67cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(50 g)
Peeled almonds: 2tbsp(25 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.25oz(35 g)- to grate
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste- ground black
Oregano: to taste- fresh
Almond slices: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The radicchio, with its crunchy texture and pleasantly bitter flavor, is very versatile in the kitchen: think risottos and lasagnas, not to mention savory pies and crepes. Today our choice fell on a delicious main course: pasta with radicchio, leeks, and bacon... a trio to lick your chops! The taste of radicchio is enhanced by the savory note of the bacon while the base of the leek, transformed into a soft and sweet cream, will provide a pleasant contrast. Are you ready to twirl up a nice forkful of whole wheat spaghetti? We are sure that with pasta with radicchio, leeks, and bacon, you have found a new way to appreciate this ingredient even more!
Looking for more ideas for tasty recipes with radicchio? Also try:
To prepare pasta with radicchio, leeks, and bacon, start by trimming the leek to remove the root and the green part . Cut the leek lengthwise and remove the first 2-3 leaves . If you notice any soil residue, rinse the leeks; otherwise, proceed by slicing them into rounds a few millimeters thick .
In a pan, pour 1 tbsp of olive oil, then add the leek and sauté for 2-3 minutes on high heat, stirring often to avoid burning. Adjust with salt and pepper, pour in the water , and let cook with the lid on low heat for 15-20 minutes or until the leeks are wilted .
At the end of cooking, transfer the cooked leek to a mixer along with the almonds , then add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP and 2 tbsps of olive oil . Blend and set the mixture aside in a bowl .
Put a pot of boiling salted water on the stove: it will be used to cook the pasta. In the meantime, cut the bacon into strips about a quarter inch thick . Set aside and deal with the radicchio: remove the outer leaves , then cut it in half and remove the internal core by making two oblique cuts .
Finely chop the radicchio and rinse it under running water , then drain well. At this point, move to the stove and let a clove of garlic infuse in 2 tbsps of olive oil .
Add the bacon and let it brown for 1-2 minutes on high flame, being careful not to burn it . Also add the radicchio .
Let it wilt for about ten minutes, stirring occasionally, then adjust with salt and pepper and turn off the heat . Boil the spaghetti in salted boiling water . In a separate pan, without turning on the heat, pour the leek cream and dilute with 1-2 ladles of pasta cooking water .
Stir to obtain a liquid cream, into which you will directly drain the al dente cooked spaghetti . Also add the radicchio sautéed with bacon and toss everything over high heat for a minute . Plate the pasta with radicchio, leeks, and bacon and finish with fresh oregano leaves, almond slivers, a grind of pepper, and a drizzle of raw oil !
It is recommended to consume the pasta with radicchio, leeks, and bacon immediately and not to prepare the sauce too far in advance as it could take on a very dark and unappetizing color.
If you want to enrich the preparation, just sprinkle the dish with a little grated cheese like Parmigiano or Pecorino, for an extra savory note.
If you want to try other variations, instead of using bacon, try substituting it with speck !

