name:
Vegetarian Baked Pasta
ingredients:
Tortiglioni pasta: 12oz(340 g)
Cauliflower: 2cups(200 g)
Broccoli: 2 ½cups(200 g)
Carrots: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Spinach: 6.7cups(200 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: ¼cup(50 g)- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(200 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
What is more comforting than a nice baked pasta ? Whether it's classic, white or pasticciata , it always pleases the whole family and with this recipe it will probably do so even more... vegetarian baked pasta! A version without béchamel, lighter yet just as enveloping thanks to the ricotta cream that combines tortiglioni, spinach, carrots, broccoli, and cauliflower in a truly appetizing embrace. Even the most reluctant won't be able to say no to vegetables when presented in such a tasty and colorful way! We bet that vegetarian baked pasta will become your new ace up your sleeve? And if you're looking for other meat-free alternatives, also try the Baked Pasta with Gorgonzola Gratin or Sorrentina style !
To prepare the vegetarian baked pasta, first clean and cut the vegetables: divide both the cauliflower and the broccoli into florets and dice the carrots .
Finally, remove the longer stems from the spinach leaves . Bring a pot of lightly salted water to a boil, then add the carrots, cauliflower , and broccoli .
After a few minutes, add the pasta and cook for the time indicated on the package. Meanwhile, prepare the ricotta cream: in a bowl, combine the ricotta and grated Grana Padano , then pour in the cream .
Season with salt, pepper , and thyme leaves , then mix well .
When the pasta is almost ready, add the spinach to the pot . Once the cooking time is complete, drain both the pasta and the vegetables and transfer them to a baking dish . Add the ricotta cream and mix well.
Sprinkle the surface with grated Grana , drizzle with olive oil , and bake in a preheated fan oven at 350°F for about 25 minutes, then turn on the grill for another 5 minutes. Once cooked, your vegetarian baked pasta is ready to be served hot !
The vegetarian baked pasta can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
You can make a different vegetarian baked pasta each time by replacing the vegetables with those in season, for example, pumpkin and mushrooms or eggplants and zucchinis: just boil or sauté them in a pan for a few minutes! Use sheep's ricotta for a stronger flavor. The stems of the broccoli and cauliflower will be perfect for making a vegetable broth!
If you follow a vegetarian diet that, in addition to meat and fish, excludes cheeses made with animal rennet, you can replace the ingredient with a similar cheese made with vegetable rennet.

