name:
Stuffed Portobello Mushrooms
ingredients:
Portobello mushrooms: 8.3cups(600 g)
Red potatoes: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Salami paste: 4.6oz(130 g)
Pecorino cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- to be grated
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 45 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Perhaps not everyone knows that portobello mushrooms are just a particularly grown variety of champignon! Thanks to their firm and meaty texture and generous size, they are perfect for creating original sandwiches, like our fabulous Portobello burger , and just like champignon , they are ideal for stuffing... that's why today we are offering you the recipe for stuffed portobello mushrooms! A rustic and flavorful appetizer made with simple and tasty ingredients: potatoes, sausage, Pecorino cheese, and rosemary. If you've never cooked this majestic variety of mushroom, we recommend starting with an easy and impressive dish like stuffed portobello mushrooms, then experimenting with new and delicious preparations... try our Fregola with portobello mushrooms too!
And if you love mushrooms, try our mushrooms in a skillet , an easy side dish to make!
These stuffed portobello mushrooms also make a fantastic Thanksgiving appetizer —they're rich, savory, and a great option to round out your festive menu!
To prepare the stuffed portobello mushrooms, first put the potatoes in a saucepan with plenty of cold water and boil them until you can easily pierce them with a fork. In the meantime, clean the mushrooms by trimming the edges of the caps with a knife to remove any damaged parts and then gently hollow them out with a melon baller .
Chop the inside of the mushrooms and set it aside along with the caps. Heat the oil in a pan, add the sausage paste and brown it briefly, breaking it up with a wooden spoon, then add the rosemary .
and the chopped mushrooms ; salt and pepper and cook over medium heat for about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally .
When the potatoes are cooked, mash them in a bowl with a potato masher , then add the mushroom and sausage mixture , adjust salt if necessary, and mix well .
Place the mushroom caps on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and drizzle them with a little oil and a pinch of salt . Fill the mushrooms with the potato filling .
and sprinkle the surface with grated Pecorino cheese (16-17), then add a final grind of pepper. Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 25 minutes, then turn on the grill and bake for another 5 minutes. Your stuffed portobello mushrooms are ready to be enjoyed !
Stuffed portobello mushrooms can be refrigerated for up to one day.
You can replace the sausage paste with crumbled sausage or, for a vegetarian version, with zucchini, tomatoes, or red onion. If you desire a more intense aroma, try flavoring the potatoes with a pinch of saffron powder!

