name:
Autumn Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.67cups(320 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 6cups(450 g)
Pancetta tesa: 5.3oz(150 g)
Leeks: 1.4oz(40 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Cooking risotto is truly an act of love, for yourself and for those you invite to your home. The autumn risotto is a true comfort food among the autumn recipes, a simple first course that doesn't have any less appeal compared to the classic and very creamy mushroom risotto . If you've tried the variant with porcini mushrooms in the Porcini and Saffron Risotto and if, like us, you have a passion for pumpkin and sausage risotto , you will love this autumn version that combines bacon with the precious fruits of this season: mushrooms. The autumn risotto is enveloping, flavorful, and creamy; we couldn't find better adjectives to describe this goodness. In fact, try it to believe it and let us know!
If you love rustic flavors, don't miss the Risotto alla paesana !
To prepare the autumn risotto, start by putting a pot with vegetable broth on the heat, keep it warm. Meanwhile, slice the cleaned leek into thin rounds . Then cut the cleaned champignon mushrooms, if you want to see how we explain it in our cooking school , and chop them into coarse cubes . Finally, remove the rind from the pancetta
and cut it into strips about 0.4 inches thick . Move to the stove. In a saucepan, add a swirl of oil and the leek: cook over low heat for a few minutes . Add the pancetta and cook it at the same temperature for a couple of minutes, stirring frequently, this way the fat will melt .
It's time to add the mushrooms to the saucepan, stir, and let them soften for 7-8 minutes . Add the rice and mix well : toast it for a few minutes until it becomes transparent. Then proceed to cook the risotto by adding the hot broth one ladleful at a time as it dries out .
Remember to stir occasionally but not excessively; broth, pancetta, and cheese, at the end of cooking, are all salty ingredients, so choose whether to add more salt, perhaps paying attention to the amount . At the end of cooking, turn off the heat and add the butter and grated cheese while stirring.
Fragrance with a bit of chopped parsley , give it one last stir , and your autumn risotto is ready to be served .
Once the autumn risotto is ready, it is advisable to consume it immediately; you can store it in the fridge, well covered, for a couple of days.
You can use mushrooms of your choice like fresh porcini or a nice mix.
Replace bacon with speck or sausage.

