name:
Potato, Cheese, and Bacon Bites
ingredients:
New potatoes: 12
Smoked pancetta: 24- slices
Emmentaler cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Potato, cheese, and bacon bites are a tasty, delightful, and very flavorful snack that prepares quickly, making them ideal for unexpected guests. The potatoes to use are new potatoes, small and sweet, which are simply wrapped in a slice of cheese, like Emmental, processed cheese slices or another sliced cheese, and then covered with bacon. It will be hard to resist the goodness of these bites: one leads to another!
To prepare the potato, cheese, and bacon bites, first peel the new potatoes . Then place them in a pot full of lightly salted water and boil them for about 20 minutes . You can check for doneness by inserting a knife or a toothpick; if the potato slides off easily, it means it is cooked.
Once cooked, drain the potatoes and let them cool. Meanwhile, pour some oil into a baking dish and use a brush to grease the entire surface .
As soon as the potatoes are cold, take one and wrap a slice of cheese around it . Then take one of the bacon slices and use it to secure the cheese . Place another slice of bacon along the other side to form a cross .
At this point, place the bite in the baking pan and continue in the same way with the others . Cook in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 20 minutes, then take out and serve your potato, cheese, and bacon bites while still hot!
It is recommended to consume the potato bites just after preparation; alternatively, they can be stored for a maximum of 1 day in the refrigerator, sealed in an airtight container.
If you don't like Emmental, you can use any other cheese that allows for easily "rollable" slices, such as processed cheese slices or scamorza, smoked or not. To further reduce preparation time, you can use pre-boiled new potatoes, which are vacuum-packed and available at the supermarket. In any case, the result will be guaranteed.
You can accompany the potato bites with some creme fraiche to add a touch of acidity!

