name:
Baked Pears
ingredients:
Abate Fetel pears: 2- (about 16.5 oz)
Gorgonzola cheese: 6oz(170 g)- sweet
Wildflower honey: 2tbsp(40 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ⅓cup(80 g)
Walnut kernels: ⅓cup(50 g)
Chives: to taste- chopped
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Pears can become a great Pear and Cinnamon Jam or an excellent dessert, like these amaretto or red wine pears. Pears and cheese can be a unique dessert or a tasty appetizer: the baked pears will delight you with a stuffing of gorgonzola, honey, and walnuts. Easy and quick to make, these stuffed baked pears are presented in their most elegant form. The secret of the recipe is in the ingredients: choose quality products to best enhance their fragrances and aromas!
Pears and gorgonzola represent a combination of bold and captivating flavors; this sweet and savory liaison is perfect for enveloping creamy risottos or enhancing tasty fillings of fresh pasta. Discover also our cooked pears, a delicious sweet variant!
To make the baked pears with gorgonzola and honey, first wash and dry the fruits. Cut the pears in half lengthwise and remove the core and a small portion of the flesh to create a "boat" effect. Remove a small part from the skin side to lay them more comfortably on the baking tray .
Place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and season with a drizzle of olive oil , salt, and pepper . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 10 minutes or until sufficiently soft. Once cooked, remove from the oven and let them cool slightly .
Prepare the filling: in a bowl, add the gorgonzola, cream , salt, and pepper , and blend with an immersion blender until you have a smooth cream.
Add the chopped chives , honey , and mix with a spoon to emulsify .
Stuff the cooked pears with the cream . Add the coarsely chopped walnuts on top and serve your baked pears with gorgonzola and honey immediately.
It is recommended to consume the baked pears with gorgonzola and honey immediately.
To delicately flavor the cheese cream, you can also use thyme. As an alternative to walnuts, you can use hazelnut and pistachio crumbs or sliced almonds.

