name:
Tart with cream, melon, and raspberries
ingredients:
Flour: 280- type 1
Butter: 6oz(170 g)- cold
Eggs: 2.1oz(60 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Lemon peel: to taste
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: 0.375cup(75 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Cornstarch: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Egg yolks: 3tbsp(45 g)
Sugar: 5tsp(20 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.25oz(6 g)
Melon: 2lbs(900 g)
Raspberries: 0.3cup(40 g)
Mint: 6leaves
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Note + the cooling time for the preparations: about 2 and a half hours

instructions:
Are you craving a fresh, easy, and scenic summer dessert? The tart with cream, melon and raspberries is the perfect dessert to serve on hot days: delicious, fragrant, and rich in seasonal fruit, it combines elegance and simplicity in an irresistible way. The crumbly shortcrust pastry base welcomes a velvety homemade vanilla pastry cream , scented with vanilla beans, perfect for enhancing the sweetness of the melon.
On top, there is a scenic layer of melon balls, fresh raspberries, and mint, adding a touch of freshness and color. This summer tart with fresh fruit is ideal for concluding outdoor lunches and dinners, also perfect for parties, buffets, and birthdays. Thanks to its elegant appearance and refined taste, it will amaze everyone at the first bite.
Discover more fruit tart recipes here:

To prepare the tart with cream, melon and raspberries, start with the shortcrust: in a large bowl, pour the flour, cubed butter , and a pinch of salt . Add the lemon zest for flavor .
Work the ingredients with your hands until you get a sandy dough. Add the sugar and mix for a few more seconds. Add the whole egg .
Work until fully absorbed . Transfer the dough onto the work surface, form a rectangle, and lightly flatten it with your fingers (to cool it faster) and wrap it with plastic wrap . Place the shortcrust in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour. Meanwhile, prepare the pastry cream: in a saucepan, combine the egg yolks and sugar .
Flavor with vanilla extract and work with a spatula until you get a homogeneous mixture. Add cornstarch to the mixture and mix until fully absorbed .
Pour the milk into a saucepan with lemon zest and bring to a boil . Pour a little boiling milk over the egg mixture and temper it .
Add all the milk, mix, and return to the heat over medium flame . Stir with a whisk until you get a thick and smooth cream . Transfer the cream to a large baking dish , let it cool, then cover with cling film in contact. Leave to rest in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour.
Take the shortcrust, lightly flour the work surface, and roll it out with a rolling pin . Roll the shortcrust around the rolling pin and unroll it onto a 9-inch tart pan . Press to adhere the edges and the bottom, cut off the excess dough with a knife .
Gently prick the base with a fork . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 35/40 minutes until uniformly golden. Remove from the oven and let cool . Start the filling: cut the melon in half .
Remove the seeds and, using a melon baller, scoop about 52/55 spheres of 3/4 inch to completely cover the cake.
Soak the gelatin in 2 tbsp of cold water. Take the remaining melon pulp and put it in the mixer , blend and add the sugar . Give another quick blend to mix.
Strain the sauce obtained through a sieve . Pour 3 tablespoons of melon sauce into a saucepan, add the soaked gelatin , heat until completely dissolved. Pour the dissolved gelatin into the rest of the sauce and mix vigorously.
Let the melon gelée cool slightly by pouring it into a bowl . Retrieve the pastry cream and transfer it into a piping bag without a nozzle . Pour the melon gelée into the cooled shortcrust shell and let it rest in the refrigerator for about 20/30 minutes.
Take the shortcrust base with the gelée now set and fill with the pastry cream . Decorate the tart with melon spheres , halved raspberries, and fresh mint leaves. Finish with a little powdered sugar on the edge .
We recommend consuming the tart with cream, melon, and raspberries on the same day.
Alternatively, you can use seasonal blueberries instead of raspberries.

