name:
Chestnut pudding
ingredients:
Chestnuts: 6 ½cups(1 kg)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.1cups(260 g)
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Dark chocolate: 1.1oz(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Who can resist the sweet temptation of a refined and enveloping pudding? Whatever the main ingredient it is made with, it is a dessert that pleases everyone with its goodness, perfect for delighting your guests at the end of a meal. We propose you make a truly original one: don't be fooled by the color, it's not just a chocolate pudding but... a chestnut pudding! Yes, that's right: the queens of autumn are the undisputed protagonists of this delightful spoon dessert, in a creamy puree that encapsulates all the flavor of autumn, with a decisive note of taste given by dark chocolate. All that's left is to get some molds and bring these delights to life but... don't reveal the secret of such goodness to your friends right away, otherwise, what's the fun? And if you love chestnut-based desserts, also try this Chestnut Cake ! If instead, you're looking for another fruit-based pudding, try this persimmon and cocoa !
To prepare the chestnut pudding, first of all, boil the chestnuts in a pot with a lid for about 30 minutes. Once this time has passed, do the toothpick test: prick them to check if they're cooked, then drain them and keep them aside in a bowl covered ; in this way, the steam will soften the outer shell, and you can peel them more easily.
Once lukewarm, peel them, removing also the skin . After cleaning them all, pour the chestnuts into a pot , add the milk , and cook over moderate heat for at least an hour.
Stir occasionally until they become soft and the mixture is dense and thick . Then transfer them to a food mill and pass them until reduced to a puree, to be collected in a small bowl .
Soak the gelatin in cold water for at least 10 minutes , then chop the dark chocolate , transfer the chestnut puree back into a pan, add the fresh cream and sugar , and cook over low heat.
Add the chopped dark chocolate , stir to melt it, then blend the mixture with an immersion blender until you get a smooth and creamy consistency. Then squeeze the gelatin sheets and add them to the mixture
and stir with the whisk until they have completely dissolved , then turn off the heat. Fill your molds , let them cool at room temperature, and then put them in the fridge for about 2 hours. When serving the puddings, dip them in boiling water for a few seconds so that it's easier to remove them from the mold.
Then turn them over onto a serving plate to unmold them . Use a vegetable peeler to grate the dark chocolate over the puddings to decorate with curls and your chestnut puddings are ready to be enjoyed!
You can store your chestnut pudding in the fridge for 3-4 days, covered with plastic wrap.
Freezing is not recommended as it may alter the consistency of the pudding.
If you want to add an aromatic note to your pudding, you can use the seeds from a vanilla bean or some orange zest.

