name:
Risotto with butter, anchovies, and crunchy peppers
ingredients:
Vialone nano rice: 1 ⅔cup(320 g)
Butter: 1.75oz(50 g)
Anchovies in oil: 1.8oz(50 g)- from the Cantabrian Sea (drained)
Prosecco: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Water: to taste- to cook the risotto
Crushed red pepper: 12tsp(60 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste- for frying
Anchovies in oil: 12- from the Cantabrian Sea
Lemon peel: 2
Chervil: to taste- sprouts

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
For the revisited great classics section, today we present you with a timeless combination, that of butter and anchovies, in a surprising risotto version: risotto with butter, anchovies, and crunchy peppers! A first course creamy and enveloping, where the rich sweetness of the butter marries the savoriness of the prized Cantabrian anchovies, and a generous sprinkle of powdered crunchy peppers, with intense and smoky notes, acts as a counterpoint to the burst of freshness from the lemon zest. A very simple dish to make but with a great effect, thanks to the refined pairing and contemporary plating aesthetics. Fine dining style right at your table, to make dinners with your most gourmet friends... or the most romantic tête-à-tête invitations special! With this risotto with butter, anchovies, and crunchy peppers, you'll win over the hearts - and palates - of the most demanding, word of GialloZafferano!
Discover other delicious recipes with crunchy peppers:
To prepare the risotto with butter, anchovies, and crunchy peppers, start with the latter. Bring the seed oil to 355°F, immerse the peppers and fry them for a few seconds . Drain them well on straw paper and once dry put them in the mixer
Operate the blades and blend to obtain a powder . Set aside and take care of the risotto: in a saucepan, pour the anchovies and a bit of oil .
Let them melt at a gentle temperature, stirring with a wooden spoon , then add the rice , mix well and toast it .
Deglaze with a bit of Prosecco and once the alcohol scent has evaporated, start wetting the rice with hot salted water . Continue to add a little at a time until the rice is cooked. Finally, with the heat off, stir in the cold fridge butter .
Add the parmesan as well and mix well . Plate the rice and distribute pieces of anchovies on the surface .
Complete with the crunchy pepper powder , lemon zest , and chervil sprouts . Your risotto with butter, anchovies, and crunchy peppers is ready to be enjoyed!
The risotto with butter, anchovies, and crunchy peppers is ideal when consumed immediately; however, if there's any leftover, it can be stored in the fridge for a maximum of 2 days; freezing is not recommended.
With the crunchy pepper powder, you can enhance many different dishes: try a pinch on a burrata bruschetta, grilled vegetables, or on simple buttered linguine, it will transform any recipe!

