name:
Malloreddus with vegetables, sausage and saffron
ingredients:
Gnocchetti Sardi pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Saffron: (0.3 g)- 2 sachets of 150 mg each
Sausage: 0.55lb(250 g)
Carrots: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Zucchini: 1cup(150 g)
Potatoes: 0.33lb(150 g)
Peas: ⅔cup(100 g)
Yellow onions: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The malloreddus are ridged dumplings typical of Sardinia, ideal for collecting the sauce and capturing every nuance of flavor... the perfect shape for the recipe we present here: malloreddus with vegetables, sausage, and saffron. A rich and colorful first course, enhanced by the golden hue of saffron, which adds its unmistakable flavor and aroma. The bold taste of sausage pairs with the freshness of diced carrots, zucchini, peas, and potatoes, quickly cooked to maintain a firm and crunchy texture. Hearty and satisfying for the palate, malloreddus with vegetables, sausage, and saffron are prepared in just a few steps and will win you over at the first taste!
If you are looking for other first courses with saffron, here are a few ideas:

To prepare malloreddus with vegetables, sausage, and saffron, first peel and finely chop the onion . Cut the zucchini and carrots into cubes of about 1/4 inch .
Peel the potatoes and cut them into 1/4 inch cubes as well . Remove the sausage casing .
Crumble the sausage with your hands , place it in a non-stick pan , and brown for a few minutes over medium-high heat . Transfer the sausage to a bowl and set aside.
In the same pan, pour in the oil, then add the onion, carrots , and zucchini . Season with salt and cook over medium-high heat for about 5 minutes.
Meanwhile, boil the potatoes in water for 5 minutes . Add the peas and potatoes to the pan.
Also, add the sausage and cook over high heat for a few minutes. Meanwhile, cook the malloreddus in plenty of salted boiling water and dissolve the saffron in a small bowl with some warm water .
Drain the malloreddus 2 minutes before the end of the cooking time and add them directly to the pan . Add 2 ladles of pasta cooking water and the saffron .
Stir and finish cooking the pasta. Turn off the heat and toss with the oil , then adjust salt if necessary. The malloreddus with vegetables, sausage, and saffron are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the malloreddus with vegetables, sausage, and saffron as soon as they are ready. If any are left over, you can store them in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in an airtight container.
For a vegetarian version, you can omit the sausage and add other seasonal vegetables.
Don't miss the classic recipe for malloreddus alla campidanese, dressed with a flavorful sausage and saffron sauce!

