name:
Saffron risotto with scallops and agretti
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Scallops: 8
Friar's beard (agretti): 5.5oz(150 g)
Saffron: 0.1tsp(0.3 g)- (2 sachets of 0.15 g each)
Garlic: 4cloves
Marjoram: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)- cold

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Loved by young and old alike, saffron risotto is an ideal base to personalize with different ingredients, creating delicious and tasty variations... like saffron risotto with scallops and agretti, for example! A delightful first course to offer during the spring months when agretti, also known as monk's beard, are in season. Their delicate and slightly tangy flavor pairs perfectly with the sweetness of scallops, prized sea mollusks with tender and juicy flesh. The main star, however, is always the saffron. A touch of magic that adds color, aroma, and flavor to every preparation! Curious to try our saffron risotto with scallops and agretti?
Discover other variants of saffron risotto as well:

To prepare saffron risotto with scallops and agretti, first separate the coral from the scallops and rinse everything well under running water. Place the scallops and corals in a baking dish, then add a drizzle of oil and the sprigs of marjoram .
Season with salt and pepper , then cover with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator while you proceed with the recipe . How to Clean and Cook Agretti remove the hard part and rinse them under running water.
Bring a pot of water to a boil and blanch the agretti for about 2 minutes . Meanwhile, pour a drizzle of oil into a pan and let it infuse with 2 cloves of garlic and a few sprigs of marjoram .
Now drain the agretti (save the cooking water which you will use to cook the risotto) and add them to the pan , then sauté over high heat for 3-4 minutes . Transfer the agretti to a bowl and set aside the pan that you will use to cook the scallops.
At this point, prepare the risotto: pour the rice into a saucepan and toast it dry for 3-4 minutes, then season with salt . Moisten the rice with the cooking water from the agretti, adding it one ladle at a time as it is absorbed .
Meanwhile, take the pan in which you cooked the agretti and heat a drizzle of oil with 2 cloves of garlic , then place the scallops and sear them over high heat on both sides for a total of 3-4 minutes .
When there are about 5 minutes left until the rice is done, pour the saffron into a small bowl with a little warm agretti cooking water and stir to dissolve it . Add the dissolved saffron to the rice in the saucepan .
Mix well and finish cooking the risotto. Once ready, turn off the heat and stir in a drizzle of oil and the cold butter .
Finally, add the agretti and stir again to combine the risotto .
Plate the risotto and top with the seared scallops . Your saffron risotto with scallops and agretti is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the saffron risotto with scallops and agretti immediately. If necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
If agretti are not in season, you can omit them and cook the saffron risotto with vegetable broth.
If you enjoyed this combination, don't miss the recipe for scallops with saffron sauce!

