name:
Summer couscous with anchovies and primosale
ingredients:
Couscous: 1 ¾cup(320 g)
Anchovies: 12fillets- marinated, from the Cantabrian Sea
Eggplant: 7oz(200 g)- (to clean)
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(200 g)- (to clean)
Cherry tomatoes: 1cup(150 g)
Carrots: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to be cleaned)
Primosale cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Water: 2.7cups(640 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Mint: 0.7oz(20 g)
Ice: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
The summer couscous with anchovies and primosale is a tasty and fragrant variant of the classic couscous with vegetables , perfect to enjoy outdoors during the warm season! Cherry tomatoes, zucchini, carrots, and grilled eggplants are added to the cubes of Homemade Primosale , a fresh slightly aged cheese, and to the anchovies marinated with citrus oil, which give this versatile first course a unique flavor and a pleasant citrus note. The mint oil, finally, adds a gourmet touch and an intoxicating aroma. Easy to prepare in advance too, the summer couscous with anchovies and primosale will make a difference during your lunch break at the office, on a picnic, or under the beach umbrella!
Also try these summer couscous recipes:
To prepare the summer couscous with marinated anchovies and primosale, start with the mint-flavored oil: blanch the mint leaves for a few seconds in boiling water , then drain in ice water . When it is well chilled, squeeze the mint and transfer it to a jar.
Add a couple of tablespoons of iced water and the oil , then blend with an immersion blender .
Once you have obtained a homogeneous mixture , strain it through a fine-mesh sieve to make it smoother and set aside .
Move on to the vegetables: trim and peel the carrots, then slice them thinly with a mandoline . Trim the zucchini and do the same , then slice the eggplants thinly with a knife .
Heat a grill well and grill the eggplant slices , zucchini , and carrot on both sides. Set aside and let them cool slightly.
In the meantime, focus on the couscous: bring the water to a boil, salt it, and pour it into a bowl where you have placed the couscous . Stir and cover with a lid .
After a few minutes, the couscous will have absorbed all the water, so season with a drizzle of oil and fluff the grains well with a fork . Let it cool slightly and meanwhile cut the grilled vegetables into strips .
Also divide the cherry tomatoes into quarters . Combine the vegetables in a bowl and season with salt and oil .
Now add the vegetable mix to the couscous , then add the primosale broken into pieces with your hands and mix everything well .
Plate and complete with 3 fillets of anchovies marinated with citrus oil and the mint oil . Your summer couscous with marinated anchovies and primosale is ready to be enjoyed !
The summer couscous with anchovies and primosale can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, in an airtight container.
The mint oil can be stored in the refrigerator for one day or can be frozen.
You can enrich the summer couscous with anchovies and primosale with your favorite seasonal vegetables!

