name:
Pasta primavera
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Snap peas: 7.1oz(200 g)- (or snow peas)
Peas: 0.7cup(100 g)
Fresh scallion: 2oz(60 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Jerusalem artichoke: 10.5oz(300 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Mint: to taste- (optional)
Jerusalem artichoke: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the pasta primavera, boil the Jerusalem artichoke with the skin in boiling water until it is completely cooked and softened; it will take about 30 minutes. In the meantime, move on to the spring onion; remove the roots and the darker green part, then slice it thinly .
Wash the snow peas and cut them into thin diamonds . In a non-stick pan, pour a little oil and sauté a fresh chili pepper cut in half along with the spring onion ; when it starts to wilt, add the snow peas and a pinch of salt.
Sauté them over high heat for about 5 minutes, then remove the chili pepper and add the peas . Continue cooking for another minute, then turn off the heat. Meanwhile, drain the Jerusalem artichoke and peel it while hot; it will be easier .
Transfer the peeled Jerusalem artichoke into a tall, narrow container , then add oil , salt, pepper, and the 3.5 oz of water. If you wish, you can flavor it with a few fresh mint leaves .
Blend well with an immersion blender to obtain a cream and set aside. Cook the linguine in boiling, salted water to taste . Meanwhile, peel the Jerusalem artichoke for decoration and cut it into thin slices that you will season with a splash of oil .
Drain the pasta al dente and transfer it directly to the pan with the vegetables ; add a little cooking water , toss and mix with a drizzle of oil. Plate by placing a couple of tablespoons of Jerusalem artichoke cream on the base of the dish .
Place a nest of linguine, the vegetables , the slices of raw Jerusalem artichoke , and garnish with fresh mint leaves. Your pasta primavera is ready to be served !
We recommend consuming the pasta primavera immediately. Jerusalem artichoke cream can be prepared a day in advance and stored in the refrigerator.
If you prefer, you can cut the chili pepper into slices and leave it in the pasta. In winter, instead of snow peas, you can use broccoli rabe, savoy cabbage, or kale!

