name:
Summer Cannelloni with Vegetables and Ricotta
ingredients:
Egg cannelloni pasta: 14
Eggplant: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Red peppers: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Shallot: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Basil: 6leaves
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- to grate
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(60 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Datterino tomatoes: 2 ½cups(400 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Are you looking for a fresh and light alternative to classic baked cannelloni ? Summer cannelloni with vegetables and ricotta is the perfect answer to bring all the taste of tradition to the table in a more colorful and seasonal version. An ideal recipe for summer Sunday lunches or a dinner with friends, which will win everyone over with its creaminess and garden flavors.
In this vegetarian and lighter version, the filling is prepared with eggplants, bell peppers, ricotta, and fresh basil, wrapped in egg pasta cannelloni, all topped with a homemade velvety béchamel and a caramelized cherry tomato sauce that enhances every bite. Easy to prepare in advance, these cannelloni are perfect to serve warm or at room temperature, to enjoy all the pleasure of a baked dish... even in the hottest season! Try this summer version and also explore all our other cannelloni recipes :
To prepare the summer cannelloni with vegetables and ricotta, start by making the béchamel: melt the butter in a saucepan over low heat , then add the flour and mix with a wooden spoon until you get a roux. When the mixture begins to stick slightly to the edges, gradually pour in the room temperature milk , continuing to stir.
At this point, use a whisk and, still over medium heat, stir until the béchamel starts to boil. Turn off the heat, adjust salt , season with nutmeg , and set aside. For the sauce, heat a little oil in a high-sided pan, add the cherry tomatoes .
Salt and cook for 5-7 minutes, until they are well caramelized . Transfer them to a pitcher .
Blend them with an immersion blender . Set aside the sauce as well . Now move on to the filling: remove the stem and seeds from the bell pepper.
Cut it into strips and then into small cubes . Trim the eggplant and cut it into slices and then into cubes like the bell pepper .
Clean and finely slice the shallot . In a pan, heat the oil and add the shallot . Let it sweat in the pan over low heat until soft, it will take about 3-4 minutes. Now add the eggplants .
Add the bell peppers as well and salt . Cook over medium-high heat for about 10 minutes and let cool .
Once cooled, combine the vegetables with the ricotta in a bowl , add salt , pepper, and hand-torn basil .
Mix well and transfer the mixture into a piping bag without a nozzle . Take a 8 x 12 inch baking dish and spread a layer of béchamel on the bottom .
Stuff the cannelloni with the vegetable and ricotta filling , and place them in the baking dish . Cover with another layer of béchamel .
Sprinkle the surface with grated Parmigiano Reggiano and a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C) for 20 minutes .
Once cooked, serve the summer cannelloni with vegetables and ricotta garnishing the plates with the cherry tomato sauce and fresh basil leaves .
The summer cannelloni with vegetables and ricotta can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
You can freeze them after cooking.
If you want to customize your summer cannelloni with vegetables and ricotta, have fun varying the filling by using other seasonal vegetables, perfect to add color and new flavors to the dish. A great alternative is grilled zucchini: slice them thin, grill them for a few minutes on each side, and then cut them into pieces before adding them to the ricotta.

