name:
Pasta with zucchini and zucchini flower pesto with shrimp
ingredients:
Fusilloni pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Shrimps: 10- red
Almond slices: 0.7oz(20 g)
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Zucchini flowers: 10
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 10tbsp(50 g)- (to grate)
Peeled almonds: 0.35cup(50 g)
Walnut kernels: 0.4cup(50 g)
Basil: 1tuft
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
After showing you how to make zucchini pesto and zucchini flower pesto , today we surprise you with a delightful first course that combines them both: pasta with zucchini and zucchini flower pesto with shrimp ! In this case, the zucchinis are blanched and blended together with the raw zucchini flowers, with the essential addition of nuts and grated cheese. In just a few steps, you will get a creamy and delicate sauce , ideal to enjoy even at room temperature.
The red shrimp tartare adds a fresh and exquisite touch that will delight the most demanding palates... simple yet refined, the pasta with zucchini and zucchini flower pesto with shrimp will be your new ace up your sleeve for the summer menus!
Don't miss these variations:
To prepare pasta with zucchini and zucchini flower pesto with shrimp, first put a pot of salted water on the stove and bring it to a boil. Peel the zucchinis and set aside the peels, then cut the pulp into cubes . Blanch the zucchini peels for 2 minutes .
Drain the peels in ice water , then blanch the zucchini pulp in the same water for 2 minutes . Drain and keep the cooking water aside as you will need it to cook the pasta.
Clean the zucchini flowers by removing the base and the internal stem . Then proceed to clean the shrimp: remove the head and intestines , then remove the shell and cut the flesh into pieces .
Set the shrimp aside and start making the pesto: place the almonds and walnuts in a food processor and blend until powdered, then add the zucchini flowers .
Also add the blanched zucchinis and blend again. Now add the zucchini peels and the oil .
Add the basil leaves and blend again. Finally, add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano and blend one last time to get a thick and creamy pesto . Adjust with salt and transfer the pesto to a large bowl.
Bring the zucchini cooking water back to a boil and cook the pasta until al dente . Meanwhile, thin the pesto with a ladle of the cooking water . Drain the pasta into the bowl with the pesto and mix to combine.
Plate the pesto pasta, topped with raw shrimp and sliced almonds . Your pasta with zucchini and zucchini flower pesto with shrimp is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the pasta with zucchini and zucchini flower pesto with shrimp immediately.
The zucchini and zucchini flower pesto can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in a glass jar.
If you prefer to avoid eating raw shrimp, you can sauté them in a pan for a couple of minutes over high heat.
As an alternative to almonds, you can use pine nuts.
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at -0.4°F in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, as per HHS guidelines.

