name:
Watermelon Cheesecake
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 3 ½cups(300 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)- melted
Cream cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Natural plain yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Whole milk: ⅓cup(80 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Watermelon: 2 ½cups(500 g)- seedless pulp
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 1oz(30 g)
Mint: 3leaves

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 8
Note + 12 hours of resting in the fridge

instructions:
The watermelon cheesecake is a no-bake cold dessert , perfect to serve during summer days. Made with fresh watermelon pulp, cream cheese, and yogurt, this cake combines the freshness of seasonal fruit with the enveloping creaminess of classic cheesecake, for a surprising, genuine, and light result.
Perfect for elegantly concluding a summer lunch or serving at an outdoor dinner, the watermelon cheesecake is also easy to make and stands out for its scenic presentation: the contrast between the bright pink of the gelée and the golden biscuit base creates a refined and irresistible eye-catcher.
Discover other summer desserts with watermelon :
To prepare the watermelon cheesecake, place the cookies in a mixer , blend until you get a sandy texture , then transfer the mixture into a bowl and add the melted, slightly cooled butter .
Mix to combine and transfer the mixture into a 9-inch springform pan lined with parchment paper . Use the back of a spoon to press the cookies well to distribute them evenly and create a compact and even biscuit base . Keep in the fridge for about 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, prepare the cream cheese mixture: soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for 10 minutes to soften them . After this time, add the gelatin to the warmed milk , stir to dissolve completely , and let cool.
In a bowl, combine the cream cheese, yogurt , powdered sugar , and vanilla extract .
Flavor with the grated zest of a lemon . Mix everything , then add the cooled milk and gelatin mixture .
Stir the cream and pour it over the set biscuit base . Level with a spatula .
Place in the refrigerator while you prepare the gelée: slice the watermelon and remove the rind , gather about 12 oz of watermelon and cut it into coarse chunks .
Cube the remaining 5 oz of flesh into half-inch pieces . Place the 12 oz of watermelon in a saucepan and blend with an immersion blender to obtain a thick juice .
Strain the juice using a chinois and add a few drops of lemon and the sugar .
Let it heat over medium heat for about 10 minutes. Meanwhile, soften these gelatin sheets in water for 10 minutes as well and incorporate them into the juice after squeezing them well . Stir with a whisk to ensure the gelatin is completely dissolved .
Let the gelée cool and, once it has reached a temperature of about 68°F, pour it over the cheesecake to create an even layer . Finish by distributing the small watermelon chunks on the surface and refrigerate for 10 hours.
Remove from the mold and plate the watermelon cheesecake , decorating with mint leaves .
The watermelon cheesecake can be stored in the fridge for 3-4 days or frozen.
For a watermelon cheesecake with the perfect consistency, ensure the cream cheese layer is well set before pouring the watermelon gelée: simply let it rest in the fridge for at least 1 hour. This way, the two layers will remain distinct, and the presentation will be even more elegant and scenic.

