name:
Crostini with hummus, grilled peaches, feta, and arugula
ingredients:
Pane rustico bread: 4slices
Feta cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Mint: 8leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Precooked chickpeas: 1 ½cup(350 g)- (drained weight)
Tahini: 1tbsp(15 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Lemon juice: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Nectarines: 3- ripe but firm
Arugula: 2cups(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The crostini with hummus, grilled peaches, feta, and arugula is a simple yet impressive dish, perfect for those who love to creatively combine fresh and contrasting flavors. The crunchy base of rustic bread hosts a creamy and flavorful chickpea hummus , that pairs well with the sweetness of grilled peaches and the saltiness of feta. Arugula completes it all with a slightly spicy and herbal note, offering a truly pleasant balance of taste and textures.
Great to serve as a tasty appetizer or a unique main course for a quick and light summer lunch, the crostini with hummus, grilled peaches, feta, and arugula is also an original idea for a summer aperitif with friends!
Try these other tasty summer crostini recipes:
To prepare the crostini with hummus, grilled peaches, feta, and arugula, start with the peaches: cut them in half and slice them into wedges about 3/4 inch thick . Grease a well-heated grill , place the peach wedges and let them brown for a moment on one side .
Turn the wedges and grill them on the other side . Proceed with the hummus: in a blender, add the drained and rinsed chickpeas , then add the tahini .
Also add the lemon juice , garlic , salt, and pepper .
Blend until you obtain a creamy mixture . Set the hummus aside and dress the arugula with oil . Finally, slice the bread into slices about 3/4 inch thick .
Place the bread slices on the same grill where you cooked the peaches and drizzle some oil on the surface . Turn the slices to the other side as soon as they are toasted .
You are ready to assemble the crostini: spread the hummus on the bread slices , then add the arugula and grilled peaches .
Crumble some feta and garnish with mint leaves . Your crostini with hummus, grilled peaches, feta, and arugula is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the crostini with hummus, grilled peaches, feta, and arugula immediately.
You can vary the base of your crostini with hummus, grilled peaches, feta, and arugula by choosing a seed, whole-grain, or turmeric bread, for example.
If you prefer, you can cut the slices smaller to make a size suitable for a buffet!

