name:
Cake with carrots, coconut, and chocolate
ingredients:
Carrots: 2 ¾cups(300 g)
Coconut flour: 0.9cup(100 g)
Almond flour: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Eggs: 3
Milk: ¾cup(180 g)
Baking powder: 3.8tsp(16 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: 1.3cups(300 g)
Dark chocolate: 6.2oz(175 g)
Coconut: ⅓cup(30 g)- shredded

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
The cake with carrots, coconut, and chocolate is a delicious, fragrant dessert that is also very easy to prepare! You won't need a stand mixer or a hand mixer, just a bowl and a simple hand whisk. The desserts are made with fresh grated carrots mixed directly into the batter, which add moisture and softness, allowing you to reduce the amount of fat without compromising the cake's structure... in fact, this recipe does not use butter ! The coconut, in the form of flour, provides an exotic aroma and a slight chewiness that makes each slice more interesting. The cake is then glazed with an enticing dark chocolate ganache, which gives it a more elegant touch.
Perfect for a special snack, a rich breakfast, or simply to pamper yourself at any time of the day, the cake with carrots, coconut, and chocolate will win you over with its simple soul and unique taste!
If you love the carrot cake , don't miss out on these variations:

To prepare the cake with carrots, coconut, and chocolate, first crack the eggs into a bowl, then add the sugar and mix with a whisk . Once the sugar has dissolved, continue stirring and add the milk .
Proceed with the almond flour , all-purpose flour, coconut flour , and baking powder . Mix well until you obtain a homogeneous mixture with a rustic texture.
Peel and grate the carrots , then add them to the mixture . Stir again, add the salt , and mix one last time.
Transfer the mixture into a 7-inch springform pan , previously buttered and lightly floured. Level the surface and bake in a static oven at 355°F for 40 minutes . Remove from the oven, take the cake out of the pan, and let it cool.
Meanwhile, prepare the chocolate glaze: pour the cream into a saucepan and bring to a boil. Off the heat, add the dark chocolate and stir until completely melted . Then let it cool down to 105°F.
Place the cake on a rack, pour the chocolate glaze over the cake , and spread it evenly with a spatula . Decorate as desired with fresh coconut or coconut flakes .
For the best taste, let the cake rest in the fridge for at least an hour . Your cake with carrots, coconut, and chocolate is ready to be sliced and served .
The cake with carrots, coconut, and chocolate can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap, for 4-5 days.
To avoid lump formation during the preparation of the batter, it is advisable to sift all the flours.
During the cake's baking, you can place a pan of hot water on the bottom of the oven; this will create slight humidity that will prevent the cake from drying out too much.
If you wish, you can enrich the batter with dried fruit such as chopped almonds, pecans, or hazelnuts to add a crunchy note.
If you prefer a milder taste, you can replace dark chocolate with white chocolate.

