name:
Autumn Soup
ingredients:
Pumpkin: 3.7cups(840 g)- cleaned
Borlotti beans: 3 ⅓cups(500 g)- fresh
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 1 ½cup(100 g)
Leeks: 2.8oz(80 g)
Vegetable broth: 8 ½cups(2 l)
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Bay leaves: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Bread: 8slices
Walnut kernels: 1.8oz(50 g)
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Autumn has arrived and brings with it many flavors that warm the heart, like our autumn soup, a rich and wholesome first course that will accompany you on the first cold days when you wish to indulge with taste. In this delicious and creamy soup, we have gathered the most flavorful ingredients of the season: the sweetness of pumpkin, black cabbage which will add a decisive note to the dish, tender and fleshy borlotti beans, and finally a crunchy touch that only walnuts can give. Accompany the autumn soup with fragrant toasted croutons to complete this dish in the tastiest way and take advantage of this wonderful season to try other appetizing autumn recipes:
To make the autumn soup, start by cutting the pumpkin into slices , remove the skin, then cut the flesh into cubes of about 3/4 inch . Tie the bay leaves and rosemary sprigs together with string , so they will be easier to remove at the end of cooking.
Shell the beans and collect them in a bowl. Trim the base of the leek, remove the tougher green part and the first two leaves, then slice it into rings . Wash the black cabbage leaves .
And chop them coarsely . The ingredients are ready for cooking: heat the olive oil in a large pot, add the sliced leek , let it brown for 1 minute, then cover with a ladle of broth and let it simmer for 5-6 minutes.
When the leek is stewed, add the diced pumpkin , shelled beans , and black cabbage .
Finally, add the bundle of aromatic herbs , cover the vegetables with broth so that they are completely immersed in the liquid, then cover with the lid and let it cook for about 2 hours; stir occasionally.
After the cooking time, the vegetables will be tender; remove the herb bundle, salt and pepper to taste, then keep warm. Slice the loaf of bread , place the slices on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper ,
season with olive oil , a pinch of salt, and rosemary needles , then toast the bread until golden in a preheated static oven at 464°F in grill mode for 3-4 minutes.
Now place the walnut kernels in a very hot pan (you can leave them whole or coarsely crumble them), toast them for 3 minutes to brown them by shaking the pan to prevent burning , then add them to the soup. Serve the autumn soup hot accompanied by toasted bread croutons.
Store the autumn soup in the refrigerator for a maximum of a couple of days.
You can freeze it if you have used fresh ingredients.
As an alternative to fresh beans, you can use dried beans, making sure to soak them before cooking for at least 12 hours and to cook them separately as they will require longer cooking times to become tender.

