name:
Autumn Pasta
ingredients:
Pennette rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Pumpkin: 2cups(500 g)
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 7.1oz(200 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Chestnuts: 0.8lb(350 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.1tbsp(15 g)
Peperoncino: 1- dry
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Autumn has arrived, with its enchanting reddish-gold cloak, bringing the first scarves, good intentions, and the crisp air that reddens hands and warms the heart. However, for those of us who are passionate about food, autumn immediately brings to mind its magnificent produce: the small, sweet, floury chestnuts from the November woods, considered 'bread' for centuries, both symbolically and literally, by the mountain populations of Europe and especially of our Apennines; the pumpkins, with their orange hues and whimsical shapes, which have sparked popular imagination and inspired fairy tales and legends... To fully immerse ourselves in the magic of this time of year, we have come up with a recipe with a robust flavor, sweet yet savory and spicy, encapsulating the contrasts of autumn and its most typical flavors: penne rigate with Tuscan kale, squash, gorgonzola, and spicy chestnuts. A rich vegetarian main course, perfect for enjoying a family dinner, sharing the warmth of the home table while outside, the leaves fall dancing.
Come discover other appetizing autumn recipes to prepare at home!
To prepare the autumn pasta, start by cooking the chestnuts. Place them in a pot with plenty of cold unsalted water, and put them on the heat . Boil them for about 20-25 minutes from the first boil, then drain them , let them cool slightly, and peel them .
Coarsely chop them into 3-4 pieces each . Then chop the dried chili pepper and add it along with the oil to a large pan. As soon as it starts to sizzle, add the chestnuts
and let them brown for a few minutes over high heat . Salt and set them aside. Focus on the vegetables: clean the squash to obtain 2 1/3 cups (300 g) and dice it ; then wash the kale well, cut off the base of the bunch
and thinly slice the leaves . In a large pan, heat the oil and sauté the garlic, cut into large pieces to easily remove at the end of cooking. Add the Tuscan kale , and after a minute, add the squash .
Add a ladle of water and cook, stirring often, for about 15 minutes . Adjust salt only towards the end of cooking . Meanwhile, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and throw in the pasta .
Add the gorgonzola to the now-cooked kale and squash , from which you will have removed the garlic used for sautéing. Mix well to melt it , drain the pasta al dente
And add it to the pan along with the squash, Tuscan kale, and gorgonzola . Mix well, add the spicy roasted chestnuts , stir and plate your delicious autumn pasta !
The spicy chestnuts can be stored in the fridge, covered, for up to 2 days. Autumn pasta should be consumed immediately but can be stored, covered in the fridge, for 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
If you're concerned that our 'spicy' might be too spicy, you can remove the seeds from the chili pepper before chopping it: this way, you'll still have a lively flavor, but suitable even for less daring palates!

