name:
Modern Grandma's Cake
ingredients:
Butter: ½cup(125 g)
Sugar: 7tbsp(90 g)
Egg yolks: 2 ¾tbsp(40 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Lemon peel: ½
Milk: 2cups(500 g)
Egg yolks: 7tbsp(100 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Cornstarch: 6tbsp(25 g)
Rice starch: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Lemon peel: 1
Cinnamon powder: to taste
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.4cup(50 g)
Eggs: 1.8oz(50 g)- at room temperature
Pine nuts: 0.3cup(50 g)- toasted
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Pine nuts: 1 ½tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time for the pastry and custard in the fridge (3 hours) + the resting time for the cake in the refrigerator (2 hours)

instructions:
The modern grandma's cake is a dessert inspired by the classic Italian homemade pastry, the grandma's cake . While the traditional version is synonymous with simplicity, this variant is much more elegant. What makes the cake unique is the harmonious combination of its main elements: the shortcrust pastry , crunchy and lemon-scented, serves as the base for the Frangipane cream and the elegant topping, made of dollops of custard cream . This play of textures is the true strength of this cake, which satisfies those who love genuine flavors as well as those who appreciate more refined desserts. The modern grandma's cake is suitable for any occasion: for a buffet, as a dessert for special occasions, or as a companion for a great cup of tea.
If you are looking for other desserts for Grandparents' Day, also try:
To prepare the modern grandma's cake, first focus on the shortcrust pastry. In a stand mixer with a paddle attachment, place the butter, sugar , grated lemon zest , and a pinch of salt . Mix until the sugar is fully absorbed into the butter.
Add the egg yolks and mix. Then add the flour and mix again until you get a compact dough. Transfer the dough to a work surface, form it into a disc, wrap it in plastic wrap , and let it rest in the fridge for at least 3 hours.
Meanwhile, prepare the custard. In a saucepan, pour the milk, add the lemon zest , cinnamon , and a pinch of salt .
Finally, add the vanilla, the pod into the milk , while the seeds go into another bowl . As the milk comes to a boil, add the sugar and egg yolks to the bowl .
Quickly whisk by hand until you get a smooth mixture . Add the cornstarch and rice starch .
Mix again to get a smooth, lump-free mixture . When the milk comes to a boil, strain it into the bowl using a sieve .
Stir quickly and pour everything back into the pot and cook on low heat, stirring continuously, until it almost reaches a boil . Transfer the custard to a baking dish, cover with cling film touching the surface , and let it cool at room temperature; once cooled, you can move it to the fridge and let it rest for 3 hours.
Now focus on the frangipane cream. Prepare the pine nut flour by placing the toasted pine nuts in a blender , along with the flour , blend until you get a smooth, floury mixture . Set aside.
In a bowl, place the butter and add the powdered sugar , then beat with an electric mixer for at least 5 minutes to get a fluffy mixture. Add the egg and continue beating . It's important that the egg is at room temperature to ensure the mixture doesn't curdle. Lastly, add the pine nut flour .
Continue mixing until the flour is absorbed into the mixture . Take the shortcrust pastry and knead it first by hand to restore elasticity, then with a rolling pin. On a lightly floured work surface, roll out a circular sheet about 1/8 inch thick .
Transfer the pastry to a 9-inch diameter cake pan, previously buttered . Trim the excess by pressing with your fingers or using a small knife and prick the bottom with a fork .
Fill with frangipane cream and smooth it out . Bake in a static oven at 350°F for about 30 minutes, on the lowest rack of the oven. Remove from the oven and let it cool completely .
Turn out the cake and place it on a serving plate. Take the custard, soften it with a whisk and transfer it to a piping bag fitted with a plain nozzle, about 1/2 inch in diameter. Decorate the cake by creating dollops of custard , starting from the outside and moving inward. Decorate with some pine nuts and let it rest in the fridge for at least 2 hours before serving. Your modern grandma's cake is ready to be enjoyed !
The modern grandma's cake keeps in the fridge, well covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container, for 2-3 days.
You can add cocoa to the shortcrust pastry or the frangipane cream. For decoration, instead of the classic pine nuts, you can use fresh fruits such as raspberries, strawberries, or berries.

