name:
Meatballs and Potatoes
ingredients:
Beef: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (ground)
Potatoes: 5.6oz(160 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)- (to grate)
Breadcrumbs: ¼cup(30 g)
Eggs: 1
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Potatoes: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Sage: 6leaves- small ones
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Makes: 25 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
The meatballs are the undisputed queens of the kitchen, especially the meat ones! Everyone has a favorite version: some prefer them stewed, some pan-fried, or deep-fried. Today we want to tempt you with meat and oven-baked potatoes . If you are among the skeptics who believe that oven cooking dries out the ground beef too much, you'll change your mind. It's the potatoes, also included in the meatball mixture, that ensure this dish remains particularly soft and succulent. Make your whole family happy with this simple yet timeless dish that combines one of the most beloved main courses with the most versatile and tasty side dish ever!
Also try the baked pumpkin bites and the stewed meatballs , tasty and genuine variations!
To prepare the meatballs and potatoes , start with the latter. Begin with those that will go into the mixture. Immerse the indicated amount in a pot with water and salt, bring to a boil, and count about 40 minutes: check the cooking by pricking with a fork; if the fork goes in easily, they are ready . Now move on to the potatoes for the side dish. After washing and peeling them , cut them into quarters .
In a pot with boiling and salted water with a tablespoon of coarse salt , add the potato wedges and let them cook for 5 minutes: this way, the meat and potatoes will have the same cooking times in the oven. Drain the potatoes and place them in a bowl. Season with olive oil ,
salt and pepper, add the sage leaves and rosemary needles . Mix everything and let it marinate . At this point, the potatoes in the boiling water should be cooked; drain them and peel them while still very hot .
Crush them and add them to a bowl with the ground meat . Add the egg, salt, and a sprinkle of pepper
the breadcrumbs, Grana Padano cheese , and finely chopped parsley . Mix well to combine everything .
Now take small portions of the mixture, about 1 oz each, and form small meatballs to place conveniently on a sheet of baking paper. You should get about 25 pieces . Lightly oil a baking dish and roll the meatballs inside .
Add the potatoes with the seasoning and distribute well. Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 45 minutes, taking care to turn the meatballs halfway through cooking until they are golden brown on the surface . For the last 5 minutes, turn on the grill (or increase the oven temperature) to form a delicious crust on both the meat and potato meatballs .
The meatballs and potatoes are excellent hot and freshly made. However, if needed, they can be stored until the next day in the fridge, closed in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
Do you want to make the meatballs and potatoes mixture even more special? Great, add 3 oz of mortadella or ham previously blended in a mixer.

