name:
Autumn Galette
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)- cold
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- cold
Salt: to taste
Yellow potatoes: 10.6oz(300 g)- for baking and steaming
Broccoli: 5.3oz(150 g)
Verza (savoy cabbage): 5.3oz(150 g)
Fontina cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
The autumn galette is a savory pie that encapsulates the flavors of autumn. The shortcrust pastry , crispy and crumbly, serves as a container for potatoes, broccoli, and savoy cabbage, a rich and flavorful filling made even more irresistible by the fontina cheese that melts during cooking, providing a creamy texture. This rustic savory pie is suitable for all occasions, from informal lunches and dinners to brunches. We will guide you step by step in preparing the autumn galette, a simple dish to prepare that has that homemade character that everyone loves!
If you are looking for more savory pie recipes, also try:
To prepare the autumn galette, start with the shortcrust pastry. In a bowl, place the flour, add the salt and the cold butter . Work quickly, pinching it , until you get a mixture with the consistency of sand.
Add the cold water and work the mixture quickly until you obtain a smooth dough . Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
Peel the potatoes and cut them first into slices and then into cubes about 1/2 inch . In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil and add the crushed garlic clove .
Add the potatoes and sauté for 10 minutes. Adjust the salt and remove them from the pan. Set aside. Meanwhile, separate the broccoli florets and cut them into pieces.
Remove the outer and harder part of the stem , cut it into cubes and add them to the florets . Remove the outer and tougher leaves of the savoy cabbage. Cut it in half and then into strips .
Cut the strips in half as well . In the same pan where you cooked the potatoes, pour a drizzle of oil, add a crushed garlic clove, then add the broccoli . Sauté for 5 minutes, adjust the salt .
Pour 2 tablespoons of water and continue cooking for another 5 minutes. Add the savoy cabbage, adjust the salt , and sauté for 10 minutes , or until the vegetables are cooked. Let cool.
In a bowl, combine potatoes, vegetables, grated fontina cheese and mix . Roll out the shortcrust pastry with a rolling pin on a floured surface until it approximately 1/4 inch thick .
Line a 10-inch diameter flared mold with parchment paper and place the pastry inside, using the rolling pin to transfer it. Prick the bottom with a fork . Fill with potatoes, vegetables, and fontina cheese . Add a sprinkle of Grana Padano .
Fold the edges of the pastry inward, creating folds , and bake in a static oven at 392°F (200°C) for 30 minutes. Remove from the oven, let cool slightly, and add a sprinkle of pepper . Your autumn galette is ready to be served !
The autumn galette can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap or in a closed container, for 2 days. Before serving, you can slightly reheat it in the oven at a low temperature to restore the crispness of the shortcrust pastry. It can be frozen.
To shorten the cooking time of the broccoli, you can cook them with a lid, but be sure to remove it a few minutes before adding the savoy cabbage to dry them. If the shortcrust pastry is too hard once taken out of the refrigerator, you can soften it by giving it some whacks with the rolling pin. The autumn galette lends itself to variations on the theme: try it, for example, with a filling of pumpkin, mushrooms, or kale. For those who love strong flavors, replace the fontina with taleggio or gorgonzola cheese.

