name:
Pumpkin and Mushroom Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Chives: to taste
Delica pumpkin: 1.67cups(400 g)
Garlic: 4cloves- poached
Sage: 4leaves
Oyster mushroom or oyster fungus (Pleurotus): (300 g)- clean
Garlic: 3cloves- poached
Sage: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pumpkin and mushroom risotto is a first course with autumn flavors. Unlike the classic pumpkin risotto , in this recipe, the sweetness of the pumpkin is enhanced by slow oven cooking, preserving its creaminess and perfectly pairing with the earthy note of pleurotus mushrooms. The final touch of fresh chives is not just an aesthetic choice but adds a slight freshness to the dish. Pumpkin and mushroom risotto is ideal for those looking for a warm, satisfying first course, allowing you to bring a colorful and delicious dish to the table without overcomplicating your life in the kitchen.
If you're looking for other risotto recipes with pumpkin, don't miss out:
To prepare the pumpkin and mushroom risotto, first cut the pumpkin and remove the seeds and internal fibers . Divide it into 4 pieces and place each piece on a sheet of aluminum foil, season with oil , salt, and pepper .
Add, to each piece, the unpeeled garlic and sage . Close the aluminum foil sheets and cook in a preheated static oven at 450°F for 1 hour. Meanwhile, break the cleaned pleurotus mushrooms with your hands .
In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, add the unpeeled garlic and sage , and sauté over low heat. Add the mushrooms , raise the flame, and brown them for a few minutes. Season with salt and pepper .
Scoop out the pumpkin pulp with a spoon and transfer it to a bowl. Add a little water and blend with an immersion blender until a smooth puree is obtained. Set aside.
In a pot, heat the oil, add the rice , and toast for a few minutes. Pour in water , season with salt , and continue cooking, adding a ladle of water each time the previous one is absorbed by the rice.
Once halfway through cooking, add the pumpkin puree , stir , and finish cooking. At the end, add the oil .
Season with salt and pepper . Add the mushrooms , reserving some for plating, and the chives . Stir for a few minutes.
Plate, place the mushrooms on the surface of the rice, and finish with the chives . Your pumpkin and mushroom risotto is ready to be enjoyed .
Pumpkin and mushroom risotto should be consumed as soon as it's ready, but if there are leftovers, it can be stored in the refrigerator in a closed container for 2 days.
You can substitute pleurotus with any fresh mushrooms you prefer or have available. Try adding some mild gorgonzola during the final stirring for a more savory note.

