name:
Autumn Lasagna
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 7oz(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Rosemary: 1sprig
Pumpkin: 2cups(500 g)
Vegetable broth: 1.7cups(400 g)
Leeks: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sausage: 1lb(460 g)
White wine: 3.4oz(100 ml)
Fennel seeds: 1pinch
Vegetable broth: ¼cup(50 ml)
Milk: 2.1cups(500 ml)- (warm)
Type 00 flour: 3.3tbsp(50 ml)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Porcini mushrooms: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Autumn lasagna is a rich and appetizing dish that brings together all the flavors and colors of autumn in a single plate. Layers of pasta sheets enclose a sausage ragù, flavorful porcini mushrooms, a comforting pumpkin velouté, and a creamy béchamel sauce, indispensable in all lasagnas. Also try other autumn recipes like Pumpkin and sausage lasagna or Lasagna with mushrooms . If the season has changed, it's time to make our winter vegetable lasagna !
To prepare the autumn lasagna, start with the pumpkin: cut it into wedges and then remove the skin and seeds , dice the flesh , and thinly slice the leek .
In a pan, heat a drizzle of olive oil and sauté the leek over medium-high heat for a couple of minutes . Then add the diced pumpkin, keeping 1.8 oz aside for the ragù , the rosemary, and continue cooking over medium heat, adding the vegetable broth little by little , as it is absorbed by the pumpkin. Cook for about 20 minutes or until the pumpkin is soft.
Meanwhile, prepare the ragù: remove the casing and crumble the sausage, placing it in a large pan , season with fennel seeds , and brown it with a drizzle of oil,
then deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate. Add the reserved 1.8 oz of pumpkin , season with rosemary
and continue cooking for 15-20 minutes, adding the vegetable broth to prevent it from drying out. Once cooked , turn off the heat and set the ragù aside. In the meantime, the pumpkin will be ready ; blend it with an immersion blender
to make the cream . Clean the mushrooms: brush off any dirt, rinse them quickly if necessary, and dry them well with a cloth. Slice the mushrooms lengthwise , place them in a pan with a drizzle of oil and a clove of garlic
and sauté for 5 minutes , adding vegetable broth if needed. Once cooked, turn off the heat and set aside . Prepare the béchamel: heat the milk in a saucepan, flavored with nutmeg ,
separately, melt the butter over low heat, then turn off the heat and add the sifted flour, stirring with a whisk to avoid lumps . Then put it back on low heat and stir until it turns golden to make the roux . Add the roux to the milk ,
stirring vigorously with the whisk. Cook for 5-6 minutes over low heat until the sauce thickens . Everything is ready to assemble the lasagna: take a 8x12 inch baking dish, spread a layer of béchamel on the bottom , then a layer of pumpkin cream
and place a first layer of lasagna sheets . Cover with the first layer of ragù and then place the mushrooms on top ,
then start a second layer with the sheets in the same order: béchamel, pumpkin cream, ragù, and mushrooms, continue until the ingredients are finished. Finish with a layer of ragù and mushrooms, sprinkle the surface with grated Grana Padano cheese, and season with a few sprigs of rosemary . Bake the lasagna in a preheated static oven at 355°F for 15 minutes plus 5 minutes on grill mode. Once cooked, remove the autumn lasagna from the oven and let it cool slightly before serving.
You can store the autumn lasagna in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for 1-2 days. It can be prepared the day before, kept in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap, and baked the next day. They can be frozen, only if all fresh ingredients were used, preferably uncooked: to cook, just thaw in the refrigerator about 24 hours before and then bake.
Instead of porcini mushrooms, you can use another type like champignons.
The ragù can also be prepared with a mixed beef and pork mince.

