name:
Light Apple Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Brown sugar: ⅓cup(80 g)
Egg whites: 3.2oz(90 g)- (from about two and a half medium eggs, at room temperature)
Golden delicious apples: 1.1lbs(500 g)- to clean
Greek yogurt 2% fat: 0.4cup(100 g)
Orange juice: ⅓cup(80 g)
Baking powder: 3 ¾tsp(16 g)
Acacia honey: 2tsp(15 g)
Flax seed: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Lemon juice: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Brown sugar: to taste
Flax seed: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
How can you resist the enveloping aroma of homemade apple cake ? A timeless sweet treat that comes in many variations, like with invisible apples , rayed ... or light like this light apple cake! This version is made without butter and oil, using low-fat yogurt and only egg whites. Experimenting makes it easy to find alternatives, especially by replacing the fats we are most accustomed to (oil and butter) with other ingredients like ricotta, creating vegan versions, or simply enriching the batter, always aromatic and creamy . We are sure that even this light apple cake will keep you company at breakfast, soft and wholesome but above all rich in juicy and sweet apples!
Try other delicious variations of apple cakes:

To make the light apple cake, first carefully wash the apples. Cut the apples into quarters , remove the central core part , and then slice them thinly without peeling .
Transfer the sliced apples into a large bowl, add the lemon juice and honey . In a separate bowl, pour the egg whites ,
the sugar and salt ; beat the mixture with electric whisks for a couple of minutes. Add the yogurt and work for a few seconds.
Incorporate the sifted flour and baking powder and the flax seeds .
Finally, pour the orange juice and work with the whisks until you get a homogeneous mixture . Add the apple slices to the batter, keeping 1/3 aside for decoration .
Line the bottom of a 9-inch mold with parchment paper and pour in the batter. Level the surface with a spoon and decorate with the remaining apples . You can create a pattern like ours or rays if you prefer.
Sprinkle through a sieve some brown sugar and flax seeds . Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 50 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool slightly before unmolding. Serve the light apple cake at room temperature.
The light apple cake keeps for 2 days under a glass dome. It can be frozen after baking.
You can use the leftover yolks from the recipe to make shortcrust pastry without butter , fragrant and light!

