name:
Radicchio Strudel
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- rectangular
Radicchio: 4.4lbs(1.8 kg)
Edam cheese: 1.3cups(150 g)
Breadcrumbs: 3spoonfuls
Poppy seeds: to taste
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: 2spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Are you also in love with strudel ? As a dessert it is extraordinary, but try it in a savory version with our radicchio strudel recipe: a dish with winter flavors that will win you over at the first bite! Easy and quick to prepare, this strudel will enrich your menus with flavor all year round: just vary the filling with other seasonal vegetables, add diced bacon, Edam, or other leftover ingredients, and in a few steps, you'll bring a tasty savory pie to the table!
Discover more captivating recipes we have created for you:
To prepare the radicchio strudel, first wash the radicchio and slice it very coarsely . Heat a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil in a pan , add the radicchio and salt.
Cover with the lid and cook over moderate heat for about 10 minutes, making sure to check from time to time that the radicchio does not burn and if necessary, add a little water. Transfer to a container and let cool. Cut the cheese into cubes . Roll out the puff pastry on a baking sheet with parchment paper. Sprinkle breadcrumbs along the central part : the breadcrumbs will absorb the excess moisture from the radicchio, allowing the puff pastry to remain less soggy, thus crispier and flakier.
Spread the now cold radicchio over the breadcrumbs . Add the diced Edam . In a small bowl, beat the egg yolk with the milk .
Cut fringes on one long side of the puff pastry. Brush the mixture over the puff pastry , fold one edge towards the filled center . Overlap the fringes to create a decorative pattern .
Finally, brush the entire surface of the strudel with the egg and milk mixture and sprinkle with poppy seeds . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 30 minutes or until the puff pastry is golden brown. The radicchio strudel is ready to be served .
Store the radicchio strudel in the fridge for a couple of days. You can freeze the strudel after baking.
If you're in the mood to try your hand at it, try making the puff pastry at home with our recipe!

