name:
Baked Pumpkin Bites
ingredients:
Delica pumpkin: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (to be cleaned)
Cream cheese: 0.67cup(150 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(120 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- (to grate)
Marjoram: to taste- fresh
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you also love fried pumpkin bites , you will certainly appreciate this light and tasty variation: baked pumpkin bites ! Soft bites to be served as an appetizer or for a happy hour, perhaps along with a dipping sauce. The egg-free mixture of these bites is made with oven-baked pumpkin , cheese, and breadcrumbs, to which the scent of fresh marjoram is added, enhancing the delicate taste. Ideal for the whole family or for friends who are more health-conscious, baked pumpkin bites are also perfect as a vegetarian main course for a menu with autumn flavors!
Try these baked bites recipes too:
To make the baked pumpkin bites , first place the whole pumpkin on a baking tray and cook in a preheated static oven at 392°F for at least 40-45 minutes, or until it is well cooked (before taking it out, insert a skewer and check that it easily goes into the flesh) . Remove the pumpkin from the oven and let it cool slightly, then remove the skin, seeds, and inner fibers. Transfer 21 oz of flesh to a bowl and mash it well with a fork .
Add the breadcrumbs , grated Parmigiano Reggiano PDO , a pinch of salt , and pepper.
Also add the cream cheese and marjoram leaves , then mix everything with your hands or a fork .
When you have obtained a homogeneous mixture , form balls weighing about 2 oz each and roll them in breadcrumbs .
Place the balls on a baking tray lined with parchment paper, spacing them slightly apart . Bake in a preheated static oven at 374°F for 30 minutes . Remove from the oven and serve your baked pumpkin bites hot or warm !
Baked pumpkin bites can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can replace the fresh cream cheese with ricotta.
Accompany the baked pumpkin bites with a sauce made of sour cream, fresh marjoram, salt, pepper, and a drizzle of oil!

