name:
Saffron Risotto with Taleggio and Pancetta
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Sweet Pancetta: 5.3oz(150 g)
Saffron: 0.1tsp(0.3 g)- (2 sachets of 0.15 g each)
White wine: 0.4cup(100 g)
Vegetable broth: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Taleggio cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Raspadura cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
The saffron risotto with taleggio and pancetta is a creamy first course, enveloping and full of character, to be offered as an alternative to the classic saffron risotto . The saffron gives the dish a golden color and a refined aroma, while the taleggio melts slowly during the creaming process, providing structure and savoriness. Finally, the pancetta sautéed in the pan adds a truly irresistible crispy note. Suitable for a variety of occasions, the saffron risotto with taleggio and pancetta will be so appreciated that you will definitely be asked for seconds!
If you are a fan of saffron risottos, also try these delicious variations:

To prepare the saffron risotto with taleggio and pancetta, first prepare the vegetable broth following our recipe. Cut the pancetta into strips , place it in a saucepan , and cook over medium-high heat for 10 minutes . The fat released will be used to toast the rice.
Transfer the crispy pancetta onto absorbent paper and set aside. In the same saucepan, pour the rice , add the salt , and toast for a few minutes until the grains are warm to the touch.
At this point, deglaze with the white wine and let the alcohol evaporate completely. Cook the rice by adding one ladle of broth at a time, always waiting for the previous one to be absorbed . Meanwhile, dissolve the saffron in a little warm broth .
Cut the taleggio into cubes, removing the rind . When there are 5 minutes left until the risotto is done, add the dissolved saffron and stir to combine. When the rice is cooked, turn off the heat and cream with the taleggio .
Plate and complete with the crispy pancetta , then garnish with a few petals of raspadura cheese . Your saffron risotto with taleggio and pancetta is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the saffron risotto with taleggio and pancetta immediately after preparation.
If you prefer, you can substitute the taleggio with gorgonzola or brie.
For a vegetarian version, you can omit the pancetta and add sautéed mushrooms or artichokes.

