name:
Saffron risotto with artichokes and goat cheese
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.67cups(320 g)
Artichokes: 7oz(200 g)- (to clean)
Goat: 7oz(200 g)
Saffron: 0.03oz(0.3 g)- (2 sachets of 0.15 g each)
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
The saffron risotto is enriched with the flavor of seasonal vegetables and the creaminess of fresh cheese in a simple yet tasty recipe: saffron risotto with artichokes and goat cheese! A first course inspired by the traditional Milanese risotto , retaining the characteristic golden hue given by the magical touch of saffron and its unmistakable aroma. To the goodness of this classic base preparation, we've added the fragrance of fried artichokes and the slightly tangy taste of goat cheese, with which the risotto is creamed. The saffron risotto with artichokes and goat cheese offers an original reinterpretation of a timeless dish, which will surely delight you even in this version…
Discover other tasty variations of saffron risotto:

To prepare the saffron risotto with artichokes and goat cheese, first clean the artichokes : remove the outer leaves , then shorten the stem and peel it near the base . Cut off the tips and cut the artichoke in half.
Finally, remove the choke and cut the artichokes into thin slices . Immerse the sliced artichokes in acidulated water or fry them immediately in seed oil at a temperature of 356°F for about 2-3 minutes .
When they are crispy and golden, drain the artichokes and transfer them to paper towels . Set aside and bring a pot of water to a boil, which you will use to cook the risotto. Toast the rice in a saucepan with a drizzle of oil , then deglaze with a ladle of hot water .
Salt and cook the rice by adding a ladle of hot water at a time, always waiting for the liquid to be absorbed before adding more. Meanwhile, pour the saffron into a small bowl with a little warm water and stir to dissolve it .
When there are 5 minutes left for the risotto to finish cooking, add the dissolved saffron and mix well . Once the risotto is ready, turn off the heat and stir in half of the goat cheese .
Add a drizzle of oil and chopped parsley , then mix everything together .
Plate the saffron risotto, then form quenelles with the remaining goat cheese and place 3 in the center . Finally, top with the fried artichokes . Your saffron risotto with artichokes and goat cheese is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the saffron risotto with artichokes and goat cheese immediately.
Leftover risotto, without fried artichokes, can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in an airtight container.
If you prefer, you can cook the rice with vegetable broth instead of hot water.

