name:
Pistachio Caprese Cake
ingredients:
Pistachio flour: 1cup(200 g)
Pistachio paste: 0.625cup(150 g)
Eggs: 2
Vegetable oil: 0.7cup(150 g)
Sugar: 0.67cup(130 g)
Pistachio flour: 0.7oz(20 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
The pistachio caprese cake is an irresistible, delicious, and fragrant dessert, decorated with a delightful Ganache cream . It is a reinterpretation of the classic caprese cake , which leaves behind dark chocolate and almonds to make room for pistachios. With its distinctive fudgy texture, it's perfect to serve as a dessert after a meal, but also at breakfast or as a snack, perhaps with a good coffee or a cup of green tea.
An easy recipe to make, it can be served to celebrate a special occasion or simply to treat yourself a little. If you love desserts that combine simplicity and taste, you must try the pistachio caprese cake: it will win you over slice after slice!
How many versions of the caprese cake do you know? Here are some:
If you're looking for other pistachio dessert recipes, take a look at:
To prepare the pistachio caprese cake, first separate the yolks from the egg whites. Beat the egg whites until stiff peaks form and set aside. Put the yolks in another bowl .
Add the sugar and beat with an electric mixer until you get a smooth mixture .
Add the pistachio paste and mix again to combine. At this point, add the vegetable oil and the pistachio flour .
Incorporate everything with the mixer until you get a smooth mixture . Finally, add the stiff egg whites .
Gently fold from bottom to top to avoid deflating the egg whites . Pour everything into a 8-inch springform pan lined with parchment paper and bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 30 minutes .
Let it cool completely, then place a small bowl in the center of the cake and dust with powdered sugar . Remove the bowl and decorate the empty space with pistachio flour . Your pistachio caprese cake is ready to be enjoyed !
The pistachio caprese cake can be stored at room temperature for 3-4 days, covered with a glass dome, in a cool, dry place.
If you wish, you can add a handful of white chocolate chips to the pistachio caprese batter for an even more indulgent touch. Alternatively, you can cover the surface with pistachio glaze or with a drizzle of melted white chocolate and chopped pistachios for a super scenic effect!

