name:
Pork strips with beer
ingredients:
Pork loin: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Blond beer: 7oz(200 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 1sprig
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pork strips with beer are a quick second course that is full of flavor, perfect for everyday lunches and dinners. Made with slices of pork loin, these strips are prepared in just a few minutes and are loved for their tenderness and bold taste.
The special touch of the recipe is the beer , which adds character and a unique aromatic note to the meat. A brief cooking time in the pan is enough to achieve a tasty and satisfying dish, ideal to accompany with simple sides like roasted potatoes or grilled vegetables.
An easy, economical, and delicious second course, ready in less than half an hour, perfect even when you have little time but don't want to compromise on taste. Try other variations using beef or chicken strips... but with pork and beer, success is guaranteed!
Here are other must-try pork-based second courses:
To prepare the pork strips with beer, start by cutting the loin into slices, then cut into strips and continue to make strips . In a saucepan, pour the extra virgin olive oil, rosemary, and garlic . Let them infuse on low heat.
Meanwhile, pour the flour into a bowl and add the pork strips , mix to coat them well in flour . At this point, remove the garlic and rosemary from the pot .
Remove excess flour from the strips and transfer them to the saucepan . Salt , brown well, and deglaze with the beer .
At this point cook for about 13 minutes, until the sauce has thickened . Plate, add a sprinkle of black pepper, and serve .
Pork strips with beer can be stored in the fridge for 2 days, well covered.
To make the dish more complete and tasty, you can add red onion rings (or shallot) and julienned carrot. Before deglazing with beer, sauté them gently with the garlic: this way you will obtain a savory base and a richer sauce.

