name:
Crepe without butter
ingredients:
Eggs: 2
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Milk: 2cups(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Salt: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: 1filo

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
The crepes without butter are a light and versatile variant of the famous French recipe , perfect to enjoy in a thousand different ways, sweet or savory! Thin, soft, and light, they are ideal for a delicious but more balanced breakfast, or to create tasty and creative dishes to serve on any occasion.
Making crepes is very easy: few ingredients, no added fats, and the result is surprising. A neutral base that adapts to any filling: from jams and spreads to vegetables, cheeses, or cold cuts, for a complete and satisfying meal without guilt.
The crepes without butter are the perfect solution for those who want to stay light without giving up taste... a simple recipe that will surprise you every time! If you love crepe recipes , also try these variations:
Recipe by Michela Carta
To prepare crepes without butter, pour the whole eggs into a bowl and beat them with a whisk . Gradually pour in the milk .
Add a pinch of salt and the extra virgin olive oil , continuing to mix with the whisk .
Now incorporate the sifted flour through a sieve, a little at a time , always mixing with the whisk to avoid lumps and obtain a smooth and homogeneous batter . Pour a little oil into a pan with a diameter of approximately 7 inches .
Remove any excess oil with a kitchen paper . Pour a ladle of batter to cover the bottom .
After about a minute, keeping the flame medium, you will notice that the edges will begin to detach from the pan and will be slightly golden, flip the crepe with a spatula and cook it on the other side . Transfer the crepe to a plate, stacking them one on top of the other ( The crepes without butter are ready, and you can choose to serve them sweet or savory.

The crepes without butter can be stored in the refrigerator wrapped with plastic wrap for 2 or 3 days.
If you want to keep the crepes longer, you can also freeze them, then defrost them in the refrigerator before using them. You can freeze them all together or separate them with a sheet of parchment paper so that you can take out one at a time.

If you plan to use the crepes for sweet fillings, you can flavor the batter with cinnamon, lemon zest, or vanilla beans.

