name:
Eggplant Cream
ingredients:
Eggplant: 2
Garlic: 1clove
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1tbsp(15 g)- grated
Basil: 4leaves
Almonds: 0.5oz(15 g)
Pepper: 1pinch
Salt: 1pinch
Parsley: 1tuft
Peperoncino: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.7tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The eggplant cream is a simple and tasty preparation, perfect to serve as an appetizing starter or as a versatile sauce to enrich many summer dishes. Once roasted, eggplants release all their intense and enveloping flavor, becoming the star of a soft and fragrant cream, enriched with garlic, extra virgin olive oil, and fresh parsley.
A quick and easy recipe, ideal to spread on bread crostini, to accompany meat or fish dishes, or to make sandwiches and flatbreads special with a Mediterranean touch. Moreover, it is a great idea to make the most of seasonal eggplants!
Whether it's for an aperitif with friends or a light lunch, the eggplant cream will bring all the flavor of summer to the table… a genuine, fragrant, and irresistible recipe to try right away!
If you love eggplant recipes , don't miss these delicious variants:
Recipe by Michela Carta
To prepare the eggplant cream, wash them, place them on a cutting board, and prick them with a fork ; this step is essential to prevent them from exploding during cooking. Once both are prepared, transfer them to a baking sheet covered with parchment paper , without adding anything. Bake at 392°F in static mode for about 45 minutes, on the middle shelf of the oven .
Once cooked, the skin will appear wilted, and the inside will be soft. Peel them and transfer them to a bowl .
Then slightly mash them with the appropriate tool or with a fork. Move the eggplant pulp to a colander over a bowl, press lightly with a spoon to release the excess cooking water . Then transfer to a mixer and add the peeled garlic clove .
At this point, add a pinch of salt, a pinch of pepper , the grated parmesan cheese , and the almonds .
Next, add the basil , then close the mixer and blend everything until you get a smooth cream . Transfer to a small bowl .
Then take the parsley and chop it finely . Enrich the eggplant cream with a drizzle of oil , the finely chopped parsley, and a pinch of chili pepper ! Serve it immediately or store it in the refrigerator!
You can store the eggplant cream in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap or in a well-sealed airtight container, for up to 2 or 3 days.
The eggplant cream can be frozen and should be thawed in the refrigerator overnight before use.
You can prepare the eggplant cream in the same way, using other spices, such as paprika, or even cumin, which pair perfectly with eggplants.
The eggplant cream can be used to make bruschetta, or it can also be an excellent base for a first course of pasta or rice, perhaps enriched with fried eggplant cubes or those cooked in an air fryer.

