name:
Stuffed Peppers Without Meat
ingredients:
Green peppers: 2
Bread: 3.3cups(200 g)- breadcrumbs
Provola cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to grate)
Taggiasca olives: 1.8oz(50 g)- pitted
Salted capers: 1tbsp(15 g)
Eggs: 2
Basil: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Breadcrumbs: ⅛cup(20 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2tbsp(10 g)- (to be grated)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you love peppers, you will certainly also enjoy stuffed peppers ... in all their variations! Here we present the recipe for stuffed peppers without meat , an equally delicious vegetarian alternative. The rich filling with a Mediterranean flavor is made with bread crumbs, capers, olives, and stringy cheese, a simple and genuine mix but incredibly appetizing!
Serve the stuffed peppers without meat as a main course for a dinner with friends or enjoy them as a one-dish meal with a side salad... you'll taste the goodness of peppers even in this version!
Here are other delicious recipes for vegetarian stuffed peppers :
To prepare the stuffed peppers without meat, first remove the crust from the bread and cut the crumb into cubes. Transfer the bread to a food processor along with the basil leaves and parsley .
Add the eggs and blend to obtain a homogeneous mixture. At this point, add the desalted capers .
Also add the olives , grated Parmigiano Reggiano , and a pinch of salt .
Finally, add the provolone cheese cut into small cubes . Mix well to combine everything .
Move on to the peppers: cut them in half , then trim the edges and remove seeds and internal filaments . Place the peppers in a baking dish large enough to hold them and stuff them with the filling .
Sprinkle the top with breadcrumbs and drizzle with a little olive oil , then also add the grated cheese .
Cover the baking dish with aluminum foil and bake in a static oven at 375°F for 30 minutes, then remove the foil and continue baking at 410°F in grill mode for another 10 minutes. Remove from the oven and garnish with fresh parsley to taste . Your stuffed peppers without meat are ready to be served !
The stuffed peppers without meat can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you wish, you can enrich the filling with pine nuts for a slightly crunchy note.
Do not throw away the bread crust, but use it to make breadcrumbs, for example!

