name:
Pasta with clams, shrimp, and samphire
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Clams: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Shrimps: 10.6oz(300 g)- (to clean)
Sea asparagus: 3.5oz(100 g)- (samphire)
Yellow cherry tomatoes: 1cup(150 g)
White wine: ½cup(120 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
If you love first courses with seafood, the pasta with clams, shrimp, and samphire is the perfect recipe to bring all the aromas and flavors of the Mediterranean to your table. In this simple yet refined preparation, linguine intertwine with the sweetness of shrimp, the natural savoriness of clams, and the unique taste of samphire, also known as sea asparagus . We will guide you step-by-step to create a balanced dish , flavorful and with an interesting nutritional profile.
The samphire , typical of coastal areas and harvested in spring and summer, adds an irresistible marine touch to your pasta without the need to overdo it with salt. To complete it all, yellow cherry tomatoes for a touch of color and a pinch of fresh chili for a lively note. Perfect for a summer lunch , the pasta with clams, shrimp, and samphire is a Mediterranean recipe with which you can surprise your guests thanks to the use of an unusual and gourmet ingredient like sea asparagus.
Discover also other variations of pasta with clams that combine vegetables with seafood:
To prepare pasta with clams, shrimp, and samphire, first, let the clams purge in plenty of salted water for a couple of hours, changing the water every half hour, to remove any sand residues . Once purged, heat the olive oil in a pan with a clove of garlic , then add the clams and a chili pepper.
When the oil begins to sizzle, deglaze with the white wine and let the alcohol evaporate, then cover with a lid and let the clams open over high heat ; it will take about 5 minutes.
Once opened, drain the clams through a strainer to collect the cooking water . Shell half of them and set aside along with the whole ones . In another pot, bring water to a boil, then add the samphire .
Blanch for about a minute , then drain, keeping the water aside, which you'll use to cook the pasta . Wash and halve the cherry tomatoes .
In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil, then add the cherry tomatoes and season with the clam cooking water . Cook for 4-5 minutes.
Now cook the linguine al dente in boiling water, following the time indicated on the package . Meanwhile, clean the shrimp by removing the head, shell, and vein . When the pasta is ready, drain it directly into the pan with the cherry tomatoes .
Add the samphire , shrimp , and shelled clams .
Pour in a ladle of cooking water and briefly toss to combine . Serve your pasta with clams, shrimp, and samphire immediately, finishing with a sprinkle of fresh chopped parsley and the shelled clams set aside !
We recommend consuming the pasta with clams, shrimp, and samphire right away.
If you liked the idea of using samphire as an ingredient for pasta, don't miss our recipe for Spaghetti with sea asparagus !

