name:
Rice Salad with Pesto and Citrus
ingredients:
Ribe rice: 2cups(400 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Basil: 1.67cups(35 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 7tbsp(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)- (to grate)
Pine nuts: 1 ½tbsp(15 g)
Orange peel: 1
Lemon peel: 1
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Yellow zucchini (summer squash): 1 ½cup(200 g)
Tuna in oil: 6.3oz(180 g)- fillets (drained weight)
Mozzarelline ciliegine cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Black olives: 1.8oz(50 g)- from Sardinia, pitted

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + resting time in the fridge (at least 30 min.)

instructions:
Imagine sinking your fork into a colorful mix of crunchy yellow zucchini, juicy cherry tomatoes, savory olives, tender tuna, and fresh mozzarella balls, all wrapped in a citrusy pesto that smells like sunshine and lightness.... it's the rice salad with pesto and citrus , the dish that cannot be missing from your summer table!
This tasty twist on the classic rice salad is the perfect meeting of taste and creativity, thanks to the pesto enriched with orange and lemon zest, which enhances every ingredient with simplicity. With a few simple steps and seasonal ingredients, you'll bring a light and appetizing one-dish meal to the table! Ideal to enjoy cold for an office lunch, a picnic, or a buffet, the rice salad with pesto and citrus will win everyone over at the first taste. Discover also these rice salad recipes :
To prepare the rice salad with pesto and citrus, start with the pesto: in the blender jar, add the basil leaves that you have washed and gently dried , then add the oil and grated cheese .
Also add the pine nuts and the grated zest of the lemon and orange .
Blend in short bursts until you get a creamy mixture . Transfer the pesto to a large bowl and set aside. Move on to the dressing: trim the yellow zucchini and cut them into 1/2-inch (approximately 1.27 cm) cubes .
Add the zucchini to the bowl with the pesto , along with the cherry tomatoes cut into quarters and the pitted olives .
Also add the slightly crumbled tuna fillets and the cherry-sized mozzarella balls . Mix and let rest in the refrigerator for at least half an hour . Meanwhile, cook the rice in salted boiling water.
Drain the rice al dente and let it cool, then transfer it to a large bowl . Add the now well-chilled dressing and mix well to combine everything. Serve your rice salad with pesto and citrus immediately or let it chill in the refrigerator for another half hour !
You can store the rice salad with pesto and citrus for 3 days in the refrigerator, in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap.
You can enrich your rice salad with pesto and citrus with corn and carrots, for example, or with fresh fruit for an even more original touch! If you wish, you can add a few mint leaves.
Yellow zucchini are sweet and delicate, ideal to eat raw, but if you prefer, you can quickly sauté them in a pan.

