name:
Cold pasta with mozzarella and grilled eggplant
ingredients:
Pennoni rigati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Eggplant: 2
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 7oz(200 g)
Black olives: 0.3cup(50 g)- pitted
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The cold pasta with mozzarella and grilled eggplant is a simple yet winning idea for the beautiful season, the perfect time for fresh, light, and flavorful dishes! This recipe, in fact, is ideal if you're looking for a perfect single dish for outdoor lunches, picnics, or quick dinners. The eggplants, grilled until tender and flavorful, pair perfectly with the freshness of mozzarella and cherry tomatoes , creating a balance of Mediterranean flavors that everyone agrees on. You can't miss the scent of fresh basil , olives , and a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil, for a genuine and appetizing result.
The cold pasta with mozzarella and grilled eggplant is also very versatile: you can prepare it in advance, store it in the fridge, and eat it whenever you like. A summer first course that combines practicality and goodness, ideal to personalize according to your tastes!
Also try these variations of cold pasta with eggplants:
To prepare the cold pasta with mozzarella and grilled eggplant, start with the eggplants: after removing the stem , slice them about 1/8 to 3/16 inch thick . Gradually place them on a well-heated grill .
When the first grill marks begin to appear, turn them and let them grill a bit more ; if you want to create a criss-cross pattern, before flipping them, turn them in the opposite direction on the same side . When they're ready, cut them into pieces about 3/4 inch .
At this point, halve the cherry tomatoes and place them in a bowl . Meanwhile, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the pasta al dente .
Drain the pasta in a bowl, season with oil and let it cool. Then add the tomatoes and grilled eggplant .
Add the halved garlic, with the central part removed , basil leaves , and mozzarella torn by hand .
Complete with the olives , then adjust with salt and pepper ,
Season again with a drizzle of oil and mix . You can enjoy your cold pasta with mozzarella and grilled eggplant right away or let it marinate in the refrigerator for at least half an hour !
The cold pasta with mozzarella and grilled eggplant can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days in an airtight container. If you plan to prepare it in advance and enjoy it in the following days, we recommend adding the cherry tomatoes at the last moment because they tend to become acidic.
You can further enrich the cold pasta with mozzarella and grilled eggplant by adding fennel or fruit, such as peaches for example!

