name:
Gluten-free spaghetti with yellow cherry tomato sauce, capers, and anchovies
ingredients:
Gluten-free Spaghetti pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Capers in oil: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Anchovies: 1.75oz(50 g)
Parsley: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Gluten free breadcrumbs: 6 ½tbsp(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Yellow cherry tomatoes: 2cups(300 g)
Shallot: 1
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.7tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Gluten-free spaghetti with yellow cherry tomato sauce, capers, and anchovies is a lively and flavorful first course. A quick and very easy recipe to make, perfect for those looking for a tasty alternative to the classic spaghetti with tomato sauce and who do not want to give up the pleasure of good food, even while following a gluten-free diet.
The yellow tomatoes create an enveloping and velvety cream, capable of perfectly binding the spaghetti, which contrasts with the savory taste of the capers and anchovies. The crunchy touch is given by the toasted breadcrumbs, which adds an irresistible rustic note.
Gluten-free spaghetti with yellow cherry tomato sauce, capers, and anchovies is ideal when you crave a tasty pasta dish that is quick to prepare but leaves a definite impression!
If you're looking for other gluten-free pasta recipes, also try:
To prepare the gluten-free spaghetti with yellow cherry tomato sauce, capers, and anchovies, first put the breadcrumbs in a pan, add the garlic, oil , and salt . Toast over medium heat until crispy and golden .
Cut the cherry tomatoes in half and slice the shallot. In a pan, heat the oil , add the shallot and let it turn golden for a few minutes. Then add the cherry tomatoes .
Season with salt , pour in the water and cook over low heat for 10 minutes. Once cooked, blend with an immersion blender to obtain a smooth cream .
To make it even smoother, strain it through a sieve into a pan . At this point, cook the spaghetti in plenty of salted water and drain it directly into the pan .
Add the capers , chopped anchovies , and chopped parsley .
Mix , plate up and garnish with the toasted breadcrumbs . Your gluten-free spaghetti with yellow cherry tomato sauce, capers, and anchovies is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the gluten-free spaghetti with yellow cherry tomato sauce, capers, and anchovies immediately after preparation.
If you prefer, you can replace the anchovies with grated bottarga or well-drained tuna fillets in oil. Alternatively, you can enrich the dish with Taggiasca olives and a sprinkle of grated salted ricotta!

