name:
Banana and Chocolate Cake
ingredients:
Bananas: 3
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)
Eggs: 4
Sugar: ½cup(120 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(220 g)
Sunflower seed oil: ½cup(120 g)
Baking powder: 1bag
Salt: 1pinch
Lemon peel: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
Banana and Chocolate Cake is a soft and delicious dessert, perfect to enjoy at breakfast, as a snack, or as a treat at the end of a meal. The combination of the intense sweetness of ripe bananas and the enveloping goodness of dark chocolate creates a mix of flavors that wins you over at the first bite, with an inviting aroma that fills the kitchen during baking!
A simple and genuine recipe, ideal for using overripe bananas and turning them into a delicious banana cake with guaranteed success. It's very easy to make: just mash the bananas, mix them with the other ingredients, and bake... et voilà, the result will be a cake that's soft and perfectly moist, which will delight both adults and children.
Serve it as is or accompany it with a scoop of ice cream or a dollop of whipped cream: the banana and chocolate cake is always a winning choice!
If you love banana desserts , try these recipes too:
Recipe by Michela Carta
To prepare the banana and chocolate cake, you will need to use two mashed bananas inside and one as decoration. Peel two of the bananas and mash them with a potato masher or a fork until you obtain a batter .

Pour the whole eggs into a large bowl , add the sugar , and start mixing the ingredients with an electric whisk until the mixture is light, fluffy, and frothy .
After achieving the right consistency , add the previously mashed banana pulp and mix it into the batter . Then add the previously sifted flour .
After stirring , add the zest of one lemon and mix again .
Next, add a pinch of salt and the vegetable oil , continuing to mix with the electric whisk .

Add the previously sifted baking powder and mix it into the batter . Then start cutting the dark chocolate into pieces, or if you prefer, use chocolate chips .
When you have your chocolate pieces, add them to the batter, setting aside a couple of handfuls . Mix one last time and pour the batter into a 9.5-inch diameter pan lined with parchment paper or buttered and floured .
Peel the banana set aside and cut it into three parts lengthwise , then arrange it on the surface of the cake .

Finally, add some chocolate pieces and bake the cake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 35 minutes . Always do the toothpick test before removing the cake from the oven, as cooking times may vary slightly depending on the oven. The banana and chocolate cake is ready, just let it cool before removing it from the mold and serving.

The banana and chocolate cake can be stored at room temperature under a glass dome for 2-3 days.
It is possible to freeze the cake after baking, already portioned.

Milk chocolate can be used instead of dark chocolate.


