name:
Risotto with mussels, fava beans, and pecorino
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
White wine: 2oz(60 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (to clean)
Parsley: to taste- stems
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fava beans: 2cups(300 g)- (already shelled)
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 g)
Lemon peel: to taste
Mint: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: ½tsp(3 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Risotto with mussels, fava beans, and pecorino is a refined first course that plays on a balance between different contrasts: sea and land, sweetness and savoriness, creaminess and freshness. Fava beans and pecorino form an inseparable duo in spring menus, to which in this case, mussels are added, completing the dish with the intense flavor of seafood. Mint and lemon zest, on the other hand, give it an irresistible aromatic note.
Ideal for a formal dinner or a Sunday lunch, risotto with mussels, fava beans, and pecorino is a delicious recipe that hides a deeply Mediterranean soul... we are sure it will appeal to both gourmet guests and more traditional ones!
Also discover these delicious variations of risotto with mussels:


To prepare risotto with mussels, fava beans, and pecorino, first, focus on cleaning the mussels : Use the back of a knife or a scrub pad to remove impurities from the shell, then pull off the beard . Rinse thoroughly under running water until the water is clean. In a pan, flavor a little oil with parsley stems and garlic , then add the mussels .
Cover with a lid and cook over high heat for a few minutes until the shells start to open. Remove the mussels from the pan as they open to avoid overcooking . Strain their water through a fine mesh sieve and set aside.
Shell the mussels while they are still warm and cover them with a few tablespoons of their cooking water to prevent them from drying out . Meanwhile, cook the fava beans in boiling water for about 3 minutes .
Drain them and immediately immerse in ice water , then peel them one by one . In the same water where you cooked the fava beans, add a few mussel shells to make a broth that will be needed for cooking the risotto. Keep it warm.
Proceed to cook the risotto: pour the rice into a pot and toast it dry until the grains become translucent and warm to the touch. Deglaze with white wine and let the alcohol evaporate completely. Cook the rice by adding a ladle of hot broth at a time, filtering it through a sieve .
Meanwhile, season the fava beans with oil , salt, pepper , and grated lemon zest .
Flavor with lemon juice and a few mint leaves . Stir everything together .
When the rice is halfway cooked, pour in 3-4 tablespoons of mussel water , being careful to adjust the amount according to the risotto's saltiness. Once the rice is al dente, remove the pot from the heat and add a tablespoon of mussel water , the mussels (reserving some for plating), and half of the fava beans .
Stir in the butter , a drizzle of oil , grated Parmesan, and pecorino .
Mix well and plate. Finish with the reserved mussels and fava beans, a drizzle of oil, and a few mint leaves . Your risotto with mussels, fava beans, and pecorino is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the risotto with mussels, fava beans, and pecorino immediately; if there are leftovers, you can store it in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to one day.
If you don't have fava beans or they are out of season, you can replace them with peas.
For a richer version, you can add clams or peeled shrimp to the mussels!

