name:
Beetroot Pasta on Spinach and Speck Cream
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Crescenza cheese: 1.67cups(200 g)
Speck: 1.4oz(40 g)- sliced
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Spinach: 16.7cups(500 g)
Shallot: 1.5oz(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Beets: 3.5oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
If you're looking for a refined first course that's easy to make, the beetroot pasta on spinach and crispy speck cream is the perfect recipe for you. A striking dish with intense and vibrant colors, ideal for a special dinner but simple enough to prepare during the week.
The beetroot linguine pairs with the delicacy of crescenza cheese, the sweetness of fresh spinach, and the bold flavor of crispy speck, offering an irresistible contrast of flavors and textures. Thanks to the velvety creams that accompany the pasta, each bite is a little masterpiece of taste.
Preparing beetroot pasta on spinach and speck cream is easier than you think: just a few genuine ingredients and some tricks to get a chef-worthy result. The perfect recipe for those who love creative cooking!
Let yourself be inspired by other pasta recipes with beetroot:
To prepare beetroot pasta on spinach and speck cream, start with the speck: place the slices in a cold pan, turn on medium heat, and cook for 15 minutes , until the speck is colored and crispy . Let cool and remove it from the pan. Clean and slice a shallot .
Dab the pan from the excess oil, then add a drizzle of oil, the sliced shallot , and salt .
Sauté over medium-low heat until the shallot is soft and clear, it will take about 10 minutes. Then remove half of the cooked shallot , which will be used for the beetroots, and add the spinach here . Salt and cook over medium-low heat until wilted, it will take 3-4 minutes .
Blend the spinach with an immersion blender, adding pepper and oil . Set aside the resulting cream .
Peel the beetroot and cut it into 1.5 cm (0.6 inch) cubes . Put half of the stewed shallot back in the pan , then add the beetroot cubes .
Salt and brown well. Add a couple of ladles of boiling water , cover with the lid , and cook until done, about 40 minutes.
Once the beetroot is cooked , place it in a beaker and blend it with an immersion blender to obtain a smooth cream .
Now cook the linguine in plenty of boiling salted water for the time indicated on the package . Pour the crescenza cheese into a beaker and add 2 ladles of pasta cooking water .
Blend with an immersion blender to have a velvety cream , then season with salt and oil. Transfer the beetroot cream to a pan to warm it up .
Drain the linguine al dente here and mix thoroughly to combine the dressing . Everything is ready to serve: pour the spinach cream into a deep plate, then add the crescenza cream .
Now coarsely crumble the crispy speck and distribute the crumbs on the plate . The beetroot pasta on spinach and speck cream is ready !
We recommend consuming the beetroot pasta on spinach and speck cream immediately.
You can prepare the beetroot cream and spinach cream in advance and store them in the refrigerator for 1-2 days at most.
If you prefer, you can use pre-cooked beetroot to shorten the cooking time.

