name:
Shrimp Tartare with Coconut Milk and Mango
ingredients:
Shrimps: 14oz(400 g)
Coconut milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Mango: 1cup(200 g)- ripe
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Coriander: to taste
Lime peel: to taste
Lime juice: 2tsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ½tbsp(6 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
If you're looking for an elegant and light appetizer for summer, the raw shrimp with coconut milk and mango is the perfect choice. In just a few minutes, you can prepare a fresh dish, colorful and with an exotic flavor, ideal for starting a special dinner or surprising your guests with something different from the usual.
The raw red shrimp, cut in half and served with ripe mango cubes, pairs perfectly with the delicacy of coconut milk and the liveliness of fresh chili. The dish is completed with grated lime zest and a few leaves of coriander or mint, for a truly irresistible aromatic contrast. Perfect for those who love refined flavors and tropical combinations , this no-cook appetizer is also a great idea for those who follow a light diet but do not want to give up taste.
Discover other tasty ways to enjoy raw shrimp :
To prepare the raw shrimp with coconut milk and mango, peel the mango and slice it , then cut these slices into cubes about 1/2 inch .
Cut the chili pepper in half lengthwise and remove the seeds , then chop it . Also chop the coriander stem .
Transfer the mango cubes into a bowl and season them with the chili pepper , coriander , and a drizzle of oil . Salt and pepper to taste.
Flavor with grated lime zest , mix well and store in the refrigerator. In another bowl, pour the coconut milk and the lime juice
Also add the extra virgin olive oil and a pinch of salt, then emulsify and keep it fresh . Now clean the shrimp : remove the head, extract the shell and remove the intestine .
Cut the shrimp in half lengthwise and arrange them on a plate, then add the mango cubes and the coconut milk sauce

Finish with fresh coriander leaves and some grated lime zest . Serve immediately your raw shrimp with coconut milk and mango !
We recommend consuming the raw shrimp with coconut milk and mango immediately.
As an alternative to coriander, you can use mint.
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not fully cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze for at least 96 hours at -0.4 degrees Fahrenheit in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, as per Ministry of Health guidelines .

