name:
Melon Namelaka
ingredients:
Cantaloupe: 10.6oz(300 g)- (to be cleaned)
White chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.1cups(250 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.5oz(15 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Almonds: 1cup(150 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)
Mint: 4leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Note + chilling time in the fridge (6 h)

instructions:
If you are looking for a dessert that wins over with lightness, elegance, and a truly summery taste, the melon namelaka is the perfect choice. A creamy, fresh, and surprising spoon dessert that enhances all the fragrance and taste of melon, the symbol fruit of the beautiful season. It's simple to prepare, but the final result is like from a pastry shop: a velvety cream that combines white chocolate, cream, and melon for a perfect balance between sweetness and freshness. To top it all off, crispy praline almonds and fresh mint add an irresistible aromatic touch.
This summer variant of the Namelaka is ideal to serve in elegant single portions, as a dessert at the end of a meal at summer dinners, or for a special snack that enhances seasonal fruit. With a few ingredients and a little patience for chilling in the fridge, you will achieve a light and eye-catching melon namelaka, perfect for dazzling your guests.
Discover here other melon desserts for the summer:
To prepare the melon namelaka, first clean the melon: cut off the rind and remove the central seeds . Cut the flesh into cubes .
Transfer the melon into a saucepan and add the sugar , then cook over medium heat for about 10 minutes. After this time, blend the cooked pulp with an immersion blender to obtain a smooth sauce .
Soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for 10 minutes . In a saucepan, heat the cream with the addition of vanilla extract .
Once hot, turn off the heat and add the white chocolate pieces . Stir and also incorporate the melon pulp .
Finally, add the drained and squeezed gelatin . Stir with the whisk until completely dissolved .
Transfer the cream to a shallow bowl and let it cool, then cover with cling film in contact . Place in the fridge for 6 hours. In the meantime, prepare the praline almonds: take a pan, preferably steel, and pour in the sugar and almonds .
Cover with water , turn on the heat to medium-low, and start stirring : at first, the water and sugar mixture will be very liquid, then it will start to boil and finally crystallize forming a coating around the almonds .
At this point, slightly lower the flame and continue stirring until the sugar starts to caramelize and take on a dark amber color . Pour the almonds onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and let them cool. After the resting hours in the fridge, retrieve the cream and transfer it to a piping bag with a smooth nozzle .
Distribute dollops of cream on the serving plate and garnish with praline almonds and julienne mint. Your melon namelaka is ready to be enjoyed !
The melon namelaka can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
You can replace the almonds with hazelnuts or pistachios to vary the caramelized nuts to your liking.

