name:
Meringue with Custard and Peaches
ingredients:
Sugar: 2cups(400 g)
Egg whites: ¾cup(200 g)- (approximately 5 egg whites)
Lemon peel: 1
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Egg yolks: 3.5oz(100 g)- (approximately 5 yolks)
Cornstarch: 3tbsp(25 g)
Rice starch: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Orange peel: 1
Vanilla bean: 1
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Peach: 3 ½cups(500 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Brown sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 1 ¼cup(200 g)- in flakes
Mint: 18leaves

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 4 h 15 min
Makes: 18 pieces

instructions:
If you are looking for an elegant and scenic dessert to conclude your summer dinners, the meringue with custard and peaches is the perfect choice. Light, delicate, and beautiful to see, this single-serving version of the classic meringue enhances all the taste and freshness of seasonal fruits.
The meringues , crunchy on the outside and slightly soft inside, hold a custard scented with citrus and cinnamon, topped with caramelized peaches and dark chocolate shavings. A refined and harmonious combination, ideal for impressing your guests with a summer dessert that combines tradition and creativity.
Try other desserts based on meringues:
To prepare the meringue with custard and peaches, pour the egg whites, sugar , and grated lemon zest into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk. Whip at high speed until the mixture is stable and frothy .
With two tablespoons, take a small portion of the mixture to create spheres and place them on a baking sheet with parchment paper . With the back of a spoon, make a central indentation by gently pressing down .
In total, you will get 18; divide them into 2 baking sheets. Bake in a preheated static oven at 194°F for 4 hours . While the meringues are baking, prepare the custard: in a saucepan, heat the milk flavored with lemon zest, orange zest, cinnamon, and the vanilla bean emptied of seeds . In a separate bowl, add the vanilla seeds and granulated sugar .
Add the egg yolks , mix , and add the rice starch and corn starch . Mix again to obtain a homogeneous batter.
Finally, pour the now hot milk into the bowl, straining it through a sieve . Stir immediately and return to the saucepan on the stove .
Stir and cook until the custard has thickened , then transfer it to a baking dish, let it cool, then cover with cling film in contact and refrigerate for 3 hours . Meanwhile, take care of the meringue garnish: take a peach, cut it in half, remove the central pit, and cut into 12 slices .
In a non-stick pan, melt some brown sugar with the butter , add the peaches and sauté over medium heat for 5 minutes .
Once the meringues are ready, take them out of the oven and let them cool slightly . Transfer the custard into a piping bag and pipe some in the center .
Garnish the meringues with the caramelized peaches , chocolate shavings , and mint leaves. Serve the meringues with custard and peaches immediately .
Once the dessert is assembled, it is recommended to consume it within a few hours.
The custard can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
The meringue can be stored for a long time, as long as it does not absorb moisture: we recommend storing them at room temperature, under a glass dome or preferably in a tin box, for a couple of weeks.
If you want to prepare them in advance, bake the meringues the day before and store them in a tin box: they will remain perfect and ready to be filled at the last moment.

