name:
Eggplants in Air Fryer
ingredients:
Eggplant: 2
Parsley: to taste
Basil: 5leaves
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Eggplants in air fryer are a light and flavorful side dish, perfect for accompanying meat or fish dishes, or simply enjoying with a slice of crusty bread. In this lighter version, the eggplants become irresistible: crispy on the outside, soft on the inside, with a drizzle of oil and all the taste of simplicity.
An easy and quick recipe, ideal for those who want to bring something good and genuine to the table without giving up lightness. Thanks to the air fryer, you achieve perfect cooking with very little oil: a healthier but equally tasty alternative to classic frying or typical mushroom-style eggplants !
Whether it's for a quick lunch, a summer dinner, or a tasty appetizer, the eggplants in the air fryer will win everyone over at the first bite... a versatile recipe accessible to everyone, smelling of summer and bringing together both adults and kids!
Discover our air fryer recipes:
Recipe by Michela Carta.
To prepare the eggplants in the air fryer, start by washing the eggplants. Then place them on a cutting board and remove the ends . Slice the eggplants , then cut them into sticks, and finally start cutting into cubes of about 0.4 inches .
Once you have your cubes , transfer them into a bowl . Finely chop basil, parsley, and garlic .
Pour the freshly prepared mixture into the bowl with the eggplants . Then add a pinch of salt and mix everything well inside the bowl .
Then arrange the eggplants in the air fryer basket, you can use parchment paper, but only if you have the perforated kind , otherwise, you can skip it. (We used a fryer with a 6.5-liter capacity). Once the eggplants are placed inside the basket, spray some oil or drizzle some oil over them .
Then cook the eggplants at 392°F for about 15 minutes, making sure to check them halfway through the cooking process and stir if necessary. The times may vary slightly depending on the fryer and the size of the eggplants, assess the browning, and once browned, they will be ready . Transfer to a small bowl and serve your eggplants in the air fryer .
The eggplants in the air fryer can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap, for up to 2-3 days. They can be frozen once cooked. When needed, they can be thawed in the fridge or reheated directly from frozen in the fryer.
The eggplants in the air fryer can be prepared in the same way using paprika, turmeric, oregano, or preferred seasonings, perfect even with garlic powder, and if you like it spicy, you can add powdered chili.
If you want slightly rustic eggplants, you can add two tablespoons of semolina, breadcrumbs, or two tablespoons of cornmeal, which will make the surface golden and slightly crispy.


