name:
Stuffed Eggs with Pesto
ingredients:
Eggs: 4
Fine salt: to taste
Basil: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 7 ½tbsp(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- (to grate)
Pecorino cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- (to grate)
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- (to be grated)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 8 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Stuffed eggs with pesto are a tasty, quick, and very easy appetizer to prepare. It's a variation of the classic boiled eggs , but here the yolk is combined with pesto to create a creamy, rich, and aromatic filling, with the egg white serving as the perfect container.
It's an impressive recipe that requires minimal effort, ideal for both informal lunches and special occasions, such as an Easter lunch. You can prepare the eggs in advance and have them ready to serve, perhaps decorating them at the last minute with a few fresh basil leaves or a light sprinkle of cheese. Try the stuffed eggs with pesto and let yourself be surprised by the simplicity that meets taste!
If you're looking for other stuffed egg recipes, also try:

To prepare the stuffed eggs with pesto, first place the eggs in a pot, cover them with cold water , and add the salt . Bring to a boil and from that point, cook for 8 minutes. In the meantime, focus on the pesto: place the basil in a container .
Add the pine nuts , garlic , the grated Parmesan and pecorino cheese .
Finally, add the olive oil and blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture ; set aside. Once cooked, put the boiled eggs in cold water, then roll them on the workbench applying slight pressure to crack the shell in multiple points .
Peel them and cut them in half , then gently remove the yolks and place them in a bowl.
Smash the yolks with a fork , then add the pesto and mix well to combine evenly. Transfer everything into a piping bag fitted with a star nozzle .
Fill the egg whites with the pesto mixture and finish with a sprinkle of grated Parmesan cheese . Your stuffed eggs with pesto are ready to be served !
The stuffed eggs with pesto can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container or well-covered with plastic wrap, for 2 days. Add the Parmesan cheese only before serving.
To peel the eggs more easily, you can add a bit of vinegar to the water along with the salt.
For a scenic effect, you can decorate the eggs with toasted seeds or fresh herbs: an extra touch that makes a difference, both in taste and presentation!
If you wish to try other variations, you can replace part of the pesto with well-drained and finely chopped tuna; alternatively, you can opt for a version with red pesto, made with sun-dried tomatoes .

