name:
Asparagus Lasagna
ingredients:
Thin egg Lasagne pasta: 10.6oz(300 g)
Asparagus: 1.5lbs(700 g)- (to clean)
Mozzarella cheese: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to be grated)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Milk: 3cups(700 g)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(70 g)
Thyme: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Asparagus lasagna is a delicious seasonal alternative to the classic Bolognese lasagna . The egg pasta sheets meet the crunchy note of asparagus and the creaminess of béchamel sauce , with the added melted touch of mozzarella. The result is a first course perfect for a family lunch or a dinner with friends where you want to impress with something different from the usual offerings, bringing to the table a winning mix of taste and color.
We recommend serving the asparagus lasagna piping hot to best appreciate its creaminess and aroma, but know that the next day, reheated in the oven, they'll be even tastier... if there are any portions left!
If you liked the asparagus lasagna, don't miss out on these variations:
To prepare the asparagus lasagna, first focus on cleaning the asparagus: remove the woodiest part and cut the stalks into diamond shapes , leaving the tips intact. In a pan, heat a drizzle of olive oil, then add the asparagus stalks .
Season with salt and cook for 8 minutes over medium heat. Add the tips and continue cooking for another 2 minutes. Turn off the heat and set aside. Now focus on preparing the béchamel sauce: heat the milk in a saucepan while melting the butter in another saucepan over low heat .
Add the flour and stir vigorously to prevent lumps from forming . Season with salt and continue stirring until a golden mixture forms, the roux.
At this point, pour in the hot milk , flavor with nutmeg and thyme , and continue to cook over low heat until the desired consistency is achieved. It will take 5-6 minutes to reach a medium density.
Once the béchamel sauce is ready , spread a few spoonfuls on the bottom of a 10x7 inch baking dish , then lay the pasta sheets .
Cover the sheets with the béchamel sauce, then add the asparagus , shredded mozzarella , and grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese .
Continue forming layers in this way until all ingredients are used up . Bake in a static oven at 350°F for 20 minutes, then turn on the grill at 400°F and continue cooking for 5 minutes . Your asparagus lasagna is ready to be enjoyed !
Asparagus lasagna can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 2 days.
You can customize your asparagus lasagna in many different ways, for example, using other cheeses like stracchino or scamorza instead of mozzarella.
For a heartier version, you can add sliced hard-boiled eggs or diced cooked ham or speck between the layers.

