name:
Candy cane twist cookies
ingredients:
Almond flour: 1.8cups(170 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(20 g)
Butter: 6oz(170 g)- cold
Powdered sugar: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (approximately 1)
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp
Powdered ginger: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 28 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the dough

instructions:
They are a Christmas icon, and their image has always been associated with holiday sweets for children: they are candy cane twists, typical red and white striped peppermint or cinnamon-flavored candy sticks that cannot be missing from your DIY Christmas baskets and also in the stocking of Befana on the morning of January 6th. Inspired by these candies, we created candy cane twist cookies, fragrant and aromatic cookies with pleasantly spiced bi-color shortbread, like all traditional Christmas cookies, from the famous gingerbread men to the tasty and fragrant speculoos . Candy cane twist cookies are dedicated to everyone looking for new ideas to enrich the holiday table and to those who want to make delicious gifts by hand to offer to loved ones on the most anticipated day of the year!
To make the candy cane twist cookies, pour 230 grams (approximately 2 cups) of flour , the almond flour , and the cold butter in pieces into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment.
Run the machine to get a sandy dough, then add the powdered sugar and knead for about 1 minute. Add the lightly beaten egg and work the dough until you get a soft and smooth consistency .
Pour the obtained shortcrust dough onto the work surface and knead it to get a homogeneous dough. Divide the dough into two equal parts using a scraper or a knife (8-9).
Place the two doughs in separate bowls: in one, add the remaining 20 grams of flour and the ground ginger and mix to combine; in the second, add the cocoa and cinnamon .
and mix it as the previous one . Now that the doughs are ready , flatten them slightly, wrap them in plastic wrap , and let them rest in the refrigerator for at least an hour (or more).
After the resting time, take the doughs, lightly flour the work surface, and form the same number of logs from both doughs, about 0.5 cm (approximately 3/16 inch) thick . Use a scraper to cut each log into strips about 15 cm (approximately 6 inches) long (17-18).
both white and black . Place the logs side by side on a tray and let them rest again for about 10 minutes in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap without pressing them. They need to be very cold before continuing to work on them. After the necessary time has passed, take the logs, place a cocoa strip next to a white one and with a brush, slightly wet one of the two with water ; then try to twist the two sticks together .
and without pressing, complete the twisted log ; gradually place the bi-color logs on a tray and put them back in the fridge for another 10 minutes. This step also helps make the logs more workable. After the resting time, take the bi-color logs and lengthen the ends of the log by working with your hands to blend the white and black doughs together . The log should be approximately 1.5 cm (about 5/8 inch) in diameter, cut off the ends with a knife .
Bend one side to form the classic Christmas candy sticks . Place on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 15 minutes on the middle rack. Once cooked, remove the candy cane twist cookies from the oven and let them cool completely before serving, giving them as gifts, or hanging them on the tree, perhaps with a red ribbon!
The candy cane twist cookies keep in a tin box for a week. You can freeze the raw dough.
To make it easier to work with the shortcrust dough, you can prepare it 24 hours in advance and keep it in the fridge covered with plastic wrap. Between each step, always let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 10-15 minutes for greater uniformity of the doughs during baking.

