name:
Gratinated Paccheri with Ricotta and Zucchini Flowers
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Zucchini flowers: 7oz(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Eggs: 1
Anchovies in oil: 2fillets
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Béchamel sauce: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the gratinated paccheri with ricotta and zucchini flowers, first place a pot of salted water on the stove to cook the pasta. Then clean the zucchini flowers by removing the stems and pistils . In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil and melt 2 anchovy fillets in oil .
Add the zucchini flowers , season with salt and pepper, and cook for a few minutes over medium heat .
Meanwhile, the water will have come to a boil, so add salt and cook the paccheri for about 4 minutes . Drain the paccheri and transfer them to a baking dish , then dress them with some oil to prevent them from sticking .
Set aside and prepare the ricotta cream: in a bowl, combine the ricotta, grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP , egg , salt, and pepper .
Mix the ingredients , then add the zucchini flowers and mix again . For convenience, you can transfer the ricotta cream into a piping bag without a nozzle.
Line a baking tray with parchment paper and place the paccheri upright, side by side , then fill each one with the filling . Spread the surface with the bechamel .
Sprinkle with grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 15 minutes, then turn on the grill and cook for another 2-3 minutes . When they are golden, remove from the oven and serve your gratinated paccheri with ricotta and zucchini flowers !
It's recommended to consume the gratinated paccheri with ricotta and zucchini flowers immediately. If necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
Instead of using a piping bag, you can use a teaspoon to fill the paccheri; it will just require a bit more patience!

