name:
Farro salad with primosale cheese, blackberries, and anchovies
ingredients:
Pearled farro: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Anchovies: 12fillets- sweets from the Cantabrian Sea, low in salt
Primosale cheese: 5.25oz(150 g)
Blackberries: ½cup(100 g)
Red wine vinegar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Chives: to taste
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Discover a different kind of summer salad, fresh and surprising: the farro salad with primosale cheese, blackberries, and anchovies is the perfect dish to impress at the table with unusual yet perfectly balanced flavors. The rustic taste of farro pairs with the delicate freshness of Homemade Primosale and the sweet tartness of the blackberries. The dish is completed with Cantabrian Sea anchovies, a prized ingredient full of personality that adds an intense yet harmonious marine note. The result is a unique balance, combining different textures and vibrant colors in a single course. The farro salad with primosale cheese, blackberries, and anchovies is ideal to serve cold on hotter days, for a light lunch, a picnic outdoors, or a gourmet appetizer.
Here are more fresh and original ideas to reinvent farro salad:
To prepare the farro salad with primosale cheese, blackberries, and anchovies, bring salted water to a boil and cook the farro for the time indicated on the package; we used pearled farro which cooks in about 20 minutes . Slice the primosale cheese .
From these slices, cut cubes and set aside. Wash and halve the blackberries , then chop the chives .
Once cooked, drain the farro and transfer it to a tray to cool . In a small bowl, prepare the dressing by combining the chives and oil .
Add the red wine vinegar , salt , and pepper . Stir to thoroughly flavor the emulsion and use it to dress the cooked farro .
Add the primosale cheese and blackberries , then gently mix .
The farro salad is ready : plate it, finishing with 3 anchovy fillets and fresh basil leaves. Enjoy your farro salad with primosale cheese, blackberries, and anchovies from the Cantabrian Sea!
It is recommended to consume the farro salad with primosale cheese, blackberries, and anchovies immediately.
If you use a different type of farro than pearled, such as whole-grain (hulled) or semi-pearled farro, the cooking times will increase significantly. Whole-grain farro requires soaking for 6–8 hours and cooking for about 50–60 minutes, while semi-pearled cooks in 30–35 minutes and can be soaked to reduce the cooking time.

