name:
Gnocchi with clams, zucchini and yellow cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Potato gnocchi pasta: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Zucchini: 1.3lbs(300 g)- with flowers
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Yellow cherry tomatoes: 3 ½cups(500 g)
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Colorful, fragrant, and inviting, gnocchi with clams, zucchini, and yellow cherry tomatoes is a main course that encapsulates the flavors and aromas of the sea and the garden. Unlike the classic spaghetti with clams , in this case, you will find soft potato gnocchi that perfectly absorb the intense taste of the seafood. The sauce made with yellow cherry tomatoes, on the other hand, makes the dressing irresistibly creamy, enveloping each ingredient with its silky and delicate consistency. Perfect for making a great impression, the gnocchi with clams, zucchini, and yellow cherry tomatoes reinterpret Mediterranean tradition with a touch of creativity and sophistication!
Also try these gnocchi dishes with clams:
To prepare the gnocchi with clams, zucchini, and yellow cherry tomatoes, first focus on the How to clean clams : rinse them several times under running water, discarding any open or broken ones. Then soak the clams and add coarse salt; this way, the clams will easily purge the sand. Leave them to soak for a couple of hours, and if you notice sand at the bottom, repeat the process until you see no more sand. Cut the cherry tomatoes into 4 wedges . In a pan, flavor the oil with the crushed garlic clove .
Add the cherry tomatoes , season with salt , and add the basil . Cook over medium-low heat for about 30 minutes.
Remove the garlic and transfer everything into a jug, then blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth sauce . For an even smoother sauce, strain it through a sieve into a bowl and set aside.
In a pan, sauté a garlic clove with a drizzle of oil for a few minutes , then add the clams and deglaze with white wine .
Cover with a lid and cook over medium-high heat for 1-2 minutes, just long enough for them to open. Transfer the clams to a bowl and strain the liquid into a bowl through a sieve .
Shell the clams , keeping some aside with the shell for plating. Leave them soaking in the previously filtered liquid . Move on to the zucchinis: remove the flower .
Cut the zucchini into 1/4 inch cubes . Remove the pistil from the flowers and cut them into pieces. In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, add the garlic, and sauté for a few minutes. Add the zucchini and cook over medium heat for about 7 minutes, then season with salt .
Now pour in the cherry tomato sauce , the flowers , a few tablespoons of the clam cooking stock , and keep warm.
Meanwhile, cook the gnocchi in plenty of salted water . As soon as they float to the surface, drain them directly into the pan and add the shelled clams .
Pour a drizzle of oil and mix. Plate and complete with the whole clams set aside . Your gnocchi with clams, zucchini, and yellow cherry tomatoes are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the gnocchi with clams, zucchini, and yellow cherry tomatoes freshly cooked. If necessary, you can store them in the fridge, in a closed container, for 2 days.
The yellow cherry tomato sauce can be frozen.
If you don't have yellow cherry tomatoes, you can also use other types of cherry tomatoes, preferably sweet ones like datterini: the flavor will be less delicate, but equally tasty!
For a seafood-free alternative, you can omit the clams and enrich the dressing with crumbled feta or shavings of salted ricotta when plating.

