name:
Pasta with Shi Drum, Trombetta Zucchini, and Yellow Cherry Tomatoes
ingredients:
Gluten-free Fusilli pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Croaker: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (to be cleaned)
Yellow cherry tomatoes: 4cups(600 g)
Crookneck squash: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Shallot: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Mint: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
This summer, bring a first course from the sea to your table that is truly delicious and original, while also being wholesome and delicate: pasta with shi drum, trombetta zucchini, and yellow cherry tomatoes !
Two special seasonal ingredients that meet the exquisite flesh of shi drum, a fish highly appreciated for both its flavor and texture. The yellow cherry tomatoes transform into a creamy and colorful sauce, while the trombetta zucchini remain firm and crunchy.
We chose to use gluten-free fusilli to create a dish that suits everyone's tastes and needs. We are sure that pasta with shi drum, trombetta zucchini, and yellow cherry tomatoes will be a great success!
Also try these first courses with yellow cherry tomatoes:
To prepare pasta with shi drum, trombetta zucchini, and yellow cherry tomatoes, first scale the fish, clean it of the entrails, and remove the fins (for further details you can consult the " How to clean the shi drum " guide). Make an incision at the base of the head , then cut along the back and gently insert the knife blade down to the belly, trying to stay as close as possible to the bones. This way, obtain 2 fillets .
Now remove the lower part of the belly , then extract the bones with tweezers and remove the skin .
Finally, cut the flesh into 1/2 inch cubes . Set aside and move on to the cherry tomatoes: cut the cherry tomatoes in half , then pour them into a pan where you have heated a drizzle of oil with a garlic clove .
Salt and sauté over medium heat for about 5 minutes, then remove about a third of the tomatoes and set them aside; you'll need them for plating. Continue cooking the remaining cherry tomatoes for about 20 minutes. After this time, remove the garlic .
Transfer the cooked cherry tomatoes into a beaker and blend with an immersion blender , then strain the mixture through a sieve to obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream .
Set aside and tend to the trombetta zucchini: cut them into thin slices , then finely chop the shallot. Pour the shallot into a pan with the oil and salt immediately .
Stew over low heat for about 7 minutes, then add the zucchini . Raise the heat and brown over medium heat for about 5 minutes, adjusting the salt. Meanwhile, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the pasta al dente . After 5 minutes of cooking the zucchini, add the shi drum .
Continue cooking for about 3 minutes , then pour in the cherry tomato cream and adjust the salt. Drain the pasta into the pan with the sauce and briefly toss everything to combine, then turn off the heat and stir in a drizzle of oil .
Plate and finish with the reserved cherry tomatoes and a few mint leaves . Your pasta with shi drum, trombetta zucchini, and yellow cherry tomatoes is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the pasta with shi drum, trombetta zucchini, and yellow cherry tomatoes immediately. If necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
The yellow cherry tomato sauce can be frozen.
If you prefer, you can replace the mint with basil, thyme, or rosemary.
Instead of shallot, you can flavor the oil with a garlic clove.

