name:
Pasta with Ricotta Cream and Roasted Cherry Tomatoes
ingredients:
Fusillotti: 3 ¼cups(320 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 4 ¾cups(700 g)
Brown sugar: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Fine salt: 1pinch
Basil: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
In summer, we crave simple, fragrant, and light dishes without ever compromising on taste! The pasta with ricotta cream and roasted cherry tomatoes is the perfect recipe to bring the colors and flavors of the Mediterranean to the table during the beautiful season. Creamy, flavorful , and fragrant with fresh basil, it's a summer delight prepared with just a few ingredients and captures your heart with the first taste. The combination of the sweetness of slightly caramelized oven-roasted cherry tomatoes and the softness of blended ricotta creates an irresistible condiment that envelops our fusillotti. The best part? You can enjoy it hot right when it's made, or prepare it in advance and serve it cold or at room temperature: it will be delicious either way! Whether it's a family lunch, a quick dinner, or a packed lunch to take to the beach or office, this pasta will win everyone over with its simplicity and goodness. Discover other irresistible first courses:
To prepare the pasta with ricotta cream and roasted cherry tomatoes, first, place the whole cherry tomatoes in a bowl. Add the salt , the oil , and the ground black pepper .
Then add the brown sugar and mix . Arrange the cherry tomatoes on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and add a clove of garlic with its skin on .
Bake at 430°F for about 30 minutes; they should be nicely roasted. Don't worry if they release some liquid during cooking. At this point, take them out of the oven , remove the garlic clove , and let them cool slightly. Place a pot full of water on the stove, salted to taste, which will be used for cooking the pasta. In a tall, narrow container, place the ricotta and add the salt .
Add about ten basil leaves and almost all the cherry tomatoes , setting aside the others for decoration. Pour a small ladle of water and blend everything until you obtain a cream.
Now strain the mixture into a large bowl . As soon as it starts boiling, add the fusillotti .
Cook them al dente, then drain them , transfer them to the bowl with the dressing , and mix well. Plate by adding the reserved cherry tomatoes and the basil .
The pasta with ricotta cream and roasted cherry tomatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1-2 days.
You can use another creamy fresh cheese instead of ricotta. Enhance the pasta by adding a teaspoon of pesto!

