name:
Potato and Tuna Salad
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- to clean
Tuna filet: 9oz(250 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1.3cups(200 g)
Taggiasca olives: 2.5oz(70 g)- pitted
Extra virgin olive oil: 4 ½tbsp(60 g)
Basil: 5leaves
Thyme: 2sprigs
Oregano: 1sprig- dry
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the salad in the refrigerator (30 minutes)

instructions:
The potato and tuna salad is a fresh and satisfying dish, perfect for those looking for a simple yet tasty preparation. The salad is one of the most popular dishes during the warm season because it combines freshness, lightness, and color, a true meal saver that's easy to prepare. Unlike the classic potato salad , in this enriched version, the combination of the sweetness of Boiled potatoes and the savoriness of tuna creates a tasty and balanced base, made even more interesting by the olives and cherry tomatoes that add freshness and color. Everything is wrapped in an aromatic oil that harmonizes every bite. It's the kind of recipe you can prepare in advance and let marinate for a few hours in the refrigerator. Tasty, colorful, and fragrant, the potato and tuna salad is a recipe to always have on hand!
If you are looking for other potato salad recipes, also try:
To prepare the potato and tuna salad, first place the potatoes in a pot , cover them with water, and once it reaches a boil, cook for 40 minutes. Use a fork test to check if they are cooked. Let them cool slightly and remove the skin .
Cut them into cubes of about 1.5-2 cm (about 3/4 inch). At this point, prepare the aromatic oil. In a small bowl, pour the oil, add the basil , torn by hand, and the thyme .
Add the oregano , season with salt and pepper , mix, and let it infuse until ready to use. Meanwhile, cut the cherry tomatoes in half .
Place the potatoes in a bowl, add the flavored oil , the tuna , and the cherry tomatoes .
Add the Taggiasca olives and mix thoroughly, then let rest in the fridge for at least 30 minutes. Plate and finish with basil leaves . Your potato and tuna salad is ready to be enjoyed .
The potato and tuna salad can be stored in the refrigerator, in a sealed container, for 2-3 days.
For a citrus touch, you can add lemon juice and zest to the aromatic oil. For those who love bolder flavors, a few thin slices of Tropea red onion is a perfect addition. You can enrich the salad with chopped carrots and celery.

