name:
Gratinated Sea Bass with Tomatoes, Potatoes, and Zucchini
ingredients:
Seabass fillets: 4- to clean
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Zucchini: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
White onions: 1
Carrots: 1.8oz(50 g)
Parsley: 1bunch
Thyme: 1sprig
Coarse salt: to taste
Pink peppercorn: to taste
Lemons: 1
Breadcrumbs: 0.3cup(30 g)
Parsley: to taste- chopped
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Lemon peel: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The gratinated sea bass with tomatoes, potatoes, and zucchini is a second course that is light yet full of flavor, perfect for those who love simple yet refined dishes. In this preparation, the sea bass is cooked in court bouillon before baking: this short and fragrant cooking method enhances the tenderness of the fish and preserves its flavor without making it heavy. The base of potatoes absorbs all the aromas of the dish, the aromatic breadcrumbs create a delicious golden crust on top, while the vegetables add color and freshness. It's one of those dishes that you can serve on many different occasions, from a family dinner to a more formal lunch.
If you are looking for more sea bass recipes , take a look at:
To prepare the gratinated sea bass with tomatoes, potatoes, and zucchini, first, boil the potatoes for about 40 minutes. Meanwhile, for the zucchinis, separate the outer part from the core, cutting the first into strips and the second into cubes .
Cut the carrots into cubes , the onion into wedges . Now prepare the court bouillon, the aromatic broth. In a pot, pour the water and add the zucchini core and carrots .
Add the onion , lemon juice, the squeezed lemon , and thyme .
Continue with parsley , coarse salt , and pink pepper . Bring to a boil and cook for about 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, remove the skin from the sea bass fillets and cut each fillet into 3 lozenges . Once the time has elapsed, remove the vegetables from the broth .
Cook the sea bass in the broth for about 2 minutes . Drain and let rest on absorbent paper . Remove the skin from the potatoes, cut them into slices and set aside.
For the breadcrumbs, place the breadcrumbs in a bowl and add chopped parsley , salt, pepper , lemon zest , and mix.
In a 12x8 inch baking dish, drizzle some oil and lay the potatoes on the bottom. Place the sea bass on the bed of potatoes and cover it with halved cherry tomatoes .
Continue with the zucchini strips and cover everything with the breadcrumbs . Finish with a drizzle of oil .
Once the layering is complete , bake in a static oven at 350°F for about 15 minutes . Your gratinated sea bass with tomatoes, potatoes, and zucchini is ready to be served hot .
The gratinated sea bass with tomatoes, potatoes, and zucchini should be consumed immediately after preparation, but if it remains, you can store it in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for up to 1 day.
You can easily customize this recipe based on what you have at home or your tastes. Instead of sea bass, you can use other white fish fillets like sea bream, cod, or plaice. If you want a more flavorful dish, try adding Taggiasca olives or capers between the layers of vegetables.
Court bouillon (literally "short broth" in French) is an aromatic liquid used to cook fish, shellfish, or vegetables delicately and quickly.

