name:
Swordfish Caponata
ingredients:
Swordfish: 10.6oz(300 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 1cup(400 g)
Eggplant: 2
White onions: 1
Celery: 2ribs
Green olives: 3.5oz(100 g)
Salted capers: 2tbsp(30 g)- desalted
Pine nuts: 1 ½tbsp(15 g)
Sugar: 7tsp(30 g)
Basil: to taste
Balsamic vinegar: 2spoonfuls
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: 8 ½cups(1.5 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
If you love the intense flavors of Sicilian cuisine, you can't miss the swordfish caponata : a delicious seafood variant of the traditional Sicilian caponata . In this recipe, swordfish is combined with fried eggplant, olives, capers, and celery to create a rich, balanced dish that is perfect as both an appetizer and a main course.
Swordfish caponata is ideal to serve warm during the summer months or to prepare in advance for a special dinner. The sweet and sour contrast, typical of classic caponata, is enriched with the delicacy of the fish, offering a combination of flavors that will pleasantly surprise you. A simple dish to make but capable of impressing!
Here you will find other delicious caponata variations:
To prepare the swordfish caponata, trim the eggplants and slice them first into 1/2 inch slices and then into cubes . Also slice the celery stalks .
Lastly, clean and slice the onion . In a small pot, heat the oil to 347°F, then add the eggplant cubes . Fry until golden, for about 2-3 minutes, then drain the eggplants .
Transfer the fried eggplants to a tray lined with paper towels to absorb the excess oil. Cut the swordfish into cubes of about an inch . Heat the oil in a pan .
Add the sliced onions and let them sauté over low heat for a few minutes, then pour in the peeled tomatoes and salt .
Also add the rinsed capers , green olives , and sliced celery .
Now pour in the vinegar , the sugar , and the basil leaves .
Add the pine nuts , the cubed swordfish , and the fried eggplants .
Cook for 15 minutes over moderate heat . Once ready , adjust the salt, season with pepper to taste, and serve your swordfish caponata immediately !
We recommend consuming the swordfish caponata immediately.
As an alternative to balsamic vinegar, you can use the same amount of red wine vinegar.

