name:
Potatoes and Crunchy Peppers
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Crushed red pepper: 15 ½tbsp(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Potatoes and crunchy peppers are one of the most representative dishes of Basilicata. To prepare this tasty side dish, crunchy peppers are used: dried sweet red peppers. Traditionally, fresh peppers were strung on cotton threads to create necklaces that were then hung outside the house, on the balcony railing, to dry. The term 'cruschi', which means crunchy in the Lucanian dialect, refers to the crunchiness achieved through the drying process. The preparation of potatoes and crispy peppers is simple: fry the crispy peppers in a pan until they are fragrant and crunchy, then boil the potatoes and slice them to fry in the pan; finally, combine the peppers with the potatoes, and the dish is ready! The result will be a very flavorful dish to accompany red meat or fish, such as cod
Discover other appetizing recipes with crunchy peppers:

To prepare the potatoes and crunchy peppers, start by boiling the potatoes for 10 minutes (it will take 5 minutes if using a pressure cooker) so they soften but do not break apart . Peel the potatoes
slice them into pieces about 1/4 inch thick and set them aside. Place a tablespoon of oil in a pan and fry the peppers, one at a time . The oil should be very hot, and the peppers should cook for just a few seconds: until they puff up and turn bright red.
Drain the crispy peppers on a tray lined with paper towels . Cut the crispy peppers into not-too-small pieces and set them aside. Now cook the potato slices over high heat in the same pan and the same cooking oil used for the peppers .
The cooking will take about 15 minutes until the potatoes are well browned . Season with salt and add the crunchy peppers cut into pieces . Sauté together for a few minutes, being careful not to break the vegetables, turn off the heat , and serve the potatoes and crunchy peppers immediately.
Consume the potatoes with crunchy peppers immediately or store them in the refrigerator for up to one day.
Dried peppers are made using a particular type of pepper characterized by a thin fruit thickness and a low water content, these features speed up the drying process, which involves keeping the freshly harvested peppers for two or three days on nets in cool, dry rooms; then the peduncles are tied with a string to create necklaces called ''serte'' that dry in the sun, hanging from railings. Once dried, the crunchy peppers can be enjoyed on their own but are often crumbled to season traditional dishes like orecchiette with turnip tops or "ammollicati" cavatelli (cavatelli with fried breadcrumbs in oil and garlic).
Crunchy peppers are worth seeking out. They are a true Lucanian delicacy, a super typical product that you can find in stores specializing in products from Southern Italy: once inside, we're sure you'll leave with a bunch of these peppers in their "chip" version. That is, once baked, pointed and thin as they are, they become as crunchy as chips. There is nothing remotely equivalent, so happy hunting!

