name:
Couscous with Vegetables and Tuna
ingredients:
Couscous: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Fine salt: 1pinch
Red peppers: 1
Zucchini: 1
Carrots: 1
Tuna in oil: 7oz(200 g)- (drained weight)
Precooked red beans: ½cup(100 g)- (drained weight)
Radishes: 5
Soy sauce: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Fresh and colorful, the couscous with vegetables and tuna is a perfect first course when you're in the mood for something light and tasty, which can be prepared in no time! The Tuna in oil and red beans, a tried and tested pair, are combined with a mix of peppers, zucchini, carrots, and radishes that are sautéed to maintain a crunchy texture. The special touch is given by the soy sauce , which ties everything together with an original and delicately tasty nuance.
Couscous is an ideal dish to serve cold for a quick lunch or a light dinner. It can also be prepared in advance and left to rest in the fridge: in fact, with a few hours of rest, the flavors meld better and your couscous with vegetables and tuna will become even tastier!
If you love couscous, also try these fantastic recipes with couscous:
To prepare the couscous with vegetables and tuna, first pour the water into a saucepan, add the salt and the oil , and bring to a boil. Place the couscous in a baking dish or a large plate and pour the boiling water over it .
Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest for 2 minutes. Check the couscous package for the amount of water to use and the resting time. Once the necessary time has passed, fluff the couscous with a fork and set aside. Move on to the vegetables: remove the stem, seeds, and inner ribs of the pepper, then cut it into strips, and then into small cubes .
Do the same with the zucchini and carrots . Thinly slice the radishes using a mandoline .
In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil, add the carrots , and cook for 4 minutes over medium heat. Then add the peppers and zucchini .
Adjust the salt and continue cooking for about 10-15 minutes. Off the heat, add the red beans and the tuna .
Mix well, breaking up the tuna with a spoon . Season with soy sauce and mix again. At this point, you can dress the couscous .
Combine everything well and finish with the raw radishes and chopped parsley .
Plate and garnish with a drizzle of oil and more chopped parsley . Your couscous with vegetables and tuna is ready to enjoy !
The couscous with vegetables and tuna can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to 2 days.
If you prefer, you can replace the tuna with canned mackerel, grilled salmon, or sautéed shrimp.
Vary the vegetables using whatever is in season!

