name:
Lasagna with asparagus and sausage
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 9oz(250 g)
Asparagus: 1.5lbs(700 g)- (to be cleaned)
Sausage: 0.7lb(300 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- (to grate)
White wine: 0.4cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the lasagna with asparagus and sausage, first clean the asparagus: remove the hardest part of the stem , then peel the rest with a vegetable peeler and keep the scraps. Leave the tips whole and cut the stems into slices .
Boil the scraps obtained with the vegetable peeler in salted boiling water to obtain asparagus broth, which will take just a few minutes . Strain the broth and keep 21 oz aside. Also save the scraps.
In the meantime, heat a splash of oil in a pan , add the asparagus , salt, and pepper. Sauté over high heat for a few minutes, then deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate. Turn off the heat and set aside.
Now for the sausage: break it into pieces with your hands after removing the casing , then brown it in a pan with a drizzle of oil for a few minutes , breaking it up with a wooden spoon .
Now prepare the béchamel sauce: heat the milk, and in the meantime, melt the butter in a saucepan . Once melted, add the flour all at once and stir quickly with a whisk until you get a golden mixture, the roux .
Slowly add the hot milk, while continuing to stir , then also pour in the asparagus broth , season with salt and pepper .
Continue stirring over low heat, until you reach the desired consistency . When the béchamel has thickened, add the asparagus broth scraps and blend with an immersion mixer to obtain a smooth cream .
You are ready to assemble the lasagna: spread a layer of béchamel on the bottom of a 8x12 inch baking dish, then lay down the pasta sheets and cover with more béchamel . Distribute some of the sautéed asparagus .
Add some pieces of browned sausage , then sprinkle with grated Grana Padano DOP and finely cut mozzarella . Repeat the layers in this order until all ingredients are used up.
Once the final layer is completed , bake the lasagna in a static preheated oven at 355°F-375°F for about 40 minutes . When the surface is nicely golden , remove from the oven and serve your lasagna with asparagus and sausage !
Lasagna with asparagus and sausage can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, in an airtight container. If you prefer, you can assemble them in advance and bake the next day, which will make them even more flavorful.
You can freeze them before or after baking.
If using fresh pasta sheets, we recommend briefly blanching them before laying them in the pan.
You can replace the mozzarella with smoked scamorza for a stronger flavor.

