name:
Frozen yogurt
ingredients:
Natural plain yogurt: 2.1cups(500 g)- cold
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Strawberries: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Shredded coconut: 0.3cup(30 g)
Sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Nutella®: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Puffed rice: 3cups(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 1 h of resting and 30 min. of churning

instructions:
How do you make a delicious and genuine ice cream? Homemade frozen yogurt is the perfect answer to refresh your summer days with taste and simplicity. With just a few natural ingredients, you can create a great alternative to traditional ice cream at home, lighter but just as delicious. Made without cream, using plain yogurt, milk, and sugar, this dessert is perfect for those looking for a healthy snack or a refreshing end to a meal. Thanks to its versatility, frozen yogurt can be customized with your favorite toppings : berries, chopped nuts, crunchy cereals, Nutella, or chocolate chips. You won't need to visit a yogurt shop anymore; homemade is even better! But how can you make frozen yogurt without an ice cream maker ? No worries: we'll also explain how to easily prepare it using just your freezer! Here are more ice creams you shouldn't miss out on:
To prepare the frozen yogurt, first pour the milk and the sugar into a saucepan. Stir with a spoon and gently heat .
Bring to a boil until the sugar is completely dissolved. Transfer to a bowl and let cool first at room temperature and then in the refrigerator for one hour .
Once cooled, add the sweetened milk to the yogurt and mix well . Pour into an ice cream maker, preferably self-refrigerating . Churn the ice cream for 30 minutes or more until it reaches the right consistency.
In the meantime, prepare the strawberry topping: wash them well, remove the green parts, and cut them into cubes . Place them in a saucepan and add the sugar .
Cook for a few minutes until they are soft , then transfer to a small bowl and refrigerate. When the ice cream is ready and has reached the right consistency , you can transfer it to bowls . Use a spoon or a piping bag to achieve the typical shape. In this case, you'll need to be quick because yogurt ice cream might melt.
Garnish with strawberries, their syrup, and shredded coconut . The first fruit version is ready ! For those with a sweet tooth, you can add a teaspoon of Nutella on top .
Garnish with puffed rice and the second version will also be ready ! The frozen yogurt is ready to be served ; if you don't want to enjoy it immediately, place the ice cream in the freezer and assemble the bowls later.
Homemade frozen yogurt can be stored in the freezer for about a week . To best maintain its creaminess, store it in an airtight container, preferably shallow and wide. Before serving, let it soften at room temperature for 5-10 minutes : it will be easier to portion and have the ideal consistency.
To achieve creamy frozen yogurt even without an ice cream maker, stir the mixture every 30 minutes during freezing for 3-4 times. This simple tip prevents the formation of ice crystals and ensures a velvety texture. Get creative with the toppings, from light to indulgent ones! Reduce the sugar by 20 g and add about 15 g of honey for a more aromatic flavor, which will also help prevent ice crystal formation, especially in the absence of an ice cream maker.

