name:
Quinoa with zucchini and cheese
ingredients:
Quinoa: 1.8cups(320 g)
Zucchini: 0.7lb(300 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- (whole piece)
Water: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Flax seed: 1spoonful
Sunflower seeds: 1spoonful
Pumpkin seeds: 1spoonful
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Quinoa with zucchini and cheese is a delicious vegetarian quinoa salad , perfect for the spring and summer menus! Just like the classic rice or pasta salad, it can be prepared in advance and is great to enjoy at room temperature, making it an ideal solution for lunch breaks at the office or by the sea.
The dressing is very simple and quick: sautéed zucchini, Grana Padano shavings, and fresh basil leaves for a genuine, tasty, and fragrant mix. Practical and nutritious, quinoa with zucchini and cheese will be your dish of the summer!
Try also these tasty variations of Quinoa Salad :
To prepare quinoa with zucchini and cheese, first rinse the quinoa under running water , then drain it and place it in a saucepan . Toast the quinoa over medium heat for a few minutes, stirring often .
Add salt , add the water , and let it simmer for about 20 minutes ; it should absorb all the liquid.
Meanwhile, take care of the zucchini: trim them and cut them lengthwise into 4 parts, then slice them into thin triangles . In a pan, flavor the oil with a clove of garlic, then add the zucchini and sauté over medium heat for about 10 minutes.
When the zucchini are well browned, remove the garlic and let them cool slightly. Meanwhile, the quinoa will be cooked, so check that all the water has been absorbed, then season with a drizzle of oil and fluff with a fork .
Transfer the quinoa to a large bowl and add the zucchini , then mix. Now shave the piece of Grana Padano with a potato peeler and add it to the bowl .
Finally, add the flax seeds , sunflower seeds , and pumpkin seeds .
Mix well and plate, garnishing with fresh basil leaves . Your quinoa with zucchini and cheese is ready to be enjoyed !
Quinoa with zucchini and cheese can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
You can freeze it.
If you prefer, you can substitute the Grana Padano shavings with cubes of primosale cheese.

