name:
Mini zucchini and cheese plumcakes
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Greek yogurt: 0.7cup(150 g)
Pecorino cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 7tbsp(100 g)
Milk: ¼cup(60 g)
Eggs: 3
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 3tsp(15 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Zucchini: 5.3oz(150 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Makes: 8 pieces

instructions:
Made in a convenient single-serving size, the mini zucchini and cheese plumcakes are ideal to serve as an appetizer or for a buffet, during a brunch with friends, but also for a picnic, a savory snack, or a bite to take to the office. A delicious and versatile recipe that will captivate you at the first bite thanks to the soft texture of this simple batter without butter, made with yogurt and seed oil.
What makes them special is the meeting of the delicacy of zucchini and the savoriness of pecorino, a combination that pleases everyone, both young and old, and lends itself to a thousand variations depending on the season or the ingredients you have at hand. If you are looking for a practical and tasty idea, the mini zucchini and cheese plumcakes are the perfect choice!
Here are other appetizing savory plumcake variations:
To prepare the mini zucchini and cheese plumcakes, first trim the ends of the zucchini and cut them first into strips and then into cubes of about 0.2 inches . In a pan, flavor the oil with a clove of garlic .
Add the zucchini , add salt, and cook over medium heat for 10 minutes or until well browned . Meanwhile, cut the pecorino into cubes of 0.2 inches .
Move on to preparing the batter: crack the eggs into a bowl and whip them with an electric mixer until they become foamy. While keeping the mixer on, slowly pour in the milk , then add the yogurt .
Now slowly pour in the seed oil , add a pinch of salt and, lastly, add the flour mixed with the baking powder, one tablespoon at a time .
Add the browned zucchini and pecorino to the batter, then mix everything well .
Pour the mixture into 8 4x2 inch muffin cups and score the surface of the plumcakes lengthwise with a dough scraper or the blade of a knife : this way you will have uniform growth during baking. Bake in a static oven at 338°F for 45 minutes. Before serving, add a few thyme leaves . Your mini zucchini and cheese plumcakes are ready to be enjoyed !
The mini zucchini and cheese plumcakes can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, in an airtight container.
You can freeze them for up to a month after cooking and letting them cool completely.
You can substitute pecorino with other semi-hard cheeses like provolone, smoked scamorza, or fontina.
The zucchini can be replaced or accompanied by other seasonal vegetables, like julienned carrots, spinach, or diced bell peppers, always previously sautéed in a pan.
If you love bolder flavors, you can enrich the batter with diced speck, bacon, or smoked salmon!

