name:
Tart with Cream and Cherries
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- at room temperature
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(4 g)
Eggs: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)
Egg yolks: 3tbsp(40 g)- (approximately 2)
Cornstarch: 1tbsp(15 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.25oz(7 g)
Vanilla extract: ¼tsp(1 g)
Cherries: 2cups(300 g)- from Vignola
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(20 g)
Powdered sugar: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 8
Note + 30 min. of resting time for the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
If you are looking for a summer dessert that best expresses the sweetness of seasonal fruit, the tart with cream and cherries is the perfect choice.
The stars of this recipe are the cherries from Vignola, which not only decorate the surface of the dessert but also enrich its interior, with their unique and juicy flavor that blends magnificently with the creams. Inside the tart, the cherries are chopped and mixed with the delicate diplomatic cream , creating a soft and fresh heart that bursts with flavor with every bite. On top, the cocoa cream adds a rich and intense note.
Perfect for an outdoor dinner or a special occasion, the tart with cream and cherries brings the taste of summer to the table in a refined and surprising way.
Discover these cherry dessert recipes as well:

To prepare the tart with cream and cherries, start with the shortcrust pastry: in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, add the softened butter and powdered sugar . Mix until creamy, then incorporate the whole egg . Mix for a few minutes and also add the sifted flour and baking powder .
Continue mixing at medium speed until the dough is compact. Then transfer it to the work surface and shape it by hand into a dough ball , cover it with plastic wrap, and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes .
Meanwhile, prepare the cream: soak the gelatin sheets for 10 minutes in cold water . In a saucepan, pour the milk and vanilla extract , then heat until almost boiling. Separately, in a bowl, combine the egg yolks and sugar .
Add the cornstarch and whisk to obtain a smooth, lump-free cream . Pour the hot milk over the egg yolk mixture .
Transfer the mixture back to the saucepan on the stove and cook over medium heat, stirring until the cream thickens. At this point, add the previously soaked and squeezed gelatin , then mix carefully until well absorbed .
Transfer the cream to a bowl, let it cool slightly, then cover with plastic wrap in contact with the cream and place in the refrigerator to set while proceeding with the recipe. Retrieve the shortcrust dough and roll it out on a floured work surface with a rolling pin to a thickness of 1/8 inch .
Wrap the rolled-out pastry over a 9 1/2 inch tart pan . Ensure the pastry adheres well to the base and edge, then remove the excess dough by pressing a rolling pin along the edge . Prick the base with a fork .
Bake in a static oven at 330°F for 25 minutes , then remove from the oven and let cool. Prepare the cocoa cream for the garnish: pour the cold heavy cream into a bowl , then whip with electric beaters .
Once you obtain a frothy consistency , add the powdered sugar and cocoa powder .
Mix with the whisk to combine and transfer the cream to a piping bag fitted with a star nozzle , then place in the refrigerator. Move on to the diplomatic cream: semi-whip the heavy cream and incorporate it into the pastry cream .
Gently mix and transfer this cream to a piping bag fitted with a plain nozzle . At this point, turn out the shortcrust base .
Flip the base onto a serving plate . Now pit half of the cherries and chop them into little pieces .
Fill the tart with the chopped cherries , then spread a layer of diplomatic cream and create some decorative dollops .
Pipe additional dollops with the cocoa cream and distribute the whole cherries . Your tart with cream and cherries is ready to be enjoyed !
The tart with cream and cherries can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
Freezing is not recommended.
To better maintain the shape of the tart, you can place it in the refrigerator for 10 minutes before baking.

