name:
Chocolate and Cherry Cupcake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 5.3oz(150 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Cherries: 3 ½cups(100 g)- from Vignola
Dark chocolate: 1.75oz(50 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4 ½tbsp(35 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2 medium)
Whole milk: ⅓cup(90 g)
Butter: 5.6tbsp(80 g)- soft
Baking powder: 0.7tsp(3 g)
Baking soda: ¼tsp(1 g)
Cherries: 12- from Vignola
Fresh liquid cream: 0.6cup(150 g)- cold
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼tbsp(15 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Note + the cooling time of the cupcakes

instructions:
Chocolate and cherries are the distinctive ingredients of the typical Black Forest cake , and they are so good together that we wanted to offer the same combination in another format: the chocolate and cherry cupcakes !
Soft and delicious like every cupcake should be, they are decorated with a dollop of whipped cream crowned by a whole cherry. The batter of the chocolate cupcakes , moreover, is enriched with pieces of fresh fruit to further enhance the flavor of these juicy seasonal delights.
What are you waiting for? Take advantage of the summer months to indulge in chocolate and cherry cupcakes!
Here are other delicious desserts with chocolate and cherries:
To prepare the chocolate and cherry cupcakes, first pit the cherries using the appropriate tool , then chop them coarsely . Chop the dark chocolate and set aside.
In a bowl, combine flour and cocoa , baking powder, and baking soda , then mix with a whisk and set aside.
In another bowl, place the softened butter and sugar , then beat with electric whisks for about a minute .
Add the eggs and mix again with the whisks , then add the dry ingredients, one tablespoon at a time .
Work gradually with the whisks to incorporate them . Once they are well absorbed, pour in the milk and mix again. At this point, add the chopped cherries .
Also add the chopped chocolate , then gently mix with a spatula to incorporate them evenly .
Place 12 aluminum baking cups, measuring 2.75x1.5 inches, on a baking tray and fill them with about 2.5 oz of batter each; you can use a spoon or a pastry bag . Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 28-30 minutes . Once baked, remove from the oven and let the cupcakes cool completely at room temperature .
Meanwhile, pour the powdered sugar and cream into a bowl , add the vanilla extract , and beat with electric whisks. Transfer the whipped cream into a pastry bag with a plain nozzle .
When the cupcakes have cooled, garnish the surface with a dollop of whipped cream and finish with a cherry on top . Your chocolate and cherry cupcakes are ready to be enjoyed !
The chocolate and cherry cupcakes can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
You can freeze them after baking for about a month, without the topping.
It's important to let the chocolate and cherry cupcakes cool completely before decorating them, otherwise the cream might deflate.

