name:
Barley and Kale Salad
ingredients:
Cavolo riccio (Kale): 3 ½cups(230 g)
Pearl barley: 1 ¼cup(220 g)
Mantuan pumpkin: ½cup(120 g)
Precooked white beans: 1.4cups(250 g)
Peanuts: 0.3cup(40 g)- unsalted
Raisins: ¼cup(35 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Apple cider vinegar: 2tsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Winter has nothing to envy when it comes to salads to the warmer season, equally colorful and flavorful dishes will enrich your menus with taste and wholesomeness like the cabbage salad with its pleasant amaranth hues, the arugula, pear, and Parmesan salad for those who love the timeless farmer's combination, and the refreshing Orange Salad appreciated for its sweet and sour aromas. Next to these colorful delicacies, we offer you a tasty barley and kale salad, an unusual and balanced mix that will surprise you with the first bite. Pumpkin and raisins add sweetness, peanuts for crunchiness, and the pleasantly tangy taste of kale which, in a creamy guise, envelops the entire dish. It's time to renew your winter recipe books with the barley and kale salad!
To make the barley and kale salad, first cook the barley in salted boiling water for about 15 minutes or for the time indicated on the package. Meanwhile, soak the raisins in a small bowl with lukewarm water to rehydrate them . Remove the leaves from the kale, eliminating the more fibrous central part .
Wash and dry the leaves and then transfer half of them into the blender cup: add the olive oil , grated Parmesan , and blend with an immersion blender ,
adding just enough barley cooking water to obtain a creamy pesto that you will momentarily set aside. In the meantime, drain the barley which will be cooked through .
Pour the barley into a bowl and dress with the kale pesto , mix and set aside . Now clean the pumpkin: cut it in half, remove the seeds and the peel .
Cut the pumpkin first into wedges and then into small cubes . In a pan, pour a drizzle of olive oil, heat it, and then add the pumpkin , sautéing it for a few minutes until it is golden and well cooked .
Now place the other half of the cleaned kale in a bowl: season with salt , oil , and vinegar ,
then add the beans , the rehydrated and well-drained raisins , and the pumpkin .
Finally, combine the kale salad with the barley and incorporate the peanuts last . Mix and serve your tasty barley and kale salad !
The barley and kale salad can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. We do not recommend freezing it.
You can add ingredients you like and enhance your salad with an alternative vinaigrette made from sweet mustard, aromatic herbs, oil, and lemon zest.

