name:
Candied Cherries
ingredients:
Cherries: 4.4lbs(2 kg)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)- (per 1 liter of water)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the time for sterilizing the jars

instructions:
Candied cherries are a classic and evergreen preserve, always prepared by our grandmothers; it's truly worth trying to make this simple yet flavorful preserve, if only for the delicious result that cannot be found in industrial packages. For this preparation, it would be better to use “duracine cherries” or “big cherries”, which are much more suitable for preserving. The syrup, simply made with water and sugar, is an excellent method for preserving fruit naturally. Besides preserving the flavor, it also maintains the deep red color for a long time. You can also add aromas like cinnamon, vanilla, or a liqueur if desired. You will need to be patient for at least a month before enjoying these delightful cherries, but it will be worth the wait. Once ready, you can enjoy them as they are, accompanying them with cream ice cream, or use them in your sweet preparations: for example, you could make a Black Forest cake even when cherries are not in season, click Black Forest cake to see the recipe.
To prepare the candied cherries, first you need to get glass jars for the preserve (twist-off type with metal cap or with spring lid and rubber gasket) and proceed to sanitize them according to the Ministry of Health guidelines provided at the end of the recipe. Start by washing the jars thoroughly under running water; for jars with airtight closure, also wash the gasket well and set it aside to dry . Line a large pot with high sides with a clean cloth and place the jars inside the pot. Then wrap one or more towels around the jars to prevent them from bumping . Fill the pot with water to cover the jars. Bring to a boil, then lower the heat and leave the jars in the pot for another 30 minutes. Ten minutes before draining the jars, immerse the lids to sterilize them. After the necessary time has passed, turn off the heat and let them cool. When the water is at room temperature, remove the jars from the pot and let them drain on a cloth .
Now that the jars are ready, prepare a syrup with sugar and water using 200 grams of sugar and a liter of water by proceeding as follows: place a pot with water on the heat and pour in the sugar . Bring to a boil, and stir until the sugar is completely dissolved . It is important not to overcook the syrup, otherwise caramel may form. Let the syrup cool, in the meantime, take the cherries, choose them firm and ripe, wash them well and dry them .
Remove the stem . Place the cherries in airtight jars , trying to arrange them to leave as few empty spaces as possible, but without crushing them too much. With the indicated quantities, you will obtain two jars with a capacity of 2 cups .
Pour the previously prepared syrup over the cherries inside the jars , shaking them occasionally to release any air bubbles; stop with the syrup 1 cm from the edge . Finally, close the jars . If you are using jars with screw caps, tighten the caps well but without over-tightening. At this point, proceed with boiling: place the jars in a large pot, to prevent the jars from breaking by bumping into each other while boiling, you can wrap them separately in some cloths. Fill the pot with water: the water level should not exceed the lid of the jars. Bring to a boil and boil for 20-30 minutes. After this time, turn off the heat, remove them from the water using tongs, and let them cool. If you are using jars with screw caps, once the jars have cooled, check if the vacuum has occurred correctly: you can press the center of the lid, and if you don't hear the classic "click-clack," the vacuum has occurred. If you are using jars with rubber gasket closures, at the time of consuming the cherries, you can do the vacuum test by pulling the appropriate tab: if when pulling it makes a snapping sound, it means that the content has been preserved with the correct vacuum. Conversely, if pulling the tab the gasket feels "soft," it means that the vacuum has not formed correctly, and it is better not to eat the content. Your cherries are ready to be enjoyed!
Candied cherries can be stored for up to 3 months, taking care to keep the jars in a cool, dry place, away from direct light. It is recommended to wait at least 1 month before consuming the cherries. To contain the cherries, get airtight jars that are not too large, the ideal is a jar with a capacity of 1 cup, as when you open one, you should consume the cherries within 3-4 days even if you store them in the fridge.
You can add flavorings such as cinnamon, cloves, vanilla, or Maraschino liqueur to the jars.
The cherry tree is attributed different meanings depending on the geographical areas and populations: in Central Europe, the cherry tree is considered the protector of fields against wrongdoers; in Scandinavian countries and Great Britain, instead, it is the symbol of misfortune and upcoming disasters; in the East (especially in Japan), the cherry tree is the emblem of femininity and sensuality.
The homemade preparation of preserves and jams can present health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of the foods, which industrial procedures can assure to prevent dangerous contaminations. It is therefore important to scrupulously follow food safety instructions to reduce risks, but it should always be kept in mind that the same food safety that is present in professionally produced preserves and jams can never be achieved. For a correct preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

