name:
Grilled salmon with parsley sauce
ingredients:
Salmon fillets: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (4 pieces)
Parsley: 1 ¼cup(70 g)
Peperoncino: 1
Lemon juice: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Apple cider vinegar: 2tsp
Shallot: 3
Fine salt: to taste
Zucchini: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Salmon is a fish appreciated worldwide for its qualities, so much so that it is recommended to consume it regularly for the well-being of the body. After having cooked baked salmon on its own, salmon with potatoes , Steamed salmon and Salmon fillets en papillote , today we propose grilled salmon with parsley sauce! A light and nutritious seafood main course, flavored with an aromatic dressing with spicy notes and accompanied by a side of sautéed zucchini . Easy and quick to prepare, this grilled salmon is ideal for the whole family, even for a last-minute dinner. Try the grilled salmon with parsley sauce and discover how many recipes there are to bring salmon to the table in different ways!

To prepare the grilled salmon with parsley sauce, start with the parsley sauce, which you can prepare a few hours in advance if you prefer. Finely chop with a knife (or mince in the blender) the parsley and the shallot; cut the fresh chili pepper into small pieces . In a bowl, place the chopped parsley, the chopped shallot
and the chopped chili pepper. Set aside the mixed chop. Now take care of the dressing sauce: in a small bowl, pour the oil, lemon juice , and two tablespoons of apple cider vinegar. Whisk the sauce well and incorporate it into the prepared chop ,
mix well so that the chop absorbs the dressing and season with salt and pepper. Set the sauce aside and take care of the zucchini side: wash and cut the zucchini into rounds . In a large pan, place the chopped garlic (or if you prefer, you can leave it whole and then remove it after it has flavored the oil) and four tablespoons of oil, let it wilt, and add the zucchini, salt, pepper
(you can consult the procedure found in the sautéed zucchini recipe) and cook over high heat, covering the pan with a lid until the zucchini is cooked . Finally, prepare the salmon: take the cleaned salmon fillet and cut it into 4 slices of about 7 oz each . (Alternatively, you can buy 4 pre-cut slices at the fishmonger). Heat a cast-iron grill, once it's hot, place the slices, salt ,
pepper, and cook for about 3-4 minutes per side . The slices will be ready when the surface is golden . Now you can plate : drizzle the salmon with the parsley sauce prepared earlier and add the sautéed zucchini. Serve the grilled salmon with parsley sauce hot.
It is recommended to consume grilled salmon with parsley sauce as soon as it is ready. It is possible to prepare the parsley sauce and zucchini in advance (up to two days before).
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can omit the chili pepper from the parsley sauce.
With grilled salmon, you can make a tasty Lunch box with couscous and salmon !
• What can be served as an alternative side dish to zucchini?
You can prepare a tray of seasonal vegetables or classic baked potatoes !
• Can this recipe be made with other types of fish?
Of course! You can use tuna or monkfish, for example, adjusting the cooking times.
• What is the difference between farmed salmon and wild salmon?
Wild salmon has leaner meat and a more intense flavor.
• Is it true that salmon is one of the richest fish in Omega 3?
Yes: 2 portions of salmon per week of about 5-7 oz each are enough to meet the average weekly requirement of these essential fatty acids.

