name:
Turkey with Herbs and Exotic Salad
ingredients:
Turkey breast: 2.2lbs(1.1 kg)- whole
Garlic: 1tsp(5 g)
Thyme: 1tsp(4 g)
Marjoram: 4tsp(4 g)
Rosemary: 1tsp(4 g)
Basil: 5tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Lemons: 2.5oz(70 g)- (zest of 1 + juice)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Mango: 1 ½cup(330 g)- cleaned
Avocado: 9.2oz(260 g)- ripe
Greek yogurt: 0.4cup(100 g)
Dijon mustard: 2tbsp(30 g)
Mayonnaise: 5tbsp(70 g)
Fresh scallion: 1.2oz(35 g)- (about 1)
Lemon juice: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 1 hour of turkey marinating

instructions:
The turkey with herbs and exotic salad is a summer and light main dish, perfect to enjoy even cold. The delicate taste of turkey meat, enriched by an herb and lemon marinade, deliciously combines with the rich and fleshy mango and avocado salad, creating an unexpected and surprisingly tasty combination that will make your lunch break very appetizing! But despite its simplicity, the exotic flavor and the curated presentation make this recipe ideal also for more sophisticated occasions and demanding guests. You can offer the turkey with herbs and exotic salad in your Sunday menus, or use it to enrich the buffets of your terrace dinners. We are sure that with little effort you will manage to make a great impression!
Also discover the roast turkey and the pot-roasted turkey !
To prepare the turkey with herbs and exotic salad, start by preparing the marinade for the turkey breast. Place thyme, marjoram, and rosemary on a cutting board and finely chop them . Then grate the zest of half a lemon
and squeeze its juice . Now that the ingredients are ready, proceed to clean the meat: remove the fat and cartilage , then take a sufficiently large baking dish and place the cleaned turkey breast in it .
Sprinkle the top side with half of the chopped herbs , half of the grated zest , and press half of the garlic with a garlic press .
Sprinkle with salt and pepper and massage well to absorb the flavors . Then turn your turkey breast over to the other side and repeat the process with the remaining ingredients.
Sprinkle also with basil, coarsely chopped by hand, and drizzle with lemon juice . Cover with plastic wrap , and let marinate in the fridge for at least an hour. After this time, drizzle a baking tray with oil
And place the marinated turkey on it , pouring the marinade over it . Seal the tray with a sheet of aluminum foil and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 35-40 minutes.
While the turkey is cooking, prepare the salad. Cut the spring onion into rings , and soak the slices obtained in a bowl with cold water and salt for about 30 minutes , to make them more digestible as you will use them raw. Prepare the sauce: in a small bowl, place the yogurt, mustard
And the mayonnaise , and mix to obtain a homogeneous sauce . Return to the salad: peel the mango ,
remove the pit and cut the flesh into cubes . Do the same with the avocado: cut it in half, remove the pit , and peel it
and cut the flesh into cubes . Squeeze the lemon to extract the juice and pour it into the bowl along with the mango and avocado .
Add the drained and rinsed onion , and finally season with the sauce prepared earlier , keeping some aside to garnish the turkey slices. Serve your herb turkey in slices, sprinkled with a bit of sauce, and accompanied by the exotic salad .
The herb turkey can be kept in the fridge covered for 2-3 days. It can also be frozen, once cooked, if you have used fresh and not defrosted ingredients. The mango and avocado salad can be kept in the fridge covered for 1-2 days maximum.

