name:
Pasta with asparagus cream, stracciatella and bottarga
ingredients:
Fusilloni pasta: 0.7lb(320 g)
Stracciatella cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Olive patè: 1spoonful
Mullet Bottarga: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Asparagus: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to clean)
Basil: 20leaves
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare pasta with asparagus cream, stracciatella, and bottarga, start with the asparagus cleaning: remove the tougher ends , then cut them into regular rounds , keeping the tips aside. Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, then add the asparagus .
Add the tips as well , then salt and pepper to taste and sprinkle with a little water .
Cover with the lid and let the asparagus stew for a few minutes, enough time to soften them . Transfer the asparagus into a tall jug with their cooking water .
Add the washed and dried basil leaves , a drizzle of olive oil, and blend everything with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth cream without lumps . Pour the resulting cream into the same pan used to cook the asparagus .
Meanwhile, cook the fusilloni in boiling salted water for two-thirds of the time indicated on the package . Pour a ladle of pasta cooking water into the pan with the asparagus cream and keep on very low heat while you continue with the preparation. Pour the stracciatella into a bowl and season it with a dash of oil .
Flavor with a pinch of salt and mix. Drain the fusilloni into the pan and finish cooking by gradually adding the pasta water .
Add the olive paté and another ladle of hot water . Once the pasta is ready, turn off the heat and add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP .
Serve on plates garnished with dollops of stracciatella and grated bottarga to taste . The pasta with asparagus cream, stracciatella, and bottarga is ready to be served !
We recommend consuming the pasta with asparagus cream, stracciatella, and bottarga immediately.
You can prepare the asparagus cream in advance and store it in the refrigerator.
Instead of basil, you can use mint, which will give a pleasant fresh note; if you wish, you can also flavor it with grated lemon zest!
If the asparagus is very thick and hard, you can peel them to remove the tougher outer part.

