name:
Coconut Chicken Bites
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 0.9lb(400 g)
Coconut milk: ½cup(100 ml)
Lemon juice: ½
Mint: 5leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sparkling water: 0.7glass(150 ml)
Coconut flour: to taste
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus chicken marinating time: 60 minutes

instructions:
We love chicken in all kinds of sauces: we've made many recipes, from the classic breaded chicken to lemon chicken . Today we offer you a truly tasty recipe: coconut chicken bites. An original and appetizing snack with a characteristic sweet and sour taste, ideal for buffet dinners or as an appetizer. What gives the coconut chicken bites their characteristic sweet and sour flavor is the marinade made with coconut milk and lemon scented with mint leaves. After marinating, the bites are dipped in batter and then in coconut flour, creating a crispy coating. Serve these tasty coconut chicken bites with your favorite sauces: mayonnaise, ketchup, or try new flavor combinations with other flavored sauces like tartar sauce.
To prepare the coconut chicken bites, remove the fatty parts from the chicken breasts , cut the breasts in half to obtain thinner slices to cut into strips lengthwise, divide the strips in half and place them in a bowl.
Then pour the coconut milk over them , add the chopped mint leaves , the lemon juice , and season with salt and pepper.
Mix everything well, cover the bowl with plastic wrap , and let it marinate for 60 minutes. In the meantime, prepare the batter: in a bowl, put the flour and add the water , mix well until you get a smooth and homogeneous batter .
Meanwhile, prepare a tray with coconut flour. Once marinated, let the chicken bites drain from the marinade by placing them in a colander . With the help of a fork, skewer a chicken bite, then dip it in the flour and water batter and then in the coconut flour .
Then immediately fry the coconut chicken bites in hot oil for 5 minutes (13-14), turning them to brown the bites well (the oil should be very hot, at a temperature of about 356°F). Once cooked, drain them on absorbent paper to dry the excess oil . Serve the coconut chicken bites while still hot.
Store the coconut chicken bites in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 2/3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
For a lighter cooking option, you can also bake the coconut chicken bites in a static oven for 5 minutes at 482°F and then grill them for another 5 minutes.

