name:
Chicken Skewers
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Pancetta tesa: 8.5oz(240 g)- smoked 24 thin slices
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 2cups(150 g)
Rosemary: 4sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Chicken skewers are a tasty main dish and very quick to prepare. To make these meat skewers more appetizing and original, an excellent idea is to wrap the chicken pieces with slices of bacon, which, as it melts during cooking, will make the chicken pieces tender and flavorful. Additionally, each piece is seasoned with a sprig of rosemary. Furthermore, in these skewers, the chicken is alternated with slices of zucchini and mushrooms, which cook together with the chicken but remain crunchy and tasty. We have chosen to cook the chicken skewers on a cast iron grill, but if you prefer, you can cook the chicken skewers in a non-stick pan or even in the oven, as you like.
Try also these delicious variations:

Cut the chicken breast into 1-inch cubes and make 24 cubes . Wash the zucchini, remove the ends, and cut them into 0.5-inch thick slices, making 24 rounds. Wash and cut the mushrooms into 0.5-inch thick slices as well , making 24 slices. Break the rosemary into 24 small sprigs. Wrap each chicken cube in a slice of bacon ,
then insert a sprig of rosemary between the bacon and the chicken ; skewer the cube onto the skewer. After it, also skewer a round of zucchini and a slice of mushroom, then again a bacon-covered cube, zucchini, and mushroom until the skewer is filled with 3 sets of ingredients . Prepare all 8 chicken skewers in the same way. Now, take a large grill or non-stick pan, heat it well, and then place the chicken skewers on it . Do not cook at too high a temperature, but let the bacon gradually brown, allowing the chicken to cook in its own fat; turn the chicken skewers on all sides for about 15-20 minutes. Serve the chicken skewers immediately.
We recommend consuming the chicken skewers immediately, but if you wish, you can store them in the refrigerator, sealed tightly, for a maximum of one day.

