name:
Cheeseburger
ingredients:
Beef: 1.5lbs(700 g)- ground
Shallot: 2oz(50 g)- two
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Bread: 7.1oz(200 g)- 4 hamburger buns
Cheddar cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- (or other cheese) 4 slices (0.5 oz per slice)
Tomatoes: 2.8oz(80 g)- 1 large
Lettuce: 1.8oz(50 g)
Red onions: 0.7oz(20 g)
Pickles: 0.75oz(20 g)
Ketchup: 4tbsp(60 g)- or mayonnaise

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
What better excuse to gather together than to enjoy an authentic cheeseburger? Whether it's a special occasion or just a casual barbecue with friends, a cheeseburger is a must on your table! This tasty meat patty covered with melted cheese and enclosed between two soft sesame buns originated in America but is known and loved worldwide: everyone goes crazy for it, from adults to children! The cheeseburger is part of the street food tradition and is the perfect dish to prepare for a meal with friends in authentic American-style. It is a richer version of the hamburger, and more than just a sandwich, it is a true institution of American cuisine now transplanted into our country! We've seen it in literally all sauces: there are special ones like the Broccoli Burger or vegetarian ones like the chickpea hamburger. In short, something for every taste. Today we've focused on a great classic: in this recipe, we've made the cheeseburger even more delicious by adding minced beef, shallots, and spices. To complete the cheeseburger, a slice of mild, melted cheese and the classic garnishes: lettuce, tomatoes, pickles, finely sliced onion, Ketchup Sauce or mayonnaise of your choice. And for the very hungry, there's nothing better than a Double cheeseburger , perhaps accompanied by our fried sweet potatoes !
To prepare the cheeseburgers, first finely chop the two shallots and place them in a non-stick pan with a tablespoon of oil, sautéing them over low heat . Meanwhile, prepare the meat: place the ground beef in a large bowl .
Add the chopped shallots to the ground meat and mix the ingredients well with your hands . Divide the ground meat into 4 equal parts and with a spoon, place it in a ring mold about 0.8 inches high and 4 inches wide. Press the ground meat with the back of the spoon to form the patties .
Cover them and keep them in the refrigerator. Then prepare the garnishes for the cheeseburger: cut the buns in half , slice the tomato with a knife and the red onion finely .
Slice the pickles lengthwise (if you have larger pickles in brine, slice them) . Remove the patties from the refrigerator, bringing them to room temperature, then heat a grill pan and brush it with olive oil ; place the patties on the grill and cook them for 4 minutes on each side, turning them only once with a spatula: be careful not to press down on the patties while cooking them, or they will lose their juices and become drier and tougher .
After 4/5 minutes, turn the patties over and, when the cooking is almost done, add a slice of cheese , which will melt very quickly. Meanwhile, in another pan, toast the cut side of the bun for about 20 seconds . Begin assembling the cheeseburger: spread ketchup on the bread
And place the hearts of lettuce on top , then the patty with the cheese , followed by a few slices of tomato ,
of pickle and red onion . Finally, cover with the other slice of bread and serve the cheeseburgers hot immediately .


You can store your cheeseburgers in the refrigerator, sealed tightly, for up to 2 days.
Instead of ketchup, you can get creative by adding any other sauce to your liking, such as mustard, mayonnaise, or barbecue sauce. To make an excellent cheeseburger, it's also necessary to have great ground meat, possibly freshly made by the butcher, and good cheese. Additionally, if you want, you can use 12.3 oz of beef and 12.3 oz of pork sausage to make an even more flavorful cheeseburger!

