name:
Upside-down Carrot and Onion Cake
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- round
Carrots: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- from Chioggia
White onions: 1.1lbs(500 g)- from Chioggia
Brown sugar: 2spoonfuls
Fennel seeds: to taste
Salt: to taste- Cyprus black
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
The upside-down carrot and onion cake is a delicious and colorful savory tart with a delicate flavor, very simple to make. The upside-down carrot and onion cake is a delight for caramelized onion lovers and an original solution for an impeccable presentation of the dish. Our inspiration came from its sweet version with orange , which is equally beautiful to look at (and tasty to enjoy!). The upside-down carrot and onion cake, thanks to the combination of flavors from the two main ingredients, which complement each other well, is a savory tart that no one can resist tasting. The upside-down carrot and onion cake is one of the 5 recipes chosen from all those that participated in the GialloZafferano Forum contest "Venice on a plate", which invited our users to create recipes containing typical Venetian ingredients, in this case white onions and Chioggia carrots. The upside-down carrot and onion cake was then cooked at Vinitaly. This is a recipe by Marisa Serafini.
To prepare the upside-down carrot and onion cake, first clean the onions thoroughly and slice them thinly; then place them in a pan with some oil and let them wilt, then add a tablespoon of fennel seeds . Once the onions are halfway through their cooking, add a generous tablespoon of raw sugar .
Meanwhile, wash and clean the carrots and then cut them into segments of about 1 inch. Right after, put the carrots to boil for 20 minutes in plenty of water, and when they are cooked , add salt and pepper. At this point, get a round mold and brush it with oil and then sprinkle it with the remaining raw sugar ,
arrange the carrot segments upright and close to each other , leaving a bit of space between the carrots and the edge of the mold. Once the assembly of the carrots on the mold is finished, cover them with the onions , making sure to fill the space between the edge of the mold and the carrots. Cover everything with the shortcrust pastry , tucking the edge inside the mold
and brushing the surface with oil . Then bake in a preheated oven at 350°F until the surface is well browned . Once it has cooled slightly, take the carrot cake and flip it decisively onto a plate . Sprinkle the surface of the upside-down carrot and onion cake with black Cyprus salt.

