name:
Cazzilli palermitani
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- floury
Parsley: 1tuft- to chop
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
The Palermo cazzilli, also known as crocchè, are a classic of Sicilian street food, they are potato croquettes whose name comes from their typical elongated shape. The cazzilli, along with panelle (chickpea flour fritters) and Scaccia , are a typical street food dish. Although the recipe requires only a few simple ingredients, the cazzilli are one of the most exquisite foods you can enjoy in Sicilian fry shops. The preparation involves using starchy potatoes that are boiled and sieved to obtain a dense purée with which oval croquettes are formed to be fried in oil.
Try making another classic of Sicilian cuisine at home: rice arancini !
To prepare the Palermo cazzilli, start by washing and boiling the potatoes (preferably whole with the skin) in salted water, then drain them and let them cool completely (you can also cook them the night before). Peel the potatoes and pass them through a food mill taking care to obtain a fine, lump-free purée. Add salt, pepper, and chopped parsley (or mint) to the purée ,
mix well until you get a homogeneous mixture ; grease your hands with olive oil, then take a small amount of mixture (you should get a croquette the size of a middle finger) and form a cazzillo , which you will place on a tray. Continue this way until you finish the dough. Fry the cazzilli in extra virgin olive oil (or peanut oil) at about 350°F-355°F (never exceed 355°F). Start frying by testing with a single cazzillo : if it opens or absorbs too much oil remaining soft inside, you’ll need to add 2-3 tablespoons of flour, even though the original recipe does not require it, because Sicilian fry shops use a particular type of potato that does not require this addition. Fry all the cazzilli and serve them immediately!
For a good outcome of the cazzilli, it's essential that the potatoes are starchy: since the mixture does not include eggs, a dense potato purée must be obtained to maintain the elongated shape, typical of cazzilli, during frying.

