name:
Apulian Bombette
ingredients:
Capocollo: 8- thin slices
Pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)- thin slices
Caciocavallo cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- semi-aged
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1bunch
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Among the most beloved recipes of Apulian cuisine, alongside a dish of rice potatoes and mussels and a plate of fava beans and chicory , we certainly find bombette! These succulent Meat and Bacon Rolls with a melty heart originated in the Itria Valley, particularly in Martina Franca, and are traditionally grilled and enjoyed as street food, skewered on long spits. We propose the oven-baked variation to obtain excellent homemade Apulian bombette! The ideal cut of meat is capocollo because it remains moist and juicy thanks to the many veins of fat. For cheese, we chose a semi-aged caciocavallo instead of the classic canestrato. Add pancetta, parsley, and garlic to the filling, and the origin of the name bombette will become clear to you... a flavor bomb that will explode in your mouth with the first bite!
Also discover these variations of meat rolls, regional and otherwise:

To make the Apulian bombette, first, pound the slices of capocollo on a cutting board to make them even thinner , then cut them in half lengthwise and set them aside for now .
Move on to the filling: first slice the caciocavallo and then dice it . Finely chop the parsley together with the clove of garlic .
Place a slice of meat in front of you and position a slice of bacon in the center , then add some cheese cubes and a bit of the aromatic mixture .
Fold the sides of the meat slice towards the center , then roll from the bottom to the top, making sure to tighten well to seal the filling inside . Secure the ends with a toothpick and proceed in this way to form all the other rolls.
Transfer the bombette to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, then season with salt , pepper, and a drizzle of oil. Bake in a preheated static oven at 400°F for about 20 minutes, then turn on the grill for a few minutes to make them nicely golden. Remove from the oven and serve your Apulian bombette immediately !
It is recommended to consume the Apulian bombette as soon as they are ready. If necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
If you wish, you can prepare the rolls a few hours in advance by storing them in the refrigerator or freezing them raw.
If you prefer an alternative to the oven, you can cook the bombette in a pan with a drizzle of oil over low heat for about 20 minutes, turning them halfway through cooking.

