name:
Swordfish Carpaccio with Green and Pink Peppercorns
ingredients:
Swordfish: 500
Whole milk: 1.1cups(250 g)
Pink peppercorn: 5
Green peppercorns: 10
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.3tbsp(50 g)
Himalayan salt (pink): 1tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note More time for marinating

instructions:
The swordfish carpaccio with green and pink peppercorns is a flavorful fish dish, to be served either as an appetizer or as a main course, accompanied by a side of vegetables. The preparation is very simple: just marinate the swordfish slices in an emulsion of oil, milk, and green and pink peppercorns, then bake them for a few minutes. The swordfish carpaccio with green and pink peppercorns is a light dish to enjoy either cold or warm.
If you love marinated fish, also try the sea bass ceviche .
To prepare the swordfish carpaccio with green and pink peppercorns, start by slicing the swordfish. With the help of a slicer, cut the swordfish steak into 16 slices, each about 1 oz and 1/8 inch thick . To facilitate the operation, keep the swordfish steak in the freezer for an hour before slicing. If you do not have a slicer, buy pre-sliced swordfish carpaccio or have it sliced at your trusted fishmonger. Remove the skin from the swordfish with a knife and arrange the slices in a baking dish .
Start preparing the marinade: in a bowl pour the milk and the oil . Add the green peppercorns ,
the pink peppercorns and the Himalayan pink salt . Whisk the mixture to combine all the ingredients.
Pour the marinade into the baking dish where you have placed the swordfish slices (10-11) and cover with plastic wrap . The carpaccio should marinate in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours.
After this time, remove the swordfish carpaccio from the fridge and, with the aid of a spatula, lift each swordfish slice one by one , draining some of the marinade, and place them in an ovenproof dish . Bake at 350°F for no more than 5 minutes, so that the fish releases the absorbed marinade . Let the swordfish carpaccio with green and pink peppercorns cool slightly before serving.
The swordfish carpaccio with green and pink peppercorns can be stored for up to one day in the refrigerator, well covered.
You can also use thicker slices of swordfish, even up to 1/2 inch thick. In this case, leave the fish in the oven for 10 minutes. You can use the marinade for other fish as well, such as fillets of plaice or perch, or to make a salmon or tuna carpaccio. If you like raw carpaccio, then skip the baking step and serve your carpaccio after draining the marinade.
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at -0.4°F in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, as per guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

