name:
Malloreddus with clams, cherry tomatoes, and tuna bottarga
ingredients:
Gnocchetti Sardi pasta: 14.1oz(400 g)
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Tomatoes: 2.7cups(400 g)- cherry
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Garlic: ¾tsp(4 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Tuna Bottarga: 2tsp(10 g)- grated
Shallot: 0.7oz(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Easy equations in the kitchen: just as trofie are to Liguria, so are malloreddus to Sardinia. These small ridged dumplings are indeed one of the cornerstones of Sardinian cuisine. In this version, they are made unique with a classic accompaniment of the aroma of clams that evokes the sea breeze of the scenic Sardinian shores. Add some cherry tomatoes and a sprinkle of tuna bottarga, and you have it: a sophisticated first course with a balanced mix of the gentle flavor of clams and the intense, slightly bitter aftertaste of bottarga , another delicacy with an intense flavor and a slightly bitter taste, so much so that it is nicknamed the "caviar of the Mediterranean". A delicate and refined dish, these malloreddus with clams, cherry tomatoes, and bottarga are perfect for whetting the appetite of your guests!
Also, try these recipes with Sardinian gnocchi:
To prepare the malloreddus with clams, cherry tomatoes, and tuna bottarga, start by cleaning the clams. On a cutting board, tap them to release any sand inside (if sand comes out, discard the clam, as well as any with broken shells) . Then take a colander placed over a bowl and rinse them thoroughly under running water to remove any impurities. Continue this process until there is no more sand in the bowl. Then take a non-stick pan with high sides, pour in a drizzle of oil and add two garlic cloves to sauté .
When the garlic is golden brown, remove it and add the clams, cooking them over low heat. Cover the pan with a lid . When the clams start to open, add the white wine .
When they are completely opened and the wine has evaporated , take a bowl and place the strainer over it. Then drain the clams and filter the cooking liquid . Set aside a few ladles of the cooking liquid. Then take the clams, shell them, and set them aside in a small bowl. Leave some unshelled for decoration purposes . Set them aside.
At this point, proceed with preparing the cherry tomatoes. Wash them and cut them into quarters . Then finely chop the shallot . Take a non-stick pan, pour in a drizzle of oil, and sauté it, then add the cherry tomatoes . Adjust with salt and pepper, being careful not to overdo it as the clams will already be quite flavorful.
Let the cherry tomatoes soften over low heat for 3 minutes, adding a few tablespoons of the clam cooking liquid to enhance their flavor . When the clam liquid has evaporated, add the shelled clams and cook for 1 minute, being careful to mix well. Now take a pot, fill it with water, and bring to a boil. Then add the Sardinian gnocchi and cook them. When there are two minutes left, drain them.
Add the gnocchi to the pan with cherry tomatoes and clams and finish cooking, mixing well so that the ingredients combine . Then plate, decorate with the remaining unshelled clams, and grate the tuna bottarga . Your malloreddus with clams, cherry tomatoes, and tuna bottarga are now ready to be enjoyed !
It is advisable to consume the malloreddus with clams, cherry tomatoes, and tuna bottarga immediately after preparation.
However, they can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for 2 days.
Why not try adding a touch of freshness to this dish with a sprinkle of chopped parsley? The perfect final touch for decorating before serving to your guests!
The term malloreddus is a dialect word meaning "calves," although in common usage it refers to the so-called Sardinian gnocchi. Traditionally, they are made by hand with semolina flour, water, and saffron, but today their production has expanded to industrial levels.
Malloreddus are more commonly called Sardinian gnocchi, though they are also known by other names such as "ciciones," "aidos," or "cravaos."

