name:
Fake mayonnaise without eggs
ingredients:
Sunflower seed oil: ⅓cup(100 ml)
Soy milk: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Vinegar: 1spoonful
Sunflower seed oil: 3.4oz(100 ml)
Soy milk: ¼cup(50 ml)
Precooked beets: 3.5oz(100 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 0.4cup(100 ml)
Mustard: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Tomato paste: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 20.3tbsp(100 ml)
Chives: 8tsp(8 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Does saying Salmon burger with eggless mayonnaise and sautéed potatoes seem like a contradiction to you? Do you think it's impossible? GialloZafferano shows you how to create a delicate and flavorful sauce to accompany fish, meat, or vegetable dishes, made with just a few simple ingredients! This vegan mayonnaise is also ideal for those who are lactose or egg intolerant: a delicate sauce made with soy milk and sunflower seed oil, seasoned with a pinch of salt and acidulated with a tablespoon of vinegar, either white or balsamic according to your taste, or with lemon juice. Once you've prepared the basic version, you can modify the mayonnaise in many different flavors by adding your favorite ingredients: in this recipe, we suggest Fried mushrooms with beetroot mayonnaise , chives, mustard, and tomato, but we also recommend preparing the variation of Fake avocado mayonnaise ! The fake egg-free mayonnaise is a sauce to serve to give your dishes an extra boost: unleash your creativity with endless pairings... some ideas? Try it with cannellini bean balls , Fried Green Beans or coconut shrimp !
After the vegan mayonnaise, don't miss out on another delicious contradiction: the Eggless Frittata !
To prepare the fake egg-free mayonnaise, pour into a tall glass (the plastic cup of the immersion blender will work just fine) the soy milk , sunflower seed oil , add a pinch of salt and
finally a tablespoon of vinegar or lemon. Immerse the immersion blender into the glass and blend the ingredients at medium speed until the mixture thickens; it will only take a few seconds. Transfer the fake egg-free mayonnaise to a small bowl and serve it to your guests! Remember that, maintaining the same proportions, you can also use whole milk instead of soy milk and olive oil instead of seed oil.
To prepare the fake beetroot mayonnaise, first cut the pre-cooked beetroot into chunks . Proceed as above, pouring soy milk, sunflower seed oil, a pinch of salt, and finally a tablespoon of vinegar or lemon into a tall glass, then add the chopped beetroot (2-3).
Immerse the immersion blender into the glass and blend the ingredients at medium speed until the mixture thickens ; it will only take a few seconds. Transfer the fake beetroot mayonnaise to a small bowl and your sauce is ready!
To prepare the fake mustard mayonnaise, proceed as above by preparing the basic vegan mayonnaise and transferring it to a small bowl . Add the mustard , mix the two sauces, and your fake mustard mayonnaise is ready !
To prepare the fake tomato mayonnaise, proceed as above by preparing the basic vegan mayonnaise and transferring it to a small bowl. Then add the tomato paste , mix the two sauces , and your fake tomato mayonnaise is ready !
To prepare the fake chive mayonnaise, first finely chop the chive strands . Then proceed as above by preparing the basic fake mayonnaise and transferring it to a small bowl. Add the chopped chives , give it a stir, and your fake chive mayonnaise is ready !
Store the fake egg-free mayonnaise in the fridge, covered with plastic wrap, for up to 4-5 days. You can also freeze the vegan mayonnaise and thaw it in the fridge as needed.
A color suggestion: if you wish to achieve a color more similar to egg mayonnaise, add a teaspoon of turmeric to your vegan mayonnaise. It's a trick, but it works!
If you're not vegan and prefer a sauce with a stronger flavor, you can replace the soy milk with whole milk and the seed oil with olive oil, while respecting the quantities indicated in the recipe.
Looking for more egg-free recipes ? Try the fresh pasta with the egg-free tagliatelle recipe!

