name:
Veggie wrap
ingredients:
Wraps without lard: 4- (diameter 28 cm)
Carrots: 1 ¼cup(160 g)
Cucumbers: 1 ½cup(160 g)
Zucchini: 0.9cup(120 g)
Feta cheese: 0.67cup(100 g)
Mixed salad: 1.8oz(50 g)
Greek yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Cucumbers: 1 ⅛cup(170 g)
Mint: 1oz(25 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 ml)
White wine vinegar: ½tsp(3 ml)
Garlic: ½clove
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cherry tomatoes: 2cups(320 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 ml)
Brown sugar: 1 ½tbsp(18 g)
Fine salt: 1.625tsp(8 g)
Thyme: 4tsp(4 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Today GialloZafferano offers you the recipe for veggie wraps, a light dish rich in crunchy vegetables, tasty cherry tomatoes caramelized in a pan, and feta. Veggie wraps are easy to prepare and ideal as an appetizer or as a dish for an informal dinner, even for your vegetarian friends. The term "veggie" in English is the abbreviation for vegetarian. These wraps are indeed made with Piadina without lard and stuffed with fresh vegetables: carrots, cucumbers, mixed salad greens, and zucchinis. With each bite of the veggie wraps, you'll discover the delicacy of tzatziki sauce made with Greek yogurt and cucumbers, which with the addition of mint gives even more freshness to this recipe. To make your veggie wraps even more inviting, you can serve them wrapped in colorful napkins to add a touch of color to the table!
Come and discover more veg recipes:

To prepare the veggie wraps, start by making the tzatziki sauce: wash the cucumber and with a small knife remove the peel until you obtain a completely white surface . Grate the cucumber with a coarse grater , then transfer the pulp to a sieve, squeezing it well to drain the vegetation liquid .
Further chop the cucumber finely with a knife to obtain even finer pulp . Wash the fresh mint and finely chop the leaves , finally chop the half clove of garlic .
In a bowl, pour the chopped cucumber, add the Greek yogurt and mix . Then add the chopped mint and garlic , the salt, oil, and vinegar . Thoroughly blend all the ingredients until you get a homogeneous mixture. Let the sauce rest in the refrigerator for half an hour covered with plastic wrap.
Now move on to cooking the caramelized cherry tomatoes: rinse the cherry tomatoes well under running water and cut them in half . In a pan, brown the half clove of garlic with the oil. When it turns golden, add the cherry tomatoes and sauté them for 2 minutes over medium heat .
Add to the cherry tomatoes in the pan the brown sugar , salt , and thyme broken up by hand . Let the cherry tomatoes wilt over low heat for about ten minutes or until they lose almost all their water, then turn off the heat. You can replace the caramelized cherry tomatoes with confit tomatoes (for the recipe click here ).
Continue preparing the wraps by preparing the other vegetables for the filling. For cutting the vegetables you can refer to the guide Cooking school: how to cut vegetables . Start by carefully washing all the vegetables and the mixed salad greens. Peel the carrots and cut them finely into julienne strips . Proceed with the zucchinis, removing both ends , while the cucumber can be cut with or without skin as you prefer, first halved and then into thin diagonal slices .
Heat the bottom of a non-stick pan over low heat and place the piadina without lard on one side, warming them for a few seconds to prevent them from drying out. Then remove them from the heat and spread them on the heated side with plenty of tzatziki sauce . Start filling, placing in the center of each piadina the mixed salad (about 0.5 oz), cucumbers (about 1.5 oz), zucchinis (about 1 oz), and carrots (about 1.5 oz) as shown in the photos (20-21).
Add 3 oz of caramelized cherry tomatoes on top of each piadina . Finish the vegetables, then cut the feta into cubes of about 1/4 inch and add 1 oz for each piadina. Roll the piadina to create your wraps, being careful not to let the ingredients spill out .
In a non-stick pan previously heated over low heat, lightly sear the wraps obtained on all sides for a few seconds . Then remove them from the heat. To enjoy the veggie wraps more comfortably, you can cut them in half diagonally and serve them with some extra tzatziki sauce on the side .
You can store the veggie wraps in the refrigerator for 1 day provided you don't sear them outside: this way the raw ingredients won't heat up and will keep better. Freezing is not recommended. You can store the tzatziki sauce in the refrigerator in a closed jar or a bowl covered with plastic wrap for up to 2 days.
Personalization is just around the corner when the elements to combine are sauces, cheeses, and vegetables! Instead of tzatziki, for example, you could use as a base for these piadina Eggplant caviar , a very delicate cream that leaves everyone speechless. If, on the other hand, you want to change cheese, say goodbye to feta and replace it with primo sale for a delicate alternative, or with salted ricotta for a stronger alternative. If you use another cheese, don't forget to tell us the final effect!

