name:
Trofie alla Portofino
ingredients:
Trofie pasta: 12.3oz(350 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1.67cups(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Basil: 5tbsp(25 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.4tbsp(50 ml)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.2oz(35 g)- to grate
Pecorino cheese: 0.5oz(15 g)- to grate
Pine nuts: ½tsp(7 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Coarse salt: 1pinch- sea salt

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
For all those who love Ligurian pesto but are looking for tasty variations, here's a recipe from Liguria: Trofie alla Portofino. The recipe is prepared with trofie, a typical pasta from Ligurian cuisine made from durum wheat flour, which has the characteristic appearance of a small curled and elongated gnocchi. Trofie alla Portofino are flavored with a sauce made with Genoese pesto and fresh tomato sauce. In this recipe, the trofie are just "dirtied" with the tomato sauce, just enough to give a richer taste and temper the bright green color that characterizes the classic pesto. Trofie are perfect for this dressing: their tapered and curled shape perfectly retains the sauce. Trofie alla Portofino, made with fresh and seasonal ingredients, are a perfect dish for your spring menus.
Try also these delicious recipes with trofie:
To make the Trofie alla Portofino, start by preparing the pesto following the recipe for Genoese Pesto . Take a mortar (alternatively, you can use a blender if you don't have a mortar), place the garlic inside, start pounding to mince it, then add the basil leaves along with a pinch of coarse salt. Crush the basil against the walls of the mortar, rotating the pestle from left to right and simultaneously rotating the mortar in the opposite direction (from right to left). When the basil leaves release a bright green liquid, add the pine nuts and start pounding again. Add the cheeses and, lastly, the extra virgin olive oil, which should be drizzled in, always mixing with the pestle. Blend the ingredients well until you obtain a homogeneous sauce . The pesto is ready, set it aside.
Now take care of the tomato sauce: wash the cherry tomatoes, cut them in half , place a pan with a tablespoon of olive oil on the heat , add the cherry tomatoes
salt and cook the cherry tomatoes over moderate heat until they break down .
At this point, put the tomatoes in a vegetable mill . To obtain the sauce, pass them through a sieve to remove the seeds and return it to the pan .
Now add the previously prepared pesto to the obtained tomato sauce . Stir to get a well-blended sauce . Finally, prepare the trofie: place a pot with plenty of salted water on the heat, bring it to a boil and add the trofie ,
cook the trofie . When they are cooked, drain the trofie and add them to the pesto and tomato sauce . Stir well to flavor the pasta and serve the Trofie alla Portofino hot.
Trofie alla Portofino can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days, sealed in an airtight container. It is not recommended to freeze Trofie alla Portofino. If you have little time, you can prepare the sauce in advance and freeze it.
Decorate the dish with Trofie alla Portofino with a few basil leaves that will recall the fresh and intense flavor of the sauce used for the dressing!

