name:
Eggplant Carpaccio
ingredients:
Eggplant: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 10tbsp(150 g)
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 ml)
Mint: 8leaves
Basil: 6leaves
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 6 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Eggplant carpaccio is a Mediterranean dish made from grilled and marinated eggplants in an emulsion of oil and herbs. To prepare it, equip yourself with a mandoline to slice the eggplants so that you obtain slices of the same thickness effortlessly. Grill the eggplant slices to achieve a light cooking and flavor them with a marinade based on extra virgin olive oil flavored with garlic, basil, and mint. A simple and tasty recipe that softens the slightly bitter taste that characterizes eggplant. Eggplant carpaccio is a fresh and fragrant dish that lends itself to many variations and combinations (read the tip for more suggestions). Enjoy the eggplant carpaccio as an appetizer with croutons or as a side dish, to accompany grilled meat or fish.
Want to try another very tempting side dish? Enjoy the gratin eggplants , a real surprise! If instead you want something particularly simple and original then here are the eggplant pizzas .
To prepare the eggplant carpaccio, start by washing the eggplants under running water and dry them well with a towel. Now remove the stem with a knife and cut the eggplants into thin slices lengthwise, using a mandoline to obtain regular slices of the same thickness, each slice should be about 1/8 inch thick.
Once finished, place a grill pan on the stove and heat it up, place the eggplant slices on the grill , salt them , and flip them to cook on both sides (cook for a couple of minutes or until they become well-colored with the typical dark grill marks). Once done,
place the eggplants on a plate and let them cool. Now take care of the marinade: take a baking dish measuring 11 x 7 inches (alternatively, you can use a larger or smaller dish, ensuring that the eggplants are always in contact with the marinade so they absorb the aromatic seasoning). Pour the oil into the dish , the lemon juice ,
add the garlic, salt , pepper, and finally flavor with mint leaves and basil. The marinade is ready .
Now immerse the eggplants in the marinade , cover the dish with plastic wrap , and let it marinate in the refrigerator for a couple of hours. Serve the eggplant carpaccio cold as an appetizer or side dish .
Eggplant carpaccio can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for a week. It is not recommended to freeze eggplant carpaccio.
Class is not water, in fact, in this case, it could be vinegar (white wine) or juice (orange), great to add to the marinade if you want to give it a touch of acidity. If instead, you want to customize the carpaccio with herbs, you will be spoiled for choice! Parsley, thyme, chives... all delicious and highly aromatic :-)

