name:
Bell Pepper Pesto
ingredients:
Red peppers: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Pine nuts: 1.75oz(50 g)
Almonds: 1.75oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 ml)
Basil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to grate)
Garlic: ½clove
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Bell peppers are one of the most popular summer vegetables and can be served in many different ways: Stuffed Peppers with Ricotta, Eggplants, and Pine Nuts , sweet and sour , or with meat like chicken with peppers . Today we propose making a sauce with this juicy and fresh vegetable: bell pepper pesto, to dress Fusilli with bell pepper pesto , tagliatelle, stuffed fresh pasta, or even gnocchi. We have chosen red peppers, but you can also make the pesto with yellow or green ones, or a mix of colors. To make your pasta dishes even more flavorful, you can pair the bell pepper pesto with ricotta, or use walnuts instead of almonds!
To prepare the bell pepper pesto, start by roasting the peppers in the oven to make peeling easier: place the whole, previously washed red peppers on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper; bake them in a preheated static oven at 428°F for 20-25 minutes. Once cooked , place them in a food-safe bag for at least 15 minutes, then peel them .
Remove the stalk and internal seeds and cut the pepper halves . Put the peppers in the mixer , also add the pine nuts .
the basil leaves previously cleaned with a cloth ; add half a clove of peeled garlic , the blanched almonds .
and the grated Parmesan cheese . Pour in the olive oil , a pinch of salt .
then start the mixer and blend everything until you get a smooth mixture . Your bell pepper pesto is ready to be used as a seasoning for first courses or to accompany toasted bread.
Store the bell pepper pesto in the refrigerator for 3-4 days in a well-sealed glass jar. You can freeze it in small glass jars to defrost as needed, if you've used all fresh, non-defrosted ingredients.
You can also make bell pepper pesto with yellow or green peppers.

