name:
Peach Skillet Cake
ingredients:
Peach: 1
Yogurt with fruit: 1cup(250 g)- (with peach)
Sugar: ½cup(120 g)
Type 00 flour: 3cups(375 g)
Eggs: 3
Vegetable oil: 4tbsp(60 ml)
Baking powder: 4tsp(16 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low

instructions:
If you want to make a soft and fragrant cake, the first thing that comes to mind is to bake it in the oven. However, with this recipe, it won't be necessary: the peach skillet cake is cooked like an omelet, at a very low flame and with a lid. The result will surprise you: a fragrant and delicate dessert, ideal for a tasty breakfast, also try it in its autumn version with the skillet apple cake recipe!
Even on the hottest summer days or in situations where the oven can't be used, you can prepare a soft and delicious dessert for the whole family!
Discover the soft goodness of Delicious peach cake for a summer snack!
To prepare the skillet cake, start by beating the eggs with the sugar using an electric mixer (1-2); when the eggs are well beaten and frothy, add the yogurt to the mixture .
Also pour in the vegetable oil and continue to work the batter. In a separate bowl, sift the flour along with the baking powder and gradually add the dry ingredients to the batter .
Mix carefully with a spatula ; then cut the peach into small pieces and fold it into the batter .
Stir again to combine . Now butter a non-stick or ceramic skillet with a diameter of 8.5 inches, with sides tall enough, using a little butter: spread it with the help of a paper towel . Heat the skillet over low heat, then pour in the mixture .
Level it with a spatula to distribute it evenly : cook over a very low flame for about 40 minutes with the lid on ; check now and then to see if it's necessary to flip the cake before the indicated time. After the necessary time, use the same lid to flip the cake to cook it on the other side like an omelet: flip the cake onto the lid and let the uncooked side slide back into the skillet .
Cook the cake for about 10 minutes on this side as well . You can perform the toothpick test to check if the inside is dry. Once cooked, let it cool completely on a wire rack then sprinkle it with powdered sugar before serving .
You can store the peach skillet cake under a glass dome for 2-3 days. You can freeze the cake if you have used all fresh, non-defrosted ingredients.
You can also make the skillet cake with other types of fruit, such as pears, apricots, or cherries, pairing it with matching fruit yogurt or simply using plain whole yogurt.

