name:
Vegetable Crumble
ingredients:
Red peppers: ½
Yellow peppers: ½
Carrots: 1
Zucchini: 1
Fresh scallion: 2
Lemon peel: ½
Water: ¾cup(200 ml)- (warm)
Peas: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Greek yogurt: 0.6cup(150 g)
Mint: 4leaves
Vegetable broth: to taste
Almond flour: 3 ½tbsp(20 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.67cup(80 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)- (cold from the fridge)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- to grate
Rosemary: 1sprig
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
The vegetable crumble is an enticing appetizer, a savory version of the traditional English dessert here presented with a dice of vegetables instead of fruit, a creamy pea pesto, and a crunchy rosemary-flavored crumble. Served in glass dessert cups, the crumble quickly becomes an elegant finger food, with alternating textures and flavors with a fresh taste that make the vegetable crumble an original and inviting summer dish. Come discover the other sweet versions of the crumble, they will win you over!
To make the vegetable crumble, shell the peas , then in a pan sauté a clove of garlic with a drizzle of oil and add the shelled peas , cover with a lid and cook for about 10 minutes, if necessary add a ladle of vegetable broth to prevent them from drying out too much.
Salt and pepper to taste and take a couple of tablespoons of peas to mix with the other vegetables . Halve the peppers and then cut them into thin strips , trim the zucchini and dice them into small cubes ,
do the same with the carrots and then slice the spring onions into thin strips . At this point, sauté the spring onion in a pan with a drizzle of oil, then add the red peppers
and yellow ones, the carrots , cook for 5-6 minutes, then pour in the hot water or the vegetable broth and add the diced zucchini
and the two tablespoons of peas that you set aside. Continue for another 5 minutes, then adjust the salt and pepper and flavor with grated lemon zest and rosemary. Now take care of the crumble: place the flours, grated Parmesan
the cold butter in pieces , rosemary, and a pinch of salt in the mixer, pulse briefly just enough to create a sandy dough , spread it evenly on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and bake in a static oven at 320°F for 15 minutes (or in a convection oven at 285°F for 10 minutes). Once cooked, take the crumble out of the oven and let it cool .
Finally, prepare the pea cream: place the Greek yogurt in a tall container, add the peas (if you don't like it, remove the garlic clove first) season with the lemon zest and mint leaves
then blend with an immersion mixer to obtain a creamy mixture . Transfer the cream to a piping bag and pour a layer into glass dessert cups with a capacity of about 6.5 oz.
Then cover with a second layer of vegetables and finish by covering the surface with the savory crumble . The vegetable crumble is ready, garnish it with a sprig of rosemary , place it in the refrigerator until ready to serve, and enjoy at room temperature.
Store the vegetable crumble in the refrigerator for 2-3 days; you can freeze the preparation if fresh and not thawed ingredients have been used. You can store the diced vegetables and the pea cream separately in airtight containers in the refrigerator and then assemble the crumble before serving.
To achieve a perfect crumble, pay attention to the temperature, which should not be too high, otherwise the dough will burn on the outside while remaining raw inside. Vary the vegetables in your crumble based on seasonal availability to create endless delicious recipes!

