name:
Upside-down peach and amaretti cake
ingredients:
Peach: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Amaretti cookies: 1.1oz(30 g)
Caramel: ⅓cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: 7oz(200 g)
Eggs: 3
Whole milk: ½cup(100 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Baking powder: 2tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
Do you need to prepare a cake for a special occasion and are looking for a simple yet inviting and delicious recipe? The upside-down peach and amaretti cake is the dessert for you. A soft vanilla-flavored base, topped with a layer of peach slices flavored with caramel sauce and arranged in a circular pattern to create a lovely sunburst that will add a touch of elegance to this delight. Have we tempted you? Start preparing the ingredients and we’ll guide you through the process!
Want to try another special version? Discover the recipe for the upside-down orange cake !
To make the upside-down peach and amaretti cake, place the softened chopped butter and granulated sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk , turn on the whisk to mix the ingredients and obtain a cream, then add the eggs , the seeds of the vanilla bean, the sifted flour, and baking powder .
Pour the milk in a thin stream while the machine is running. Wash, peel the peaches and cut them into wedges .
Distribute the caramel at the bottom of a 11-inch diameter fluted pan , butter and lightly flour the fluted edge before arranging the peach slices in a sunburst pattern in the pan and then sprinkle the surface with the crumbled amaretti .
At this point, pour the cake batter over the peaches, level it with a spatula and bake in a static oven at 350°F for 45 minutes (or in a convection oven at 320°F for 35 minutes). Once baking is complete, remove the pan from the oven , let it cool, and then flip it onto a serving plate. Your upside-down peach and amaretti cake is ready to be enjoyed !
Store the upside-down peach and amaretti cake under a glass dome for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you don't like peaches, you can replace them with other fruits like apricots, pineapple, or apples.

