name:
Easy Baked Vegetables
ingredients:
Zucchini: 1.25lbs(300 g)
Eggplant: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Bell peppers: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Red onions: 9oz(250 g)
Oregano: 2spoonfuls- dry
Garlic: 2cloves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Here is a vegetable side dish perfect for the summer: easy baked vegetables, great to enjoy both hot and cold. We chose to use the vegetables that everyone loves: zucchini, bell peppers, eggplants, and red onions will be perfect this season! Making these baked vegetables is really simple, you just need to cut the vegetables, season them, and wait for them to be cooked and well browned before enjoying them! Baked vegetables are excellent to serve as a side dish, perfectly accompanying both meat and fish... but have you ever tried using them to fill a sandwich or focaccia?! We are sure they will surprise you! And if you are looking for other vegetable recipes, don't miss:
To prepare the easy baked vegetables, first wash them all. Trim the zucchini, cut them in half lengthwise, and then into slices about 3/4 inch thick. Move on to the bell peppers, remove the top cap and discard the part with the seeds . Cut them into quarters and also remove the white filaments .
Cut them into long strips . Meanwhile, transfer both the zucchini and the bell peppers to a fairly large baking sheet . Now move on to the onions, peel them and cut them into 1/2 inch thick slices .
Now move on to the eggplants. First cut them into slices and then into chunks . Transfer the onions and eggplants to the baking sheet with the other vegetables .
Season with oil , salt , and pepper .
Add a pinch of oregano and two cloves of garlic with their skin on . Mix very well to season all the vegetables. Bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for about 40-45 minutes or until the vegetables are well cooked and browned. Remove from the oven and serve .
Easy baked vegetables can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.

