name:
Cuttlefish with Peas and Bacon
ingredients:
Cuttlefish: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Peas: 3cups(400 g)
Sweet Pancetta: 7.1oz(200 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 7.1oz(200 g)
White wine: 2.5oz(70 g)
Taggiasca olives: 3.5oz(100 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Are you craving a fish main course that tantalizes your taste buds? The answer is in this recipe: cuttlefish with peas and bacon! We took some inspiration from the savory recipe of Cuttlefish Stew , cooking the cuttlefish with peeled tomatoes and Taggiasca olives for about half an hour! Then we also honored the timeless pairing of Cuttlefish with Peas , perfect both in summer and winter. In this preparation, however, the peas are transformed into a voluptuous cream, made in no time at all. We couldn't resist adding a touch of crunch: pancetta gently browned in the pan. All that's missing is some toasted bread from the oven to accompany it! We're sure cuttlefish with peas and bacon will become one of your go-to dishes for a delightful dinner with company or a delicious lunch!
Here are some more ideas for cooking cuttlefish and cuttlefish with peas:
To prepare cuttlefish with peas and bacon, How to clean cuttlefish , separate the tentacles and cut them into pieces . Pour the oil into a pan .
Add two garlic cloves , let the oil flavor, and then add the cuttlefish . Brown for 2-3 minutes. Deglaze with the white wine and let the alcohol evaporate completely.
Slightly crush the peeled tomatoes with your hands. Add them to the pan with the cuttlefish along with a ladle of hot water and the Taggiasca olives . Salt and pepper.
Cover with a lid and lower the heat, cooking for about 30 minutes. Slice the pancetta into strips and brown it in a slightly heated pan .
When it is golden and crispy, drain it from the fat released during cooking with a slotted spoon , place it on a kitchen towel , while keeping the fat aside. Cook the peas for 5 minutes in plenty of lightly salted water .
Drain them and pour them into a tall glass with some of their water . Blend them with an immersion blender .
Strain the puree through a sieve to make the cream smoother . Once the cuttlefish is ready , you can plate with the pea puree as the base in the center .
Add the cuttlefish on top and a sprinkle of pancetta, a drizzle of the pancetta cooking fat for flavor, and finish with a sprinkle of parsley . Serve the cuttlefish with peas and bacon immediately .
We recommend consuming cuttlefish with peas and bacon immediately. You can make the pea puree in advance and store it in the refrigerator.
For the puree, you can use fresh or frozen peas, considering the different cooking times.

