name:
Tiramisu with whipped cream
ingredients:
Ladyfingers: 8.8oz(250 g)
Coffee: 10.6oz(300 g)- cold
Mascarpone cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(125 g)- cold
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Egg yolks: 1 ½cup(90 g)- (about 5)
Rum: 0.7oz(20 g)- dark
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time in the fridge (at least 1 h)

instructions:
If tiramisù is your favorite dessert, you must try this delicious variant: tiramisù with whipped cream ! An irresistible dessert made with the classic mascarpone cream to which whipped cream is added for a richer and creamier result.
As with the traditional version, each spoonful offers a perfect balance between the sweetness of the cream , the intensity of the coffee , and the softness of the ladyfingers ... a fundamental characteristic for any respectable tiramisù.
You can choose to prepare it in a single dish as we did, or you can serve it in elegant single-serving cups to conclude a more formal dinner. However you decide to present it, tiramisù with whipped cream is the perfect choice to impress without complicating your life!
Discover other delicious tiramisù variants:
To prepare the tiramisù with whipped cream, first make the coffee and let it cool completely. In a bowl, pour in the egg yolks (preferably pasteurized), then add the sugar and beat with an electric mixer for about ten minutes , until you obtain a light and frothy mixture .
Add the mascarpone to the mixture, one spoonful at a time, while keeping the mixer running . Clean the beaters and whip the cream in another bowl until it is firm and stiff .
At this point, gently fold the whipped cream into the mascarpone mixture , mixing delicately from bottom to top to avoid deflating it .
Finally, flavor the now cold coffee with the rum . You are ready to assemble the dessert: take a 9.5 x 9.5-inch baking dish and cover the base with a spoonful of cream , covering the entire surface. Quickly dip the ladyfingers in the coffee and create a first layer; a few seconds per side will suffice, otherwise they will absorb too much liquid and release it during fridge rest.
Continue with a generous layer of cream and level. Make a second layer of coffee-soaked ladyfingers and cover with the remaining cream .
Level the surface and place in the fridge to set for at least one hour. After the resting time, dust with unsweetened cocoa to taste and serve your tiramisù with whipped cream !
The tiramisù with whipped cream can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container.
It is advisable to use pasteurized egg yolks. Alternatively, you can make our egg-free mascarpone cream recipe!
If you wish, you can enrich the tiramisù with dark chocolate shavings and chopped nuts.

