name:
Bell Pepper Cream
ingredients:
Red peppers: 14.1oz(400 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 0.6lb(250 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.7tbsp(25 g)
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
If you are a fan of bell pepper recipes, take out your notebook and jot down this recipe: only 4 ingredients for the bell pepper cream! Bell peppers, tomatoes, oil, basil (garlic, salt, and pepper to taste, we used them!). It will become one of your favorites thanks to its silky texture and enveloping flavor. The bell pepper cream will be a great ally in the kitchen to use as a condiment to enrich many dishes. For example, you could use it to dress a pasta dish or enhance your sandwiches, flatbreads, and bruschetta for a fantastic summer lunch! Making this bell pepper cream is very simple; we chose to cook the bell peppers in a pan to avoid long oven cooking times and make this preparation even faster! Discover how easy it is to prepare and enrich it with the herbs, spices, or cheeses you love most to get an original cream that fully satisfies your taste! And if you enjoyed this recipe, also try:
To prepare the bell pepper cream, start with the peppers. Clean them by removing the stem, then cut them in half lengthwise and remove the seeds and internal filaments . Then cut them into cubes . Clean the tomatoes as well, cut them in half , and remove the stem part.
Next, cut the tomatoes into cubes . Pour the oil into a pan, add a whole garlic clove , and let it sauté. Then add the bell peppers and tomatoes , and season with salt.
Flavor with a few roughly chopped basil leaves and cook over medium heat with the lid on for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. When the bell peppers are cooked, remove the garlic clove and transfer them to a tall container. Blend with an immersion mixer until you get a thick and velvety cream. Transfer the bell pepper cream to a jar and store it in the refrigerator until use.
The bell pepper cream can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1-2 days in an airtight container.
You can also use yellow or green bell peppers. You can substitute garlic with half an onion and if you prefer, add some chili pepper to the sauté.

