name:
Palermitan Cutlet
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 14.1oz(400 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1.1cups(130 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1oz(30 g)- grated
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Parsley: 0.1oz(2 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Lemons: to taste- (optional)
Mint: to taste- (optional)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The Palermitan cutlet is a tasty second course and a lighter version compared to the breaded and fried one. For this preparation, neither butter nor eggs are used, and after dipping it in the breading, the cutlet is cooked on the grill. The result is a tender slice of chicken breast (or beef if you prefer) with a crispy, parsley-scented coating. The presence of pecorino gives the breading a strong flavor, and for a fresh note, you can add some mint leaves. Alternatively, you can enrich the breading with chopped capers or tomato sauce, inspired by another Sicilian dish, the pasta with sardines . Cutlets are usually a favorite dish among children, and with this version, you can satisfy them by offering a healthier dish without sacrificing taste! You can accompany your Palermitan cutlet with crispy vegetables or succulent baked potatoes, for which you can find the recipe here ! Discover also:

To prepare the Palermitan cutlet, start with the meat. If using chicken breast, carefully remove the fattier parts and the central bone. Then, with a sharp knife, cut slices about 0.4 inches thick. Then beat them with a meat tenderizer to soften the meat and reduce its thickness . Transfer the meat slices to a plate, brush them with oil on both sides, and set them aside while you continue with the preparation . If you prefer, you can use beef, choosing the tenderest slices such as round, rump, or top sirloin, according to your taste.
Now proceed to prepare the breading: wash the bunch of fresh parsley. Dry it and finely chop the leaves using a mezzaluna or a knife . In a large bowl, place the breadcrumbs and add the chopped parsley . If you like, you can also add a few chopped fresh mint leaves. Then add the grated pecorino to the mixture .
To flavor the breading, add salt and pepper and mix everything together. Now you can take the meat set aside and pass it through the breading one slice at a time, pressing firmly with your hands to adhere the mixture (8-9).
Preheat the grill over medium heat and cook the meat for 10-15 minutes , turning it a couple of times halfway through until the meat slices are well grilled on both sides . If you prefer, you can cook the cutlet in a preheated static oven at 375°F for about 15 minutes (if using a convection oven, 340°F for about 10 minutes). The Palermitan cutlet will then be ready to be served hot . You can grate untreated lemon zest and squeeze the juice before serving, accompanied by a salad, crispy vegetables, or baked potatoes to your liking!
The Palermitan cutlet can be stored cooked for 1-2 days in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap. It can be stored raw in the fridge for 1-2 days covered with plastic wrap to be cooked later. The Palermitan cutlet can be frozen raw if fresh and not previously frozen meat has been used; it should be thawed in the refrigerator the night before cooking.
Chicken or turkey: the choice is yours! Palermitan cutlets are delicious either way, even flavored with a drop of lemon (to be added to the oil before brushing the slices)

