name:
Breadcrumb Anchovies
ingredients:
Anchovies: 9oz(250 g)
Breadcrumbs: 0.3cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Parsley: 1tuft
Garlic: 2cloves
Fine salt: 1tsp
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Among the most well-known and appreciated sea appetizers of our peninsula are undoubtedly the Marinated Anchovies , characterized by a marinade with an intense and tangy flavor. Today we offer you another recipe that features this precious bluefish, typical of the Campania region: breadcrumb anchovies! In this case, the anchovies are not marinated but flavored with an aromatic breadcrumb coating that will become golden and crispy after a short bake in the oven. Serve the breadcrumb anchovies as an appetizer and follow with another Neapolitan recipe like the tagliolini with escaped clams... you will have achieved a mouth-watering meal with little expense and effort!
Also try the Anchovies in scapece or our Crostino with Marinated Anchovies ! Discover how to prepare the Artichokes with Breadcrumbs !
To prepare breadcrumb anchovies, start by cleaning the anchovies: remove the head , open them like a book, and remove the central bone . Rinse the inside well under running water and pat the clean anchovies dry with paper towels . For more information, you can refer to the guide on how to clean anchovies .
Now put the peeled garlic cloves in a mixer , add the washed and dried parsley , and finely chop .
Pour the breadcrumbs into a bowl, add salt and the garlic and parsley mixture , then pour in the oil
and mix well . Grease a dish large enough to hold all the anchovies and place the anchovies inside, opened like a book, without overlapping .
Add a teaspoon of the breadcrumb mixture on top of each anchovy (13-14) and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 15 minutes, on the middle shelf. After this time, remove the breadcrumb anchovies and enjoy them while they are still warm!
It is recommended to consume the breadcrumb anchovies as soon as they are ready or within the same day. Freezing is not recommended.
If you want to further perfume the breadcrumb anchovies, you can add grated citrus zest to the stuffing!

