name:
Baking dish of anchovies and potatoes
ingredients:
Anchovies: 23oz(650 g)
Potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Lemons: 3slices
Sage: 3leaves
Thyme: 6sprigs
Juniper: 5berries
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
When you think of anchovies, the most common dishes that come to mind to enjoy them deliciously are Marinated Fried Anchovies or those Marinated Anchovies , for example, but also a fabulous Anchovy Parmigiana . Today we offer you another tasty baked version: the baking dish of anchovies and potatoes, with layers of crispy potatoes alternating with soft anchovy fillets flavored with herbs and lemon zest to make the preparation fragrant and aromatic. This genuine and light main course enhances the taste of this exquisite bluefish, which is found in many appetizing recipes such as the Anchovy Pie or the Orecchiette with broccoli, anchovies, and sun-dried tomatoes .
To prepare the baking dish of anchovies and potatoes, clean the anchovies: remove the head, cut the belly , open them like a book, and remove the entrails , rinse them well under running water, and then place them on a tray lined with paper towels to dry them .
Meanwhile, fill a pot with water for steaming, flavor the water with lemon slices, juniper berries , and thyme . Heat the water, and while waiting for it to boil, peel the potatoes
slice them thinly with a mandoline . When the water boils, insert the steamer basket into the pot and add the potato slices inside , cover with the lid, and cook for 5 minutes, then turn off the heat .
Elsewhere, chop the sage and thyme and place them in a bowl, add the crushed garlic , salt, and grated lemon zest .
Set aside the herbs, take an 8 x 8-inch baking dish, oil the bottom , lay down a first layer of slightly overlapping potatoes , then spread a layer of anchovies
season with the chopped herbs , continue alternating the layers until the ingredients are used up, finish with a layer of potatoes, season with the chopped herbs , and cook in a static oven preheated to 392°F for 20 minutes, then another 3-4 minutes under the grill. Once cooking is complete, take out the baking dish of anchovies and potatoes, let it cool slightly before serving .
The baking dish of anchovies and potatoes can be kept covered with plastic wrap in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day. It can be frozen if you have used fresh ingredients.
You can enrich the baking dish of anchovies and potatoes with other delicious ingredients like black olives or cherry tomatoes.

