name:
Liquorice Liqueur
ingredients:
Licorice powder: 3.5oz(100 g)
Brown sugar: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Water: 2cups(500 g)
Pure alcohol: 2.7cups(500 g)- at 95°

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
No dinner can truly be concluded without first serving a liqueur at the end of the meal, and it will be even more appreciated if homemade, like our liquorice liqueur, made with a root with an unmistakable flavor. Dubbed the black gold of Calabria for its characteristic color, liquorice is available in many forms, from typical sticks to the very famous candies. And thanks to the powdered extract and our simple steps, you can achieve an entirely homemade liquorice liqueur, perfect for beautifully ending an evening with your friends... and to fully enjoy all its aroma? Serve it chilled and vary the flavors by offering other tastes, following our homemade liqueur recipes:
To prepare the liquorice liqueur, start by making the syrup: pour the brown sugar into a saucepan , add the water , and bring to a boil over medium heat .
Once the sugar has completely dissolved, lower the heat to a minimum and add the liquorice powder , stir with a whisk until it dissolves: it will take a few minutes. Then turn off the heat and blend everything with a mixer to best amalgamate the flavors and eliminate any lumps.
Strain the mixture directly into a bowl and let it cool completely. When it's cold, add the alcohol and incorporate it by mixing with a whisk. To achieve a clear liqueur, you will need to skim the mixture .
At this point , all that remains is to bottle your liquorice liqueur (11-12), perhaps to gift it to your friends as well as for your pantry reserve!
The liquorice liqueur can be stored for about 90 days in the pantry or refrigerator. If you prefer, it can also be stored in the freezer, but if you choose this option, leave it at room temperature for a few minutes before serving.
The liquorice liqueur can be enjoyed as soon as it's prepared; however, to best appreciate its aroma, we recommend waiting about 15 days before serving it!

