name:
Soft Coconut and Chocolate Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2tbsp(10 g)
Eggs: 3
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Vegetable oil: ½cup(100 g)
Yogurt with fruit: ½cup(125 g)- (coconut)
Water: 8.1tsp(40 ml)
Shredded coconut: 1 ¼cup(100 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Shredded coconut: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Do you love coconut? Then this dessert recipe is just for you! The soft coconut and chocolate cake combines the deliciousness of cocoa with the exotic flavor of coconut in a mix of soft and fragrant texture, inspired by two of the most beloved cakes, the marble and the Coconut Bundt Cake ones. Perfect for breakfast, but also great as a dessert, this chocolate-coconut cake will pleasantly surprise you with its soft and aromatic flavor. Gift it to friends, prepare it for family or a party, it will be ideal for any occasion!
Also discover our Coconut cake , a real delight!
To prepare the soft coconut and chocolate cake, first break the eggs into a bowl. Then add the sugar and beat everything with electric whisks until you get a fluffy and frothy consistency . At this point, add the yogurt
and gently mix with a spatula . Then add the vegetable oil and mix again. Then sift the all-purpose flour inside ,
mix again gently from bottom to top with the spatula . Add the water and the sifted baking powder . Mix again without deflating the mixture.
Finally, add the coconut flour and mix one last time . Then pour 3/4 of the mixture into a 9-inch pan .
Sift the cocoa into the remaining batter and mix to absorb it . Use a spoon to transfer it into the pan, creating 4 mounds .
Using a long skewer, create the typical marbled effect (16-17). Then bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40 minutes. Once cooked, take the cake out and let it cool before removing it from the pan.
At this point, sprinkle the surface with powdered sugar and shredded coconut .
The soft coconut and chocolate cake can be stored for 2-3 days under a glass dome.
For a more indulgent variant, you can add dark chocolate chips to the batter.

