name:
Fusilli with fresh tuna and bottarga
ingredients:
Fusillotti: 3cups(320 g)
Tuna: 10.5oz(300 g)
Mullet Bottarga: 1.75oz(50 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Thyme: 3sprigs
Oregano: 3sprigs
Garlic: 2cloves
Black sesame seeds: to taste
Sesame seeds: to taste- egg whites
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Fusilli with fresh tuna and bottarga is an easy and quick-to-prepare fish-based first course. A recipe ready in minutes that suits many occasions, both formal and informal, thanks to the addition of bottarga. Our bottarga, made from mullet, is a precious ingredient that gives this dish an intense sea flavor. But how do you use bottarga? You just need to add it away from the heat; you can choose whether to add it only as a decoration on the plate or mix it in the pan with the cooked pasta. Today, we did both for an even more intense flavor. We've crafted a truly simple pasta with fresh tuna cubes quickly sautéed in the pan, keeping them tender and juicy. The lemon zest adds a unique aroma and completes the dish perfectly. Make our fusilli with fresh tuna and bottarga and discover how delicious they are! Here are more pasta dishes not to miss:

To prepare fusilli with fresh tuna and bottarga, first place a pot of salted water on the stove to cook the pasta. Then cut the tuna into slices and then into cubes about 3/4 inch . Transfer to a bowl and season with oil .
Add also salt and pepper. Add about half of the aromatic herbs, using only the leaves , and finally add white and black sesame seeds .
Once the water reaches a boil, toss in the fusilli and cook them for the time indicated on the package. In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil with a garlic clove and add the rest of the aromatic herbs . Once hot, also add the tuna .
Wait 1-2 minutes and toss it without stirring to avoid breaking the cubes . Then transfer it to a bowl , removing the herb sprigs and the garlic clove. Drain the pasta al dente and transfer it to the same pan where you just cooked the tuna .
Add a ladle of cooking water , the grated zest of a lemon , and a drizzle of oil .
Turn off the heat, grate a good amount of bottarga inside and toss everything together . Plate and garnish with the tuna cubes .
Add a little more lemon zest and grated bottarga . Your fusilli with fresh tuna and bottarga are ready to be served !
We recommend serving fusilli with fresh tuna and bottarga immediately. Alternatively, you can store any leftover pasta in the refrigerator for one day.
You can replace the tuna with swordfish. If you prefer, you can deglaze the fish with white wine. Instead of lemon, you can use lime or omit it.

