name:
Irish coffee
ingredients:
Coffee: 12.7oz(360 g)- hot
Whisky: 3.5oz(100 ml)- Irish
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(125 g)- cold
Whole cane sugar: 4tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
It was October 1943: the first international flights between Europe and the United States were on seaplanes departing from the village of Foynes, Ireland. That day, a severe storm forced one of these seaplanes to return to base to wait for better weather conditions. The passengers, understandably tired and cold, were welcomed into the terminal's restaurant, and chef Joe Sheridan decided to offer them a special drink to warm them up and lift their spirits. He added Irish whiskey to hot coffee (a novel combination at the time) and when a delighted passenger asked if it was Brazilian coffee, Sheridan replied, " No, it’s Irish coffee! " Thus was born one of the most famous drinks in the world, an iconic symbol of Ireland but also particularly appreciated across the Atlantic. It didn't take long for the news of this innovative drink to reach the United States, particularly San Francisco, where it was tried and retried until it was faithfully replicated, both in taste and presentation! The layer of cream that characterizes Irish coffee is not as easy to achieve as it may seem, and at the end of the recipe, you can find some tips to achieve a result worthy of the original. Prepare a themed menu with Irish stew , Colcannon , and a delicious Guinness chocolate cake , then toast with a real caife Gaelach ... what better way to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day? Cheers!
To make Irish coffee, first prepare the coffee using a moka pot. Meanwhile, pour the fresh cream into a bowl and whip it with an electric mixer or a hand whisk for no more than 3 minutes: it should thicken slightly . Set the cream aside for a moment and heat the glass you have chosen to use for this recipe, then boil some water in a saucepan, pour it into the glass , and empty it as soon as it becomes warm. Add a teaspoon of raw cane sugar ,
add 1 oz of whiskey and mix well with a teaspoon . Pour 3 oz of hot moka coffee until you reach about 4/5 of the glass and mix again.
At this point, pour the semi-whipped cream into the glass, letting it fall first on the back of a teaspoon and gradually raising it as you pour : in this way, the cream will form a separate layer and not sink into the liquid. Your Irish coffee is ready to be served and sipped !
It is recommended to consume Irish coffee immediately while it is still warm.
If you want to make your Irish coffee more indulgent, you can add chocolate shavings or chopped hazelnuts on top of the cream, or you can flavor it with a sprinkle of nutmeg!
As is often the case, the simplest recipes are those that hide the most pitfalls. In this case, the most delicate operation is adding the cream so that it stays on the surface... here are some tricks to achieve a perfect result!
Use a tulip glass: it will help maintain the right proportion between the ingredients.
The cream should not be whipped too much nor too little: it must be slightly thick but still fluid.
Do not omit the sugar: it is essential to prevent the cream layer from sinking.
Also, remember that Irish coffee should never be stirred but sipped slowly through the cream layer!

