name:
Flavored Water
ingredients:
Water: 8 ½cups(2 l)
Fresh ginger: 1.75oz(50 g)
Cucumbers: 0.7oz(20 g)
Mint: to taste
Raspberries: ⅓cup(40 g)
Rosemary: to taste
Lemon peel: 1
Apricots: 2
Plums: 0.75oz(20 g)
Lime: 0.4oz(10 g)
Wild fennel: to taste
Blackberries: ¼cup(40 g)
Nectarines: 1oz(30 g)
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + resting time in the refrigerator (a whole night)

instructions:
"You should drink 2 liters of water a day." This is the constant mantra of nutritionists and doctors: water is good for you, it accelerates metabolism, reduces water retention... but certainly, you're not always motivated to fill up your empty glass. So, for the past few years, especially in summer, the counters of bars have been filled with flavored waters with herbs and fruits, a valid alternative to a sweetened refreshing drink or iced tea! We suggest a DIY flavored water that will need only a night of rest in the fridge to allow infusing fruits and vegetables to release aromas and scents. Rosemary and raspberries, blackberries and peaches, ginger and cucumber are some combinations we propose for a refreshing, energizing, antioxidant, Digestive Canary , or simply fruity flavored water.
And when it's cold? With the ginger and lemon herbal tea , you will fill up on benefits even in winter!
For the cleansing flavored water with cucumber and ginger, start with the latter: clean the root and slice the flesh thinly . Then wash and peel the cucumber using a vegetable peeler: start with a long strip ,
then continue with a strip yes and one no ; finally, slice the cucumber into very thin rounds . Wash, pat dry, and pluck the mint leaves. Take a clean glass bottle (or a pitcher if you prefer) and fill it with the cucumber slices ,
the ginger , a few sprigs of fresh mint , and pour in about 2 cups of still water . Store in the fridge for at least one night to allow the ingredients to infuse their aromas.
To prepare the digestive flavored water with raspberries, lemon, and rosemary, take an untreated lemon, wash and dry it, then peel the zest, taking only the yellow part, making a single spiral (1-2). Gently wash the raspberries and rinse the fresh rosemary. Then place the lemon zest in a clean glass bottle (or pitcher)
and the raspberries , add 3 or 4 sprigs of rosemary . Pour in 2 cups of water and place in the fridge for at least one night to allow it to infuse sufficiently .
For the "remineralizing" flavored water, wash the plums, then cut them down to the pit and continue around the fruit to obtain wedges . Wash and slice the lime to obtain thin slices (you will need about 0.35 oz of lime in total) ;
wash the apricots, halve them to remove the pit , then place them in a clean glass bottle (or pitcher) , add the plums
and the lime , then wash, dry, and add the fennel fronds . Finally, pour in 2 cups of water and place the bottle in the refrigerator for one night .
For the "refreshing" flavored water with peaches and blackberries, take the peach and wash it thoroughly, then cut down to the pit and continue around the fruit to obtain wedges . Gently wash the blackberries, then place them in a glass bottle (or pitcher) ,
also add the peach wedges and the washed and dried fresh thyme . Pour in 2 cups of water and let the flavored water rest in the fridge for at least one night so the fruit releases its aromas .
It is recommended to drink the flavored water within a couple of days.
Freezing is not possible.
For these flavored waters, you can also opt for the use of sparkling water and mix scents and flavors to your liking. All flavored waters, besides being drunk in the morning or at any time of the day, are also perfect for meals!

