name:
Basil Liqueur
ingredients:
Basil: 2 ½cups(50 g)
Pure alcohol: 1cup(250 ml)- 90° proof
Water: ⅔cup(150 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + maceration time (40 days) and storage before use

instructions:
It is the main ingredient of the traditional pesto alla genovese and it cannot be missed on pizza and in the classic tomato sauce to give that unmistakable aromatic touch that characterizes it: we are talking about basil. Perhaps not everyone knows that besides using it as an aroma in dishes, you can make a fabulous liqueur perfect for digesting and beautifully completing your meals: basil liqueur. Choose fleshy, bright, untreated leaves and let them macerate in the sugar syrup with patience, just enough to release a pleasant emerald green hue and a vigorous scent. Once you try it, basil liqueur will become a beverage to always keep in the pantry or in the fridge if you want to offer it fresh to friends and family for a sweet end of meal or as a Digestive Canary !
If you love homemade liqueurs, try these variants as well:

To make the basil liqueur, first gently wash and dry the untreated basil leaves, place them inside a container with a lid . Cover them with all the alcohol indicated , carefully close the container and let them macerate for at least 20 days in a cool place away from sunlight.
After the maceration time, make the syrup: pour the water into a saucepan , add the granulated sugar and bring to a boil, stirring to dissolve the sugar , then let it cool.
Pour the cooled syrup into the jar with the basil leaves left to macerate . Close it again and store for another 20 days away from direct sunlight. After the resting time, take the jar, pour the beverage into another jar filtering it with a sieve to retain the basil leaves .
The basil liqueur is ready, you can bottle it in the appropriate bottles with the help of a funnel , making sure to close them with a screw or cork cap . Wait a few days before consuming it, placing the bottle in the fridge. Serve your aromatic basil liqueur as a digestive liqueur after a meal .
The basil liqueur can be stored for about 90 days in the pantry or refrigerator. If you prefer, it can also be stored in the freezer, but if you choose this option, leave it at room temperature for a few minutes before serving.
To obtain a more aromatic liqueur, you can add some untreated lemon zest along with the basil leaves.

