name:
Couscous with Eggplant Meatballs in Sauce
ingredients:
Eggplant: 2
Breadcrumbs: ¾cup(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Eggs: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Tomato purée: 1.67cups(400 g)
Onions: 1
Basil: to taste
Couscous: 1.1cups(200 g)
Vegetable broth: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Saffron: 1bag

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + couscous resting time (5 minutes)

instructions:
Couscous with eggplant meatballs in sauce is a unique dish with intense flavors and Mediterranean aromas. It is a perfect recipe for when you crave something delicious yet wholesome. A meeting of Middle Eastern cuisine and Italian tradition, combining the exotic with the comfort of home cooking. The meatballs are made with eggplants sautéed and well browned, which, once dipped in the tomato sauce, absorb all the flavor of the sauce and become even softer and juicier. The couscous is prepared with saffron and vegetable broth, becoming colorful and fragrant. It is ideal for a family lunch or a dinner with friends and will win over even the most skeptical and traditionalist. If you've never tried couscous with eggplant meatballs in sauce, now is the time to do it!
If you love couscous, you can't miss these recipes:
To prepare couscous with eggplant meatballs in sauce, first prepare the vegetable broth following our recipe. Remove the stem from the eggplants and cut them first into slices and then into cubes . In a pan, pour the oil and cook the eggplants , a little at a time, on high heat until they are well browned.
Transfer them from time to time to absorbent paper to remove excess oil, and let them cool slightly. Place them in a bowl and add the breadcrumbs and parmesan cheese .
Add the egg , season with salt and pepper .
Add the minced garlic and chopped parsley and mix until you get a homogeneous mixture .
Then shape the meatballs and set aside . In a pan, pour the oil, add the garlic and chopped onion and sauté over medium heat for a few minutes, until the onion is golden.
Add the tomato sauce , a few basil leaves, and cook slowly for 10-15 minutes. Remove the garlic and add the meatballs .
Cook for another 10-15 minutes, turning occasionally . In a bowl, put the couscous, season with salt , and add the saffron .
Cover with the broth , seal with plastic wrap or a lid, and let it rest for 5 minutes. Once the time has passed, fluff the couscous with a fork .
Serve and complete with a few basil leaves . The couscous with eggplant meatballs in sauce is ready to be served .
Couscous with eggplant meatballs in sauce can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for up to 2 days.
For a bolder touch, you can add a pinch of smoked paprika, cumin, or curry to the sauce, playing with spices based on your taste and the inspiration of the moment. For a more rustic version or with more fiber, you can replace classic couscous with whole wheat, spelt, or even corn and rice couscous for a gluten-free dish.

