name:
Cucumber Boats
ingredients:
Cucumbers: (300 g)
Red onions: 5.3oz(150 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1.3cups(200 g)
Stale bread: 7.1oz(200 g)
Taggiasca olives: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
White wine vinegar: to taste
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
The cucumber boats are the ideal appetizer for a genuine and light summer aperitif, perfect for a buffet with friends or for a dinner focused on healthy and tasty cuisine. Thanks to the freshness of seasonal cucumbers, this dish is ideal for those looking for an easy and quick recipe, to be prepared in just a few minutes without the need for cooking.
The boats are filled with a delightful panzanella made of cherry tomatoes, onion, olives, and stale bread, enriched with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil and a splash of vinegar for a delicate acidic note. Fresh and original, these cucumber boats will bring a touch of color to your table!
Here are other tasty cucumber recipes :
To prepare the cucumber boats, clean and slice the red onion into julienne strips, then soak in cold water for 10 minutes . Use a vegetable peeler to peel the cucumbers in alternating strips , then cut them into pieces about 4 inches long .
Divide them in half lengthwise . Scoop out the cucumber flesh with a melon baller and set it aside along with the cucumber shells which will become your "boats" .
Cut the cherry tomatoes into quarters and place them in a bowl, then season with 2 tablespoons of oil , salt , and pepper.
Add the Taggiasca olives , drained onions , and cucumber flesh .
Cut the dry bread into cubes about 1/2 inch and add to the bowl with the rest of the ingredients . Dress with vinegar, add a fragrant touch with fresh basil, and mix well, then let rest for at least 10 minutes to absorb the flavors. Stuff the cucumber shells with the panzanella and finish with a drizzle of oil. Your cucumber boats are ready to be served .
We recommend consuming the cucumber boats immediately.
For those who enjoy stronger flavors, anchovies or capers can be a great addition to the boat's filling!

