name:
Meloncello
ingredients:
Melon: 4 ¼cups(600 g)- (netted or cantaloupe)
Pure alcohol: 13oz(370 g)- 96% ABV
Whole milk: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Vanilla bean: 1- the seeds

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + maceration time (8 days) and resting time (7-10 days)

instructions:
The melon instantly evokes summer, whether it takes the form of ice cream , in Melon salad , or paired with the inseparable ham ... but with the meloncello recipe, you can savor its unmistakable sweetness all year round! This delightful melon cream is a homemade liqueur, perfect to serve chilled as a digestif at the end of a meal, perhaps as an alternative to the classic limoncello cream . A homemade liqueur with a dense and velvety texture, not too alcoholic and characterized by a fresh and delicate aroma. Choose a nice ripe melon and get to work... in a few days, it will transform into a fantastic meloncello!
Don't miss these homemade liqueurs:

To prepare the meloncello, first cut the melon into slices , remove the seeds and the peel , and cut the flesh into cubes . You will need about 12 oz of melon flesh.
Transfer the melon to a bowl and cover it with the alcohol , then close with plastic wrap and let it macerate for 8 days at room temperature, stirring once a day .
After the maceration time, pour the milk and sugar into a small pot , add the vanilla bean seeds and heat to dissolve the sugar, then turn off the heat and let it cool .
In the meantime, strain the melon and set the alcohol aside, then blend the flesh with an immersion blender to make a puree .
Strain the melon puree by pressing with a spatula through a sieve to separate the solid part from the liquid part . Combine the liquid with the reserved alcohol and mix.
At this point, pour in the sweetened milk and blend with the immersion blender to mix everything . Transfer the mixture into the bottle, place it in the freezer, and wait about 7-10 days before tasting your meloncello !
The meloncello can be stored for about 3 months in the freezer or refrigerator.
If you prefer, you can substitute the milk with fresh liquid cream to achieve a thicker consistency.
You can flavor your melon cream with lemon zest instead of the vanilla bean.

