name:
Spelt Salad with Zucchini and Ricotta
ingredients:
Pearled farro: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Zucchini: 1cup(200 g)
Basil: 10tsp(30 g)
Peeled almonds: ⅛cup(20 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Water: 1tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.6cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
The spelt salad with zucchini and ricotta is a light and balanced main course. Spelt, with its firm texture and rustic flavor, is the ideal base to welcome a creamy sauce made with seasonal zucchini, rich in vitamins and minerals. The quenelles of Homemade Ricotta added at the end give extra creaminess and freshness, as well as an elegant and refined appearance!
A simple and harmonious dish, where each element is enhanced, and which is suitable for various occasions... the spelt salad with zucchini and ricotta can also be endlessly customized and is so easy to prepare that you'll want to offer it often during the summer and spring seasons!
Don't miss these tasty variations of spelt salad:
To prepare the spelt salad with zucchini and ricotta, first bring salted water to a boil and cook the spelt according to the package instructions . Meanwhile, cut the zucchini into chunks .
In a small saucepan, heat the oil with the garlic , then add the zucchini . Season with salt and pepper , then cook over medium heat for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Meanwhile, toast the almonds in a pan.
Drain the spelt and let it cool on a baking tray . After the zucchini cooking time has elapsed, add the basil and the toasted almonds .
Add the grated Parmesan , the oil , and the water. Blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream . Set aside.
In a bowl, put the ricotta and season with oil , salt, and pepper . Mix everything with a spoon .
Transfer the now cool spelt to a bowl, then pour in the zucchini cream and mix . At this point, plate it .
With the help of 2 spoons, form quenelles of ricotta and place them on the spelt . Finish with a few marjoram leaves and your spelt salad with zucchini and ricotta is ready to be served !
The spelt salad with zucchini and ricotta can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for 1-2 days.
The zucchini cream can be frozen and consumed within 7 days.
You can replace the ricotta with robiola, stracchino, or fresh goat cheese.
As an alternative to zucchini, you can choose grilled eggplant, peas, carrots, or asparagus: the important thing is to maintain a creamy consistency.
Instead of basil, you can use mint for an even fresher note!

