name:
Pasta with zucchini flower pesto and prawns
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Shrimp: 0.6lb(250 g)- (to clean)
Zucchini flowers: 0.7oz(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: 1pinch
Zucchini flowers: 6.3oz(180 g)
Almonds: ⅓cup(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.3cup(80 ml)
Lemon juice: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Pasta with zucchini flower pesto and prawns is an original and tasty first course that will tantalize the most curious palates. The zucchini flowers, traditionally used for stuffed preparations, are transformed into a velvety and flavorful pesto, offering an innovative version of a timeless condiment. In this recipe, we chose to pair the zucchini flower pesto with the delicacy of prawns for a gourmet dish with a summer flavor. A perfect alternative for those looking for pasta different from the usual, ideal for an elegant dinner or a lunch inspired by Mediterranean cuisine. Creamy and flavorful, the pasta with zucchini flower pesto and prawns will surprise your guests with its uniqueness!
Here you will find other tasty variations of this recipe:
To prepare pasta with zucchini flower pesto and prawns, start with the pesto: clean the flowers with a brush or a slightly damp cloth, then open them and remove the internal pistil . In a mortar, place the peeled garlic clove and the almonds .
Add a pinch of salt and crush with the pestle until you get a fine consistency .
Add the zucchini flowers in the mortar and gently crush until you get a homogeneous mixture . Add 1/2 cup of grated Parmesan cheese and continue to work on the pesto, mixing well with the pestle.
Finally, pour 1/3 cup of extra virgin olive oil and mix again until you get a smooth and homogeneous cream . Complete with a few drops of lemon juice to taste .
Meanwhile, clean the prawns by removing the shell . Prepare the sauté: in a pan, heat a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil and a garlic clove with some thyme leaves . Lightly fry until the garlic turns golden. At this point, add the prawns .
Add the 20 grams of zucchini flowers , salt, pepper, and sauté for 3 minutes over high heat . Bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the linguine until al dente .
Thin the pesto with a ladle of pasta cooking water and drain the linguine here al dente . Mix well to coat the pasta evenly .
Plate the linguine by adding the pesto , the prawns with zucchini flowers sautéed in the pan , and a few fresh thyme leaves. The pasta with zucchini flower pesto and prawns is ready to be served !
We recommend consuming the pasta with zucchini flower pesto and prawns immediately.
The zucchini flower pesto can be stored in the refrigerator inside an airtight container (preferably glass) for 2 days.
If you prefer, you can replace the prawns with shrimp for an equally tasty dish!

