name:
Pasta with Sun-Dried Tomatoes
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Dried tomatoes: 5.3oz(150 g)
Taggiasca olives: 1oz(30 g)- pitted
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pasta with sun-dried tomatoes is a very quick and super tasty main course that you can prepare in the time it takes to cook the pasta! It's one of those recipes to always keep handy, especially when you're short on time but don't want to sacrifice something good.
You'll need very few ingredients to make it: sun-dried tomatoes, which are notable for their meaty texture and bold flavor, and taggiasca olives that, along with garlic and chili pepper, create a rich and aromatic sauce. Perfect for a casual dinner with friends or a quick lunch, pasta with sun-dried tomatoes is a clever idea rich in taste and personality that satisfies everyone with minimal effort!
If you're looking for other main courses with sun-dried tomatoes, also try:
To prepare pasta with sun-dried tomatoes, first cut the sun-dried tomatoes into strips . Remove the seeds from the chili pepper and chop it into pieces . In a pan, pour the oil, add the crushed unpeeled garlic, and chili pepper , and sauté for a few minutes.
Meanwhile, cook the pasta in plenty of salted water . Add the sun-dried tomatoes and taggiasca olives to the pan . Pour a ladle of pasta cooking water into the pan and cook on low heat for the pasta cooking time.
Remove the garlic and drain the pasta directly into the pan . Add the chopped parsley and mix.
Plate the pasta, dress with the sauce , and finish with more chopped parsley . Your pasta with sun-dried tomatoes is ready to be enjoyed !
Pasta with sun-dried tomatoes is excellent when freshly prepared; if there's any left, you can store it in the fridge in an airtight container for up to 2 days.
To add a crunchy note, you can finish the dish with some breadcrumbs toasted in a pan with oil and garlic.
If you like more intense flavors, try adding a couple of oil-packed anchovy fillets to the initial sauté!

