name:
Light veal with tuna sauce
ingredients:
Veal: 1.3lbs(600 g)- round cut
Onions: 1
Carrots: 1
Rosemary: 1sprig
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Garlic: 1clove
Cloves: 4
White wine: 0.42cup(100 g)- dry
Coarse salt: to taste
Water: 8 ½cups(1.5 l)
Low-fat Yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Tuna in water: 3.5oz(100 g)
Capers: 1tsp(5 g)
Anchovies in oil: 2
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
White pepper: to taste
Caper berries: to taste- for garnish

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Have you ever tried light veal with tuna sauce? If the answer is no, perfect, you've come to the right place! The veal with tuna sauce is one of the most iconic dishes of Italian tradition, loved for its creaminess and the bold flavor of the sauce. But what if we told you there is a light, fresh version that's perfect even for those following a balanced diet? Our light veal with tuna sauce retains all the taste of the classic Piedmontese dish, but with a revamped sauce made from low-fat yogurt, without mayonnaise and therefore with less fat.
Ideal to serve cold on the hottest days or as a refined appetizer, this light veal with tuna sauce is the perfect solution for those seeking flavor and lightness in a single dish. The tender meat is accompanied by a soft and flavorful tuna cream, but more delicate and balanced, designed to enhance the flavors without being heavy.
Discover here other delicious recipes for your light menus:
To prepare the light veal with tuna sauce, start by cleaning and roughly chopping the carrot and onion . Remove the surface connective tissues from the veal using a smooth blade and being careful not to remove meat .
Then place the piece of meat in a large pot with water and season with bay leaf, rosemary , onion, carrot , cloves, and garlic .
Pour in the white wine and add salt . Turn on the stove and let it reach a boil, during cooking remove the foam that forms on the surface .
At this point, cover with a lid and let it simmer for 30-35 minutes or until the meat reaches an internal temperature of 149°F . Once the meat is cooked, drain it and let it cool completely, covering with plastic wrap .
Meanwhile, prepare the light tuna sauce: in the mixer bowl, pour the yogurt along with the tuna (drained) and the anchovies .
Add the capers, oil , white pepper , and blend until you obtain a smooth sauce .
At this point, you can thinly slice the piece of veal and plate it, garnishing with the sauce and caper flowers . Your light veal with tuna sauce is ready !
The light veal with tuna sauce can be stored for 1-2 days at most in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap.
Preferably keep the sauce separate and pour it on right before serving.
Freezing is not recommended.
To ensure the light veal with tuna sauce is extremely tender, we recommend measuring the meat's temperature. If you don't have a thermometer, you can proceed this way: calculate 30 minutes of cooking for every 1.1 lbs of veal.
If you want to add a touch more flavor, blend the carrot, and perhaps the onion, into the light tuna sauce!

