name:
Grandma's Tuna-Stuffed Eggs
ingredients:
Eggs: 6- very fresh
Tuna in oil: 1.8oz(50 g)- (drained weight)
Salted capers: 0.3tsp(5 g)
Anchovies: 1fillet- in oil
Lemon juice: 1tbsp(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Caper berries: 3
Chives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Grandma's tuna-stuffed eggs are one of those dishes that taste like memories, of skilled hands, of lunches prepared with calmness and love... the perfect appetizer for family Sundays, but also for the Easter menu, for example! An easy and quick recipe without mayonnaise, which in this version regains all the charm of old-fashioned cooking. The boiled eggs become soft shells to be filled with a creamy filling made of tuna, yolks, capers, and anchovies, simply obtained by blending all the ingredients together. Let yourself be won over by the genuine goodness of Grandma's tuna-stuffed eggs... ideal for any occasion, even to delight the grandchildren when they come for lunch, of course!
Also try these variations of stuffed eggs:

To prepare Grandma's tuna-stuffed eggs, start by placing the eggs in a fairly large saucepan with plenty of water . Bring to a boil and let them simmer for 9 minutes from that moment. After this time, cool them under fresh water and then tap the tip of the shells on a cutting board ; this way, you can easily peel the boiled eggs .
Cut them in half, being careful not to damage the egg whites that will serve as a container . Transfer the yolks into the blender along with the drained tuna and the anchovies .
Add also the desalted capers , the lemon juice , and the oil .
At this point, turn on the mixer and blend until you get a smooth cream. Transfer the cream into a pastry bag with a star nozzle and fill the egg whites . Arrange the eggs on a serving plate and garnish with halved caperberries and chopped chives. Your Grandma's tuna-stuffed eggs are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume Grandma's tuna-stuffed eggs immediately. If necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
To give more fragrance to your Grandma's tuna-stuffed eggs, you can garnish them with grated lemon zest or freshly ground pink pepper. If you don't like anchovies, you can omit them, maybe increasing the amount of tuna. If desired, you can flavor the cream with chives or other aromatic herbs, making sure to add them to the already blended cream.

