name:
Chinese Vegetarian Dumplings in a Pan
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Water: 2cups(150 g)- at room temperature
Fine salt: 1pinch
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Potatoes: 1.3cups(200 g)
Carrots: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Fresh scallion: 1cup(100 g)
Peas: ⅓cup(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Fresh ginger: to taste
Soy sauce: ¼cup(50 g)
Sesame oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Sunflower seed oil: to taste
Teriyaki sauce: to taste
Chervil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 35 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
The Chinese dumplings are a true delicacy of Oriental cuisine! They are very similar to the Japanese gyoza , but differ in the texture of the dough and the taste of the filling, which can be meat, shrimp, mixed, or vegetables. Our recipe for Chinese vegetarian dumplings in a pan is inspired by this tasty specialty to offer you a variant to prepare at home entirely with your own hands! For the filling, we used easily available ingredients: carrots, zucchini, potatoes, onions, and peas, flavored with garlic, chili pepper, soy sauce, and the unmistakable spicy note of fresh ginger. For cooking, we chose to brown them in a pan, creating that delicious golden crust that makes them even more appetizing! Grab your chopsticks, then, and get to work to make the Chinese vegetarian dumplings in a pan: they will be great to serve as an appetizer along with other tasty variants, vegetarian and not, such as:

To prepare the Chinese vegetarian dumplings in a pan, start with the dough: in a bowl, pour the flour , water , and salt .
Stir first with a spoon , then transfer the mixture to the work surface and continue kneading by hand until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough. Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 10 minutes .
In the meantime, prepare the ingredients for the filling: separate the green part of the leek from the white part, then halve the latter lengthwise and slice it thinly . Slice the green part into very fine rounds as well and set it aside.
Grate the zucchini with a large-hole grater , then peel and grate the carrots and potatoes .
Pour the sesame oil into a saucepan , add the white part of the green onion and sauté gently for a couple of minutes, then season with the minced garlic .
Add the chopped chili pepper and vegetables . Cook over medium heat for 5 minutes, then deglaze with soy sauce .
At this point, add the peas , mix well , and continue cooking for a couple of minutes. With the heat off, add the green part of the green onion and mix again.
Transfer the vegetables to a bowl, add the grated ginger , mix and let cool .
In the meantime, take the dough and flatten it slightly with your hand , then pass it through the pasta machine starting from the widest thickness . Fold the sheet and sprinkle with a pinch of flour.
Pass the sheet through the rollers again, gradually reducing the thickness until you reach the penultimate one (about 0.08 inches) . Now cut out disks with a cookie cutter with a diameter of about 3 inches . You can re-knead the scraps and roll them out again. Place about 0.5 oz of filling in the center of each disk .
Fold the disk in half , then pinch the edges together creating small waves to seal the filling inside ; with these amounts, you should get about 35 dumplings. After forming all the dumplings, pour the vegetable oil into a non-stick pan and heat over medium heat.
Place the dumplings in the pan and brown them on both sides for about 10 minutes in total .
Plate and finish with some teriyaki sauce and a few fresh chervil leaves . Your Chinese vegetarian dumplings in a pan are ready to be served !
Chinese vegetarian dumplings in a pan can be stored in the refrigerator for one day after cooking.
You can freeze them raw and cook them directly from frozen, increasing the cooking time.
If you prefer, you can use a food processor to chop the vegetables: this way, you'll get a filling with a creamier consistency.
As an alternative to chervil, you can use parsley, or omit it.
Chinese vegetarian dumplings can also be steamed: in this case, line a steamer with a sheet of perforated parchment paper, place the dumplings inside, spacing them apart, and cook with the lid on for about 10 minutes.

