name:
Anchovies in Air Fryer
ingredients:
Anchovies: 14.1oz(400 g)- to clean
Type 00 flour: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 8 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Anchovies in an air fryer are a light and crispy appetizer... this cooking method allows you to achieve a golden and dry breading without using an excessive amount of oil! The texture is reminiscent of classic frying, but with our recipe, you'll prepare a dish with less fat. A practical and quick alternative for those who love fried fish but don't want to give up on lightness. Thanks to the air fryer, the anchovies retain all their natural flavor, while the light dusting of flour contributes to creating a fragrant and delicious golden crust. Anchovies in an air fryer show that you can achieve a crispy and appetizing result even without large amounts of oil, with a preparation that's accessible to everyone and ready in just a few minutes and served with plenty of lemon! If you don't have an air fryer, find out how to prepare Baked Anchovies !
If you're looking for more air fryer recipes, also try:
To prepare anchovies in an air fryer, first focus on cleaning the anchovies . Remove the head by gently pulling it, and try to remove the fish's innards during this process. Open them like a book by running your finger along the spine , from the head to the tail. Then remove the spine and rinse well under running water. As you clean them, place them on a tray covered with paper towels .
Then pass them, a few at a time, in the flour , then put them in a sieve and shake it to remove the excess flour . Transfer to a tray or baking sheet for convenience and drizzle with oil .
Place the anchovies in the air fryer basket (we used a fryer with a capacity of 6 liters) . Place few at a time, well spaced. Cook at 375°F for 7-8 minutes. The cooking time depends on the size of the anchovies. Remove from the fryer and season with salt . The anchovies in the air fryer are ready to be enjoyed hot .
Anchovies in an air fryer should be eaten as soon as they're ready. Alternatively, they can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day.
If you've made multiple batches, you can reheat them all together before serving.
If you prefer a more substantial breading, you can coat the anchovies in a mix of breadcrumbs and cornmeal.
After cooking, a splash of lemon or orange will add freshness and make the dish even more fragrant.
You can serve the anchovies in an air fryer with a fantastic green sauce !

