name:
Summer Cuttlefish Salad
ingredients:
Octopi: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (already cleaned)
Flat beans: 14.1oz(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- organic, unfiltered
Marjoram: 10tsp(10 g)
Lime juice: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Lime peel: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
The seafood salad is a perfect appetizer for summer evenings, but it is often too laborious to prepare... with the summer cuttlefish salad recipe, we offer you a simpler and equally tasty variant! A delightful cuttlefish salad enlivened by the bright color and texture of flat green beans, all seasoned with a fragrant dressing of lime, extra virgin olive oil, and fresh marjoram. For this fish dish, you need just a few ingredients and steps for a dish worthy of the best restaurants, deliciously fresh and light. Try our summer cuttlefish salad and let us know!
To make the summer cuttlefish salad, first bring water to a boil in a large pot, then lower the heat and add the already cleaned cuttlefish . Cook over medium-high heat for about 15 minutes; the time may vary depending on the size of the cuttlefish . Drain the cuttlefish and let them cool in a bowl, covered with plastic wrap or a plate.
While the cuttlefish cook, wash and trim the flat green beans, then cut them diagonally into 4-5 pieces, depending on their size . Cook the flat green beans in boiling water for about 8-10 minutes , then drain them and transfer to a bowl of ice water ; this will keep the color vibrant.
Prepare the dressing: pour the marjoram into a jug along with the oil and lime zest .
Add the lime juice , salt , and pepper. Blend with an immersion blender to achieve a smooth consistency .
Cut the cuttlefish into strips 0.4 inches wide . Now you can assemble the ingredients: in a large bowl, add the flat green beans and cuttlefish .
Season with the dressing and mix well . Your summer cuttlefish salad is ready to be enjoyed !
The summer cuttlefish salad can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days at most, in an airtight container.
You can replace the flat green beans with sugar snap peas or use lemon instead of lime.
As an alternative to the summer cuttlefish salad, we also recommend the Calamari Salad recipe!


