name:
Prawn crackers
ingredients:
Shrimp paste: 10.6oz(300 g)- shelled
Tapioca powder: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 13 hours resting time for the dough

instructions:
We all know them, the white Chinese chips that pleasantly fizz in your mouth: they are dragon clouds! Light, tasty, one of the most known and "nibbled" Chinese cuisine recipes, even in Italy! Enjoy them as a snack or appetizer or to accompany other dishes. How are dragon clouds prepared at home? With a few ingredients and an infallible recipe Chef Mulan guides us step by step in preparing these Asian delights. Their shape and texture resemble typical potato chips, known in English as "prawn crackers," as they contain shrimp and tapioca flour. Fried, appetizing, and irresistible, especially when paired with the typical sweet and sour sauce . Let us know how many dragon clouds you'll prepare at home!
Also, don't miss these appetizers from Chinese cuisine:
To prepare the dragon clouds, rinse the shrimp under running water and pat them dry with paper towels , then finely chop them .
Transfer the obtained puree to a bowl , incorporate the tapioca flour , and add salt .
Season with a pinch of pepper and knead for about 10 minutes , until you obtain a homogeneous and perfectly smooth mixture . If the mixture is too dry, you can add a bit of water, or if it's too wet, some tapioca flour.
Divide the dough in half and form two logs of about 1.5 inches in diameter, ensuring the dough has no bubbles . Then place them in a steamer basket .
Cover with the lid and steam them for an hour over medium heat. You can use a classic steamer or the traditional Chinese bamboo steamer. At the end of the cooking time , let the dough cool, then wrap it in plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator for 12 hours . Alternatively, you can leave it in the freezer for a couple of hours.
Slice the dough into very thin pieces . Arrange the chips on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and, to dry them out, bake them in a fan oven at 140 °F for an hour. Then, let the slices rest for another hour .
Heat the seed oil in a pan or wok. Once it reaches a temperature between 300 and 355 °F, immerse the chips until they are puffed and crispy. Remove them with a slotted spoon and place them on a tray lined with paper towels to absorb the excess oil . Serve the dragon clouds immediately.
Enjoy the dragon clouds freshly fried, to preserve their crunchiness.
Enjoy the dragon clouds with sweet and sour sauce or spicy sauce. In the market, in Asian stores, you can also find ready-made chips for frying.

