name:
Tequila sunrise
ingredients:
Orange juice: ¾cup(180 ml)
White Tequila: 3oz(90 ml)
Pomegranate syrup: 1oz(30 ml)
Oranges: ½slice
Candied cherries: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Serving: 1
Cost: Low

instructions:
Imagine admiring the start of a new day in one of the most breathtaking scenarios there is: the Grand Canyon. This is the idea behind the Tequila Sunrise cocktail, a refreshing alcoholic long drink served cold, whose colors indeed evoke the sunrise: red at the bottom, golden in the middle, and a radiant light on the surface. A sweet and sour drink, slightly strengthened by the presence of tequila, it is appreciated even by those who drink less alcohol. The Tequila Sunrise is one of the most common yet famous cocktails: in 1973, the Eagles dedicated a song of the same name to it, and later, in 1988, it featured in a movie by Mel Gibson and Michelle Pfeiffer. Whether you're an art lover or simply enchanted by the magical atmosphere of sunrise, the Tequila Sunrise is a cocktail you should try without a doubt!
Speaking of pairings between cocktails and the big screen, it's impossible not to mention Sex and the City's favorite, the Cosmopolitan ! Don't miss these famous cocktails to make at home:

To prepare the Tequila Sunrise cocktail, place ice cubes in a glass (the tumbler) and then add the liquor . Wash and dry an orange, then cut it in half and squeeze it .
After filtering the orange juice, pour it into the glass with ice , add the grenadine syrup , and stir well .
Finally, garnish each glass with 1 candied cherry, preferably with the stem, and half a slice of orange wedged on the rim of the glass and serve the Tequila Sunrise cocktail immediately !
It is recommended to consume the Tequila Sunrise immediately.
If you want to try the version before the one now recognized, add crème de cassis instead of grenadine syrup!
The Tequila Sunrise is a so-called long drink, and the characteristic of these "long drinks" is in their volume, which ranges from 8.5 to 10 oz, while the alcoholic content is usually low to allow for a fresh and fruity alcoholic beverage without an excess of alcohol. There are several stories about how this drink came to be; however, it seems it first appeared in the 1950s at the Arizona Biltmore resort, where Gene Sulit, the bartender, was specifically asked for a long drink featuring tequila that could be sipped by the pool during the day. Other sources, however, claim that this drink has South American origins and evokes the warm and sunny Caribbean beaches where the cocktail is served as a welcome drink.

