name:
Lasagna bundles with zucchini
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 12- fresh
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Speck: 3.5oz(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Whole milk: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Butter: 1.75oz(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.75oz(50 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the lasagna bundles with zucchini, start with the béchamel: melt the butter in a saucepan, then add the flour . Quickly stir with a spoon so that the melted butter absorbs the flour .
Now pour the milk slowly while continuing to stir with the whisk , so that no lumps form. Continue cooking over moderate heat to thicken the sauce, which should be slightly more liquid, salt and pepper to taste . Transfer the béchamel to a bowl and let it cool .
Now, prepare the filling: wash and trim the zucchini , then cut them into small cubes . Heat a splash of olive oil in a pan, add the zucchini , and cook for 10 minutes over moderate heat.
Once the zucchini are ready, place them in a bowl , season them with grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP and speck .
Add a ladleful of béchamel and mix to combine the filling . Now take the fresh egg pasta sheets: cut each sheet in half lengthwise with a knife or pizza cutter .
Overlap the two strips obtained in a cross and fill the center with a spoonful of filling . Now fold one edge of the pasta towards the center, starting from the outermost strip .
Overlap the other outer edge as well , then overlap the two remaining side edges . The bundles are ready, place them on a tray with the closure facing down .
Take an oven dish, we used a flared pan measuring 7.5 inches at the base and 9 inches at the rim. Pour a layer of béchamel on the bottom , then arrange the bundles in a circular manner, slightly overlapping them . Cover with the remaining béchamel .
Finally, finish with a sprinkle of grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP . Bake in a preheated fan oven at 356°F for 25-30 minutes . Take the lasagna bundles with zucchini out of the oven and let them cool before serving .
The lasagna bundles with zucchini can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
You can freeze them after baking.
You can make the fresh sheets at home by following our Homemade pasta (sheets and shapes) recipe!
If you buy ready-made sheets, make sure they do not need pre-cooking.

