name:
Savory Ring Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 4- medium
Emmentaler cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Salami: 3.5oz(100 g)
Zucchini: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Leeks: 1.75oz(50 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 0.5oz(15 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(130 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6tbsp(80 g)
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: ½tsp(3 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
The baked savory ring cake is a colorful and tasty savory pie, a perfect appetizing appetizer to share! For the occasion, we've gathered the most tempting ingredients like salami and Emmental, inseparable in the fillings of savory rustic, here wrapped in a soft and fluffy dough. A dice of zucchini will enrich the filling, which can be replaced with other seasonal vegetables like peas, pumpkin, or broccoli if needed. This delicious savory pie will also surprise you with its easy and quick preparation: the ingredients are thrown into a bowl without pre-cooking, then everything goes into the oven. The result will be amazing, also thanks to an elegant mold that will give your savory ring cake a refined touch... propose it for Easter lunch or for a tasty Easter Monday picnic!
Come and discover more savory ring cake recipes:

To prepare the savory ring cake, first cut the salami and cheese into cubes of about 1 cm, then clean the zucchini and also cut them into 1 cm cubes .
Remove the green part and the base of the leek, then peel off the first layer and slice it thinly . In a large bowl, pour the eggs, salt, and milk .
Also add the extra virgin olive oil . Vigorously mix the ingredients with a whisk. Scent with thyme leaves , then incorporate the flour .
Also add the instant yeast for savory preparations . Mix the ingredients with a hand whisk . Add the vegetables .
Finish with the salami and cheese. Mix everything with a spatula and set aside. Oil and flour a ring mold with a diameter of 9.5 inches and height of 4 inches, then pour the batter inside .
Level the surface with a spoon . Bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F for 50-55 minutes, or until completely cooked and the surface is golden. Remove the savory ring cake from the oven and let it cool slightly before removing from the mold and serving in slices !
The savory ring cake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days. It's recommended to bring it to room temperature before serving.
It can be frozen after cooking, already portioned.
You can replace the zucchini with seasonal vegetables using the same quantities, or use other flavorful cheeses like Fontina or Caciocavallo.

