name:
Mediterranean Amberjack Tartare
ingredients:
Amberjack fish: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (frozen)
Gaeta olives: 2tsp(10 g)
Capers: 2tsp(10 g)- desalted
Celery: 1rib
Spring onions: 0oz(1 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 6
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Avocado: 1
Lime juice: to taste
Chervil: to taste
Dill: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
The Mediterranean amberjack tartare is a refined, fresh, and light appetizer. With just a few simple ingredients, you will be able to bring to the table an appetizer worthy of a Michelin-starred menu, perfect for impressing your guests on a special occasion. The delicacy of the amberjack perfectly complements the exotic taste of avocado, the freshness of dill, the savoriness of capers and olives; the crunchiness of green onions and celery complete the picture of a dish that skillfully blends flavors and textures. The final touch is an elegant plating from haute cuisine. All that's left is to roll up your sleeves and enjoy a sensational culinary experience!
If tartare is your passion, also try:

To prepare the Mediterranean amberjack, first make sure you have kept the fish in the freezer for at least 96 hours, or buy it already frozen. Then proceed to clean the fish. Make an incision on the belly , remove the entrails , and rinse under running water to remove all impurities. Cut away the side fins .
Remove the fins located on the back and belly . Scale with the appropriate tool , or with the back of a knife. Make a diagonal cut, just after the gills, starting from the back and joining with the previous cut on the belly .
Score the tail and dorsal part of the fish following the spine , once the first fillet is obtained , proceed in the same way for the second .
Remove the lower part of the belly, trimming it with a knife . Use tweezers to remove any remaining bones and the red parts which, when raw, may taste slightly bitter. Holding the fillet by the tail, make an incision and slide the knife to remove the skin . You will obtain 2 fillets, approximately 4 oz each.
Now proceed with the tartare cut, first slice the fillet, then into strips , and finally into very small cubes . Gather them in a bowl .
Finely chop with a knife: the olives , capers , and green onions .
Do the same with the celery . Cut the cherry tomatoes in half , remove the pulp and seeds and set aside .
Finely chop the cherry tomatoes . Strain the liquid from the pulp and remove the seeds . Cut an avocado in half .
Remove the seed , extract the pulp . Season with the juice of half a lime .
Season with salt and blend until you get a smooth and homogeneous cream . Place the cream in a piping bag and set aside.
Add the tomato water to the amberjack , a drizzle of oil , and season with salt .
Add pepper , then add the prepared chopped ingredients (olives, capers, green onions, celery, and cherry tomatoes) and mix .
When all ingredients are perfectly mixed , plate using a pastry ring . Garnish with the avocado cream .
Add some chopped chervil , dill , and finish with a drizzle of oil . The Mediterranean amberjack tartare is ready to be served!
It is advisable to consume the Mediterranean amberjack tartare immediately. You can prepare the avocado cream beforehand and store it in the fridge, in a closed container, for a day.
If you don't like chervil, you can substitute it with parsley or chives. You can serve the amberjack tartare with croutons or slices of carasau bread.
Before consuming raw fish, marinated or not fully cooked, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at -0.4 degrees Fahrenheit in a household freezer rated with 3 or more stars, as per the Ministry of Health guidelines .

