name:
Gazpacho with Amberjack Tartare
ingredients:
Amberjack fish: 14.1oz(400 g)- already frozen
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Lime peel: to taste
Watermelon: 2 ¼cups(520 g)
Red peppers: 1 ½cup(230 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 1.4cups(250 g)
Cucumbers: 1cup(150 g)
Celery: 1.8oz(50 g)
Bread: 1cup(130 g)- (only crumbs)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)
Apple cider vinegar: 4 ½tbsp(70 g)
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Tabasco®: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
No-bake and no-cook recipe, ready in just a few minutes. It's not a salad, nor is it a simple plate of cold cuts... but a refreshing and delicate gazpacho with amberjack tartare! Imagine the most summery products like watermelon, peppers, and tomatoes from which the juicy pulp makes the gazpacho , this cold soup typical of Spain to which we have paired a refined tartare. We've added a slightly spicy note, using a few drops of Tabasco, which perfectly complements the delicate flavor of the fish tartare. If you're a raw purist, don't worry: we've chosen to handle the amberjack tartare as little as possible to preserve its natural taste. A zest of lime, a few basil leaves, and it'll feel like summer, even at the table! Discover these amberjack recipes too:

To prepare the gazpacho with amberjack tartare, first cut the bread into pieces . Place it in a small bowl and add 50 ml of water and 70 ml of apple cider vinegar .
At this point, clean the pepper. Cut off the top, then slice the rest into sections, removing the seeds and inner filaments : you'll get 5 oz of cleaned peppers. Cut them into cubes and set aside. Slice the watermelon and remove the rind .
Then cut it into pieces , you'll need 8.5 oz. Wash the cherry tomatoes, dry them, and place them in the bowl of a mixer with blades . Add the watermelon, the cucumber sliced into rounds, and the celery in pieces .
Add the peppers too . Season with salt, pepper , and a few drops of Tabasco .
Add the oil , the squeezed bread , and a few basil leaves .
Blend everything until you get a cream , then strain it , collecting the gazpacho in another bowl .
Now take care of the amberjack. First, make sure it has been frozen. Then cut it into cubes and then with a knife . Transfer it to a bowl and season with oil ,
salt , and pepper. Add the lime zest , and mix .
Now it's time to compose the dish. Place a 4-inch ring in the center, place the tartare inside, and press it gently with the back of a spoon . Remove the ring, add the gazpacho gently , and finish with some basil leaves.

The gazpacho can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1-2 days. We recommend consuming the tartare immediately.
Make this recipe in small glasses; they will be a great finger food for your parties!
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at 0°F (-18°C) in a household freezer marked with 3 or more stars, as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

