name:
Salmon Tartare and Panzanella
ingredients:
Salmon: 14.1oz(400 g)- steak
Rice vinegar: 3spoonfuls
Chives: to taste
Salt: 1spoonful
Black pepper: to taste
Lemon peel: 1
Stale bread: 1 ⅓cup(80 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Water: ¾cup(200 g)
Basil: to taste
Balsamic vinegar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp
Green Peperoncino: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 6 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note (the cooking time refers to the bread)

instructions:
Are you looking for a tartare that is both refined and delicious at the same time? The salmon tartare and panzanella combines these two characteristics! The tender cubes of fresh raw salmon serve as a base for a fresh salad made with tomatoes, crunchy panzanella , and wonderfully fragrant basil! This will be the best way to start a romantic dinner with your soulmate or a seafood dinner for your friends... perhaps followed by a rich and fragrant seafood first course like spaghetti allo scoglio ! In just a few minutes, you'll be able to prepare an appetizer that will delight your taste buds with the aroma of lemons and the crunchy note of rustic bread! Finish the dinner with a good dessert like Bavarian cream and you'll win over the hearts and palates of your guests forever!
Also try these tartare variations:
To prepare the salmon tartare and panzanella, first make sure you have purchased previously frozen salmon. Otherwise, read the box at the bottom of the recipe for proper and safe use of raw fish. Take the salmon fillet and first cut it into strips , then into cubes . Transfer them to a bowl, add the chives ,
the lemon zest , rice vinegar , sea salt flakes , and pepper. Then mix everything and set aside in the refrigerator.
Meanwhile, cut the bread into cubes (7-8). Pour a drizzle of oil into a pan, let it heat, and add the bread cubes .
Add the chili pepper , salt, and toast the croutons for a few minutes over high heat, stirring often until they are golden brown. Then turn off the heat and let them cool. Meanwhile, wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half . Transfer them to a bowl and add the basil leaves (cleaned with a cloth or washed with cold water and patted dry before use) .
Then add the now-cold croutons inside , add the water and balsamic vinegar, and mix everything . Retrieve the salmon tartare and place it inside a 3.5-inch ring mold positioned on a plate .
Using the back of a spoon, lightly press the tartare and place some panzanella on top . Then gently remove the ring mold and serve your salmon tartare and panzanella .
It is recommended to consume the salmon tartare immediately after preparation; alternatively, you can store it for about 12 hours at most, in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
The same applies to the panzanella. It's best to store them separately.
Add slices of Tropea red onion inside the panzanella and season the tartare with thyme.
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not fully cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at -0.4 degrees Fahrenheit in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, as per the Ministry of Health's guidelines .

