name:
Flatbreads with salmon tartare and spring onion
ingredients:
Cracker: 12
Salmon steaks: 1.1oz(30 g)
Fresh scallion: 1.6oz(45 g)
Basil: 2leaves
Lemon juice: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus a few minutes for marinating

instructions:
The flatbreads with salmon tartare and spring onion are a fresh and tasty finger food, ideal for a refined aperitif. By paying attention to the quality of the fish and with some precautions, you can enjoy a little delight that encapsulates the taste of the sea on a crunchy base. The delicacy of the salmon pairs with the bold flavor of the spring onion, all marinated with lemon juice. This appetizer should be consumed immediately to preserve the quality of the fish and enjoy the flatbreads with salmon and spring onion tartare safely with your friends, perhaps accompanied by a flute of prosecco or sparkling white wine!
To prepare the flatbreads with salmon tartare and spring onion, first make sure you have purchased frozen fish; it is still advisable to freeze it for 96 hours at 0 degrees Fahrenheit and then thaw it to use in the recipe. Check that there are no bones: run your fingers over the surface and if there are any bones, remove them with tweezers . Then cut the salmon fillet into strips and then reduce it into very small cubes . Pour the cubes into a small bowl and set aside in a cool place.
Clean the spring onion by removing the green part and the roots ; then peel it to remove the outer tougher part .
Slice it very thinly , then finely chop and add it to the small bowl where you collected the salmon cubes . Drizzle the spring onion and salmon with a little extra virgin olive oil .
Salt and pepper to taste, mix the ingredients with a teaspoon . Then squeeze half a lemon .
Pass the juice obtained through a sieve and collect it in a small bowl . Then add the lemon juice to the salmon and spring onion mixture and let it marinate for 5 minutes or until the salmon has taken on a lighter color. Meanwhile, finely chop the basil leaves ,
then add them to the salmon and spring onion and mix everything well. Then prepare the 12 flatbreads and pour a scant teaspoon of salmon and spring onion tartare on each. Complete with a basil leaf and serve your flatbreads with salmon and spring onion tartare immediately!
The flatbreads with salmon tartare and spring onion should be consumed immediately due to the presence of raw fish. Freezing is not recommended.
If you don't have spring onion, you can use leek. You can also add ground pink pepper to give the tartare a pungent note!
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at 0 degrees Fahrenheit in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, as per Guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

