name:
Mint Liqueur
ingredients:
Mint: 2 ½cups(125 g)- (peppermint)
Pure alcohol: 2.67cups(500 g)- 96%
Water: 2.1cups(500 g)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 24 h of maceration + 1 month of resting

instructions:
When hosting dinner guests, a digestif after the coffee is a must-have. Instead of the usual bottle of Myrtle liqueur or limoncello , discover how to prepare a delicious homemade mint liqueur! Wonderfully fragrant and sweet just right, it's ideal to enjoy chilled on hot summer evenings. It can also be stored in the pantry for year-round availability. With its bright color and pleasant balsamic note, mint liqueur will be a delightful discovery!
If you love homemade liqueurs, try these variations too:
To make the mint liqueur, first wash and thoroughly dry the mint leaves, then place them in a jar , add the alcohol ensuring all the leaves are submerged. Place a sheet of paper towel (or parchment paper) on top and press lightly . This will prevent the leaves from oxidizing. Then close the jar and let it macerate for 24 hours in the freezer. Cold extraction is optimal for both the flavor and the final color.
After the maceration time has passed, remove the paper and strain the liquid through a sieve and a sheet of paper towel . Keep the obtained liquid , stored in a jar.
Now prepare the syrup by pouring the water and sugar into a saucepan and bringing it to a boil . Turn off the heat, pour the syrup into a pitcher to cool completely .
Combine the alcoholic part with the cold syrup and mix briefly . Transfer the mint liqueur into a bottle and let it rest away from light for 30 days before consuming it !
The mint liqueur can be stored at room temperature in a closed glass container for about 90 days. Alternatively, you can store it in the freezer.
If you wish to further flavor the mint liqueur, you can infuse juniper berries, lemon peel, or a piece of licorice root along with the leaves.

