name:
Tuna Tartare
ingredients:
Tuna: 1lb(450 g)- in pieces
Oranges: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)
Wild fennel: 3sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Tuna tartare is a light and simple dish made from high-quality fresh tuna, cut into small pieces and seasoned with an olive oil emulsion scented with orange zest and juice. Tuna tartare can be served on its own or in individual servings by preparing shortcrust pastry shells to fill with a couple of tablespoons of tartare, or why not pair it with a fresh pasta salad, in which case you might also consider a Gluten-Free Pasta Salad option! A fresh dish ideal for a summer appetizer.
Also try these tartare variations:

To prepare the tuna tartare, start by grating the zest of an orange , then cut it in half and squeeze the juice .
In a bowl, pour the extra virgin olive oil , the orange juice , and its zest .
Finely chop the fennel , reserving some strands for final decoration, add it to the mixture and emulsify with a whisk . In the meantime, prepare the shortcrust pastry shells. Adjust the emulsion with a pinch of pepper and salt. Prepare the shortcrust pastry shells for making individual tartare servings: roll out the shortcrust pastry (you can use a pre-made roll), cut out 10 circles about 4 inches in diameter, and line 10 round molds with a diameter of about 3 inches, after buttering them. Poke the bottom with a fork and bake them blind, covered with dry beans as weight, following the blind baking technique How to do blind baking , in an oven at 350°F for 10-15 minutes. When they are golden, take them out of the oven, let them cool, and remove them from the molds.
Take the tuna steaks: make sure you have bought certified fish. It is recommended to freeze it for 96 hours at 0°F and then thaw it to use it in the recipe . Wash and dry the tuna fillets with paper towels . Cut them into small cubes about a quarter-inch thick , and transfer them to a large bowl.
Pour the oil and orange emulsion over them and mix so the tuna is well flavored. Then fill the tart shells with one or two tablespoons of tuna tartare and garnish your tartare with a few fennel sprigs .
You can prepare the tuna tartare a day in advance and then assemble the tartlets the next day.
Instead of fennel, you can use parsley or marjoram.
You can prepare the emulsion with lemon instead of orange.
For an exotic twist, try the Hawaiian poke!
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at 0°F in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, as per the Ministry of Health guidelines .

