name:
Bloody Mary gazpacho
ingredients:
Datterino tomatoes: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Red peppers: 1cup(120 g)- (already cleaned)
Vodka: 4.2oz(120 g)
Lemon juice: 2
Extra virgin olive oil: 5tbsp(70 g)
Tabasco®: 1tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Datterino tomatoes: 2
Yellow cherry tomatoes: 2
Celery: 4- tufts

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
For many, one of the most sought-after summer destinations, and let's be honest not just during the warm season, is the warm and colorful Spain. In this wonderful region of the Iberian Peninsula, you can enjoy the best traditional dishes like the famous Valencian Paella , which varies by region: land, meat, sea, and mixed. The delicious churros to enjoy while strolling along the Rambla or any street crowded with tourists, and the famous Andalusian tomato-based dish, the gazpacho . Inspired by the daytime and nighttime vida loca , we gave a twist to this dish by preparing a delightful Bloody Mary gazpacho. A cocktail that not only recalls the typical Spanish dish but also the famous tomato juice-based drink. While it might not be the most convenient cocktail to carry around, it will certainly be ideal to sip on your balcony in the company of friends while nibbling on some summer appetizers... prepared strictly by you, right? Here's our recipe for Bloody Mary gazpacho, cheers!
Don't miss these delicious variations of gazpacho as well:
To prepare the Bloody Mary gazpacho, start by washing and drying the cherry tomatoes and peppers. Then cut the tomatoes in half and clean the peppers, cutting them into cubes . Combine them in a bowl
and season with lemon juice , oil , salt, pepper, and Tabasco
and mix well . Cover with a sheet of plastic wrap and let macerate in the refrigerator for about an hour . After this time, blend everything with an immersion blender .
You will obtain a coarse puree that you can then strain through a sieve into a bowl . Transfer the smooth cream into glasses filled 2/3 with ice . Then add 1 oz of vodka per glass, mix well .
Move on to the decoration. Halve the red and yellow cherry tomatoes and combine one half of each by skewering them to make them look like a bicolor cherry tomato . Then decorate your Bloody Mary gazpacho first with a celery sprig and then with the cherry tomato skewer, add a grind of pepper and then drink immediately !
If you're short on time, you can extend the maceration process up to 8-12 hours, while the ready gazpacho, clearly not assembled with ice and decoration, can be stored for up to 24 hours. Freezing is not recommended.
Increase or decrease the amount of vodka in the Bloody Mary gazpacho according to your taste. In the original version, the Bloody Mary is prepared with 50% tomato juice and 50% vodka. For a non-alcoholic version, you can prepare a Virgin gazpacho without vodka or even replace it with a little tonic water.

