name:
Pasta with Shrimp
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Shrimp paste: 21oz(600 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
White wine: ¼cup(50 g)
Parsley: to taste- (to chop)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cherry tomatoes: 2.67cups(400 g)
Leeks: 3.5oz(100 g)
Parsley: 4- stems
White wine: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Ice: 10- cubes
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Pasta with shrimp is a delectable main course from the sea made with simple ingredients accessible to everyone. The main stars, the shrimp, are also used to prepare a rich and flavorful bisque , which is used to finish cooking the spaghetti so that they gradually absorb all the flavor of the sauce. In just a few steps, you will obtain a rich and creamy pasta, ready to win over everyone's palate, especially for those seeking a light yet flavorful recipe. The balance between the elements and the care in their combination make shrimp pasta ideal for any occasion: from a family dinner to a special lunch with friends!
If you are looking for other main course recipes with shellfish, don't miss out:

To prepare the pasta with shrimp, first clean the shellfish. With a pair of scissors, remove the eyes, then detach the head from the shell and shell the shrimp. Cut along the back of the shrimp and remove the intestine. Set aside the head and shell as they will be used to prepare the bisque. Thinly slice the leek .
Halve the cherry tomatoes . In a pot, pour a dash of oil, add the leek, and let it stew for 5 minutes. Add the cherry tomatoes , the heads, and the shrimp shells .
Deglaze with white wine and let the alcohol evaporate completely, then add the ice cubes and the water .
Add the parsley stems , season with salt , cover with a lid , and cook over medium-low heat for 50 minutes.
Meanwhile, in a pan, flavor a dash of oil with the garlic, then add the shrimp and sauté over high heat for 2 minutes. Deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate completely, then transfer the shrimp to a bowl .
Blend the bisque with an immersion blender , then strain it through a fine mesh sieve . In the meantime, cook the pasta in plenty of salted water for 4-5 minutes .
Pour a ladle of bisque into the pan where you cooked the shrimp , then drain the pasta and transfer it to the pan . Finish cooking the spaghetti by adding a ladle of bisque at a time, as if it were a risotto .
Once the pasta is cooked, add almost all the shrimp , the pepper , the chopped parsley , and a dash of oil.
Toss everything together , then plate and garnish with the reserved shrimp . Your pasta with shrimp is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the pasta with shrimp immediately; alternatively, you can store it in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day.
You can prepare the bisque in advance and store it in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container, remembering to heat it before using it to cook the pasta.
For a touch of freshness, you can garnish the pasta with shrimp with some grated lime or lemon zest!

