name:
Beer Spritz
ingredients:
Aperol: 2oz(60 ml)
Blond beers: 0.4cup(90 ml)
Soda water: to taste- (a dash)
Oranges: ½slice
Roasted salted peanuts: to taste
Green olives: to taste- pitted
Miniature pizzas: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Serving: 1
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Dear friends from Veneto, please don't be upset if we dare to modify the spritz , the most classic of Italian aperitifs. Today, we present one of our favorite variations: the beer spritz. Essentially, it involves replacing prosecco with beer. We've chosen the Blanche variety, which blends barley and wheat, offering flavor, balance, and structure to this splendid alcoholic drink. Beer is not just a beverage; it's a true ace in the kitchen. We've also used it in other preparations, like Beer risotto with culatello and robiola or Beer-marinated tofu for a veggie alternative. Have we convinced you with our beer spritz? If not, then meet us at a bacaro in Venice, and we'll treat you to the first round along with sarde in saor and creamed salt cod !
To prepare the beer spritz, pour in a large wine glass in this order: ice almost filling the glass, the beer, the Aperol, and a good splash of soda or very sparkling water. Stir with a stirrer or a teaspoon, and add a few more ice cubes if needed. Garnish with half a slice of orange, give it a final stir, and serve. At this point, all that's missing are the Venetian cicheti, or snacks. Prepare several small bowls with salted peanuts, pitted green olives, and some mini pizzas with sauce and mozzarella (you can make them yourself with our recipe).
It is recommended to consume the beer spritz immediately.
The beer spritz is very balanced in flavor thanks to the presence of blanche beer, also known as white beer, which is fresh, aromatic, and almost not bitter at all. Therefore, if you prefer a spritz closer to the original, you can add a few drops of angostura to enhance the bitterness, or try different varieties of beer to customize this refreshing drink.

