name:
Codfish Meatballs in Sauce
ingredients:
Cod fillet: 0.9lb(400 g)
Bread: 2.1oz(60 g)- crumb
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)
Breadcrumbs: 2spoonfuls
Egg whites: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Tomato purée: 3cups(700 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
It often happens that children, and sometimes even adults, don't want to eat fish, but with this recipe, it will be easy to win them over for once! Codfish meatballs in sauce are soft and tasty bites made with fresh fish fillets and bread crumbs. Cooking in tomato sauce makes the meatballs even more appetizing and succulent, and especially, it immediately invites you to mop up the sauce with bread! We recommend giving it a try: toast a few slices of bread, call the family together, and bring the codfish meatballs in sauce to the table... we bet there won't be any left!
Don't miss out on these fish meatball recipes:

To prepare the codfish meatballs in sauce, first put the breadcrumbs in a bowl, pour in the milk , and let it soak for about 20 minutes. In the meantime, remove the skin from the cod fillet and cut it into slices , then finely chop it with a knife .
Transfer the cod to a bowl and add the minced garlic , chopped parsley , and well-squeezed breadcrumbs .
Add the egg white , salt, and pepper . Mix with your hands to combine everything .
If the mixture is too soft, you can add a bit of breadcrumbs . You should obtain a homogeneous mixture . Form balls the size of a walnut, using wet hands to help you ; you will get about 25.
Roll the balls in flour and remove the excess, then place them one by one on a tray . Pour a little oil into a large pan and heat it.
Place the meatballs in the hot pan and fry over moderate heat, turning them on both sides . Once golden, transfer them to kitchen paper .
In the same pan, flavor another dash of oil with the crushed garlic clove and chili pepper, then pour in the tomato sauce , salt , and pepper. Cover and cook over low heat for about ten minutes .
After this time, add the meatballs again , gently shake the pan to cover them with the sauce, and continue cooking for another 15 minutes, still over moderate heat with the lid on. If necessary, you can add a drop of hot water. At the end of cooking, sprinkle with chopped parsley . Your codfish meatballs in sauce are ready to be served accompanied by some slices of bread !
Codfish meatballs in sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 1-2 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze them after cooking.
Adjust the amount of breadcrumbs based on the consistency of the mixture.

