name:
Fiordilatte milkshake with currants and blueberries
ingredients:
Yogurt with fruit: 1.7cups(400 g)- drinkable, probiotic with red berries and pomegranate
Fiordilatte gelato: ⅔cup(150 g)
Blueberries: ¾cup(100 g)- frozen
Currants: ⅓cup(50 g)- frozen
Fresh liquid cream: 6.7tbsp(100 g)
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Healthy snack, delicious treat, evening indulgence without too much guilt! And, last but not least, the perfect trick to get the little ones to eat fruit. It seems that our fiordilatte milkshake with currants and blueberries is the perfect recipe for every occasion... We ourselves couldn't resist it anymore since the kitchen let us taste this new fruit-based and probiotic drinking yogurt recipe, which officially competes with the more classic and delicious Banana milkshake . Frozen currants and blueberries will provide the ideal flavor and consistency... Frozen fruit is always a trump card in these cases! And then, because we don't like to miss out on anything, we finished it all off with a generous spoonful of chantilly ! The fiordilatte milkshake with currants and blueberries will be ready in no time and truly irresistible!
To prepare the fiordilatte milkshake with currants and blueberries, pour the ice cream into the bowl of a mixer . Set aside some fruit for the final decoration (rinse them before use), add the rest of the frozen fruit into the blender . Finally, pour in the drinking yogurt and start the blades .
Blend until you obtain a smooth puree . Remove the lid and pour the mixture into glasses . Now move on to the garnish: pour the cold cream into a bowl, turn on the beaters at medium-high speed, and whip until the cream is almost stiff .
Pour a tablespoon on each glass to decorate and then garnish with some reserved fruit and mint leaves . Here are your fiordilatte milkshakes with currants and blueberries ready: enjoy them immediately !
Once the fiordilatte milkshake with currants and blueberries is ready, it is recommended to consume it immediately, avoiding any form of storage.
It seems difficult to find advice to make the fiordilatte milkshake with currants and blueberries even more delicious, yet something can be done. Chocolate lovers already know that dark chocolate chips pair excellently with the acidity of the fruit and yogurt, so feel free to grate some over your glasses! Instead, if you fancy a bit of crunch, you can't go wrong with a handful of granola !
For the milkshake, you can also use fresh fruit; the frozen kind is used to better maintain the milkshake's temperature.

