name:
Baked Anelletti
ingredients:
Anelli Siciliani pasta: 12.3oz(350 g)
Beef: 7.1oz(200 g)- ground
Pork: 7.1oz(200 g)- (ground)
Tomato paste: 5.3oz(150 g)
Frozen peas: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Primosale cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Red wine: ½cup(125 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- to grate
Breadcrumbs: 1.4oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)-
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Red Tropea onions: 2.8oz(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + 5 minutes of resting time

instructions:
The culinary treasures of Sicilian cuisine are truly endless. We could spend hours talking about the most famous and iconic dishes of the beautiful island of the Sun, such as pasta alla Norma , sfincione and fried cartocci . But today, we've dusted off grandma's old cookbook and, thanks to her formidable advice, we've prepared baked anelletti. Everyone has their family recipe, suggesting which ingredients have been passed down for generations. Our recipe includes a good meat ragù enriched with characteristic cheeses, and then we cook the typical pasta shape, Sicilian rings, and after a short mix, it goes into the oven to blend all the flavors. We loved our baked anelletti... too much! Let yourself be inspired and let us know if it happened to you too! Also discover another delicious baked dish, Pasta 'ncasciata from Messina !
To prepare baked anelletti, start by cleaning and chopping the red onion . Then move to the stove and stew it in a pan with some oil for 2-3 minutes over low heat . Then add the meats: the beef
and then the pork; break them apart with a wooden spoon while they brown for about ten minutes . After this time, deglaze with the red wine and after a couple of minutes, the time needed for the alcohol to evaporate completely, you can also add the tomato paste and lower the heat.
Stir thoroughly and then add the water. Give it another stir and continue cooking for another 30 minutes over low heat, stirring occasionally . Next, add the peas (fresh or frozen) and cook for another 20 minutes , adding a little water as needed, and stirring occasionally until the sauce thickens well ; finally, add a pinch of salt and a grind of pepper to taste.
While the sauce is cooking, put a pot of water on the stove to boil and salt it: this will be for cooking the anelletti. Then you can prepare the baking dish: grease it with a bit of oil and spread it evenly over the surface of a 12x8 inch baking dish. Then sprinkle with breadcrumbs and shake the baking dish to make the crumbs adhere well . Move on to the cheeses, grate the caciocavallo
and cut the primo sale into cubes . Set everything aside and take care of the pasta: cook the anelletti in the boiling water, draining them 2-3 minutes before the end of the cooking time . Pour them directly into the pan with the now ready sauce: but first, make sure it is properly salted, if not, add another pinch .
At this point, mix and then add the grated caciocavallo, keeping a few tablespoons for the top , then the cubed primo sale
and a pinch of black pepper to your taste . Mix again and start filling the baking dish, using a ladle .
Level the surface to distribute everything evenly and sprinkle with the remaining caciocavallo and then the breadcrumbs . Finally, bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 40 minutes. Wait 5 minutes before unmolding them, this way your baked anelletti will stay perfectly in shape when served!
If you prefer, you can store baked anelletti for 1-2 days at most, keeping them in the refrigerator in an airtight container. They can be frozen, preferably if fresh ingredients that have not been previously frozen have been used. You can prepare the sauce in advance, even the night before, and then proceed as per the recipe.
The original recipe calls for the use of Tuma, or Toma, the typical Sicilian cheese. But if you can't find it, don't be discouraged, you can easily use primo sale as we did. If you want to try another tempting version, add some diced fried eggplant or line the baking dish with thin slices of fried eggplant, to get a super timbale!

