name:
Moscardini alla busara
ingredients:
White Bramata corn flour: 1cup(250 g)- null
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ¼tsp(6 g)
Coarse salt: ½tsp(3 g)
Baby octopus: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Dry white wine: 0.9cup(200 ml)
Tomato paste: 1tbsp(25 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Garlic: 1clove- poached
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Moscardini are tender-fleshed mollusks, very versatile in the kitchen. We have dived them into delicious first courses or stewed them for tasty second courses! Today we offer them to you in a typical dish: moscardini alla busara is a traditional dish from Veneto, particularly from Caorle, the city in the province of Venice that overlooks the Adriatic. Following the traditional recipe, the moscardini are not cleaned of their guts and, once boiled, are sautéed in a pan with a sauce made from tomatoes, flavored with dry white wine, and seasoned with chopped garlic, red chili pepper, and parsley. This type of cooking, called “alla busara,” is a traditional way of cooking mollusks and crustaceans, widespread between Friuli and Veneto but originating from Istria. In this recipe, we accompany the moscardini alla busara with white polenta, another product of Venetian gastronomy. White polenta is indeed made from Biancoperla corn, a Slow Food Presidium typical of the region and is particularly suitable as a pairing with fish dishes, thanks to its more delicate flavor compared to yellow polenta. The result will be a dish where the creaminess of the polenta marries with the more decisive taste of this preparation. With moscardini alla busara, you will discover a whole new way of cooking this mollusk and bring to your table the flavors and aromas of Veneto!
Also try:
To make the moscardini alla busara, start by preparing the polenta that will accompany them. Fill a pot with water and bring it to a boil. When the water reaches boiling, salt it and pour in a splash of extra virgin olive oil . Then gradually add the white polenta flour .
Vigorously stir with a whisk to avoid lumps and cook on low heat for 40-50 minutes. Stir occasionally with a wooden spoon or whisk until a thick and creamy mixture forms . To keep the polenta soft, you can add some hot water while continuing to stir , otherwise, if it becomes solid, you can transfer it to a pan, cut it into slices, and grill it in the oven.
In the meantime, focus on the moscardini: wash them carefully under cold running water , pat them slightly with a kitchen towel or paper towel, and place them on a cutting board. Use a sharp knife and, with an incision, remove the eyes located just before the tentacle attachment . Then remove the beak, which is at the root of the tentacles .
Also remove the small white ball that encloses the beak . In this case, adhering to the original recipe, it will not be necessary to eviscerate the moscardini, i.e., remove the internal guts from the sac. Now bring water to a boil in a pot, salt it and add the moscardini . The cooking time will vary based on the size of the moscardini: for 4 moscardini weighing around 5 oz each, cook for about 20 minutes after the water resumes boiling. If you want to halve the cooking time, use a pressure cooker and cook for 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, take a fresh red chili pepper, chop it (alternatively, you can use the powdered version), and crush a clove of garlic without peeling it . Then pour a drizzle of oil into a non-stick pan, sauté the crushed clove of garlic with the skin on over low heat , and add the chopped chili pepper .
When the moscardini are tender, drain them from the cooking water and let them cool slightly . To check the cooking point, you can prick the moscardini with the tines of a fork to check their consistency, and extend the cooking time if necessary. Now place the cooled moscardini on a cutting board and cut them lengthwise , then add them to the pan and sauté for a couple of minutes .
Pour the room temperature dry white wine into a small jug and add the tomato paste , stirring well until completely dissolved. Add the liquid and cook over low heat for about 10 minutes until the sauce thickens. At this point, the moscardini alla busara are ready to be plated and accompanied by a portion of white polenta, which you can serve directly with the moscardini or transfer to a cutting board. Sprinkle with chopped parsley and enjoy!
You can store the moscardini alla busara in the refrigerator, well covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for up to 2 days. If you use fresh and not defrosted moscardini, you can freeze the preparation. Store the white polenta in the fridge, covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for 2-3 days.
The term “busara” or “buzara” seems to come from a dialect word meaning lie or trick and refers to the fact that the fish cooked this way is “tricked,” “mixed” with tomatoes. It was a method used by fishermen to cook the smaller, less valuable catch directly on the boat and still make it appetizing.
Don't have tomato paste? No problem: replace it with tomato puree, and the flavor will be the same. 
Rather, why not use the sauce to dress pasta? I recommend it: it will be a guaranteed hit.

