name:
Pasta with sausage
ingredients:
Penne Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Sausage: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 5oz(140 g)
Onions: 2.8oz(80 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Dry white wine: 3.5oz(100 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1oz(30 g)- to grate
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Last-minute dinner guests? Or just a craving to make a tasty but quick recipe? Sausage pasta is what you need! An easy first course to make, also ideal to share with friends for an evening together. While the pasta cooks, you can prepare the sausage sauce, without cream but just as enveloping and flavorful thanks to the Pecorino, plus the colorful touch of fresh cherry tomatoes. Few ingredients and minimal effort for a rich and appetizing dish, with a rustic and genuine flavor... after all, what’s better than sausage pasta to recharge after a long day?
Try these first courses with sausage as well:
To make sausage pasta, first, put a pot of water on the stove to bring to a boil to cook the pasta. Next, prepare the ingredients: remove the casing from the sausage and cut it into chunks . Peel the onion and finely chop it . Finally, wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half .
When the water boils, add the pasta and cook it al dente . Meanwhile, heat the oil in a pan, then add the garlic and onion and sauté for a couple of minutes .
Add the sausage and break it up with a fork . Once it is well browned, season with salt and pepper and deglaze with the white wine , making sure to let it evaporate completely.
Add the cherry tomatoes and a ladle of the pasta cooking water . Cook for a few more minutes, then turn off the heat. Drain the pasta al dente and transfer it directly to the pan .
Finish with grated Pecorino cheese and chopped parsley , then mix quickly and well to combine everything . Serve your sausage pasta hot !
Sausage pasta can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days in an airtight container.
A delicious idea for serving leftover sausage pasta? Put it in an oiled baking dish, top with plenty of grated cheese, and bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for 10 minutes!

