name:
Sausage and Pepper Pasta
ingredients:
Scialatielli pasta: 1.1lbs(500 g)- fresh
Red peppers: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Yellow peppers: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Sausage: 0.9lb(400 g)
White wine: 1.8oz(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 1sprig
Mint: 7leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Sausage and pepper pasta is a homemade first course creamy and with enticing flavors that will win you over at the first bite. The secret of these succulent scialatielli is that the seasoning cooks in a single pan: first, the sausage is browned and then the peppers are stewed, a whirl of blades to create a delicious creamy sauce and the job is done! In no time at all, you will bring a delicious first course of pasta rich and colorful to the table.
Don't miss other tasty recipes with this appetizing combination:
To prepare sausage and pepper pasta, start with the peppers. After cleaning them , cut the yellow ones into coarse chunks while the red ones should be thinly sliced . Place them in a bowl.
Move on to the sausage, slit the casing, and remove it , then cut it into pieces no bigger than 0.8 inches . In a pan, preferably non-stick, pour just a drizzle of oil, the peeled garlic, and the sprig of rosemary .
When the base is hot, add the sausage and let it roast well, then deglaze with the white wine , and when the alcohol has evaporated, discard the aromatics .

Set the sausage aside . In the same base, add the peppers , about 5.3 oz of water , and a pinch of salt.
Cover with the lid and cook for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally and ensuring the base isn't dry. After this time, take the yellow peppers , put them in a tall glass with some of the cooking base .

Blend them to obtain a sauce . Set the red peppers aside. Now, cook the scialatielli in boiling salted water , making sure to drain them halfway through cooking: pour a ladle of water into the pan .
Drain the pasta here , add the yellow pepper sauce , and finish cooking by adding water as needed. Finally, add the red peppers
and the sausage pieces , scent with the mint cut into strips , and serve the sausage and pepper pasta immediately .
We recommend consuming the sausage and pepper pasta immediately. If there are leftovers, you can store them in the fridge for one day.
If you love getting hands-on with pasta, try making fresh Scialatielli at home with our recipe! We chose to blend only the yellow peppers to make the cream a bright golden color, but if you prefer, you can blend both.

