name:
Steamed Buns Filled with Chicken and Vegetables
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2.3cups(290 g)
Water: 0.7cup(170 g)
Vegetable oil: 1tsp(5 g)
Sugar: 3 ½tsp(15 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.2oz(6 g)
Cornstarch: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Fresh scallion: 1.8oz(50 g)
Flat beans: 1.8oz(50 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 3.5oz(100 g)
Eggplant: 2.8oz(80 g)
Carrots: 1.8oz(50 g)
Chicken breast: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Soy sauce: 2tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus the rising time (about 30 minutes)

instructions:
Steamed buns, also known as Chinese Steamed Buns (Mantou) , are a typical Chinese recipe. For today's recipe, we were inspired by these, creating delicious steamed buns filled with chicken and vegetables. Making them is really simple, and even the rising times won't be that long... the time to prepare the filling, let it cool, and you can assemble the buns. These little treasures will be very soft and will contain lots of seasonal vegetables and chicken cubes flavored with soy sauce. A meeting between Italian and Chinese tastes that no one will be able to resist! Discover how easy it is to prepare these steamed buns filled with chicken and vegetables, cooked in the steam oven and incredibly soft... get creative and come up with different fillings for every occasion!
To prepare the steamed buns filled with chicken and vegetables, start with the dough. In a bowl, pour the flour, the yeast , the sugar , and the cornstarch .
Gradually pour in the water and knead with your hands until a homogeneous mixture is obtained . Now add the salt .
Add the vegetable oil and work the dough first in the bowl and then on the work surface .
It will take a few minutes until it becomes homogeneous . Transfer the dough to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and leave at room temperature while preparing the filling. Start cutting the green onion into thin slices .
Also cut the well-washed eggplant into cubes . Trim the flat beans and cut them into thin strips . Peel the carrot and cut it into cubes .
Also cut the tomatoes, first into slices , then into cubes . In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, add the green onion and flat beans .
Add the other vegetables and cook for about 10 minutes over medium heat . In the meantime, cut the chicken into cubes of about 0.5 to 1 inch .
After the 10 minutes, add the chicken to the pan and cook for another 10 minutes. Finally, add a pinch of ground black pepper and season with soy sauce . Mix well, check if salt is needed, turn off the heat, and let cool .
When the filling is cold, take the dough that has now risen . Transfer it to the surface and form a log , then cut it into 10 portions of 50 g .
For each portion, lift the outer edges of the dough and bring them to the center , turn over , and form a ball. Repeat the same operation for all portions .
Gradually cover with a kitchen cloth . Using a rolling pin and a little flour , roll out the first ball into a 4-inch disk, thinner at the edges and thicker in the center. Fill with a tablespoon of filling .
Then gently lift the outer edges of the dough and pinch them together . Turn the ball over and roll it on the surface to smooth the base . Form the other buns and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, spacing them well .
Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for 20 minutes. After the rising time , bake in a preheated oven with 100% steam function at 212°F for about 15 minutes. Take them out and serve them hot!
We recommend consuming the steamed buns immediately.
You can flavor the filling with spices or herbs. Curry, cumin, marjoram, or thyme will be perfect!

