name:
Long Island
ingredients:
Lemon juice: 1oz(3 cl)
Brown sugar: 0.7oz(2 cl)- (liquid or sugar syrup)
Triple sec: 0.7oz(1.5 cl)
Gin: 0.7oz(1.5 cl)
Vodka: 0.7oz(1.5 cl)
White Rum: 0.7oz(1.5 cl)
White Tequila: 0.7oz(1.5 cl)
Cola: to taste
Ice: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Makes: 1 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Long Island, one of the strongest cocktails there is, but at the same time very pleasant to sip. It shares with the Bloody Mary an unusual aspect: in fact, the Bloody Mary looks like an innocent tomato juice, while the Long Island seemingly has the color of iced tea! In reality, it is made up of gin, vodka, white tequila, white rum, and triple sec in equal parts and shaken together, to which a bit of cola and lemon juice are then added. Many associate the creation of the Long Island with the Prohibition era due to its 'camouflaged' look, although it seems to have been invented in the 1970s by a bartender from Long Island (USA), one Robert Butt. Discover with us how to prepare a Long Island to perfection, with an incredible taste!
Also discover how to prepare:
To prepare the Long Island, start by adding ice to the high part of the shaker (the tall tin) , while in the lower part pour the ingredients, measuring them first with the jigger. First, pour the triple sec by measuring it and then into the glass, do the same with the lemon juice .
Proceed in the same way for the liquid cane sugar (or sugar syrup) , then move on to the spirits, always measuring first with the jigger and then pouring into the small tin, gin , vodka always first in the jigger , then in the small tin .
Finally, proceed in the same way for the white rum and the white tequila .
To avoid watering down the cocktail too much, drain the excess water using the strainer , then pour the ingredients into the tall tin .
Close the shaker , give it a good shake . Pour the ice into the tall glass .
You are ready to pour the cocktail, always using the strainer . Lastly, pour the cola until it almost reaches the rim .
Stir with the bar spoon , then take the lemon peel (only the yellow part) and squeeze slightly over the glass to release the essential oils before immersing it : the Long Island is ready !
It's recommended to consume immediately.
Due to its robust character, the Long Island is preferable for after-dinner rather than for aperitif time!


