name:
Eggs Greek Style
ingredients:
Feta cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Anchovies in oil: 0.2oz(6 g)- (4 fillets)
Eggs: 8- medium
Black Greek olives: 0.35oz(10 g)- pitted
Red peppers: 2oz(50 g)
Basil: 6leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 8 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour of rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
The mezédes follow the tradition of appetizers and are not much different from what today is called finger food, or food to be eaten with your hands. Greek-style stuffed eggs perfectly fit this category. These special stuffed eggs are filled with typical Greek ingredients: feta, peppers, anchovies, and Greek olives. They can be prepared in advance and stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. Feta is the classic cheese typical of Greece, with a compact yet crumbly texture, a very white color, and a pleasantly salty flavor. Greek-style eggs are an excellent alternative to the classic deviled eggs . A way to bring all the taste of the Mediterranean to the table, in a colorful recipe perfect even for the Easter menu, perhaps followed by a tasty Agnello kleftiko and a sweet Baklava !
Check out these variations too:

To prepare the Greek-style eggs, start by washing and drying the bell pepper ; then place it on a baking sheet and bake it for about 30-40 minutes at 480°F, turning it occasionally until the skin is well roasted . Once roasted, place it inside a plastic bag or in a bowl covered with plastic wrap for about 15 minutes .
Meanwhile, boil 8 eggs until they are hard-boiled (about 8 minutes) , then cool them down. To speed up this process, drain them and put them under cold water for a few minutes .
At this point, shell the eggs , cut them in half lengthwise , and gently remove the yolk, setting it aside in a small bowl .
Now take the feta and cut it into very small cubes . At this point, the peppers will have cooled, and the skin will come off easily, so peel them and cut them into small cubes as well . Now take the olives and pit them with the appropriate tool , or you can buy them already pitted.
At this point, take a bowl and combine the feta, diced peppers, and minced anchovy fillets ; then add the yolks by mashing them with a fork or a garlic press , the chopped basil, and the olives . Finally, add olive oil, black pepper, and salt if necessary, as the mixture is already very flavorful.
Mix all the ingredients well and fill the cavities of the hard-boiled eggs with the obtained mixture . Then place them in the refrigerator in a container with a lid for at least one hour. When serving, lay the Greek-style eggs on a bed of colorful mixed salad or green salad .
We recommend consuming the Greek-style eggs immediately, but if you prefer, you can store them for up to 1 day in an airtight container placed in the refrigerator.
Instead of roasted peppers, you can use pickled pepper strips, but they will make the filling rather tangy. If you opt for those in oil, remember to add less seasoning to the mixture when combining it with the other ingredients. If you don't like feta, a good alternative could be Emmentaler cheese.

