name:
Eggplants Sardinian Style
ingredients:
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste-
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste-
Eggplant: 2.1lbs(970 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)-
Parsley: 3spoonfuls- minced

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes of purging

instructions:
Eggplants Sardinian Style is a side dish with a Mediterranean flavor made with simple ingredients: eggplants , tomatoes, garlic, parsley, and olive oil. Eggplants Sardinian Style is a light recipe that can be served hot or cold, depending on your preference. It's also a very versatile dish: by itself, it suits vegetarian and vegan diets or becomes a delicious side for meat and fish at spring or summer dinners. So with Eggplants Sardinian Style, you can satisfy all your guests' needs!
Try a light and crunchy side like gratinated eggplants !
To prepare Eggplants Sardinian Style, you can use either the elongated purple variety or the round one. First, wash the eggplants and cut them into quarter-inch slices . With the blade of a knife, score each slice of eggplant by making vertical, horizontal, and diagonal lines to create a checkerboard pattern. This will help to release the bitterness from the eggplants and ensure even cooking . Salt the eggplant slices and place them in a colander . Cover them with a plate on which you will place a weight to compress them, and let them sit for about half an hour to release the bitter liquid.
In the meantime, wash the tomatoes, cut them in half, and gently scoop out the insides with a small knife to remove the seeds (4 - 5). Now cut them into quarter-inch pieces and place them in a bowl.
At this point, season the tomatoes: add the garlic cloves and the three tablespoons of finely chopped parsley, salt , and finally the oil . Stir and let the tomato pieces marinate with the seasoning for a few minutes.
Meanwhile, after half an hour, check that the eggplant slices have released the bitter water . Rinse them under cold running water and then dry them well with kitchen paper or a cloth. Then, preheat the static oven to 350°F-400°F. Grease a 13.5-inch high-sided baking dish with olive oil and start forming a layer of eggplants .
Then cover with a layer of chopped tomatoes . Continue this way until you have used up all the eggplants, as shown in the photo . Then place the baking dish in the already hot static oven and bake at 400°F for at least 40 minutes. Remove from the oven and serve the eggplants hot or cold, according to your taste .
Leftover cooked Eggplants Sardinian Style can be stored in the fridge for 1-2 days, covered with plastic wrap. It is recommended to freeze them raw, already seasoned. Before cooking, let them thaw in the refrigerator overnight.
Eggplants Sardinian Style can also be grilled and seasoned with pieces of raw tomatoes. If garlic is not to your liking, you can reduce it or eliminate it altogether.

