name:
Shaken Coffee
ingredients:
Coffee: 3.5oz(100 g)- espresso
Brown sugar: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- liquid
Ice: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Ice: 1.75oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Makes: 1 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Espresso is a daily ritual for the inhabitants of the Belpaese, enjoyed hot and steaming, prepared in the home moka pot first thing in the morning. But when the summer heat embraces the boot, the craving for refreshing drinks takes over even in front of one of the pillars of Italian culinary culture. However, there is a way to savor the intense aroma of coffee even when cold by preparing shaken coffee! This is a delicious variation of the classic after-meal espresso made with coffee, ice, and simple syrup. Every bartender has their secret recipe, but the common feature among all variants is a frothy and compact foam that is created after shaking the ingredients, similar to cappuccino cream or the dense layer of cream that characterizes Irish coffee ! Two tempting layers, one of coffee and the other of foam, that will make you literally... lick your lips!
To prepare the shaken coffee, start by chilling the martini glass in which you will serve your coffee . Alternatively, you can chill the glass for a few minutes in the freezer. While it chills, take the shaker and fill it with 8-10 ice cubes and add the simple syrup .
Then pour the coffee . It is essential to pour the coffee into the shaker last to prevent the heat of the coffee from melting the ice and resulting in less formation of the compact foam that characterizes this beverage. In fact, once the coffee is poured, quickly close the shaker and shake vigorously . Shaking for about 10-15 seconds will suffice.
Place the strainer over the lower part of the shaker to filter the coffee . If you don't have a strainer, you can use a spoon to hold back the ice inside the shaker. Then pour into the now-chilled glass and... enjoy your shaken coffee !
It is recommended to consume the shaken coffee as soon as it's ready to fully enjoy its aroma and the compact foam that characterizes it.
Flavor your coffee with some liqueur such as Grand Marnier and Baileys, to be added to the shaker before pouring the coffee.

