name:
Ham and Melon Baskets
ingredients:
Melon: 2- medium
Prosciutto: 12- thin slices
Mint: 1bunch
Currants: 2sprigs
Edible flowers: to taste
Celery: 1rib- (only the filaments)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Ham and melon baskets are the most scenic and original way to serve the classic cold summer dish. Melon is a refreshing summer fruit, much loved, and we've thought of many ways to enjoy it: from Melon, feta, and arugula skewers , to rice salad with ham and melon , to meloncello and melon preserve with Port , there is truly something for everyone! However, with this impressive presentation, ham and melon, the quick dish par excellence, magically becomes perfect for the most special occasions: the baskets, elegant and colorful, are ideal for buffets, parties, and outdoor dinners, but why not try using them as an original centerpiece? Your guests can have fun picking the sweet melon balls and ham roses directly from the basket! Don't worry, creating baskets from melons is easier than you might think: follow the step-by-step process, and it will be impossible to go wrong!
To prepare the ham and melon baskets, you must first carve the melons to create small containers that we will then fill. Start by cutting a slice from the top of the melon . Now flip it over, placing it on the cut part for greater stability. Proceed with cutting what will soon become the handle of the basket. Make a deep cut on the top of the fruit about 0.6 inches (1.5 cm) from the stem, cutting down to the middle of the melon .
Make another identical and parallel cut, 1.2 inches (3 cm) apart from the first one . Again, insert the knife halfway into the melon, as if you were slicing it. Cut one of the two lateral sections obtained and remove it (5-6).
Cut the base of the other section and proceed in the same manner (7-8). With the remaining central part, you'll create the basket handle: insert the knife blade into the flesh, keeping about 0.4 inches (1 cm) from the rind .
Follow the shape of the melon and finish with a horizontal cut ; remove the semicircle of flesh obtained. Now you can scoop out the seeds using a spoon .
and the filaments from the center of the melon (13-14). Gather the flesh into small spheres using a melon baller .
Collect them in a bowl as they become ready, and until the melon is completely hollowed out . With the help of a sharp knife, now carve the edges of the basket to give it a scalloped profile (17-18).
It's time to fill the basket: place the melon flesh balls inside along with the roses obtained by rolling ham slices into little buds (20 and 21).
Arrange them at regular intervals to give the appearance of a bouquet . Now obtain some celery strings by gently pulling out a few long outer filaments with a small knife as shown . Use the celery strings to tie fresh mint sprigs to the handle of the melon basket .
the sprig of currants , and the decorative edible flowers . Now your basket is ready to be served and amaze your guests!
Due to the perishable nature of the flowers and small fruits, the ham and melon baskets should be consumed immediately. However, you can store them in the refrigerator for up to one day.
If you have vegetarian guests for dinner and want to offer an alternative that doesn't include meat, you can replace the ham roses with cubes of Greek feta: an equally irresistible combination that pleases everyone!

