name:
Casarecce with Sicilian pesto
ingredients:
Casarecce pasta: 0.9lb(400 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)- ripe and firm
Basil: to taste-
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste-
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- grated
Garlic: 1clove-
Extra virgin olive oil: 11tbsp(150 g)
Pine nuts: 1.75oz(50 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: (150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Casarecce with Sicilian pesto are an excellent first course that recalls the scents of Sicily, with notes of ricotta and tomato that pair perfectly with this pasta shape, also of Sicilian origin. Casarecce are the ideal match for this simple, genuine, fragrant, and colorful pesto.
The casarecce with Sicilian pesto presented here are an excellent summer first course, both for the freshness of the ingredients and because the sauce is prepared raw, making it perfect for a cold pasta dish.
The Sicilian pesto used here as a dressing for these unique casarecce is a condiment of which, like all regional recipes, there are various versions that include the use of different ingredients.
To prepare casarecce with Sicilian pesto, first prepare the Sicilian pesto. Start by carefully washing the tomatoes and cutting them in half. Once halved, remove the inner part and squeeze them to eliminate the seeds and excess juice . Then wash the basil leaves under running water and, after draining them, dry them with a cloth .
At this point, place the tomatoes in a blender , add the washed and dried basil leaves , and the pine nuts .
Peel a clove of garlic, cut it in half and add it to the mixture along with the grated Parmesan cheese and the ricotta . Salt and pepper to taste.
After adding all the ingredients, pour in the oil and blend at low speed to control the desired creaminess. You can choose whether to achieve a more or less creamy mixture. When the pesto has reached the right consistency , check if it still needs salt and pepper. Now take a pot and fill it with water, bringing it to a boil. When the water is boiling, add salt and pour in the casarecce .
When the pasta is cooked, drain it and pour it into a bowl . Add the Sicilian pesto you prepared and dress your casarecce. Now your casarecce with Sicilian pesto are ready to plate and serve at the table !
You can store the casarecce with Sicilian pesto in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to two days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can replace the pine nuts with peeled almonds, which you can slice or chop before adding them to the sauce.

