name:
Rice salad with ham and melon
ingredients:
Ribe rice: 1 ½cup(300 g)- parboiled
Chives: 1 ½tbsp(8 g)- to chop
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Melon: 2 ½cups(400 g)- (the pulp)
Prosciutto cotto: 7oz(200 g)
Primosale cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Is the heat becoming unbearable and you need a dish that is fresh yet rich and flavorful? We suggest combining two ideal summer recipes, the classic rice salad and the timeless ham and melon to create a new, even more tempting and refreshing idea: rice salad with ham and melon is the perfect solution for a summer dinner on the terrace with friends, a good meal under the sun umbrella, or a cool lunch break at the office. The pairing of salty cooked ham and sweet melon creates that delicious contrast we all know, but the addition of rice, chives, and cheese enriches and gives an intense flavor to this summer first course, blending and flavoring everything perfectly. Rice salads have the advantage of being very versatile, as they can be adapted to any taste and palate, because if rice is the main ingredient of this recipe, you can really go wild with the dressing and experiment with always new and tasty versions! The result? An original rice salad that everyone, young and old, will love, bringing a fresh explosion of colors and flavors to the table!
To prepare the rice salad with cooked ham and melon, first, cook the rice in salted water and let it cook for 12-15 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the dressing: remove the rind of the melon , cut it into slices ,
remove the inner part with the seeds and cut the slices into cubes . Proceed in the same way with the cooked ham, cutting it first into strips
and then into cubes . Then finely chop the chives and finally cut the primosale cheese into cubes .
Drain the rice very well and run it under cold water to stop it cooking al dente. In a large bowl, combine the melon, diced cooked ham , chives ,
then add the rice, sprinkling it in , mix well and add the primosale cheese . Dress with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil raw,
season with salt and pepper , and your rice salad with ham and melon is ready to be enjoyed !
You can store the rice salad with ham and melon in the refrigerator, closed in an airtight container for 2-3 days. You can freeze the rice salad only if you have used fresh ingredients.
If you want, you can get creative and add the dressing and ingredients you prefer, such as black olives and cherry tomatoes, or pickles, peas, peppers. If you want to add an extra flavor to your salad, you can dress it with a drizzle of balsamic vinegar, and instead of chives, you can flavor it with basil leaves.

