name:
Tempura of Squid and Vegetables
ingredients:
Carrots: 2- medium
Zucchini: 3- medium
Calamari (squid): 12.3oz(350 g)
Shrimp: 9oz(250 g)
Eggplant: 1
Sweet potatoes (or yams): 1
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Sparkling water: 0.8cup(200 g)- chilled
Egg yolks: 1
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Tempura is a Japanese-style mixed fry characterized by a light and crispy batter that wraps around ingredients, which are strictly cut into thin strips. In this recipe, we offer you a mix of vegetables and squid that are perfect for this preparation. The secret to a perfect tempura lies in keeping the batter cold; with a few simple tricks, you can create a tasty and delicious dish to enjoy right away! After trying this recipe, also check out our fried squid in batter and battered vegetables!
To make the tempura of squid and vegetables, place the sparkling water in the freezer. In the meantime, wash and cut the carrots , zucchini , and eggplants into strips,
peel and slice the sweet potato into thin rounds. Clean the prawns: remove the head, shell , extract the intestine, and set them aside. Clean the squid: detach the head, remove the insides, eliminate the skin and fins, and rinse them under running water. Use a knife to make an incision on one side of the squid to open them
cut pieces about 1 1/4 inches wide and set them aside. Take a bowl and fill it with ice, place another bowl that can hold it on top, beat the egg yolk with a whisk , then pour in the ice-cold sparkling water
and the sifted flour , mix quickly, not too long (it's okay if there are small lumps of flour); the batter should not be sticky. Heat a wok with plenty of seed oil and when the oil temperature reaches 356°F you can proceed with cooking (monitor the temperature with a food thermometer). Dip the vegetables in the batter so that they are completely covered,
then cook them in the hot oil just long enough to turn the batter golden (it shouldn't darken too much), then drain the vegetables with a slotted spoon and let them dry on a tray lined with paper towels. Continue with the squid and prawns . Do not fry too many ingredients together, as the oil would cool down quickly. Serve the tempura of squid and vegetables immediately .
Tempura of squid and vegetables is a dish to be consumed immediately.
To get a cold batter, use cold ingredients and possibly metal containers that have been pre-cooled; you can also keep the batter cold by keeping it away from the stove and immersing, without letting it sink, a plastic cup or any container with ice inside (this way you'll cool the batter without watering it down). Also, remove from the wok the batter residues that separate from the ingredients and remain in the oil during frying.
For a lighter tempura, use half rice flour and half all-purpose flour. Instead of water, light beer as long as it is very cold. Accompany it with low-salt soy sauce or a spicy sauce with a sweet and sour aftertaste.
The term Tempura is actually of Portuguese origin: it was the Portuguese, during the Ember Days (days of fasting and penance that occurred four times a year), who introduced the custom of frying fish (especially shrimp) with batter to Japan.

