name:
Polvorones
ingredients:
Almond flour: ¾cup(80 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Lard: 4.8oz(135 g)- cold
Powdered sugar: 0.6cup(80 g)
Anise liqueur: 0.3oz(10 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Fine salt: 1tsp
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time for the toasted flours (at least 30 min); + resting time for the dough (20 min)

instructions:
When the Christmas holidays approach, a magical atmosphere fills Spain, and just like in Italy, food plays an even more important role as it becomes a bearer of symbols and traditions. At the stroke of midnight on December 31st, it is customary to eat 12 grapes as a wish for good luck and prosperity, while on Epiphany Day, the Roscón de Reyes (Kings' ring cake) must not be missing from the table, enjoyed for breakfast with the family. Polvorones are traditional sweets that are prepared throughout the Christmas season and are customarily offered as gifts to guests and friends, wrapped like candies, to enrich DIY Christmas hampers. They may seem very simple at first glance, and small enough to be eaten in one bite, but these Christmas cookies reveal the origin of their name only when tasted: their texture is so crumbly that it reminds of a powder that melts in your mouth with every bite. The secret to this peculiarity is due to the toasting of the flour, which is dried in the oven before being mixed with the other ingredients, among which we also find lard, which is often replaced with butter. Let yourself be swept away by the melt-in-your-mouth goodness of polvorones, delightful tea cookies that can turn into an original gift idea: it will be a sweet way to share new, delicious traditions!
To prepare the polvorones, first combine the all-purpose flour and almond flour in a bowl , mix well and spread the mixture on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Toast the flours in a preheated fan oven at 266°F for about 20 minutes, then remove and let cool for at least 30 minutes . If your oven fan is too strong, to prevent them from dispersing, you can toast the flours in a static oven at the same temperature.
Once cooled, transfer the toasted flours to the bowl of a stand mixer (or a large bowl if working by hand), then add the powdered sugar , the salt , and a pinch of ground cinnamon ;
also pour in the anise liqueur and the cold lard (alternatively, as indicated in the advice, you can use butter) and mix with the paddle attachment until the ingredients are combined .
Transfer the obtained mixture to the work surface and start working it with your hands : being egg-free, the mixture will initially be difficult to compact, but you will eventually manage to obtain a smooth and uniform dough . Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature for 20 minutes.
After the resting time, roll out the dough to a thickness of about 3/8 inch , then cut out the cookies using a round cookie cutter with a diameter of about 1 1/2 inches . Gently place the cookies on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F-338°F for about 20 minutes, placing the tray on the middle rack.
Once baked, the cookies will still be a bit soft, so that touching them with your fingertip will leave some dough on it: don’t worry, they will firm up once cooled . After letting them cool, dust with plenty of powdered sugar and serve the polvorones to your guests or wrap them in tissue paper to give to your friends as a gift!
The polvorones can be stored in a dry place inside a tin box or in well-sealed food bags for about a week. Freezing is not recommended.
For a version without lard, you can easily replace it with 7 oz (100 grams) of butter. Vary the flavors to your liking using, for example, lemon zest, orange zest, or rum!
The use of lard in the polvorones recipe seems to have been imposed by the Spanish Inquisition to identify Jews and Muslims hiding in the southern regions of Spain: it is said that the Moors were the ones who introduced these delicious cookies to the country, originally made with egg whites. Nowadays, you can find both the lard and butter or margarine versions on the market.

