name:
Garlic Green Beans
ingredients:
Green beans: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Dried chili pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(70 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Garlic green beans are an easy and quick spring side dish, perfect for those who want to bring a healthy and wholesome dish to the table but with an enticing flavor note. We didn't just boil and then sauté the green beans; we enhanced the classic homemade recipe with crunchy toasted breadcrumbs with pleasantly spicy notes. Pair these green beans with rustic main dishes like meatballs, sausages, or grilled meat or fish and all the dishes cooked on the barbecue. They will also be delicious with a poached egg, for a last-minute dinner!
Take advantage of the warm season to prepare more tasty recipes with green beans at home:

To prepare the garlic green beans, wash and trim the green beans , then plunge them into salted boiling water and blanch them for about 5 minutes (for a final texture that is quite firm and crunchy). Meanwhile, in a non-stick pan, toast the bread with a generous splash of oil .
Salt and season with chili pepper . Stir or toss to make it evenly crispy and prevent it from burning. When it is nicely golden and crunchy , remove it from the pan and set it aside.
In the same pan, pour a splash of oil and add the garlic, peeled and chopped . Let it flavor for a minute, then add the green beans, draining them directly into the pan with a slotted spoon from the pot . Salt, add chili pepper to taste (if you don't like excessive spiciness, you can omit it here and leave it only in the bread) and let it flavor for about 5 minutes, stirring often .
Plate the green beans with the crunchy bread and a few sprigs of marjoram . The garlic green beans are ready to be enjoyed .
Garlic green beans can be stored for three days in the refrigerator without breadcrumbs. You can freeze them after cooking, always without the breadcrumbs.
To turn it into a gourmet side dish, add a final touch of Maldon salt. If you prefer the green beans to be softer, you can extend the cooking time to 8 minutes, no more; otherwise, adding this to the second cooking in the pan, the green beans will be overcooked, and their color will be less vibrant.

