name:
Rice Salad with a Hint of the Sea
ingredients:
Lumpfish roe (caviar substitute): 0.7oz(20 g)- red
Smoked Salmon: 1.8oz(50 g)
Chives: 1spoonful- to chop
Peas: 1 ¾cup(250 g)
Shrimp: 9oz(250 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 8
Octopi: 7.1oz(200 g)
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Parsley: 0.4cup(25 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6spoonfuls
Clams: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Black olives: 2.1oz(60 g)- pitted
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
The rice salad with a hint of the sea is a great idea for hot summer evenings (or days) when you want to enjoy something fresh, tasty, and light. In the rice salad with a hint of the sea, the combination of cold rice and seafood is a pleasant pairing, offering something original as an alternative to the usual traditional rice salads, often based on cured meats. We recommend serving the rice salad with a hint of the sea with a good chilled white wine!
Also, discover the goodness of the fresh and colorful salmon and vegetable rice salad !
To prepare the rice salad with a hint of the sea, start by preparing all the ingredients you will need to season it. Clean the clams: soak them for about an hour in a basin full of water and a tablespoon of coarse salt to allow them to purge any impurities, then rinse them under cold running water . At this point, tap each clam on a cutting board on the opening side; if dark sand comes out, it means they should be discarded because they are full of sand. Separately, heat a wide pan with a couple of tablespoons of olive oil and two garlic cloves .
Once browned, add the clams , add half of the chopped parsley, and let them open . Once the clams have opened, strain the cooking liquid and set it aside, then shell them and place them in a small bowl .
Clean the cuttlefish, separate the tentacles, and cut the body into strips , then cook them in a pan along with the clam sauce and the remaining parsley until they have completely absorbed the sauce , which will take about 10 minutes.
At this point, shell the prawns and boil them in boiling water for about three or four minutes , then drain and set them aside . Steam the peas and drain them when they are still crunchy and bright green .
At this point, cook the rice: bring salted water to a boil in a large pot, and once it reaches a boil, add the rice, then drain it while it's still al dente and place it in a large container with a tablespoon of oil to prevent it from becoming sticky . Julienne the salmon , quarter the cherry tomatoes ,
chop the chives and slice the pitted black olives, then set all the ingredients aside. Add the peas with the chives to the rice container, then mix well with a spoon . Now add the black olives ,
the seafood (cuttlefish, clams, prawns, and salmon) , the tomatoes , and the lumpfish roe . Mix all the ingredients well, season with three tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil, and adjust the salt. Your rice salad with a hint of the sea is ready, serve it cold at the table.
The rice salad with a hint of the sea can be stored for a couple of days in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap.
If you prefer, you can steam the prawns instead of boiling them as described above. As an alternative to chives, you can use chopped parsley and instead of peas, you can add zucchini chunks or your favorite vegetable. You can replace the prawns with shrimp. If desired, you can add oil-packed tuna to the rice salad with a hint of the sea.

