name:
Cold pasta with tuna and zucchini
ingredients:
Fusilloni pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Zucchini: 3cups(400 g)
Tuna in oil: 7.1oz(200 g)- in glass (drained weight)
Pine nuts: ⅓cup(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Lemon peel: 1- (to grate)
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Coarse salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Summer calls for cold pasta and today, precisely, a delicious cold pasta with tuna and zucchini ! Easy and quick to prepare, it is enriched with toasted pine nuts for a crunchy touch and lemon zest for a fresh Mediterranean scent.
The zucchini are first blanched and then sautéed in a pan to achieve the ideal texture in no time… as for the Tuna in oil , we have chosen the one in a glass jar which comes in tender and compact fillets, perfect for this main dish. Simple and genuine, cold pasta with tuna and zucchini is the ideal choice for a meal outside, whether at the beach or in the city!
Don't miss these variations as well:
To prepare cold pasta with tuna and zucchini, first, trim the ends of the zucchini and dice them .
Blanch the zucchini in salted boiling water for 2 minutes. In the meantime, toast the pine nuts in a non-stick pan . In another pan, flavor the oil with the garlic clove .
Drain the zucchini and transfer them to the pan with oil and garlic , then sauté them over medium heat for 15 minutes .
Cook the fusilloni in the same water used for the zucchini . Meanwhile, add the drained tuna to the zucchini and break it into pieces with the spoon, then pour in a little pasta cooking water and stir to combine and flavor. Turn off the heat and let the seasoning cool. Drain the pasta into a bowl and let it cool as well.
Once cooled, combine the seasoning with the pasta and mix gently. Add the toasted pine nuts and basil leaves .
Finally, flavor with grated lemon zest . Mix everything well and serve your cold pasta with tuna and zucchini, garnishing as desired with more lemon zest !
Cold pasta with tuna and zucchini can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days in an airtight container.
If you prefer, you can omit the pine nuts or replace them with toasted almond slices!

