name:
Lemon Sorbet and Vodka Surprise
ingredients:
Lemons: 4- (large with thick skin, like Sorrento)
Lemon juice: 0.8cup(200 ml)
Water: 1.9cups(450 ml)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Egg whites: 1
Vodka: 1small glass

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: pieces

instructions:
Lemon sorbet is a refreshing, thirst-quenching, and digestive dessert, highly appreciated on hot summer days; it is often used as an interlude between meat and fish courses or to create a delicate pause in the midst of a lavish banquet. The sorbet is an ancient food, with traces dating back to 7th century B.C. China; the Ancient Greeks considered it the “Drink of the Gods” and even the Ancient Romans frequently prepared it. By the mid-700s, the Sorbet arrived from the East and soon began to be sold in Naples and Venice, eventually reaching Sicily, where it still has a rich tradition today.
Take 4 large lemons with thick peels and cut off their tops to form a sort of “lid,” as shown in the photo; extract the pulp using the appropriate tool or a serrated knife, and with a teaspoon or melon baller. Reassemble all the lemons and wrap them in aluminum foil before placing them in the refrigerator. Use the extracted lemon pulp to obtain the juice that will be needed to prepare the sorbet. In a saucepan, bring water to a boil with sugar and the peels of a couple of lemons, being careful not to include the white part, which would be bitter. When the sugar is completely dissolved and the water begins to boil, remove the saucepan from the heat and let it cool, then add the lemon juice. Meanwhile, beat the egg white until stiff peaks form, which you will combine with the cooled and strained lemon juice (to separate it from the peels and pulp residues), then add the shot of vodka last. Place the mixture in the freezer, preferably in a metal bowl, for at least half an hour, then extract it to stir every 15 minutes until it reaches the desired consistency. It will take about an hour and a half. Don't worry if the egg white doesn't mix immediately with the mixture, this is normal: being full of air, it will float on the liquid, and only later, as the mixture cools, will it gradually blend in. When the mixture reaches the desired consistency, take the 4 hollowed lemons and fill them with the sorbet, then close them with their “lids,” wrap them in aluminum foil, and place them back in the freezer. Remove the lemon and vodka sorbet from the freezer 10 minutes before serving, to let it soften, and serve it placed on a charming bowl or a small glass lined with aluminum foil.
If you don't want to serve the sorbet in the hollowed lemons, you can opt for flutes, narrow and tall glasses where sorbets are generally served, along with a long-handled spoon or a straw. To prepare the sorbet, whipped egg whites are used to prevent the formation of large ice crystals and allow the sorbet to have a fine and creamy consistency, making it easy to mix even after a long time in the freezer; the addition of alcohol also prevents the formation of large ice crystals.
The origin of the name sorbet is uncertain, but researching it reveals it is a heritage of the entire world: however, the most accredited hypotheses suggest that the name sorbet could be derived from both the Latin “sorbitum” (something to sip) and the Arabic word “serbhet” (syrup).

