name:
Barley Risotto with Scallop Cream
ingredients:
Pearl barley: 1.67cups(320 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Rose wine: ½cup(100 g)
Scallops: 8
Fish fumet: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Thyme: 2sprigs
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
The barley risotto with scallop cream is a simple dish that enhances the taste of these exquisite shellfish by pairing them with pearl barley, a grain usually found in soups and broths like Barley risotto with zucchini and zucchini flowers or in tasty and colorful salads like barley salad with anchovies, shrimps, and cherry tomatoes. To make the barley risotto with scallop cream, you proceed as with cooking risotto, using rosé wine to deglaze and a flavorful broth to enrich with slow cooking, all wrapped in a velvety scallop cream to make this dish soft and tasty.
Don't miss the recipe for risotto with scallops and citrus , an elegant variation!
To make the barley risotto with scallop cream, start by preparing the shellfish broth (alternatively, use vegetable broth). Heat 1 tbsp of olive oil in a pan , add the pearl barley and toast it briefly , deglaze with ¼ cup of rosé wine , and
once fully evaporated, continue cooking over moderate heat for about 30 minutes (or as indicated on the package), adding the shellfish broth a ladle at a time, as with risotto . Meanwhile, remove the scallops from their shells , then rinse them under running water
In another pan, heat another 1 tbsp of olive oil, add the garlic clove and chopped red chili pepper , sauté and then add the scallops , flavor with thyme ,
deglaze with ¼ cup of rosé wine , season with salt and pepper, and sauté the scallops for a couple of minutes , no more, or they will become rubbery. Once cooked, remove the red tab known as coral and set it aside,
collect the white part of the shellfish in a mixer with blades along with the cooking base . Blend the scallops until a creamy mixture is obtained . Meanwhile, the barley will have cooked; pour in the achieved scallop cream and stir to combine the cream and flavor the preparation.
Finally, stir in the butter and stir again to melt it completely . Your barley risotto with scallop cream is ready to be enjoyed, serve it garnished with the set-aside corals .
It is preferable to consume the barley risotto with scallop cream immediately. Freezing is not recommended.
For a more colorful dish, you can add julienne-cut vegetables to the preparation, such as carrots and zucchini sautéed in a pan.

