name:
Strangozzi alla spoletina
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1cup(125 g)
Water: ½cup(130 g)- cold
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Peeled tomatoes: 2 ½cups(600 g)- ripe
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Garlic: 2cloves
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Strangozzi alla Spoletina is a typical Umbrian first course of humble origins, made with simple and genuine ingredients. Strangozzi (also called stringozzi or Strozzapreti ) are homemade fettuccine made with an eggless dough, based on semolina flour, all-purpose flour, oil, and water. Strangozzi alla Spoletina is really simple to prepare: just a few steps to achieve great homemade fresh pasta, dressed with a simple tomato sauce and a generous sprinkle of freshly chopped parsley.
To make Strangozzi alla Spoletina, start by preparing the pasta: place the all-purpose flour and semolina flour in a bowl, mix well , and transfer everything to a pastry board. Make a classic well in the center, add the water, a little at a time , and start kneading .
When the ingredients begin to combine, add the oil and continue to knead until you obtain a very smooth and soft dough, which you will shape into a ball .
Now wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest for 10-15 minutes to become nice and elastic. Meanwhile, prepare the sauce: take the tomatoes, clean them, wash them, and cut them into quarters . In a non-stick pan, sauté 2 cloves of garlic with 4 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil ;
as soon as the garlic is golden, remove it and add the tomatoes . Season with salt and pepper (or chili if you prefer) and let it cook for about 30 minutes over low heat, or until the sauce reaches a fairly thick consistency. Just before the sauce is ready, bring a large pot of salted water to a boil and, in the meantime, start working on the pasta on a lightly floured surface. Roll out a sheet about 1/16 inch thick (about twice the thickness of common tagliatelle), sprinkle it slightly with flour on the surface ,
and roll it up on itself . Cut the obtained roll into slices about 3/8 inch thick , which you will open and separate to obtain long “flattened spaghetti.” Lightly flour the strangozzi obtained
and cook them in boiling water for a few minutes . When they are al dente, drain them and add them to the sauce . Sauté them for a couple of minutes in the pan, then add plenty of chopped parsley . Your Strangozzi alla Spoletina is ready: plate them and serve hot.
You can store Strangozzi alla Spoletina for up to a couple of days, sealed in an airtight container and placed in the refrigerator.
If you like, you can further enhance the Strangozzi alla Spoletina with a sprinkle of Pecorino di Norcia or, alternatively, Parmigiano Reggiano. It is important to immediately separate the freshly cut strangozzi, leaving space between them so they dry without sticking. To facilitate the operation, we recommend dusting them with semolina flour, but remember to shake them well before plunging them into boiling water. Another tip for cooking homemade pasta: add a splash of olive oil to the cooking water to prevent the strangozzi from sticking.
Strangozzi is a type of pasta typical of the Foligno-Spoleto area, and their name seems to derive from the word “string,” as the pasta closely resembles the leather laces of old shoes. They are also called “strozzapreti or strangolapreti,” because the anticlerical rebels used to strangle passing clerics with shoelaces, similar to this type of pasta, during the time of the Papal States.

