name:
Peaches in syrup
ingredients:
Percoche peaches: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Water: 2.1cups(500 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Summer brings us many colorful and fresh fruits... it's truly a pleasure to enjoy them! But what to do if you have a surplus? One idea is to continue the ancient art handed down through generations of making preserves, jams, and syrups. Today we propose one with a fully summertime taste: a syrup made with a delicate fruit that summer offers, peaches. We've chosen clingstone peaches, with yellow, firm, and fragrant flesh, ideal for this type of preparation, and we've immersed them in a syrup of water and sugar. You can savor them in all their goodness paired with ice cream, chocolate creams (for the more indulgent, we suggest maybe with some crumbled amaretti cookies), and even when in the middle of winter you feel like preparing a peach cheesecake ! But to be honest? They're perfect even alone as a snack or treat!
To prepare the canned peaches, start with the sanitation of the jars and lids, as indicated in the guidelines of the Ministry of Health mentioned at the end of the recipe. Wash the jars under running water and place them in a tall pot. Insert a clean cloth between the jars to prevent them from breaking when boiling and pour water until fully covering the jars . Heat until boiling. When the water boils, lower the heat and continue to boil for 20 minutes. Then add the jar lids to the pot and let them cook for another 10 minutes. Turn off the heat and let cool slightly. Then drain the jars onto a dry cloth .
Proceed by washing the peaches . Then take a high-sided pan, fill it with water, and bring to a boil. Blanch the peaches for about 2 minutes : they should be slightly softened but still firm. Then, using a skimmer, transfer them to a colander. Rinse under running water to cool them .
Remove the skin and the pit using a small knife. Then divide them in half .
Place the peaches in previously sterilized glass jars with "twist-off" lids . Leave at least half an inch from the rim of the jar. At this point, proceed with preparing the syrup. In a high-sided pan, pour water and sugar . Heat over low heat.
Stir with a spatula to completely dissolve the sugar , then boil for 2-3 minutes . Add the syrup to the peaches in the jars until completely covering the fruits but stopping 1 centimeter from the rim of the jar.
Place a weight on top of the peaches to compress them slightly and ensure there are no air bubbles. Seal the jars by carefully screwing on the lids , but without overtightening, and proceed with boiling the jars, or pasteurization, following the guidelines mentioned at the end of the recipe from the Ministry of Health. Once the jars have cooled, check if the vacuum has been created correctly: you can press the center of the lid, and if you don't hear the typical "click-clack," the vacuum has been achieved . Your canned peaches are ready to be enjoyed!
Canned peaches can be stored for up to 3 months, provided the vacuum has been created correctly, and taking care to keep the jars in a cool, dry place away from direct light. After preparing the canned peaches, it is recommended to wait at least 1 month before consuming them. Once opened, each jar should be stored in the refrigerator and consumed within 3-4 days at most.
For this recipe, we used clingstone peaches, which are ideal for making syruped products (they are indeed called industrial peaches). However, you can also use white-fleshed peaches like the "spaccarelle." The right cooking level for peaches? It depends on many factors, including variety, size, and ripeness. If you prefer firmer or softer peaches, you can check their cooking level with a fork and possibly reduce or extend the cooking time.
Canned syrup preserves use a water and sugar syrup. The syrup can also be flavored as desired with cinnamon, vanilla, or a liqueur. This method of preservation is ideal if you want to keep the fruit's flavor and color intact.
Another small curiosity: clingstone peaches are a variety of peach with firm flesh. Precisely for this characteristic, they are also called industrial peaches for their versatility and suitability for making syrup, pulp, and puree.
Homemade preparation of preserves and jams can pose health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the necessary conditions and measures aimed at ensuring the safety and suitability of food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures can ensure to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to scrupulously follow food safety indications to reduce risks, but always bear in mind that the same food safety that industrially produced preserves and jams present cannot be obtained. For a correct preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

