name:
Ricotta triangles with cherry jam
ingredients:
Butter: 6.2oz(175 g)
Flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Eggs: 1
Cherry jam: to taste
Nutella: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Baked ricotta triangles are delightful crispy shells that encase a very soft and delicious filling of cherry jam or Nutella. These ricotta triangles, which can be served warm or cold, are a great idea for a snack for children (and adults!). Serve them plain or sprinkle with powdered sugar, and they'll be gone in no time!
To prepare the ricotta triangles with cherry jam and Nutella, start with the dough preparation: place the flour, the cold butter cut into pieces, and the ricotta on a pastry board , and knead the ingredients well until you obtain a smooth and elastic dough . If during this operation the mixture sticks to the pastry board, sprinkle it several times with flour, until the dough is elastic and dry. At this point, wrap the dough in plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator for at least half an hour .
Remove the dough from the refrigerator and with the help of a rolling pin, roll out the dough into a rectangle shape and a thickness of about 1/16 inch. With a fluted pastry cutter, cut the dough into squares with 4-inch sides , and place a teaspoon of Nutella or cherry jam in the center of each . Beat an egg in a small bowl, and with a brush, coat the edges of the pastry squares,
before folding them diagonally to form triangles . Once closed, place the triangles on baking sheets lined with parchment paper and brush their surface with the beaten egg , then bake them for 20-25 minutes at 356-392°F. Once baked, remove the triangles from the oven and place them on a tray, optionally sprinkle with powdered sugar, and serve them warm (to avoid burning yourself with the fillings) or cold.
If you cut squares with 4-inch sides from the dough, you'll get about 16 quite large triangles, but if you reduce the side of the squares to about 3 inches, you'll get about 20. As for the filling, you can let your imagination run wild, preparing creams of your choice or choosing the jam you like best.
The taste of the dough in this preparation is neutral, so its filling can be either sweet or savory. If you want an idea on how to prepare a tasty appetizer to serve either hot or cold, check out the recipe Ricotta triangles with taleggio and pears

