name:
Crostino with marinated watermelon and cheese
ingredients:
Watermelon: 2lbs(900 g)- to clean
Homemade bread: 8slices
Caciocavallo cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Apple cider vinegar: 1tsp(5 g)
Garlic: ½clove
Thyme: 2sprigs
Sage: 4leaves
Rosemary: 1sprig
Sichuan peppers: 1tsp
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Note + 30 minutes of marinating

instructions:
The crostino with marinated watermelon and cheese is a delightful appetizer with sweet and sour flavors, an unusual and intriguing variant of the traditional bruschetta with tomato , the undisputed queen of summer appetizers. Inspired by the fruits of the warm season, we dared this bold yet successful combination of watermelon, marinated with herbs and spices, and flavorful, melty caciocavallo cheese. The crostino with watermelon and cheese will allow you to explore new horizons of flavors with a simple and quick recipe, accessible to everyone!
To prepare the crostino with marinated watermelon and cheese, cut the watermelon into wedges and obtain 14 oz of flesh by removing the rind . Cut the flesh first into slices and then into irregular cubes about 3/4 inch .
Place the watermelon in a baking dish . Finely chop all the aromatic herbs with a knife . Season the watermelon with apple cider vinegar ,
the chopped herbs , thinly sliced garlic , a pinch of salt, and Sichuan pepper .
Mix, cover with plastic wrap , and let it marinate for about 30 minutes at room temperature. Meanwhile, cut the caciocavallo into not-too-thin slices and set aside. Heat a pan with a drizzle of oil .
Toast the slices of bread on both sides, it will take just a few minutes to brown them. Using a coarse mesh strainer, drain the marinated watermelon . Top the hot toasted bread slices with a few slices of caciocavallo .
Distribute the marinated watermelon on top and drizzle with oil . Serve the crostino with marinated watermelon and cheese immediately to keep the bread crunchy.
It is recommended to consume the crostino with marinated watermelon and cheese immediately.
Blue cheese lovers can replace caciocavallo with spicy Gorgonzola for an even more intense taste!

