name:
Watermelon Mousse
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: ½cup(60 g)
Brown sugar: ¼cup(40 g)
Butter: 1.6oz(45 g)- cold
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Walnuts: ¼cup(30 g)- shelled
Sugar: 0.6cup(125 g)
Water: 5tsp(25 g)
Egg whites: 4.3tbsp(65 g)
Watermelon: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Greek yogurt: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Watermelon: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus 2 hours of chilling the mousse

instructions:
We have transformed the most iconic summer fruit into a fresh and creamy dessert! Today we're making watermelon mousse together. Made with Greek yogurt and Italian meringue to achieve a well-balanced taste and perfect texture. At the base of these glasses, we've placed a cocoa and walnut crumble that pairs beautifully with the soft watermelon cream and offers a truly special crunch. It will be a pleasure to discover with every bite. This mousse is a perfect idea to offer during this period to give watermelon a whole new look and finish a summer dinner in the company of your friends. We know you will greatly appreciate this dessert, and for the next occasion, we recommend trying our modern cake. Fall in love with our watermelon desserts, like the sorbet , and fully enjoy your summer!
To prepare the watermelon mousse, start by making the crumble. In a bowl, pour the flour, cocoa , brown sugar, and the walnuts that you have coarsely chopped with a knife . Mix everything with your hands .
Then add the cold butter cut into cubes and work everything with your fingertips to avoid overheating the butter. Make sure to blend each ingredient until you get a combined but coarse dough .
Transfer the mixture into a baking tray lined with parchment paper and bake at 356°F for about 25 minutes. Remove the crumble from the oven , let it cool slightly, and transfer it to a bowl. To prepare the watermelon mousse, take the watermelon and remove the rind .
Cut the watermelon into cubes; you will need to obtain 8.8 oz of pulp . Then transfer it to a tall container and blend it with an immersion mixer. Pour the Greek yogurt into a bowl and add the blended pulp
and stir with a whisk . Set aside in the refrigerator, and in the meantime, prepare the Italian meringue. First, make the syrup. In a saucepan, place sugar and water , and using a thermometer, bring everything to 250°F .
However, when the syrup reaches 237°F, start whipping the egg whites in a mixer . Once it reaches 250°F, reduce the mixer speed and pour the syrup in a thin stream . Continue whipping the meringue until it is lukewarm (you will notice by touching the mixer bowl). Your meringue is ready, so set it aside .
Soak the gelatin in cold water for 5-10 minutes . Pour all the cold liquid cream into a bowl, take about four tablespoons and pour them into a saucepan , then semi-whip the rest with electric beaters .
Heat the liquid cream in the saucepan and when it is about to boil, turn off the heat. Squeeze the gelatin and add it to the hot cream , stirring with a whisk until it is well dissolved. Add this mixture to the watermelon and yogurt mixture and stir with a whisk .
Gradually add the semi-whipped cream and incorporate it with a spatula, moving from bottom to top. Then also add the meringue a little at a time and gently mix with a whisk . You should obtain a smooth and creamy mixture .
Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and transfer it to the fridge for about two hours . Then, mix it and transfer it to a pastry bag. Place the crumble at the bottom of the glasses ,
and then place the mousse inside . Decorate with watermelon cubes and mint leaves .
The crumble can be stored for 6 days at room temperature in an airtight container. Alternatively, you can freeze it raw.
Store the mousse in the refrigerator and consume it within 3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
To flavor the crumble, try adding lime zest or cinnamon.
To make the mousse more indulgent, add chocolate chips.

