name:
Peach and Amaretti Tart
ingredients:
Butter: 0.67cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(130 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Fine salt: 1pinch
Nectarines: 2.2lbs(1.2 kg)
Amaretti cookies: 3.5oz(100 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note plus the resting time in the refrigerator for the shortcrust pastry (at least 30 minutes)

instructions:
Shortcrust pastry cases enclosing a sweet treasure: tarts are fragrant and delicious desserts that lend themselves to many types of fillings, from jams to the most delightful creams. If tarts are among those desserts you can't resist, we suggest you try an original and tasty alternative to the classic jam tart : the peach and amaretti tart, an excellent dessert that encapsulates all the goodness of peaches and the intense flavor of amaretti, creating an irresistible combination of flavors. Perfect for starting the day with sweetness and ideal to serve as a dessert to end a lunch or dinner deliciously, this tart will also be appreciated by the little ones for a tasty snack!
To prepare the peach and amaretti tart, begin with the shortcrust pastry: put the flour, powdered sugar, and cold butter from the fridge, cut into pieces , in a mixer. Start the machine until the butter is sandy, then add the egg yolks and wait for larger crumbs to form. Pour the mixture onto a work surface, add a pinch of salt, and knead the ingredients very quickly so as not to warm them up , until everything is compact.
Form a dough ball, wrap it with cling film , and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least half an hour. Meanwhile, wash and peel 800 grams of peaches and cut them into pieces .
In a pan, melt 2 tablespoons of butter, then add the chopped peaches ; as soon as they begin to soften , add 2.1 ounces of crumbled amaretti in the pan . When the mixture becomes rather creamy and dry, turn off the heat and let it cool.
Cut the remaining 14 ounces of peaches into slices about 1/8 inch thick, without peeling them (peel them only if you are not using nectarines). Roll out the pastry until you get a sheet about 1/5 inch thick .
Line a 9.5-inch diameter tart pan , trim the excess pastry with a knife and set it aside. Prick the bottom of the tart with the tines of a fork ,
and crumble 1.4 ounces of amaretti on top , which will help absorb the fruit's juices generated during baking. Then add the peach and amaretti mixture , spreading it evenly and arrange the peach slices in a radial pattern,
until the entire surface is covered . Roll out the remaining shortcrust pastry and cut it into strips , then start placing them on the tart,
and cross them to form diamonds . Beat an egg and brush the pastry strips with a brush , then bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 40 minutes (or in a fan oven at 320°F for about 20 minutes). Once cooked, remove the tart and place it on a wire rack. Let it cool, and your peach and amaretti tart is ready to be served !
Store the peach and amaretti tart for 2 or 3 days at most in the refrigerator. If you wish, you can freeze the raw shortcrust pastry, wrapped in cling film or in a freezer bag for a maximum of 2-3 months.
If you like, instead of cutting some of the peaches into slices, you can also cut them all into pieces and soften them in the pan; in this case, increase the amount of amaretti to ensure they absorb the peach juice well. You can add other seasonal fruits like apricots, strawberries, or mango by halving the amount of peaches and adding the other half of the fruit of your choice. If you don't like the strong taste of amaretti, you can replace them with crumbled ladyfingers, and if it's not peach season, try using canned peaches!

