name:
Cherry Tomato and Mozzarella Skewers
ingredients:
Mozzarelline ciliegine cheese: 12
Basil: 18leaves
Cherry tomatoes: 18-
Extra virgin olive oil: 6.8tbsp(100 ml)
Oregano: 1spoonful- dry
Basil: 10leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Pine nuts: 1spoonful
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Here are cheerful skewers of cherry tomatoes and mozzarella balls interspersed with fragrant basil leaves, to be served and accompanied with two different olive oil sauces: one marinated with oregano and the other made of blended basil and pine nuts. The cherry tomato and mozzarella skewers can be served as a fresh appetizer, or by increasing the portion as a main course, perhaps for a light summer lunch!
To prepare the cherry tomato and mozzarella skewers, start by washing the cherry tomatoes: remove their green stems and dry them; drain the mozzarella balls well from their water . Now focus on the sauces: with a damp cloth, clean the basil leaves needed for the sauce ,
put them in a blender along with a tablespoon of pine nuts and 3.5 tablespoons (50 ml) of oil , a generous pinch of salt, and blend everything
In a separate small bowl, place the oregano, add 3.5 tablespoons (50 ml) of oil and a generous pinch of salt: emulsify with a whisk and set aside: let the two sauces rest for about 30 minutes in a cool place. Take the long wooden skewers and start threading a basil leaf, one cherry tomato, and one mozzarella ball . Continue this way until all the ingredients are used up, alternating so that there are three tomatoes and three mozzarella balls for each skewer . Bring the cherry tomato and mozzarella skewers to the table with the sauces, so that guests can use them to dress the skewers!
The cherry tomato and mozzarella skewers can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day sealed in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
To enrich the cherry tomato and mozzarella skewers, you can add pitted olives!

