name:
Bell Pepper Rolls with Goat Cheese Heart
ingredients:
Red peppers: 1-
Yellow peppers: 1
Chives: to taste-
Black pepper: to taste-
Fine salt: to taste
Goat: 10.6oz(300 g)- cylindrical
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)-

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 20 minutes of resting time for the peppers

instructions:
Bell pepper rolls with goat cheese heart are delicious and colorful appetizers, simple and light; in addition to being very tasty, they offer a beautiful visual effect and are therefore suitable for brightening up your table when hosting guests or on special occasions! To make these rolls, simply roast the peppers, peel them, and wrap a tasty goat cheese inside the soft strips sprinkled with salt, pepper, and chives. Once the roll is formed, close it with a couple of chive strands as if you were tying a gift package, then cut it in half. Discover also how to make fish stuffed bell pepper rolls !
Wash and dry the peppers, then place them in a baking dish (or on the oven tray) and roast them for about 20-25 minutes in a preheated oven at 480°F; once they are well roasted, take them out of the oven and place them inside a tightly closed plastic bag, where you will let them sweat for about 15 minutes. After this time, you can take them out and peel them easily, being particularly careful not to break them.
From the two peppers, cut out 8 strips (divide each pepper into 4 parts), removing the seeds and the internal white filaments. Arrange the strips on a plate (or cutting board) and sprinkle the inner parts of the peppers with salt, ground pepper, and chives. Place a piece of goat cheese of the same size on each strip, then wrap the goat cheese to form a roll, tie it with a couple of chive strands, and cut it in half, trimming the ends if necessary with a knife.
Arrange all the rolls obtained this way on a serving plate, drizzle with a little extra virgin olive oil, and serve.
We recommend consuming the bell pepper rolls with goat cheese heart immediately, but if you want, you can store them in the refrigerator, closed in an airtight container, for up to 1 day.
To make the rolls even more inviting, you can mix some chopped chives into the goat cheese, creating a pleasant color contrast.

