name:
Venere rice with squid tentacles and prawns
ingredients:
Black Venus rice: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Calamari (squid): 5.3oz(150 g)
Shrimp: 5.3oz(150 g)- tails
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(50 g)
White wine: 0.7oz(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Shrimp: - (the scraps)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Water: 4glasses(1 l)
Parsley: to taste- (the stems)
Onions: 2.8oz(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Venere rice with squid tentacles and prawns is a very special and tasty first course that encapsulates all the flavor of the sea and the elegance of an aesthetically pleasing preparation. Venere rice is naturally black, with a sweet and fragrant flavor that releases a delicate bread aroma while cooking; it is ideal for those who want to prepare a black rice dish, aromatic and without using additional natural colorants, like squid ink. Venere rice pairs well with both fish and vegetable-based sauces, and its unique fiber makes it always crunchy and never mushy!
Pair this delicious seafood dish with a tasty tray of gratinated squid and prawns !
To prepare Venere rice with squid tentacles and prawns, start by making the broth. Shell your prawns , then cut along the back with a small knife , gently remove the intestine, and place the flesh in the refrigerator, keeping the shells aside. Pour the oil into a saucepan, add a clove of garlic, the onion cut into wedges, and the prawn shells .
Let them brown for about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally, and deglaze with white wine . Cover with water, add the parsley stems, and peppercorns , and let it cook for about 20 minutes. Once reduced, strain the broth .
This way, you'll obtain a very aromatic broth , keep a ladle aside and pour the rest into a saucepan, lightly salt it, and bring it to a boil. Pour the rice into the boiling broth and cook it according to the package instructions , stirring occasionally.
Meanwhile, prepare the seasoning: pour the oil into a saucepan , add a clove of garlic and let it brown. Then remove it and add the squid tentacles , let them brown and deglaze with white wine .
Add a ladle of the broth and cook them for a few minutes. Once the rice is almost cooked, drain it and pour it directly into the saucepan with the squid .
Add the prawns and finish cooking for about 5 minutes. Add a pinch of salt, a grind of black pepper, and finely chopped parsley leaves . Stir to combine the ingredients and serve the Venere rice with squid tentacles and prawns while still hot .
Store the Venere rice with squid tentacles and prawns in the refrigerator for at most one day.
If you want to turn this preparation into a one-dish meal, you can add some lightly sautéed zucchini and bell peppers.
Instead of Venere rice, try the variant with basmati rice!
Do you have leftover prawns? Prepare pan-fried prawns , a quick and easy recipe.


