name:
Mussel and Clam Sauté
ingredients:
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Garlic: 3cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: ½glass
Black pepper: to taste
Cherry tomatoes: ½cup(100 g)
Parsley: 2spoonfuls- to chop

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + time required for shellfish cleaning

instructions:
The mussel and clam sauté is an appetizer or main course full of flavor that can be prepared quickly with few and simple ingredients, such as tomato, oil, garlic, parsley, and white wine, which enhance the natural flavor of the mollusks used. The term sauté , of French origin, refers to that particular cooking technique where foods are tossed in a pan over high heat; this technique is generally used for mollusks, primarily mussels and clams, and is also considered a healthy cooking method as very little seasoning is used, in our case none at all for the opening phase of the mollusks. Prepare this sauté as a quick Christmas appetizer that is easy to make and delicious!
Don't miss these variations as well:
To prepare the mussel and clam sauté, start first by cleaning the mollusks. To clean the mussels, place them in a large bowl, then rinse them well under fresh running water . With a firm motion, manually remove the beard, or byssus, protruding from the shells (to facilitate this operation, you can grasp the byssus with a cloth). Always under water, scrub the mussels vigorously using a steel wool pad (or a stiff brush) to remove any impurities .
To clean the clams, wash them under running water and check, by tapping each one on a cutting board, that there is no sand inside them . Cut the cherry tomatoes into wedges and chop the parsley sprig.
After thoroughly cleaning the mollusks, let them open by placing the mussels in a pot and then the clams . Cover with a lid and cook over high heat to open the shells .
As soon as all the mollusks have opened , separate the mussels and clams from the cooking liquid using a fine-mesh strainer . Set aside the cooking liquid. In a pan, pour the oil and squeeze three cloves of garlic .
Sauté for a few moments and add the previously diced cherry tomatoes , let them brown for 1-2 minutes over low heat, then pour in the reserved cooking liquid from the mollusks . During cooking, season to taste with ground pepper .
Finally, add the mussels and clams and allow them to briefly soak in the sauce . Add the chopped parsley . Turn off the heat and serve the mussel and clam sauté hot, possibly accompanied by slices of toasted bread.
It is advisable to enjoy the mussel and clam sauté as soon as it's ready, while hot. It can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 day, in an airtight container. Cleaned mollusks can be kept raw in a bowl of cold water in the refrigerator for up to 12 hours.
Fishmongers often offer to clean the mussels for you to avoid the long and tedious task; however, for mollusks, this is a traumatic procedure, as the mussels are placed in machines with abrasive rollers. Cleaning mussels with machines causes the liquid inside them to spill out; fishmongers often remind that this procedure is advisable only if they will be consumed almost immediately. The loss of the liquid contained in the mussels results in the loss of part of the "sea flavor," making them drier and less tasty; therefore, unless the mussels are extremely dirty, our advice is to avoid mechanical cleaning and prefer manual cleaning.

