name:
Australian-style Cherry Tomatoes
ingredients:
Pomodori di Pachino (cherry tomatoes): 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves
White wine vinegar: 2spoonfuls
Oregano: 1tsp
Thyme: 2sprigs
Rosemary: 1sprig
Basil: 6leaves
Capers in vinegar: 2tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 6 h
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time and 1 night of rest

instructions:
Australian-style cherry tomatoes are preserved vegetables in oil, perfect as an appetizer or snack, made with the famous Pachino cherry tomatoes from the sunny region of Sicily, in the province of Syracuse. After cutting the tomatoes into quarters and drying them in the oven at low temperature for 5-6 hours, they are seasoned with a mixture of herbs, garlic, a little vinegar, and oil. The preparation of Australian-style cherry tomatoes is very simple but quite lengthy due to the slow drying in the oven; however, I assure you that the wait will be well worth the excellent result.
Wash and dry the cherry tomatoes, cut them into quarters, and place them, not too close together, on one or more baking sheets lined with parchment paper. Sprinkle with a little salt (not too much) and let them dry in the oven for 5-6 hours (depending on the size of the tomatoes) at 194°F; the tomato should be semi-dry: it should still have some soft, but dry, pulp. Alternatively, if you live in a sunny place, you can choose to dry them in the sun, protected by a net to prevent insect contact, but in this case, it will take at least 2 or 3 days. Once the cherry tomatoes are ready, remove them from the oven and let them cool completely.
Meanwhile, chop the rosemary needles, thyme leaves, basil, capers, and garlic, then add the oregano; place the now cold cherry tomatoes in a bowl, add the vinegar, the herb mixture, and olive oil. Mix gently, then adjust the salt if necessary.
Place the Australian-style cherry tomatoes in a container with a lid and put them in the refrigerator; let them rest overnight so that the flavors blend well with each other.
For the successful preparation of Australian-style cherry tomatoes, it is recommended to use a high-quality extra virgin olive oil, which enhances and further enriches the already superb flavor of the Pachino tomatoes.
Pachino tomatoes have become very famous and protected by the PGI (Protected Geographical Indication) mark, thanks to their many prestigious characteristics, which include a mix of intense flavor, fruit brightness, pulp consistency, and high content of vitamin C and antioxidants, among which lycopene stands out. All these qualities develop thanks to the climatic conditions and soil characteristics of Pachino (exposure to light, soil quality, and irrigation water), which promote a high concentration of lycopene in the tomatoes and excellent organoleptic qualities.

