name:
Sole Fillet Sorrento Style
ingredients:
Flounder: 8.8oz(250 g)- (4 fillets)
Garlic: 1clove
Tomato purée: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Black olives: 1oz(30 g)- pitted
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
Oregano: 3sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: ⅛cup(20 g)
Basil: 5leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The Sorrento style sole fillet is a very fresh and inviting main course based on fish, which encapsulates all the goodness of Mediterranean flavors and colors. The fillets are floured and pan-fried in olive oil, then flavored with good tomato puree enriched with sliced black olives and garlic. The dish is finally completed by adding a few basil leaves, which add an extra fragrant and tasty touch: serve this dish to your guests and they will be delighted!
To prepare the Sorrento style sole fillet, slice the black olives and place a non-stick pan with oil and the garlic clove on the heat . Pour in the tomato puree ,
the sliced olives , season with salt and pepper. Cook for 10 minutes on low heat, stirring occasionally with a spatula .
In the meantime, take care of the sole fillets. Chop the oregano , spread the flour on a tray , add the chopped oregano ,
the salt and the pepper and mix everything with a teaspoon .
Pass the fillets in the flour , pressing well with your fingers so that the breading adheres well on both sides , then put a pot with oil on the heat ;
when the oil is hot, brown the fillets for 2 minutes per side , turning them on both sides with kitchen tongs for even cooking . Once ready , turn off the heat,
then place the still hot fillets in the tomato and olive sauce you prepared earlier . Cook for 2 minutes and finish by adding a few basil leaves : your Sorrento style sole fillet is ready to be served and enjoyed .
You can store the Sorrento style sole fillet in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for up to one day. You can freeze it only if you used fresh sole.
If you like, you can add a pinch of chili pepper to the sauce to give your dish a pleasant spicy touch!

