name:
Figs in Red Wine, Honey, and Cinnamon Sauce
ingredients:
Figs: 3.3cups(500 g)- (8 fruits)
Red wine: 2.1cups(500 g)- delicate taste
Port wine: 1.3oz(35 g)- red
Honey: 1tbsp(25 g)
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Cloves: 3
Brown sugar: ½cup(120 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 20 min to reduce the syrup

instructions:
September has a certain magic about it: during this time, the memory of summer vacations and the onset of autumn intertwine in a pleasant blend of memories and sensations. No, this is not a tear-jerker novel, but rather the idyll you will seem to relive while enjoying these figs in red wine sauce. The sweetness of the figs, a typical September fruit, is complemented by a precious spiced syrup that makes them irresistible and reminiscent of the winter aromas of mulled wine . A perfect end to a delicious dinner, whether in the company of foodie friends or your significant other. Dessert is a moment to indulge in pleasure, and we are sure that the figs in red wine sauce will live up to your sweetest expectations, enchanting you with their magic.
To prepare the figs in red wine sauce, start by cleaning the fruit; use a damp cloth to wipe the surface , remove the stem from each fig , and make a cross cut . Gently run the blade, so do not cut into four but score the surface.
In a pan, pour the red wine and port , then add the honey , the cinnamon stick, and the cloves .
Finally, add the brown sugar and mix everything . Let it cook on high flame so that the mixture reaches a boil .
As soon as it is boiling, lower the flame and immerse the figs , let them cook for 5 minutes on low heat, and when they are ready, gently pick them up to avoid breaking them and place them on a plate .
When the figs are fully cooled, cut the wedges into 4 parts . Meanwhile, continue cooking the wine mixture for another 20 minutes , you should obtain a syrupy reduction from which you will then remove the cinnamon stick .
Strain the syrup by pouring it into a container where you have placed a strainer . Place the figs in the cups in which you will serve them and cover them with the wine sauce, cover with plastic wrap and leave in the refrigerator for a couple of hours . After the cooling time, your figs in red wine sauce are ready, just remove the plastic wrap and serve them !
Figs in red wine sauce can be kept covered in the fridge for about 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If your indulgence knows no bounds, try accompanying them with vanilla ice cream or whipped cream.

