name:
Trio of Panna Cotta with Strawberries, Blueberries, and Mango
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: 2.1cups(500 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.2oz(6 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Strawberries: 1.3cups(200 g)
Blueberries: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Mango: 1
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Lemons: 0.5oz(15 g)
Agar agar: ½tsp(2 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the time to rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
The trio of panna cotta with strawberries, blueberries, and mango is a very colorful and delicious recipe, perfect for concluding a meal with flair or for enjoying a sweet, refreshing snack. The panna cotta is served in simple transparent glasses that showcase the layers alternating with different and tasty fruit sauces, in a mix of very distinctive colors. The fruit, with its slightly tart note, perfectly balances the taste, creating a unique dessert that is absolutely worth trying!
To prepare the trio of panna cotta with strawberries, blueberries, and mango, soak the gelatin sheets in a container with cold water for 10 minutes . Place a pot on the stove and pour in the cream . Split the vanilla bean lengthwise and scrape out the seeds with a small knife .
Add the seeds along with the whole bean to the cream , add the granulated sugar , and stir until it is dissolved , heating without bringing to a boil.
Remove the vanilla bean , then squeeze the gelatin sheets and add them to the cream , stirring with a whisk until completely dissolved .
Turn off the heat and using an adjustable funnel (alternatively, you can use a spoon or a kitchen ladle), pour about 1 1/4 inches of panna cotta . Once finished , place in the refrigerator to set for 2 hours. Meanwhile, you can prepare the fruit sauces: wash the fruit under plenty of fresh running water and dry it; blend the blueberries with 1 tsp of lemon juice and 2 tbsps of sugar, then strain the mixture with a sieve and set aside.
Peel the mango and obtain the pulp by cutting it into cubes . Blend it with 1 tsp of lemon juice until you get a smooth mixture .
Remove the stems from the strawberries and blend them with the sugar and the remaining lemon juice , then pass them through a fine-mesh sieve to remove the seeds ; take 2-3 tbsps of the mixture you obtained, heat it and add the agar agar ,
allowing it to dissolve completely . Add it to the cold mixture you set aside and mix everything . After the required time, remove the glasses from the refrigerator and pour the fruit sauces, that is, the second layer, filling them to about 1 1/4 inches ; let them rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
Once finished , pour the remaining panna cotta (if it thickens, heat it slightly on the stove), filling up to the rim . Refrigerate for another 2 hours, then you can serve your trio of panna cotta with strawberries, blueberries, and mango, completing with fresh fruit .
You can store the trio of panna cotta with strawberries, mango, and blueberries in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for up to 3-4 days.
The blueberry and mango sauces do not require the addition of agar agar, as both are characterized by a good texture; however, if they turn out to be liquid, you can add it, following the same procedure used for the strawberries.

