name:
Melon Preserve with Port
ingredients:
Melon: 4.4lbs(1.5 kg)
Port wine: 2.7oz(80 g)
Water: 2.1cups(500 g)
Sugar: 1 ¾cup(350 g)
Vanilla bean: 1tbsp(1 g)
Cinnamon sticks: ½tsp(1 g)
Cloves: 3

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the time for sterilizing the jars

instructions:
If you want to keep the memory of the sweet and slightly intoxicating taste of summer during the fall, melon preserve with Port is the best way to do it. Juicy melon balls dipped in a spiced syrup, enriched by Port, a fine Portuguese fortified wine that evokes thoughts of exciting journeys. Opening your jar, you will be intoxicated by an intense and fruity aroma, and you won't resist the temptation to taste the delicious melon balls paired with meats, cheeses, or simply on their own, immersed in their amber syrup. What are you waiting for? To indulge in this pleasure during the cold months, you need to prepare in advance! Rush to the market to buy the best melons, and join us in making this preserve, as simple as it is rewarding.
To prepare the melon preserve with Port, first get some glass jars and sanitize them, as indicated in the Ministry of Health guidelines listed at the end of the recipe. First, rinse them thoroughly under running water , then place them inside a pot , also inserting kitchen towels to prevent the jars from bumping into each other during boiling. Fill the pot with water until it covers the jars. Once it comes to a boil, lower the heat and let it boil for about 30 minutes. Ten minutes before draining the jars, submerge the jar lids to sterilize them as well. Once the sterilization time is up, turn off the heat and let them cool, then take the jars out of the pot and turn them upside down on a dry towel to let them dry completely.
Move on to handling the melon. Cut it in half and use a spoon to remove the seeds and internal filaments . Then, with a melon baller, scoop out all the pulp into balls , and set them aside.
In a large pot, place the water and sugar . Split a vanilla bean, scrape out the inner pulp with the tip of a knife, and put it into the pot .
Add also the pod, the cinnamon stick , and the cloves . Bring everything to a boil .
Once the syrup reaches a boil, turn off the heat and add the melon and the Port . Let it rest for 15 minutes, then, using a slotted spoon, scoop out the melon and set it aside.
Put the liquid back on the heat, and let it reduce over medium-high heat for about 15 minutes, until it reaches about half of its original volume . Turn off the heat, and add the melon again . Let it rest for a few minutes, and while it is still very hot, distribute the melon into the jars . You can use 2 jars of 8.8 oz each or one large 17.6 oz jar. Be careful not to press the melon balls too much and stop 0.8 inches from the jar's rim.
At this point, filter the cooking liquid and fill each jar , completely covering the melon but stopping 0.4 inches from the rim. If you like, you can also add the cloves, cinnamon, and vanilla, distributing them evenly among the jars. Place the press , then close each jar . If using jars with screw caps, screw the lid on well but without overtightening. You can proceed with boiling, or pasteurization, following the instructions in the Ministry of Health guidelines mentioned at the end of the recipe. If using jars with screw caps, once the jars have cooled, check if the vacuum has been properly created: you can press the center of the lid, and if you don't hear the classic "click-clack," the vacuum has occurred. If using jars with rubber gasket closures, when consuming the preserve, you can test the vacuum by pulling the tab: if pulling it produces a popping sound, it means the content was preserved with the correct vacuum. Conversely, if pulling the tab results in the gasket being "soft," it means the vacuum was not properly created, and it's better not to consume the content. Your melon preserve with Port is ready to be enjoyed!
The melon preserve with Port can be stored for 3 months, provided the vacuum has been properly created and the jars are stored in a cool, dry place, away from sources of light and heat. It is recommended to wait at least a week before consuming the preserve, to allow the melon to fully absorb all the aromas of the Port syrup. Once each jar is opened, it should be refrigerated and consumed within 3-4 days at most.
Homemade preparation of preserves and jams can present health risks. In a domestic setting, it is not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of foods, which industrial procedures are able to guarantee to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to meticulously follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it must always be kept in mind that the same food safety as that of professionally produced preserves and jams cannot be achieved. For proper preparation of homemade preserves, we refer you to the Ministry of Health guidelines .

