name:
Three Tomato Spaghetti
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 14.1oz(400 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 10.6oz(300 g)
Piccadilly tomatoes: 8oz(220 g)
San Marzano tomatoes: 7oz(200 g)
Shallot: 1.4oz(40 g)
Oregano: 4sprigs
Basil: 4leaves
Sugar: 2tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Three Tomato Spaghetti is an evergreen classic of Italian cuisine. In this version, we offer you a sauce made with a mix of three types of fresh tomatoes: cherry, piccadilly, and san marzano. The three tomato spaghetti will therefore have a delicate and intense flavor, using only genuine and fresh ingredients with the addition of oregano, fragrant basil leaves, and extra virgin olive oil. The sweet cherry tomatoes are caramelized in the oven, the piccadilly tomatoes are ideal for sauces that require short cooking times, as in this case, and the san marzano tomatoes have a tasty and meaty pulp. The three tomato spaghetti will therefore be a Mediterranean-flavored first course ideal for all seasons. Simple to prepare, you can also season your three tomato spaghetti with other aromatic herbs or make them even more delicious by grating salted ricotta or aged pecorino instead of Parmesan!
Also try the recipe for Three Tomato Paccheri , or our Spaghetti with Tomato and Caramelized Onions !
To prepare the three tomato spaghetti, start by chopping the fresh oregano which will be used to flavor the cherry tomatoes (you can also use dried oregano). Take a small bowl and put the 2 teaspoons of sugar. Add the chopped oregano and mix .
Then wash the cherry tomatoes, cut them in half and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper with the cut side facing up. Use a teaspoon to distribute the oregano and sugar mixture on each half of the tomato . Then drizzle the tomatoes with a bit of oil and bake in a preheated convection oven at 392°F for 20 minutes (if using a static oven, set it to 410°F for 25-30 minutes).
Once cooked, remove them from the oven , let them cool. Then gradually put them through a food mill to turn them into a sauce that you will collect in a small bowl .
Now move to the san marzano tomatoes. Wash them and cut them in half . Then use a teaspoon to scoop out the seeds . Finally, chop the tomatoes into pieces .
Place the chopped san marzano tomatoes in a bowl, add oil, salt, oregano, and basil coarsely chopped by hand . Now prepare the piccadilly tomatoes. Wash them and make a cross incision in the skin so that once cooked it will be easier to peel them. Then take a large pot, fill it with water, bring to a boil, and immerse the tomatoes . Blanch the tomatoes for about 30 seconds.
Then drain the piccadilly tomatoes and peel them with the help of a small knife ; remove the seeds and cut them lengthwise to obtain fillets .
Add the piccadilly tomato fillets to the chopped san marzano tomatoes and mix with a teaspoon . Clean and slice the shallot and put it in a pan to sauté with a bit of oil .
Sauté for a few moments, add a ladle of hot water to prevent the shallot from burning and pour in the previously obtained cherry tomato sauce . Mix and let it flavor for a few moments. Then add the mix of piccadilly and san marzano tomatoes .
Let the tomatoes flavor for 4-5 minutes . Meanwhile, put a large pot on the stove, fill it with salted water (if needed, you can add some cooking water to the tomato sauce) and when it boils, add the spaghetti . Cook the spaghetti for a few minutes, then drain them, reserving some cooking water, and transfer them directly to the pan .
Add a little cooking water to the pan if necessary so the pasta does not dry out excessively . Stir and finish cooking the pasta in the pan. You can add some fresh basil and grated Parmesan to taste . Then serve your three tomato spaghetti hot !
Three tomato spaghetti should be eaten immediately. The three tomato sauce can be stored in the refrigerator in a bowl covered with plastic wrap for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
New sauce = spaghetti, for Giallo. It’s our absolute favorite shape! However, this sauce goes perfectly with other types of pasta. If you want to remove the shallot, no problem: you can replace it with a clove of garlic and, while you're at it, lovers of strong flavors should know that a sprinkle of fresh or dried chili pepper is just the thing!

