name:
Hazelnut Crunch Basket
ingredients:
Chopped hazelnuts: 2tbsp(30 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(170 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)
Whole milk: 3cups(180 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Cornstarch: 2tsp(10 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(55 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(180 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Gelatin in sheets: 0.04oz(1 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Berries: 1.6oz(45 g)
Mint: 4tufts
Dark chocolate chips: 1oz(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour to cool the custard

instructions:
When you serve this hazelnut crunch basket filled with diplomat cream to your guests, you will undoubtedly leave them speechless. Success is guaranteed: the combination of caramelized hazelnuts, reminiscent of croccante , with their delicate yet intense flavor, the bitterness of dark chocolate, and the velvety texture of diplomat cream is perfect. It will be interesting to taste the delicate diplomat cream masterfully placed inside and continue to the bottom discovering also the crunchiness of the shell. As an individual spoon dessert, it can be an ideal and satisfying end to the meal: a true surprise earning a perfect score!
To prepare the hazelnut crunch basket with diplomat cream, start by preparing the base for the filling. Place the milk in a saucepan and add the vanilla pulp extracted from the pod and the whole pod . While the milk is heating, soak the gelatin and set it aside. Place the egg yolks and sugar in a mixing bowl , whisk by hand, and gradually incorporate the starch .
When the milk is hot, remove the vanilla pod and mix a couple of ladles into the egg yolk and sugar mixture . Then pour everything back into the saucepan with the remaining milk and let it thicken gently, stirring the cream continuously .
Drain and squeeze out the soaked gelatin and add it to the cream while it is cooking, stirring carefully to dissolve it . Transfer the hot custard to a wide, shallow dish, cover it with plastic wrap, and let it cool completely at room temperature : this will take about two hours.
In the meantime, focus on the crunch baskets. In another non-stick saucepan, put the water and sugar, then gently bring it to a temperature of 329°F (165°C) using a kitchen thermometer . If you don't have a thermometer, turn off the heat as soon as the sugar turns a blonde color . At this point, add the chopped hazelnuts to the caramel
and mix with a wooden spoon, cooking for another 2-3 minutes . Immediately transfer the hot crunch onto a silicone mat or a sheet of parchment paper , spread it out as much as possible with a spatula , and wait at least 10 minutes for it to cool completely.
To create the baskets, roughly break the cold crunch and put the pieces in a food processor : activate the blades and chop it very finely. Now place a 6-inch (15 cm) diameter pastry ring on the silicone mat or a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and fill it with about 1.6 oz (45 g) of crunch powder . After carefully removing the pastry ring, further compact the base with the back of a teaspoon . Bake for 3-4 minutes in a preheated static oven at 356°F (180°C) (if using a fan oven, bake at 320°F (160°C) for about 2 minutes).
Once baking is finished, let the crunch cool slightly and then detach it from the silicone mat or parchment paper very carefully . Transfer the crunch onto an inverted aluminum cup , pressing it as much as possible to its edges to give it the desired shape . Let the basket cool on the cup.
Now you can finish the filling. Place the fresh cream in a mixer bowl and whip it until stiff : add it to the completely cool custard and mix gently, stirring from bottom to top to avoid deflating the cream . Fill a piping bag fitted with a star nozzle with the diplomat cream , then place it in the refrigerator.
The last ingredient you need is chocolate. Chop it with a knife blade . Melt the chocolate in a double boiler: transfer the chopped chocolate to a bowl placed over a slightly larger pot filled with a bit of water, ensuring the water does not touch the bowl. Turn on the heat and let the chocolate melt completely . Take the crunch basket, which in the meantime has solidified and become crunchy again, and brush its inside with the still-warm melted chocolate .
It's time to fill the basket: take the piping bag with diplomat cream out of the refrigerator and fill the basket . Decorate with berries , chocolate chips, and finally a mint leaf . Your hazelnut crunch basket is ready to amaze your guests.
You can store the crunch and baskets in a tin container or under a glass cover. Once the diplomat cream has cooled, it can be frozen or stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, tightly sealed in an airtight container.
A delicious variation could be making the basket with chopped pistachios instead of hazelnuts.

