name:
Scarpaccia viareggina
ingredients:
White zucchini: 8.8oz(250 g)
Eggs: 1- (organic)
Sugar: 0.4cup(85 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(25 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(75 g)
Baking powder: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Whole milk: 0.3cup(65 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Basil: 2leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
They call it “the garden pie” because the essential ingredient is young zucchini; it is an ancient recipe prepared throughout Versilia, but the Viareggio version is the only sweet one; it owes its name to its appearance, which resembles an old shoe sole, but once you get past the initial skepticism, its exquisite taste conquers everyone at the first bite: we are talking about Scarpaccia! We know well that, unlike carrots which are now completely accepted in sweet recipes, zucchinis still face some skepticism... nothing could be more wrong! Zucchinis, with their delicate taste, are perfect for making light desserts very common in Anglo-Saxon countries. But the thing that made us fall in love with Scarpaccia is that here zucchinis are not just a light trick, but the absolute protagonists of a poor and ancient recipe that does not come from overseas but from a small Tuscan town of fishermen and farmers. It does not respond to a trend, but to a delicious tradition! Scarpaccia is very simple to prepare but requires some precautions: the zucchinis must be as small and tender as possible, those with the flower that are found in May and June. Using larger, darker zucchinis would make the good outcome of the cake completely impossible.
To prepare the Scarpaccia, start by cleaning the zucchinis, removing the ends and any flowers, which you can use in another recipe. Then cut the zucchinis into very thin rounds, using a mandoline , and set them aside. Melt the butter and, while it melts, in a bowl combine the egg and sugar .
Beat with a whisk until the mixture becomes frothy , then add the melted butter, cold milk , and sifted flour with baking powder .
Mix well with the whisk , then add the seeds of a vanilla pod and mix again to obtain a smooth batter .
Now pour the zucchinis into the bowl and mix to incorporate them into the batter . Pour the batter into a greased and floured 9-inch round pan , using a spatula to help.
Sprinkle the surface of the cake with hand-torn basil and drizzle with a little oil . Bake the Scarpaccia in a preheated static oven at 400°F for 15 minutes, then lower the temperature to 350°F and continue baking for another 45 minutes (if using a convection oven, bake at 350°F for 5 minutes, then lower the temperature to 320°F and bake for another 40 minutes). Take the Scarpaccia out of the oven and let it cool slightly before removing it from the pan onto the serving plate !
The Viareggio Scarpaccia can be stored in the fridge covered for 2-3 days. You can enjoy it cold or, if you prefer, heat it for a couple of minutes in the oven to enjoy it warm.

