name:
Savory Tart with Ricotta and Zucchini
ingredients:
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- cold from the fridge
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Water: 0.3cup(70 g)- (cold)
Salt: 1pinch
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Zucchini: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 4.4oz(125 g)- (a thick slice)
Mozzarella cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Eggs: 1.9oz(55 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)
Type 00 flour: 2tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
Whether it’s for a picnic in the park or a dinner with friends... but also in the winter snuggled on the couch with a warm blanket on your legs, summer savory tarts always have plenty of occasions to be served. The secret? Always find tasty and fun combinations to make them original and appetizing! This is the case with this savory tart with ricotta and zucchini. It starts with a slightly crispy crust made of brisé that holds a simple but tantalizing cream, with a versatile seasonal ingredient: grilled zucchini arranged on the tart to make it particularly scenic. This savory tart with ricotta and zucchini convinced us at the first bite, and by the second, we were even more sure, now it’s your turn to try it!
To prepare the savory tart with ricotta and zucchini, start with the shortcrust pastry : in a mixer, pour the flour and very cold refrigerator butter , then add a pinch of salt and blend until you get a sandy mixture .
Transfer the sandy mixture to a work surface and pour some cold water in the center . Work the dough quickly until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough . It's important not to work for too long, just enough for the flour, butter, and water to combine, then cover the shortcrust pastry dough with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 40 minutes before using it .
After the time has passed, butter a 11-inch diameter pan , pour some flour inside and make it adhere well to the entire surface by eliminating the excess.
Take the dough and roll it out with a rolling pin on a lightly floured work surface , until you get a thin sheet large enough to cover the entire pan, then gently roll it on the rolling pin to make it easier to lift and lay it on the pan .
Match the dough well inside the pan, then press the surface with the rolling pin to remove the excess that you can later reuse for other preparations, then cover the surface with parchment paper and place dried legumes or ceramic weights inside ,
and let it How to do blind baking in a preheated oven at 350°F for 20 minutes . In the meantime, prepare the filling: dice the cooked ham and do the same with the mozzarella .
In a bowl, pour the ricotta and mix it with an egg; if you notice that the mixture is too dry, add 1 tablespoon of milk to soften it , then add the diced ham and mozzarella and season with salt and pepper .
After mixing well, pour the mixture onto the precooked brisé and carefully level it with a spatula , then put the tart back in the oven for another 20-25 minutes at 350°F . While your savory tart is in the oven, wash the zucchinis, dry them, and remove the two ends ,
then slice them into rounds of about 0.2 inches and sprinkle with a drop of extra virgin olive oil so that during cooking, they will remain more beautiful to look at and will not stick to the grill, where you will cook the rounds for a few minutes, turning them as soon as the base is slightly striped ; at the end of cooking, season the grilled zucchinis with salt .
When the savory tart is cooked, take it out of the oven and immediately arrange the slightly overlapping zucchini slices, starting from the outside and continuing towards the center to completely cover the surface , and as soon as you have decorated your savory tart with ricotta and zucchini, you will be ready to enjoy it while it is still hot !
The savory tart with ricotta and zucchini can be stored for up to 2 days in the refrigerator, covering it well with plastic wrap; you can prepare the filling and base in advance and finish cooking the next day.

