name:
Vegetable Omelette
ingredients:
Eggs: 2- medium
Whole milk: 0.1cup(30 g)
Avocado: ½- Hass
White onions: ¼
Zucchini: 1- Romanesco
Spinach: 1cup(25 g)
Cluster tomatoes: ½
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Tabasco®: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 1 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
In the kitchen, the more you can concentrate authentic and enveloping flavors in a simple dish, the more you reach the heart of those who taste it, without too many special effects. Michelin-starred chef Cristina Bowerman literally won us over with a unique, rich, and colorful dish like the vegetable omelette: a tribute to both France and America, two countries that are great consumers of eggs, especially in the morning. The version of this "folded" frittata, golden on the outside and "runny" on the inside as only a perfect omelette can be, hides a heart of zucchini, tomato, and tender spinach. The combination with hass avocado pulp, a compact and sweet variety, makes this dish even more substantial. A final flavorful touch with a few drops of Tabasco and you'll be ready to enjoy or make others enjoy a soft and tasty dish, perhaps accompanied by crunchy slices of country bread.
To prepare the vegetable omelette, start with the vegetables: wash the spinach leaves gently and let them dry. Then take the half white onion, cut off the top part . To cut more comfortably, you can leave most of the outer skin on so you have a way to hold it while cutting, making it easier to make very thin almost transparent slices , keeping the onion steady. In a pan, pour about 1 tbsp of oil, add the very thinly sliced onion . Stir occasionally and let it caramelize over medium heat. The onion should acquire a delicate golden color, it will take about 5-6 minutes.
Meanwhile, take the vine-ripened tomato (not overly ripe), cut it in half , remove the stem by cutting around the green part , then slice it without separating the slices .
Trim the zucchini and cut it in half lengthwise ; slice each half into thin slices . Add the zucchini to the pan only when the onions are translucent ,
slightly increase the heat, stir occasionally , and cook for about 6 minutes. When ready, turn off the heat and transfer them to a bowl ; this will help them cool more quickly .
Prepare the omelette: in a bowl, break the eggs, add a pinch of salt then add the milk and mix everything with a hand whisk until the mixture forms a ribbon when lifting the whisk .
In a pan, heat the remaining oil ; when the zucchini has slightly cooled, add them to the egg and milk mixture , stir and pour the egg mixture into the hot oil pan .
If the zucchini is too clustered in the center, move them only at the beginning with a spatula to redistribute them . Then cook over very low heat and cover with a lid ; this way the omelette will cook both above and below, but the surface will remain very soft and a bit moist. If you see it setting quickly, you can remove it from the heat and put it back on at intervals while preparing the remaining ingredients. Cut the avocado in half ,
then remove the pit , score the flesh with a knife to create regular strips , then scoop out the entire inner edge to extract the flesh more easily (do this at the time of serving to avoid oxidation).
In a few minutes, your vegetable omelette will be ready as a base and still "runny" on the surface; you can then place the sliced vine-ripened tomato and spinach leaves on one half .
Fold the omelette over itself and cover again with the lid, cooking over very low heat for a few more moments , so that the moist part can set slightly. Your vegetable omelette is ready: transfer it to a serving plate accompanied by avocado and tomato pulp, season with a few drops of Tabasco . You can also serve the vegetable omelette with another seasonal side dish.
It is recommended to consume the vegetable omelette immediately, it is not advisable to store in the fridge or freeze.
When salting the eggs, remember to work them promptly because the salt tends to "cook the egg" as they say in jargon, making the outer part hard.
The Hass avocado is a very sweet variety, delicious both raw and for making a creamy guacamole sauce. The most nutritious and valuable part of the fruit is near the skin, so if you scoop with a teaspoon you will get the maximum taste and properties of the avocado!

