name:
Zucchini Quiche
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Butter: 7.1oz(100 g)
Water: 3.4tbsp(50 g)- chilled
Fine salt: 1pinch
Zucchini: 1lb(500 g)
Taleggio cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Leeks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(200 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Eggs: 3- medium
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Nutmeg: to taste- for grating
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the brisèe dough

instructions:
The queen of all savory pies is the famous quiche Lorraine . Its rich filling of cream, eggs, and cheese has intrigued palates worldwide. There are many ways to make a quiche, and zucchini quiche is one of them. For the base, instead of Savory shortcrust pastry , we relied on the delicious brisée and opted for a tasty yet delicate filling: zucchini, cream, and Taleggio cheese. Unlike the quiche Lorraine or another of our tasty variations, the vegetable quiche , this savory pie can also be offered to your vegetarian friends and family as it contains no bacon! And if you enjoy this version, you should compare it with our Zucchini Trombetta Quiche ! If you love experimenting with new ideas in the kitchen, try our soft savory tart with zucchini , made with a smart mold.
To prepare the zucchini quiche, start with the brisée dough. All ingredients should be cold, and you can work by hand, as shown here, or in a mixer by adding all the ingredients together. In a bowl, pour the flour, salt , and cold butter in pieces ; crumble the mixture by hand .
When you have obtained small crumbs , pour in the ice-cold water and briefly knead until the ingredients are combined . Transfer the mixture to a board
and knead for a few moments , just enough to obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough to wrap in plastic wrap. Let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 40 minutes . Meanwhile, prepare the quiche filling: dice the Taleggio cheese. Then trim the leek, removing the beard and the green part. Remove the outermost layers, then cut into thin slices .
Move on to the zucchini: trim and cut them into thin slices as well . Heat the oil in a pan and add the leeks , sauté on high heat for a few moments and add the zucchini . Stir occasionally and cook over medium heat for about 10 minutes.
At the end of cooking, season with salt and flavor with a bit of chopped parsley . Give it a final toss, turn off the heat, and let it cool slightly in a bowl . Move on to the quiche cream: in a bowl, break the eggs and add the cream ,
the grated cheese , and flavor by grating some nutmeg . Mix everything with a whisk .
Pour the mixture into the bowl with the now cooled zucchini . Add the diced Taleggio cheese and combine everything .
At this point, retrieve the brisée from the fridge and roll it out on a lightly floured board. Use a rolling pin to get a sheet a few millimeters thick . Roll it onto the rolling pin and then unroll it into a 12-inch mold with a height of 1.4 inches . Pour the filling and level the surface .
Fold the overhanging part of the brisée inward . Bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for about 50 minutes . Once cooked, remove your zucchini quiche from the oven and let it cool for a few minutes before enjoying it hot !
Once ready, your zucchini quiche can be stored for up to a couple of days, but it's better to consume it as soon as possible to avoid losing consistency.
You can freeze your zucchini quiche once cooked.
The brisée dough can be prepared in advance and kept in the fridge for a couple of days or frozen for a month.
The zucchini quiche is a rich and succulent preparation. You can add bacon cubes, like in Quiche Lorraine, to make it truly unique. If you prefer to stay vegetarian, add some boiled potato cubes and replace the cheese as you wish.

