name:
Pasta with cherry tomatoes and stracchino
ingredients:
Gluten-free Fusilli pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 10.6oz(300 g)
Stracchino cheese: 1cup(230 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Brown sugar: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Oregano: to taste- fresh

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Fleshy and very sweet, the Cherry Tomato Preserve are a must-have on summer tables. They are delicious on their own, perfect for enjoying on Trio of Bruschettas or adding to a rich vegetable ragù . They are the undisputed stars of many summer dishes. Here, we offer you a combination that will make your mouth water: pasta with cherry tomatoes and stracchino. The secret to this exquisite dish lies in its velvety pink cream that envelops the fusilli, making them even more appetizing. You'll find that creating a wholesome and tasty dish at the same time is not an impossible mission!
To prepare the pasta with cherry tomatoes and stracchino, first place a pot filled with salted water on the stove and bring it to a boil, it will be used for cooking the pasta. Pour two-thirds of the stracchino into a blender bowl, add half of the already washed and dried cherry tomatoes , season with salt, pepper, and fresh oregano leaves (reserve a few for the final garnish) , and finally, add 3 tablespoons of olive oil .
Blend everything until you get a smooth cream . Meanwhile, pour the pasta into the boiling water and cook for the time indicated on the package. In the meantime, cut the remaining cherry tomatoes in half .
Heat the olive oil in a pan, add the peeled garlic clove , let it flavor for a few moments, then add the cherry tomatoes and the brown sugar
and sauté over high heat for a couple of minutes, then remove the garlic . In the meantime, the pasta will have cooked, drain it directly into the pan with the cherry tomatoes and add the tomato and stracchino cream .
Let it flavor over low heat just to warm the sauce, then turn off the heat and add fresh oregano leaves . Serve the pasta by garnishing the plates with the remaining stracchino and stir to melt it. Enjoy your pasta with cherry tomatoes and stracchino immediately .
We recommend consuming the pasta with cherry tomatoes and stracchino immediately to prevent the cheese from setting.
When it's no longer in season, simply replace the cherry tomatoes with peeled tomatoes: this way you can enjoy this pasta all year round!

