name:
Potato baskets with zucchini and cheese
ingredients:
Potatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Smoked scamorza cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Butter: to taste- drumstick

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
On the buffet dinner table with friends, finger food is a must, delicious snacks to enjoy in one bite, quick and informal, that don't require the use of cutlery! The recipes for these small delights are countless: flaky Savory croissants , golden croquettes , tasty mini puff pastry pizzas and Eggplant balls with scamorza heart , we have something for everyone's taste. The long list continues with the recipe we propose here: potato baskets with zucchini and cheese. We transformed these versatile tubers into delicious baskets filled with sautéed zucchini and layers of melty scamorza cheese. Beautiful to see and good to eat, the potato baskets with zucchini and cheese will disappear in no time!
Don't miss other enticing spring appetizers like the zucchini tartlets !
To prepare the potato baskets with zucchini and cheese, first peel the potatoes and then cut them into 1 mm thin slices using a mandoline . Transfer them to a bowl and season with olive oil ,
salt, and oregano . Stir to coat well, then butter 12 aluminum molds , place the potato slices first on the bottom
and then on the sides to completely line the molds . Now place them on an oven rack
and bake in a preheated fan oven at 392°F (200°C) for 20 minutes. Meanwhile, cut the scamorza cheese into cubes , wash and trim the zucchini, then dice them . In a pan, pour the oil and add the unpeeled garlic clove ,
let it flavor for a few moments, then add the zucchini , season with salt , and cook for 15 minutes over medium heat. When done, remove the garlic and set aside.
In the meantime, the baskets will have finished cooking, remove them from the oven . Fill the baskets with a few cubes of scamorza cheese , then with the zucchini
and finish with a final layer of scamorza cheese . At this point, return to the oven for another 10 minutes, just long enough to melt the cheese. Unmold the potato baskets , let them cool slightly, and then serve them at the table .
You can store the potato baskets in the refrigerator for a couple of days. We do not recommend freezing after cooking.
Replace the zucchini with a mix of diced seasonal vegetables. Alternatively, you can use another soft cheese of your choice instead of scamorza.

