name:
Upside-Down Zucchini and Tuna Tart
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8oz(230 g)- (round)
Zucchini: 3
Tuna in oil: 5.6oz(160 g)- (with Calabrian chili) drained
Asiago cheese: (150 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: 3sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 18 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
Outdoor buffet, picnic with friends, or a dinner party, these are just some of the occasions to enjoy our delicious upside-down zucchini tart, an appetizer with simple goodness that combines the tantalizing taste of tuna in oil with the delicate flavor of zucchini, all brought together by melted chunks of Asiago cheese. Few and simple ingredients, which nod to the summer season, are the stars of this easy and quick recipe, perfect for a culinary challenge aimed at beginners! The result is a tasty appetizer to be enjoyed in slices or served in cubes on a cutting board and accompanied by a fresh glass of bubbles to whet your guests' appetites!
Try also the sweet version: upside-down orange cake !
To prepare the upside-down zucchini and tuna tart, start by washing and drying the vegetables. Then trim the ends and slice them into rounds about 0.4 inches . Set aside for a moment, and crush a clove of garlic without peeling it .
Next, move on to the Asiago cheese. Remove the outer rind and cut it into sticks about 0.4 inches thick and 1.2 inches long . Place a pan on the stove and heat a drizzle of oil along with the garlic, after a few moments add the zucchini , salt and pepper to taste, and sauté briefly, moving the pan. Then let them brown for 4-5 minutes over high heat without moving them; at the end of cooking, when they are well browned on the side in contact with the bottom of the pan, remove the garlic .
Line the bottom of a 11-inch mold with a sheet of parchment paper and then add the zucchini with the browned side in contact with the bottom of the mold , distributing them all over the surface . Add the tuna
so that it is well distributed over the zucchini , do the same with the cheese and then scent with the thyme leaves. Finally, unroll the puff pastry on top ,
Arrange the edges by folding them inward (13-14) and prick the surface with the tines of a fork .
Bake in a preheated oven at 392°F for 10-12 minutes and then let it cool for a few minutes before turning it over onto a serving plate. Remove the parchment paper and your upside-down zucchini and tuna tart is ready: just enjoy it !
It is recommended to consume the upside-down zucchini and tuna tart immediately; if you prefer, you can also store it in the refrigerator, however, the puff pastry will lose its texture and the zucchini will become soft. Freezing is not recommended.
The upside-down zucchini and tuna tart can be served round or rectangular: therefore, if you find puff pastry in this shape, it will be easier to cut portions. Instead of Asiago, you can add tastier cheeses such as smoked scamorza or caciocavallo.

