name:
Battered Cod
ingredients:
Desalted cod: 1fillet
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)- cold
Beer: 10.6oz(300 g)- chilled
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp
Fine salt: ½tsp
Black pepper: to taste
Mayonnaise: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Ketchup: 2tbsp(30 g)
Mustard: 1tsp
Pickles: 2
Tabasco®: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the cooling time for the bowl and flour (15 min.)

instructions:
Battered cod is a tasty and spicy variant of the classic fried cod , a timeless home recipe perfect for many occasions, such as a Christmas appetizer, or simply to start a seafood dinner, or even for a delicious aperitif! We enriched the classic batter, made of beer and flour, with a pinch of paprika to tantalize your taste buds even more and make this dish truly flavorful and crispy. And to accompany these crunchy bites, we offer a tasty and aromatic sauce with spicy notes, enhanced by the pickles, to dip them in. Cod lovers will not be able to resist this delightful version with the batter ! Here are many other delicious recipes based on this versatile fish:

To prepare the battered cod, first place the flour and the bowl in the freezer for 15 minutes; it is important that they are very cold. Prepare the sauce: chop the pickles , then pour the mayonnaise and ketchup into a bowl.
Then add the chopped pickles , the mustard , and 2 teaspoons of the pickle brine .
Finish with a dash of Tabasco and mix to combine, set the sauce aside. Cut the desalted and skinless cod into cubes of about 1.5 inches .
In a bowl, add the flour, salt, pepper , and paprika . While mixing with a whisk, gradually add the ice-cold beer .
You should get a smooth, lump-free batter . Heat the frying oil in a deep pot until it reaches 356°F. Dip the cod pieces in the batter , then fry them in the oil a few at a time , no more than 3 pieces at a time.
Fry for 5-8 minutes or until golden brown , then drain on a tray lined with paper towels and salt to taste. Serve the battered cod immediately with the sauce .
It is recommended to consume the battered cod immediately.
You can also use sparkling water for the batter, but it will be less aromatic.
While the cod is frying, place the batter in the freezer to keep it from warming up.

