name:
Gratinated Squid and Shrimp with Vegetables
ingredients:
Calamari (squid): 10oz(280 g)- (approximately 4)
Shrimps: 7.1oz(200 g)- (about 10)
Zucchini: 3.5oz(100 g)
Red peppers: 0.5lb(100 g)
Red onions: 2.5oz(70 g)
Stale bread: 2.8oz(80 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Smoked paprika: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Pepper: to taste- grain mix

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The gratinated squid and shrimp with vegetables is a second course of fish rich in flavors and colors. Oven cooking will ensure lightness and give an irresistible crunchy crust, thanks to the pleasantly spiced breadcrumbs. Squid and shrimp are inseparable in many fish-based recipes: indispensable in Mixed fried calamari and shrimp with mayonnaise and yogurt sauce and Sea Skewers , they can also be found in more refined recipes such as Venere rice with squid and prawns . Bring taste and wholesomeness to your table with our simple and aromatic recipe for gratinated squid and shrimp with vegetables!
To prepare the gratinated squid and shrimp with vegetables, start by cleaning the shrimp: remove the head , peel off all the shell and remove the intestine (if you prefer, you can use a wooden skewer to help) then set the shrimp aside . Now take care of cleaning the squid: remove the tentacles and clean the inside of the squid well , rinsing it under running water.
Cut the squid into rings about 5/16 inch thick , while keeping the tentacles whole. Now cut the vegetables: wash, trim the zucchini, and cut it into slices about 3/16 inch thick . Wash the bell pepper, remove the seeds and inner filaments, and cut it into squares about 3/4 inch .

Clean and slice the onion to a thickness of about 3/16 inch . Now, prepare the breadcrumbs starting from a slice of dry bread, cutting it into large pieces and putting it in a kitchen mixer .
Blend the bread until it reaches the consistency of breadcrumbs and add the lemon zest , marjoram, thyme , oregano .

Season with smoked paprika , peppercorns , and salt .
Blend well to season . Pour the shrimp, squid, vegetables , and breadcrumb mixture into a bowl, and season with a drizzle of oil .

Mix well and spread on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , without overcrowding the ingredients, otherwise, they will struggle to gratinate. Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 15 minutes. After the time is up, give it another 15 minutes, increasing the temperature to 446°F. When all the ingredients are well-gratinated, your baking sheet is ready. Serve the gratinated squid and shrimp with vegetables immediately .
We recommend consuming the gratinated squid and shrimp with vegetables immediately.
If you prefer, you can replace the aromatic herbs with others of your choice, such as parsley, or if you want to give it a spicy note you can add a pinch of chili pepper to the breadcrumbs. Instead of chopping the stale bread in the mixer, you can use breadcrumbs and flavor it with spices.

