name:
Pasta with zucchini pesto, ricotta, and speck
ingredients:
Mezze Maniche Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Speck: 1.8oz(50 g)
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ½cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: (80 g)
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)- to grate
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The zucchini pesto is an easy and quick condiment to prepare, perfect for creamy first courses. With the recipe for pasta with zucchini pesto, ricotta, and speck we elevate the creaminess to the nth degree! Thanks to the addition of ricotta the pesto will have an even softer and velvety texture, which pleasantly contrasts with the crunchiness of the speck. A classic combination of flavors, zucchini and speck, which is always a guarantee of success! And pasta with zucchini pesto, ricotta, and speck is yet another, appetizing, confirmation...…
Also try these first courses with zucchini pesto:
To make pasta with zucchini pesto, ricotta, and speck, first trim the zucchini and roughly chop them . Transfer the zucchini to a mixer, then add the pine nuts and the garlic clove with the core removed .
Pour in the olive oil and blend to combine everything, then add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP and blend again. Finally, add the ricotta .
Blend until you get a smooth and homogeneous cream . Cut the speck into strips and brown it in a non-stick pan for about 5 minutes, without adding any fats ; it should be crispy and golden .
In the meantime, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the pasta . Drain the pasta al dente and transfer it to a bowl, then add the zucchini and ricotta pesto . Mix well to combine it with the sauce .
Distribute the pesto pasta on plates and complete with the crispy speck strips . Your pasta with zucchini pesto, ricotta, and speck is ready to be served !
It's recommended to consume the pasta with zucchini pesto, ricotta, and speck immediately.
If you prefer, you can replace the pine nuts with almonds to make the zucchini pesto.

