name:
Sicilian Pizzolo
ingredients:
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1.3cups(250 g)
Type 0 flour: 2cups(250 g)- Manitoba
Fresh brewer's yeast: 2tsp(10 g)
Water: 1.4cups(330 g)
Sugar: 2tsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 2 ½tsp(14 g)
Tomatoes: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Provola cheese: 12.3oz(350 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 13 min
Makes: 3 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 2 hours and 45 minutes of rising

instructions:
The Sicilian pizzolo is a local specialty, found in some parts of Sicily and especially typical of Sortino (SR), where it is prepared following precise criteria for both ingredients and procedure. In this recipe, we present a version of the pizzolo, a way to create this baked product that is halfway between the stuffed focaccia and the pizza . Originally, this preparation was merely the first batch of dough used to test the temperature of wood-fired ovens before baking the bread . Over time, pizzolo has become a recipe in its own right, earning a special place in Sicilian gastronomy, proposed and stuffed in many ways: we have chosen simple flavors with tomatoes, provola cheese, and a sprinkle of oregano! Discover how to prepare homemade pizzolo and don't miss other delicious Sicilian cuisine specialties such as:
To prepare the Sicilian pizzolo, pour the two flours into a bowl , crumble the yeast , and add part of the water .
Also add the sugar, oil , and salt. Pour in the remaining water gradually , mixing with a spoon to adjust the consistency of the dough.
Once the water is absorbed , let the dough rest covered with a cloth for 15 minutes . Pour the dough onto a lightly floured surface with semolina .
Work the dough by practicing slap and fold reinforcement folds , lifting the dough and letting it fall onto the surface, folding it over itself. Place the dough in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise for two hours at 77°F-79°F. After the resting time, the dough will have doubled in volume .
Place the dough on a surface, always floured with semolina , divide the dough into 3 equal parts which you will shape into rounds, place the dough balls on a tray :
Cover with a cloth and let rise a second time for 30 minutes . The dough balls are ready , transfer them back to the floured surface .
Press down in the center to spread the dough , and stretch it as you would pizza dough , achieving a diameter of about 8-9 inches. Flour both sides and transfer the pizzolo onto a baking stone heated in the oven at 465°F and bake for 7-8 minutes .
Remove the pizzolo from the oven , let it cool slightly, then cut it in half and fill it with tomato slices .
Salt and season with oil and oregano . Cover with provola slices , close it, and sprinkle with Parmigiano Reggiano .
A drizzle of oil and more oregano . Bake again in the oven, still on the baking stone, for 5 minutes at 465°F. Remove from the oven and serve the Sicilian pizzolo hot .
We recommend consuming the filled Sicilian pizzolo immediately; if any remains, store it in the fridge for no more than a couple of days.
The pizzolo dough can also be prepared with a stand mixer using the dough hook. If you don't have a baking stone, use regular round pizza pans.

