name:
Sea Bream in Crazy Water (Orata all'Acqua Pazza)
ingredients:
Sea bream: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (1 or 2 depending on the weight)
Tomatoes: - cherry tomatoes 300 gr
Parsley: - a sprig
Garlic: 4cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Salt: to taste
Pepper: to taste
Water: - half a glass
Wine: - white half a glass

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
The sea bream in crazy water is a classic fish recipe with a delicate taste and very easy to prepare, similar to the sea bass in crazy water variant. It is said that the crazy water cooking method was invented by the fishermen of Ponza, a Lazio island, and became very fashionable in Capri thanks to Totò, who was fond of fish cooked in crazy water. Sea bream in crazy water is the ideal main course to serve during the spring-summer period, as it is a light recipe and also delicious when eaten cold! The sea bream in crazy water is a dish that will amaze your guests with its simplicity and irresistible flavor.
Discover also these fish recipes:
First, to prepare the sea bream in crazy water, start with cleaning the sea bream. Remove the side fins , the dorsal fins , and the ventral fins (you can leave the caudal fin to check later if the fish is cooked).
Scale the sea bream , make a cut on the belly and gut the sea bream .
Then rinse the sea bream under cold running water, making sure it is also clean inside . Place a pinch of salt, a clove of garlic, and a couple of parsley leaves inside the belly. Take a baking dish (or a baking tray), sprinkle the bottom with extra virgin olive oil, then lay the sea bream (or the sea bream if you chose the 1.75 lbs one). Cut the cherry tomatoes into wedges or cubes and add them to the baking dish along with the remaining two sliced garlic cloves, parsley leaves , salt, and pepper (or fresh chili if you like), water, and white wine ; the liquids should not cover the sea bream entirely but should remain below half the height of the fish. Bake in a preheated oven at 430°F for about 20-25 minutes: to make sure the fish is cooked, try to pull out the caudal fin: if it comes off easily, the sea bream is cooked; otherwise, if it resists, cook the fish for a few more minutes.
When the sea bream in crazy water is cooked, remove the baking dish from the oven, place the sea bream on a plate, remove the skin and divide the sea bream into fillets removing all the bones (the large central ones and the lateral ones) and the head. Once you have the 4 fillets, place them on a serving plate, drizzling them with the cooking juices and serve immediately. If you prefer pan cooking, proceed in the same way, cooking over a flame with a lid on the used pan.
Store the sea bream in crazy water in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to two days.
If you prefer pan cooking, proceed in the same way, making sure to cover the pan you use with a lid during cooking.

