name:
Carasau Bread Lasagna with Asparagus
ingredients:
Carasau bread: 10.5oz(300 g)
Asparagus: 12.3oz(350 g)
Brie cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1cup(100 g)
Walnut kernels: 1 ¼cup(120 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Soy milk: 2cups(500 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(50 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(50 g)
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Lasagna with carasau bread and asparagus is a light and surprising reinterpretation of a great classic of Italian cuisine: lasagne alla bolognese . No egg pasta , but very thin sheets of carasau bread that soften and blend layer after layer with the delicate flavor of asparagus.
What makes this recipe even more special is the homemade béchamel sauce made with soy milk: creamy just right, perfect for this carasau bread and asparagus lasagna and for those looking for a plant-based alternative without giving up the enveloping texture of a well-made lasagna. The result? A balanced, tasty dish, ideal for a lighter Sunday lunch or to surprise guests with something different than usual.
Personality is the key word for this carasau bread and asparagus lasagna, showing that even the most beloved recipes can evolve, blending tradition and creativity naturally. All that's left is to get cooking and start preparing!
Here you can find other vegetarian lasagna :
To prepare the carasau bread lasagna with asparagus, start with the latter: after removing the woody stems, boil them for a few minutes in water until they are slightly softened . Drain them and place them in ice water to stop the cooking .
Set the tips aside and cut the rest into chunks . Transfer the pieces to the blender cup with a little water .
Pour in the oil , salt, and pepper . Blend finely with the immersion blender, adding water as needed .
Set the obtained cream aside for a moment and move on to the soy béchamel: pour the milk into a saucepan with salt and nutmeg . Let it heat up to a slight boil.
In the meantime, melt the butter in a saucepan , add the flour , and stir continuously with the whisk until the roux is golden .
At this point, you can pour the hot milk , stir with the whisk, and cook until it becomes a fluid cream . Turn off the heat and set aside a few spoonfuls; you can add the asparagus cream to the rest of the soy béchamel .
Mix well . All that's left is to coarsely chop the walnut kernels and move on to assembling the lasagna. Grease the bottom of a 10-inch square baking dish .
Spread the asparagus béchamel , then the carasau bread; don't worry about breaking it, the important thing is to cover the bottom , and then add some more asparagus béchamel .
Also add a bit of soy béchamel , the asparagus tips , and the walnuts .
Continue with the Parmesan and Brie slices . At this point, proceed in the same order, starting with a layer of carasau bread .
continue with the asparagus and soy béchamel, the asparagus tips , grated Parmigiano Reggiano, and Brie slices . Repeat for another two layers
Pour a drizzle of oil on the surface and bake in a static oven at 392°F for about 15 minutes, plus a few minutes of grilling to brown the surface . Your carasau bread lasagna with asparagus is ready.
You can store the carasau bread lasagna with asparagus for a couple of days in the refrigerator.
You can also freeze them raw or cooked.
If you want more stringy carasau bread lasagna with asparagus, replace the Brie with a cheese of your choice: we suggest mozzarella or mild provolone.

