name:
Spaghetti with Sauce, Cod, and Herb Bread
ingredients:
Spaghetti Quadrati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Cod: 7oz(200 g)
Canned cherry tomatoes: 1.8cups(400 g)- del Piennolo
White wine: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 0.3cup(40 g)- coarse ground
Thyme: 3sprigs
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Sage: 2leaves
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.8tbsp(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
The star of today's recipe? Simplicity! Spaghetti with sauce, cod, and herb bread is a tasty and genuine first course, enriched with Piennolo cherry tomatoes, cod nuggets and a special breadcrumb mixture made with toasted bread and aromatic herbs. Moreover, the original nest-style presentation makes them particularly appetizing just to look at. In short, if you thought that quick fish dishes like the calamarata or the seafood carbonara were the only salvation, you can finally add this delicious recipe of spaghetti with sauce, cod, and herb bread to your menu. Let's prepare them together!
To prepare spaghetti with sauce, cod, and herb bread, start with the breadcrumb mixture. Roughly chop the thyme leaves, sage, and rosemary needles with a knife . Then remove the seeds from the chili pepper - or just slit it - and move to the stove. In a pan, heat the oil along with the garlic, slit chili pepper , and the aromatic herb mix .
Let it flavor on low heat for about 1 minute, then remove the garlic and chili pepper , increase the heat, add the bread, and a pinch of pepper: let it flavor, stirring often . Once ready, set it aside .
Bring a pot of boiling water to the stove and add salt when it's time to pour the pasta. In the meantime, prepare the sauce. Heat a saucepan with a drop of oil and a clove of garlic . Then add the frozen cod nuggets and let them sizzle for 1 minute .
Deglaze with white wine and as soon as the alcoholic part has evaporated, set the fish aside . In the cooking base, add the tomato .
Lower the temperature a bit, adjust salt, and cook for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally . Meanwhile, also cook the pasta and remember to drain it 2 minutes before the end of the cooking time indicated on the package. Remove the garlic from the sauce
and add the fish pieces along with a splash of pasta water , cooking for a couple of minutes before draining the spaghetti .
Grate a bit of pepper, toss briefly , and plate by forming nests using tongs or a large fork . Garnish on top with the breadcrumb mixture and immediately enjoy your spaghetti with sauce, cod, and herb bread .
It is recommended to consume the spaghetti with sauce, cod, and herb bread as soon as they are ready.
Enhance the spaghetti with sauce, cod, and herb bread with a drizzle of raw oil at the end of cooking. The chili pepper without seeds or slit will release a very light spiciness, but if you don't like it, you can easily omit it. Then vary the tomato: the Piennolo one is rich in flavor and saltiness, choose cherry tomatoes for a sweeter sauce or a grape tomato for a balanced flavor.

