name:
Figs with Pecorino
ingredients:
Purple figs: 4- (about 330 g)
Pecorino toscano cheese: 4.25oz(120 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)
Rosemary: to taste
Pecans: ⅛cup(20 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 8 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Figs with Pecorino: a combination that dates back to ancient times. Definitely a rustic tradition and a rediscovery by great chefs today. The union between the sweetness of the late summer fruit, perfect for a classic dessert or served as a starter along with one of the most flavorful and tasty cheeses, featured in main courses or simple spring appetizers paired with Broad beans, pecorino and bacon for example. How to pair them to create a perfect dish to serve as an appetizer? Our recipe is very simple but offers a rich and unique flavor! Grilling the figs will give a slight caramelization of the sugars, which will be contrasted by the strong taste of Pecorino. The aroma of rosemary and a sprinkle of pecans will complete the dish, making this easy and quick appetizer of figs with pecorino truly gourmet!
To prepare the figs with pecorino, start with the latter: grate it and set it aside. Pour the cream into a saucepan , heat it, then add the grated Pecorino , and stir.
Also add the water and continue stirring until the cheese is completely melted. Season with freshly ground pepper and finely chopped rosemary . Turn off the heat and set the fondue aside.
Take the figs, wash them well, and dry them. Remove the stem with a knife and cut them in half . Season with salt, freshly ground pepper .
Also season with a drizzle of oil . Heat a grill on the stove and when it is hot, place your figs inside . Grill the figs for 1 minute, then turn them over and wait another minute.
Transfer the figs to a plate, top with a spoonful of fondue , and garnish with pieces of pecans and rosemary needles .
It is recommended to consume the figs with pecorino immediately.
Instead of pecans, you can use toasted walnuts, almonds, or hazelnuts!

