name:
Moussaka
ingredients:
Beef: 1.1lbs(500 g)- ground
Pork: 1.1lbs(500 g)- ground
Tomato purée: 0.42cup(100 g)
Tomato paste: 2tbsp(25 g)
Onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Garlic: 2cloves
Sugar: ½tsp
Red wine: 1glass
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Star anise: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Eggplant: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Type 00 flour: to taste- (for flouring)
Peanut seed oil: to taste- (for frying)
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Greek yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- to grate
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Oregano: to taste- dried

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 2 h 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
It is one of the most famous dishes of Greek cuisine and has always conquered anyone who tastes it: we are talking about moussaka, the typical eggplant and minced meat casserole covered with a generous layer of béchamel! A recipe far from quick and light, but we assure you that each layer will reward you with its rich and succulent taste… word of Vasiliki Pierrakea who shows us how to prepare this delicacy step by step. In this version, the ragù is based on beef and pork. There are no potatoes, but rather two layers of fried eggplant slices as tradition dictates. The béchamel is enriched with yogurt which makes it dense and full-bodied just right. In short, a sort of lasagna in Hellenic style that will literally make you lick your chops… if you are among those who have never had the opportunity to taste moussaka, the time has finally come to try it!
Also discover these famous Greek cuisine recipes:
To make the moussaka, start by preparing the ragù: clean and coarsely chop the celery and onion . Heat a generous amount of oil in a saucepan and add the onions .
Also add the celery and peeled garlic cloves and sauté until the onion is softened, then add the sugar .
At this point, add the beef and pork and brown it over high heat, breaking it up with a wooden spoon .
After about 5 minutes, deglaze with red wine , then season with cinnamon, star anise , and bay leaves .
Add the tomato puree and tomato paste , mix well and let it simmer over high heat. Add the chopped parsley .
Grate some nutmeg , season with salt and pepper. Lower the heat and cook for about an hour and a half .
Move on to the eggplants: remove the stem and trim the sides , then cut them lengthwise into slices about 0.4 inches thick . Flour the eggplant slices on both sides and heat the seed oil to a temperature of 355°F.
Immerse the eggplants in the hot oil and fry until golden brown , then drain on paper towels and let them rest .
In the meantime, prepare the béchamel: pour the milk into a small saucepan and heat it with the addition of nutmeg and pepper .
Meanwhile, place another saucepan on the stove with the flour and butter and stir until you get a golden roux , then add the hot milk .
Continue stirring over medium heat to thicken the mixture . When you have obtained a rather thick béchamel, turn off the heat and let it cool for 5 minutes. Finally, add the Greek yogurt and mix to incorporate it evenly, adjusting with more pepper and nutmeg to taste .
You're ready to assemble the moussaka: grease a deep baking dish measuring about 10x8 inches at the base , cover the bottom with a spoonful of béchamel , and arrange a layer of eggplants, slightly overlapping them .
Sprinkle with some grated Parmesan , breadcrumbs , and oregano .
Cover with a generous amount of ragù, distributing it evenly over the entire surface , then add another layer of eggplants, again slightly overlapping the slices . Sprinkle again with Parmigiano Reggiano DOP, breadcrumbs, and oregano, then cover everything with the béchamel and level the surface.
Finish with more Parmigiano Reggiano DOP and breadcrumbs, then bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F for 45 minutes . Remove from the oven and serve your moussaka !
The moussaka can be stored in the refrigerator for about 2-3 days.
You can freeze it after cooking and allowing it to cool completely.
In central Greece, they often add lamb mince to the meat ragù.
On the island of Naxos, they often use Gruyère instead of Parmigiano Reggiano DOP!

