name:
Cherry Clafoutis
ingredients:
Eggs: 3- medium
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(90 g)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cherries: 5cups(700 g)
Brandy: 0.7oz(20 g)
Butter: 0.4oz(10 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
Today we want to introduce you to a renowned dessert of French origin, specifically from the Limousin region. Cherry clafoutis is one of the most famous versions of this dessert, which is usually made with seasonal fruit and enjoyed warm. Its name derives from the dialect "clafir" which means to garnish, fill. According to tradition, clafoutis was made with whole wild cherries, with very aromatic pits, and was the meal of farmers, who took it with them during workdays while cutting and gathering hay. Cherry clafoutis is an oven-baked dessert, simple to make. Depending on the season, clafoutis is made with different fruits, from cherries, and takes the name “flognarde” when prepared with other fruits. Whether it’s Peach Clafoutis , apricots, raspberries, apples, Clafoutis with plums , or grapes, choose based on your taste and what nature offers!
To prepare cherry clafoutis, wash the cherries, dry them, remove their stems and pit them . Set them aside and start making the batter: in a bowl, combine room temperature eggs with sugar and start beating them with a mixer .
Once you have a light and frothy mixture that has doubled in volume, add the sifted flour , salt, and vanilla bean seeds (to obtain them, you will need to cut the bean and scrape it with a knife). Then continue beating with the mixer at low speed .
Using a hand whisk, gradually add the milk, not too cold, little by little , and the brandy . In this way, you will obtain a batter that is not too thick. Lightly butter a low-edged baking dish with a diameter of 11 inches (28 cm) and sprinkle it with sugar .
Distribute the pitted cherries on the bottom of the baking dish until they cover the entire area and pour the batter over them . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F (180°C) for 55 minutes, until it is well golden on the surface (if using a fan oven, bake at 320°F (160°C) for about 45 minutes). Once cooked, remove your cherry clafoutis from the oven, let it cool slightly, and serve.
Cherry clafoutis can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days, well covered. Clafoutis can also be frozen in a tightly sealed bag and then defrosted at room temperature or in the microwave on the defrost setting.
The recommended liquor for preparing cherry clafoutis is Brandy, but if you wish, you can also use Kirsch or Rum. You can also replace 3.5 oz (100 ml) of milk with fresh cream and sprinkle the cherries with ground cinnamon before covering them with the batter and baking.
The original cherry clafoutis recipe called for the use of whole cherries, with the pit, noting that this made the dessert more flavorful. Many thought the real reason for this was practicality: it was much quicker and more convenient not to pit each cherry! In fact, some say that cherries cooked with the pit are indeed more flavorful and lose less juice during cooking. It is equally true that using pitted cherries makes enjoying this magnificent dessert much more satisfying!

