name:
Fish and chips
ingredients:
Cod: 14oz(400 g)- (or desalted cod)
Potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Salt: to taste
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Rice flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1 ¼tsp(6 g)
Vodka: 10.6oz(300 g)
Blond beer: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Honey: 1spoonful
Peanut seed oil: 8 ½cups(2 l)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time of the batter in the refrigerator (30 minutes) and the soaking time of the potatoes (20 minutes).

instructions:
Fish and chips is not just a main course, but an iconic recipe, typical of British cuisine. Cod is dipped in a batter that, once fried, becomes a crispy shell that envelops the tender and succulent fish bites. The fries have the same textures, crispy on the outside and soft on the inside, ready to be dipped in your favorite sauces. To achieve the perfect frying, it is essential to follow some small but indispensable tips that we will reveal here. All you have to do is roll up your sleeves and try this fantastic street food at home!
If you are looking for other dishes with cod, also try:
To prepare fish and chips, first make the batter. In a bowl, pour the all-purpose flour, rice flour , baking powder , and honey .
Add the vodka , light beer , and a pinch of salt .
Mix well with a whisk , cover with plastic wrap , and let rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, peel the potatoes .
Cut them first into slices and then into sticks , soak them in cold water for 20 minutes, making sure to change the water several times, this way you will remove most of the starch. After the time has passed, drain and dry them with a clean cloth .
Dive them into peanut oil at 340°F and fry for a few minutes until they turn golden . Drain them on paper towels to remove excess oil .
Now focus on the cod. Remove the skin and any bones, cut into 1.5 oz pieces each . First, coat them in rice flour .
Then in the batter , and fry in peanut oil at 340°F for 3-4 minutes or until they are golden . Fry the potatoes again so they regain their crispiness.
Transfer everything onto paper towels , season with salt . Fish and chips are ready, serve with typical tartar sauce or other sauces of your choice.
It is advisable to consume fish and chips immediately while the fish and fries are still hot and crispy, but if there are leftovers, you can store them in the fridge, in a sealed container, for one day.
Fry both the potatoes and the cod a few pieces at a time, so as not to lower the oil temperature too much. You can serve fish and chips with tartar sauce, ketchup, or even garlic mayonnaise.

