name:
Fried Montanarine with Salami and Stracciatella
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2.4cups(300 g)
Water: 12tbsp(180 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.4oz(10 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Sugar: 1tsp(5 g)
Salami: 4.2oz(120 g)- from Milan
Stracciatella cheese: 1.3cups(300 g)
Tomato purée: 3 ⅛cups(750 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Basil: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Note + 2.5 h of rising

instructions:
Montanarine, also known as fried pizzas , are typical treats from Campanian street food that know how to win you over at first bite. Soft, golden, and slightly crispy on the outside, they are characterized by their round shape with a hollow center: a small cradle perfect to fill with your favorite toppings. In this tasty and irresistible version, we offer fried montanarine with Milano salami and stracciatella, a tantalizing and creamy mix that will drive your guests crazy. The tomato sauce base, essential in the traditional recipe, holds a generous tablespoon of fresh stracciatella, completed with slices of salami, with a sweet and intense flavor, and a few basil leaves for a fragrant touch. Perfect to serve as an appetizer, fried montanarine with salami and stracciatella are also ideal for an aperitif or a buffet!
Also try the variant of Montanarine with burrata and smoked salmon and get inspired by other typical Neapolitan fried treats:
To prepare the fried montanarine with salami and stracciatella, start with the dough: in the bowl of the stand mixer, equipped with a hook, pour the flour , crumbled yeast , and water , then turn on the machine to mix all the ingredients together.
Add the sugar first and then the olive oil . Wait for the oil to be completely absorbed, then add the salt .
When the dough is well mixed and comes away from the sides , transfer it to the work surface and give it a couple of folds as follows: gently stretch the dough and fold it like a wallet (first one side towards the center, then the other on top by pulling it), then cover it with a cloth and let it rest for 15 minutes. Repeat the folds once more and let it rest for another 15 minutes. At this point, form a dough ball .
Grease a large bowl with oil , place the dough ball here, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise in the switched-off oven with the light on for about an hour and a half. In the meantime, take care of the sauce: In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil and the tomato puree .
Salt and cook over low heat for 30 minutes, until the sauce has thickened . Meanwhile, the dough will have risen .
Transfer it to the slightly greased (or floured) work surface, then divide it into 12 dough pieces of about 1.75 ounces . Round the pieces of dough to form balls , then place them on a floured tray, cover with plastic wrap, and let them rise for another 30 minutes in the switched-off oven with the light on .
After this time, take the balls and stretch them on the floured work surface : pull the dough first from the edges and then press it in the center , being careful to give it a rounded shape and leaving the edge thicker .
As you form the montanarine, you can fry them: heat the seed oil to a temperature of 340°F-355°F, then immerse the dough discs and fry for about 5 minutes, pressing the center with a spoon, to maintain the shape during cooking . Once nicely golden, drain the montanarine .
Transfer first to absorbent paper and then to the serving plate . Fill the center of the montanarine with tomato sauce .
Add the stracciatella and slices of salami , then complete with fresh basil leaves. Your fried montanarine with salami and stracciatella are ready to be enjoyed !
We recommend consuming the fried montanarine with salami and stracciatella immediately.
As an alternative to stracciatella, you can use burrata, ricotta, or mozzarella.

