name:
Peeled Tomatoes
ingredients:
San Marzano tomatoes: 6.6lbs(3 kg)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Peeled tomatoes are a classic preserve, similar to tomato puree . Convenient to have in the pantry and decidedly genuine, peeled tomatoes do not require much preparation time and are simple to make; just be a little careful with storage. Peeled tomatoes are used as a condiment in numerous traditional recipes, but they are also good for a simple tomato and basil sauce.
To prepare peeled tomatoes, choose tomatoes that are firm, ripe, and free of bruises. Meanwhile, put a large pot of water on the stove. Wash the tomatoes well under running water and make a cross-cut at the end of each tomato (1-2). When the water starts to simmer, scald the tomatoes for 2-3 minutes; this way, the tomatoes will remain firm .
Remove the tomatoes from the water with a slotted spoon and place them in a colander to drain. Wait a few minutes for them to cool; it is normal for the tomatoes to start to wrinkle . In the meantime, sanitize the jars and lids by boiling them in water, as indicated in the guidelines from the Ministry of Health provided at the bottom of the recipe . At this point, peel the tomatoes, which will have become lukewarm .
When the jars are completely dry, put the peeled tomatoes in the jars , pressing them a bit with a fork. Carefully close the jar , making sure to leave 1 inch of space from the edge, then proceed with boiling, or pasteurization, following the guidelines from the Ministry of Health cited at the bottom of the recipe . This will create a vacuum seal in the jars. Once the jars have cooled, check if the vacuum has formed correctly: if you do NOT hear a "click-clack" when pressing on the lid, it means the vacuum has formed correctly. Your peeled tomatoes are ready!
If the vacuum seal does not form correctly, you can boil the jars in a large pot for about 30 minutes, with the lid facing up and covered with water up to halfway up the jar. Then let them dry and cool, always upside down.
If the peeled tomatoes are perfectly vacuum-sealed, you can store them for up to a year in a cool, dry place away from light.
The home preparation of preserves and jams can present health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the necessary conditions and measures to guarantee the safety and suitability of food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures are able to ensure in order to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to scrupulously follow food safety instructions to reduce risks, but one must always bear in mind that one can never achieve the same food safety as professionally produced preserves and jams. For the correct preparation of home-made preserves, we refer to the Italian Ministry of Health guidelines

