name:
White Parmigiana with Vegetables and Parmesan
ingredients:
Eggplant: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Zucchini: 0.9lb(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The white parmigiana with vegetables and parmesan is a succulent single dish made with zucchini and eggplants covered in a tasty parmesan cream. If you are looking for an alternative to the classic eggplant parmigiana, this is the recipe for you: the vegetables are baked with little oil, making it a lighter option compared to traditional frying. To flavor the vegetables, we prepared a parmesan cream with a strong taste that will make the vegetables even more appetizing. Enjoy the white parmigiana with vegetables and parmesan with meat dishes such as roasts or braised meat.
To make the white parmigiana, start by washing and trimming the eggplants , then slice them thinly lengthwise using a mandoline ; proceed in the same way with the zucchini ,
making thin slices . Arrange the eggplants on the Smart Oven's crisper plate lined with parchment paper , brush them with oil and cook in the Smart Oven microwave using the Slim Fry function, program 9 (the weight of the vegetables should be a maximum of 250 grams). An acoustic signal will indicate when it is time to turn the food for uniform cooking.
Prepare the zucchini in the same way: arrange them on the tray, brush with oil , and cook using the same program used for the eggplants. Once the eggplants are ready, do the same with the zucchini. While the vegetables are cooking, prepare the parmesan cream: heat the milk in a saucepan (without bringing it to a boil), then melt the butter in another saucepan over low heat , add the sifted flour ,
and stir while keeping the heat low , then add the previously heated and slightly warmed milk , mix the mixture with the grated cheese .
Continue cooking until you get a smooth mixture and turn off the heat. Take a 8x8 inch baking dish, spread 2 tablespoons of parmesan cream on the bottom, distribute a layer of eggplants , salt , pepper
and then pour another layer of parmesan cream (16-17), then proceed with a layer of zucchini and continue alternating the ingredients until they are used up,
ending with a layer of parmesan cream . Once finished, sprinkle the surface with grated parmesan . Cook the parmigiana in the Samsung Smart Oven microwave with convection cooking at 350°F for 15 minutes, making sure to activate the automatic preheating function before cooking. For the last 5 minutes of cooking, activate the grill. Once cooked, let your white parmigiana with vegetables and parmesan cool slightly before serving .
You can store your white parmigiana with vegetables and parmesan in the refrigerator for a couple of days covered with plastic wrap. It is possible to freeze the parmigiana after cooking.
As an alternative to eggplants and zucchini, you can also use potatoes, mushrooms, or bell peppers.

