name:
Cheesecake in the jar
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 3.5oz(100 g)
Butter: 4.6tbsp(65 g)
Natural plain yogurt: 1.1cups(250 g)- creamy
Fresh liquid cream: 0.3cup(70 g)
Whole milk: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Powdered sugar: ¼cup(30 g)
Strawberries: 1cup(150 g)- (not very large)
Strawberries: ½cup(100 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(100 g)
Cornstarch: 1.3tbsp(10 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Strawberries: to taste
Mint: to taste
Blueberries: to taste
Raspberries: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Note + the resting time in the refrigerator

instructions:
A fresh and delicious break is what we need when the heat starts to get intense, don't you think? So the solution we thought of is a spoonful of cheesecake in the jar! Exactly, we are not talking about the classic cheesecake prepared in the nice family-sized pan. This time we thought of surprising you with jars in which to create your dessert. To make the cheesecake in the jar more scenic, we added strawberry slices arranged around the jar, this way you will get a beautiful, but above all delicious, decoration that will conquer sight and palate! What are you waiting for to have a snack? Take those jars you have stored in the pantry, today we prepare cheesecake in the jar!
To prepare the cheesecake in the jar, start by soaking the gelatin in cold water . Then continue with the base of dry biscuits: melt the butter. Meanwhile, blend the biscuits and pour the crumbs into a bowl, add the melted butter
and mix to create a rather homogeneous mixture . Then pour the biscuit mixture into the jars and create a firm layer using the back of a teaspoon. Close the jars and place them in the refrigerator .
Meanwhile, scrape the seeds from the vanilla bean and set them aside . Pour the milk into a saucepan and heat without bringing it to a boil . Turn off the heat and add the gelatin after draining off the excess water .
Stir well to dissolve it and let it cool slightly . Meanwhile, whip the cream. In another bowl, pour the cream along with the extracted vanilla seeds and powdered sugar . Turn on the whisk at medium speed
to obtain a soft cream (the cream should not be whipped stiff) . Set aside while in another bowl pour the plain yogurt. Add the now lukewarm milk and mix well .
Then add the semi-whipped cream and mix again but delicately . At this point, the cream is ready. Take the jars out of the fridge and focus on the internal decoration .
Clean the strawberries by removing the stem and cut them into slices about 0.3 inches thick . Arrange them inside the jars vertically, thus lining the interior: gently press the strawberries towards the glass so the cream does not cover them .
Pour the cream until it covers everything , close the jars and put them in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours : the longer they stay, the more the cream will set .
Prepare the coulis. Wash the strawberries and cut them into pieces , pour them into a pan along with the cornstarch, lemon juice, and sugar. Mix well, turn on the stove, and let it cook for about ten minutes on high heat. The necessary time to soften the strawberries, then transfer them to a sieve placed inside a bowl and strain them .
The gelatin is ready, let it cool. Take the jars, open them, and pour the thick compote on top . If you want, you can put the jars back in the refrigerator or consume them immediately . But first, don't forget to garnish with some berries, a strawberry, and a bit of mint. Your cheesecake in the jar is ready !
Store the cheesecake in the jar for 2-3 days in the refrigerator, tightly sealed. Freezing is not recommended.
You can prepare the coulis with only blueberries or raspberries. You can choose to make the base with chocolate by using cocoa dry biscuits.

