name:
Fig and Walnut Plumcake
ingredients:
Figs: 1.67cups(250 g)
Walnut kernels: ½cup(60 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(220 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Sugar: 6 ½tbsp(80 g)
Eggs: 5.8oz(165 g)- (approximately 3)
Baking powder: 2tsp(8 g)
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Figs: 1
Sugar: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The fig season passes so quickly that it's almost a must to take advantage of it to prepare many irresistible desserts! We have taken these juicy sugary fruits and used them to fill cookies , cakes , and even Popsicles with figs and lemon , but we hadn't yet made a fabulous fig and walnut plumcake! Soft and delicious like all the best plumcakes, the fig and walnut plumcake will make your late summer snacks unforgettable and even going back to school will be a real pleasure after such a rich and nutritious breakfast!
If you love rustic desserts, also try our walnut cake or the nua cake with figs !
To prepare the fig and walnut plumcake, first melt the butter in a saucepan. Wash the figs and remove the ends, then coarsely chop them without removing the skin . Pour the eggs into a large bowl and beat them with electric whisks while gradually adding the sugar until you obtain a frothy and homogeneous mixture .
Sift the flour and baking powder into the bowl, then mix with a spatula and also add the melted butter .
Add the figs and walnuts and mix again to combine everything .
At this point, butter and flour a loaf pan of 8x4 inches and pour the obtained mixture inside . Level the surface with the back of a spoon slightly moistened with water and place the fig slices you have previously cut .
Finally, sprinkle with granulated sugar and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 60 minutes. Once cooked, remove your fig and walnut plumcake from the oven and let it cool slightly before removing it from the mold and serving it sliced !
The fig and walnut plumcake can be stored in a paper bag or under a glass dome for about 4 days. If desired, you can freeze the baked plumcake after it has completely cooled.
If you wish, you can flavor the batter with ground cinnamon. Replace the figs with other seasonal fruit as you like!

