name:
Pasta with roasted pepper cream, olives and almonds
ingredients:
Spaghettoni: 11.3oz(320 g)- large
Red peppers: 2
Taggiasca olives: 1.4oz(40 g)- pitted
Almond slices: 1oz(30 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
During the summer months, peppers brighten up the vegetable stalls with their vibrant colors and enhance various recipes with color and flavor… like the pasta with roasted pepper cream, olives, and almonds , a tasty and flavorful vegetarian idea!
Peppers roasted in the oven add a slightly smoky aftertaste to their natural sweetness, which pairs perfectly with the saltiness of Taggiasca olives. The crunchy touch of almonds and the fresh scent of basil complete this first course, with spaghettoni being the ideal pasta shape.
Simple and genuine, the pasta with roasted pepper cream, olives, and almonds will delight you with its enveloping sauce, to enjoy forkful after forkful!
Try these variants of pasta with pepper cream :
To prepare the pasta with roasted pepper cream, olives, and almonds, first place the whole peppers on a baking sheet, coat well with oil , and bake in a static oven at 482°F for about 30 minutes. When they are well roasted, remove from the oven and cover immediately with plastic wrap . Let them cool and meanwhile, put a pot full of water on the stove to cook the pasta.
Once cooled or lukewarm, peel the peppers and remove the seeds, then transfer them to a pitcher . Blend with an immersion blender to get a smooth cream, then adjust the salt .
Mix and set aside. At this point, the water will have come to a boil, so salt it and cook the spaghettoni for 2 minutes less than the time indicated on the package . Meanwhile, in a pan, flavor some oil with 2 cloves of garlic .
After a couple of minutes, remove the garlic and pour in the pepper cream . Drain the spaghettoni directly into the pan with the sauce , add a splash of cooking water, and mix everything together.
Add the olives , pepper, and mix again. Plate and complete with almond flakes and a few basil leaves. Your pasta with roasted pepper cream and almonds is ready to be served !
Pasta with roasted pepper cream, olives, and almonds can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
If you prefer, you can also make the recipe with yellow peppers.
Add a pinch of chili pepper for a spicy note!

