name:
Sardinian Gnocchetti with Bell Pepper Cream, Cherry Tomatoes and Shrimps
ingredients:
Gnocchetti Sardi pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Bell peppers: 3- horn-shaped
Datterino tomatoes: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Red onions: 2
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Green Peperoncino: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Sardinian gnocchetti with bell pepper cream, cherry tomatoes and shrimps are a land and sea first course with a bold and captivating flavor! A pasta recipe different from the usual that combines the sweetness of shellfish with the genuine taste of seasonal vegetables, which turn into a robust and velvety sauce. The bell pepper and roasted onion cream is enlivened by the spicy touch of chili pepper and delights the palate with a pleasant smoky note. Perfect for a summer menu different from the usual, the Sardinian gnocchetti with bell pepper cream, cherry tomatoes and shrimps are the perfect choice to impress your hungriest guests!
Also try these tasty recipes with Sardinian gnocchetti:
To prepare Sardinian gnocchetti with bell pepper cream, cherry tomatoes and shrimps, first clean the bell peppers: cut them in half lengthwise and remove seeds and inner filaments, then chop them into large pieces . Peel the onions and roughly chop them as well .
Transfer the bell peppers and onions to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, then add sprigs of thyme and season with oil and salt . Mix well with your hands to distribute the seasoning evenly and bake in a static oven at 428°F for about 20-25 minutes.
Meanwhile, take care of cleaning the shrimps: remove the head and shell , then cut along the back and gently remove the intestine . Cut the flesh into chunks and set aside. Put a pot of water on the stove to cook the pasta.
When the vegetables are well roasted , remove from the oven and transfer to a jug, then add a couple of ladlefuls of boiling water and chili powder to taste .
Blend with an immersion mixer , then strain the resulting mixture to obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream . Adjust with salt if necessary, and set aside.
Now cut the cherry tomatoes in half . In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil with a garlic clove and fresh chili pepper halved and seeded . Add the cherry tomatoes and cook over high heat for 3-4 minutes.
Add the shrimps and sauté everything for another 3 minutes or so. When the shrimps are cooked, turn off the heat and remove both the garlic and the chili pepper. Meanwhile, the water will have come to a boil, so salt it and cook the Sardinian gnocchetti for a couple of minutes less than the time indicated on the package .
While the pasta is cooking, add the bell pepper cream to the pan with the cherry tomatoes and shrimps, then pour in a ladleful of pasta cooking water . Drain the gnocchetti into the pan and toss everything to mix them with the sauce .
Plate and garnish with fresh thyme and rosemary . Your Sardinian gnocchetti with bell pepper cream, cherry tomatoes and shrimps are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the Sardinian gnocchetti with bell pepper cream, cherry tomatoes and shrimps immediately; if necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator for 1-2 days at most.
The roasted bell pepper cream can be frozen.
You can substitute horn-shaped peppers with other types of peppers, even yellow ones.
If you prefer, you can enrich the bell pepper cream with a touch of tomato paste!
Instead of thyme and rosemary, you can use mint and basil.

