name:
Spaghetti with Crispy Peppers and Breadcrumbs
ingredients:
Whole wheat Spaghetti pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)- large
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to be grated)
Crushed red pepper: 16 ¼tsp(50 g)
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(50 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Spaghetti with crispy peppers , breadcrumbs, and pecorino cheese is a simple but surprisingly flavorful first course, blending rustic tradition and contemporary creativity. The undisputed stars are the crispy peppers, a gem of Lucanian cuisine: quickly fried, they become crunchy and release their unique and intense taste. The toasted breadcrumbs flavored with garlic add texture and an irresistible crunch. We've chosen to use whole wheat spaghetti, which can embrace the sauce and enhance the flavors. A must is the creaminess added by grated pecorino cheese, which perfectly balances the sweetness of the peppers and the simplicity of the breadcrumbs. Spaghetti with crispy peppers and breadcrumbs is a Mediterranean-scented dish, telling stories of past kitchens with a modern twist, perfect for those who love good food and authentic flavors. Here are more recipes featuring crispy peppers you shouldn't miss:
To prepare the spaghetti with crispy peppers and breadcrumbs, first place a pot filled with salted water on the stove for cooking the pasta. Meanwhile, finely chop the parsley and set it aside. In a pan, pour the breadcrumbs, a clove of garlic in its skin , and a drizzle of oil .
Add a pinch of black pepper and salt . Mix well and toast over medium heat.
After 10 minutes, it will be nicely golden , then remove from heat, discard the garlic, and set aside. In a small pot, heat the oil until it reaches a temperature of 300°F. As soon as it reaches the right temperature, immerse 1-2 peppers at a time and fry them for a few seconds. Immediately drain them with tongs, taking care not to let them turn black .
As you go, place the fried crispy peppers on a tray with paper towels to remove excess oil . At this point, the water will have come to a boil, so cook the whole wheat spaghetti . Meanwhile, in a pan, pour a drizzle of oil and a crushed garlic clove .
Allow the flavors to blend, then add a ladle of the pasta cooking water . Drain the spaghetti al dente (keeping aside a little cooking water) and transfer them to the pan , adding a bit more of the reserved cooking water . Briefly toss the pasta to combine it with the sauce.
With the heat off, add pecorino cheese , parsley , and a grind of black pepper .
Mix to thoroughly coat the pasta . Plate the spaghetti and pour a little of their sauce in the center .
Finish with toasted breadcrumbs and the crispy peppers crumbled by hand . Serve your spaghetti with crispy peppers and breadcrumbs immediately !
Spaghetti with crispy peppers and breadcrumbs can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day, in an airtight container.
Instead of pecorino cheese, you can use ricotta mixed with cooking water. You will get creamy and delicate spaghetti!

