name:
Paccheri with grilled pepper cream and ricotta
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Red peppers: 6- horn
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
White onions: 1
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Paccheri with grilled pepper cream and ricotta is a colorful and characterful vegetarian first course. The pasta is enveloped in a robust sauce made with cherry tomatoes and grilled peppers, giving it a smoky note... a rustic touch that feels like home. The Homemade Ricotta adds even more flavor: fresh, delicate, slightly seasoned, and shaped into quenelles, it creates a truly pleasant contrast in temperatures and textures. Easy to prepare, paccheri with grilled pepper cream and ricotta are as tasty as they are beautifully presented, making them suitable for both everyday dinners and slightly more special occasions!
Also discover these variations of pasta with pepper cream :
To prepare paccheri with grilled pepper cream and ricotta, start by cleaning the peppers: remove the stem, seeds, and internal filaments , then cut them into pieces . Grill them on both sides until they become tender and the skin is well charred ; it will take about 3 minutes per side. Set aside.
Cut the cherry tomatoes in half and finely slice the onion . In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil, add the onions , and sauté over medium heat for about 2 minutes or until the onions become translucent.
Add the cherry tomatoes and season with salt and pepper , then pour in the water .
Add some basil leaves for fragrance , cover with a lid , and cook over medium heat for about 20 minutes, stirring occasionally .
Transfer both the tomatoes and peppers into a container and blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous sauce . Set aside.
In a bowl, place the ricotta, then season with a drizzle of oil , salt, and pepper . Mix well to combine the ingredients. Now pour the pepper cream into the same pan where you cooked the tomatoes and keep it warm .
Bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the paccheri until al dente , then drain them directly into the pan . Briefly toss everything to combine the pasta with the sauce .
Plate the paccheri . Using 2 tablespoons, form quenelles of ricotta and place them on the pasta .
Finish with a drizzle of raw oil and some fresh basil leaves . Your paccheri with grilled pepper cream and ricotta are ready to be served !
It's recommended to consume paccheri with grilled pepper cream and ricotta as soon as they're ready; if necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator for one day, in an airtight container.
The pepper cream can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1-2 days, in a jar with a tight seal.
Instead of horn peppers, you can use other varieties of peppers.
If you love spiciness, you can flavor the pepper cream with a fresh chili pepper or a pinch of smoked paprika.
As an alternative to cow's milk ricotta, you can use sheep's milk ricotta for a more savory note, or replace it with stracciatella or fresh goat cheese!

