name:
Lasagne without Béchamel
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 12- fresh sheets
Mozzarella cheese: 9oz(250 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1cup(100 g)- to grate
Tomato purée: 2.9cups(700 g)
Ground beef: 0.66lb(300 g)
Ground pork: 7oz(200 g)
Yellow onions: ⅓cup(50 g)
Carrots: ½cup(50 g)
Celery: ½cup(50 g)
Red wine: 2oz(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the lasagna without béchamel, first prepare the ragù: clean and finely chop the celery, carrot, and onion . Heat a splash of oil in a saucepan, then add the ground beef and pork and brown over high heat until the liquid has evaporated .
At this point, reduce the heat and add the chopped vegetables . Let the soffritto soften for a few minutes, then raise the heat again and deglaze with the red wine . Once the alcohol has completely evaporated, add the tomato puree .
Add a little water (just enough to rinse the pitcher) , salt and cook over low heat for 45 minutes ; at the end of cooking, you should have a fairly liquid ragù. Meanwhile, cut the mozzarella into cubes .
After the ragù cooking time has elapsed, you can assemble your lasagna: take a 8x12 inch baking dish and spread a layer of ragù on the bottom , then lay 3 lasagna sheets and cover with the ragù .
Distribute some mozzarella cubes and grated Parmigiano Reggiano PDO , then form another layer of lasagna and continue alternating the ingredients in this order until you have 4 layers in total.
Finish with a generous layer of ragù , mozzarella, and grated cheese . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 20 minutes, then turn on the grill and continue cooking for another 10 minutes. Remove from the oven and let it rest a few minutes before serving your lasagna without béchamel !
Lasagna without béchamel can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
It is possible to freeze them.
You can replace the mozzarella with another melting cheese of your choice, even smoked if you prefer!

