name:
Ricotta omelette
ingredients:
Eggs: 4
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to grate)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 2 ¾tsp(8 g)
Chives: to taste
Mint: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Have you ever thought about using Homemade Ricotta to make an omelet ? The result will surprise you... just like our delicious ricotta omelet! A baked omelet that is particularly thick and soft, enriched with cubes of melted cheese and scented with fresh aromatic herbs. A nutritious and very easy-to-make recipe, which is always a plus! You can accompany the ricotta omelet with a simple side salad for a family dinner or cut it into small squares and serve it for a buffet or aperitif with friends. Moreover, you can personalize it by varying the herbs or the type of cheese... let yourself be inspired by its goodness!
Also try these baked omelet recipes:
To prepare the ricotta omelet, first finely chop the chives and mint , then cut the provolone into cubes .
Crack the eggs into a large bowl and beat them with an electric whisk . When you have obtained a light and frothy mixture, add the ricotta , salt, and pepper .
Also add the chopped aromatic herbs and the grated Parmesan cheese , then mix well with a whisk .
Finally, incorporate the cubed provolone , instant yeast , and mix again to combine everything .
Pour the mixture into an 18-20 cm (7-8 inch) diameter pan lined with parchment paper and level the surface . Bake in a preheated static oven at 170°F (338°F) for about 35 minutes. Once cooked and golden, remove the ricotta omelet from the oven and let it cool in the mold before removing it and serving!
The ricotta omelet can be stored in the refrigerator for one day, in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can flavor the ricotta omelet with herbs of your choice.
If you prefer, you can omit the provolone.

