name:
Fried Anchovies
ingredients:
Anchovies: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (already cleaned and headless)
Type 00 flour: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste- (for frying)
Greek yogurt: 0.6cup(150 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Lemon juice: 1spoonful
Dill: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Arugula: 5cups(100 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Cucumbers: 1
Taggiasca olives: 4tbsp(50 g)- pitted
Lemon juice: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Fried anchovies are a timeless seafood appetizer, perfect for starting a family lunch or a dinner with friends. With just a few ingredients and a quick and easy preparation, you can serve up an irresistible dish: crunchy on the outside, soft, and flavorful inside. Simply lightly coat them in flour and fry for a few minutes to get golden and fragrant anchovies to be enjoyed hot with a pinch of salt. We suggest accompanying fried anchovies with a fresh yogurt sauce and a light salad for a contrast of flavors that will win everyone over. An easy and tasty recipe that tastes like home, sea, and tradition!
Discover here other tasty ways to cook anchovies:
To prepare the fried anchovies, start with the fresh salad: peel the cucumber and cut it into cubes . Wash and halve the cherry tomatoes .
In a bowl, combine the arugula , cucumbers , cherry tomatoes, and pitted Taggiasca olives .
Dress the salad with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil, lemon juice , salt, and pepper to taste. Gently mix to blend the flavors and keep it chilled . Now, prepare the yogurt sauce: peel and chop the garlic clove .
Chop the dill as well . In a bowl, pour the Greek yogurt, chopped garlic, dill, and season with lemon juice .
Season to taste with oil , salt , and pepper. Stir to thoroughly combine all the ingredients .
Keep the sauce chilled as well and proceed with frying the anchovies: ensure they are well cleaned and dry. Pour the flour into a bowl and coat the anchovies, shaking off the excess . Heat the seed oil to a temperature of about 356°F and fry a few anchovies at a time for about 3-4 minutes.
When the anchovies are crispy and golden , drain them on a plate lined with paper towels and add a pinch of salt. Serve your fried anchovies with the fresh salad and yogurt sauce !
We recommend consuming the fried anchovies immediately.
We used fresh cleaned, gutted, and headless anchovies, but if you bought whole anchovies, you can follow our guide how to clean anchovies .
For a lighter variant, try air fryer anchovies , while for a richer variant, taste the Marinated Fried Anchovies !

