name:
Cheese Knödel
ingredients:
Stale bread: 3cups(200 g)
Puzzone cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- from Moena
Trentingrana cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)- to grate
Leeks: 1.8oz(50 g)- (already cleaned)
Eggs: 2
Milk: 0.8cup(200 g)- approximately
Chives: to taste
Butter: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 0.5lb(200 g)
Trentingrana cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Cheese dumplings are a rich and hearty main course that best represents the flavors of Trentino-Alto Adige cuisine. The absolute protagonist of this delicious variant of typical stale bread dumplings is naturally the cheese: the Puzzone di Moena, strong and aromatic, and the Trentingrana DOP, more delicate with a herbaceous hint. The simple brown butter sauce and the pungent note of chives enhance the characteristics of the dumplings , enveloping them with their intense taste and aroma. They are perfect to serve on cold days for a family lunch or a dinner with friends to spoil them with a very tasty and genuine main course. If you love traditional dishes, those born not to waste anything but that become small masterpieces, then cheese dumplings are what you need!
If you are looking for other dumpling recipes, don't miss:
To prepare cheese dumplings, first finely chop the leek and set aside. Cut the Puzzone di Moena, first into slices and then into cubes of about 1/2 inch . Also cut the stale bread into cubes of the same size as the cheese.
In a pot, melt the butter, add the leek , and stew over medium heat for 10 minutes. Then season with salt and set aside. In a large bowl, place the stale bread and the Puzzone di Moena .
Add finely chopped chives , grated Trentingrana , and mix with your hands, then add the leek .
Mix the ingredients together again . In another bowl, crack the eggs, add the Trentingrana , and season with salt and pepper .
Pour about half of the milk , then mix with a whisk ; you should obtain a homogeneous mixture. Add the obtained mixture to the bowl with the bread .
Mix well with your hands . If necessary, you can add the rest of the milk ; you should get a fairly wet dough that holds its shape .
With moistened hands, shape the dumplings, which should have a diameter of about 2 inches ; with these quantities, you will get about 12. Cook them in boiling salted water for about 10 minutes . It is important that the water does not boil too violently because it could break the dumplings. Meanwhile, melt the butter in a pan .
Heat over low heat until it turns a hazelnut color . Turn off the heat and drain the dumplings into the pan , then drizzle them with the brown butter .
Plate and sprinkle with Trentingrana , then drizzle the dumplings with brown butter and finish with some chives. Your cheese dumplings are ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the cheese dumplings as soon as they are ready. If there are leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to 2 days.
You can freeze them for about a week.
First, try immersing just one dumpling in boiling water: if it breaks, you can add a few tablespoons of flour to the mixture.
You can cook the dumplings in vegetable broth or meat broth to make them even more flavorful.
Instead of Puzzone di Moena, you can use Fontina or a good aged Montasio.

