name:
Linguine en papillote with scallops
ingredients:
Scallops: 10.6oz(300 g)- flesh
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Saffron: 0tsp(0.4 g)- powdered
Cherry tomatoes: 1cup(150 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Cornstarch: 1spoonful
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste- minced

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Discover a refined and flavorful seafood first course: linguine en papillote with scallops, a gourmet recipe that combines tradition and creativity. The en papillote cooking enhances the aroma of seafood and keeps flavors and aromas intact, while the scallops, delicate and exquisite, give elegance and softness to the dish. Perfect for a special dinner or a summer lunch, linguine en papillote is a tasty and scenic choice.
This recipe was cooked for us by chef Michele Simplicio along with Michele Mastrorilli, owner of Gola Bistrot, an elegant and eclectic restaurant in Bari, in the Poggiofranco district. Here, the focus on social issues (with the project "mani in pasta" to train young people with autism) meets the passion for gastronomic excellence, with a particular taste for Apulian traditional cuisine renewed by international and contemporary influences.
Linguine en papillote with scallops are a true modern classic, and with the secrets of Gola Bistrot, you too can bring a restaurant-quality dish to your table! Discover other simple and tasty seafood recipes en papillote:
To prepare the linguine en papillote with scallops, start by handling the scallops. Set aside 4 whole scallops for the papillote, and clean the others: gently detach them from their half shell and then remove the scallop from the shell . Finally, cut them into chunks .
Next, attend to the cherry tomatoes; wash them and cut them into quarters . In a large pan, heat a drizzle of oil and add the crushed garlic . Let it infuse and then add the chopped cherry tomatoes .
Salt and add some ground white pepper . Allow to infuse for a couple of minutes and add the scallops .
Extend with a bit of water and add powdered saffron , then continue cooking for another 3 minutes. Remove the scallops using tongs and set them aside .
To thicken the cooking base and make it creamier, add a tablespoon of cornstarch and dissolve it by stirring with a whisk . Add the scallops again and mix well .
Cook the linguine in plenty of boiling salted water and drain them al dente directly in the pan . Add plenty of parsley and toss briefly , adding cooking water if needed.
You can now compose your papillotes: we used "carta fata", a special film for oven cooking. Alternatively, you can use regular parchment paper. Place the sheet inside a bowl to make the composition easier, then distribute the linguine , add some sauce and a whole raw scallop that you kept aside .
Close the papillote with twine and repeat to form all 4. Arrange them on a baking sheet and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 2 minutes . Serve your papillotes opening them directly on the plate !
Linguine en papillote with scallops are best enjoyed immediately, but they can be stored in the fridge for 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you wish to enrich the dish with a green note, you can add zucchini slices or asparagus tips to the tomato sauce: both vegetables will pair wonderfully with the scallops!

