name:
Pasta with cherry tomato sauce and stracciatella
ingredients:
Bucatini pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 5cups(800 g)
Stracciatella cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Basil: to taste
Water: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If spaghetti with tomato is your passion, this pasta with cherry tomato sauce and stracciatella is an absolute must-try! A first course that combines flavors and aromas meant to be together, representing the pinnacle of Mediterranean cuisine. Cherry tomatoes, stracciatella, and basil transform into a fresh and creamy dressing with just a few moves, perfectly enveloping the bucatini. Every forkful will have the taste of summer, and the final mop-up with bread will be a well-deserved grand finale! What are you waiting for? The pasta with cherry tomato sauce and stracciatella is the simple and genuine recipe you were looking for!
Don't miss these variations:
To prepare the pasta with cherry tomato sauce and stracciatella, start by cutting the cherry tomatoes in half . In a large pan, pour the oil and flavor it with the crushed, unpeeled garlic cloves .
After 3 minutes, add the cherry tomatoes , fragrance with the basil leaves , and season with salt .
Add a dash of black pepper and cover with a lid . Cook for about 20 minutes over medium-low heat .
When the cherry tomatoes are cooked and softened , transfer them to a pitcher and blend with an immersion blender .
Pass the obtained cream through a fine mesh strainer to remove the tomato skins and seeds . Set aside the cherry tomato cream in the pan . In another pitcher, season half of the stracciatella with salt and pepper ,
Pour the olive oil and blend until you achieve a smooth and silky consistency .
Cook the bucatini in boiling salted water . When they are al dente, drain them into the pan with the sauce . Stir and toss the pasta for a minute .
Serve your first course by pouring the stracciatella cream on the bottom , then place a generous nest of bucatini and top with a spoonful of sauce .
Garnish with the remaining stracciatella and a few fresh basil leaves . Your pasta with cherry tomato sauce and stracciatella is ready to be served !
Pasta with cherry tomato sauce and stracciatella can be stored for one day in the refrigerator, in an airtight container.
If you wish, you can enrich the dish with toasted breadcrumbs in the pan along with some chopped olives!

