name:
Summer Panzanella with Anchovies
ingredients:
Stale bread: 12.3oz(350 g)- Tuscan
Anchovies: 8fillets- marinades, from the Cantabrian Sea
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
Yellow peppers: 5.25oz(150 g)
Celery: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Red onions: 1
Taggiasca olives: 2.1oz(60 g)- pitted
Water: 1glass(250 g)
White wine vinegar: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Mint: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Perfect to enjoy on the hottest days, the summer panzanella with anchovies is an even more flavorful variation of the classic Tuscan recipe! In this case too, the stale bread is soaked in water and vinegar, then enriched with various crunchy and colorful vegetables, namely bell peppers, celery, cherry tomatoes, and red onion. The original touch, however, is given by the final addition of anchovies marinated with citrus oil, which gives the panzanella a tasty touch and a pleasant citrusy note. Fresh and easy to prepare, the summer panzanella with anchovies is a tasty appetizer that requires no cooking, ideal to savor whenever you wish!
Don't miss other variations of the typical Tuscan panzanella :
To prepare the summer panzanella with anchovies, first cut the stale bread into slices about 0.5 inches thick, then cut them into cubes . Transfer the bread cubes to a bowl, then pour in the water and vinegar . Let soak until the bread has absorbed all the liquid.
Meanwhile, prepare the vegetables: peel the bell pepper , then cut it into strips and halve them .
Peel the celery and cut it into 0.5-inch pieces . Clean and slice the onion into julienne . Finally, cut the cherry tomatoes into quarters and the olives in half.
Take the bowl with the bread and check that it has absorbed the liquid, then add the celery , the onion , and the tomatoes .
Add the peppers , the olives , and mint torn by hand .
Season with oil and salt , then mix everything well .
You're ready to plate : transfer the panzanella to serving plates and finish with 2 anchovy fillets marinated with citrus oil . Your summer panzanella with anchovies is ready to be served !
The summer panzanella with anchovies can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
We recommend peeling the celery and bell peppers for a softer texture, but you can skip this step if you prefer.
You can enrich the summer panzanella with cucumbers or replace the mint with basil.

