name:
Strawberry Chantilly Cup
ingredients:
Strawberries: 2cups(300 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)- cold
Powdered sugar: 3.3tbsp(25 g)
Vanilla extract: to taste
Mint: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Strawberries: 3 ½cups(500 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Almond flour: 1cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)- cold

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Imagine craving something sweet, light, that tastes like spring. Now, imagine sinking your spoon into a cup of strawberry chantilly, with a juicy fruit sauce and a deliciously crunchy almond crumble base. Is your mouth watering? Then our mission is accomplished! With this spoon dessert, we wanted to win your hearts.
The chantilly is a classic pastry preparation made with whipped cream , powdered sugar, and vanilla. Thanks to the addition of fresh strawberry How to prepare coulis , its sweet and delicate flavor is enriched with tangy and intense notes of caramelized fruit, for a timeless combination loved by young and old alike. But the real special touch of the strawberry chantilly cup is the crumble, the crunchy and exquisitely buttery element that forms the base of the soft cream... what are you still waiting for?
If you love the combination of cream and strawberries, don't miss these desserts:
To prepare the strawberry chantilly cup, start with the coulis: wash the strawberries, remove the stems , and then cut them into chunks . Transfer the strawberries to a pot and add the sugar .
Add the water , stir , and turn on the heat to medium-high . Cook for about 15 minutes: the strawberries should break down and thicken. Once done, blend with an immersion blender .
Transfer the coulis to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let it cool in the fridge . In the meantime, focus on the crumble: in a bowl, combine almond flour, all-purpose flour , and sugar .
Also add the cold butter cubes from the fridge and knead all the ingredients with your hands . Crumble the mixture directly onto a baking tray lined with parchment paper .
Make sure to space the pieces out well, then bake at 350°F in static mode for about 30 minutes . Once baked, let the crumble cool. Meanwhile, cut the remaining strawberries in half (or into quarters if very large) and season with a little oil . Set them aside and focus on the chantilly: in a bowl, pour the cream and powdered sugar .
Add the vanilla extract and start whipping with electric beaters . When you achieve a semi-whipped consistency, add 3 tablespoons of the now-cold strawberry coulis .
Briefly whip again by hand to blend the mixture evenly . You are ready to assemble your cups: put the cooled crumble at the base .
Then add the strawberry chantilly and create a well in the center with the moistened back of a spoon , then fill it with more coulis
Garnish with fresh strawberries and a few more drops of coulis, then finish with fresh mint leaves . Your strawberry chantilly cup is ready to be enjoyed !
The strawberry chantilly cup should preferably be consumed right after assembly to maintain the correct consistency of all the elements; if necessary, you can keep it in the refrigerator for a few hours.
The crumble can be stored at room temperature in an airtight container for a week.
The chantilly and coulis can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days; remember to whip the cream again before serving.
You can also make this delicious spoon dessert with a mixed berry flavor using blueberries, blackberries, and raspberries!
For a lighter version, try replacing the whipped cream with plain Greek yogurt.

