name:
Pasta with octopus ragù and almonds
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Octopus: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (already cleaned)
Tomato purée: 3 ½cups(800 g)
Black olives: ¼cup(40 g)
Salted capers: 2tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 3cloves
Red wine: ½glass
Thyme: to taste
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Almond slices: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
When we talk about ragù , we immediately think of the classic slow-cooked meat sauce. This time, however, we present an unusual seafood variant, equally tasty: pasta with octopus ragù and almonds! A main course with a rich sauce that gently simmers on the stove and evokes the flavors of puttanesca thanks to the addition of olives and capers. Toasted almonds and the scent of basil give the dish an irresistible Mediterranean touch! We chose spaghetti to make every bite a concentration of goodness... and what pasta shape will you use for your pasta with octopus ragù and almonds?
Try these other main courses with octopus:
To prepare the pasta with octopus ragù and almonds, first prepare the octopus: separate the head from the body , then divide the tentacles and cut everything into pieces .
In a saucepan, flavor the oil with the garlic cloves in their skins and thyme , then add the octopus and brown for a couple of minutes. When it starts to release its water, deglaze with wine , making sure to let the alcohol evaporate well.
At this point, pour in the tomato sauce and mix well , then add the olives .
Add the desalinated capers and simmer with the lid on for an hour and a half, on a very low flame . At the end of cooking, scent with basil .
When the ragù is almost ready, bring a pot of unsalted water to a boil to cook the spaghetti; it is not necessary to salt because the sauce will be very flavorful thanks to the water released by the octopus . Meanwhile, spread the almonds on a baking sheet and toast them in a static oven, being careful not to burn them: 2-3 minutes at 340°F will suffice.
Drain the spaghetti and quickly toss them with the sauce . Plate and garnish with the toasted almonds . Your pasta with octopus ragù and almonds is ready to be served !
The pasta with octopus ragù and almonds can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day.
If you prefer, you can opt for fresh pasta, such as guitar string spaghetti or strozzapreti !

