name:
Octopus and Stewed Beans
ingredients:
Octopus: 2lbs(900 g)- (already cleaned)
Precooked Cannellini beans: 2cups(500 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)- (Reserve Over 20 months) the rind
Yellow onions: 1
Tomato paste: 3tbsp(40 g)
White wine: 0.8cup(200 g)- dry
Rosemary: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Stewed octopus has always been one of the greatest guarantees in the kitchen, just mentioning it instantly whets the appetite. However, for today's recipe, we thought of giving it an extra touch of flavor and texture. Here is the recipe for octopus and stewed beans. The presence of cannellini beans enriches the dish thanks to their delicate flavor that perfectly balances that of the octopus. But the true touch of class, directly from our grandmothers' recipe books, is the Grana Padano DOP crust. This was always used to elevate humble dishes, like pasta and potatoes . So why not add a few pieces to this tasty second course today? Octopus and stewed beans was a true discovery for us, and we're ready to bet it will be the same for you!
Come discover another stewed dish prepared with Stewed Green Beans Country-Style ; again, mopping up the sauce is a must!
To prepare the octopus and stewed beans, start with the mollusk, already eviscerated and cleaned. Immerse it in plenty of salted water for about 30 minutes . If you prefer, you can also dip the tentacles 2-3 times before fully submerging the octopus to make them curl better. After the indicated time, drain it but don't discard the water, and cut it into pieces , taking care to reduce the larger ones into smaller pieces .
Peel and thinly slice the onion , then cut the well-cleaned Grana Padano DOP crust into strips about an inch wide and finally into cubes .
Move to the stove and add the onion to a splash of oil in a large pot . Let it sauté and infuse with rosemary sprigs . Then add the chopped Grana Padano DOP crust pieces ,
the octopus , and the tomato paste . Stir everything well and deglaze with the white wine .
Let the alcohol evaporate (a few moments), then you can add the beans and season with salt and pepper to taste . Add a bit of the octopus cooking water to continue cooking .
Cover with the lid and let it simmer gently for about 35 minutes . Remember to stir occasionally and ensure the base hasn't become too dry; if so, just add a bit of the octopus cooking water . At the end of cooking, plate your octopus and stewed beans, and serve with a drizzle of raw oil and a nice grind of pepper .
Octopus and stewed beans can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, ensuring it is well sealed.
To prevent the texture from deteriorating, it's best to avoid freezing.
Accompany your octopus and stewed beans with bruschetta slices: choose whether to cook them in a pan, flavoring with a bit of oil and rosemary, or in the oven. In this case, it's better to add a sprinkle of grated Grana Padano DOP on top for a delicious gratin.

