name:
Mousse with figs and nuts
ingredients:
Salted caramel yogurt: ½cup(150 g)- hay milk (cold)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(180 g)- cold
Rum: 1oz(30 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 1tsp(5 g)
Figs: 1.67cups(250 g)
Whole peeled hazelnuts: ⅛cup(20 g)
Pecans: 0.7oz(20 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Sugar: 5tsp(20 g)
Marjoram: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 2
Note + 30 min. of resting the mousse in the fridge

instructions:
The mousse with figs and nuts is a delicious spoon dessert that will surprise you with its ease of preparation! Served in cute single-serving glasses, it is also ideal for special occasions and will win over your guests with its unique taste: to make the mousse, in fact, we used salted caramel yogurt that pleasantly balances the sweetness of the caramelized figs. The crunchy mix of hazelnuts and pecans, on the other hand, creates an inviting contrast of textures. For those who desire a tasty and genuine end to a meal, the mousse with figs and nuts is simply perfect!
To make the fig and nut mousse, first soak the gelatin sheets in cold water . Pour the rum into a saucepan and heat it gently , then add the well-wrung gelatin sheets .
Stir with a teaspoon to completely dissolve the gelatin and let it cool. Meanwhile, semi-whip the cream with electric beaters . Pour the caramel yogurt into a bowl, then add the cooled rum with the gelatin .
Mix to combine the mixture , then add the semi-whipped cream and incorporate it with a hand whisk .
Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it set in the refrigerator for 30 minutes . Meanwhile, cut the figs into 4 wedges, without peeling them . Melt the butter in a non-stick pan .
Place the figs in the pan , then add the sugar and brown over medium-high heat for a few minutes, so they get some color .
Finally, coarsely chop the pecans and hazelnuts , then briefly toast them in a pan . You are ready to assemble the dessert: fill 2 glasses with a capacity of 7 oz with the mousse that you have transferred into a pastry bag with an 8 mm star nozzle .
Garnish the glasses with the figs and nuts , then complete with marjoram leaves. Your mousse with figs and nuts is ready to be served !
The mousse with figs and nuts can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
For a version suitable for children, you can omit the rum and dissolve the gelatin in a small portion of cream taken from the total amount.
You can vary the nuts to your liking by adding almonds or walnut kernels.
Alternatively, you can use blackberries or pears instead of figs, for example!

