name:
Fig Cookies
ingredients:
Butter: ½cup(100 g)- soft
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Eggs: 1.8oz(50 g)- (about 1)
Powdered sugar: ⅓cup(50 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Baking powder: ¾tsp(3 g)
Lemon peel: ½
Figs: 13.4oz(380 g)
Brown sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Digestive biscuits: ½cup(50 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 21 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus 2 hours of resting

instructions:
To welcome the summer season in style, we have prepared delicious fig cookies. These small fragrant treasures are made with a soft shortcrust , yet still crunchy on the surface, and they hold a filling with the unmistakable sweet taste that only this fruit can offer. All you need to do is make a kind of jam, cooked in just a few minutes and thickened with the addition of crumbled dry cookies! Prepare these fig cookies yourself and enjoy them fresh from the oven for a fantastic snack!
To prepare the fig cookies, the first step is to make the shortcrust pastry. Pour into the bowl of a stand mixer the softened butter cut into cubes , a pinch of salt , and the zest of half a lemon . Work with the flat beater for a few moments,
then, with the stand mixer still running, add the powdered sugar . Wait about 1 minute until it's completely absorbed and then add the sifted flour . Add the baking powder
and finally the beaten egg . Mix everything until you get a homogeneous dough . Then transfer the dough, using a spatula, onto a sheet of plastic wrap that you have placed on the work surface .
Shape it into a loaf, wrap it completely so that no parts are uncovered, and place it in the refrigerator to firm up for at least 2 hours . Meanwhile, prepare the fig filling. First, peel them , transfer them to a bowl, and mash them with a fork . You should obtain 260 grams.
Add the brown sugar , the zest of half a lemon , and mix the ingredients with the fork to combine all the ingredients .
Pour the obtained mixture into a pan and let it cook for about ten minutes . Meanwhile, crumble the cookies by hand .
After 10 minutes of cooking, add the cookies to the fig mixture and stir until they are completely combined . Then transfer everything into a bowl and let it cool first at room temperature
and then in the refrigerator, covering with plastic wrap only in this last phase . After the shortcrust has rested, transfer it to a lightly floured work surface and roll it out to obtain a thickness of about 1/8 inch .
You should obtain a square of 12x12 inches . Then cut 3 strips that are 4 inches wide and 12 inches long . Take 1/3 of the mixture and place it on the first strip
spreading it well, leaving a few inches from the edge . Fold the strip towards the center from both sides to form a filled loaf . Repeat the same operation for the other two strips of dough.
Using a spatula, very gently transfer the loaves onto a tray lined with parchment paper . Place in the freezer for 30 minutes. Then take them out and cut them into cubes about 1 1/2 inches . Transfer onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, well spaced apart
and bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F on the middle shelf for 20 minutes. When they are golden, remove the cookies from the oven , and wait a few minutes before transferring them to a rack. Let them cool completely and dust with powdered sugar before serving them .
Fig cookies can be frozen already formed. Simply bake them while still frozen, adjusting the cooking times. Once baked, they can be stored for a maximum of 24 hours, as the moisture from the figs will tend to soften them.
Prepare the pastry and filling a day in advance. This way, it will be easier to make the cookies.
Instead of digestive cookies used in the filling, it is possible to use hazelnut or almond flour.

