name:
Fig Crostini
ingredients:
Rye bread: 2slices
Figs: 6.7oz(190 g)- (2 figs)
Goatmilk ricotta cheese: 0.375cup(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.7tbsp(25 g)
Walnut kernels: 1 ½tbsp(10 g)
Wild fennel: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Cheese lovers already know how good “cheese with pears” is, but perhaps not everyone knows another tasty combination like the one with figs. After the stuffed figs , accompanied by ham and robiola cheese, and the fig sandwich , filled with speck and squacquerone cheese, we ventured into a delicious and quick appetizer: fig crostini, a tasty alternative to the classic tomato bruschetta , perfect for enriching summer buffets. A first crunchy layer of toasted bread serves as the base for a velvety ricotta cream, topped with fig slices and chopped walnuts. An enticing mix of flavors and textures that will spark your curiosity and your appetite!
To make the fig crostini, first cut the slices of bread in half and toast them on a very hot grill . Separately, chop the walnuts .
Wash and dry the figs, cut off the top part and divide each half into 6 wedges : you will thus obtain 12 fig slices .
Now prepare the cream: in the bowl of a mixer, add the ricotta , the cream and season with pepper and salt. Blend everything to obtain a soft and homogeneous cream .
Transfer the cream into a piping bag with no nozzle and squeeze it onto the toasted crostini , then place 3 fig slices on each crostino
arranging them on top of the cream . Flavor to taste with fennel and garnish with the chopped walnuts .
Finish with a pinch of pepper , a drizzle of olive oil , and serve your fig crostini immediately .
We recommend consuming the fig crostini immediately, otherwise, the bread will become soggy in contact with the ricotta and figs.
If you prefer milder flavors, you can replace goat ricotta with cow's milk ricotta, although this will lessen the contrast of flavors.

