name:
Fig and Almond Jam
ingredients:
Figs: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Almond slices: ½cup(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour of maceration

instructions:
Green, sweet, and sugary... who are we talking about? Obviously, one of the sweetest fruits of late summer: figs! You have to wait an entire year to enjoy them, and their time doesn't last long, but the best way to preserve all their sweetness is certainly to turn them into a jam, which will keep you company throughout the rest of the year. Sure, the options are endless, from the most classic to the flavored with vanilla, but this time we chose to surprise you by creating a fig and almond jam, which with its crunchy note will surely have an extra edge! Imagine waking up on a gloomy autumn morning, a slice of toasted bread and this jam will be the best treat you could wish for... and if that's not enough, use the fig and almond jam to make a delicious Hazelnut tart with fig jam , perfect at any time of day!
To prepare the fig and almond jam, first start by peeling the figs : from 1 kg you will get about 800 grams. At this point, cut them into wedges and then divide each wedge in half .
Transfer the figs into a saucepan, preferably with a thick bottom , add the lemon zest , the sugar
stir briefly and very gently, then cover with plastic wrap . Let the figs macerate for 1 hour and in the meantime, sanitize the jars where you will store your fig and almond jam; we recommend following the Ministry of Health guidelines provided at the end of the recipe. After this time, remove the plastic wrap and place on the stove. Use a high flame until it reaches a boil, then continue cooking on low heat, stirring occasionally,
until it reaches a temperature of 221°F ; always use a kitchen thermometer to measure the correct temperature. Unlike other jams, this one should not reach the usual temperature of 226°F, otherwise, since there are figs, it will become too dense and sticky. Meanwhile, as the jam reaches temperature, toast the almonds in a pan, over medium heat . When they are golden brown, turn off the heat and add them to your jam .
Stir to combine them with the rest , and then proceed to jar the fig and almond jam while it is still hot , leaving at least 1 cm (0.39 inches) of space from the lid; if more space is left, it's not a problem, as long as the vacuum seal is achieved without issues. Otherwise, you can use smaller jars, always leaving at least 1 cm (0.39 inches) from the edge. Screw on the sanitized lids tightly but not excessively and let cool. The heat from the jam will create the vacuum seal, allowing the product to be stored for a long time. Once the jars have cooled, check if the vacuum has been achieved correctly: you can press in the center of the lid, and if you don't hear the classic "click-clack," the vacuum seal has been achieved. Your fig and almond jam will then be ready to be enjoyed!
It is advisable to store the fig and almond jam for about 3 months, as long as the vacuum seal has been achieved correctly and the jars are kept in a cool, dry place, away from light and heat sources. It is recommended to wait at least 2-3 weeks before consuming the jam. Once opened, store each jar in the refrigerator and consume within 3-4 days at most.
To achieve a good jam, it is important to cook in the shortest time possible, avoiding cooking on too high a flame to prevent burning. For this reason, it is also useful not to cook too large quantities of fruit: the larger the quantity, the longer the time will be.
Homemade preserves and jams can pose health risks. In a domestic setting, it is impossible to create the necessary conditions and measures to ensure the safety and suitability of the food, which industrial procedures can guarantee to prevent dangerous contamination. It's therefore important to strictly follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it's crucial to always remember that the same food safety levels as professionally produced preserves and jams can never be achieved. For proper preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the Ministry of Health's guidelines .

