name:
Apple crème caramel with fig sauce
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: 0.625cup(150 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Eggs: 4
Egg yolks: 1
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Whole milk: 2cups(450 g)
Fuji Apples: 1lb(460 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Water: 0.42cup(100 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Figs: 300- whites
Brown sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Red wine: 0.42cup(100 g)
Lemon peel: ½

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Makes: 8 pieces

instructions:
The crème caramel has always been one of the most loved spoon desserts, not only in Italy but also internationally. Today, we have chosen to revolutionize the classic recipe, not because it isn't perfect, but to give it a touch of brio and bring something truly innovative to your tables! We present to you the apple crème caramel with fig sauce! We couldn't have chosen better fruits: the Fujion apple is an ideal variety for cooking, while the fig sauce will give the dessert a special sweetness. A combination of very sophisticated and balanced flavors thanks to the slightly bitter aftertaste of the caramel. Make this fantastic Fujion apple crème caramel with fig sauce yourself, there's no better way to beautifully end a dinner and you'll conquer your guests' palates in a flash!
To prepare the Fujion apple crème caramel with fig sauce, start by making the base mixture. Pour the milk, cream, seeds, and half a vanilla bean into a saucepan ; bring it to a simmer, then turn off the heat and let it infuse. In the meantime, wash the apples, cut them into wedges , peel them, and cut them into cubes .
Transfer them into a saucepan along with the water and sugar . Let them cook over moderate heat, stirring often ; it will take about 15 minutes .
Once the apples have softened, pour them into the glass of an immersion blender and blend them until you get a puree . At this point, mix eggs and sugar in a bowl , stirring quickly with a whisk until you get a homogeneous mixture.
Strain the milk and cream mixture directly into the bowl with the eggs , mix with a whisk , and also incorporate the apple puree .
Now take care of the caramel: place a pot on the stove, pour in the sugar a little at a time and let it melt and brown over low heat. Do not stir the sugar during this phase of preparation, but only rotate the pot.
Pour the caramel thus obtained at the bottom of the molds , let it solidify at room temperature, and finish filling the molds with the base mixture . Place them inside a baking dish and add boiling water until it covers a third of the mold.
Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 60 minutes. Then take out the crème caramel, let them cool, and place them in the refrigerator for about 3 hours. At this point, make the fig sauce: peel them and cut them into pieces .
Transfer them into a saucepan along with the brown sugar , let it melt over low heat and add the red wine . Also, add the finely grated lemon zest and stirring often, cook it all for another 10 minutes.
Blend the obtained compote with an immersion blender until you get a smooth sauce . When serving, flip the crème caramel onto a small plate. To extract it, simply detach the parts of the cream from the mold, helping yourself with a small knife, and flip it. All that's left is to serve your apple crème caramel with fig sauce .
Store your apple crème caramel for a maximum of 1-2 days in the refrigerator!
If the apple crème caramel is very cold, leave it at room temperature for about 20 minutes before serving! This way it will easily detach from the mold!

