name:
Tart with fig jam
ingredients:
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- cold from the refrigerator
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Figs: 4cups(600 g)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Lemons: ½- (juice and zest)
Water: 4tsp(20 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 5 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note plus the cooling time for the jam and the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
At the end of the summer, we all start to feel a sort of melancholy as the return to routine is imminent. Vacation days are perfect for spending time in the kitchen, creating delicious dishes and taking a well-deserved break to savor your work without rush! The fig tart is the perfect recipe to make towards the end of August when tables are abundant with this delicate fruit, also fabulous for making cakes or cookies . The crispy shortcrust pastry shell combined with homemade jam is the best way to enhance the sweet flavor of figs. Make this fabulous tart, the perfect dessert for any occasion to enjoy in company under the shade of a tree or on a terrace!
To prepare the fig tart, start by making the fig and vanilla jam. Peel your figs and cut them into 4 pieces , then place them in a large pot along with the water , stir, and bring to a boil.
Meanwhile, using a vegetable peeler, peel half a lemon , keeping the peels aside, and extract the juice, straining it from the seeds . Once the fig mixture has reached a boil, add the sugar and lemon juice to the pot .
Finally, add the lemon peel, half a vanilla bean, and its seeds (to extract them, simply cut the bean and scrape the seeds with a small knife). Continue cooking the fig jam, stirring occasionally, and skimming until it reaches a temperature of 219°F (use a kitchen thermometer to measure the correct temperature). At this point, remove it from the heat and discard the vanilla bean and lemon peels .
Pour it into a bowl to cool and in the meantime, prepare the shortcrust pastry. Place the sifted flour, a pinch of salt, and cold refrigerator butter cut into cubes in a food processor. Blend everything until you obtain a sandy mixture ,
then transfer it onto a work surface (or into a bowl) and add the sifted powdered sugar and lemon zest . Create a well in the center and pour in the egg yolks. Mix everything with a fork , then continue working the dough with your hands for a few minutes , until it becomes compact but not too warm.
Shape it into a loaf, wrap it in plastic wrap , and place it in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. At this point, take the shortcrust pastry and roll it out on a lightly floured surface until you obtain a circle about 0.4 inches (1 cm) thick .
Using a rolling pin, lift the rolled-out pastry, and place it in a circular tart pan with a diameter of 9 inches . Press it lightly with your hands to make it adhere to the mold and trim the excess pastry with a small knife . Knead the leftover pastry and set it aside.
Prick the base of the tart with the prongs of a fork and pour in the now-cold fig jam . Roll out the remaining pastry to a thickness of about 0.4 inches and, using a fluted pastry wheel, cut strips about 0.8 inches (2 cm) wide .
Then place them on the tart first horizontally and then vertically to form diamonds . Brush the surface of the pastry strips with the previously beaten egg and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 30 minutes (if using a fan oven, bake at 320°F for about 20 minutes). Once out of the oven , let it cool slightly and serve your fig tart.
Store the fig tart in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, well covered.
Try adding crumbled walnuts to the fig jam and use it to fill your tart!

