name:
How to Clean Anchovies
ingredients:
Anchovies: 1.1lbs(500 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
The anchovy, or anchovy fish, is a bluefish widely found in Italian seas. This fish is recognized by its small size and slender body with a typical elongated shape, characterized by a bluish color on the back, silvery on the sides, and whitish on the belly. The anchovy is particularly appreciated, its tasty and versatile meat allows for a wide use in cooking: for frying or Marinated Anchovies , delicious in Anchovies alla pizzaiola style! To achieve a perfect result in every preparation, it is necessary to pay attention to the purchase: a lively eye, a delicate smell, and firm meat indicate the freshness of the anchovies. Additionally, we recommend another very important precaution, which is to buy pre-frozen anchovies. If you are not sure they have undergone the freezing process, you can freeze them for at least one week at a temperature of 14°F, after carefully cleaning them. In this cooking school, we will show you step by step how to clean and preserve anchovies at their best and have them ready for all your delicious recipes!
To use anchovies in cooking, it is necessary to gut and clean them thoroughly before storing them in the refrigerator for a maximum of 1 day or placing them in the freezer. To clean the anchovies, start by wearing disposable latex gloves. Take the anchovies , place a colander in a sink to facilitate cleaning. Then remove the head, grabbing it between your fingertips at the gills and, applying slight pressure, pull it towards you . During this operation, try to also remove the internal organs of the fish : these will indeed come off along with the head.
Gently open the anchovy like a book, sliding your thumb along the spine, starting from the point where you removed the head, opening it halfway to the tail . Gently take the central spine starting from the head part and detach it gently from the meat . Reach the tail taking care not to detach it .
Rinse each deboned anchovy thoroughly under a stream of cold water . Then place the anchovies on a tray lined with absorbent paper to drain (if you prefer, you can also gently pat the fish with absorbent paper or a clean cloth). Your anchovies are ready. At this point, if the recipe requires it, you can also remove the tail, detaching it gently with your hands .
Alternatively, you can divide the deboned anchovies in half to obtain two fillets by splitting each anchovy starting from the head and gently pulling the two halves outward . Again, you can leave or remove the tail depending on the recipe or your preferences . If the fish has not been pre-frozen or for proper freezer preservation, place the anchovies, whole or filleted, on a tray covered with plastic wrap and place them in the freezer at a temperature of at least 14°F. Once they are hardened, you can transfer them to a freezer bag and keep them frozen for at least one week . After that, they will be ready for use.
Buy properly frozen fish from your trusted fishmonger.
Then store the anchovies, after thoroughly gutting and cleaning them, for a maximum of 1 day in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap.
You can always freeze them gutted, for at least 1 week before using them in your preparations.

