name:
Troccoli with dried tomatoes, anchovies, and crunchy bread crumbs
ingredients:
Troccoli pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Dried tomatoes: 2.8oz(80 g)
Bread: to taste- stale breadcrumbs
Extra virgin olive oil: 6spoonfuls
Anchovies: 1.1oz(30 g)- in oil
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: 1

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Dried tomatoes are a typical product of Southern Italy where, in summer, it's possible to see large expanses of tomatoes halved and laid out in the sun to dry. In this very flavorful recipe, we dressed fresh troccoli (typical pasta from Puglia similar to spaghetti alla chitarra) with dried tomatoes along with other typically Mediterranean ingredients such as anchovies, garlic, chili pepper, and extra virgin olive oil, in which we made the bread crumbs crunchy. You'll get a rather simple first course but with an unforgettable summer flavor!
In the winter season, try instead the pasta with broccoli, cherry tomatoes, and bread crumbs , wholesome and appetizing.
Soak the dried tomatoes in a bowl of very hot water until they rehydrate (10-15 minutes). In the meantime, remove the crust from the loaf and tear the bread crumbs into small pieces, reducing them to fine crumbs with the help of a food processor . Drain the oil from the anchovies and chop them finely ;
also chop the garlic clove and the chili pepper, having previously removed the seeds . Place 3 tablespoons of oil in a pan and gently fry and dissolve the anchovies over low heat , then add the chopped garlic and chili pepper .
Thoroughly drain the rehydrated dried tomatoes, pat them dry with kitchen paper , and cut them into thin strips ; add them and sauté for a few seconds with the other ingredients in the pan .
In another pan, place 3 tablespoons of oil and brown the bread crumbs until they are crispy. Meanwhile, cook the troccoli in lightly salted water (considering the significant saltiness of the seasoning), drain them and sauté for a few seconds in the pan with the dried tomato mixture , adding, if necessary, a few tablespoons of cooking water to mix everything well. Once you've already turned off the heat, add the crunchy bread crumbs , then plate and serve immediately.
If you love long pasta, for this recipe you can also use bucatini, spaghetti, linguine, or vermicelli.

