name:
Roasted Pepper Fillets with Anchovies and Flavors
ingredients:
Yellow peppers: 0.8lb(350 g)
Red peppers: 2.3cups(350 g)
Parsley: 1tuft
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Pine nuts: 1spoonful
Anchovies in oil: 12- fillets
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Roasted pepper fillets with anchovies and flavors are a delicious appetizer, to be served with fresh bread or crunchy crostini. The cooking of the Baked Peppers makes this dish more digestible, and the chopped flavors that cover them form a really tempting seasoning. The anchovies and the mix of chili, pine nuts, parsley, and minced garlic enhance the smoky flavor of the peppers. Adding a drizzle of oil to the seasoning makes the fillets even more delicious and succulent. A trick to peel the peppers more easily is to put them still hot in a plastic bag and wait 10-15 minutes: this way, removing the skin will be much easier. The most appropriate season to prepare this recipe is summer when peppers are at their peak flavor, ready to be grilled and enjoyed on the spot. All you have to do is prepare the roasted pepper fillets with anchovies and flavors to delight your lunches and dinners!
To prepare the roasted pepper fillets with anchovies and flavors, start by preheating the oven to the highest temperature. Then, carefully wash the peppers under running water and dry them with a cloth or kitchen paper. Place them on a baking sheet covered with parchment paper and bake them in a static oven at 356°F for 30-40 minutes. The cooking time depends on the type of pepper, its size, and the thickness of the flesh. When the surface appears wrinkled and charred , you can take them out of the oven. Then transfer them to a cutting board and remove the stem .
Open them carefully, being mindful not to break the flesh, and remove the seeds inside using a spoon . Then, peel the skin with your hands or with the help of a knife . If you find it difficult to perform this operation, place the still-hot peppers in a plastic bag (the ones used for freezing food) and wait 10-15 minutes. After this time, you should be able to peel the skin more easily. Finally, cut them into fillets lengthwise . Perform the same operations with the red pepper and set everything aside.
Now, prepare the seasoning: chop the garlic clove, pine nuts, parsley, and fresh red chili . Pour the chopped garlic and pine nuts into a bowl and also add the parsley and chili (8-9).
Finally, season with a drizzle of oil until all the flavors are well immersed . At this point, take the pepper fillets and place an anchovy on each one .
Roll up each fillet, forming small rolls , transfer them to a plate, and season them with the aromatic seasoning you prepared . Now, all that's left is to place your roasted pepper rolls with anchovies and flavors on a bed of salad and serve them !
Store the roasted pepper fillets with anchovies and flavors in the fridge, well-covered with cling film or in an airtight container, for a maximum of 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
The first thing you need to do is choose very meaty peppers, suitable for roasting. Enjoy this dish during an outdoor barbecue, as the barbecue will make it easy to roast the peppers! If during the peeling of the peppers the pieces of flesh break irreparably, chop them and add them to the ingredients of the seasoning in the right proportion. This way, you will get an excellent topping for bruschetta.

