name:
Modern Watermelon Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (about 1 medium)
Potato starch: 2tbsp(25 g)
Almond flour: ¼cup(25 g)
Brown sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)
Watermelon: 0.88lb(400 g)
Sugar: 4 ½tbsp(55 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(9 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Lime peel: 1
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.67cup(80 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.9cups(450 g)
Mint: 3sprigs
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(12 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 0.44cup(100 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(120 g)
Watermelon: 2.3cups(350 g)- pulp

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 8
Note + cooling times for preparations (several hours)

instructions:
Cakes are all good, but some can captivate the eyes even before the palate, like the modern watermelon cake with its perfect shapes and vibrant interior! A modern cake is a dessert that deviates from traditional norms: the cold chain is respected, specific tools are used, and special inserts are created in the dessert to amaze when cut. In this case, the modern watermelon cake features a heart of watermelon gelee, wrapped in two mousses: one lime and one mint, all supported by a sponge cake base. Making it will require some patience to achieve the right consistency, inside and out. But the result will be worth it and it will be the perfect dessert to celebrate the quintessential summer fruit: watermelon!
To prepare the modern watermelon cake, start with the watermelon gelee, which will be inserted into the cake: soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for at least 10 minutes. Meanwhile, cut away the rind and chop the flesh into large pieces (you should obtain 250 g of flesh). Pour it into a saucepan with the sugar .
Let it cook for about 5 minutes, then remove from heat and blend everything with an immersion blender to obtain a puree. Squeeze out the gelatin and add it to the watermelon puree , then blend again for a few seconds .
Apply film to the 20 cm diameter ring , place it on a tray, and pour the gelatin onto the film , making it easier to remove once the shape solidifies. Place in the freezer for at least half an hour, perfectly horizontal.
For the lime mousse, soak 8 g of gelatin sheets in cold water for about 10 minutes. Then bring 3.5 oz of heavy cream to a simmer in a saucepan, grate the lime and flavor the cream . Turn off the heat and add the well-squeezed gelatin to the still hot cream , mix well to melt it completely and let it cool to room temperature. In a bowl, pour 7 oz of fresh liquid cream, the mascarpone
and the powdered sugar . Whip with electric beaters, then add the lime-flavored cream in which you melted the gelatin . Mix again to obtain a smooth, homogeneous, and lump-free cream.
Once ready, it should be poured over the now solidified gelee so that you have the base and the heart of the modern cake ready after 1 hour in the freezer, perfectly horizontal.
Work sugar and eggs to obtain a fluffy and light mixture . Add the sifted flours .
Mix everything using a hand whisk , with gentle movements from bottom to top. Pour the obtained mixture into a 24 cm ring lined with parchment paper and placed on a baking tray also lined with parchment paper . Bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F, middle shelf, for 20 minutes. Once ready, remove from the oven and let it cool completely .
Proceed with the mint mousse, soak 12 g of gelatin sheets in cold water for about 10 minutes. Then pour 5.3 oz of cream into a saucepan, add the previously washed and dried mint leaves . Bring to a simmer, then turn off the heat and add the squeezed gelatin . Mix to dissolve completely. Let it cool to room temperature. You will then need to remove the mint leaves .
Work with the beaters 10.5 oz of fresh cream, the mascarpone, and sugar. Then add the mint-flavored cream (without leaves) and mix again . Then let it rest out of the fridge. It will be the top coating of the cake to pour over the heart of watermelon gelee as seen in the "Assemble the Cake" box.
Line the 24 cm disc with acetate, lay the sponge cake base. Then take the now solidified disc of lime mousse and gelee and remove the film under the gelee , slide out the ring and place the disc on the sponge base with the gelee facing up , positioning it perfectly in the center.
Pour the mint mousse over the other components of the cake until everything is covered and gently level the surface . Let it rest in the freezer for at least 1 hour. Meanwhile, prepare another watermelon gelee, as you did previously (see "For the Gelee" box). Once the gelatin is poured and mixed again to blend
pass the obtained mixture through a sieve to filter it and collect the juice .
Once it has cooled and the cake is stabilized, pour it over the cake surface , then place it back in the freezer for 30 minutes. The modern watermelon cake is ready to be enjoyed.


The modern watermelon cake can be stored in the freezer for 30 days, in the fridge for a maximum of 5 days.

It is recommended to respect the indicated cold chain. To work even better, it is preferable to extend the rests in the freezer for at least one night.



