name:
Apple Cake in a Pan
ingredients:
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (2 medium)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(190 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Fuji Apples: 2- from 180 g
Sunflower seed oil: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Butter: 0.8tbsp(10 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp(10 g)
Cinnamon powder: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
The apple cake in a pan is the perfect answer to that unmistakable call of the apple cake , even when turning on the oven is not an option. A simple, quick, and incredibly soft dessert, made with a few ingredients and a common non-stick pan. We had already experimented with a simpler and neutral batter with the cake in a pan , but this time we wanted to ensure we also provided you with true comfort food.
The apple cake in a pan is perfect for breakfast, ideal for an impromptu snack, or as a sweet treat at the end of a meal, this cake will satisfy everyone. Even without an oven, you can still “bake,” or rather, pan-bake, an apple cake that tastes like home, like goodness, like that comfort food that never disappoints.
Also try the summer version with the peach pan cake recipe or the savory vegetable pan cake for a tasty and wholesome appetizer!
To prepare the apple cake in a pan, start by pouring eggs with sugar and cinnamon into a bowl. Turn on the beaters and whip for 10 minutes .
When the mixture is well-risen, add the oil and then the milk in a thin stream. Turn off the beaters and sift the flour and baking powder directly into the bowl .
Turn on the beaters for a moment to mix and set aside for a moment. Cut half an apple into cubes of about 1/2-3/4 inch , and with the rest, make wedges about 1/8 inch thick .
Pour the apple pieces into the bowl with the batter and mix . Grease a pan, with a diameter of 9 1/2 inches on the surface and 8 inches at the base, and let the butter melt by spreading it with a napkin .
When the bottom is hot, pour the apple cake batter . Arrange the apple slices in a fan: start from the outside and reach the center .
Cover with the lid and let it cook on low heat for about 40 minutes . Place a pizza plate on the surface (after gently detaching the cake from the edges and base with a spatula).
Flip the cake and gently turn it back into the pan to brown for another 5-10 minutes on low heat with the lid . When the apple cake in the pan is cool, dust with powdered sugar as desired and serve .
The apple cake in a pan can be stored covered in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
We recommend cooking the apple cake in a pan on an induction stove. If you don't have one, you can also cook the cake on a classic gas stove. You should use the medium burner and cook the cake on low heat; it's important to always pour the batter into the already hot pan. Cooking times also vary: cook for 25 minutes before flipping the cake, then cook for another 5 minutes and always perform the toothpick test before turning off the heat.
To make the apple cake in a pan, it is advised to use a high-sided, non-stick pan and a lid with a steam vent, of the right size.
Flavor the batter with vanilla seeds or citrus zest as desired.

