name:
Cucumber and Goat Cheese Sandwich
ingredients:
Sandwich bread: 3slices- whole grain
Cucumbers: 1
Goat: 0.55lb(250 g)- fresh
Mayonnaise: 0.4cup(100 g)
Chives: to taste- dried
Parsley: to taste- dried
Basil: to taste- dried
Garlic powder: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste- fresh
White wine vinegar: 2.1cups(500 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 2 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
The cucumber and goat cheese sandwich is a delicious twist on a classic English tea sandwich, the cucumber sandwich, which is traditionally served with afternoon tea in the UK. In our version, the typical white sandwich bread is replaced with a more rustic and flavorful multigrain bread, and instead of the traditional thin layer of butter, the layers are enriched with herb goat cheese spread and mayonnaise! But the real star of this reinvented classic remains the cucumber, which becomes soft, tangy, and deliciously savory thanks to a quick blanching in water, salt, and vinegar. This appetizing vegetarian sandwich is perfect for a picnic or as an office lunchbox treat, but thanks to its simple yet impressive decoration, it will also shine on a buffet table for parties and birthdays. And if the idea of afternoon tea has piqued your interest, try the cucumber sandwiches in our Aperitè version, elegant and with a touch of uniquely English eccentricity!
Discover other delicious homemade vegetarian sandwiches here:
To prepare the cucumber and goat cheese sandwich, start by handling the cucumbers: wash them and cut them into very thin slices . Then cut some of the slices in half and set them aside .
Bring water with salt and vinegar to a boil and immerse the cucumber slices . After 1-2 minutes, drain them and set them aside .
In the same cooking water, add the halved slices and blanch them for 1 or 2 minutes as well. Drain them and set them aside. Then, prepare the cheese spread: place the goat cheese in a bowl .
Add the dried herbs (parsley, basil, and chives) , garlic powder , salt, pepper, and finally, the extra virgin olive oil .
Mix everything carefully and proceed to assemble the sandwich: generously spread a slice of bread with the herb cheese spread , then distribute the cucumber rounds .
Arrange them side by side to form an orderly layer and then spread another slice with mayonnaise . Place it on top of the other, with the mayonnaise side facing down .
Repeat a complete layer, identical to the previous one: cheese spread, cucumbers, slice of bread spread with mayonnaise. On the top surface of the slice, spread a thin layer of cheese spread and decorate with the halved cucumber slices, arranging them in slightly staggered rows for a nice visual effect . Cut your sandwich in half and garnish with fresh thyme as desired !
The cucumber and goat cheese sandwich can be stored in the fridge in an airtight container for up to 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
For a 100% plant-based version, simply use plant-based cream cheese and mayonnaise instead of the traditional ones!

