name:
Sea bream in a pan
ingredients:
Sea bream: 2.4lbs(1100 g)- (2 pieces)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Carrots: 1cup(150 g)
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Fresh scallion: 2.5oz(70 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: to taste-

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
It is one of the most prized fish that our sea offers us, thanks to its white, lean meat with a delicate flavor: we are talking about sea bream! After having offered you various baked recipes, like sea bream in foil or Mediterranean style , today we want to focus on speed and practicality by cooking sea bream in a pan: in this way, and in no time, you will manage to serve a light and tasty fish main course, complete with a side dish! Yes, because in this recipe the sea bream is cooked in a pan along with a mix of vegetables that flavor and are flavored by the fish juices, keeping them tender and enhancing the taste. Perfect for any occasion, sea bream in a pan is a simple and appetizing dish that will delight seafood lovers during your dinners! Discover these variations too: sea bream fillets and potatoes in a pan and sea bream fillets in a pan !
To prepare sea bream in a pan, first, take care of cleaning the fish (otherwise, if you buy them already gutted, their weight should be around 14 oz each): make an incision in the belly with scissors and remove the entrails by hand , then rinse the inside thoroughly under running water and remove the scales using a scaler or the blade of a knife; do this operation under running water or inside a plastic bag to avoid spreading scales everywhere . For more details on the procedure, consult our cooking school How to Clean Sea Bream .
Now move on to cutting the vegetables: wash and peel the carrots, then trim the ends and cut them into slices about 1/4 inch thick . Wash and trim the zucchini, cut them in half lengthwise and then further divide each half ; finally, cut them into cubes about 3/8 inch thick .
Lastly, wash the green onion, remove the base and cut it into slices about 1/4 inch thick . Pour the oil into a large non-stick pan, add the unpeeled garlic clove, and let it fry for a couple of minutes . Once the oil is flavored, remove the garlic from the pan and place the sea bream inside, then add the carrots ,
the zucchini , the green onion , and the thyme sprigs , salt, and pepper to taste.
Cover the pan with a lid and cook over medium heat for 7 minutes, then turn the sea bream with the help of 2 spatulas, being careful not to break them ; cover again with the lid and cook for another 7 minutes . The cooking times, of course, may vary depending on the weight of the sea bream you use. Sea bream in a pan is ready to be served!
You can store sea bream in a pan in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to 3 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
Personalize the side dish of sea bream in a pan using seasonal vegetables or those you prefer. A master's touch: flavor the belly of the sea bream with verbena or tarragon leaves... once filleted, it will release an intoxicating aroma!

