name:
Smoked Sea Bream on Mixed Greens, Croutons, and Honey Vinaigrette
ingredients:
Sea bream: 7.1oz(200 g)- (smoked fillets)
Arugula: 5cups(100 g)
Mixed salad: 2cups(100 g)
Bread: 4.2oz(120 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(50 g)
Apple cider vinegar: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Acacia honey: 1tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Black olives: 1.1oz(30 g)- (pitted)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 2

instructions:
Need to whip up a fresh and tasty dish for a special lunch or dinner but are short on ideas and don't want to be mundane? We have an original and delicious solution for you: smoked sea bream on mixed greens, croutons, and honey vinaigrette! This recipe combines many flavors that perfectly blend together to create a refined and anything but ordinary dish! The flavorful smoked sea bream fillets, accompanied by a rich mix of greens with cherry tomatoes, croutons, and black olives, are seasoned with a sophisticated honey vinaigrette, adding a touch of amazing goodness to your dish. So what are you waiting for? Get ready to delight and amaze your guests with an unexpected and incredibly tasty idea!
To prepare the smoked sea bream on mixed greens and honey vinaigrette, start by toasting the bread: cut the bread into chunks about ½ inch , then place it on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper ,
drizzle with oil and let it brown in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 18-20 minutes (or in a convection oven at 356°F for 10-15 minutes). In the meantime, prepare the honey vinaigrette: in a bowl pour the oil , then add the apple cider vinegar ,
then add the acacia honey , salt , pepper ,
and emulsify everything by mixing with a fork . At this point, your honey vinaigrette will be ready . Then take the smoked sea bream fillets, divide them in two , and set aside.
Arrange a bed of arugula and salad on a serving platter, add the chopped cherry tomatoes , the croutons , the smoked sea bream fillets .
Finally, add the black olives and drizzle everything with the honey vinaigrette . Your smoked sea bream on mixed greens, croutons, and honey vinaigrette is ready to be enjoyed !
It is preferable to consume the smoked sea bream on mixed greens, croutons, and honey vinaigrette immediately after preparation, otherwise store it for a maximum of one day in the refrigerator.
If you like, instead of the honey vinaigrette, you can try to give your dish extra flavor with a citronette, made with lemon or lime instead of vinegar.

