name:
Stewed Sea Bream with Potato Side Dish
ingredients:
Sea bream: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (2 of 500 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 3 ⅓cups(500 g)
Water: 0.67cup(150 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Greek yogurt: ¾cup(175 g)
Chives: 2fili
White pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Stewed sea bream with potato side dish is a flavorful fish main course, one of the great classics of seafood cuisine. The sea bream fillets, gently cooked in tomato sauce, absorb its rich and pronounced flavor, making them more tender and tasty than ever. The potato side dish, made fresher with yogurt, provides the dish with its worthy accompaniment! For a family dinner or a Sunday lunch, stewed sea bream is the right choice: a dish that embodies the simple and authentic taste of tradition but also nods to lightness and more contemporary eating habits.
Also try these delicious pan-fried sea bream fillets !
To prepare stewed sea bream with a potato side dish, start with the cleaning of the sea bream . Take the first sea bream and place it on a cutting board . Use a pair of scissors to cut along the belly of the fish and remove the innards .
Thoroughly wash the inside of the fish under running water , and, keeping the sea bream in the sink, use a sharp knife to remove the fins and scrape off the scales . Now, place the sea bream back on the cutting board and with a sharp knife make a cut to remove the head at the level of the gills .
Holding the knife horizontally to the work surface, make a cut along the back of the sea bream to detach the flesh from the bone . Perform the same procedure on the other side to obtain 2 fillets. Using tweezers, remove the remaining bones from the fillets .
Now prepare the sauce in which you will cook the fillets. First, cut the cherry tomatoes into 4 parts and place them in a large pan with oil and the peeled garlic clove . Let cook for about 25 minutes, adding water to the sauce when it becomes too thick .
Season the sauce with salt and set aside . In the meantime, wash the potatoes and boil them whole with their skins : it will take about 20-30 minutes; to check if they are done, do the fork test, and if they are ready, drain them, otherwise continue until the right degree of doneness. Once ready, peel the potatoes
and after letting them cool, cut them into cubes . In a small bowl, place the yogurt, season with pepper, add the chives cut into thin rings , and mix .
Season the potatoes with this sauce , gently mixing with a spoon . In the meantime, remove the garlic clove from the sauce ,
place the sea bream fillets in the pan , cover with a lid, and cook on low heat for about 10 minutes . Plate the stewed sea bream with the potato side dish and savor its full flavor !
Stewed sea bream with potato side dish can be stored covered with cling film or in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 1 day.
If you have more time, you can extend the cooking of the sauce to make it even more flavorful!

