name:
Vegetable Caponata
ingredients:
Eggplant: 2
Zucchini: 2
Red peppers: 1
Yellow peppers: 1
Celery: 2ribs
White onions: 1
Ribbed tomatoes: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 6 ¾tbsp(100 g)
Red wine vinegar: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Sugar: 2spoonfuls
Pine nuts: ¼tbsp(30 g)
Raisins: 3tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Vegetable caponata is the ideal spring side dish to bring intense flavors and vibrant colors to the table, inspired by the traditional Sicilian caponata , but in a richer version. In this recipe, crunchy vegetables are combined with the softness of fried eggplants, creating a truly delicious texture contrast. The whole is enhanced by a delightful sweet and sour taste that makes each bite unique and unforgettable.
Try serving it with a slice of toasted bread: it will be impossible to resist. Fresh basil completes the dish, adding aroma and freshness, beautifully closing this bouquet of Mediterranean flavors. What are you waiting for? Prepare your vegetable caponata now and let yourself be captivated by its authentic taste.
Discover more variations of caponata here:
To prepare your vegetable caponata, start by slicing the eggplants lengthwise first and then into cubes . Pour oil into a large saucepan .
When the oil is hot, add the eggplants . Cook them over medium heat for about 10 minutes , once golden, remove them from the saucepan and set them aside.
Cut the celery and onion into cubes. In the same pan, add the onions .
Add the celery . Let them cook on low heat for 4 minutes or until they are tender. Meanwhile, cut the red peppers into cubes after removing the stem and inner seeds .
Also cut the yellow peppers . Add the red peppers and yellow peppers to the saucepan.
After adding the zucchini, cook and stir frequently . After 5 minutes, the vegetables will be cooked, at which point you can add the ribbed tomatoes and the previously fried eggplants .
Season with sugar , red wine vinegar , and add the pine nuts .
All that's missing is the raisins previously soaked in hot water , season with a pinch of salt and a grind of black pepper
Cook for another 10 minutes on low heat to allow all the flavors to amalgamate and blend together . Fragrance and color with fresh basil . Your vegetable caponata is ready to be served!
Vegetable caponata keeps for two days in the refrigerator; freezing is not recommended.
Vegetable caponata gives its best in spring and summer seasons, but you can use your preferred vegetables while always ensuring they are cooked al dente.

