name:
Fried pizza with escarole
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 8cups(1 kg)- (W 280)
Water: 3cups(700 g)
Salt: 4 ½tsp(25 g)
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(3 g)
Curly endive: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to clean)
Datterino tomatoes: 2cups(400 g)
Olive: 7oz(200 g)
Pecorino cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to be grated)
Capers: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Pine nuts: 3.3tbsp(30 g)
Colatura di alici (fishsauce): 2tbsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the dough rising time (6-8 h)

instructions:
Fried pizza with escarole is a rustic and irresistible leavened product that has its roots in the Campanian tradition. Ideally, you would enjoy this street food while strolling through the streets of Naples, but in the absence of that, you can always prepare it at home and enjoy its goodness. Crunchy on the outside and soft on the inside thanks to the double cooking, its strength lies in the contrast between the fragrance of the fried dough and the fresh and tasty filling made of Mediterranean ingredients. In the version proposed here by Davide Civitiello, the slightly bitter taste of the curly escarole perfectly matches the bold touch of anchovy sauce and the saltiness of olives and capers. Bringing fried pizza with escarole to the table means giving yourself an unforgettable, authentic, and genuine taste experience!
If you're looking for other Neapolitan street food recipes do not miss:
To prepare the fried pizza with escarole, first put the flour in a large bowl, add the yeast , and quickly mix with your hands. Pour in some of the water and knead until it is absorbed by the flour. Then continue to pour in the water a little at a time until you get a homogeneous mixture.
Add the salt and continue kneading to incorporate it . Move to the work surface and knead the dough for about 20 minutes , until it is smooth and homogeneous.
Cover the dough with the bowl and let it rest on the work surface for 15 to 40 minutes. At this point, divide the dough into 6 pieces of 10 oz each .
Take each piece and stretch the edges from the outside towards the center , then round to form balls . Place the balls in a proofing box, close with a lid, and let rise for 6-8 hours at a temperature of about 64°F-75°F .
After the rising time, roll out the dough balls on a lightly floured work surface, pressing them slightly with your fingertips and touching them as little as possible; you should form a disc about 8 inches in diameter . Then fry them in seed oil at 356°F ; for even cooking, pour the hot oil over the surface of the pizza using a ladle. Fry for about 5-7 minutes, turning halfway through cooking. As they are cooked, transfer the fried pizzas to absorbent paper to remove excess oil .
In the meantime, prepare the filling: cut the curly escarole into pieces and the cherry tomatoes into wedges . Put them in a bowl and add the olives .
Add the capers , pine nuts , and anchovy sauce .
Pour in the oil , add the grated pecorino cheese , and mix everything together .
Cut the pizzas in half and fill them with the stuffing . Finally, bake the stuffed pizzas in the oven at 392°F for 4-5 minutes. Your fried pizza with escarole is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the fried pizza with escarole right after preparation.
Like any great classic of Neapolitan street food, fried pizza with escarole lends itself to many delicious variations: for example, you can enrich the filling with smoked provola or scamorza cheese to get a stringy and even tastier heart!
If you like it spicy, add a bit of chili pepper to the seasoning.

