name:
Sicilian-style Sea Bream Sandwich
ingredients:
Sea bream: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (2 of 500 g)
Ground black pepper: 10
Lemon peel: 1
Parsley: 1bunch- (stems)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 3.5oz(100 g)
Capers: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Sandwich bread: 4.2oz(120 g)
Egg whites: 0.3cup(70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Arugula: to taste- (for plating)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 13 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
We all know and love sandwiches: soft slices of bread that can hold many delicious ingredients combined in a unique way, to be dressed with favorite sauces! Today, however, we offer you an original alternative featuring fish: the Sicilian-style sea bream sandwich! Not your usual sandwich, but a creation made with this highly appreciated fish, opened like a book and stuffed. It's a main dish with an intense flavor, thanks also to a steaming process that releases all the aromas of lemon and parsley, allowing you to enjoy the tender sea bream meat to the fullest. For the filling, we chose a creamy mixture of sun-dried tomatoes and capers, reminiscent of the authentic flavors of Sicily. An unusual version to savor sea bream, ideal to serve on the occasion of a lunch with friends, to surprise your fish-loving guests!
To prepare the Sicilian-style sea bream sandwiches, start with the filling: take the bread, cut off the crusts , and divide the slices into small squares . Then, take a blender, add the sun-dried tomatoes and capers .
Add in the bread squares , then the egg whites and the extra virgin olive oil .
Activate the blender and blend the ingredients until you get a smooth cream , then set the cream aside. Next, focus on the cleaning of the sea bream . Make a cut along the belly of the fish from the tail to the head using scissors and remove the internal organs .
Rinse the fish thoroughly inside and out . Remove the fins with scissors. Then place the sea bream under running water and start scaling it with a special tool (or by rubbing the blade of a knife) from the tail to the head of the fish . Repeat the process until you have removed all the scales. Then remove the gills and cut the head off .
Then, fillet the sea bream: make an incision along the back and cut deeply, working with the blade horizontally compared to the work surface so you can separate the meat from the bone and obtain the first fillet. Flip the sea bream and repeat the operation, detaching the meat from the bone to get the second fillet. Remove any remaining bones with tweezers . Proceed with the second sea bream to obtain more fillets and pat them lightly with paper towels to dry excess liquids.
Adjust with salt and pepper . Use a spatula to spread the Sicilian sauce over each fillet, covering the entire surface (17-18).
Place one fillet on top of the other, so that the part with the seasoning matches: this way, you'll get two sea bream sandwiches . Set aside. Take a large steamer pot, fill it halfway with water so that when you place the basket, the water does not touch the surface. Add the black peppercorns and parsley stems .
Add the peel of one lemon and place the basket. Then pour in the oil and lightly grease the basket to prevent the fish from sticking to the bottom during cooking and position the sea bream sandwiches . Let them cook for about 10-13 minutes with the lid on.
Meanwhile, take a plate and place the previously washed and dried arugula on it ; using a kitchen spatula, transfer the cooked sea bream sandwiches onto the arugula bed . Now your sandwiches, still warm, are ready to be served . If you prefer, you can add olive tapenade to the filling and dress with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil!
The Sicilian-style sea bream sandwiches can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 day in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
The filling of these sea bream sandwiches has a very intense taste. To make it fresher and lighter with the arrival of the beautiful season, you can try adding a few mint leaves or fresh parsley: you'll get a very original mix! And as a side dish to remind you of sunny Sicily, try adding pitted olives!

