name:
Mixed Fried Fish and Vegetables
ingredients:
Cod fillet: 10.6oz(300 g)
Shrimps: 12- Argentinian
Calamari (squid): 0.7lb(300 g)- to clean
Type 00 flour: to taste
Semolina: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Zucchini: 2
Carrots: 2
Red peppers: 1
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(320 g)
Sparkling water: 1.6cups(360 g)- cold
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Mayonnaise: 0.4cup(100 g)
Capers in vinegar: 1spoonful
Parsley: 1spoonful
Lemon juice: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
What could be better than a mixed fried fish ? A mixed fried fish and vegetables, even more rich and appetizing! In this delicious mix, you'll find shrimp tails, shrimp rings of squid and chunks of cod, all wrapped in a golden crust made with a blend of flours that makes the frying even crispier. To complete this seafood dish, there is a trio of colorful vegetables, made even more delicious with a batter for frying . Zucchini, carrots, and bell peppers, dipped in a light batter, transform into irresistible and fragrant bites. The dish is completed with a homemade caper sauce, perfect for enhancing the flavors of the fish and vegetables. With this mixed fried fish and vegetables, you'll bring to the table a fried treat that celebrates the flavors of the sea and land, perfect for enjoying a sunny day in good company!
If you are a fan of fried fish, try these other tantalizing recipes:

To prepare the mixed fried fish and vegetables, first make the sauce: chop the capers , then in a bowl add the mayonnaise, lemon juice, and chopped parsley .
Add the chopped capers and season with salt and pepper . Mix well and place the sauce in the fridge .
Wash all the vegetables. Cut the bell pepper in half, remove the stem and seeds , then slice it into sticks . Peel and trim the carrots, then slice these into sticks as well .
Now trim the zucchini, cut them in half lengthwise and remove the white inner part , then slice into sticks of the same size as the other vegetables . Set aside and prepare the batter for frying the vegetables: in a bowl, pour the flour and sparkling water .
Mix well with a whisk to get a smooth batter without lumps . Keep the batter in the fridge and prepare the breading for the fish: in a dish, combine the flour and semolina in equal amounts (about 150 g or enough to bread).
Mix to blend the powders . Clean the shrimp : remove the head, peel off the shell keeping the tail, then remove the black string along the back . Now clean the squid and cut them into rings about 1.25 inches wide .
Finally, cut the cod into chunks, they should be roughly the same thickness as the shrimp . Heat the seed oil for frying, it should reach about 356°F. Coat the shrimp in the breading , then remove excess flour with a sieve .
Proceed in the same way with the squid and the cod chunks .
Once all the fish is well floured , start frying by immersing a few pieces at a time with a slotted spoon: begin with the shrimp , then drain them once they are golden brown .
Let them drain on a tray lined with paper towels . Continue frying the cod and then the squid .
Drain everything on the tray and set aside. Now for the vegetables: dip them in the batter you prepared earlier and mix well .
Immerse the vegetables in the hot oil and fry until the batter is crispy and golden, then drain on paper towels . Finally, salt to taste. The mixed fried fish and vegetables is ready to be served with the caper sauce !
We recommend consuming the mixed fried fish and vegetables as soon as it's ready.
You can vary the vegetables according to seasonal availability: broccoli, cauliflower, and eggplant are perfect alternatives!
The white part discarded from the zucchini can be used for a broth.

