name:
Spaghetti with Bell Pepper Cream and Octopus
ingredients:
Onions: 1
Anchovies in oil: 3fillets
Water: to taste
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Almond slices: 1.8oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Octopus: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Lemons: 1
Parsley: 1sprig
Garlic: 2cloves
Black pepper: 1tsp
Red peppers: 2
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Spaghetti with bell pepper cream and octopus is an enticing first course with a taste of the sea, perfect for your summer dinners. We have brought out the best of this brightly colored vegetable, sweet and savory, which deliciously wraps around a light and aromatic grilled octopus. The result is a genuine and captivating pasta that will win you over at the first bite!
Come and discover other delicious summer recipes:

To prepare spaghetti with bell pepper cream and octopus, start by cooking the octopus: fill a large pot with water, then add a handful of coarse salt, black peppercorns , half a lemon cut in two, and the zest of the whole lemon . Crush the garlic so it will release its aroma better .
Add 2 cloves to the pot along with the parsley. Submerge the octopus and cook for 50 minutes from boiling. Meanwhile, prepare the bell pepper cream: brush the bell peppers with oil , then roast them in a static oven at 392°F for 30 minutes, or until the skin is well blistered.
Once ready , transfer them to a bowl and cover with plastic wrap . Let them cool for about 15 minutes.
Remove the skin from the peppers and extract the internal seeds. Cut the peppers into large pieces . Clean and chop the onion .


Heat a swirl of oil in a pan , add the onion , the anchovies , and sauté for a few moments.
Add the bell peppers , let them season for a few minutes, then cover with a ladle of octopus cooking water . Cook for 10-15 minutes until the peppers are very soft .
Place the cooked peppers in a tall glass and blend them adding a stream of oil , to obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream . Set aside.
Once cooked, place the octopus on a cutting board, separate the tentacles from the rest of the body , and brush them with a bit of extra-virgin oil . Grill the octopus in a hot pan to make it crispy on the outside.
Remove the tentacles from the heat and cut them into chunks . Toast the sliced almonds in a static oven at 338°F for 2-3 minutes . Place a pot full of salted water on the stove. When it boils, cook the spaghetti three minutes less than the time indicated on the package .
In the same pan where you browned the octopus, heat the bell pepper cream with a ladle of cooking water . Drain the spaghetti and finish cooking them in the pan .
Retrieve the toasted almonds and immediately serve the spaghetti with bell pepper cream, the octopus , and the almonds .
We recommend consuming the spaghetti with bell pepper cream and octopus immediately. You can prepare the bell pepper cream in advance and store it in the fridge.
You can also cook the octopus in a pressure cooker, it will take about 20 minutes from the whistle.

