name:
Spaghetti alla Nerano with Mussels
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)- thick whole wheat
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (already cleaned)
Zucchini: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to clean)
Provolone cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- of Monaco
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste- (for frying)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To the traditional creaminess that distinguishes spaghetti alla Nerano , we decided to add a fresh touch directly from the fruits of the sea to create a new first course: the appetizing spaghetti alla Nerano with mussels. You'll notice that the zucchini, with their crispness and slightly sweet flavor, blend harmoniously with the cheese, giving an enveloping creaminess. And let's not forget the tasty mollusks that, with their sea breeze aroma and succulent texture, make this new and flavorful version even more irresistible!
After trying spaghetti alla Nerano with mussels, also try these sea-flavored variations:

To prepare the spaghetti alla Nerano with mussels, start with the zucchini: after trimming them, slice them into rounds of a few millimeters and fry them in deep, hot oil until golden .
As you go, drain them on a tray trying to space them out , and set aside. Prepare the mussels: in a pan, heat a dash of oil with the garlic clove and parsley stems . Add the cleaned mussels .
Cover with a lid and occasionally shake the pan. Once they have opened , shell them .
Strain the cooking liquid and keep it warm . In the meantime, cook the spaghetti in plenty of salted water . Grate the cheeses .
In a large pan, put back the fried zucchini and splash them with the reserved mussel water . When the pasta is halfway cooked, drain it .
Transfer the spaghetti to the pan and finish cooking, if necessary, moistening with pasta water. At the end of cooking, turn off the heat and add the two grated cheeses , then season with the chopped parsley leaves .
Add the mussels and pepper, mix well and serve. The spaghetti alla Nerano with mussels is ready to be served !
We recommend consuming the spaghetti alla Nerano with mussels immediately.
Before salting, always be cautious, as the mussels might be very flavorful and the cheeses will contribute with their strong notes.

