name:
Spaghetti with Sea Urchins and Marinated Mantis Shrimp
ingredients:
Spaghettoni: 11.3oz(320 g)- thick
Squills (Mantis shrimps): 12.3oz(350 g)- to clean and very fresh
Sea urchins: 10- clean and very fresh
Butter: (80 g)
Lemons: 2
Wild fennel: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
The spaghetti with sea urchins and marinated mantis shrimp will tickle your craving for seafood first courses. In this recipe, we have maximized the unique flavor of these seafood delights: fresh sea urchins with their sweet and salty taste are paired with aromatic lemon-marinated mantis shrimp. A delicious mix of marine freshness to wrap with the spaghetti, which will best capture this seasoning. And to add an extra touch of flavor, we made a savory broth with the mantis shrimp shells to extract all the tasty juices of these crustaceans, making the spaghetti with sea urchins and marinated mantis shrimp even more appetizing!
Don't miss these other seafood first courses:

To prepare the spaghetti with sea urchins and marinated mantis shrimp, start by How to clean mantis shrimp : remove the shell by cutting along the back with scissors , extract the flesh , and set it aside .
Roughly chop the mantis shrimp flesh and season it with lemon zest, oil , and salt .
Add pepper and squeeze 2 tsp of lemon juice , mix, and set aside .
Sauté the shells in a pan over high heat with a drizzle of oil , then pour in a quart of water and let them simmer on very low heat for 30 minutes .
Clean the sea urchins by cutting them in half with scissors (keeping the mouth upwards) or, if you have it, with the appropriate tool. Extract the red flesh with a teaspoon and place it on paper towels to remove any remaining spines.
Transfer them to a small bowl and set aside; you will obtain about 0.7 oz of flesh . Once ready, strain the broth made with the shells into a saucepan with a sieve on top to remove the scraps .
Cook the spaghetti, leaving them 2 minutes before the time indicated on the package . Meanwhile, take the lemon zest , being careful not to take the white part, which would be bitter. In a pan, melt 3.5 tbsp of butter over very low heat with the lemon zest .
Cook over low heat, just for the time it takes for the pasta to cook, and then remove the zest . Drain the pasta directly into the pan and finish cooking it with the filtered mantis shrimp broth .
Once the pasta is cooked, turn off the heat and mix it with the sea urchins and mantis shrimp to flavor it .
Serve the pasta by adding more mantis shrimp broth , lemon zest to taste , and wild fennel. The spaghetti with sea urchins and marinated mantis shrimp are ready to be served !
Serve and consume immediately the spaghetti with sea urchins and marinated mantis shrimp.
Sea urchins can be fragile, so handle them with care during cleaning. Avoid applying too much pressure to prevent damaging the flesh or breaking the shell.

