name:
Spaghetti with mullet, almonds, and fennel
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 6.5oz(180 g)
Red mullet: 7.1oz(200 g)- to clean
Peeled almonds: 1.1oz(30 g)
Wild fennel: 1.8oz(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: ½glass
Lemon peel: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
Spaghetti with mullet, almonds, and fennel is a first course rich in flavor, a true ode to the tastes of land and sea. The main ingredients are simple and genuine, used optimally and without waste: the mullet, whose scraps are also used to create a flavorful broth, perfectly complement the crunchiness of toasted almonds and the scent and freshness of wild fennel. Let yourself be captured by the Mediterranean scents and flavors and try other appetizing variations like the Spaghettone with Mullet Ragù !
If you're looking for more recipes with mullet, also try:
To prepare spaghetti with mullet, almonds, and fennel, start by cleaning the fish. First, scale the mullets using the appropriate tool or the back of a knife. Cut off the side and dorsal fins .
Using a pair of scissors, cut open the belly of the fish up to the head and rinse under running water to remove the internal organs. Make a diagonal cut just behind the gills from the back to the previous belly cut. Score the tail and the dorsal part of the fish along the backbone to obtain the fillets . Repeat this for all the mullets. Place the heads and bones on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and dry them in an oven at 350°F for 15-20 minutes .
Place the mullet scraps in the oven along with the almonds , and remove them once they turn golden. Meanwhile, cut the mullet fillets first in half and then into cubes about 0.39 inches . Set aside.
Put the mullet scraps in a pot, cover them with cold water , and cook for 20 minutes or until the volume is reduced by 75%. Strain and set aside the broth . Slice the toasted almonds into thin slivers .
In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, add the garlic , and sauté for a few minutes. Add the mullet fillets and sauté over high heat for 2-3 minutes, then remove the garlic .
Deglaze with white wine , adjust the salt , and pepper .
Cook the spaghetti in salted boiling water . When there are 2 minutes left to finish cooking, transfer them to the pan , add the broth, and cook to completion .
Toss the spaghetti adding chopped wild fennel and a drizzle of oil . Plate the spaghetti .
Add the mullet sauce, toasted almonds , chopped fennel, and finish with grated lemon zest . The spaghetti with mullet, almonds, and fennel is ready to be served .
It is advisable to consume the spaghetti with mullet, almonds, and fennel immediately.
If you love spicy flavors, you can add chili pepper while cooking the mullet fillets. For excellent results, use the freshest mullet.

