name:
Spaghetti with shrimp, stracchino, and saffron
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Shrimp paste: 28 ½tbsp(400 g)
Stracchino cheese: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Saffron: 1bag
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: ½small glass
Whole milk: 3spoonfuls
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Green Peperoncino: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Are you craving a seafood-based main course that is both hearty and flavorful? Spaghetti with shrimp, stracchino, and saffron is the recipe for you! Thanks to the saffron, you will achieve a bold taste that pairs perfectly with the delicacy of these small crustaceans, and the stracchino will give the dish a special creaminess! Spaghetti is the perfect pasta shape to wrap this dressing, but you can also make this dish with homemade gnocchi or Farfalle (fresh pasta) ! Finish your delightful dinner with a delicious melon cheesecake, fresh and colorful!
After the spaghetti with shrimp, stracchino, and saffron, also try:

To prepare spaghetti with shrimp, stracchino, and saffron, first, take care of cleaning the shrimp. Put on a pair of latex gloves, then apply light pressure to remove the head , tail, and shell . Then using a toothpick, gently remove the black thread .
Continue this way for all the others, and when you've finished cleaning, rinse them quickly . Transfer them to a tray and use a sheet of paper towel to pat them dry and remove excess water . Now move on to the stracchino cream: pour it into a bowl ,
add the milk and work it with a fork until you get a creamy mixture . Then crush a garlic clove using the flat side of a knife .
Place a pot full of water on the stove, bring it to a boil, and then salt it for cooking the pasta. In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil and the freshly crushed garlic ; let it turn golden, then add the shrimp and sauté everything for half a minute over high heat . Then deglaze with white wine .
and when it has completely evaporated, add some chili powder , the stracchino cream , and the saffron .
Mix well and cook until the cheese has melted . Meanwhile, chop the parsley and cook the pasta .
Drain it al dente and transfer it into the pan with the sauce . Remove the garlic clove .
and toss the pasta with the sauce . At this point, plate and decorate with some parsley , and serve your spaghetti with shrimp, stracchino, and saffron .
It is recommended to consume the pasta immediately. Alternatively, it can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
If the sauce becomes too thick, add a couple of tablespoons of milk!

