name:
Spaghetti with zucchini cream, yellow cherry tomatoes, and marinated anchovies
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Zucchini: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Yellow cherry tomatoes: 3 ⅓cups(500 g)
Zucchini flowers: 3.5oz(100 g)
Anchovies: 8fillets- Cantabrian Sea marinade
Taggiasca olives: 2.8oz(80 g)- pitted
Garlic: 1clove
Mint: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Spaghetti with zucchini cream, yellow cherry tomatoes, and marinated anchovies are a tasty idea for spring menus. A first course wrapped in a delicious creamy sauce made from seasonal zucchini, with a smooth and velvety texture. The yellow cherry tomatoes add a touch of sweetness and color, while the Taggiasca olives offer a tasty salty contrast. The marinated anchovies with citrus oil, carefully placed on top of the spaghetti, will impart a special citrus note that blends harmoniously with the other ingredients. The fresh and aromatic scent of mint leaves completes the pasta, adding a freshness that enhances the Mediterranean flavors of spaghetti with zucchini cream, yellow cherry tomatoes, and marinated anchovies.
Try other variations of this creamy sauce:

To prepare the spaghetti with zucchini cream, yellow cherry tomatoes, and marinated anchovies, wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half . Wash and trim the zucchini , then cut them in half and then into quarters; finally, separate the green part from the white part, which is more watery .
Cut the green part into larger cubes and the white part into smaller cubes . Blanch the green cubes for 4-5 minutes in salted water (use a large pot because you'll cook the spaghetti there later).
Drain the zucchini into a pitcher , then add a little cooking water , a drizzle of oil , and salt.
Blend with an immersion blender to obtain a smooth cream. In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil with a clove of garlic , then add the white flesh of the zucchini . Cook for about 3 minutes.
Next, add the yellow cherry tomatoes and continue cooking for another 3 minutes. Also, add the Taggiasca olives and sauté everything together. Adjust the salt, remove the garlic , and turn off the heat.
Cook the pasta in abundant salted water , drain it into the pan with the vegetables, turn the heat back on, and mix well , adding cleaned zucchini blossoms, a little cooking water , and a drizzle of oil.
The pasta is ready: place the zucchini cream on the bottom of the plate, arrange a nest of spaghetti, complete with more cream, 2 marinated anchovy fillets with citrus oil , the broken mint , and a drizzle of oil. Serve the spaghetti with zucchini cream, yellow cherry tomatoes, and marinated anchovies immediately .
We recommend consuming the spaghetti with zucchini cream, yellow cherry tomatoes, and marinated anchovies immediately.
The zucchini cream can be prepared in advance and stored in the fridge.
Cook the pasta in the pot where you blanched the zucchini to intensify the flavors.
The green outer part of the zucchini contains less water, making it more suitable for boiling. Conversely, the white inner part contains more water, making it better suited for quick cooking like in a pan.
The cherry tomatoes should be sautéed briefly because they cook very quickly and tend to release water.

