name:
Octopus on Pea and Potato Cream
ingredients:
Octopus: 2.2lbs(1.2 kg)
Fine salt: to taste
Red pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste- raw, unfiltered
Oregano: to taste
Peas: 2.7cups(400 g)
Potatoes: 7.1oz(200 g)
Water: 0.42cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.8tbsp(40 g)- raw, unfiltered
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The octopus on pea and potato cream is a delicious appetizer, perfect to start a seafood dinner. A dish with simple flavors, but presented in a refined way, ideal to serve on many occasions, such as a romantic dinner or a lunch with friends. The octopus, cooked in water and then grilled in a pan, is really tasty, with a pleasant crust on the outside and its tentacles are very tender. Just like the grilled octopus on potato cream , this one is also placed on a thick and velvety cream, but in this case, it is enriched with peas that add sweetness and this spring-reminiscent color! The pink pepper will add a special touch to win over even the most refined palates! Let's discover together how to make this dish!
To prepare the octopus on pea and potato cream, first cook the octopus, submerging it in boiling salted water . Cover with a lid and cook for about 30-40 minutes until it is tender. Meanwhile, also cook the potatoes , starting with cold water. Cook them for about 30 minutes until they are soft when pricked with a fork.
Blanch the peas in boiling water for a few seconds, then drain them and plunge them into ice water . Peel some of them and set them aside for the final decoration.
Transfer the others to a tall and narrow container . As soon as the potatoes are cooked, peel them and slice them. Then add them to the peas .
Add water , salt , pepper, and oil .
Blend with an immersion blender and strain the mixture until you have a smooth cream .
As soon as the octopus is cooked, remove it from the water and cut the tentacles with a knife, keeping them whole . In a hot non-stick pan, pour a drizzle of oil and add the octopus tentacles inside .
Sauté the tentacles well on both sides, turning them with tongs halfway through cooking . Transfer them to a small tray, salt them , and cut them in half. Now place the pea cream on the bottom of a plate .
Place the octopus tentacles on top , decorate with the peas set aside and pink pepper . Serve the octopus warm or hot .
You can store both the octopus and the pea cream in the refrigerator for 2 days. We recommend assembling the dish at the moment.
If you prefer, you can garnish the dish with aromatic herbs such as thyme. The octopus can be grilled as we did or also barbecued.

