name:
Spaghetti with Octopus Puttanesca
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.25oz(320 g)
Octopus: 1.76lbs(800 g)- (already gutted)
Tomato purée: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1.3cups(200 g)
Black olives: ½cup(100 g)- pitted
Garlic: 1clove
Dry white wine: 0.6cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6tbsp(80 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste- to chop

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The great pasta classics are a pride of Italian cuisine and a true guarantee of success, but certain variations are just as good... such as the seafood carbonara , for instance, or the spaghetti with octopus puttanesca that we propose in this recipe! An equally enticing and flavorful first course but a bit more time-consuming to prepare compared to the original version since the octopus is first boiled and then added to the rest of the ingredients. Perfect for a Mediterranean-flavored menu, you can serve spaghetti with octopus puttanesca with a simple fish main course or with a tasty fry-up !
Also, try these first courses with octopus:
To prepare the spaghetti with octopus puttanesca, first rinse the octopus under running water . Bring a pot of water to a boil and dip the octopus tentacles twice so that they curl up , then immerse it completely and let it boil for 30 minutes .
Once cooked, drain the octopus and cool it under running water , then cut it into small pieces . Wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them into wedges . Put a pot of water on the stove to cook the pasta.
Pour the oil into a large pan, add the garlic clove and cherry tomatoes and sauté for 5 minutes, then add the octopus , stir and let everything season for another 3-4 minutes over medium-low heat.
At this point, remove the garlic clove and deglaze with white wine . When the alcohol has completely evaporated, season with salt and pepper and pour in the tomato puree . Cook gently for about 15-20 minutes .
Meanwhile, the water will have come to a boil, so salt it and drop in the spaghetti . A couple of minutes before the sauce finishes cooking, add the black olives and mix well, then turn off the heat .
Drain the spaghetti al dente and transfer them directly into the pan . Stir over medium heat to combine everything and garnish with chopped parsley . Your spaghetti with octopus puttanesca is ready to be served nice and hot !
The sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in an airtight container. If you used fresh octopus, you can also freeze it.
Use capers as well to give your octopus puttanesca an even more decisive flavor, or add chili pepper to the sauté for a spicy note.
You can also make the recipe with squid rings or shrimp as an alternative to octopus!

