name:
Spaghetti with clams, zucchini flowers, and saffron
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Zucchini flowers: 2cups(100 g)
Saffron: 0.1tsp(0.3 g)- (2 sachets of 0.15 each)
Garlic: 4cloves
White wine: 2oz(60 g)
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Coarse salt: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Note + 2 h to purge the clams

instructions:
Spaghetti with clams are a cornerstone of Italian cuisine, loved by everyone for their simplicity and genuineness. Today we offer you a tasty variant for the summer menu that we are sure will not disappoint even the purists: spaghetti with clams, zucchini flowers, and saffron, the ingredient that really makes the difference! It's the saffron, with its intense aroma and golden color, that enhances the taste of the dish and makes it unique, without betraying the balance of the original recipe. Just like in the classic recipe, the trick for a successful first course is the cooking liquid of the clams, which is used to finish cooking the pasta: the spaghetti will thus absorb all the flavor of the sea, which in this case is enriched by the presence of zucchini flowers and the unmistakable touch of saffron. Bring a welcome novelty to the table and let yourself be conquered by spaghetti with clams, zucchini flowers, and saffron!
Also try these variations:

To prepare the spaghetti with clams, zucchini flowers, and saffron, first purge the clams: place them in a bowl with water and add coarse salt , then leave them to soak for about 2 hours. Stir the bowl occasionally and change the water a couple of times until you no longer see any traces of sand. Meanwhile, clean the zucchini flowers: remove the stem and eliminate the inner pistil .
Cut them into strips . Once the clams are purged, rinse them under running water . Put a pot of water on the stove for the pasta and start cooking: in a large pan, heat the oil with 2 cloves of garlic and let it flavor for a few minutes.
Add the clams , raise the heat, and deglaze with white wine . Cover the pan with a lid and cook for a few minutes until they open.
Once ready , drain the clams in a colander lined with kitchen paper to filter better , and collect the cooking liquid in a bowl. Shell the clams, keeping some whole .
By now, the water for the pasta will have come to a boil, so salt it and cook the spaghetti al dente . While the pasta is cooking, take care of the zucchini flowers: in a pan, heat a little oil and two cloves of garlic, then add the zucchini flowers and cook for about 2 minutes. After 2 minutes, remove the garlic and set aside the flowers.
Take a ladle of cooking water , dissolve the saffron in it , and mix .
In the same pan used for the zucchini flowers, heat the clams' cooking liquid. When the pasta is al dente, drain it here and complete cooking. Then add the zucchini flowers and the clams .
Season with the saffron dissolved in water , mix well to flavor, and finish with fresh chopped parsley and black pepper to taste. Serve your spaghetti with clams, zucchini flowers, and saffron immediately !
It is recommended to consume spaghetti with clams, zucchini flowers, and saffron immediately.
If you can't find zucchini flowers, you can replace them with julienned zucchini sautéed in a pan: they will give the same vegetal and delicate touch to the dish.

