name:
Sandwich with Octopus and Burrata
ingredients:
Rolls: 2
Octopus: 0.7lb(300 g)- already cleaned
Burrata cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1.3cups(200 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Pine nuts: 1 ½tbsp(10 g)
Basil: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
The sandwich with octopus and burrata is a unique dish that is fresh and appetizing, a perfect combination of intense, delicate flavors and different textures. The crunchiness of the octopus matches perfectly with the creaminess of the burrata, roasted cherry tomatoes add a tangy note, and finally, the basil pesto completes the picture with its aromatic taste. This special seafood burger is not your usual sandwich but a true gourmet dish designed for those who love to experiment in the kitchen. Once you try our tantalizing recipe, have fun preparing other delicious sandwiches at home:

Place the octopus, already cleaned, in a pot , cover with a lid , and cook dry, over low heat, for 40 minutes. Meanwhile, place the cherry tomatoes in a baking dish, add some basil leaves and a few sprigs of marjoram .
Drizzle with a little olive oil , season with salt and pepper . Bake in a static oven at 374°F for an hour.
Now focus on preparing the basil pesto. Crush the garlic and place it in a mortar with the pine nuts , pound , and add the salt .
Add part of the basil and pound again . Add the parmesan .
Add the olive oil and pound incorporating all the basil gradually until you obtain a fresh basil pesto .
Once the octopus is cooked , cut it into pieces and place it in a pan with a drizzle of olive oil .
Add the marjoram and toast the octopus until it becomes crispy . It's time to assemble the sandwich, so cut it in half .
Spread the pesto on both parts , place the opened burrata and the octopus on the base.
Add the roasted cherry tomatoes and a tablespoon of their cooking oil . Close with the other half of the bread and the sandwich with octopus and burrata is ready to be devoured!
It is recommended to consume the sandwich with octopus and burrata immediately. Both the octopus and the cherry tomatoes, once cooked, can be stored in the fridge, in closed containers, for one day. The pesto, however, can be stored in the fridge for seven days, in a closed container, making sure to pour a little olive oil on the surface.
To get a head start, you can prepare the basil pesto, cherry tomatoes, and octopus in advance. At the right moment, you will only need to reheat the cherry tomatoes, toast the octopus, and assemble the sandwich.

