name:
Bell Pepper Gazpacho with Basmati and Octopus
ingredients:
Basmati rice: 1 ¾cup(320 g)
Octopus: 0.66lb(300 g)
Wild fennel: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Cluster tomatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1cup(150 g)
Red peppers: 2.67cups(400 g)
Celery: ½cup(100 g)
Red onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Lime juice: 1
White wine vinegar: 2tsp(10 g)
Basil: 6leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Would you like to try a delicious variation of the typical Andalusian gazpacho ? We have reimagined the recipe of the famous Spanish soup by creating a rich and tasty unique dish for true gourmets, celebrating Mediterranean flavors: bell pepper gazpacho with basmati and octopus. This tasty trio consists of roasted octopus tentacles, aromatic basmati rice stir-fried with fennel, and finally, by digging in with a spoon, you can savor a fresh vegetable gazpacho. The refined and appealing appearance of this composition is a promise of goodness!
Discover other gazpacho recipes to prepare at home:

Start by cooking the octopus in a pot of boiling water for 30 minutes or until tender when pierced with a fork. Wash and cut the celery and red peppers into pieces.
Do the same with the tomatoes , then clean and chop the onion . In a tall and wide pitcher (or a bowl), place the coarsely chopped vegetables and whole cherry tomatoes. Add the lime juice .
Pour in the oil and vinegar , salt, pepper, and basil .
Blend well with an immersion blender for a few minutes . Once the mixture is blended , strain it .
Set aside the gazpacho . Now cook the rice in salted boiling water for the time indicated on the package, then drain it .
Chop the fennel and thyme and add them to the rice, along with oil and pepper. Sauté the rice over high heat for a few minutes .
Set aside the rice . At this point, the octopus will be cooked , drain it .
Cut the tentacles . In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil and place the tentacles , grilling them well on both sides .
Plate by creating a central mound of basmati rice , then place two tentacles on top and finally pour the gazpacho around . A sprinkle of pepper and a drizzle of oil, the bell pepper gazpacho with basmati and octopus is ready to be served .
The bell pepper gazpacho with basmati and octopus can be stored for a couple of days at most in the refrigerator.
You can cook the octopus the day before and store it in the refrigerator already cut with the individual tentacles, as it will be easier to grill cold.
With leftover octopus, you can make a delicious risotto, or you can cut it into cubes, season it with oil, salt, lemon, and parsley, and use it to top bruschetta.

