name:
Toasted octopus with bean hummus and tzatziki sauce
ingredients:
Octopus: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (already cleaned)
Garlic: 1clove
Chives: to taste
Sweet Paprika: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Dried cannellini beans: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Tahini: 2spoonfuls
Lemon juice: ½
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Greek yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Cucumbers: 1
Mint: 3sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + soaking time for the beans (overnight)

instructions:
The flavors of the land and sea blend in a recipe that's different from the usual, perfect for impressing: toasted octopus with bean hummus and tzatziki sauce! A bed of legume cream welcomes tender octopus tentacles pan-seared with a delicious crust, with the addition of a fresh and aromatic note given by the tzatziki . Some of the cannellini beans used for the hummus are also left whole and seasoned with a pinch of paprika for an extra spicy touch. Tasty and original, toasted octopus with bean hummus and tzatziki sauce is ideal to serve both as a main course or as an appetizer in smaller portions.
Don't miss these octopus recipes too:

To prepare the toasted octopus with bean hummus and tzatziki sauce, first soak the dry cannellini beans overnight. After soaking, drain them and transfer them to a pot, cover with cold water, and cook for an hour and a half with the addition of a bay leaf . Meanwhile, bring another pot filled with water to a boil and dip the octopus three times holding it by the head to curl the tentacles . Then fully submerge the octopus in boiling water and cook with the lid on for 40 minutes .
Once the beans are cooked, drain them and transfer three quarters into a blender, then add tahini , lemon juice, oil , and salt. Blend to obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream .
Set the hummus aside and place the remaining beans in a saucepan, then season with oil , salt, and paprika . Turn on the heat and stir for a few minutes , then set aside.
For the tzatziki sauce: peel the cucumbers and cut them into small cubes , then finely chop the mint .
Combine the cucumbers and mint in a bowl , then lightly salt the Greek yogurt and mix it in the bowl .
At this point, the octopus will be cooked, so drain it and transfer it to a cutting board, then separate the tentacles with a knife . In a pan, heat the oil with a garlic clove .
Place the octopus tentacles in the pan and sear them on both sides for a few minutes until they are golden and crispy . Finally, finely chop the chives .
You're ready to plate: spread the bean hummus on the plate , then add the paprika beans and the octopus tentacles .
Garnish with the tzatziki sauce , chives , and a light dusting of paprika . Drizzle with a little oil and serve your toasted octopus with bean hummus and tzatziki sauce!
It is recommended to consume the toasted octopus with bean hummus and tzatziki sauce immediately.
You can prepare the hummus in advance and store it in the refrigerator for 3-4 days in an airtight jar covered with a layer of oil.
You can experiment with other variations of this dish by making different versions of hummus… for example, try our pea hummus recipe!

