name:
Octopus in Pressure Cooker
ingredients:
Octopus: 4.4lbs(1.5 kg)
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
Onions: 1
Parsley: 3sprigs
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tbsp(30 g)
Lemon juice: 1
Parsley: 1bunch
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note For this recipe, a 6L pressure cooker is used

instructions:
Octopus salad is one of the most appreciated seafood appetizers of Italian cuisine. How to cook octopus in a pressure cooker? Today we show you how simple it is to prepare, how long it should cook, and how it can be easily seasoned. First, to add flavor, we added the vegetables for a classic sauté in the pressure cooker and the right amount of water that will allow the octopus to cook and become very tender. Cooking in the pressure cooker is similar to steaming; it will keep all the flavors intact, and since it cooks at a higher pressure, the cooking time will be significantly reduced compared to the traditional recipe. In just 20 minutes from the moment the pressure cooker whistles, your octopus will be ready! According to tradition, just let it cool down inside the water before cutting it and seasoning it with our delicious citronette! Octopus in a pressure cooker is easy to make, and with our steps, you'll easily achieve a dish that's a real treat, perfect for any occasion!
Discover other pressure cooker recipes:

To prepare the octopus in a pressure cooker, first peel the onion. Then cut it into pieces, along with the carrots and celery . Place the vegetables in the 6L pressure cooker and add the parsley . Then pour in the water .
Place the octopus inside and close the pot with the special lid . Turn the heat to medium-high. As soon as you hear the whistle, lower the heat slightly so it's medium and cook the octopus for 20 minutes. After this time, turn off the heat and let the steam escape (always being careful not to burn yourself) before opening the lid . Now let the octopus cool in the cooking water.
Meanwhile, prepare the citronette for the dressing. First, finely chop the parsley . In a small bowl, squeeze the lemon juice and add salt and pepper.
Pour in the oil and mix to create an emulsion . When the octopus is warm, transfer it to a cutting board. Remove the innards from the head, eyes, and beak. Then cut it into chunks . Transfer it to a bowl and season it with the emulsion .
Mix well , transfer to plates, decorate with chopped parsley , add a sprinkle of black pepper, and serve .
It keeps in the refrigerator closed for 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
Add a teaspoon of mustard to the citronette for a tastier dressing! If you prefer to use frozen octopus, simply defrost it before proceeding with the recipe!
How do you use a pressure cooker?
It's important never to overfill the pressure cooker. Usually, a mark inside the pot indicates the level not to exceed: typically 2/3. For foods that expand, like rice, it is advisable never to exceed half. Before starting cooking, ensure that the lid is correctly closed and that the valve is shut. Once the pot reaches pressure, you can lower the heat to make the steam release from the valve as steady and "light" as possible. Keeping it at a minimum will also save energy.
How to open a pressure cooker?
Never open the lid while steam is escaping from the valve. After cooking, you must release all the steam by lifting or turning the valve. As soon as the pot is no longer under pressure, you can open the lid. Be careful of the steam jet during the "decompression".
Why cook with a pressure cooker?
The pressure cooker allows food to be cooked at a higher pressure, thus reducing cooking times.
How much water in the pressure cooker?
The amount of water should be adjusted based on the cooking times. It's important that it does not completely dry up during cooking.
What to cook in a pressure cooker?
You can cook potatoes, roasts, legumes, vegetables, and broths.
How long do foods cook in a pressure cooker?
Each preparation has different cooking times, compared to traditional recipes, using a pressure cooker cuts cooking times by about half.

