name:
Octopus Meatballs
ingredients:
Octopus: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (already cleaned)
Lemons: 1- (juice and zest)
Parsley: 1tuft
Garlic: 2cloves
Ground black pepper: 1tsp
Lemons: 1
Eggs: 2- medium
Panko: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Vegetable oil: to taste- (for frying)
Sunflower seed oil: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Taggiasca olives: 1.8oz(50 g)- (in oil)
Capers in oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Lemon juice: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 2 h 30 min
Makes: 14 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time of the meatballs in the fridge

instructions:
Craving for an appetizing seafood appetizer different from the usual fried snacks or a simple "octopus and potatoes" dish? Delight yourself with octopus meatballs! They are as tasty as fish meatballs but even easier to make: just tender boiled octopus meat and a crispy panko coating that makes them incredibly crunchy and appetizing. To make these little fried Meatballs with Turnip Greens even more enticing is the accompanying sauce: an extraordinary mayonnaise made from the octopus cooking water. A creamy and velvety sauce, special with the addition of olives and capers, but above all... egg-free! Discover all the goodness of octopus meatballs: one leads to another!
Looking for other tasty octopus recipes?

To make the octopus meatballs, start by cooking the octopus (already cleaned): place it in a large pot immersed in cold water , add a scant handful of coarse salt , black peppercorns, crushed garlic cloves, part of the parsley bunch, lemon zest, and half of the lemon . Count 2 hours from when the water starts boiling.
At the end of cooking, the octopus should be very tender and should "fall apart" easily. Once cooked, drain it (reserving the cooking water for the mayonnaise); then cut the octopus into pieces while still warm . Pour everything into a blender jug and add the chopped parsley .
Grate the lemon zest , season with salt and pepper to taste, then pour in a little of the octopus cooking water . Blend everything. While blending, add a drizzle of oil. You should get a soft but compact mixture .
From this mixture, you can form meatballs; you will get about 10-12 depending on the size . Let them firm up in the fridge for about 15 minutes. In the meantime, work on the mayonnaise: filter the octopus cooking water, you will need 2 cups. Pour it into a saucepan and reduce over low heat until 1/2 cup of liquid remains, then let it cool. Transfer the concentrated octopus water to a tall container and squeeze in the lemon juice, you'll need about 1 tablespoon .
Start the immersion blender and gradually add the vegetable oil while you continue to blend . The mayonnaise you will get will be smooth and velvety. Add the previously drained and chopped olives and capers and mix.
Take the meatballs from the fridge and heat the vegetable oil to a temperature of 350°F. Then coat the meatballs: pass each one first in the flour , then in the beaten eggs , and finally in the panko .
Fry a few meatballs at a time, for 3-5 minutes or until golden brown , drain them on paper towels. Then salt immediately to taste. Serve the octopus meatballs accompanied by their mayonnaise !
We recommend preparing the meatballs and consuming them on the same day to maintain the crispness.
The mayonnaise can be stored in the fridge for 1-2 days.
You can flavor the octopus water with bay leaves instead of parsley if you prefer.
Instead of panko, you can use common breadcrumbs or even crumbed breadsticks.

