name:
Octopus Stew with Herbs
ingredients:
Octopus: 1.75lbs(800 g)- already cleaned
Swiss chard: 8cups(250 g)
White onions: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
White wine: 0.67cup(150 g)
Capers: 0.75oz(20 g)- desalted
Fresh chili pepper: 1- small
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
For many, stew is just about meat: the quintessential Sunday dish. Today we offer you a seafood version, equally tasty and delicious: octopus stew with herbs. A delightful combination of the plump and firm flesh of the octopus along with the mix of onions and herbs that will serve as a tasty side dish. This rich and flavorful main course will surely impress your guests with its bold taste. Try sharing this octopus stew with herbs and onions with them and let us know if they liked it!
To prepare the octopus stew, boil water in a tall pot (this will be used to cook the octopus). In the meantime, trim and thinly slice the onion , then clean and chop the herbs . Move to the stove and heat a drizzle of oil in a saucepan along with the crushed fresh chili pepper .
Throw in the onion and let it simmer over low heat for 5 minutes, stirring . Meanwhile, you can boil the octopus in the boiling water , letting it cook for 5 minutes. Meanwhile, also add the herbs to the pan .
and stir occasionally to let them wilt . After the time is up, drain the octopus, without discarding the cooking water , and coarsely chop it .
At this point, add the desalted capers and the pieces of octopus . Turn up the heat and deglaze with white wine .
As soon as the alcohol has evaporated, adjust the salt and pour in the octopus cooking water until it is covered . Let it cook on low heat for about 60 minutes. During this time, it's normal for the cooking water to evaporate, but remember to stir occasionally and make sure the octopus doesn't stick to the bottom . Your octopus stew with herbs and onions is ready, plate it, and serve with a drizzle of oil .
The octopus stew with herbs and onions can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you want, you can add potatoes to your octopus stew with herbs to make the dish richer.
You can add tomato paste to give the dish an extra touch.

