name:
Tuna in Pistachio Crust
ingredients:
Tuna: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Ground pistachio: 1.67cups(200 g)
Dijon mustard: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Frozen peas: 1 ¼cup(180 g)
Mint: 6leaves
Water: to taste
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The tuna in pistachio crust is a refined main course, yet simple and quick to prepare... a choice guaranteed to succeed! The crunchiness of the pistachio crumbs envelops the tuna which is briefly seared in a pan, leaving a tender and juicy pink center inside. Completing the dish and the play of textures is a velvety pea cream flavored with mint, which enhances the fish's flavor without overpowering it, while also adding a touch of color. Perfect for impressing, tuna in pistachio crust is a sophisticated dish that you can also serve for a special family dinner.
Also discover these variants:

To prepare the tuna in pistachio crust, first boil the peas in water , add the mint leaves and blanch for about a minute. Drain them into a bowl of ice water . This will stop the cooking and keep the color vibrant.
Transfer the peas into a jug, add a little water , oil , and a pinch of salt. Blend with an immersion mixer until you obtain a smooth sauce .
Now pour the pistachio crumbs into a stainless steel blade mixer and blend to make them even finer, then transfer them to a baking dish . Take the tuna steaks, about 1.5 inches thick, and brush them with mustard on all sides .
Coat the tuna fillets in pistachio crumbs , covering the entire surface well. In a pan, heat a little oil and sear each side of the tuna for 2-3 minutes at most , including the edges . It should be cooked on the outside with a pink center.
Cut the tuna into slices about 0.4 inches thick . Spread a tablespoon of pea cream on the plate; if you wish to create a more scenic effect, give a hit to the cream with the back of a spoon to create splashes that decorate the plate . Lay the fillet on the sauce and serve your tuna in pistachio crust immediately !
Tuna in pistachio crust should be consumed as soon as it is ready.
The pea cream can be stored in the fridge, in a closed container, for 2-3 days.
If you don't like mustard, you can replace it with a thin layer of honey.
Besides pistachios, you can use chopped almonds, hazelnuts, or sesame seeds for the coating.
If you wish, you can replace the pea cream with an avocado sauce, a zucchini velouté, or a Greek yogurt and herb base for a fresher touch!
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not fully cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at -0.4°F in a home freezer marked with 3 or more stars, according to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

