name:
Chirashi Sushi
ingredients:
Rice: 1 ½cup(300 g)- round grain
Salmon: 7oz(200 g)
Tuna: 7.1oz(200 g)
Swordfish: 7oz(200 g)
Shrimps: 12- shrimp
Rice vinegar: 0.7tsp(10 ml)
Sake: 2tsp(10 ml)
Sugar: 2spoonfuls
Avocado: ½
Water: 2cups(500 ml)
Fine salt: ½tsp
Soy sauce: to taste
Wasabi: to taste
Pickled ginger: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Chirashi is one of the traditional preparations of Japanese sushi; the base is always rice cooked by absorption with the classic reduction of vinegar-wine-sugar and salt that gives the rice its typical sweetish flavor and complements raw fish wonderfully. In chirashi, fleshy fish such as tuna, salmon, Mackerel with Orange , swordfish, amberjack, and shrimp are usually used and served over the rice; for richer versions, there is also the presence of omelets wrapped with nori seaweed and octopus.
To prepare chirashi, make sure you have purchased frozen fish; as a precaution, freeze it for at least 96 hours at 0°F and then thaw to use in the recipe. First, weigh the rice and wash it very well under cold running water until the water remains completely clear; now let the rice rest in the colander for 15 minutes. Pour the rice into a pot with 2 cups (500ml) of water and bring to a boil, reduce the heat to low once it boils and cook until all the liquid has evaporated.
In the meantime, prepare the reduction by combining rice vinegar, rice wine (mirin) or sake, sugar, and salt in a small pot and cook until the sugar and salt have dissolved ; set aside.
Transfer the cooked rice into a wide and shallow tray because now it's time to let it cool: pour the reduction over the back of a wooden spoon or spatula, spreading it well over all the rice, and helping with the spoon spread the rice so it gets as much air as possible,
it would also be ideal to fan it with a fan or another tool that can create air, so the vinegar evaporates quickly and the rice cools gently. This is a crucial step for the successful preparation of the rice, which will tend to remain sticky, but that's how it should be. Proceed to cut slices from the salmon fillet , tuna ,
and swordfish trying to make them all the same size; also cut very thin slices of avocado . Then place the rice into the 4 individual bowls
and on top, to your liking, arrange the slices of fish (16-17) and avocado; finally, add the very fresh shrimp. Serve accompanied by soy sauce, wasabi, and pickled ginger .
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at 0°F in a home freezer marked with 3 or more stars, according to the Health Ministry's guidelines.

