name:
Dulce de leche
ingredients:
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Vanilla bean: ½berry
Baking soda: ½tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 2 h
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Dulce de leche, meaning sweet milk, is a sweet cream made from milk and sugar typical of South American countries. Although dulce de leche is now widespread throughout America to the point that it is used to flavor ice cream or coffee. Dulce de leche resembles the more well-known caramel sauce and can be used to accompany cakes, cookies, and ice creams or to fill the famous churros ! Preparing dulce de leche is not complex, but it requires a bit of patience as it has a long cooking time of at least a couple of hours. There are many legends regarding the invention of dulce de leche; one of the most well-known tells that this sweet was born by chance in the 19th century in Argentina, where the maid of a famous politician of the time, forgetting a pot with milk and sugar on the fire, created dulce de leche. The sweet created by chance was greatly appreciated, and its preparation spread throughout the country.
If you love Latin flavors, don't miss these typical recipes from the South American continent:

To make dulce de leche, start by cutting the vanilla bean lengthwise with a knife to extract the inner seeds . Put a saucepan with a thick or non-stick bottom on the fire, pour in the milk and add the sugar , heat over low heat and stir with a wooden spoon, then add the vanilla bean and its seeds
and the half teaspoon of baking soda , stir again. Continue cooking until the milk reaches a boil , then stir again until the obtained cream has darkened .
At this point, remove the vanilla bean with a kitchen tong and continue to cook the dulce de leche over medium heat until you achieve a viscous consistency similar to caramel sauce . Keep in mind that the longer you cook it, the harder the dulce de leche will be. Once ready, put it in a small bowl and serve it to accompany ice cream or semifreddo or to prepare the famous Argentine Alfajores . Be careful because dulce de leche hardens very quickly when cooling, but just put it back on the fire for a few moments to obtain a more fluid consistency.
Dulce de leche can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days; before serving, it needs to be softened at room temperature. Alternatively, it can be preserved in vacuum in special sterilized jars with airtight closure.
Fill cookies, delicious biscuit dough rolls with dulce de leche, and also use it to garnish cakes and semifreddos.

