name:
Nua Cake with Figs
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ⅓cups(290 g)
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Sunflower seed oil: ½cup(120 g)
Milk: 0.4cup(90 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp(10 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Figs: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Fig jam: 0.6cup(200 g)
Salt: 1pinch
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time (20 minutes)

instructions:
The Nua cake with figs is an easy-to-make and delicious dessert, which surprises with its softness and unique flavor. Unlike the classic Nua Cake , the main protagonists of the recipe are the figs that are embedded in a soft and delicate base. The natural sweetness of the figs blends with the creaminess of the cake, creating a perfect balance between texture and taste. To complete the picture, there is the fig jam that creates the typical effect of this dessert! Discover how to make this very simple cake, perfect to be served on various occasions, from breakfast to snack time, up to a refined dessert to conclude a special dinner.
If you're looking for other fig cakes recipes, don't miss:
To prepare the Nua cake with figs, first crack the eggs into a bowl, add a pinch of salt , the sugar and whisk with an electric mixer .
Add the vanilla extract , sunflower oil , and milk . Mix to combine the ingredients.
Then add the flour , and the baking powder previously sifted. Mix with a hand whisk until you obtain a smooth and lump-free batter.
Peel the figs , cut them into pieces , and add them to the batter .
Incorporate them by mixing well . Pour the batter into a 20 cm (8-inch) springform pan, lined with parchment paper , and level the surface .
Add the fig jam to the surface , then bake in a preheated convection oven at 350°F for about 60 minutes. Once baked, let it cool in the turned-off oven with the door ajar for 5 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool completely. Decorate with powdered sugar . The Nua cake with figs is ready to be enjoyed .
The Nua cake with figs can be stored at room temperature for 2-3 days under a glass dome. Alternatively, it can be frozen.
You can serve the cake accompanied by a scoop of vanilla ice cream or a light whipped cream.

