name:
Sauteed Prawns with Figs and Mint
ingredients:
Prawns: 16
Whisky: ½glass- (Southern Comfort)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Tabasco®: to taste
Mint: to taste
Figs: 4
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Orange juice: 1
Greek yogurt: ¼cup(50 g)
Carasau bread: 2.1oz(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Sauteed prawns with figs and mint is a surprising appetizer. With this recipe, you will bring a mix of flavors to the table that hardly goes unnoticed. The delicacy and juiciness of the prawns intertwine with the sweetness of the figs, while the mint adds an aromatic touch that makes the dish fresh and lively. Lastly, the carasau bread gives crispiness, which cannot be missing in a well-designed dish. The scenic aspect is also taken care of: the vibrant colors of the figs alternate with the pink of the prawns and the bright green of the mint. You can propose an appetizer like this for an elegant dinner, but also as a starter for a more informal menu when you want to treat yourself to something different from the usual. Sauteed prawns with figs and mint are simple to prepare but sophisticated in taste, it's the perfect appetizer for those who love Mediterranean flavors with a touch of originality.
If you are looking for more recipes with prawns, here’s a small selection:
To prepare the sauteed prawns with figs and mint, first focus on the cleaning of the prawns . Detach the head from the body , then remove the legs and shell , leaving the tail intact. Extract the intestine located on the back of the crustaceans by slightly incising them and using a toothpick .
Place them in a bowl, also pour in the whiskey , and set aside. Meanwhile, cut the figs into quarters . In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil and add the prawns .
Season with salt , pepper , and a few drops of Tabasco . Cook over medium heat for 3-4 minutes.
Transfer the prawns to a bowl, add a few mint leaves , stir, and cover with a lid so they remain soft. In the same pan where you cooked the prawns, melt the butter and then add the figs . Cook them over medium heat for 3-4 minutes until they caramelize, being careful not to break them when you turn them. The cooking time will largely depend on the ripeness of the fruits; the riper they are, the less time it will take to caramelize them.
At this point, add the orange juice to deglaze the pan . For plating, smear the bottom of a plate with Greek yogurt and place 4 prawns on top
Continue with 4 fig wedges, a few mint leaves, the carasau bread , and complete with 1 tablespoon of the figs' cooking sauce . Your sauteed prawns with figs and mint are ready to be served !
It would be best to consume immediately, once ready, the sauteed prawns with figs and mint; this way, the texture will remain intact. Alternatively, you can store them in the fridge, in a closed container, for up to 1 day.
Instead of figs, you can use peaches or apricots. If you like, you can add a few drops of soy sauce to the figs' cooking sauce.

