name:
Fig and Gorgonzola Carpaccio
ingredients:
Figs: 8- large
Gorgonzola cheese: 7oz(200 g)- sweet
Walnut kernels: 1cup(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ⅓cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Spelt flour: 2cups(250 g)
White wine: 2.8oz(80 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Thyme: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Coarse salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
We are sure that by saying carpaccio, it will immediately bring to mind the most famous and beloved: the Carpaccio alla Cipriani from beautiful Venice. Maybe you tasted it this summer along with other tasty variations like Octopus Carpaccio or eggplant . But the one we suggest today is even more special! It is fig and gorgonzola carpaccio that contrasts the oldest and most pleasing of combinations, cheese and fruit. They seem to have so little to say to each other and yet are so complementary. A play of aromas, flavor, and texture in our fig and gorgonzola carpaccio that will surprise your palate with bursts of goodness. It is perfect for a cold dinner perhaps alongside other equally tasty variations, like pineapple and speck or Salmon carpaccio with lime guacamole . In short, let the carpaccio mania begin for everyone!
To prepare the fig and gorgonzola carpaccio, we start with the crackers: in a bowl, mix the flour with table salt and a few thyme leaves . Add the butter and blend it into the mixture by crumbling it with your hands ,
then pour in the wine and oil and continue to work the mixture until it is compact .
Roll it out on a lightly floured work surface using a rolling pin to get a sheet 11x9 inches and 1/6 inch thick , prick with a fork or the appropriate tool and cut out about 32 crackers of 1.5 inches to place on a baking sheet with parchment paper .
In a bowl, mix a few rosemary needles, coarse salt , and poppy, sunflower, and flax seeds . Mix
and then wet the surface of the crackers with a little water before adding the mix just made . They are ready for baking ,
which takes place in a static oven, already preheated to 340°F, for about 25 minutes . While the crackers cool, take care of the rest. Briefly toast the walnuts in a pan; and set aside . In the immersion blender cup, pour the gorgonzola cut into coarse pieces, along with the cream ,
salt, pepper, and nutmeg . Turn on the blades and pour the oil in a stream , obtaining a smooth and homogeneous sauce .
Wash the figs under a gentle stream of fresh water, dry them, and then slice them lengthwise . Arrange on serving plates and drizzle with the gorgonzola sauce . Finally, accompany the fig and gorgonzola carpaccio with the crackers and some walnuts .
Once the fig and gorgonzola carpaccio is ready, it is recommended to consume it immediately.
Want to try something very tantalizing? Try accompanying the dish with some dried red fruits, such as raspberries or strawberries, the acidity will pair excellently with the fig and gorgonzola carpaccio.

