name:
Fig Sandwich
ingredients:
Bread loaves: 2
Figs: 3
Speck: 6slices
Squacquerone cheese: 5oz(140 g)
Lamb's lettuce: 1cup(30 g)
Wildflower honey: 2tbsp(30 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: 1tbsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Tabasco®: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Figs and prosciutto: a well-established combination, a simple pairing that sees the sweet taste of these summer fruits meet the savory flavor of prosciutto. A successful and appreciated mix that we enjoyed in the recipe for roses with prosciutto and figs and in the bruschettas, which we wanted to replicate here with some variations in the fig sandwich recipe. An enticing sandwich that in a single bite will let you experience the crunchiness of the Soft Loaves , the freshness of the cheese, the smoky taste of speck, and finally the caramelized touch of figs. A unique experience for the palate, a simple but rich recipe of flavors that will allow you to present a different kind of sandwich at the table!
To make the fig sandwich, first wash and dry the fruits, then cut them in half (1-2) and place them on a tray lined with parchment paper, with the cut side facing up .
Sprinkle the surface of the figs with a teaspoon of honey , then grill them in the oven at 464°F for 3-4 minutes to caramelize and brown the surface . Then sprinkle chopped hazelnuts on top of the figs and set aside.
Cut the rolls in half (7-8), drizzle them with a little olive oil
and then toast them on a very hot grill on both sides (10-11). Set aside the rolls and place the speck on the same grill .
Cook the speck for just a few moments , just enough to make it crispy, and then transfer it to a plate . Now take care of the salad: wash and dry the lamb's lettuce and pour it into a bowl, season with olive oil ,
a few drops of Tabasco , a pinch of pepper , and salt .
Everything is ready to assemble the sandwiches: take a slice of toasted bread, spread cheese on top , then place the lamb's lettuce leaves and the grilled speck slices ;
finally, add the caramelized figs and drizzle with a few drops of Tabasco . Close the sandwich with the other slice of bread and serve immediately !
We recommend consuming the fig sandwich immediately.
For stuffing the sandwich, instead of squacquerone, you can use stracchino or burrata.

