name:
Savory Fig Tart
ingredients:
Butter: 4.4oz(125 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 1.8oz(52 g)- (approximately 1 medium)
Coarse salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Cream cheese: ¾cup(200 g)
Robiola cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Figs: 3.5oz(100 g)- fioroni (about 2 medium)
Prosciutto crudo: 2slices
Whole cane sugar: 1tbsp(15 g)
Pecans: 5- already shelled
Lemon peel: ½
Whole milk: 1spoonful
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: High
Note + 1 hour of dough resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
Shall we play a game? If we mentioned shortcrust pastry and cream , what would you think of if not a dessert? Well, this time we're not talking about desserts but savory tarts! We've already experimented with an elegant Savory cream tart , and today we invite you to try another delicacy that draws inspiration from the world of desserts, reimagined as an appetizer: an original savory fig tart, perfect for a delightful end to summer. Ideally, use September figs, which are sweeter, more fragrant at the end of the season, and their nectar is so inviting that it's hard to resist. The only way then is to give in to temptation by preparing this delicious savory fig tart that will surely win you over! Prepare today's recipe with us, and this time it's not just for fun!
To prepare the savory fig tart, start with the Savory shortcrust pastry : add the flour, cold butter from the refrigerator , coarse salt , and finally the egg into the mixer.
Turn on the mixer to combine everything , then transfer the mixture to a pastry board and form it into a dough ball. Wrap it in plastic wrap and leave it in the fridge for at least an hour .
After resting, take out the dough and roll it out on a lightly floured pastry board using a rolling pin until you form a rectangle about 1/4 inch thick. Line a 13.75x4.5 inch rectangular mold by wrapping and unrolling the dough directly into the mold . Adhere the savory dough well and then trim the excess dough with a knife .
Prick the base with the tines of a fork and cover it with a crumpled sheet of parchment paper. Fill the mold with ceramic balls or dried beans, and proceed with How to do blind baking : bake in a preheated static oven at 400°F for 15 minutes , then remove both the paper and the balls and bake for another 10 minutes plus another 2-3 minutes in grill mode .
In this way, the base of the savory tart will be evenly golden and cooked inside . Let it cool and prepare the caramelized figs. After washing and drying them, cut them into slices about 1/4 to 1/3 inch thick . Arrange the fig slices on a baking tray with parchment paper and scent with zest from half a lemon .
Sprinkle with raw cane sugar and bake them in grill mode at 465°F for about 3-4 minutes or until they are lightly golden and still firm .
Now prepare the cream: in a bowl, combine the fresh spreadable cheese and the robiola , dilute with a tablespoon of milk , and mix until you get a uniform mixture .
Fill the now-cooled tart with the cheese cream, taking care to distribute it with irregular spoonfuls to give some movement . Garnish with the figs, overlapping some slices , add the pecans, some whole and some chopped .
Season with a pinch of pepper . Complete the dish by forming two roses with the prosciutto and your fig tart is ready: enjoy your meal !
The savory fig tart can be stored for a couple of days in the fridge, but it is best consumed as soon as possible because it may lose its consistency. Freezing is not recommended. The shortcrust dough can be prepared in advance or even frozen.
The savory tart can be further enriched by flavoring the cheese cream with aromatic herbs such as fennel or thyme. If you can't find pecans, you can easily use regular walnuts. Instead of savory shortcrust pastry, you can substitute with puff pastry or phyllo, but the consistency might not be substantial enough for the cheese cream.

