name:
Whole Wheat Crepes with Figs and Pears
ingredients:
Whole grain flour: 0.7cup(90 g)
Whole milk: ¾cup(170 g)- at room temperature
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Eggs: 2.1oz(60 g)- (about 1)
Fine salt: to taste
Figs: 2 ½cups(400 g)
Bartlett pears: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Water: 0.375cup(100 g)
Brown sugar: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes of batter resting time

instructions:
We all know the famous French crepes , which with their neutral flavor can be filled with tantalizing sweet and savory fillings. Here we offer you one of the many variations, with a filling of deliciously caramelized seasonal fruit. Among the September fruits, we have chosen the sweetest with soft pulp: juicy pears with straw tones and small, fleshy amaranth-colored figs, a concentrate of goodness perfect to enjoy as a snack or as a dessert at the end of a meal. Good and wholesome, also thanks to the choice of using whole wheat flour in the dough, these crepes with figs and pears will be the right compromise for those seeking a healthy sweetness!
To make the whole wheat crepes with figs and pears, first, prepare the crepe batter: beat the egg in a small bowl and melt the butter in another; in a separate large bowl, place the whole wheat flour and salt , then pour in the milk at room temperature in a thin stream, stirring with the whisk to prevent lumps.
Once the milk is absorbed, add the beaten egg and melted butter at room temperature and continue whisking to obtain a homogeneous batter. Cover with plastic wrap and leave in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. For more guidance, you can consult the Whole Wheat Crepes recipe on our site.
Heat a crepe maker or a small non-stick pan about 8 inches in diameter, grease the pan with a little butter , and pour a ladle of batter . Tilt the pan to distribute the mixture evenly and cook for 3 minutes on one side
and 2 minutes on the other . As they are ready, place them on a plate . Now wash the figs and cut them in half .
Cut the pears into wedges and peel them . Place the pear wedges in a saucepan, add the brown sugar
and half the amount of water , let the pears brown for 5 minutes or until they take color. At this point, add the figs and the remaining water ,
cover with the lid and let cook for 5 minutes, then remove the lid and allow the cooking liquid to thicken. The caramelized fruit is ready , now you can fill the crepes: take a crepe, place the fruit on half of its surface and cover with the cooking liquid ,
then fold the other half of the crepe over the filling and garnish with powdered sugar . Serve the whole wheat crepes with figs and pears immediately !
The whole wheat crepes can be stored unfrosted in the refrigerator for a couple of days, covered with plastic wrap to prevent them from drying out. The crepe batter can be left to rest in the refrigerator for up to 12 hours, covered with plastic wrap. The crepes can be frozen after cooking: just stack them one on top of the other, placing a sheet of parchment paper between each crepe, and finally seal the whole thing with plastic wrap. Before using the desired amount, simply let them thaw and then fill them.
Adding walnuts and hazelnuts to the filling will give a pleasant crunchy note, while a splash of brandy, to be flamed during cooking, will make the filling even more fragrant and aromatic.

