name:
Stuffed Figs
ingredients:
Figs: 4- black
Prosciutto crudo: 2.8oz(80 g)- (4 slices of 0.7 oz each)
Robiola cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Lime peel: 1
Melissa: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Sweet and fleshy, figs are the most beloved fruits of summer. Delicious on their own when freshly picked, but when paired with other tempting ingredients, they become a delicacy that will enrich any course: for the appetizer, we present here a variation of the classic ham rosettes on figs : stuffed figs, made with the black, sugary, and dry variety, which allows for perfect wedges to be filled with the most tantalizing delights. We opted for the evergreen combination with cured ham enriched by the velvety touch of creamy aromatic robiola, but if you prefer a vegetarian version you can choose to make a tasty crostini with figs with ricotta cream. Take advantage of the warmer season to make your summer appetizers even more appetizing with these delicious stuffed figs!
To make the stuffed figs, first gently wash and dry the figs. In a bowl, mix the robiola with the lemon balm leaves , the 2 teaspoons of olive oil , the lime zest , salt, and pepper
and work everything with a spoon until you obtain a smooth cream. Transfer the cream into a piping bag . Now cut a cross with the knife on the upper part of the figs to divide them into four parts
and gently open them as if they were flower petals (7-8). Place the figs on a serving plate ,
then squeeze a tuft of robiola cream onto each fig and place a rolled slice of ham on top . Finish the dish by garnishing with lemon balm leaves, a sprinkle of black pepper, more lime zest, and a few drops of olive oil : your stuffed figs are ready to be served!
It is recommended to consume the stuffed figs immediately.
Sweet or savory? The choice is yours! For a sweet version, fill your figs with mascarpone cream mixed with a teaspoon of honey and finish with some crunchy hazelnut crumbs. For a variant of the savory version we proposed, work the ricotta with pink pepper and place a slice of smoked salmon drizzled with lime juice on top of each fig.

