name:
Fig Millefeuille
ingredients:
Butter: 2.1cups(480 g)- soft
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Sugar: 4tsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1.7tsp(10 g)
Water: ¾cup(180 ml)- (cold)
Vanilla bean: 1
Milk: ½cup(115 ml)
Egg yolks: 0.3cup(75 g)
Cornstarch: 6tbsp(50 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.2oz(5 g)
Figs: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Sugar: 0.4cup(75 g)
Figs: 1
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time in the refrigerator

instructions:
With the arrival of summer, sweet and juicy figs appear on tables, already delicious enjoyed on their own. Imagine creating a delightful dessert with these fruits. We couldn't resist the temptation and propose to you a fig millefeuille: crispy layers of a special flaky pastry that requires less preparation time compared to the classic one and a velvety cream with a delicate fig flavor. We certainly have tempted and intrigued you! Take advantage of the summer season to make your fig millefeuille, bringing to the table a classic dessert revisited and with an enticing taste. Try also our strawberry millefeuille and the Berry Millefeuille .
To make the fig millefeuille, place the flour, salt, sugar, and vanilla bean seeds in a stand mixer equipped with a paddle attachment, add the soft butter , and start the machine. Once the mixture is well combined
add the cold water . Continue kneading until you get a homogeneous mixture. Spread 2/3 of the dough on a parchment paper sheet, giving it a rectangular shape about 1/4 inch thick measuring approximately 14x11 inches, transfer the dough onto a baking sheet of the same size, and smooth the surface well with a spatula . Cover with another parchment paper sheet and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least one hour (or even overnight). Roll out the remaining dough on a parchment paper sheet, giving it a rectangular shape measuring half of the other, i.e., 11x7 inches, and about 1/4 inch thick . Cover with a parchment paper sheet, transfer the dough onto a baking sheet, and let it rest along with the other dough for 1 hour in the refrigerator.
Meanwhile, prepare the fig cream: put the gelatin sheets in cold water to soften them , peel the figs , and place them in a mixer
blend them to obtain a smooth sauce , transfer it to a saucepan, add the milk , and heat the sauce, stirring with a whisk .
In another bowl, beat the egg yolks with the sugar , add the cornstarch , and mix in half of the fig sauce into the egg mixture, stirring with a whisk to combine the ingredients .
Pour this cream into the saucepan containing the remaining fig sauce . Let the cream thicken over low heat, stirring with the whisk until you get a thick, not liquid cream. Turn off the heat and incorporate the well-squeezed gelatin sheets, continuing to stir with the whisk until fully dissolved . Transfer the cream to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it cool in the refrigerator for 2 hours.
Take the puff pastry sheets and bake them in a convection oven at 428°F for 15 minutes, then continue cooking by lowering the temperature to 356°F for 25 minutes. By the end of this time, the pastry should be golden and not soft to the touch. Remove it from the oven and dust with powdered sugar . Bake again, this time at 464°F for 3-4 minutes. The surface should be browned and shiny. Remove and let cool on a rack. Cut the large puff pastry in half, so you should get 3 sheets measuring 11x7 inches. Place one pastry sheet on a serving plate, fill with the fig cream using a pastry bag , and continue alternating a layer of pastry with a layer of cream.
Finish with a pastry sheet (22-23), cover the surface with powdered sugar and slices of fresh figs . Keep the fig millefeuille in the refrigerator until ready to serve.
Store the fig millefeuille in the refrigerator for up to a couple of days. You can freeze it if you have used fresh ingredients.
When figs are no longer in season, fill your millefeuille with classic pastry cream or chocolate cream or mascarpone cream. If you are not too familiar with the weight of egg yolks: 75 g corresponds to about 5 medium yolks. However, it is advisable to weigh them for greater accuracy.

