name:
Focaccia with Prosciutto and Figs
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 4cups(500 g)
Honey: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Brewer's yeast: 0.9tsp(4 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)- (soft)
Fine salt: 1.7tsp(10 g)
Water: 1.3cups(300 g)- (at room temperature)
Figs: 5
Prosciutto crudo: 3.5oz(100 g)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Honey: 2tsp
Coarse salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note plus the rising time

instructions:
One of the most classic and delicious summer combinations is undoubtedly that of prosciutto with figs, where sweet and savory meet in a pleasantly contrasting blend of flavors. There are many recipes with figs and prosciutto to inspire you to create tasty appetizers and fresh, delicious dishes like our tempting figs sandwich . Today we invite you to try these two ingredients in a delicious version: the focaccia with prosciutto and figs, a tasty and hearty snack to offer as a savory snack or as an appetizer. This recipe is perfect for those who don't want to give up the taste of homemade focaccia even in the summer season!
Also try this variation: Five-grain focaccia with figs and lard !
In a bowl, mix the sifted flour with the dry yeast , dissolve the salt in the water , and then incorporate it into the dry ingredients ,
then add the oil , honey , and softened butter .
Knead everything with your hands directly in the bowl , when you have gathered all the ingredients transfer to a lightly floured work surface . Work the dough until it becomes smooth and elastic, shape it into a ball and place it in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for 2 hours in the oven turned off with the light on or in a warm place, protected from drafts. After the rising time, take the dough that will have doubled in volume ,
spread the focaccia with your hands on a lightly oiled surface, shape it into a rectangle and then transfer it to a 14x11 inch pan well oiled at the bottom . Cover with plastic wrap the spread dough and let it rise again for 1 hour, until the focaccia reaches the edge of the pan.
Meanwhile, carefully wash the figs and cut them into slices about 0.4 inches thick without peeling them . Take the risen focaccia, brush the surface with olive oil and distribute the fig slices on top , making a slight pressure so that they adhere well to the dough. Season with thyme ,
sprinkle the surface with honey and coarse salt. Bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F for 35 minutes (or fan oven at 320°F for 25 minutes). When the focaccia is golden brown, take it out of the oven , let it cool slightly then top it with prosciutto slices and another drizzle of honey and serve your focaccia with prosciutto and figs !
Store the focaccia with prosciutto and figs in the refrigerator for a couple of days at most. You can freeze it without the prosciutto. If you prepare the dough the night before, let it rise in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap.
When figs are no longer in season, you can replace them with dried figs or sweet-tasting confit cherry tomatoes!
You can also use fresh brewer's yeast: in this case, use 12 grams.

