name:
Pasta with Cantabrian Anchovies and Burrata Stracciatella
ingredients:
Rigatoni: 2 ½cups(320 g)
Anchovies in oil: 6- from the Cantabrian Sea
Yellow cherry tomatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)- cherry tomatoes
Garlic: 1clove
Shallot: 1
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Stracciatella cheese: 5oz(140 g)- (from fresh burrata)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
We know you are always on the lookout for savory and exciting first courses! That’s why we thought of pasta with Cantabrian anchovies and burrata stracciatella. A meeting of flavors and colors that is truly thrilling. Imagine sweet and flavorful yellow cherry tomatoes meeting a rich and savory dressing based on the famous Cantabrian Sea anchovies. To elevate the dish and give it a fresh and summery touch, a generous portion of burrata stracciatella. A dish of pasta with Cantabrian anchovies and burrata stracciatella is sure to surprise you with this whirlwind of flavors dancing on your taste buds.
Other first courses with anchovies? Check these out:
To prepare pasta with Cantabrian anchovies and burrata stracciatella, start with the sauté. Crush a garlic clove with a knife and then chop the shallot . Place a pot of water on the stove to cook the pasta and in the meantime, pour a swirl of oil in a saucepan and add the garlic and shallot . Then add the Cantabrian anchovies and gently fry for 5 minutes, stirring with a wooden spoon .
Add the whole yellow cherry tomatoes , let them flavor for a moment , and pour in a ladle of hot water taken from the pasta pot .
Slightly crush the cherry tomatoes with a wooden spoon , add a pinch of salt and pepper , then cover with the lid: let it cook for about 20 minutes, ensuring the mixture does not dry out too much; if necessary, add a bit more water .
After 10 minutes of cooking the sauce, cook the rigatoni . When there are 3-4 minutes left before the pasta is done, remove the garlic from the sauce, drain the pasta, and transfer it into the sauce . Add some pasta cooking water and finish cooking the pasta like risotto .
Then, stir continuously and add water as needed until the pasta is cooked and the sauce becomes creamy . Turn off the heat and sprinkle with some chopped parsley . Plate it and garnish the top with burrata stracciatella. Add another pinch of black pepper and some chopped parsley. Your pasta with Cantabrian anchovies and burrata stracciatella is ready to be enjoyed immediately .
It is recommended to consume the pasta with Cantabrian anchovies and burrata stracciatella immediately.
Add some fresh chili pepper, seeds removed, for a slightly fresh and spicy touch.

