name:
Pasta with tuna anchovies and bottarga
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.25oz(320 g)
Tuna in oil: 7.5oz(210 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Anchovies in oil: 0.7oz(20 g)- 5 fillets
Mullet Bottarga: 0.563oz(16 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Tomato purée: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: 1sprig
Fresh chili pepper: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Do you want to turn a typical last-minute dinner dish into an unforgettable sensory experience? Here's our proposal: pasta with tuna, anchovies, and bottarga. For this recipe, we've 'fished' some special ingredients for you that encapsulate all the flavor of the sea thanks to their preservation, making fish preparation easy and quick! We're talking about traditional oil-packed preserves: tuna that maintains its tender meat and anchovies, small fillets that release a surprisingly strong flavor when cooked. But we didn't stop there; we also chose one of the most prized dried products: bottarga, an aromatic and flavorful mullet roe, a taste concentrate with an amber hue that alone can enhance even the simplest dish! Known as the caviar of the Mediterranean, bottarga will give a sophisticated touch to the pasta with tuna, anchovies, and bottarga, imparting its typical intense aroma.
Discover also how to prepare spaghetti with bottarga .
To make the pasta with tuna, anchovies, and bottarga, start by washing and chopping the fresh parsley , then take the tuna, drain it with a sieve to remove excess oil , then transfer it to a bowl and flake it with a fork .
In a large pan, heat a drizzle of olive oil with the garlic , when the oil is flavored, remove the garlic cloves , add the anchovy fillets and deglaze with a ladle of broth (or hot water) .
Let the anchovies melt to create a flavorful base , now season with fresh chili pepper cut into strips . Add the tuna
and the tomato puree . Cook over moderate heat for about 15 minutes, then season with chopped parsley . In the meantime, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the bavette for the time indicated on the package .
Drain the pasta and pour it directly into the pan with the sauce , as a final touch, season with a sprinkle of grated bottarga , toss the pasta in the pan for a few moments. Serve the pasta with tuna, anchovies, and bottarga piping hot .
It is preferable to consume the pasta with tuna, anchovies, and bottarga immediately. Freezing is not recommended.
For a total white version, you can omit the tomato sauce. Conversely, for those who love fresh sauces, we recommend a cherry tomato sauce for an irresistible taste!

