name:
Mezze maniche with cherry tomatoes and anchovies
ingredients:
Mezze Maniche Rigate pasta: 14.1oz(400 g)
Salted anchovies: 2tbsp(30 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 0.8cup(120 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(45 g)
Fresh chili pepper: to taste
Basil: 3leaves
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
How many times have you felt a craving for something tasty, but you were in a hurry? Having little time doesn't necessarily hinder creativity: with a pinch of imagination and the right pairing of flavors, you can create very tasty dishes like mezze maniche with cherry tomatoes and anchovies. A light and appetizing first course, with fresh cherry tomatoes and anchovy fillets that give character to this very simple pasta recipe, suitable for a last-minute lunch or dinner!
Also try spaghetti with anchovies , ready in less than 30 minutes!
To prepare the mezze maniche with cherry tomatoes and anchovies, start by bringing plenty of water to a boil in a pot for the pasta. When it's boiling, add salt. Meanwhile, continue with the preparation of your sauce. Take the cherry tomatoes, wash them well, and place them on a cutting board where you will cut them in half and then into quarters . Now take a non-stick pan, drizzle a little oil over it, and place a clove of garlic to brown over moderate heat . When the garlic is golden, remove it from the pan .
Add the cleaned anchovies to the pan , letting them dissolve in the oil . When the anchovies are well dissolved, add the previously quartered cherry tomatoes .
Sauté the cherry tomatoes over high heat in the oil with the anchovies , until they begin to soften, but without completely mashing. At this point, add the chili pepper, seeds removed and cut into strips, and adjust salt and pepper. Be careful not to over-salt since the anchovies are already very salty. Cook the pasta and drain it al dente , then toss it in the sauce for a few moments. At this point, your mezze maniche with cherry tomatoes and anchovies are ready. Place the pasta tossed in the sauce on serving plates and serve it hot, garnishing, if you like, with some basil leaves and rolled anchovies .
The mezze maniche with cherry tomatoes and anchovies should be consumed as soon as they are cooked. You can store them in the refrigerator for 1 day in an airtight container. It is not recommended to freeze them.
Due to the anchovies, which are already quite salty, I advise you not to overdo it with the salt; be careful not to salt the pasta water too much and taste the seasoning before salting it as it may not be necessary.

