name:
Sea bream Mediterranean style
ingredients:
Sea bream: (700 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: (30 g)
Fine salt: 
Black pepper: 
Garlic: 
Black olives: (100 g)
Cherry tomatoes: (200 g)
Thyme: 
Salted capers: 

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
If you're looking for a light yet tasty recipe, we have a perfect proposal for you: Mediterranean-style sea bream, an even more flavorful variant compared to the classic baked sea bream and microwave sea bream . The lean meat of this saltwater fish pairs perfectly with more enticing and appetizing ingredients like intensely flavored black olives, capers with their characteristic aromatic note, and juicy cherry tomatoes. Thanks to oven cooking with minimal fats, Mediterranean-style sea bream is the perfect main course for those who want to serve a light yet flavorful dish on any occasion!
Try other delicious baked fish recipes too:

To prepare Mediterranean-style sea bream, start by cleaning the fish : take each sea bream, cut off the fins with scissors and proceed to descale it with a descaling tool or the blade of a knife, running it several times from head to tail . Now use scissors to make an incision along the belly of the fish from the tail to the head and remove the internal viscera , then rinse the sea bream under running water to clean it of all residues, both inside and out .
Stuff each sea bream with the aromatics: fresh thyme sprigs , a peeled clove of garlic each , and finally salt and pepper .
Take a baking dish, drizzle the bottom with olive oil , place the two stuffed sea bream , then wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half ,
distribute them in the baking dish around the two sea bream, then thoroughly rinse the capers under running water to remove excess salt and add them to the sea bream , also add the pitted black olives , and scent with a couple of fresh thyme sprigs .
and drizzle the sea bream with a little olive oil ; season lastly with salt. Now bake the Mediterranean-style sea bream in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C) for 25-30 minutes. Once cooked, remove the Mediterranean-style sea bream from the oven and serve it accompanied by the cherry tomatoes and olives !
You can store the Mediterranean-style sea bream in the oven for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
For an extra touch of flavor, add a dice of vegetables with eggplants, zucchinis, and carrots, cut into small cubes: the dish will be even more delicious and colorful!
Learn how to make Baked Black Olives to enrich this recipe!

