name:
Orange spaghetti with anchovies
ingredients:
Spaghetti: (360 g)
Oranges: (600 g)
Anchovies in oil: (40 g)
Breadcrumbs: (30 g)
Mint: 
Extra virgin olive oil: (40 g)
Cointreau: (40 g)
Garlic: 

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To surprise your guests with an exotic taste, orange spaghetti with anchovies is the most suitable dish. In fact, the sweetness and fragrance of oranges soften the strong and savory flavor of the anchovies , making these orange spaghetti with anchovies a first course full of contrast. With a few ingredients and some precautions, you can prepare a delicious recipe and be sure to have tantalized even the most refined palates, so all that's left is to try these orange spaghetti with anchovies!
Also discover another original and tantalizing dish: spaghetti with anchovy sauce and cherry tomatoes !
Preparing orange spaghetti with anchovies takes very little time, so just organize your time: start immediately by putting the water for the pasta on the stove, meanwhile cut off the two ends of the orange and then peel it completely ; when the pulp is completely separated from the skin, start sectioning it by removing the segments of the fruit with the knife blade .
Cut the orange into small pieces , chop the anchovy fillets . In a pan, let the oil become fragrant with the garlic clove ,
then shortly after remove it , add the anchovy fillets , and let them cook for a moment .
Then add the orange pieces and let them become flavored , then deglaze with Cointreau being very careful about the possible flame (if it happens, don't worry, it will extinguish in a very short time).
In a non-stick pan, pour the breadcrumbs and let them toast for a few minutes . At this point, the water for the pasta will be boiling, so pour in the spaghetti and adjust the salt.
When they are cooked, drain them and pour them into the pan with the sauce , add the toasted breadcrumbs , and finish with the mint leaves . Stir and serve the orange spaghetti immediately.
It is advisable to consume the orange spaghetti with anchovies immediately, without long waiting times.
When I have little time, or if I'm too tired, I use canned anchovy fillets, but sometimes I also like to use fresh anchovies! In that case, the cooking time is a bit longer. For this recipe, I prefer to use navel oranges, but when I can't find them, I readily use whatever I have at home.

