name:
Grilled Eggplant Parmigiana
ingredients:
Eggplant: 2lbs(900 g)
Tomato purée: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Mozzarella cheese: 2 ¼cups(250 g)
Grated cheese: 1cup(100 g)
Yellow onions: 1
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
The eggplant parmigiana is an Italian culinary specialty with many variations depending on the family preparing it or the ingredients used. If you're looking for a lighter yet equally tasty version, here's the recipe for grilled eggplant parmigiana! The main elements are the same as the classic recipe, but in this case, the eggplants are grilled instead of fried: a valid and healthy alternative that won't make you miss the original... in fact, even here the layers of vegetables are enriched with a simple tomato sauce, plenty of grated cheese, and melting mozzarella, along with the unmistakable aroma of basil leaves. A triumph of Mediterranean flavors that lends itself perfectly to being served as a main dish for a family dinner or as a vegetarian main course for Sunday lunch... everyone knows, parmigiana is always good, and grilled eggplant parmigiana perhaps even more!
Don't miss these delicious parmigiana variations:

To prepare the grilled eggplant parmigiana, start with the sauce: finely chop the onion and place it in a saucepan with a drizzle of oil . Sauté gently for about 8 minutes, then add the tomato puree and a little water, just enough to rinse the pitcher.
Salt , stir, cover with a lid, and cook on low heat for about 30 minutes, stirring occasionally . During the last few minutes of cooking, you can slightly open the lid to let the sauce thicken. Meanwhile, take care of the eggplants: wash and trim them .
Slice them lengthwise to about 1/4 inch thick . Heat a grill pan and grill the eggplants : 2 minutes per side on high heat should be enough to get nice grill marks .
As they are ready, set the grilled eggplants aside . Tear the mozzarella by hand, placing it in a strainer over a bowl ; this will remove any excess whey. You are ready to assemble the parmigiana: first, spread a layer of sauce on the bottom of a 11x8 inch baking dish .
Now lay down the grilled eggplants, slightly overlapping them , then cover with more sauce and flavor with basil leaves torn by hand .
Sprinkle with plenty of grated cheese and scatter pieces of the torn mozzarella; proceed in this way to create 2 more layers, starting again with the grilled eggplants . Finish the last layer only with the grated cheese and a drizzle of oil, without adding mozzarella .
Finish with a grind of pepper and bake at 392°F on the middle rack of a preheated static oven, for about 50 minutes . Once out of the oven, let the parmigiana rest briefly before garnishing it with more fresh basil as desired. Your grilled eggplant parmigiana is ready to be served hot or at room temperature !
The grilled eggplant parmigiana can be stored in the refrigerator well sealed for 2-3 days.
It can be frozen either raw or cooked.
You can season the grilled eggplants with oil and salt before layering them in the parmigiana.
If you prefer, you can enrich the dish with other cheeses like scamorza, edamer, or pecorino.

