name:
Grilled Octopus and Its Mayonnaise
ingredients:
Octopus: 2.2lbs(1.2 kg)- (eviscerated)
Yellow onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste- (Tuscan PGI)
Black pepper: to taste
Wild fennel: to taste
Lemon peel: ½
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.8cup(180 g)- (Tuscan IGP)
Spinach: 3 ½cups(100 g)
Fresh scallion: 1
Cherry tomatoes: 8
Red pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Makes: pieces
Note + cooling times

instructions:
We love octopus in all kinds of recipes, but we believe it shines best when grilled! Grilled octopus with its mayonnaise is a delicious Mediterranean-style main course, perfect for a special dinner or lunch. Nothing is left to chance, it's the ingredients that make this dish special, including the oil used both to season the octopus and to prepare the mayonnaise, to which we also added the octopus cooking water! An extraordinary recipe in its simplicity: join us to discover how to make grilled octopus with its mayonnaise.
Don't miss these octopus recipes:

To prepare grilled octopus with its mayonnaise, you'll need a cleaned and eviscerated octopus. In a large pot, add the coarsely chopped vegetables: celery, carrot, and onion . Also add the already eviscerated octopus , cover with a lid and cook on low heat for 60 minutes .
Once ready , remove the octopus and place it on a cutting board, let it cool. Set aside 100 g (0.42 cups) of cooking water, filter it, and pour it into a tall glass .
To make the mayonnaise, start by emulsifying the cooking water , slowly pouring in the extra virgin olive oil little by little , until you achieve a smooth and thick consistency .
Heat the grill, take the now-cooled octopus, cut the tentacles and place them on the hot grill , cook for about 10 minutes and grill them well. Then set aside .
Clean and thinly slice the spring onion , wash and cut the cherry tomatoes . Then you can plate: place a little mayonnaise on the plate
Place the octopus on its mayonnaise , add a side of green salad, cherry tomatoes, and spring onion . Season the tentacles with some fennel and lemon zest, dress the salad with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil and your dish is ready !
We recommend consuming shortly after preparation.
You can season the octopus as you like, substituting fennel with thyme or dill, for example.

