name:
Grilled Octopus on Potato Cream
ingredients:
Octopus: 2.2lbs(1.2 kg)- (already cleaned)
Carrots: 1
Yellow onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Ground white pepper: to taste
Coarse salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste- for brushing
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- ratte
Whole milk: 0.42cup(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- cold from the fridge
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Tomato purée: 0.8cup(200 g)
Honey: 2.3tbsp(50 g)
White wine vinegar: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Mustard: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Tomato paste: 2tsp(10 g)
Worcestershire sauce: 1tsp
Dried chili pepper: 1pinch
Smoked paprika: 1pinch
Tabasco®: 1drop
Panko: to taste
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 2 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Do you like to impress in the kitchen? Then let yourself be guided by the expertise of chef Philippe Leveille, who has prepared for us his "polp fiction" , or grilled octopus on potato cream! A delightful reinterpretation that transforms the classic octopus and potato salad into a gourmet main course where every tiny detail matters. The potatoes become a soft and velvety cream that contrasts with the crunchy texture of the octopus tentacles, accentuated by a light coating of panko, the typical Japanese breadcrumbs; an innovative element to which homemade barbecue sauce is added, with its slightly smoky taste giving the dish an extra boost. Challenge yourself and impress your guests with grilled octopus on potato cream... it will be perfect for a romantic dinner or a special occasion!
Don't miss these tasty octopus recipes as well:

To prepare the potato cream, first boil the potatoes: place them in a pot with cold water, bring to a boil, and cook for about 30 minutes depending on their size . Once cooked, peel them and immediately pass them through a food mill while they are still hot . Meanwhile, combine the milk and cream in a small pot and bring to just below boiling.
Pour the mashed potatoes into a pan and dry them over moderate heat, stirring with a ladle . When the milk and cream mixture is hot, gradually add it to the pan while stirring to combine .
Continue to stir with a hand whisk , then turn off the heat and add the cold butter from the fridge . Mix well to incorporate it evenly . Finally, salt, pepper, and strain the cream obtained to make it smooth and velvety.
To make the barbecue sauce, first clean and thinly slice the onion. Pour the honey into a small pot and heat it over moderate heat , then add the onion and let it soften for about 5 minutes, taking care not to change its color. At this point, add the white wine vinegar and mustard.
Add the tomato paste , the tomato puree , and a pinch of chili pepper .
Finally, season with a generous pinch of smoked paprika , a drop of Tabasco , and a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce . Salt and pepper.
Stir and cook the sauce for a few more minutes , then strain it to remove the onion and set it aside in a bowl .
To prepare the octopus, first clean and roughly chop the celery , onion , and carrot .
Fill a large pot with water, then add a handful of coarse salt , white peppercorns, and the vegetables . Submerge the octopus and cook for 55 minutes from when the water starts to boil.
Once cooked, place the octopus on a cutting board and separate the tentacles from the rest of the body . Brush the tentacles with oil , then place them on a hot griddle to make them crispy on the outside .
When the tentacles are ready , you can assemble the ingredients: cut the tentacles in half and brush the sides and bottom with barbecue sauce , then cover with panko which you have previously toasted in butter and dried on a cloth.
Spread the potato cream on the plate using the back of a spoon and place the coated tentacles on top . Your grilled octopus on potato cream is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the grilled octopus on potato cream immediately.
You can prepare the potato cream and barbecue sauce in advance and store them in the refrigerator for one day, covered with plastic wrap.
Ratte potatoes are ideal because they have very low moisture content; alternatively, choose old and floury potatoes. It is important to mash them while they are still hot; otherwise, you won't get the ideal texture.
For this recipe, only the octopus tentacles are needed: the leftover parts can be used to make an octopus salad or other dishes.

