name:
Mediterranean Swordfish Tartare
ingredients:
Swordfish: 10.5oz(300 g)- fillet
Pomodori di Pachino (cherry tomatoes): 1cup(150 g)
Shallot: 1oz(25 g)
Capers: ½tsp(3 g)
Basil: ½tsp(3 g)
Marjoram: ½tsp(3 g)
Parsley: ¼tsp(3 g)
Mint: ½tsp(2 g)
Lemons: 1- juice and zest
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(120 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The Mediterranean swordfish tartare is a very simple preparation based on raw swordfish. This version of the Mediterranean swordfish tartare showcases the strong flavors of our peninsula, primarily the fresh herbs that help to balance the richness of the fish and enhance your swordfish tartare with a fresh and decisive touch.
Also try the marinated tuna tartare with mango and arugula , delicious and original!
Finely chop the shallot with a knife and finely chop the well-rinsed capers . Now also finely chop all the herbs, namely marjoram, parsley, basil, and mint .
Then prepare the emulsion. Grate the lemon zest and then squeeze the juice from the same lemon; pour the juice into a tall container like a pitcher and then, after seasoning with salt and pepper, add the oil .
Emulsify with an immersion blender until the mixture slightly thickens . At this point, cut the cherry tomatoes into quarters and remove the seeds. Dice the cherry tomatoes finely . Take the swordfish fillet. It is recommended to buy treated fish and freeze it for 96 hours at 0°F, then thaw and use it in the recipe. Remove the outer skin from your swordfish fillet .
Now proceed to dice the swordfish fillet . For better cutting, you can place the fillet in the freezer for half an hour, cut it into slices about 1/5 inch thick, from which you will obtain a very fine dice. In a bowl, combine the swordfish cubes with the cherry tomatoes and finely chopped herbs, and add the capers , then add the grated lemon zest to these ingredients .
Dress everything with the emulsion obtained just before serving and mix the ingredients well . Now all that remains is to plate your Mediterranean swordfish tartare and enjoy!
The Mediterranean swordfish tartare is a preparation to be consumed fresh immediately. It is therefore not recommended to freeze it. It can be stored in the fridge for up to one day. The swordfish must be frozen before being consumed raw.
To your delicious Mediterranean swordfish tartare, you can add some fresh thyme, soy sauce for a touch of saltiness. For those who love spicy flavors, it is possible to add a few drops of Tabasco. For exotic notes, you can replace the lemon with lime.
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze for at least 96 hours at 0°F in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, as per the Ministry of Health guidelines .

