name:
Octopus Tentacles with Paprika Couscous
ingredients:
Couscous: 1 ½cup(300 g)- Wholemeal
Sweet Paprika: 2tsp
Thyme: to taste- fresh
Fine salt: to taste
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Octopus: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Ground black pepper: to taste
Juniper berries: to taste
Lemon peel: 1
Lemon juice: 2
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Tabasco®: 1tsp
Soy sauce: 1tsp
Maldon salt: to taste
Chard: 1.8lbs(800 g)- fresh
Dried chili pepper: 1- small
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Red potatoes: 2- (large)
Peanut seed oil: to taste- for frying

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Today we will prepare together a tasty and nutritious dish with slightly spicy notes, perfect to serve as a single course: octopus tentacles with paprika couscous! The whole grain couscous base perfectly complements the meatiness of the octopus and the addition of paprika further enhances its fragrance. To complete the dish, a side of tender sautéed greens and a handful of freshly fried chips... what more could you want? The octopus tentacles with paprika couscous will surely be a big hit at the table!
To prepare octopus tentacles with paprika couscous, first clean the octopus: rinse it under running water and remove the eyes and beak , then remove the innards from the internal sac and rinse it again under running water.
Fill a large, tall pot with water, add bay leaves, whole lemon peel, juniper berries, and peppercorns , and bring to a boil. Dip the octopus tentacles into the boiling water 3 times , then completely immerse the whole octopus and cook over medium-low heat for about 45 minutes . After this time, turn off the heat and leave the octopus in its cooking water for another 15 minutes.
While the octopus is cooking, you can prepare the couscous: bring the water to a near boil and pour the couscous into a separate bowl, add the paprika , and mix well. Pour the boiling water over the couscous until it is covered , then stir again and let it rest for about 6 minutes , covering the bowl with a lid or plastic wrap.
After this time, fluff the couscous with a fork or spoon , then season with salt and drizzle with some olive oil and a few fresh thyme leaves . Set aside and let it cool.
When the octopus is ready , transfer it to a cutting board and cut the tentacles, dividing them in half if they are very large . Place the tentacles in a baking dish where you will pour the lemon juice ,
olive oil , Tabasco , and soy sauce . Turn the tentacles in the dressing, cover with plastic wrap, and let marinate for at least 20 minutes.
In the meantime, continue with the rest of the preparations: in a large pan, sauté a clove of crushed garlic with a crumbled dried chili in a little olive oil, then add the previously trimmed Swiss chard . Sauté for a few minutes until tender, then season with salt and set aside.
Wash the potatoes with the skin on and cut them into very thin sticks . Pour the vegetable oil into a saucepan and heat it to a temperature of 302°F, then fry a few potatoes at a time until golden brown . Drain on absorbent paper and salt .
At this point, you can roast the octopus: heat a grill or non-stick pan very well and sear the tentacles on both sides for a few moments until a crust forms . Now you are ready to plate: place a few tablespoons of paprika couscous on one side of the plate and place a couple of tentacles per serving .
Season with Maldon salt , then add the Swiss chard and fried potatoes . Garnish with a few fresh thyme leaves and serve your octopus tentacles with paprika couscous immediately !
Boiled or grilled octopus can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
Paprika couscous can be stored in the refrigerator for up to a week.
Swiss chard can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
It is recommended to consume the fried potatoes immediately.
As an alternative to octopus, you can use shrimp for a delightful variant, or flavor the couscous with turmeric instead of paprika!

