name:
Octopus and Potato Skewers
ingredients:
Octopus: 1.9lbs(870 g)
Ground black pepper: 4 ½tsp(10 g)
Bay leaves: 9leaves
Potatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Bread: 0.7cup(40 g)- (only crumbs)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Rosemary: to taste
Lemon peel: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 50 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
You already know that we love transforming traditional recipes... we like to make them more modern and appetizing, but we don't like to stray too far from the original version, as in the case of Octopus, potatoes, and onions . So for the summer season, we prepared these octopus and potato skewers which you can enjoy without fork and knife, making them perfect for your appetizer or for a standing dinner on a terrace or by the sea! The octopus is cooked for a long time, as for making meatballs , and by cooling in its water, it will remain very tender, while the lemon-flavored crispy breading will bring a breath of freshness that will tantalize your taste buds!

To prepare the octopus and potato skewers, the first thing to do is wash the octopus under running water. Then, place a large pot with water on the stove, and as soon as it starts to boil, dip only the tentacles of the octopus into the boiling water for a few moments, then lift the octopus . Repeat this operation 2-3 times or until the tentacles are well curled. Then immerse the entire octopus in the water, add 3 bay leaves and the peppercorns . Let the octopus boil for one hour, then let it cool with the cooking water.
In the meantime, boil the potatoes . They should cook for about 30 minutes, depending on their size. The potatoes should be cooked but still a bit firm; use a fork to check that they're done correctly. Once cooked , drain them and let them cool. At this point, drain the octopus from the water .
Cut the bread crumb into cubes , place it in a blender cup , and blend until you get breadcrumbs. Transfer them to another bowl; chop the herbs with a knife and add them to the bread.
Add salt, black pepper , and grated lemon zest . Mix everything together and set aside.
Cut the octopus into rather large pieces. Each tentacle should be divided into 3-4 parts . Then peel the potatoes , and cut them into fairly large cubes as well; you'll need 12 .
Now compose the skewers, piercing potatoes and octopus onto wooden sticks, placing a bay leaf in the middle . Gradually transfer the skewers to a baking tray lined with parchment paper .
Drizzle them with a little olive oil , season with salt and pepper . Cover them with the previously prepared breading
and add another drizzle of olive oil . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C) for 20 minutes. Then take them out and serve them hot .
The octopus and potato skewers can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
Flavor the skewers with paprika or parsley!

