name:
Greek-style Octopus
ingredients:
Octopus: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Tomato purée: ½cup(125 g)
Red wine: 0.7cup(160 g)- not too full-bodied
White onions: 1- small
Garlic: 1clove
Cloves: 5
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
You went on vacation to Greece and surely you were captivated by the most famous traditional dishes such as Pork Souvlaki and Spanakopita , not to mention the delicious moussaka ! But it is highly likely that, almost unnoticed, you missed out on one of the octopus-based dishes you can taste there. We tried to replicate these characteristic flavors for Greek-style octopus: red wine, onions, tomato, and herbs for a succulent dish often accompanied with potatoes, barley, or bread, a valid alternative to the classic way of consuming octopus (in Greece but also in Italy), which is simply grilled. The octopus is slowly cooked with this flavorful and fragrant seasoning, a true wholesome and delightful delicacy, a preparation that will immediately enter your recipe book!
Also try the recipe for Luciana-style octopus , a delicious Campanian specialty!
To prepare Greek-style octopus, start by cleaning the octopus. After emptying the head, removing the part with the eyes and the beak underneath, rinse and cut it. Obtain pieces about 2 inches wide , do the same with the head , and finally chop the already cleaned onion and garlic .
Move to the stove and place a saucepan on the heat, add the pieces of octopus and sauté them over high heat for about twenty minutes, stirring occasionally , this way the mollusk will release its water .
After the necessary time for the octopus to dry has passed, add some oil and then the chopped onion and garlic . Continue stirring a little more
and then scent with bay leaves and cloves . Add the tomato sauce ,
the red wine and season with salt and pepper . Mix well
and continue cooking over low heat for an hour, covering with the lid . After the time has passed, make sure the sauce has reached the desired consistency , then turn off and serve your Greek-style octopus .
The Greek-style octopus can be stored for 2-3 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container. If you want, you can also freeze it as long as the octopus is fresh and not previously frozen.
The Greek-style octopus is really very tasty but a few small enhancements might suit you. A sprinkle of chopped parsley, for example, will give it freshness, while some chili pepper will add strength to the dish. Increase the amount of sauce so you can accompany it with slices of toasted bread or, why not, some pasta!

