name:
Soybean spaghetti with clams and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Soy spaghetti pasta: 7oz(200 g)
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Cherry tomatoes: 7oz(200 g)
Spring onions: 2
Powdered ginger: 1spoonful
Soy sauce: 0.167cup(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 2 hours for cleaning the clams

instructions:
Soybean spaghetti with clams and cherry tomatoes is a dish with fusion flavors that combines exquisitely Mediterranean tastes, such as clams and cherry tomatoes, with those typical of Asian culinary tradition, like soy spaghetti and soy sauce. The result is a tasty and simple-to-make fish dish inspired by traditional spaghetti with clams on one hand, and typical stir-fried soy spaghetti on the other. This skillful blend of tastes and aromas is a successful experiment that will win you over at the first bite!
To prepare the soybean spaghetti with clams and cherry tomatoes, first wash and quarter the cherry tomatoes . Peel the spring onions , remove the base, and slice them .
Chop the parsley and set it aside. Now clean the clams: first, sort through the clams, discarding any open or broken ones. Then tap each clam on a board to remove some of the sand and impurities. Place the clams in a bowl full of water and let them soak for a couple of hours, changing the water several times, until there is no more sand at the bottom of the bowl. Finally, rinse them one last time under running water .
Put the clams in a pan, cover with a lid, and cook over high heat for about 5 minutes, the time needed for the shells to open . Using a slotted spoon, transfer the clams to a bowl . Take a fine-meshed strainer and line it with absorbent paper or a thin cloth. Pour the cooking juices into the strainer ,
and use a teaspoon to help filter it . Shell the clams, keeping a few aside for decoration . Now place a pot full of water on the stove and bring it to a boil, which will be used for cooking the spaghetti. Pour a drizzle of oil into the pan ,
add the spring onion and ginger and let them sauté for a few minutes over moderate heat, then add the cherry tomatoes .
Then add the shelled clams and deglaze with 1.5 tablespoons of soy sauce . Turn off the heat and set aside .
Bring the pot with the boiling water back to the stove, add the soybean spaghetti, off the heat , and let them soak for about 3 minutes. At this point, drain the soybean spaghetti directly into the sauce , add the clam cooking water
and the remaining soy sauce . Sauté in the pan for another couple of minutes and turn off the heat. Plate, finish with the chopped parsley , and serve the soybean spaghetti with clams and cherry tomatoes immediately !
Soybean spaghetti with clams and cherry tomatoes should be consumed immediately. Freezing is not recommended.
This dish does not need additional salt as it is flavored by the clam juices, so we recommend not to overdo the soy sauce!

