name:
Spaghetti with Cheese, Pepper, and Sea Urchins
ingredients:
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Spaghetti: 11.25oz(320 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 2.7oz(75 g)
Pecorino toscano cheese: 2.6oz(75 g)- semi-aged
Cornstarch: 1tbsp(10 g)
Whole milk: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Sea urchins: 2.1oz(60 g)- (about 8 fresh sea urchins)
Sea urchins: 2.1oz(60 g)- pasteurized
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Tomato purée: 2tbsp(30 g)
Ground black pepper: ½tsp(2 g)- from Sarawak
Sichuan peppers: ½tsp(2 g)- whole
Jamaican pepper: ½tsp(2 g)- in grains
Ground white pepper: ½tsp(2 g)- from Penja
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Pecorino toscano cheese: to taste
Basil: 8leaves
Ground black pepper: to taste- from Sarawak

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High
Note + resting times for the individual preparations

instructions:
In the kitchens of the Trussardi restaurant, just a few steps from the Teatro alla Scala, chef Roberto Conti has created a truly special main course, bringing his flair to one of the most beloved dishes of Roman cuisine. The cacio e pepe (also enjoyable in the form of Tonnarelli cacio e pepe ) transforms and takes on a modern appearance with an intense sea fragrance: spaghetti with cheese, pepper, and sea urchins. A specialty to prepare for your guests, featuring two different types of pecorino (Romano and Toscano) to achieve a fondue that is not overly salty yet rich in flavor. The sea urchins must also be chosen carefully, with the purplish ones being preferable. Additionally, a balanced mixture of different types of pepper is crucial, measured to achieve the right level of spiciness, aromaticity, and balsamic notes. Make your own spaghetti with cheese, pepper, and sea urchins, a gourmet dish just like a true starred chef!
To prepare the spaghetti with cheese, pepper, and sea urchins, the first thing you need to do is make the pecorino fondue. Take the Tuscan pecorino and cut it into cubes of about 3/4 inch on each side , then do the same with the Romano pecorino . The cubes don’t need to be perfectly identical, but the more uniform they are, the better they will melt in the milk. Transfer both into a bowl and set aside .
At this point, in another small bowl, pour the cornstarch and 1/4 cup of milk . Mix with a whisk until it is completely dissolved and you obtain a kind of batter .
Pour the remaining 1 1/4 cups of milk into a saucepan and bring it to a boil . Only at this point can you add the cornstarch diluted in the milk to the saucepan , stirring quickly with a whisk .
Continue cooking for about 1 minute while stirring, then add the pecorino cubes . Now you can turn off the heat and cover the saucepan with plastic wrap ; let it infuse for about 5 minutes. After this time, blend the mixture with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous fondue. The consistency will be rather liquid; you will need to wait for the starches to work to make it creamier and thicker.
Proceed to prepare the sea urchin ragù. First, open the sea urchins with the appropriate tool . If you don't have the specific tool to open sea urchins, you can use scissors, but in this case, you shouldn't cut the sea urchin horizontally. Insert the scissors into the small hole at the base of the sea urchin since the concave part is softer and does not require strong pressure. Divide the sea urchin into two . Since water will come out when opening the sea urchin, we recommend doing this operation over a bowl.
At this point, using a teaspoon or a fork, scoop out only the red part , avoiding the black part, and transfer it to a small bowl. Continue this way for all the sea urchins . Once you have cleaned all the sea urchins, crush the clove of garlic in its skin by placing it between a sheet of parchment paper and applying gentle pressure with your hands .
Pour a drizzle of oil into a saucepan, add the garlic, and let the oil become fragrant for a moment. First, add the pasteurized sea urchins , then the fresh ones , stir , and reduce the heat to the minimum.
Add the tomato sauce and 3 or 4 basil leaves . Stir for no more than 15-20 seconds; it just needs to warm slightly. At this point, turn off the heat and cover with plastic wrap; set aside .
Prepare the pepper infusion by pouring the water into a saucepan and setting it on high heat. Then, on a cutting board, place a sheet of parchment paper and pour the four types of pepper into the center . Fold the sheet to cover them and use a meat tenderizer to crush them .
You will get a pepper mignonette , which will have a greater intensity than the whole grain. Then pour them into the water and let them infuse for about 1 minute. Strain everything into a large pan (or a wide skillet), where you will later toss the pasta .
Cook the pasta in plenty of boiling, lightly salted water and about halfway through cooking, turn on the heat under the pan with the pepper infusion to reduce it . Meanwhile, retrieve the fondue and you will immediately notice that it has changed consistency: it will have become much thicker thanks to the action of the starch.
Drain the pasta when there are a couple of minutes left to the end of cooking and transfer it directly into the pan with the pepper infusion . Then add the butter and the pecorino fondue , then mix and toss everything.
Add a drizzle of oil , a grind of Sarawak black pepper , and toss the pasta for 1-2 minutes .
Now everything is ready, you can plate it. Using a ladle and tongs, create a nest of spaghetti, twirling them and transferring it onto the plate . Place a spoonful of sea urchin ragù on top
and with a microplane (or a regular grater), grate some Tuscan pecorino on top . Decorate with a grind of Sarawak black pepper, a drizzle of oil, and two basil leaves . The spaghetti with ragù and sea urchins is ready , serve it immediately!
It is recommended to prepare the spaghetti with cheese, pepper, and sea urchins at the moment.
The fondue can be prepared 1-2 days in advance.
If you want to get ahead with cleaning the sea urchins, you can store them in a glass or ceramic bowl covered with a drizzle of oil for up to 1 day.
The sea urchin ragù can also be stored for up to 1 day.
For this dish, two different types of pecorino are used to add more sweetness. To achieve a sea urchin ragù that is not too strong, it is best to mix fresh sea urchin pulp with pasteurized sea urchin pulp, which can be easily purchased at the supermarket and has a milder flavor. By crushing the garlic in a sheet of parchment paper and not on the cutting board, your tools will not absorb its flavor. Adding butter allows for better emulsification of the pasta, resulting in more creaminess and shine. If you can't find these types of pepper, we recommend using at least black pepper and white pepper for a more rounded and fragrant taste.

