name:
Spaghetti with Sea Urchins
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 0.7lb(320 g)
Sea urchins: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Zucchini: 1.3lbs(300 g)
White wine: ¼cup(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To introduce today's recipe, we ventured into the depths of the sea, where a curious-looking, highly appreciated, and exquisite marine species resides: sea urchins. We resurfaced with a simple and classic yet flavorful and appealing main dish: spaghetti with sea urchins. All the taste of the sea enclosed in a small shell that will easily open in your hands by following the step-by-step How to clean sea urchins without hurting yourself, to extract the gonad, the inner fruit, of a beautiful orange color. For a contrasting color note and to add a delicate flavor to the dish, we decided to include some delicate zucchini that pair well with seafood dishes. Let your gourmet friends taste the spaghetti with sea urchins... and it will immediately remind you of summer lunches on the beach! If you are a fan of pasta with sea urchins, don't miss the tomato version and the fabulous spaghetti with cheese, pepper, and sea urchins!
To prepare spaghetti with sea urchins, start by opening the urchins. You can consult the culinary school, How to clean sea urchins for all the steps in detail. Use the sea urchin cutter and cut off the top part of the urchin , which can be recognized by the mouth, rinse the urchin under running water . At this point, proceed to extract the roe, using a teaspoon to scoop out only the orange part (ensure this is the color you see) . From 2.2 lbs (1 kg) of sea urchins, you should obtain about 2.5 oz (70 g) of pulp. Set the pulp aside.
Place a large pot filled with water on the stove to boil: it will be used to cook the pasta. Wash the zucchini and trim both ends. Then cut them lengthwise to create two halves and from these, cut half-moon shapes about 3/8 inch (1 cm) thick . In a pan, pour the oil and add the whole peeled garlic with the core removed (the green part of the garlic) . Lightly sauté and add the zucchini ;
cook over medium heat for 4-5 minutes. Add salt and pepper . Remove the garlic , and add the sea urchin pulp , stir and cook for only a few minutes, 2-3 will suffice.
Then deglaze with white wine and let the alcohol evaporate for a few moments over moderate heat (make sure some wine remains in the pan). Then you can turn off the heat. Meanwhile, the water will have come to a boil, add salt and pour in the pasta . Cook the spaghetti al dente and drain them directly into the sea urchin and zucchini sauce .
Sauté everything over medium heat, adding a ladle of pasta cooking water to make the sauce creamier and stir . Turn off the heat and plate your spaghetti with sea urchins .
It is advisable to consume the dish immediately after preparation.
Sea urchins can be stored in a bowl submerged in cold water and in the refrigerator, but do not wait too many days to consume them. When you notice the spines are no longer stiff, this is a sign the urchin has died and should not be consumed. Alternatively, you can store the extracted roe from the urchins in a container covered with a damp cloth for a maximum of one day.
It is preferable not to freeze to preserve all the flavor of the sea urchins; otherwise, the roe can be frozen for a maximum of 15 days.
You can use parsley to add fragrance to the spaghetti with sea urchins. You can also opt to add cherry tomatoes, tomato sauce, or choose to make it with only the sea urchin pulp!

