name:
Spaghetti with tuna and zucchini
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Zucchini: 3cups(350 g)
Tuna in oil: 1.4cups(320 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: 2sprigs
Peanut seed oil: 1.3cups(300 g)- for frying zucchini
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
A quick dinner-saving first course, the last-minute idea when the fridge is... "crying" and the pantry is half empty! The hectic life often leads to spending little time in the kitchen, but with a few quality ingredients, you can still create quick and tasty dishes! Today we invite you to try the spaghetti with tuna and zucchini: a simple and delicate combination, with tuna chunks in oil mixed with delicious fried zucchini! When you invite friends to dinner at the last minute, whip out this tasty recipe: you will leave them speechless!
To prepare the spaghetti with tuna and zucchini, start by washing and drying the zucchini, then trim them . Use a mandoline to slice them thinly (you can use a knife as an alternative) . Then heat the oil in a large pot. Bring the oil to 338°F, measuring with a kitchen thermometer. Then add a few zucchini slices at a time, to avoid lowering the oil temperature too much .
It will take just a few moments for them to turn golden, then drain them with a slotted spoon directly onto a tray lined with paper towels : set them aside. Meanwhile, cook the spaghetti in plenty of salted water .
While the pasta is cooking, pour olive oil into a large pan and brown a clove of garlic . When it is golden, remove it. Then drain the tuna from the preservation oil : you will get 7.3 oz.
Heat it gently in the pan stirring it with a spatula. In the meantime, take a chili pepper. Cut it open and remove the seeds , then cut it into thin strips .
Add it to the tuna , then turn off the heat. At this point, the pasta will be al dente: drain it (reserving some cooking water) directly into the pan with the tuna and add the fried zucchini and turn the heat to low for just a moment . If necessary, add a little hot water to cream the pasta.
Turn off the heat, add the previously rinsed thyme leaves , adjust salt if necessary , and add pepper. Mix the ingredients well. At this point, your spaghetti with tuna and zucchini is ready to be plated .
This dish is best enjoyed while still hot when the zucchini are still crispy. However, you can store leftover pasta in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 1 day.
We do not recommend freezing.
Want to give an extra flavor to this simple but tasty first course? Try adding capers or making a red onion sauté to which you add the tuna dressing: they will become irresistible!

