name:
Spaghetti with Scorpionfish and Artichokes
ingredients:
Gluten-free Spaghetti pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Scorpionfish: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Artichokes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Lemons: 1
Garlic: 1clove
White onions: 2.8oz(80 g)
Carrots: 2oz(60 g)
Celery: 1.8oz(50 g)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Ground black pepper: 6
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
White wine: ¼cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
If the persistent rain outside keeps you from going out, there is nothing better than getting into the kitchen to prepare something tasty! These gloomy days that seem longer than usual are perfect for dedicating yourself to recipes that require a little more patience and whose result will reward you: the scorpionfish and artichoke spaghetti! A recipe that will delight everyone, even those who are gluten intolerant! The true stars of this first course are, in fact, the gluten-free spaghetti, plunged into a flavorful land and sea sauce. The tender and delicate meat of the scorpionfish meets the sweet-bitter taste of the artichoke, all flavored with a delicious fish broth that the spaghetti absorbs for an intense taste. So what are you waiting for? Get to work starting with cleaning the fish!
Also try these recipes with scorpionfish:
To prepare the scorpionfish and artichoke spaghetti, first start with the How to clean the scorpionfish : make an incision along the belly with a knife from the head to the tail, then remove the entrails and rinse it well under cold water .
Remove the fins using scissors , make a cut with a sharp knife along the back and make an incision near the end close to the tail to facilitate filleting. Start filleting the scorpionfish by sliding the blade and proceed the same way for the other fillets.
Once the scorpionfish is filleted , set aside the fillets and the scraps ; the latter will be used for the fish broth. Now focus on preparing the broth: take celery, onion, and carrot and chop them coarsely .
In a pot, pour the oil, add the vegetables and sauté them for about 2 minutes. Add the scorpionfish scraps and cook for about 3 minutes, stirring occasionally and being careful not to let them stick. Deglaze with the wine ,
then pour in water until all ingredients are completely covered , add salt and peppercorns and let it cook over moderate heat for at least 30 minutes. Clean the artichokes: remove the tougher outer leaves until you reach the heart with the light-colored part near the stem. Use a small knife to remove the more fibrous part of the stem ,
remove also the harder tips . Then cut the artichokes, remove the inner fuzz, slice them and place them in a bowl with cold water and lemon to prevent them from turning black .
Finally, cut the scorpionfish fillets into chunks and set them aside. Meanwhile, in a pan with a little oil, sauté a clove of garlic , then remove it and add the artichokes .
Salt and pepper them, and cook for about 6-7 minutes. When they have softened and are almost ready, add the scorpionfish , deglaze with wine , cook for a maximum of 2-3 minutes and then turn off the heat.
Strain the broth and use it, pouring it into a fairly large and deep pan. Take the spaghetti and cook them in the broth to absorb all the flavors, making sure the pasta is covered and stirring occasionally to prevent sticking.
When the spaghetti is cooked, add the artichokes and the scorpionfish , mix everything well, and your scorpionfish and artichoke spaghetti are ready to be served!
It is preferable to consume the scorpionfish and artichoke spaghetti right after preparation, otherwise, you can store them in the fridge for up to one day!
Freezing is not recommended.
To make the dish richer, you can also add potatoes or green beans. For an alternative to scorpionfish, you can also use sea bass or sea bream!

