name:
Spaghettini with Avocado and Shrimp
ingredients:
Spaghettini pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Shrimps: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Shrimp bisque  (Fumetto di crostacei): 2.1cups(500 g)- made with shrimp scraps
Avocado: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Brandy: 1.5oz(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + preparation time for the bisque (shellfish broth)

instructions:
When you find yourself at the supermarket or your trusted fruit vendor, we are sure that besides the traditional choices, your eye falls on the colorful exotic fruits! In particular, there is an ingredient that comes from the warm corners of Central and South America with an oval shape and a bright green, wrinkled skin: we are talking about the avocado! A fleshy fruit that is often found in the kitchen paired with fish! If you have never tried it, we invite you to experiment with it together with shellfish by making spaghetti with avocado and shrimp. An extraordinary union between the delicacy of the shrimp and the sweet, juicy flesh of the avocado. The thin and light format of spaghettini perfectly embraces the ingredients... an exotic mix of flavors ideal for serving at a summer dinner, thanks to its enticing freshness!
To prepare the spaghettini with avocado and shrimp, start with the cleaning of the shrimp . With your hands, detach the head and gently remove the shell , keeping the scraps aside to make the bisque. Make a cut on the back of each shrimp and using a tweezer, remove the intestine .
Place the shrimp flesh in the refrigerator and prepare the crustacean stock (bisque) . Peel an onion and cut it into four parts, clean the leek by removing the ends and the greener leaves, then slice it into thin rounds. Melt the butter in a large saucepan, and when it is melted, add the onion, leek, and garlic . Let everything sauté and soften, then add the shellfish scraps and let them sauté for a couple of minutes over high heat, stirring with a wooden spoon and crushing the heads. Deglaze with white wine and only when the alcohol has evaporated, add water to completely cover the shells. Add parsley, whole black pepper, and season with salt .
Lower the heat and let it simmer gently for at least 60 minutes. During this time, it will be necessary to skim the stock with a skimmer , making sure to rinse it each time to remove all traces of impurities. After the indicated time, the stock should reduce to about half its initial volume, strain it with a fine-mesh strainer , and keep your still-warm stock aside .
Once the bisque is prepared, focus on cleaning the avocado. Cut it into 4 and peel it by sliding the edge of a sharp knife between the skin and the flesh . Repeat the operation for the 4 parts and remove the central pit, then cut them into cubes of about 3/8 inch and set them aside.
At this point, transfer about half of the crustacean stock into a pan and immerse the spaghetti in it . Stir them with a fork
and continue cooking as if it were a risotto, adding a ladle of bisque as needed . Make sure that the spaghetti is just covered by the crustacean stock. If the bisque runs out, feel free to add hot water . Meanwhile, as the spaghetti comes to cooking, pour the oil and garlic into a pan, let it sauté, then remove it .
Add the shrimp and sear them for a couple of minutes , season with salt and pepper, and also add the avocado cubes . Stir with a spatula and deglaze with brandy . Let the alcohol evaporate and turn off the heat.
When the pasta is ready, add the shrimp and avocado , mix everything together and add fresh thyme . Plate and serve your spaghettini with avocado and shrimp.
Store your spaghettini with avocado and shrimp for no more than one day, sealed in an airtight container and placed in the fridge.
Try blending the avocado for a creamier consistency.
If you do not like the taste of brandy, you can deglaze with white wine.
Spaghettini with avocado and shrimp is also perfect for the Valentine's Day menu!

