name:
Spaghetti with Catalan-style mussels
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Cherry tomatoes: 1.3cups(200 g)
White wine vinegar: 1tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Red onions: 7oz(200 g)
Lemon juice: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Basil: 6leaves
Water: 1cup(250 g)- cold
Basil: 3leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Spaghetti with mussels are a classic of Italian cuisine, available in many versions depending on regional traditions. Today we offer you a lighter variant, definitely suitable for the summer season: spaghetti with Catalan-style mussels. In this preparation, mussels are seasoned with raw vegetables: red onion and cherry tomatoes, two ingredients that give the seafood freshness and an intense summer aroma! If you think you deserve a moment of relaxation after a year of hard work, imagine yourself by the sea, relaxed on the terrace at sunset. While sipping a nice glass of white wine, enjoy these delicious spaghetti with Catalan-style mussels to beautifully conclude your day! Also discover our spaghetti with mussels and cherry tomatoes !
To prepare spaghetti with Catalan-style mussels, start with the cherry tomatoes. Wash them under fresh running water and dry them. Remove the green stem and cut them into quarters . Put them in a bowl, season with salt, and add a drizzle of oil . Roughly tear the basil leaves , then set aside.
Peel and clean the onion, then cut it into wedges and then into thin strips . Place it in a bowl with cold water and vinegar for about 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, proceed with the cleaning of the mussels . Rinse them under running water and use a knife to remove any encrustations and barnacles on the shell surface. Then, pull out the beard protruding from the shells with a firm yank . Scrub the shell with a steel wool pad to remove any remaining impurities .
Place them in a non-stick pot , heat over high heat with the lid on , and wait for the mussels to open, stirring occasionally: it will take about 7-8 minutes. Once ready, save the cooking liquid, then open the mussels and remove the mollusks .
Strain the mussel liquid using a gauze placed over a bowl , you should obtain 26 oz. At this point, squeeze a lemon and pour the juice into a small bowl. Add the olive oil ,
and 1.4 oz of the mussel cooking liquid ; whisk the ingredients with a flat spring whisk until you get a homogeneous mixture .
Pour the remaining 24 oz of mussel cooking liquid into a large pan along with the cold water . Bring to a boil and cook the spaghetti, arranging them evenly in the pan . Let the cooking water evaporate completely, stirring the spaghetti occasionally to prevent sticking .
When there are 3 minutes left for cooking, add the cherry tomatoes , the drained onion , and the mussels .
Finally, pour in the lemon-based emulsion you prepared and mix the ingredients to combine them evenly , allowing to cook for an additional 3 minutes. Now plate your spaghetti with Catalan-style mussels and enjoy warm, garnishing with basil leaves !
It is preferable to consume the spaghetti with Catalan-style mussels immediately. You can store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 1 day.
Freezing is not recommended.
Want a more intense taste? Try adding a garlic clove sautéed in a drizzle of oil before cooking the mussels and deglaze with white wine during cooking!
Mussels are so common in our seas that until a few years ago you could see stalls where the "mussel sellers", especially in southern Italy, sold this delicious mollusk.

