name:
Whole Wheat Spaghetti with Land and Sea in Foil
ingredients:
Whole wheat Spaghetti pasta: 11.25oz(320 g)
Swordfish: 8.8oz(250 g)
Eggplant: 10.6oz(300 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 7.1oz(200 g)
Dry white wine: 0.75oz(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Lemon peel: 1- (untreated)
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: 6leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Rice flour: ¼cup(40 g)
Peanut seed oil: 1.6cups(350 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Whole wheat spaghetti with land and sea in foil is a light and tasty first course, ideal for summer. A classic and perfect pairing: eggplants cooked two ways perfectly combine with pan-seared swordfish cubes. This fully Mediterranean preparation brings together the rustic and bold flavors of the land with the more delicate and refined ones of the sea. The whole wheat spaghetti enhances the aromas of the dish, while cooking in foil not only represents an original idea but also allows you to not overdo with the seasonings. Open your parcels directly at the table and add the fried eggplant skin to give a crispy and decorative touch to the dish!
After tasting the whole wheat spaghetti with land and sea in foil, discover these tasty variations:

To prepare whole wheat spaghetti with land and sea in foil, start with the preparation of the seasoning. Peel about half of the eggplant with a peeler and cut the skin into a very thin julienne, using a knife (2-3), which will be used for the final decoration.
At this point, slice the eggplant , then cut it into strips and finally into cubes not too large .
In a large pan, heat a drizzle of oil with a clove of garlic , add the eggplant cubes , salt them, and continue cooking by adding a ladle of hot water .
Cook for about 10 minutes, removing the garlic halfway through cooking . Meanwhile, wash and halve the cherry tomatoes and transfer them to a bowl. Then, take care of the swordfish: remove the outer skin with a knife
and cut it into cubes . Transfer it to the pan with the eggplants and let it cook for 2 minutes , then deglaze everything with white wine .
Once the wine has evaporated, add the halved cherry tomatoes , flavor the pasta with fresh basil , and adjust salt and pepper .
Boil the whole wheat spaghetti in plenty of salted boiling water to taste . While the spaghetti is cooking, cut squares of parchment paper measuring about 12x12 inches, which will be used to finish cooking in the oven . Drain the spaghetti al dente , saving the cooking water,
and transfer them to the pan with the sauce you have prepared . Toss them, adding some of the pasta cooking water for creaminess and portion them with a ladle and tongs or a spaghetti fork.
Place the spaghetti in the center of each parchment paper sheet , add a bit of seasoning, some basil leaves , and flavor with grated lemon zest . Continue in this way for all the remaining parcels until you run out of ingredients.
Close the parcels , securing them with kitchen twine and place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper . Bake them in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 4-5 minutes (if using a convection oven, cook your parcels at 356°F for 3-4 minutes).
Meanwhile, heat the seed oil and flour the previously julienned eggplant skins with rice flour . Fry them a few at a time using kitchen tongs (32-33).
Drain the eggplant skins on a tray with absorbent paper and lightly salt them. Remove the parcels from the oven and place them on a plate. Open them gently, removing the twine, drizzle the spaghetti with a bit of raw oil and complete with the fried eggplant skins and a basil leaf . Serve your whole wheat spaghetti with land and sea in foil piping hot.
The whole wheat spaghetti with land and sea in foil is excellent when consumed freshly cooked, otherwise, they can be stored for one day in the refrigerator. Freezing is not recommended.
Did you like the idea of cooking pasta in foil? Then don't miss the classic recipe for linguine in foil with seafood!

