name:
Stir-fried Spaghetti with Chicken and Prawns
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 14oz(400 g)
Chicken breast: 10.6oz(300 g)
Shrimp: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Red peppers: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
Yellow peppers: 1cup(200 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: 2sprigs
Lime peel: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Soy sauce: 0.4cup(100 g)
Olive oil: 2 ¼tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Think chicken and shellfish is an unusual combination? It's a pairing often found in special or typical recipes like Jambalaya . We challenge you to try it again in this simple and tasty recipe: stir-fried spaghetti with chicken and prawns. A quick main dish full of alternative flavors, featuring lime zest for a fresh and fragrant aroma and soy sauce that with its unmistakable flavor gives the dish an intense taste. The stir-fried spaghetti with chicken and prawns will be your winning card to make even a quick dinner perfect.
To make the stir-fried spaghetti with chicken and prawns, start by cutting the chicken breast into strips , removing the central bone if present. Clean the prawns: detach the head, the tail, and remove the shell , then cut them in half lengthwise and use a toothpick to remove the intestine.
Cut the peppers into strips after removing the stem, the filaments, and the internal seeds. Sauté the olive oil with the garlic clove in a pan, then add the peppers (5-6)
and deglaze with 3.5 tablespoons of soy sauce , stir, add pepper, and cook over low heat for 10 minutes with the lid on until they are soft , and remove the garlic clove.
Cook the spaghetti in plenty of boiling salted water to taste . Meanwhile, add the chicken to the peppers and cook for 4-5 minutes, then finally add the prawns and another 3.5 tablespoons of soy sauce, continue cooking for another 5 minutes.
When the spaghetti is cooked, drain it directly into the pan with the peppers, reserving a few ladles of cooking water, flavor with the grated zest of a lime or lemon and thyme. Add a ladle of cooking water and toss them for a few seconds . Serve the stir-fried spaghetti with chicken and prawns hot .
It is recommended to consume the stir-fried spaghetti with chicken and prawns immediately; if there are leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator for a couple of days in an airtight container.
If you don't like the strong taste of peppers, you can replace them with zucchini and carrots.

