name:
Spaghetti with beans and mussels
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 0.7lb(320 g)
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Precooked Cannellini beans: 1cup(250 g)
White wine: ½glass
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1- fresh
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Spaghetti with beans and mussels is a main course that combines the flavors of land and sea. The combination of mussels and beans is a classic, especially in Campanian cuisine, but it is revisited and enjoyed in many other Italian regions. Today we offer you a version that pairs the irresistible mollusk with one of the most delicate varieties of beans: the cannellini bean. This variety is ideal for transforming the sauce into a soft cream seasoned with a slightly spicy sauté that, with the mollusks, will envelop your pasta to give you a tasty and inviting main course. You can also change the pasta shape to your liking, using, for example, linguine or a short pasta like shells so that the sauce penetrates inside each one! If you like, you can also add some tomato sauce or cherry tomatoes confit !
To prepare spaghetti with beans and mussels, start by preparing the mixture for the sauté. Wash and chop a sprig of parsley , then peel the garlic clove and chop it , then trim the chili pepper to remove the green part and slice it finely.
In a large pan, pour a drizzle of oil , then add the garlic, chili pepper, and part of the chopped parsley and sauté everything over very low heat, stirring occasionally. Meanwhile, proceed to clean the mussels ; Rinse them under running water .
Remove the byssus, which is the beard of the mussels , and scrub the surface of each mussel with a scrubber or scrape them with the blade of a knife. Rinse them again and add the mussels to the pan with the sauté you had prepared .
Pour in the white wine , let the wine evaporate for a few moments, then cover the mussels with a lid ; it will take just a few minutes for the mussels to open. At this point, turn off the heat, strain the mussels, collecting the cooking liquid in a small bowl and shell them, placing the fruits in the bowl with the liquid.
Now take the pan where you opened the mussels and pour in the fruits with the cooking liquid . Stir, let it cook for a few minutes, then add the cooked cannellini beans . Salt and pepper to taste and cook for 5-10 minutes until the beans have softened and created a soft cream. Meanwhile, in a large pot, bring the water to a boil, salt it, and cook the spaghetti for 5 minutes or until al dente.
Then drain them and transfer them directly to the pan with the beans and mussels . Add the chopped parsley you had set aside , mix and sauté quickly, and serve the spaghetti with beans and mussels piping hot !
Spaghetti with beans and mussels are excellent if consumed immediately after cooking. Freezing is not recommended.
And now, take the recipe and turn it upside down! You can use any pasta you want (although long pasta is ideal for this sauce... how about trying linguine?) and add a touch of color, for example, some tomato puree, or cherry tomatoes confit. Any other ideas to suggest?

