name:
Guitar Spaghetti with Octopus Ragù
ingredients:
Egg Spaghetti alla Chitarra pasta: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Octopus: 1.8lbs(800 g)- cleaned
Tomato purée: 3cups(700 g)
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
Garlic: 2cloves
Dry white wine: 2.5oz(70 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 3 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Guitar spaghetti with octopus ragù is a truly delicious main course, perfect for many occasions, such as a simple family lunch or even for the Christmas Eve dinner! This ragù is an original idea for cooking octopus, an alternative to the classic octopus and potato salad or the stewed version . It's simple to make and the slow cooking ensures a very tender octopus and a velvety, enveloping sea sauce, ideal for dressing long pasta. We propose pairing it with Maccheroni alla chitarra , whose porous texture is perfect for holding the sauce, but you can also choose other pasta shapes as you like. With guitar spaghetti with octopus ragù, you'll bring the taste and flavor of the sea to your table!
Also try these main courses:
To prepare the guitar spaghetti with octopus ragù, first make sure the octopus is well cleaned, free of eyes and beak. At this point, separate the tentacles and cut them in half , then cut them into pieces about a quarter inch in size . Prepare the vegetables for the soffritto by finely chopping the carrot, celery, and onion .
Separate the parsley stems from the leaves and chop the latter. Keep them aside, covering them with a damp towel. In a large pan, pour a drizzle of oil, add the parsley stems and the garlic clove . Turn on the heat and add the prepared soffritto . Let it flavor and as soon as the soffritto is well wilted, remove both the parsley stems and the garlic .
Then add the octopus cubes and stir. Cook for a few minutes and as soon as the water evaporates, deglaze with the white wine .
As soon as the alcohol evaporates, add the tomato puree . Then rinse the jug with water and pour it into the pot . Add just a pinch of salt and cook for 40 minutes, until the octopus is tender. You can add water if the sauce becomes too thick and extend the cooking time.
Cook the guitar spaghetti in plenty of salted boiling water, drain them and transfer them to the sauce . Add a little cooking water and a drizzle of oil .
Add the chopped parsley and black pepper . Mix well and serve .
The octopus ragù can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. We recommend serving the pasta freshly made; alternatively, it can be stored for one day in the refrigerator.
You can replace the guitar spaghetti with paccheri, linguine or calamarata for example. You can flavor the sauce with fresh basil and chili pepper, even without seeds, you won't regret it. This quick ragù cooks in about 40 minutes, enough for the octopus and tomato to be well cooked, nothing prevents you, however, from respecting the more traditional version and extending the cooking up to 3 hours. The octopus will be very tender!

