name:
Soy spaghetti with vegetables and shrimp
ingredients:
Soy spaghetti pasta: 7.1oz(200 g)
Shrimps: 12.4oz(350 g)
Red peppers: 1cup(150 g)
Yellow peppers: 5.25oz(150 g)
Asparagus: 10
Fresh scallion: - 1 large
Garlic: 2cloves
Brown sugar: 1tsp
Sunflower seed oil: 4spoonfuls
Soy sauce: 4spoonfuls
Fresh ginger: 2tsp(10 g)
Apple cider vinegar: 1spoonful
Vegetable broth: to taste
Orange juice: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Soy spaghetti with vegetables and shrimp is a flavorful first course ideal for bringing a touch of the East to your table with simplicity. The soy spaghetti is suitable for low-calorie diets, for those with food intolerances, and for gluten-free diets. To add flavor to the dish, soy sauce is sufficient (gluten-free options are also available in the market), which has great beneficial properties because it is rich in plant proteins, while the pungent and aromatic ginger will season the spaghetti. This first course is a triumph of colors as well as flavors, just as the oriental culinary tradition demands: the aesthetics of the dish is important along with the taste and flavor, to bring a perfect food to the table in every aspect. Soy spaghetti with shrimp and vegetables presents itself as a harmony of colors, flavors, and aromas that will delight your guests' palates!
Discover other tasty dishes based on Fried noodles with vegetables :
To prepare soy spaghetti with shrimp and vegetables, wash the asparagus, remove the hard end of the stalk, and peel them using an asparagus peeler or a small knife . Tie them with kitchen string and boil them in slightly salted water for 8-10 minutes, leaving the tips out of the water to cook in the steam . If the tips are tender when pierced with a fork, you can drain them. Let them cool slightly, then cut them into pieces, leaving the tips whole .
Proceed with the other vegetables. Cut the scallion into strips; peel the ginger and cut it into chunks; remove the stem and seeds from the halves of the bell peppers and cut them into sticks . Shell the shrimp: you can use pre-cooked or fresh ones . Cut the back of the shrimp with a small knife and gently pull out the black vein, which is the intestine .
Prepare the base for the stir-fry: pour sunflower oil into a wok or high-sided non-stick pan and heat it for a minute. Add the two crushed or whole garlic cloves , add the ginger chunks , and the scallion cut into strips. Cook for two minutes to flavor the oil .
Add the pepper sticks at this point, browning them over high heat for two minutes to maintain their crunchiness . Add the asparagus, first the bases then the whole tips, and mix the ingredients .
After adding all the vegetables to the pan, deglaze them with a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar , then add the brown sugar , and finally the soy sauce .
Now wet the vegetables with the juice of the squeezed orange and let them cook for about two minutes . If the vegetables become too dry, pour about two glasses of vegetable broth or fish stock . Add the shelled shrimp and cook for a maximum of one minute if the shrimp you chose are pre-cooked. If they are fresh, wait until they change color from grayish to bright orange-red, then turn off the heat .
In a pot, bring water to a boil and cook the soy spaghetti for a maximum of two minutes with the lid on, or follow the instructions on the package and . Drain them and rinse them under cold water, separating them with a fork to prevent them from sticking too much .
Add the drained soy spaghetti directly to the wok . Finish by mixing and adjusting the soy sauce to your liking . Plate and serve your steaming soy spaghetti with shrimp and vegetables .
Soy spaghetti with shrimp and vegetables can be stored in the refrigerator once cooked for 1-2 days in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended.
For this preparation, you can substitute or add the vegetables you like best. Always make sure not to overcook them, or they will lose their crunchiness. In this recipe, neither salt nor pepper was intentionally used, due to the presence of soy sauce which provides the saltiness. Adjust by adding one tablespoon at a time, tasting the vegetables directly from the wok.
The wok is a high-sided and concave-bottomed pan, a very versatile tool used in oriental cooking. The cast iron or steel model allows maintaining the same temperature across its surface during cooking. It allows for cooking many ingredients at the same time and can be used for stir-frying, steaming, stewing, frying, or smoking foods.

