name:
Spaghetti with Lobster in Bellavista
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 14.1oz(400 g)
Lobster: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (2 of medium size)
Shallot: 1.75oz(50 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Parsley: 1oz(30 g)- to chop
Tomato purée: 3 ⅛cups(750 g)
White wine: 4tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Spaghetti with lobster in bellavista is a stunning seafood first course that is also very tasty, perfect for celebrating special occasions or presenting to your guests for the holidays. The tender lobster meat, very delicate and inviting, is served with a tomato sauce that blends these good flavors in a sublime way. At the first taste, you will be ecstatic from the goodness of this dish, which certainly cannot be missing from the menu for grand occasions!
To prepare spaghetti with lobster in bellavista, start with cleaning the lobster. Take the lobsters and with a knife, cut them in half lengthwise , then crack the claw shells with a nutcracker to release the flavorful juices from the meat inside . Finely chop the shallot and
let it brown in a non-stick pan with the oil and unpeeled garlic cloves ; when the garlic is golden, remove it with kitchen tongs and place the lobsters in the pan , sautéing for 3-4 minutes.
Deglaze with white wine and cook over moderate heat for 2 minutes, then add the tomato puree , which should be quite thick. Cook for another 4-5 minutes, letting the sauce dry and occasionally turning the lobsters for even cooking .
When the lobsters are ready, remove them from the heat and place them on a cutting board ; extend the cooking of the tomato sauce for another 15 minutes, seasoning with salt and pepper . Meanwhile, place a pot of abundant salted water on the stove, which will be used for cooking the pasta. When the water is about to boil, cook the spaghetti al dente .
Drain the pasta and add it to the sauce , mixing well with a spatula or a wooden spoon .
Cut the lobster meat into chunks , then with a knife, cut the claws and retrieve the meat inside with a teaspoon . If you wish, you can save the shell for the final presentation.
Add the meat , keeping a small amount aside to decorate the dish, and sauté the spaghetti with the sauce for 2 minutes. Finally, turn off the heat and add finely chopped parsley to the spaghetti . Once ready ,
with the help of a ring mold, place the spaghetti on a serving plate : you can garnish with the lobster and the meat you set aside: your spaghetti with lobster in bellavista is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the spaghetti with lobster in bellavista piping hot. Freezing is not recommended.
Why not try making your spaghetti even more delicious by adding some clams or using lobster instead of lobster? Try it, and you won't regret it!

