name:
Spaghetti with Mussels and Sea Urchins
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Sea urchins: 10
Mussels: 0.9lb(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Parsley: 1tuft
Garlic: 1clove
White pepper: to taste
White wine: 4tbsp(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Spaghetti with mussels and sea urchins is a delicacy for those who love seafood dishes. In this dish, you will rediscover all the flavors and aromas of the Mediterranean sea. The spaghetti is cooked directly in the mussel water to absorb all the flavor, while the urchin pulp is added only at the last minute so as not to alter its distinctive taste. Mussels are not difficult to find, unlike sea urchins, which are not as widespread, although nowadays the eggs are also sold in glass jars in supermarkets. We recommend, where possible, using only fresh sea urchins to be opened and cooked at the moment. Spaghetti with mussels and sea urchins is an alternative to the classic pasta with mussels to enjoy the taste of the sea right from the first bite! And if you too are lovers of pasta with sea urchins, try a version with tomato and a gourmet variant worth discovering: spaghetti with cheese, pepper, and sea urchins , or taste our spaghetti with mussels and cherry tomatoes !
To prepare spaghetti with mussels and sea urchins, the first thing to do is How to clean sea urchins . Start by cutting the urchins with the appropriate tool , rinse the relevant part under running water, and with the help of a teaspoon, extract the eggs (the orange part) ; then set them aside in a small bowl .
At this point, heat the oil in a non-stick pan and lightly brown the garlic clove. As soon as it's golden, remove it and add the previously cleaned mussels (for all the instructions on how to clean mussels click here ). Deglaze with white wine and cover with a lid .
Let them cook for a few minutes until they open, then with a slotted spoon, gather all the mussels . Proceed by straining the mussel sauce , then put it back in the pan and bring it to a boil .
At this point, take the spaghetti and add them to the pan, cook as if it were risotto, adding boiling water as needed . Before adding another ladle of water, wait until the previous one is completely absorbed. Cook the spaghetti this way, stirring often, to prevent them from sticking .
In the meantime, as the spaghetti reaches cooking, shell the mussels and set them aside . As soon as the spaghetti is cooked, add the mussels and sea urchins .
Also add the parsley , a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil , and season with salt and white pepper. Serve the spaghetti with mussels and sea urchins as soon as they are cooked .
It is advisable to consume the spaghetti with mussels and sea urchins as soon as they are ready. Alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container for a maximum of one day. Freezing is not recommended.
To give a spicier note to the dish, you can add fresh chili pepper. However, if you want to enrich it even more, add some clams!
It's fairly recent news that sea urchins can reach the age of 200 years without showing obvious signs of aging or being affected by diseases. But even more surprising is the fact that the reproductive capacity of these animals is not compromised by age, which seems to work even better than in younger specimens!

