name:
Salmon Crepes
ingredients:
Eggs: 7oz(200 g)- (about 3 at room temperature)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)- (at room temperature)
Butter: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Smoked Salmon: 7oz(200 g)
Chives: 1bunch
Marjoram: 1sprig
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(25 g)
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes of resting

instructions:
Eggs, milk, flour, and lots of imagination: these are the ingredients to create the thousand and one versions of crepes ! With our salmon crepes, you can explore one of the many savory options, enjoy them like those stuffed baked ones ! Perfect for a meal where you want to create an original dish, delicious and easy to prepare even without waiting for special occasions. We took inspiration from the bundles with robiola and salmon , replicating the much-loved pairing of creamy cheese with smoked salmon, which you can also find in timeless first courses like salmon pasta , or in appetizing appetizers like Blinis .
Also try the recipe for Spring crepes for a delicious vegetarian alternative!
To make the salmon crepes, start by preparing the béchamel: in a small saucepan, melt the butter over low heat. Add the flour all at once and stir to create the roux. Gradually add the milk while continuing to stir. Keep cooking for about ten minutes, stirring constantly, this way the sauce will thicken . Finally, season with a pinch of salt and some nutmeg. Cover with cling film touching the surface and let it cool.
Now work on the crepe batter. Break the eggs into a large bowl , beat them and add the milk at room temperature . Mix thoroughly again to combine .
Sift the flour to add it to the egg mixture , mix everything until you obtain a smooth, velvety batter without lumps . You can always use a fork or switch to a hand whisk.
Cover the bowl with cling film and let it rest for at least 30 minutes in the refrigerator. Remove the batter from the fridge and mix for a few moments to revive it . Grease a non-stick pan (or a crepe maker) of 8 inches in diameter with a bit of butter. Heat it over medium heat.
As soon as it reaches temperature, pour a ladle of batter, enough to cover the surface , spread it evenly by gently shaking the pan (be careful not to let it go over the edges): we recommend performing these operations quickly, as the batter sets very fast. After a minute, the edges will retract: before flipping, make sure it's golden brown on the underside , flip it and let the other side cook for another minute .
Place the crepe on a plate . Cook all the crepes in the same way, with these quantities you will get 8. Once all the crepes are ready, you can prepare the filling. Chop the chives , strip the marjoram sprig to get the leaves. Cut the salmon into pieces about 0.4 inches .
In a bowl, pour the ricotta , add the béchamel , a pinch of salt
and a grind of pepper , mix with a spoon until you get a homogeneous mixture. Add the chives , the marjoram, and the salmon , mix everything.
The filling is ready . Now you can stuff your salmon crepes. Place the crepes on a cutting board, cover half of one side with the filling , fold over the non-filled side
and then fold again in half, creating a fan shape , stuff the other crepes in the same way. Arrange the salmon crepes in a baking dish that can hold them all and heat them for 10 minutes in a preheated static oven at 350°F. The salmon crepes are ready to be served, you can decorate them with a marjoram leaf .
The salmon crepes can be stored in the fridge for one day. We do not recommend freezing the complete dish.
You can let the crepe batter rest for up to 12 hours in the fridge, covered with cling film. If you prefer, you can also freeze the crepes once prepared and cooled: just stack them one on top of the other, placing a sheet of parchment paper between each crepe, and finally seal everything with cling film. Before using the desired quantity, just let them defrost and then fill them. Unfilled crepes can be stored individually in the fridge for a couple of days, covering them with cling film to prevent them from drying out.
To ensure your crepe batter is smooth and lump-free, we recommend using ingredients at room temperature and adding liquids gradually while stirring carefully with the whisk. If the ricotta has too much whey, drain it with a strainer.
Instead of ricotta, you can use another fresh and soft cheese like robiola.
Whole wheat crepes can also be made, find our recipe Whole wheat crepes with mascarpone and mushrooms .
Just extend the cooking on the stove to thicken it and achieve the right consistency.
Sift the flour well and incorporate it into the mixture gradually, stirring with the whisk.
For this variant, we recommend the recipe for gluten-free crepes which use rice flour.


