name:
Flatbread with Loquats and Rosemary
ingredients:
Loquat: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Whole grain flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: ½cup(120 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Fine salt: to taste
Goat: to taste
Wildflower honey: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
It is neither sweet nor savory, the schiacciata is a leavened bread! Are you not good at riddles? Neither are we, but we're good at guessing how much you'll love the flatbread with loquats and rosemary! The dough is reminiscent of the famous Grape Flatbread . What makes this kind of Sweet Fruit Pizza special is its versatility: with the addition of cheese (like goat cheese) it will have a salty and savory contrast. With the addition of honey, the sweet side of this loquat-filled leavened bread will burst forth. And the rosemary? The aromatic note that couldn't be missed to make the flatbread fragrant and special. The texture is also unique: the flatbread with loquats and rosemary will be crisp on the surface and soft at the heart. In short, it's all worth trying!
Also try the Easy and Quick Potato Flatbread , a perfect idea for an aperitif!
To prepare the flatbread with loquats and rosemary, start with the oil infusion. Pluck the rosemary needles and place them in a container with the oil . Mix and let it infuse for 8-10 hours .
After the time has passed, prepare the dough. In a small pitcher, pour the brewer's yeast and dissolve it with a fork . In a bowl, pour the whole wheat flour and 1/4 cup of sugar ,
then gradually add the water in which you dissolved the yeast, while mixing with a wooden spoon . When you have added about half of the water, add the salt and continue working the mixture .
As soon as you obtain a homogeneous mixture, transfer it onto the work surface and knead it for about ten minutes, until it becomes smooth . Place the dough in a large bowl and cover it with a damp cloth ,

let it rise for a couple of hours or until it has doubled in size . Once the dough is ready, wash the loquats, dry them, and remove the pits inside . Cut into wedges

and finally strain the oil . Now that you have everything ready, retrieve the leavened dough. Divide it in half with a bench scraper and roll out the two dough pieces with a rolling pin on a lightly floured surface, creating rectangles about 1/8 inch thick .


In a well-oiled rectangular baking tray, place the first layer , add about 2/3 of the loquat wedges , and sprinkle with 1/4 cup of sugar


and about half of the rosemary oil . Cover with the second dough layer and seal well with your fingertips .


Arrange the remaining part of the fruit on the surface , sprinkle with another 1/4 cup of sugar , and the remaining rosemary oil .



The flatbread with loquats and rosemary is ready to bake in a static oven, preheated to 355°F, for about 40 minutes . Once ready, serve it warm with honey or goat cheese of your choice .
It would be best to consume the flatbread with loquats and rosemary immediately. If needed, you can store it for a couple of days in a very cool place or in the refrigerator.
If you don't want to prepare the oil infusion, you can simply chop the rosemary needles and sprinkle them on both surfaces of your flatbread with loquats and rosemary.

