name:
Coconut Fried Rice
ingredients:
Basmati rice: 1cup(320 g)
Broccoli: 0.9lb(400 g)
Chard: 1
Cabbage: 0.7lb(300 g)- red
Leeks: 1
Coconut oil: 6 ½tbsp(30 g)
Shredded coconut: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Revamp your cold season menu with the coconut fried rice recipe, an entrée with exotic notes and exquisitely winter flavors. This dish combines traditional ingredients from Asian cuisines, such as basmati rice and coconut oil, with common seasonal vegetables like Swiss chard, broccoli, and purple cabbage. The use of coconut oil will add an unusual touch with its tropical flavor and unmistakable aroma. Coconut fried rice is a delightful comfort food, thanks to its combination of rich and aromatic ingredients. Perfect for warming the spirit during cold winter days and satisfying the palate with a variety of tastes and aromas that will make everyday rice special.
To prepare the coconut fried rice, clean the broccoli, remove the outer leaves, separate the florets and set them aside . Cut off the stem end and remove the tougher outer layer.
Cut the remaining stem in half and then into cubes . Clean the leek: remove the stalk and the green end, then take off the outer leaf, and slice it into rings . Clean the Swiss chard: remove the ends and separate the leaves from the stalks .
Cut the stalks in half and then into chunks . Also, chop the leaves into pieces . Finally, clean the purple cabbage: remove the end and cut it in half, then slice it into julienne .
Now bring a pot full of salted water to a boil and cook the rice until al dente . In a pan, pour the coconut oil , when hot add the leeks and cook for 3 minutes.
Add the cabbage and sauté everything over medium heat for 5 minutes, then add the chard leaves . After the first 5 minutes of cooking the rice, add the broccoli (florets and stems) to the pot .
Continue cooking and drain when the rice is al dente . Transfer the rice with the broccoli to the pan with the vegetables and sauté everything until the rice is fully cooked.
Once ready , salt and serve, adding grated coconut as desired . The coconut fried rice is ready to be served !
Coconut fried rice can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
We do not recommend freezing.
Coconut oil for culinary use can be purchased at ethnic grocery stores or organic product shops.

