name:
Watermelon Sorbet with Egg Whites
ingredients:
Watermelon: 4cups(600 g)- flesh
Sugar: 2cups(130 g)
Water: 1.1cups(270 g)
Lemon juice: 1
Egg whites: 1.1oz(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note Plus the time needed to cool the syrup and watermelon pulp in the refrigerator

instructions:
The sorbet is a summer dessert, very trendy in the 1980s and 1990s in restaurants as a "palate cleanser" during long meals, usually served with lemon . Today we show you the recipe for watermelon sorbet with egg whites! Sorbets are like ice creams but without milk or cream: only water, sugar, and fruit. They can be prepared with or without an alcoholic base, like our watermelon sorbet, an original and fresh way to enjoy watermelon, a typical fruit of the summer season. We show you how to make watermelon sorbet using an ice cream maker, but if you don't have one, don't worry; by following our advice, you can prepare it without one!
Here are some other watermelon recipes to try this summer:
To prepare the watermelon sorbet with egg whites, take the watermelon , remove the rind, and cut 600 grams (about 21 oz) of pulp (if you want, you can remove all the seeds beforehand) into cubes . Use a blender to puree the pulp .
Strain it to extract only the liquid part . Now prepare the sugar syrup: pour the water and sugar into a pot .
Bring it to a boil until the sugar dissolves . Transfer the syrup to a bowl and let it cool. Then place both the syrup and watermelon pulp in the refrigerator for at least half an hour to ensure they become well chilled. After the necessary time, juice a lemon with a citrus juicer and strain the juice.
After the cooling time, add the sugar syrup and lemon juice to the watermelon pulp. Whip the egg whites until stiff peaks form .
Add them to the watermelon mixture and mix well using a whisk until you get a homogeneous mixture .
Pour the well-chilled mixture into the ice cream maker and let it churn until you get a creamy sorbet , which will take about 20-30 minutes. Serve the watermelon sorbet with egg whites well chilled and enjoy immediately.
Store your sorbet in the freezer for 3-4 days in an airtight container. When you take it out of the freezer to eat, stir it with a fork for a few minutes to break up any ice that forms on the surface.
If you don't have an ice cream maker, place the mixture in a bowl and put it in the freezer, remembering to break it up with a fork every half hour until you achieve the desired creaminess and density for your sorbet. It will take about 3 hours.

