name:
Modern Watermelon and Pistachio Cake
ingredients:
Pistachio flour: 6tbsp(50 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- soft
Brown sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Cornstarch: 1 ½tbsp(10 g)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)
Baking powder: ¾tsp(3 g)
Ground pistachio: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Fresh liquid cream: 0.67cup(150 g)
Watermelon: 1lb(450 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
Powdered sugar: 50
Watermelon: 1.3cups(200 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.2oz(5 g)
Ground pistachio: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 6
Note + 3 hours of resting in the freezer

instructions:
Fresh, refined, and delicious, our modern cake with watermelon and pistachios is a dessert that will surprise you at the first bite. The most beloved fruit of summer dresses in elegance and enriches this delightful dessert with taste and color. A special crust, made with pistachio crumbs, supports a fluffy base that captures all the freshness of watermelon. Dedicated to all aspiring pastry chefs who love experimenting with new combinations and impressing their guests with scenic and delicious desserts! And if you're a watermelon lover, try this sorbet too!
To make the cake, start with the base: in a bowl, pour the sugar , the butter cut into pieces , and the salt .
Work the ingredients with an electric mixer for a couple of minutes . Add the eggs and continue mixing until all the ingredients are combined. Now incorporate the pistachio flour .
Add the cornstarch , the baking powder , and the pistachio crumbs .
Mix until you get a homogeneous mixture . Butter and line with baking paper the inside of an 18 cm (7 inches) ring and place it on a baking tray . Pour the mixture here and level it with the back of a spoon . Bake in a static oven at 356°F for 15 minutes.
Soak the 10 g of gelatin sheets in cold water . Cut 300 g of watermelon pulp into pieces, put them in a tall glass , and blend with an immersion blender .
Once blended , pour a little of the obtained juice into a saucepan , add the soaked and squeezed gelatin and heat until fully dissolved.
At this point pour the juice with gelatin into the remaining blended watermelon juice and emulsify with an immersion blender .
In a bowl, pour the cream and powdered sugar, work with the beaters until you get a semi-whipped mixture . Pour the watermelon juice into the cream .
Gently blend with a whisk . Transfer to the refrigerator until use. Cut 150 g of watermelon into cubes of about 1.5/2 cm (0.6/0.8 inches) and pour them into the cream .
Retrieve the cooked and cooled base and unmold it . Place the ring on a tray lined with baking paper, insert a sheet of acetate of the same size inside it .
Place the biscuit inside . Pour the cream and transfer the cake to the freezer for about 2 hours.
After the firming time, work on the coating: soak the 5 g of gelatin and blend 200 g of watermelon . As done previously, pour a little of the mixture into a saucepan and heat it. Add the soaked and squeezed gelatin and mix until fully dissolved.
Pour the juice with gelatin into the remaining mixture , mix with a spoon. Strain the mixture with a fine mesh sieve and pour over the surface of the cake .
Transfer to the freezer for about 1 hour or in the refrigerator for 4 hours . Once firm, unmold the watermelon mousse cake . Decorate with pistachio crumbs before serving .
The modern watermelon and pistachio cake can be stored in the fridge for 3-4 days.
When incorporating the watermelon juice into the semi-whipped cream, make sure to do it gently, using a spatula to avoid deflating the cream. This will help maintain the lightness of the cream and ensure a more airy and velvety texture, perfect for the mousse that will envelop the base.

