name:
Watermelon and Tofu Bowl
ingredients:
Watermelon: 3cups(450 g)- to clean
Strawberries: 4.6oz(130 g)
Peach: 1
Apricots: 4
Plums: 2
Lemon peel: 1
Thyme: to taste
Tofu: 6.4oz(180 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Wildflower honey: 2tsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
The watermelon and tofu bowl is a fresh and colorful dish to enjoy for breakfast, which lets you rediscover the savory side of fruit. Like the typical Acai bowl that have become popular in recent years, this watermelon and tofu bowl is also a genuine and nutritious dish, perfect for starting the day healthily, highlighting the fruits that the season offers us. With the arrival of the first warm days, we couldn't miss watermelon in our bowl, so fresh and sweet, representing the emblem of summer. The vegan combination with gently marinated tofu will let you discover new and captivating flavors!
To prepare the watermelon and tofu bowl, first make the tofu marinade: in a bowl, pour the juice of half a lemon, the olive oil , the honey , then salt and pepper.
Place the piece of tofu in the bowl and let it absorb the flavors from all sides, cover with plastic wrap , and put it in the fridge, just enough time to cut the fruit. Occasionally, you can turn it. Move on to the fruit: wash the fruits carefully (as you will not remove the peel) and then cut the strawberries into cubes of the same size.
The peach , the plums , and the apricots .
Remove the outer skin of the watermelon , extract the pulp (about 11 oz) , and cut it into slices .
Then cut it into cubes of about 3/4 inch . Mix all the fruit in a large bowl and drizzle with lemon zest .
Flavor with fresh thyme . Mix to combine . After this, take the tofu, remove it from the marinade , making sure to set the marinade aside to season the bowls.
Cut the tofu in half like a sandwich , grease a grill with oil and heat it on the stove . Grill the tofu on both sides for a few minutes, just long enough to see the typical grill marks appear.
Cut the tofu first into sticks and then into cubes. Everything is ready to assemble the fruit bowls: fill each bowl with the fruit mix , add a few tofu cubes ,
flavor with a teaspoon of the reserved marinade , finish with more fresh thyme , and here is the watermelon and tofu bowl ready .
It is recommended to consume the watermelon and tofu bowl within the day. Freezing is not recommended.
Enrich the watermelon and tofu bowl with some crushed hazelnuts to add a pleasant crunch!

