name:
Watermelon Daiquiri with Melon Skewers
ingredients:
White Rum: 2.7oz(80 ml)
Watermelon: ¼cup(60 ml)- juice
Lime juice: ½
Sugar syrup: 4tsp(20 ml)
Mint: to taste
Cantaloupe: 7.1oz(200 g)
Camembert cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- buffalo
Chili oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Have you already booked your vacation to the Caribbean? If the answer is no, then don't worry, because we will take you directly to the scorching white sandy Caribbean beaches! How? Thanks to the watermelon daiquiri with melon skewers! An innovative version compared to the classic rum-based cocktail, lime juice, and sugar syrup. We wanted to enrich the cocktail with two summer star ingredients: watermelon, which is the base of our cocktail, and melon, which serves as a little appetizer to go with it. You will find the watermelon daiquiri with melon skewers a very appetizing aperitif, and to make sure even the kids enjoy being with you, prepare a two-colored granita with the same ingredients! And if you want to make the evening more intriguing, just play a fun board game... like a Rubik's cube with melon! In short, this summer you might not really go to the Caribbean, but between watermelon daiquiri with melon skewers and the other great ideas, we surely gave you some interesting inspiration!
To prepare the watermelon daiquiri with melon skewers, start by placing the two glasses in the freezer that will be used to serve the drink. Move on to the skewers. After peeling the melon , cut it into two slices, preferably horizontally, and use a melon baller to get 4 balls from each slice: 8 spheres in total . Then cut the camembert into cubes the same size as the melon balls: get 4 pieces of about 0.88 oz each .

Brush the cheese cubes with chili oil and skewer first a melon ball , then the cheese, and another melon ball .
Do the same with the others, obtaining 4 skewers . Refrigerate them for a moment and focus on the daiquiri. After slicing the watermelon, cut it into coarse pieces and place them in a blender to puree them .
Once you have a sauce, strain it to collect seeds and any pulp pieces , and pour it into a shaker along with the rum , lime juice ,
and the syrup . Add some ice cubes , close, and shake it all .
Place the strainer , pour into the glasses, and serve with the skewers . Your watermelon daiquiri with melon skewers is ready .
Once the watermelon daiquiri with melon skewers is ready, any form of storage is not recommended.
Instead of lime, you can use classic lemon juice to flavor your watermelon daiquiri with melon skewers. If you don't like or can't find camembert, opt for a timeless classic: mozzarella balls!

