name:
Candied Watermelon (Gliko shalqini)
ingredients:
Watermelon: 1.5lbs(690 g)- the rind
Sugar: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Water: ¾cup(200 g)
Lemon juice: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Vanilla bean: 2

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 1 h 35 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + 24 h of resting

instructions:
Red, incredibly juicy, sweet, and fragrant, watermelon is the true and only queen of summer. Sliced to bring to the beach or the mountains, eaten with a spoon in granita or enjoyed in a cocktail and even in salad , it always wins. However, as you know, there is a significant part of watermelon that is often discarded: the rind. One of our chefs in the kitchen has thought of suggesting a recipe from her homeland, Albania: candied watermelon (Gliko shalqini), made precisely from watermelon rind. Candied watermelon is made into small bites and in Albania, it’s customary to offer them as a sweet gift to friends or relatives who stop by for coffee or a visit. There’s no need for a special occasion to be happy about someone's visit and to thank them for the time they’ve dedicated to us. Moreover, what better way, besides jam , to capture the full summer flavor of watermelon and keep it in the pantry all year round?
To prepare candied watermelon, start with the rind, which must be thoroughly cleaned of red flesh and then cut into strips . Then peel the rind, removing the darker part, using a peeler . Cut into cubes of about 3/8 inch and now you will have to repeat this operation three times to ensure the rind has the right consistency .
Fill a pot with cold water and immerse the cubes . As soon as it comes to a boil, cook them for 10 minutes then drain them .
Repeat this process 2 more times . On the third and final time, drain the cubes, placing them in a bowl and then cover with plenty of cold water .
Leave the cubes to soak for 24 hours, ensuring you change the water 7-8 times throughout the day . At this point, weigh the cubes and remember that for every kilogram of boiled rind, an equal weight of sugar is needed. In our case, we obtained 1.1 lbs of cubes, so we poured 1.1 lbs of sugar into the pot. The water should barely cover the sugar, so ensure this in the pot before proceeding. In our case, 7 oz of water was needed .
Turn on the burner and let the mixture reach a viscous consistency similar to honey; it generally takes 20/25 minutes. Squeeze the lemon and strain the juice , add the split vanilla bean to the syrup , and then the strained juice .
Add the rind cubes and let them cook for about 50 minutes on very low heat, stirring occasionally . Once the cubes are candied, turn off the heat, remove any foam on the surface using a skimmer, and then cover with the lid .
Let cool completely at room temperature , then transfer into a jar and seal . The candied watermelon is now ready, store it in the refrigerator .
Candied watermelon can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of months. Freezing is not recommended.
To prepare candied watermelon, it's necessary to use a watermelon with a firm and thick rind. The vanilla aroma is very pleasant, so we advise against not using the beans. At most, you can replace it with citrus peel like lemon or orange as desired.
When hosting guests in Albania, except in the case of mourning, it’s customary to serve something sweet: a pastry, candy, chocolates, or candied watermelon. The custom is to also offer a glass of fresh water because candied watermelon is particularly sweet. In our version, we thought of reducing the amount of sugar.
Homemade preparation of preserves and jams may pose health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the necessary conditions and measures to ensure food safety and suitability, which industrial procedures can provide to prevent hazardous contamination. It is important to meticulously follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but one must always remember that the same food safety level as professionally produced preserves and jams cannot be achieved. For appropriate preparation of homemade preserves, refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

