name:
Watermelon Jam
ingredients:
Watermelon: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Orange juice: 2.4oz(70 g)
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus 30 min to drain the watermelon

instructions:
When watermelons are at the peak of their sweetness, there's nothing better than eating them fresh... or preserving their flavor for the winter by making a colorful watermelon jam. During cooking, the watermelon will lose a lot of water, resulting in a sweet concentrate to enjoy at any time of the day. You can spread it on toasted bread, like all jams, or use it to personalize your desserts, enrich your pies, or serve it with a scoop of fiordilatte ice cream . Watermelon jam will be a truly original idea, and your guests will appreciate it greatly!
To prepare the watermelon jam, sanitize the jars where you want to store it as indicated on the Ministry of Health website. Cut the watermelon into pieces , remove the rind and seeds . Cut the pulp into cubes (you will need about 2 lbs of pulp in total).
Transfer them to a strainer placed inside a bowl and let drain for at least 30 minutes. Then pass the watermelon pieces into a large pot, add the sugar and the orange juice .
Cook over low heat , stirring often for about 40 minutes . Let it cool slightly and transfer it to a blender .
Blend everything and transfer it to a sanitized jar . You can choose to enjoy your jam immediately , or for longer preservation, you can boil the jars following the Ministry of Health guidelines found at the bottom of the page.
Store the watermelon jam in the refrigerator and consume within two months. Once the jar is opened, consume it within 5 days, always keeping it in the fridge.
Flavor your jam with lavender flowers, orange zest, chopped mint, and other aromas of your choice.
Homemade preparation of preserves and jams can present health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the necessary conditions and measures to ensure the safety and suitability of food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures can ensure to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to strictly follow the food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it must always be kept in mind that the same food safety as professionally produced preserves and jams can never be achieved. For correct preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the Ministry of Health guidelines .

