name:
Watermelon Alcoholic Popsicles
ingredients:
Watermelon: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- to clean
Vodka: 4.2oz(120 g)
Greek yogurt: ½cup(120 g)
Powdered sugar: ¼cup(35 g)
Kiwi: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + approximately 6 hours of cooling

instructions:
Once upon a time, there was a round watermelon that was undoubtedly the freshest in the world. Initially, it was simply enjoyed in slices, pure and strictly cold. Then we discovered it's also good in drinks , in salads , cut into cubes, or as savory finger food stuffed with cheese. Inspired by so much freshness and sweetness, we also created desserts and even an unconventional, delicious, and colorful pizza . This time, undecided between ice cream and cocktail, we chose not to compromise by creating watermelon popsicles with a pleasant alcoholic note to discover with the first bite. With a clever alternation of flavors, we simulated the typical watermelon colors, making these fresh and delicious sticks even more inviting!
To make the watermelon popsicles, first cut the watermelon into slices, then remove the rind , cut it into pieces , and remove the seeds. Obtain 530 g (about 1 lb 2.7 oz) of pulp and pour it into the bowl of the blender .
Blend the pulp until you get a smooth mixture . Strain it through a sieve and incorporate the vodka .
Mix and pour the liquid into the popsicle mold , leaving 1 inch of space from the edge . Close with the mold lid, position the sticks, taking care to secure them with small wooden clips so they don't fall to the bottom . Let them set in the freezer for 2-3 hours.
Meanwhile, pour the yogurt and 20 g (about 1/4 cup) of powdered sugar into a glass , mix to combine , and then transfer the obtained cream into a disposable piping bag without a nozzle .
After the chilling time, remove the popsicles, squeeze a layer of cream . Always leave some space from the edge, which will be filled with the last mixture . Close with the lid and place back in the freezer for at least 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, peel the kiwi and cut it into pieces . Pour the pieces into the blender , add 15 g (about 1 tablespoon) of powdered sugar and blend.
You should get a smooth sauce . After 30 minutes, take the popsicles and finish with the last green layer . This time fill to the edge .
Close again with the lid and place in the freezer for at least 2 hours. When the popsicles are completely frozen, remove the cover, the sticks should remain firmly in the popsicle. You can place the mold under running water for a moment, being careful not to wet the popsicles: this will help you unmold the popsicles more easily. Gently remove the popsicles from each mold , being careful not to break them, and serve immediately. Your watermelon popsicles are ready to be enjoyed .
The alcoholic watermelon popsicles can be stored in the freezer, in the appropriate mold, for a month.
By omitting the vodka, the popsicles will become a refreshing summer snack for the whole family!
If you want to increase the alcoholic note, we advise increasing the amount by a maximum of 20-30 grams (about 3/4 to 1 oz) otherwise, there is a risk that they won't solidify!

