name:
Watermelon and Goat Cheese Finger Food
ingredients:
Watermelon: 1.3cups(200 g)- baby variety (the weight of the one used)
Goat: 0.4lb(160 g)
Chives: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Summer calls for fresh foods... and August calls for watermelon! We've thought of summer evenings and lovers of this fruit (which also feels a bit like a vegetable!) for the watermelon and goat cheese finger food recipe! Small appetizers made with just two ingredients: cubed baby watermelon and a dollop of goat cheese cream. The result? A fresh, surprising, delightful bite of fruit and cheese that will also solve a last-minute terrace aperitif with friends from the sea in just a few moves! And considering that this fruit-vegetable is a cucurbit (try tasting the white part, which has the same flavor as cucumber), you could almost organize a watermelon-themed party covering almost all courses: watermelon and goat cheese finger foods served with watermelon caipiroska , an unusual watermelon salad , and to finish, a fresh and lively dessert: watermelon pizza ! We certainly don't lack ideas, nor the desire to celebrate... so let's start chilling the baby watermelon!
To prepare the watermelon and goat cheese finger foods, start with the well-chilled baby watermelon: you'll need about 7 oz in total, so cut off the top , make slices approximately 1 inch thick , and make cuts about 1 inch apart ;
do the same in the other direction to create a grid. Remove the white and green parts and get your 20 cubes , then with a small melon baller, create an indentation in each cube (5-6). You can reuse the discarded interior by tossing it in a refreshing fruit salad.
In a bowl, pour the goat cheese and extra virgin olive oil , salt, and pepper ; add the chopped chives, taking the greenest and most fragrant part
and mix everything to combine . Once you have a smooth cream, transfer it to a disposable piping bag with a 1/4-inch star tip.
Fill each cube with a tuft of goat cheese cream , sprinkle with more chopped chives to taste , and serve your watermelon and goat cheese finger foods !
It is not recommended to store the finger foods but to consume them immediately.

Want to make your watermelon and goat cheese finger foods even more special? You could enrich the cream with pitted and chopped black olives or flavor it with fresh thyme or oregano!





