name:
Watermelon and Yogurt Cups
ingredients:
Greek yogurt: ½cup(125 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.3cup(70 g)
Powdered sugar: 2tbsp(15 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.2oz(5 g)
Watermelon: 1.67cups(250 g)- pulp
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Dark chocolate chips: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus 2 hours of chilling in the fridge for the layers

instructions:
Watermelon and yogurt cups are a simple and delicious dessert, ideal for ending a summer lunch or dinner with freshness and goodness. With a few ingredients, you'll be able to prepare a fresh dessert that will win everyone over. You just need to make a thick and enveloping yogurt cream by mixing yogurt and whipped cream with a bit of gelatin. Pair the yogurt cream with one of the symbols of summer: watermelon! After cutting it into cubes, blend it and create a delightful jelly, which you will alternate with the cream in different layers. The secret of this irresistible dessert is patience: each layer must set in the fridge for at least an hour, so that, once ready, the spoon encounters creamy resistance. The result will be a series of pretty "striped" cups decorated with delicious chocolate chips that will resemble watermelon seeds. Prepare the watermelon and yogurt cups, and you'll be licking your lips with every layer!
To prepare the watermelon and yogurt cups, start by soaking the two doses of gelatin in 2 separate bowls filled with cold water for about 10 minutes . After this time, heat two tablespoons of cream from the indicated amount in a saucepan for about 1 minute or in the microwave at full power for a few seconds. Once the two tablespoons of cream are heated, dissolve a dose of squeezed gelatin in them and mix well. Pour the rest of the cream into a bowl and whip it with powdered sugar . Find out how to make this process perfect by consulting the Cooking School: how to whip cream .
Add the whipped cream to the yogurt and then also add the now lukewarm gelatin and cream mixture . After mixing the composition, pour 1/4 into each cup, leveling it well, and put in the fridge to set for 30 minutes . Keep the remaining yogurt mixture at room temperature.
In the meantime, prepare the watermelon jelly: once halved, cut a thick slice, then remove the rind . First, cut it into fairly wide sticks and then into cubes .
Transfer the cubes to a blender and blend until you get a puree, which you will filter into a bowl with a sieve to remove the seeds . Take 2 tablespoons of watermelon puree and transfer them to a small bowl .
Heat the 2 tablespoons of watermelon puree in a saucepan for 1 minute or in the microwave at full power for a few seconds, then squeeze the other sheet of gelatin that you had soaked in cold water and dissolve it in the 2 tablespoons of watermelon puree . After mixing the composition, add it to the rest of the watermelon puree . Then after 30 minutes, take the cups with the first yogurt layer out of the fridge, which will now be solidified, and pour the watermelon jelly over it, creating a layer the same thickness as the yogurt . Put the cups back in the fridge for 30 minutes and keep the remaining part at room temperature.
After this time, continue by forming another layer of yogurt cream , let it set for another 30 minutes in the fridge, and finish with a layer of watermelon jelly . Let it solidify for at least another 30 minutes and finally decorate the last layer with chocolate chips, as if they were watermelon seeds . Serve your watermelon and yogurt cups and enjoy every layer!
Store the watermelon and yogurt cups in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for 3-4 days. You can freeze the cups and then thaw them in the fridge 1 hour before consuming.
Tips for delight: try flavoring the watermelon jelly with a few drops of lemon and flavoring the yogurt with a vanilla bean or a sachet of vanilla!

