name:
Watermelon Granita with Wild Strawberries and Vodka
ingredients:
Watermelon: 2 ½cups(600 g)- pulp
Wild strawberries: ½cup(100 g)
Vodka: 1oz(30 g)
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Lemon juice: 3tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low

instructions:
How many times during your summer strolls have you stopped at an ice cream shop and opted for a refreshing granita to refresh yourself? You must have wondered about the secret of its deliciousness, and we will explain step by step how to prepare this delightful dessert directly at home. We offer you an original and tasty idea, similar to the sorbet , which will leave all your friends speechless: watermelon granita with wild strawberries and Vodka! Watermelon, one of the most thirst-quenching and refreshing summer fruits, pairs with wild strawberries to create an explosive mix of sweetness, all to be enjoyed! The addition of vodka will give an irresistible flavor touch to the dessert, perfect to savor after your meal or even for a refreshing aperitif different from the usual... have you, for instance, already tried the Red Wine Granita ?
To prepare the watermelon, wild strawberries, and Vodka granita, first take the watermelon: with a knife, score it until you cut it in half , then slice it and subsequently cut it into small pieces.
In a blender, pour the diced watermelon and wild strawberries , then squeeze the lemon and strain the juice using a sieve .
Pour the lemon juice along with the watermelon and strawberries , then add the vodka , the sugar , and blend everything until you obtain a rather fluid consistency.
Pour the mixture into an ice cream maker and let it run for 30 minutes . After 30 minutes, your watermelon, wild strawberries, and Vodka granita is ready to be enjoyed !
You can store the watermelon, wild strawberries, and Vodka granita for up to a month in the freezer.
If you prefer, you can replace the Vodka with prosecco or sparkling wine and use the seasonal fruit you like, for example, you can try raspberries instead of wild strawberries!

