name:
Pineapple and Speck Carpaccio
ingredients:
Pineapple: 1
Speck: 7oz(200 g)- thinly sliced
Oregano: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (in flakes)
Grape gelatin: to taste
Taralli (Round breadsticks): to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Plumcake or sorbet ? When we talk about pineapple, we immediately think of the two most significant moments of the meal: fruit and dessert (there's also coffee and digestif...). But today we present a very original way to serve this fruit in combination with the most famous of Tyrolean cured meats. Here is the recipe for pineapple and speck carpaccio, an appetizer that spans different flavors. The speck is savory while the pineapple is a pleasant contrast between sweetness and acidity. To make it even more inviting, we decided to pair it with grape jelly, which gives that strong, caramelized flavor note, almost tending to bitterness, that will make your taste buds do a couple of somersaults. Yes, because in summer, carpaccio is almost a must! We are sure that you will soon fall in love with this pineapple and speck carpaccio and will probably want to experiment with other fruit versions. For example, the one based on fig , or even Salmon carpaccio with lime guacamole , but always in combination with fruit, this time avocado.
To prepare the pineapple and speck carpaccio, start by peeling the fruit. Cut off the green part and then remove the rind . Slice the pineapple using a slicer for extremely precise work: but if you don't have one, a sharp knife will do .

Once all the slices are obtained , proceed to compose them on the serving plates. Then alternate the pineapple slices with the speck slices . With a peeler or a smooth blade, obtain small and not too thick cheese shavings .
Distribute them on the surface along with fresh oregano and surround with small bowls filled with taralli and grape jelly . Here is the pineapple and speck carpaccio ready, serve immediately .
Once the pineapple and speck carpaccio is ready, it is recommended to consume it immediately.
Instead of grape jelly, you can accompany your pineapple and speck carpaccio with vincotto or sapa!

