name:
Pineapple Mimosa Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 6- medium
Sugar: 12tbsp(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.6cup(75 g)
Potato starch: 0.67cup(75 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Whole milk: 1 ¾cup(400 g)- fresh
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 6
Sugar: 0.7cup(140 g)
Cornstarch: 5 ½tbsp(45 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2.1cups(500 g)
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Pineapple: 2cups(500 g)- syrupy, drained
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Rum: 0.9oz(25 g)
Edible flowers: 7

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note plus the cooling time of the various preparations

instructions:
The classic mimosa cake is a traditional dessert, especially prepared for International Women's Day on March 8th. In this recipe, we offer an irresistible twist on this cake, enriched with the freshness of pineapple, which when added in cubes to the cream, gives it a slightly tangy note. Its flavor pairs well with the rich surrounding cream and it mirrors the yellow of the mimosa. The surface of this cake, as per tradition, is decorated with crumbled sponge cake and is completed with the addition of colorful and charming edible flowers. Prepare the pineapple mimosa cake and the surprise effect is guaranteed!
Also try these variants:
To prepare the pineapple mimosa cake, start with the sponge cake . In a bowl, sift together flour and potato starch . Slice the vanilla bean lengthwise and scrape out the seeds with a small knife. In the bowl of a stand mixer equipped with a whisk, pour in the eggs, a pinch of salt , and the vanilla seeds .
Add the sugar and beat everything for at least 10 minutes at medium speed until the mixture is fluffy, light, and frothy . Stop the mixer, place a strainer in the bowl and sift the flour and potato starch mixture again .
With a whisk or a spatula, gently fold it in with a motion from the bottom to the top to incorporate the powders well . Then pour the mixture into a 9.5-inch mold already greased and lined with parchment paper: it's important that the circumference has the parchment paper extending a little beyond the mold, this way it will help the cake rise upwards . Bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F for about 40 minutes. At the end of baking, carefully remove the paper and allow the cake to cool completely .
Move on to the custard. In a saucepan, pour the milk, cream , the scraped vanilla seeds , and the pod. Bring to a near boil. Meanwhile, in another bowl, pour the egg yolks and sugar ,
briefly beat , then add the cornstarch and mix again with the whisk until you get a homogeneous mixture.
As soon as the milk starts to boil, remove the vanilla pod from the milk mixture and pour it in a thin stream while stirring with the whisk . Transfer everything back into the saucepan and cook the custard until it thickens .
Transfer into a bowl, cover with cling film in contact , and allow to cool completely at room temperature. Take the pineapple, drain it, and cut it into cubes smaller than half an inch, and let it drain for 20 minutes .
Pour the cold cream into a large bowl, turn on the mixers at medium-high speed, and add the powdered sugar one tablespoon at a time . Beat until you have a stiffly whipped mixture. At this point, turn the custard into a diplomatic cream by adding half of the whipped cream first and stirring vigorously to temper . Then add the remaining part and incorporate more gently with movements from the bottom to the top .
Remove 14 oz of cream and transfer it into a small bowl , this will be for the coating. In the remaining part, pour the drained pineapple cubes and mix well . If you don't use the two creams immediately, cover with cling film and store in the refrigerator.
Now prepare the rum syrup. In a saucepan, pour the water and sugar, stir over high flame until the sugar has completely dissolved. Then off the heat, pour in the rum , this way most of the alcohol will evaporate, and mix well . Let it cool.
Move on to the assembly. Take the sponge cake, cut about 0.4 inches from the top and set it aside . Then with a sharp knife, cut around the cake about 0.8-1.2 inches from the edge and cut into the cake to remove the interior, without piercing the base, leaving about 0.8 inches .
Cut the interior of the sponge cake into 0.2-inch cubes and collect them in a bowl . Moisten the inside of the cake with a brush and then pour the cream with pineapple cubes in the middle .
Carefully level with a spoon and place the previously set aside disc on top: put the more browned side in contact with the pineapple cream . Moisten the surface of the cake as well .
Transfer the reserved cream onto the cake and cover the cake entirely by smoothing it well , sprinkle with all the cubes
and gently compact with your hands to entirely cover the whole surface . Let it set in the refrigerator for 3-4 hours, and then garnish with edible flowers before serving . Your pineapple mimosa cake is ready.
The mimosa cake can be kept in the refrigerator already assembled for up to 3-4 days. The sponge cake alone can be stored for 2 days wrapped in cling film, or frozen for up to 1 month. The custard can also be kept for 2-3 days in the refrigerator.
If you prefer a non-alcoholic version, use the pineapple syrup to moisten the sponge cake instead of the rum syrup!

