name:
Pineapple Jam
ingredients:
Pineapple: 5cups(800 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Oranges: 1- (the juice and the zest)
Lemon juice: 1
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Are you more of a croissant or toast with jam kind of person for breakfast? If you chose the second option, we have a recipe that will bring more zest to the most important meal of the day: pineapple jam! Not as well-known as more classic preserves, such as apricot or Peach Jam jam, pineapple jam will surprise you with its fresh and tantalizing flavor, with a pleasant spicy note from cinnamon. Moreover, just like its more famous cousins, it can be used to make delicious traditional desserts or exotic recipes: try it, for example, in nastar cookies ... you'll discover a world of sweetness ready to be savored!
To prepare pineapple jam, first make sure you have new lids and sanitized jars (following the Ministry of Health guidelines provided at the end of the recipe). Start by cleaning the fruit: cut off the top and bottom ends , then place the pineapple vertically on a cutting board and remove the peel with a knife . Finally, cut the pineapple into chunks, avoiding the tougher central part : you should get about 1 lb of cleaned pineapple (for more information, you can read our guide on how to clean and cut pineapple ).
Place the pineapple in a large saucepan and add the rest of the ingredients: the sugar , the cinnamon ,
the lemon juice , the grated zest of one orange , and its juice .
Cook over moderate heat for about 20 minutes, stirring occasionally , then transfer the mixture to a blender and blend until smooth .
Put the mixture back on the stove and cook for another 5-10 minutes; the time may vary depending on how much liquid is left. You should get a rather thick mixture . At this point, the jam is ready to be enjoyed or used in other delicious recipes ! If you want to store it for a longer period, transfer the still-hot jam into the previously sanitized jar and seal it by tightly screwing on the lid, then turn the jar upside down and let it cool completely. Before consuming, make sure the vacuum has been created by pressing down on the lid: if it makes a click-clack sound, it means the vacuum wasn't created correctly, and the jam cannot be consumed.
If the vacuum was successfully created, the pineapple jam can be stored for about 5-6 months away from light and heat sources. Once opened, you can keep the jar in the refrigerator for about a week.
If you wish, you can flavor your pineapple jam with the seeds from a vanilla bean or with a pinch of ginger, fresh or powdered!
Homemade preserves and jams can pose health risks. In a domestic environment, it's not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of the foods, which industrial procedures can guarantee to prevent dangerous contamination. It's therefore important to meticulously follow food safety guidelines to reduce the risks, but it's always important to remember that you will never achieve the same food safety as preserves and jams produced at a professional level. For the correct preparation of homemade preserves, we refer you to the Ministry of Health guidelines .

