name:
Pineapple Fritters
ingredients:
Pineapple: 4.5lbs(1.5 kg)- (to clean)
Water: 1cup(220 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Sugar: 3 ½tbsp(45 g)
Cinnamon powder: ¾tsp(4 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
In Indonesia they are called nanas goreng and are sweets much loved by both locals and tourists, but if you are already thinking about strange exotic ingredients or unknown cooking techniques, you are wrong… today we are preparing very simple pineapple fritters! Unlike our traditional apple fritters , in this case, the cinnamon is added directly to the batter to balance the tangy taste of the pineapple and give a pleasantly aromatic note. So easy and quick to prepare, pineapple fritters are great to enjoy with a scoop of vanilla ice cream or a bit of whipped cream… a delicious last-minute dessert that will delight lovers of exotic fruit!
Discover other typical Indonesian cuisine recipes, such as:

To make the pineapple fritters, first clean the pineapple : remove the top with the tuft , peel it , and slice it into rounds approximately 0.4 inches thick .
Then use a round cutter about 1.6 inches in diameter to remove the core from each slice ; alternatively, you can use the special tool. Move on to preparing the batter: pour the flour into a bowl , add the sugar
and the cinnamon , then add the water and mix with a whisk until you get a smooth and homogeneous mixture .
Fill a small saucepan with plenty of seed oil and bring it to a temperature of 338°F, checking it with the help of a thermometer. Thoroughly coat the pineapple slices in flour , then dip them in the batter , let the excess batter drain off, and gently immerse them in the hot oil . Fry a few pieces at a time to prevent the oil temperature from dropping.
Cook each fritter for about 3-4 minutes until they become golden brown , then drain them on a sheet of absorbent paper or frying paper and sprinkle them with granulated sugar . Your pineapple fritters are ready to be enjoyed while still warm !
It is recommended to consume the pineapple fritters as soon as they are ready.
To add an exotic taste to your pineapple fritters, you can replace the water with coconut milk!
For a gluten-free version, you can use rice flour.

