name:
Watermelon Tartlets
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 1
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- cold from the fridge
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Watermelon: 2 ¼cups(330 g)- (pulp)
Cornstarch: ½tbsp(20 g)
Lemon juice: ½tbsp(8 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Watermelon: 1cup(200 g)- pulp
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Watermelon, watermelon, melon... however you define this refreshing fruit, it is truly synonymous with summer! Who doesn't love enjoying it at the beach with friends, after a Sunday lunch as a dessert? We've also turned it into an original pizza , enjoyed it as a cold cake, put it " on ice " and in a jar as a delicious jam to satisfy a sudden craving for summer, all year round. Today we offer you another dessert, in delightful single servings: watermelon tartlets. The base is the classic lemon-flavored shortcrust pastry, while the filling and decoration enhance all the genuine freshness of the watermelon. Have fun composing your watermelon tartlets, perfect for a summer party, an outdoor aperitif, or a dinner with friends!
Prefer the "family size"? Try our recipe for melon jelly tart !
To prepare the watermelon tartlets, start with the shortcrust pastry: in a mixer, add the flour, cold butter from the fridge, and a pinch of salt . Blend everything in stages to obtain a sandy mixture. Add the powdered sugar , egg, and grated lemon zest .
Blend again until you get a homogeneous mixture to transfer to the work surface to quickly handle just enough time to compact everything and wrap it in plastic wrap . Place in the fridge to rest for at least 30 minutes.
While the pastry rests in the fridge, take care of the watermelon: take the slices and scoop out 7 oz of pulp with a melon baller to create balls by scooping the lower part of the slices (where there are usually no seeds) . You can clean the rest of the slice , cut the pulp into pieces (you'll need 11.5 oz), and remove the seeds .
After the pastry has rested, take it out and lightly flour the work surface. Roll out the pastry to a thickness of about 1/4 inch. Using a 3.5-inch diameter cookie cutter, cut out discs . Place them on 2.75-inch diameter cookie cutters .
Press the edges well and trim the excess . Prick the base with the tines of a fork , then line each tartlet with a square of parchment paper and ceramic weights or dried legumes, for blind baking in a preheated static oven at 340°F for about 25 minutes.
After this time, remove the paper and weights and bake for another 10 minutes still at 340°F, then take them out and let them cool slightly. Meanwhile, place the watermelon pieces in the mixer and activate the blades. The obtained pulp will be poured into a saucepan, filtering it with a sieve .
Turn on the medium-low heat and add the cornstarch , sugar , and 1/4 oz of lemon juice .
Mix with the whisk and bring to a boil. Then turn off the heat, wait a few moments, and then pour the still-warm mixture over the now-cold tartlets . It is important that the watermelon mixture is still warm to prevent it from solidifying too much before being poured onto the bases. Place in the fridge to set. When the tartlets are cold, remove the ring
and decorate the top with the watermelon balls and mint leaves . Your watermelon tartlets are ready to be enjoyed .
Watermelon tartlets can be stored for 2-3 days in the fridge.
The pastry can be kept in the fridge covered with plastic wrap for about a week. It can also be frozen.
Once the mixture has been poured over the tartlets, to recreate the seeds, you can add some chocolate chips. Instead of lemon, you can flavor the pastry base with vanilla.

