name:
Watermelon Gazpacho
ingredients:
Watermelon: 2.2lbs(1.2 kg)
Cluster tomatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Red peppers: 0.67cup(100 g)
White onions: 4.2oz(120 g)
Red wine vinegar: 1tbsp(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Almond flour: ½cup(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Goat: 5.25oz(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 5tsp(25 g)
Almond slices: 3 ½tbsp(25 g)
Edible flowers: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The gazpacho is a typical preparation of Iberian cuisine that has become very famous especially in recent years. There are indeed many beneficial properties of the tomato, the main ingredient of the recipe. Well, we have placed it, just for a moment, in second place by transforming the recipe into a very enticing version: watermelon gazpacho! A fresh and tasty appetizer, with a mix of flavors that clearly contrast sweetness and acidity along with a hint of savoriness! It will be a stunning mix for your taste buds. We served it like this, garnishing with edible flowers and toasted almonds in a pan, but nothing prevents you from accompanying the watermelon gazpacho with tarallini or homemade bread ! Are you ready to surprise and be captivated by this recipe? Let's get started!
To prepare the watermelon gazpacho, start by cleaning the fruit. After removing the rind , cut the flesh into pieces (you will need 450 g / approximately 1 lb) and place it in a bowl. Move on to the tomatoes: detach them from the stem, rinse, dry, and cut them into pieces, removing the stem .
Then clean the bell pepper and also cut it into large pieces . Peel the onion, roughly chopping it as well .
Transfer everything into the blender: watermelon, tomato , peppers , and the onion .
Activate the blades and obtain a puree. Transfer into a container with a sieve inside and strain, discarding the peel and seed residues . Season with red wine vinegar ,
oil , salt, pepper, and almond flour . Mix everything with a whisk and put it in the refrigerator for about an hour .
Toast the almonds in a small pan for a few minutes and set aside . Finally, prepare a cheese cream by mixing the cream with the goat cheese, mix well, and transfer into a piping bag .
Pour the mixture into a deep dish and garnish with a few dollops of goat cheese , the almond flakes
and some edible flowers . Finally, a mint leaf and your watermelon gazpacho is ready, just serve it cold !
Once the watermelon gazpacho is ready, it is recommended to consume it immediately. Any form of storage is not recommended.
To give your watermelon gazpacho a stronger taste, you can replace the almond flour with hazelnut flour, but the color will be affected. If you want to add a spicy note to the dish, add a few drops of Tabasco!

