name:
Pork Roast
ingredients:
Pork shoulder: 2.2lbs(1.2 kg)- boneless
Shallot: 1
Garlic: 2cloves
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Thyme: 2sprigs
Meat broth: 1cup(250 g)
Red wine: 1cup(250 g)
Cornstarch: 1spoonful
Butter: 1spoonful
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time in the fridge for the meat (30 min.)

instructions:
How to achieve a tender and juicy pork roast? Simple... with our recipe! We suggest cooking the roast in a pot with red wine, so as to obtain a delicious aromatic sauce to nap over the slices of meat. The preparation is simple and does not require the use of an oven, but to ensure an excellent result it is important to choose the right and quality ingredients... starting with the pork shoulder, a lean and flavorful cut from which the eye round is also obtained, ideal for long cooking like roasts. Served with classic oven-roasted potatoes or seasonal vegetables, pork roast is a main course that cannot be missed for a Sunday family lunch. Discover how to make it perfectly!
Here are other tasty variations of pork roast:

To prepare the pork roast, first tie the piece of meat with kitchen string so that it maintains its shape during cooking ; for more details, you can check our guide " How to tie a roast ". Salt and massage the meat to season it evenly , then let it rest in the fridge for 30 minutes.
After the resting time, peel the shallot and slice it . In a pot, pour the oil and butter . When the butter is melted, add the shallot .
Also add the crushed garlic cloves , sprigs of thyme and rosemary , then sauté over medium heat for a few minutes .
At this point, lay the meat in the pot and brown it on all sides over high heat for a total of about 5 minutes . Deglaze with the red wine .
Let the alcohol evaporate for about 5 minutes , then pour in the beef broth . Cover with the lid and cook for about 40 minutes on low heat, turning the roast halfway through cooking.
After the cooking time, remove the roast from the pot and remove the string , then wrap it in aluminum foil to keep it warm .
Now strain the cooking liquid into a small pot , then put it back on the heat and reduce it over medium heat to about half of its initial volume; this will take about twenty minutes. Meanwhile, in a separate small bowl, pour the cornstarch and a splash of water .
Stir well to completely dissolve the cornstarch . When the sauce is almost ready, add the mixture to the small pot and mix for a couple of minutes, then turn off the heat. You should achieve a consistency that coats the back of a spoon ; if the sauce turns out too thick, you can thin it with a little broth.
You are ready to plate: cut the meat into slices and arrange them on a serving plate, then garnish with aromatic herbs as desired . Drizzle with the red wine sauce and serve your pork roast immediately!
The pork roast can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, in an airtight container.
You can freeze it after cooking.
For a delicious result, we recommend using quality red wine.
If you prefer, you can substitute the beef broth with vegetable broth.

