name:
Meatballs with Agretti
ingredients:
Friar's beard (agretti): 11oz(300 g)- (to be cleaned)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Ground veal: 12oz(350 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- (to grate)
Eggs: 1
Milk: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Chives: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Mayonnaise: 2spoonfuls
Dijon mustard: 1tsp
Old-fashioned mustard: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you're in the mood for a second course that is different from the classic meatballs in tomato sauce , we suggest a delightful spring recipe: meatballs with agretti! Soft veal meatballs flavored with chives served with a side of agretti, a typical seasonal vegetable characterized by a grassy and delicately tangy flavor. A delicious combination completed by a simple sauce made with mayonnaise and mustard that adds character to the dish and a pleasant piquant note. Easy and versatile, meatballs with agretti can be customized and adapted to your tastes by varying, for example, the type of vegetables or sauce, or by seasoning the minced meat with your favorite spices.
If you love meatball recipes, don't miss these variations as well:
To prepare the meatballs with agretti, first, focus on the How to Clean and Cook Agretti : remove the base with the roots and soak them in a bowl containing water and a tablespoon of baking soda. Change the water 1-2 times until it is clean. In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, the unpeeled garlic cloves, and the chili pepper . Briefly sauté, then add the agretti .
Salt and sauté over medium heat for about 5 minutes, then set aside. Now, focus on the meatballs: finely chop the chives . Place the minced veal and the egg in a bowl .
Add the grated Parmesan , salt, and pepper , then pour in the milk .
Flavor with chives and knead until you get a homogeneous mixture . At this point, form the meatballs with slightly damp hands .
In the same pan where you cooked the agretti, pour a drizzle of oil and add the meatballs . Brown over medium heat for about 20 minutes, turning them to ensure they are colored on both sides . For the accompanying sauce, mix the mayonnaise with Dijon mustard .
Add the grainy mustard as well , mix , and transfer the sauce to a piping bag. Plate by placing the agretti at the bottom of the dish .
Place the meatballs on top of the agretti and finish with a few dollops of sauce . Your meatballs with agretti are ready to be served !
The meatballs with agretti can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for 2 days.
For a more robust flavor, you can replace the Parmesan with pecorino cheese.
The sauce can be customized to your liking: instead of mustard, try a yogurt and lemon cream, or a green sauce made with parsley, capers, and vinegar!

