name:
Salmon with Curry and Coconut Milk
ingredients:
Salmon fillets: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (4 pieces of 7 oz each)
Coconut milk: 1cup(250 g)
Curry paste: to taste- red
Broccoletti: 7.1oz(200 g)
White onions: 1
Garlic: 2cloves
Lime: 1- (juice and zest)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Natural plain yogurt: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The rich and buttery flavor of fresh salmon can be enjoyed in simple preparations like baked salmon or crispy salmon , but you'll appreciate it even more in this version! The salmon with curry and coconut milk is an exotic recipe where the aroma of spices meets a creamy and enveloping sauce. We also added broccoli, along with the tangy touch of lime and yogurt. Like many other dishes from Indian cuisine, such as Tandoori Salmon , the salmon with curry and coconut milk is ideal to be accompanied with basmati rice or Naan and can be served as either a main course or a one-dish meal!
Discover these delicious fish curries as well:

To prepare the salmon with curry and coconut milk, first cut the broccoli into florets , then clean the onion and slice it thinly . Finally, slice the garlic cloves .
Cut the salmon fillet into 4 equal parts , then salt and pepper the surface. Heat the oil in a large pan and place the fillets skin side down .
Sear the salmon for 4 minutes, then gently flip it to the other side and remove the skin, which should come off easily . Sear the other side for another 3 minutes .
Once browned, transfer the salmon fillets to a dish and keep them warm . In the same pan, add the onion and garlic .
Add the broccoli , curry paste , and coconut milk . Stir to combine everything.
Add the lime juice and zest and cook for about 7 minutes. At this point, place the salmon fillets back in the pan , lower the heat, and continue cooking with the lid on for another 4 minutes .
After this time, add some chopped parsley for aroma and garnish with a few dollops of yogurt . Your salmon with curry and coconut milk is ready to be served !
The salmon with curry and coconut milk can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
If you like the taste, you can replace the parsley with fresh cilantro!
Curry paste can be purchased at ethnic food stores or online: there are different types with varying degrees of spiciness.

