name:
Coconut and Pineapple Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Eggs: 5.5oz(155 g)- (approximately 3)
Shredded coconut: 1 ⅔cup(130 g)
Coconut milk: ½cup(130 g)
Brown sugar: ⅓cup(75 g)
Coconut oil: 0.4cup(95 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp(10 g)
Pineapple: 5cups(800 g)- (300 g cleaned)
Fine salt: ½tsp
Shredded coconut: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 12
Cost: Average

instructions:
Are exotic fruits your passion? The recipe we present here has united the most beloved ones: coconut, the star of many delights like the coconut and chocolate bars , soft coconut treats , and delicious Coconut cake ; pineapple, used to prepare, for example, the classic upside-down cake or an unusual pineapple jam . In the coconut and pineapple cake, sugary taste and freshness come together: a soft lactose-free batter with shredded coconut, coconut milk, and coconut oil embraces juicy pineapple slices, to discover at the first bite. The coconut and pineapple cake, so delicious and soft, is ideal as a dessert or for a treat at snack time. And because the eye also wants its part, we decorated the surface with a spiral pattern reminiscent of a rosebud, a refined touch that will make the cake perfect for any occasion! Also, discover how to prepare our delicious Coconut and Chocolate Cake !
To make the coconut and pineapple cake, first cut the pineapple into half-inch thick slices , then remove the outer part from each slice and the central core .
Take 200 g (7 oz) of these slices and cut them into strips . Set aside and work on the batter: in a bowl, pour the eggs and brown sugar . Whisk the mixture with an electric mixer and add the salt
Add the coconut oil , incorporate it into the mixture with the mixer, and then add the flour and baking powder
Give a round of mixing to incorporate the powders and then pour in the shredded coconut and the coconut milk gradually , operate the mixer again to incorporate it. Once the liquid is absorbed, add the pineapple slices
and stir with a spatula . Now butter a mold with an 8-inch diameter and a 4-inch high edge . Pour the batter in and level the surface with the back of a spoon
Now take 100 g (3.5 oz) of pineapple slices and, starting from the outermost part , arrange them in a spiral to create a floral pattern . Garnish the surface with the shredded coconut (18-19).
and bake the cake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 75 minutes on the middle shelf. Once cooked, take out the soft coconut and pineapple cake , let it cool slightly, then unmold and serve it !
The soft coconut and pineapple cake keeps well under a glass dome for 2-3 days. It can be frozen after baking.
If you can't find coconut oil, it can be replaced with vegetable oil, keeping the doses unchanged. To make the cake even tastier, you can add dark chocolate chips or rum.

