name:
Mini pineapple tatin
ingredients:
Pineapple: 1lb(450 g)- (5 slices)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(135 g)
Butter: ¼cup(65 g)- (cold from the fridge)
Water: ¼cup(45 g)- (cold)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Water: 2.4tbsp(35 g)
Butter: 1tsp(5 g)- at room temperature
Fiordilatte gelato: - 4 balls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 40 minutes for the resting of the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
If it is true that good wine comes in small barrels, what happens when an already delicious cake is prepared in tiny molds? Mini pineapple tatins are a delightful variant of the classic apple tarte tatin: this single-serving dessert is perfect as a dessert at the end of an elegant dinner or for a refined snack, with the sweetness of caramel meeting the fresh taste of pineapple. Mini pineapple tatins are enjoyed according to tradition: served fresh from the oven, still warm, accompanied by a scoop of ice cream to create an irresistible contrast of flavors and textures. If you are looking for a dessert that can give you a moment of pure pleasure, mini pineapple tatins are the perfect dessert for you.
To prepare the mini pineapple tatins, start with the shortcrust pastry: in a mixer, put the flour , the cold butter cut into pieces , and a pinch of salt .
Blend everything until you get a sandy, floury mixture . At this point, transfer the mixture onto a cold marble, metal, or glass surface and form the classic fountain shape. Gradually add the cold water , kneading quickly. Continue kneading with your fingers , trying to warm the dough as little as possible.
Work the dough quickly until it becomes compact, firm, and quite elastic . Once ready, wrap the shortcrust pastry in plastic wrap and let it rest in the fridge for at least 40 minutes. During this time, you can take care of the pineapple: cut off both ends
and peel the outer skin . Cut 5 slices, each 0.4 inches thick and, using a 1.2-inch diameter round cutter, remove the central woody part of each slice .
Now, using a 4-inch diameter round cutter, further trim 4 of the 5 pineapple slices to obtain 4 perfectly round and equal slices, then set them aside for a moment. Take the other pineapple slice, using the 1.2-inch cutter, cut out 4 small rounds from the tenderest and juiciest part of the slice . Then cut the remaining part of the slice into cubes about 0.2 inches .
Set the pineapple aside and proceed to prepare the caramel: pour the sugar into a thick-bottomed saucepan, then add the water and bring to a boil . Let it simmer on very low heat until the sugar has a nice amber color. At this point, add the butter at room temperature
and mix well until it is completely melted. Once the butter has melted, remove the saucepan from the heat and immerse it in a basin full of cold water without letting the water enter the saucepan. This will stop the caramel from cooking. Take 4 molds 4 inches in diameter and pour the caramel ,
to evenly cover the bottom . At this point, place a pineapple slice in each mold and close the central hole with the rounds you previously cut out with the round cutter .
Then distribute the diced pineapple evenly over each slice . At this point, take the shortcrust pastry from the fridge and roll it out to a thickness of 0.2 inches. Take a round cutter with a diameter of 4.5 inches and cut out 4 pastry discs .
Cover each mold with the shortcrust pastry disc and, pressing gently with your fingers, seal the edges well . Prick the surface with the prongs of a fork .
Place the molds on the baking sheet and bake the mini tatins in a preheated oven at 340°F for 35 minutes, making sure to place the baking sheet in contact with the bottom of the oven. Use the static mode of the oven. After 35 minutes, raise the baking sheet to the middle of the oven and let it bake for another 15 minutes to color the surface. Once cooked, remove the mini tatins from the oven and let them cool for 3-4 minutes . Unmold them while still warm: otherwise, the caramel will harden, and it will no longer be possible to remove them from the mold. The tarte tatins should be served upside down: so take one mold at a time with an oven mitt
and place a plate on top , flip the mold , and let them slide onto the plate: if necessary, gently detach the tatin with the tip of a knife .
Let the syrup created during cooking drip down the edges of the shortcrust pastry and then place a scoop of vanilla ice cream on the pineapple slice . Serve them immediately, still warm . Your mini pineapple tatins are ready to be enjoyed!
It is recommended to consume the mini pineapple tatins as soon as they are ready. However, you can store them for 2-3 days in the refrigerator, already unmolded and plated, well covered. When you want to consume them, remove them from the fridge and briefly warm them in the oven, then add the scoop of ice cream and serve. Freezing is not recommended.
You can flavor your mini tatins in many different ways: by adding the seeds of a vanilla pod during the caramel cooking, grating a bit of lemon zest on the pineapple, or substituting the ice cream with whipped cream. It's up to you!

