name:
Pineapple and Lemon Salmon Skewers
ingredients:
Pineapple: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Salmon fillets: 8.8oz(250 g)
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 ml)
Mint: 40leaves
Thyme: 3sprigs
Dill: 3sprigs
Red pepper: ½tsp(3 g)- in grains
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 ml)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 2 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + marinating time

instructions:
When you prefer a light and tasty dish, what could be better than a good skewer? There are really endless variations, and today we have decided to make a very fresh and delicious one with pineapple and salmon. Excellent as an appetizer or as a aperitif, pineapple and lemon salmon skewers are a fresh dish that will bring color to your table. Have fun assembling your skewers and make a marinade with oil, lemon, herbs, and pink pepper. Sear in a pan and... you're done!
To prepare pineapple and lemon salmon skewers, start by cleaning the pineapple . Proceed by placing the pineapple horizontally on a cutting board; first, remove the base by making a cut of about 1-1.5 inches, and then the crown, cutting it off with a knife . Remove the woody inner part with a corer, inserting it at the center of the pineapple starting from one end ; once you reach half the length of the fruit, extract it and repeat the operation starting from the opposite side. Hold the pineapple firmly and cut the peel laterally .
With the tip of a knife or a potato peeler, remove the remaining eyes . Cut the pineapple vertically and create cubes .
After completing this procedure, set the fruit aside. Now start cleaning the salmon fillets; with a knife, remove the skin from the flesh . By running your fingertip over the flesh, check for any remaining bones, and remove them with kitchen tweezers . Cut the salmon and make cubes just like for the pineapple; set the fish aside.
Prepare the marinade: take the aromatic herbs and pluck the thyme and dill ; roughly chop everything with a knife. In a bowl, pour the oil and the lemon juice. Add the chopped thyme and dill to the liquid .
Add the pink pepper , and finally salt to taste ; mix well and set the marinade aside. Proceed now with preparing the skewers: thread a mint leaf, a salmon cube, mint again, and a pineapple cube. Repeat the operation for all skewers, finishing with a mint leaf .
Place your pineapple and salmon skewers in a baking dish and drizzle with the lemon, herb, and pink pepper marinade . Cover with plastic wrap and let marinate for 2 hours in the refrigerator. After two hours, heat a pan over medium heat and sear the pineapple and lemon salmon skewers for about 1 minute on each side . Once they have color, turn off the heat and serve .
It is recommended to serve the pineapple and lemon salmon skewers freshly made. Freezing is not recommended.

