name:
Salad with Shrimp in Pineapple
ingredients:
Pineapple: 1- about 1 kg
Shrimps: 16oz(450 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1.7cups(240 g)
Peperoncino: 1
Chives: 6fili
Mint: 5leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Salad: - mixed (lamb's lettuce, curly endive, spinach, carrots, arugula) 150 gr

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
During the beautiful season, what could be better than eating fresh dishes without sacrificing taste? The salad with shrimp in pineapple is ideal for your summer lunches. An enticing recipe to impress your family or guests, an Shrimp Salad : the fresh and meaty shrimp are sautéed in a pan with a drizzle of oil and added to the mixed salad, fresh pineapple chunks, and cherry tomatoes. A cocktail of fruit, vegetables, and crustaceans scented with chives and mint and spiced with fresh hot chili pepper. This delightful salad is served inside the halves of a hollowed-out pineapple: a scenic touch for a dish that is not only delicious to offer but also very beautiful to present on the table. All you have to do is start preparing your salad with shrimp in pineapple to add more flavor to the summer!
Want more ideas for your mixed salads? Try our tasty and light chickpea and tuna salad .

To prepare the salad with shrimp in pineapple, start by cleaning the shrimp (if you're not using pre-cleaned or frozen ones): for this operation, you can refer to the detailed procedure in the Cooking School card, how to clean shrimp . Rinse them under running water, then place them on a cutting board and remove the head (1-2). Then, using your hands, remove the legs .
At this point, shell them by removing the carapace , which is the shell that protects the shrimp's meat. Once cleaned externally, proceed with a delicate operation: removing the internal intestine. Make a small incision on the shrimp's back with a knife and gently pull it out , trying not to break it. When you have finished cleaning the shrimp, pour a drizzle of oil into a large pan .
Add a clove of garlic and the shelled shrimp to the pan and brown them on both sides. You can turn them over with kitchen tongs . Then turn off the heat and collect them in a small bowl to let them cool slightly.
Meanwhile, prepare the pineapple that will serve as a shell for your salad: choose a ripe pineapple, recognizable by its fragrance and an orange coloration on the outer skin . Cut the pineapple in half with a knife and make incisions along the entire core in the central part .
Continue making incisions with the blade around the perimeter of one of the quarters of flesh and remove it. Then make the same incisions for the other quarter and extract it. Scoop out the shell with a spoon to remove any remaining flesh. Proceed in the same manner for the other half of the pineapple. Keep the pineapple shells in the fridge covered with cling film until it's time to use them.
From the extracted flesh, cut pineapple cubes to add to the salad. Remove the tough central part and cut the pineapple quarters into medium-sized cubes . Now finely chop the herbs: chives, mint, and fresh chili pepper .
Then wash the cherry tomatoes under running water, drain them, and cut them into pieces . In a bowl, place the mixed salad previously washed and drained, add the tomato pieces , and then also add the pineapple chunks .
Add the previously sautéed shrimp . Then add the herbs to the salad: the chives , the chopped mint
and the fresh chili pepper . Add salt to taste and drizzle with some oil and mix the ingredients together with a teaspoon to blend the flavors.
Now that your salad is complete, you can start filling the pineapple, using a spoon until it's completely filled (28-29). Then serve your salad with shrimp in pineapple for a fresh summer lunch !
The salad with shrimp in pineapple can be stored in the refrigerator covered with cling film for up to 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
You can enrich your shrimp salad in pineapple with other herbs and add lemon or lime juice to the salad to accentuate the acidic note.

