name:
Marinated Pineapple Skewers
ingredients:
Pork loin: 1.3lbs(600 g)- whole
Pineapple: 1lb(450 g)- (or 9.5 ounces of juice)
Zucchini: 4.25oz(120 g)
Red peppers: 3oz(85 g)
Yellow peppers: 3oz(85 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 10
Fresh ginger: 2tsp(10 g)
Butter: 1.1tbsp(15 g)
Dill: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 12 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 10 minutes for marinating the skewers

instructions:
The marinated pineapple skewers are a very tasty and fresh second course, easy to prepare. On a long wooden skewer, delicious bites of meat alternate with slices of bell peppers and zucchini, topped with a cherry tomato. The peculiarity of this skewer is the marinade that makes it tender and fragrant. In fact, before grilling the skewers, they should rest for a few minutes in a liquid made from fresh pineapple pulp juice, finely chopped ginger, and dill. This marinade enhances the flavor of the meat without altering its taste, while the vegetables enriching the skewer remain crunchy even when cooked. You can serve your marinated pineapple skewers as a delicious appetizer or main course, also choosing to vary the meat according to your taste, perhaps opting for the more tender and flavorful cuts!
To prepare the marinated pineapple skewers, start by cleaning the pineapple. Choose a ripe pineapple (you can recognize it by the orange hues on the skin and its intense aroma). Remove the crown by cutting it with a knife . Then remove the base by making a cut of about 1.5 inches . Position the pineapple vertically on a cutting board. Then hold one end firmly with one hand and cut the skin off laterally with a knife with the other .
This operation will already eliminate the hard and dark parts of the pulp . Finally, with the tip of a knife, a paring knife, or the tip of a potato peeler, remove the remaining brown eyes . Now you can cut the pineapple in half and extract the quantity needed for the recipe.
Further divide it into quarters to more easily remove the woody central core . Then cut the pineapple into medium-sized cubes .
Place the pineapple pieces in a blender to juice them until you obtain a homogeneous liquid . Then strain the obtained juice with a fine mesh strainer, using a teaspoon to help, and collect it in a small bowl .
Pour the strained juice into a large bowl . Then add the butter previously melted in a saucepan over low heat and let cool . Mince the dill sprigs with a knife and also prepare the fresh ginger by peeling it and then finely chopping it .
Add the chopped dill , then the ginger to the pineapple juice, then emulsify the ingredients with a whisk to blend the flavors.
Now, proceed to prepare the ingredients to form the skewers: wash the bell peppers and zucchini under running water. Then remove the tops of the bell peppers, cut them in half, remove the seeds, and cut them into squares of about 1 inch on each side. Trim the zucchini to remove the ends and cut them into slices of about 1/4 inch thick . Then proceed with the meat: trim the fattest parts of the loin using a sharp knife . Then, cut the meat into bites of about 1 inch on each side .
Now that you have all the ingredients, you can proceed to assemble the skewers: take a long wooden skewer and thread a piece of meat , then continue with a slice of bell pepper and one of zucchini . Repeat the operation in the same order of ingredients and finish assembling the skewer with a cherry tomato. Proceed in the same manner for all the remaining skewers, then place them on a large tray .
Pour the pineapple marinade over the skewers , season with salt and pepper, and cover the tray with plastic wrap to let the skewers rest at room temperature for at least 10 minutes (if you wish, you can occasionally turn them to marinate all sides). After the indicated time, remove the wrap covering the skewers .
Heat the grill over high heat. Then place the skewers to cook, drained of excess marinade . Cook for about 12 minutes, turning them every 3 minutes on each side for even cooking . Then remove them from the heat and serve them accompanied by a small salad or, for a fresher and more sweet-and-sour dish, by pineapple slices.
Marinated pineapple skewers should be served immediately. They can be stored cooked in the refrigerator for up to one day, covered with plastic wrap. The skewers can be frozen once assembled and still raw, only if fresh ingredients, not defrosted, have been used.
You can make the marinated pineapple skewers with the meat of your choice, perhaps opting for more tender cuts. To accentuate the pineapple flavor, you can also alternate on the skewer with not-too-thin pineapple slices.

