name:
Pineapple and Mint Sorbet
ingredients:
Pineapple: 500- clean
Mint: a few- leaf
Sugar: 1 ¾cup(350 g)
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Ending a meal with a refreshing sorbet is a delightful pleasure that should be enjoyed at least once in the summer! No matter what fruit or ingredients are used to make these refreshing desserts, it’s impossible to resist their freshness, which has the power to rejuvenate us on hot summer days! What we propose combines two contrasting and delicious flavors: pineapple and mint sorbet! A mix of intense flavors that taste like summer and create a refreshing and original-tasting dessert, capturing all the goodness of pineapple and the intense aroma of mint. Perfect to serve at the end of a meal, to beautifully conclude a lunch or dinner, or perhaps for a refreshing sweet snack: prepare this delicious pineapple and mint sorbet and leave your guests speechless!
To prepare the pineapple and mint sorbet, first clean the pineapple: remove the base by making a cut of about 1-1.5 inches. Then remove the crown using a knife , then place the pineapple vertically, and holding it firmly with one hand, cut the peel off the sides with the other . This way, you will already remove the hardest and darkest parts of the flesh.
Proceed by cutting the peeled pineapple into slices and then into small pieces . Then pour the pineapple into a bowl,
then add the mint leaves , pour in the water , and start blending everything .
Add the sugar and blend until you get a creamy consistency . Transfer the mixture into the ice cream maker
and turn it on for 30 minutes . If you don't have an ice cream maker, you can proceed as follows: pour the mixture into a wide dish and place it in the freezer for at least an hour. Then take it out, stir it with a fork, and repeat the operation until you reach the desired consistency, about every half hour. In the case of this sorbet made with the ice cream maker, once the 30 minutes have passed, it will have reached the right consistency , so serve it and garnish it with mint leaves!
You can store your pineapple and mint sorbet in the freezer for up to one month.
If you want, you can replace the fresh mint leaves with mint syrup, and if you prefer a more tangy taste, you can try adding some lemon juice. Alternatively to mint, try pairing the pineapple with ginger!

