name:
Ham and Pineapple
ingredients:
Pineapple: 1- fresh (ripe and large)
Prosciutto crudo: 7.1oz(200 g)- sweet, thinly sliced
Mint: to taste-

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Prosciutto crudo and pineapple is a cold dish created by simply combining complementary flavors: the freshness of pineapple alongside the sweetness of prosciutto crudo. Ham and pineapple is a dish to serve during a summer lunch, a great alternative to the classic ham and melon, perfect for the hottest days. It's a tasty yet light and refreshing dish, thanks to the presence of pineapple, appreciated for its properties: it is rich in potassium, vitamins, and has antioxidant properties. Preparing ham and pineapple is simple: just clean the pineapple, cut it into quarters and then into slices, then arrange them on a serving plate alternating with very thin slices of prosciutto crudo. You can garnish ham and pineapple with fresh mint leaves or with sprigs of curly parsley, which is well-suited for plate decorations due to its harmonious shape!
To prepare ham and pineapple, start by cleaning the pineapple. Choose a ripe pineapple (you can recognize it when buying if it has orange shades on the peel and emits an intense aroma). Remove the crown by cutting it with a knife . Then remove the base by making a cut of about 1-1.5 inches . Proceed by positioning the pineapple vertically on a cutting board. Then hold one end firmly with one hand and cut away the peel with a knife with the other .
With this operation, you will already remove the hard and dark parts of the flesh . Finally, with the tip of a knife, a paring knife, or the tip of a vegetable peeler, remove the remaining brown eyes . Now you can cut the pineapple in half .
Further divide the half into quarters and remove the central woody core before making slices 0.75 inches thick . On a serving platter, start placing a slice of pineapple .
Then take a slice of ham , lay it partially over the pineapple slice and fold it over itself , then continue with another pineapple slice .
Continue alternating the slices of pineapple with those of prosciutto crudo until the ingredients are used up. Garnish with mint leaves and serve your fresh ham and pineapple (14-15)!
Ham and pineapple should be enjoyed fresh right after preparation. You can store the composed dish in the refrigerator for 1-2 days covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended.
You can also serve ham and pineapple by cutting the pineapple into "boats". To do this, you need to divide the pineapple (without removing ends and peel) into 4 equal slices, remove the central core, and cut the flesh from each slice into slices and reassemble on each quarter of pineapple; arrange the pineapple slices staggered, pulling one to the right and the next to the left (and so on to the end), and place the slices of prosciutto crudo on top of the boats.

