name:
Loquat Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 6- (medium)
Type 00 flour: 3 ½cups(450 g)
Sugar: 1cup(210 g)
Vegetable oil: 6tbsp(80 g)
Loquat: 8oz(220 g)
Whole milk: 0.42cup(100 g)
Baking powder: 2.8tsp(14 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Loquat: 7

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
With the arrival of the beautiful season, you really feel like preparing fresh and colorful cakes with the fruits that ripen in spring. The first strawberries, kiwis for example.. there's one perhaps still little used but with an intense flavor you can't resist: it's the loquat. Let yourself be conquered by its juicy flesh and intense, very sweet flavor, which will give the cake an enveloping taste. This soft loquat cake is ideal for a tender breakfast or to offer a delicious snack to your children! Now all you have to do is start preparing the loquat cake to spread an irresistible aroma in your kitchen, the kind that only genuine and delicious desserts can release.

To prepare the loquat cake, start by separating the egg yolks from the egg whites. Set the egg whites aside and pour the yolks into a stand mixer . Then add 1/3 of the sugar into the stand mixer and beat the mixture with the whisks. Now take the 220 g of loquats and cut them in half ,
remove their seeds with a teaspoon and peel them : you can use a small knife. Now place them in a high-sided container and blend them with an immersion blender until you get a smooth and creamy puree. Then pour the loquat puree into the stand mixer and continue whipping the ingredients with the whisks.
At this point, proceed by sifting the flour and baking powder into a bowl, then also add the cinnamon . Then add the dry ingredients, one tablespoon at a time, to the mixture in the stand mixer while continuing to mix. Subsequently, also add the milk ,
finally, while continuing to whisk, also add the seed oil in a thin stream . You can transfer the mixture into a bowl. Then take a perfectly clean bowl (or the same stand mixer bowl with clean whisks) and pour in the egg whites, at room temperature. Beat them with the whisks with the remaining sugar until you get a thick and glossy mixture .
Combine the sugar-whipped eggs with the mixture you obtained in the stand mixer, being careful to incorporate them by mixing from top to bottom to avoid deflating them . Then line a 10-inch springform pan with parchment paper . Pour in the mixture you have obtained and level it with a spatula so that the baking is even.
Take the loquats for decoration, cut them in half, remove the seeds, and arrange them in concentric circles on the surface of the cake to decorate it. Then bake in a preheated oven with fan at 340°F for 40 minutes (or static at 375°F for 50 minutes) . Then remove the loquat cake and place it on a wire rack to cool completely at room temperature . Your cake will then be ready to serve. If you prefer, you can dust it with powdered sugar.
The loquat cake can be stored under a glass dome at room temperature for up to 3 days.
The loquat cake can be frozen after baking if only fresh ingredients have been used.
Are you afraid the cake will taste too sweet while you prefer more aromatic flavors? Just add a few drops of bitter almond essence to the batter. You won't be able to resist this delicious loquat cake anymore!

