name:
Lemon Bundt Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(350 g)
Sugar: 1 ⅛cup(220 g)
Butter: ½cup(120 g)- at room temperature
Cornstarch: 7tbsp(50 g)
Eggs: 4- medium
Lemons: 2- untreated
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you love simple desserts and especially the bundt cake , you will greatly appreciate our lemon bundt cake, a variant of this classic dessert, fragrant and equally delicious. Bundt cakes and large bundt cakes are pantry desserts, with a genuine taste, loved by both adults and children for their timeless simplicity. Like the orange bundt cake , this one also has a citrus note, thanks to the addition of juice directly into the batter and the zest that makes it so fragrant! The lemon bundt cake is perfect to enjoy for breakfast or a snack and is very easy to prepare! Turn on the oven and let the aroma of lemon bundt cake fill your kitchen! Here are some other lemon desserts you shouldn't miss:
To prepare the lemon bundt cake, first grate the zest of 2 lemons and then squeeze the juice; you will need about 1/2 cup . Now separate the egg yolks from the whites, pour the whites into a bowl and beat them to stiff peaks with 5 teaspoons of sugar , then set aside.
In another bowl, combine the butter and 1 cup of sugar and beat with mixers for about 5 minutes, then add the egg yolks one at a time, keeping the mixers running .
At this point, add the lemon zest and lemon juice and mix for another minute, then incorporate the flour, one tablespoon at a time .
Add the cornstarch and baking powder and continue to mix with the beaters to make the mixture smooth. Lastly, add the beaten egg whites and gently fold them in to avoid deflating the mixture. Pour the batter into a 9.5-inch diameter bundt pan that you have previously buttered . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 50 minutes; if it browns too much on top, you can cover it with a sheet of aluminum foil after 30 minutes.
Once baked, remove from the oven and let the cake cool in the pan for about twenty minutes , then remove it from the pan and let it cool completely on a wire rack . Enjoy your lemon bundt cake by dusting it with powdered sugar to taste !
The lemon bundt cake can be stored at room temperature for about 3 days, covered with a glass dome. You can freeze it after it has been baked and cooled completely, perhaps sliced.
When grating the lemon zest, be careful to take only the yellow part and avoid the white part, which would give the dough a bitter note.

