name:
Spaghetti with roasted lemon and prawns
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Lemons: 3- (from Sorrento, PGI)
Scampi: 12
Basil: to taste
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)- (cold)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Can you already smell the lemons of Sorrento? We can assure you that as soon as you start preparing the spaghetti with roasted lemon and prawns, your kitchen will be filled with the typical aroma of the Amalfi Coast! We reveal all the steps to create this refined first course, perfect for winning over the palate of your guests with a different proposal than usual. A special treatment for lemons: first boiled and then grilled, transforming them into a cream. Sorrento lemons are the most suitable type for this dish: their peel is sweet and rich in essential oils, thus obtaining a condiment with an intense flavor. The prawn tartare then pairs perfectly with the flavors and aromas of this dish!
Here are other recipes not to be missed:

To prepare the spaghetti with roasted lemon and prawns, start with the lemon cream. Wash them well and immerse them in boiling water . Cook for about 25-30 minutes until they are soft. Drain them , keeping the water aside, and transfer them to a tray with paper towels . Let them cool slightly and dry them very well.
Brush them with oil, making sure to coat all sides well and place them on a hot grill. When the typical grill marks begin to form, you can turn them . Continue grilling until all sides are well grilled .
Now cut them into wedges , remove the pulp, seeds, and white part . You should only keep the yellow part, the peel. Transfer it to a small bowl and add a little cooking water .
Blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a cream, adding water as needed. Now add a little oil in a thin stream and blend again .
You should obtain a smooth cream . Wash and dry the basil well. Place it on a plate , without overlapping the leaves, and cook in the microwave for about 3 minutes at 700 Watts, to dehydrate them .
Let them cool for a few seconds, then blend them with a coffee grinder to pulverize them . Clean the prawns, removing the head, the inner filament , and the shell .
Once you have cleaned them all , chop them with a knife to prepare the tartare. Transfer to a small bowl and season with oil , salt, and pepper.
Mix well and set aside in the refrigerator . Cook the pasta in boiling salted water . Meanwhile, in a pan, pour a ladle of cooking water .
Add some of the lemon cream and stir to melt it . Drain the pasta al dente and transfer it to the sauce .
Add another ladle of cooking water and finish cooking. Turn off the heat and add the cold butter in cubes . Stir and taste the pasta, if you prefer an even more lemony touch, add more lemon cream .
Mix again and plate . Take the prawn tartare and with a spoon form a quenelle .
Place it on the pasta , then use a sieve to sprinkle basil on top . The spaghetti is ready; you just need to serve it .
We recommend consuming the pasta immediately. You can prepare the lemon cream and tartare a few hours in advance.
The lemon cream can be stored in the fridge, in an airtight container, for 1-2 days.
If you don't like butter, you can toss the pasta with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil.
Don't throw away the prawn scraps, but use them for a bisque.
Adjust the amount of lemon cream used, according to your taste.
The leftover lemon cream can be used to enrich a citronette, for example!

