name:
Lemon and Blueberry Babka
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Milk: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: ⅓cup(80 g)
Butter: 3oz(80 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.4oz(10 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Salt: 0.8tsp(5 g)
Blueberries: 2cups(300 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Lemons: 1- zest and juice
Water: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Lemon juice: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + rising time (3 h) + chilling time in the refrigerator (20 min.)

instructions:
The lemon and blueberry babka is a delightful variation of a typical Polish dessert characterized by a particularly soft and delicious texture, similar to Brioche bread . In this recipe, the tart note of the blueberries meets the lively freshness of lemon creating a perfect combination! The soft dough carefully envelops a homemade blueberry compote that releases its intense and fruity flavor with every bite. Once out of the oven, the babka is enhanced by a final touch that highlights its character: a delicate lemon syrup that penetrates the layers of the loaf, perfectly balancing the sweetness of the fruit. A blend of tradition and creativity, the lemon and blueberry babka is a genuine idea to enjoy both for breakfast and as a snack!
Also try the Chocolate Babka variation or choose from these delicious sweet leavened recipes:

To prepare the lemon and blueberry babka, first place the flour, sugar , yeast , and milk into a stand mixer.
Add the grated lemon zest and vanilla extract . Attach the dough hook and run the machine for 4 minutes. Once all the ingredients are combined, add the egg yolks .
Add the salt and knead once more. When the dough is smooth, add the softened butter, one piece at a time . Run the mixer again for 12 minutes and, once the dough is smooth and elastic, let it rest in the mixer covered with plastic wrap for 5 minutes. Then form a smooth ball and let it rise until doubled in size, which will take 2 or 3 hours.
Meanwhile, prepare the blueberry compote. In a pot, put the blueberries, add the sugar , lemon zest , and lemon juice .
Bring to a boil , lower the heat, and continue cooking for 20 minutes. Let it cool completely . Take the dough and place it on a lightly floured surface .
Roll out the dough with a rolling pin and spread the blueberry compote on the surface, leaving a couple of inches free on the edges . Roll up the dough , seal the ends well and let it firm up in the refrigerator for 20 minutes.
After this time, cut the dough lengthwise . Cross the 2 pieces to form a braid and place it in a baking pan measuring 10x4.5 inches lined with parchment paper . Bake in a static oven at 400°F for 20 minutes, then lower the temperature to 350°F and continue baking for another 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, make the lemon syrup. In a pot, pour the water along with the sugar and lemon juice . Cook over low heat until the sugar has dissolved .
Remove the babka from the pan and place it on a wire rack, then immediately brush it with the syrup and sprinkle with grated lemon zest . Let it cool. Your lemon and blueberry babka is ready to be enjoyed !
The lemon and blueberry babka can be stored at room temperature, in an airtight container or wrapped in plastic wrap, for 2-3 days.
If you'd like, you can freeze it for a month: cut it into slices and wrap each slice individually in plastic wrap or a freezer bag. When you want to enjoy it, just thaw the slices at room temperature or warm them slightly in the oven.
For an extra touch of sweetness, you can glaze the babka with a simple lemon glaze made with powdered sugar and lemon juice!

