name:
Zucchini Gateau with Melting Heart
ingredients:
Zucchini: 6cups(800 g)
Fresh scallion: 1
Eggs: 2- (medium)
Mozzarella cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)- (for pizza)
Smoked scamorza cheese: 6.3oz(180 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- (to be grated)
Pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Breadcrumbs: 3.3oz(80 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Butter: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time of the mixture

instructions:
The beauty of making a good casserole? The fact that you simply combine different ingredients and thus prepare an excellent lunch or a very appetizing dinner in a few steps! If you don't believe it, try the zucchini gateau with a melting heart! A version of the classic potato-based dish, which Neapolitans have masterfully renamed with the name of gattò di patate . In the zucchini gateau, in addition to adding some cheeses for the irresistible melting heart, we have combined crispy bits of bacon sautéed in a pan. A scent and taste that we won't even describe... because we invite you to prepare it with us!
To prepare the zucchini gateau with a melting heart, start with the zucchinis. After rinsing and trimming them, grate them using a coarse grater . Set aside for a moment and move to the stovetop. In a very hot pan, pour the bacon cut into cubes . Sauté it well and when it becomes golden, set aside .
In the fat released by the bacon, pour the cleaned and thinly sliced spring onion , then add the zucchinis and cook for about ten minutes, adjusting with salt: it's important that the cooking base is very dry . Pour the cooked zucchinis and spring onion into a bowl and let them cool completely. Then add the grated pecorino, breadcrumbs ,
the scamorza and pizza mozzarella cut into cubes , then the bacon and eggs .
Mix everything well with a wooden spoon or spatula to obtain a nice compact dough , transfer the mixture into a buttered and parchment paper-lined pan (8 x 4 inches and 2.75 inches high) . Level carefully and sprinkle the surface with breadcrumbs
finally drizzle with some melted butter . Your zucchini gateau with a melting heart is ready to bake in a preheated static oven at 400°F for about 25 minutes .
The zucchini gateau with a melting heart can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days, reheat before serving.
If needed, it can also be frozen after cooking, preferably already cut into pieces.
Replace the pecorino with grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP to make your zucchini gateau with a melting heart a bit less salty. Keep the breadcrumbs and the grated cheese at hand and add them gradually to achieve the ideal consistency as they help to make the dough just dry enough!

