name:
Robiola and Speck Pasta
ingredients:
Fusilloni pasta: 14.1oz(400 g)
Speck: 7.1oz(200 g)- cut into cubes
Robiola cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Spring onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The sound of the phone with friends who will soon arrive for dinner corresponds to an equally quick response. How about an easy and quick first course? Here is our robiola and speck pasta! This recipe, besides being very simple, is ideal for those who love quick first courses with an eye to taste. In fact, the savory and aromatic speck is sweetened by the presence of the stewed leek, which becomes soft and fragrant. All that is missing is a touch of creaminess and robiola is just the cheese needed in this case! Now that you have discovered robiola and speck pasta, all that remains is to put it on the table and enjoy it with your loved ones!
Discover other delicious variations with speck:
To prepare the robiola and speck pasta, start by putting the pot of water on the stove to cook the pasta. Meanwhile, clean and thinly slice the scallion , then cut the speck into cubes and move to the stove. In the hot pan, where you have already added a little oil, add the speck .
Brown the speck for about 3-4 minutes over medium heat, stirring often. When it is golden, remove it from the pan . In the same cooking base, add the scallion and let it stew over low heat for about 5 minutes, adding a little hot water .
Now cook the pasta in boiling salted water and cook it al dente . When the scallion is wilted, turn off the heat and add the robiola along with a ladle of the pasta cooking water .
Adjust with salt and pepper, being careful not to overdo it because the speck is already very salty, and mix everything together . Drain the pasta into the pan , add the speck and mix well . Your robiola and speck pasta is ready.
It is recommended to consume the robiola and speck pasta immediately.
The scallion serves to add sweetness and soften the savory note of the speck; alternatively, you can use leek or onion.

