name:
Zucchini and Speck Croquettes
ingredients:
Zucchini: 2lbs(450 g)
Robiola cheese: 1cup(200 g)
Speck: 5.3oz(150 g)- (whole piece)
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(80 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- to be grated
Parsley: 1tuft
Fine salt: 1tsp
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
The croquettes, whether classic potato croquettes or with a melted cheese center , are always a great temptation, but fried food should not be overindulged... that's why we also offer tasty Baked Potato Croquettes , perhaps with vegetables, like these zucchini and speck croquettes! These zucchini balls are enriched with robiola cheese and speck cubes for a soft and flavorful dough. Thanks to baking in the Baked Zucchini Meatballs , they will be light and tasty, and nothing will stop you from eating one after the other! Perfect as an appetizer, zucchini and speck croquettes are also a great idea for the little ones.
To prepare zucchini and speck croquettes, first wash and trim the zucchini, then roughly slice them into rounds . Transfer the zucchini into a mixer and chop them, taking care not to make a puree .
Cut the speck into cubes . Pour the chopped zucchini into a bowl and add the breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan cheese .
Mix to combine, then add the parsley , salt , and robiola cheese .
Mix again and finally add the speck . Work everything with a spoon to obtain a soft and consistent dough . Oil your palms with olive oil and form slightly flattened balls ; with these quantities, you will obtain about 12 croquettes.
Coat the croquettes with breadcrumbs and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Drizzle with a bit of oil and bake in a preheated fan oven at 180°C (350°F) for about 30 minutes. When they are nicely golden, take them out of the oven and serve your zucchini and speck croquettes !
Zucchini and speck croquettes can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
You can freeze them raw and then cook them directly from frozen, adjusting the cooking times.
You can replace the speck with cooked ham or salami, or omit it to make vegetarian croquettes!

