name:
Pasta with peppers and bacon
ingredients:
Tortiglioni pasta: 0.9lb(400 g)
Bell peppers: 0.9lb(400 g)- (yellow and red)
Pancetta tesa: 7.1oz(200 g)
Fresh scallion: 2.8oz(80 g)
Basil: 1sprig
Parsley: 1sprig
Salted ricotta cheese: to taste- (to grate)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The peppers, with their sweetness, pair perfectly with more savory ingredients like tuna, sausage, or bacon... with the pasta with peppers and bacon recipe, you can't go wrong! A delicious first course seasoned with a rustic and flavorful sauce, completed with a generous sprinkle of salted ricotta. Simple and hearty, pasta with peppers and bacon is ideal for dinner guests and will fill your summer table with color and cheer!
Discover our pasta with peppers recipes :
To prepare the pasta with peppers and bacon, first, get the ingredients ready: clean the peppers by removing the top, the filaments, and the seeds inside, then cut them into not-too-thin strips . Trim and slice the scallions, including the green part . Finally, cut the bacon into cubes .
Heat a large pan and brown the bacon over moderate heat . When it’s crispy and golden , remove the bacon and leave the fat in the pan. Add the scallions and sauté them for a couple of minutes, still over medium heat.
At this point, add the peppers along with parsley and basil leaves . Salt and cook for 10-15 minutes, adding a bit of water as needed; they should become soft. Meanwhile, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the pasta until very al dente . Drain the pasta into the pan with the sauce and add a ladle of the cooking water , then toss everything for a minute.
Remove the pan from the heat, add the grated salted ricotta and a grind of pepper , then add the reserved bacon . Mix well and serve your pasta with peppers and bacon, adding more salted ricotta and pepper to taste !
It is recommended to consume the pasta with peppers and bacon immediately.
If you prefer, you can replace the scallion with shallot or onion.

