name:
Chicken and Green Bean Rolls
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 8.5oz(240 g)- (8 slices of 1 oz each)
Green beans: 3.5oz(100 g)- fresh
Mustard: 2tbsp(30 g)- spicy
Prosciutto crudo: 2.5oz(70 g)- (8 slices)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Greek yogurt: 0.4cup(100 g)
Whole milk: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Chives: 3fili
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time for the potatoes

instructions:
When we have chicken breast slices, many ideas come to mind, but we end up grilling or pan-frying them... or at least, we used to! With chicken and green bean rolls, this story will have a happy ending! This is a second course that is very simple and tasty, allowing you to present chicken breast in an inviting way with a crunchy filling. And to delight your guests' palates, pair it with a yogurt potato side dish, an original and refreshing idea perfect to accompany the delicious chicken and green bean rolls! If you are a fan of the classic chicken and potato combo, don't miss the Gratin Roll-Ups with Potatoes with potatoes, baked and filled with speck and cheese!
To prepare the chicken and green bean rolls, start with the potatoes that will serve as a side dish, as they have the longest cooking time. So place them in a pot with plenty of cold water , put it on the stove, and let it come to a boil. Then cook the potatoes for 20-30 minutes depending on their size, testing with a fork. The potatoes will be cooked when they no longer resist; at that point, drain them and let them cool a bit , then peel them and let them cool completely . To cut cooking time, you can use a pressure cooker.
Once the boiled potatoes are completely cooled, for convenience and optimal cutting, you may place them in the freezer for 15 minutes, then cut them into chunks about an inch in size . Gather the cubes in a bowl and add the Greek yogurt along with the chives, which you can cut with scissors , and mix .
If you notice that the mixture becomes too thick, dilute it by adding 1-2 tablespoons of milk , adjust salt and pepper, mix, and place in the refrigerator, covering with plastic wrap . Meanwhile, trim the green beans, removing both ends .
Then rinse them under running water and blanch them in plenty of boiling water for 10-15 minutes , just long enough to soften them a bit. Then drain the green beans and let them cool slightly by pouring a bit of cold water to stop the cooking; this way, they will remain a nice green color.
Finally, place the green beans in a bowl and adjust the salt . On a cutting board, arrange the chicken breast slices and salt only the surface , then spread some mustard using a teaspoon to distribute it .
Just above the center, place a handful of green beans . Starting from the top, roll the chicken slice with the green beans in the middle, rolling the meat onto itself to obtain a roll ; repeat the operation for all the other slices.
Insert two toothpicks into each roll to ensure they do not open during cooking . Pour some extra virgin olive oil into a pan and when it is hot, place the rolls , turning them after a few minutes of high-heat cooking , and continue to seal the meat well.
Let them cool a bit and do not discard the cooking oil, as it will be used later . Remove the wooden skewers from each roll and salt the previously unsalted surface .
On a cutting board, arrange the slices of prosciutto, and starting from the bottom, wrap a slice all around the roll so that the prosciutto completely covers the roll ; do this for all. In a baking dish, pour the cooking oil from the rolls
and place the rolls in it , letting them cook in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 15 minutes . As soon as the chicken and green bean rolls are cooked, you can serve them with your yogurt potato salad !
Chicken and green bean rolls can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day, covered with plastic wrap. You can also prepare the yogurt salad the day before, storing it in the refrigerator and keeping it covered.

