name:
Chicken burrito with lime guacamole
ingredients:
Tortillas: 4
Chicken breast: 14.1oz(400 g)- sliced
Lettuce: 2.8oz(80 g)
Precooked black beans: 0.7cup(150 g)
Cheddar cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)- sliced
Cluster tomatoes: 7oz(200 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Lime juice: 2tsp(10 g)
Lime peel: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Peperoncino: ¼tsp(1 g)- Cayenne
Honey: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Avocado: 1- ripe
Shallot: 0.4oz(10 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 0.4oz(10 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 5.3oz(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 3 minutes in the oven to gratin

instructions:
The Tex-Mex cuisine of the southern United States, with its spicy flavors and explosion of colors, is one of the most loved and known in the world. Traditional Mexican ingredients adapted into street food, strong-tasting sauces, sweet and sour notes, tangy and spicy... you'll find all this and more in our chicken burritos with lime guacamole! If you're tired of the usual sandwich and want to embark on a new world of flavors, join us in discovering new frontiers of taste! Inside a crispy taco de harina , we'll wrap up marinated and caramelized chicken strips, black beans, crunchy lettuce, and a melty heart of cheddar; we'll accompany our amazing burrito with an explosive guacamole lime sauce, and make your taste buds dance to the sound of mariachi music. Also, try the vegetable burrito version for an all-Mexico-themed dinner!
To prepare your chicken burritos with lime guacamole, start by making the guacamole. Cut the avocado in half and remove the pit , then use a spoon to scoop out the flesh from the skin (for this operation, the avocado must be well-ripened), and place it in a bowl. Squeeze the lime .
Add the juice to the avocado flesh . Adjust with salt and pepper . Move on to the other ingredients for the sauce: finely chop the shallot .
and dice the tomato . Make a slit in the green chili below the stem and, turning it upside down, empty out the seeds .
Then cut the chili into strips and then into small cubes . Add the shallot, tomato , and chopped chili to the avocado bowl .
Season with a drizzle of oil , mix, and then, with the tines of a fork, carefully mash all the ingredients until you get a sauce . The lime guacamole is ready, set it aside.
Now, prepare the chicken: cut the meat into strips , place them in a bowl, and drizzle with oil , honey .
Add the cayenne pepper and both the grated zest and the squeezed juice of the lime.
Mix and then cover with plastic wrap . Let the chicken marinate in the fridge for at least half an hour, then heat a large pan and add the chicken with all its marinade juices .
Cook over high heat for 5-6 minutes until the chicken caramelizes and forms a crispy crust . Set aside, and move on to the other ingredients for the burritos. Wash the head of lettuce, remove the base and the harder parts , and roughly chop the leaves. Dice the tomato .
Now, shred the cheddar , keeping aside 4 whole slices for later. In a special grill (or a large non-stick pan), toast the tortilla on both sides , then sprinkle the shredded cheddar in the center and let it melt.
Transfer the tortilla to a plate or cutting board, and fill it with the lettuce and the tomato . Adjust with salt .
Add the black beans and the caramelized chicken . Now take the two lateral edges of the tortilla and fold them over the filling .
Take the bottom edge of the tortilla and fold it over as well and continue wrapping the burrito until it is sealed . Repeat the same operations to make the other burritos! Then cut each of the 4 remaining cheddar slices into 3 strips .
Place the burritos on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and place 3 strips of cheddar on each . Broil in a preheated static oven at 482°F for 3 minutes. Take your burritos out of the oven and cut them in half , before placing them on the serving plate and serve your chicken burritos hot, accompanied by guacamole !
Chicken burritos with lime guacamole are best enjoyed hot, right after making them. You can store both the chicken and the guacamole sauce in the fridge, covered, for 1 day.

