name:
Pici with Breadcrumbs
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(350 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 6oz(170 g)
Water: 1.3cups(300 g)- warm
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste
Tuscan bread: 7.1oz(200 g)- stale (the crumb)
Extra virgin olive oil: 5tbsp(80 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh chili pepper: ½
Parsley: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Note + the resting time for the fresh pasta

instructions:
Tuscany is a region full of resources, the birthplace of great scientists, writers, poets, and also culinary traditions tied to local products… such as olive oil, the star of this recipe: pici with breadcrumbs! Tuscan pici are a traditional type of fresh pasta similar to thick spaghetti, made with flour, water, and strictly extra virgin olive oil. Among the most classic sauces, we certainly find pici all'aglione and, indeed, pici with breadcrumbs, a first course where the quality of ingredients makes the difference. Dry bread crumbs toasted in a pan and flavored with garlic, oil, and chili pepper, a simple and rustic preparation that will win everyone over with its strong taste… you'll see, not a crumb will be left!
Don't miss these recipes with pici:
To prepare pici with breadcrumbs, first make the fresh pasta dough: pour the flour and semolina on the work surface and create the classic fountain shape , then gradually add warm water .
Knead with your hands to gradually incorporate the liquid , then add the salt and the oil .
Continue adding water and kneading with your hands until you get a smooth and elastic dough . Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature for 30 minutes .
After the resting time, divide the dough into small portions and roll them out by hand to form strings about the length of spaghetti ; don't worry if the dough tends to shrink back, it's normal. Place the pici on a tray dusted with semolina .
Now prepare the sauce: take the crumb from a loaf of stale bread and break it into small pieces with your fingers . Slice the garlic cloves and chop the fresh chili pepper into rings.
Heat the oil in a pan, add the garlic and chili pepper and let it flavor for a few minutes . When the garlic is golden, remove it from the pan along with the chili pepper .
Pour the bread crumbs into the pan , salt and toast them, stirring often . When the crumbs are golden, turn off the heat.
In the meantime, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the pici for 6-8 minutes . Moisten the crumbs with a ladle of the pasta cooking water , then drain the pici directly into the pan .
Return the pan to the heat and toss everything until the liquid is absorbed . Finally, mix in a drizzle of oil and grate some fresh chili pepper to taste .
Plate and finish with chopped parsley and a drizzle of oil . Your pici with breadcrumbs are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the pici with breadcrumbs immediately.
Fresh pici can be stored for 1 day at room temperature, keeping them between two cloths dusted with durum wheat flour. Alternatively, you can freeze them raw: spread them on a tray sprinkled with durum wheat flour and let them harden in the freezer, then transfer them to freezer bags, being careful not to break them.
If you prefer, you can add a grate of Tuscan Pecorino before serving your pici with breadcrumbs.
If your bread is more than a day old and you have difficulty breaking the crumb, you can pass the crust in a mixer for a few moments!

