name:
Tuna Spaghetti
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Tuna in oil: 5.3oz(150 g)- (drained)
Peeled tomatoes: 14.1oz(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Basil: to taste
Yellow onions: ½

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Imagine coming home tired after a long day at work. You open the pantry and... remember that you didn't even manage to go grocery shopping. At the bottom of the shelf, there's only some canned tuna in oil... but don't despair! It can become the star of a delicious recipe: tuna spaghetti! An easy-to-make first course, ideal for a last-minute spaghetti dinner and a perfect dinner saver because even with the simplest ingredients you can prepare tasty dishes. The farfalle with fresh salmon know this very well, don't they? So choose the meatiest tuna, a few basil leaves for flavor, and the best extra virgin olive oil! The sauce you'll make will make this dish even tastier and more substantial, and... dinner is served!
Discover these recipes with tuna:

To prepare the tuna spaghetti, start by heating a pot full of water on the stove. When it boils, salt it to taste: this will be used for cooking the pasta. Drain the tuna fillet from its preserving oil. In the meantime, peel the onion and slice it thinly . Heat the olive oil in a pan and add the sliced onion . Let it soften over low heat for a few minutes, stirring often; shred the tuna with your hands
and add it to the pan when the onion has softened and let it brown for a couple of minutes, always stirring. Now, crush the peeled tomatoes with a fork and add them to the pan with the tuna ; let the sauce cook for about 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, cook the spaghetti , cook them al dente: by the time the pasta is cooked, the sauce will be ready as well . Drain the spaghetti directly into the pan with the tuna ,
season with ground pepper , turn off the heat and add fresh basil leaves . Stir and serve your tuna spaghetti piping hot!
It is recommended to consume the tuna spaghetti as soon as they are ready. If there are leftovers, store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
Prefer a white version? Sauté the onion (or garlic) and tuna in a bit of oil for 3-4 minutes, then add the al dente spaghetti, toss and season to taste with parsley: even simpler, faster, and tastier!
For a summer version, try the pasta with tuna and lemon . If you have a nice tuna steak, we recommend pasta with fresh tuna and cherry tomatoes !

