name:
Caprese Fingerfood
ingredients:
Pomodori di Pachino (cherry tomatoes): 2cups(300 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.2oz(6 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Basil: 3leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Stracciatella cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(200 g)
Basil: 0.5oz(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the time to chill in the refrigerator

instructions:
Caprese fingerfood is a very tasty idea to enjoy a fresh and colorful appetizer in an alternative and original way. Served in single-serving cups, it is a fun idea to propose a classic of Italian tradition revisited, also using other ingredients such as stracciatella, a very soft cheese that gives fullness to the taste and body to the cream. Try caprese fingerfood and be conquered by its fresh tricolor goodness layer after layer: you won't regret it!
To prepare caprese fingerfood, soak the gelatin sheets in a bowl with cold water for at least 10 minutes . Wash the cherry tomatoes under plenty of fresh running water, then cut them in half and let them soften in a large non-stick pan with the oil ,
season with salt and pepper. Add the basil leaves and mix with a spatula, cooking over moderate heat for 20 minutes. Once the cherry tomatoes are ready , turn off the heat
and pass them through a food mill , paying particular attention to the skins , to obtain a sauce .
After the necessary time, squeeze the gelatin sheets and add them to the hot sauce you have prepared , stirring with the spatula until the gelatin is completely dissolved.
Compose the first layer of your caprese by pouring the sauce into 4 cups with a capacity of 3.4 oz , then place them in the refrigerator to set for at least 1 hour. Meanwhile, prepare the second layer by placing the stracciatella in a fine-mesh strainer and pressing with the back of a teaspoon to release the excess liquid . Let the stracciatella drain and move on to the basil cream.
Place the ricotta in a blade mixer and add the basil leaves, seasoning with salt and pepper to your taste. Start the blades until you obtain a homogeneous and creamy mixture , which you will place in a piping bag without a nozzle, to which you can make a hole.
After the necessary time, continue with the composition of the cups: shred the stracciatella and create the second layer , finally finish by pouring the basil cream to the edge with the help of the piping bag : your caprese fingerfood is ready to be served and enjoyed; you can decorate it with small basil leaves .
It is recommended to consume the caprese fingerfood immediately. You can store the creams for a maximum of 3-4 days in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
If you want to make your basil cream even richer and more delicious, try adding grated Parmesan: you will taste the difference!

