name:
Baked Pasta with Eggplants
ingredients:
Pennoni rigati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Eggplant: 0.9lb(400 g)
Tomato purée: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Garlic: 3cloves
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 8tbsp(40 g)- to be grated
Basil: 5leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
How many ways are there to make baked pasta ? But if you're looking for a perfect one for summer, baked pasta with eggplants is just what you need! A main course delicious in all seasons, but even better during this time when the eggplants are so sweet! The baked pasta with eggplants is great both hot and at room temperature... you can enjoy it at home or on the beach to celebrate Ferragosto with taste and simplicity! Making it is really easy: just sauté the eggplants in a pan with a little oil, without frying them, prepare a quick basil sauce, add cubes of mozzarella, and bake it all for a crispy crust! We chose pennoni, which will absorb the sauce very well, but you can vary using your preferred pasta shape! Here are some other tasty pasta dishes not to miss:
To prepare the baked pasta with eggplants, cut the eggplants into cubes about 1/2 inch . In a pan, pour a dash of oil and 2 cloves of garlic . Let it heat for a few moments, then add the eggplants .
Cook on high heat for 8-10 minutes until they are soft and well-browned. Remove the garlic and set them aside. Now, prepare the sauce: pour a drizzle of oil into a pot, add a clove of garlic , and let it brown over moderate heat. Now pour in the tomato puree and season with salt.
Add the basil leaves and let it cook on low heat for about 15 minutes, then remove the garlic . Meanwhile, cook the pasta in boiling salted water for the time indicated on the package. Cut the mozzarella into cubes of about 1/2 inch .
Drain the pasta al dente and transfer it directly to the pot with the tomato sauce and mix. Add the eggplants, reserving some for the topping and also add the mozzarella, keeping aside about 1.7 oz . Mix everything well.
Pour the pasta into a baking dish , cover with the remaining mozzarella and the grated Grana Padano PDO cheese .
Also add the eggplants , spreading them over the entire surface . Bake in a preheated oven at 464°F, with grill mode, for 10 minutes on the top rack . Take it out when well gratinated and serve it hot or warm .
Baked pasta with eggplants can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days.
Freezing is not recommended
For a more indulgent version, try frying the eggplants in deep oil and add some salted ricotta!


