name:
Potato and Herb Ravioli with Sauce
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Powdered turmeric: to taste
Water: 4.4oz(130 g)
Red potatoes: 0.66lb(300 g)
Swiss chard: 8cups(300 g)
Garlic: 1
Pine nuts: 3 ¼tbsp(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Peeled tomatoes: 2lbs(900 g)- cherry
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Basil: to taste
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you are looking for a tasty and light first course, potato and herb ravioli with sauce is perfect for you! This recipe, prepared with fresh egg-free pasta, is an excellent choice for your Sunday menus. The combination of potatoes and herbs, wrapped in a fresh sheet flavored with turmeric, creates a dish rich in delicate and simple flavors, perfect for any occasion. The cherry tomato sauce adds a fresh and fragrant touch. With a preparation that enhances the genuineness of the ingredients, these ravioli are an excellent choice for those looking for a traditional egg-free dish, but rich in taste. Perfect for a family dinner, but also for an elegant and healthy table!
Here are other homemade Potato ravioli recipes:
To prepare potato and herb ravioli with sauce, start with the fresh pasta: in a bowl, pour the flour, semolina , salt , and a pinch of turmeric that will not affect the flavor much but will make the dough yellow even without eggs.
Mix with a fork and add the oil and water .
Continue working with the fork to gather the ingredients, then transfer the dough to the work surface and continue kneading by hand for a few minutes .
Once you have a smooth and uniform ball , cover it and let it rest for about 30 minutes at room temperature. Meanwhile, focus on the filling: place the washed potatoes with their skin in a pot of salted cold water and boil them for about half an hour ; you can check the cooking with the prongs of a fork. Clean the herbs: remove the hardest and most fibrous part of the stem .
Cut the leaves into strips and place them in a pan with a drizzle of oil and a peeled garlic clove . Add a little salt .
Sauté the herbs for about 5 minutes and at the end, remove the garlic . Mash the boiled potatoes in a bowl .
Add the sautéed herbs , a bit of oil and season with salt and pepper .
Toast the pine nuts in a pan , chop them and add them to the filling .
Finally, mix everything well . Retrieve the rested dough and separate a portion. Flatten it slightly on the floured work surface then pass it through the sheet roller machine, starting from the thickest setting .
After this first pass, fold the dough over itself to make it rectangular and pass it again through the roller at the same thickness . This will make the dough more resistant and the sheet shape more regular. Continue by passing it through the sheet roller machine, gradually reducing the thickness, until the penultimate setting .
Then divide the sheet into 2 equal parts and distribute balls of 0.25 oz (7 g) filling on one of the sheets, at a regular distance . Then cover with the other sheet , making sure the two layers stick well together and around the filling.
With a fluted wheel, cut square ravioli 2.36 inches (6 cm) per side and as they are made, arrange them without overlapping on a tray sprinkled with semolina . You can prepare the sauce: in a pan with a drizzle of oil and a garlic clove, pour the cherry tomatoes with their juice .
Salt , stir, cover with the lid and let it cook for about 30 minutes. If needed, during the last 5 minutes remove the lid to let the sauce reduce better . Finally, remove the garlic .
Fragrance with plenty of hand-torn basil and plunge the ravioli into boiling salted water . Boil them for about 3 minutes and drain them directly into the sauce .
Gently mix them to coat without breaking . Plate with a few more basil leaves and a grind of pepper. Your potato and herb ravioli with sauce are ready to be enjoyed !
Uncooked ravioli can be stored in the fridge for 1 day: make sure they don't absorb too much moisture as they might break. They can be frozen uncooked. The sauce can also be frozen or stored in the fridge for 2 days. You can prepare the filling the day before and store it in the fridge.
If you don't have a sheet roller machine, you can roll out the dough by hand, rolling it thinly with a rolling pin.
Alternatively to the sauce, you can dress your potato and herb ravioli with a walnut pesto.

