name:
Udon with vegetables
ingredients:
Udon: 14.1oz(400 g)- pre-cooked
Yellow peppers: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to clean)
Red peppers: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to clean)
Carrots: 3.5oz(100 g)
Zucchini: ¾cup(100 g)
Fresh scallion: 1cup(100 g)
Fresh ginger: 1.8oz(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1.1oz(30 g)
Vegetable oil: 1spoonful
Sesame seeds: to taste
Soy sauce: 0.3cup(70 g)
Sriracha sauce: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 12 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you're looking for a tasty alternative to regular pasta, join us in preparing these udon with vegetables! A vegetarian dish that is easy and quick to prepare, dedicated to lovers of oriental cuisine. Udon are a type of noodles made with wheat flour, characterized by a soft and elastic texture. The crispy vegetables sautéed in the wok pair perfectly with this type of noodle, and the soy sauce and sriracha sauce seasoning infuses everything with a spicy and sweet-and-sour touch, complemented by the crunchy sesame seeds. We used bell peppers, zucchini, carrots, and scallions because they are easy to find all year round, but you can vary the vegetables according to your preferences and the season... the important thing is to have a lively and colorful mix of ingredients because in Asian cuisine the visual aspect is an integral part of the taste experience!
After trying the udon with vegetables, don't miss these recipes with noodles:
Discover more delicious Asian recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the udon with vegetables, first clean the bell peppers and cut them into strips and then into thin slices . Clean and slice the scallion .
Cut the zucchini into rounds and then into sticks , then slice the garlic .
Do the same for the carrots and ginger .
Finally, slice the chili pepper into rounds . Heat a tablespoon of vegetable oil in a wok, then add the chili, red and yellow bell peppers , garlic, and ginger .
Continue with the carrots, scallion , and zucchini . Cook over high heat for about 7 minutes, stirring often .
Meanwhile, in a small bowl, combine the soy sauce, sriracha sauce , and sesame seeds , then mix .
Season the vegetables with part of the sauce , mix well , and continue cooking for another 3 minutes; in total, they should cook for about 10 minutes. Bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the pre-cooked udon for about 1 minute. Drain and transfer them to the wok .
Add a little more sauce and stir everything for a minute , just enough time to combine the seasoning. Sprinkle with sesame seeds and toss one last time. Plate and finish with sesame seeds to taste. The udon with vegetables are ready to be enjoyed while still hot !
It is recommended to consume the udon with vegetables as soon as they are ready. If necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator in a closed container for up to one day; before serving, you can quickly sauté them in a pan with a little vegetable oil or a splash of water.
Adjust the amount of sriracha sauce according to your taste and desired level of spiciness.
You can use the vegetables you like best... try, for example, with asparagus, green beans, and snow peas!
The udon with vegetables can be enriched with tofu, shrimp, chicken strips, or beef strips.
For an extra crunch, you can add toasted peanuts or cashews.

