name:
Cinnamon Cookies
ingredients:
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- cold
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 1.8oz(50 g)- (about 1 small)
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp- smooth
Wildflower honey: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 32 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour of resting time for the dough

instructions:
Each of us has a favorite season, and they all have their own colors, flavors, and especially scents! The one that inspired us the most is the scent of winter, like that of cookies prepared for the holidays. The one that brings to the air the tang of citrus peels, the enveloping notes of steaming chocolate that fills a cup, and the warmth that emanates from teas, which generally all taste of cinnamon. But what's missing in this wonderful picture? Obviously, a little treat to munch on! Thus, filled with inspiration, we got our hands into the dough and prepared cinnamon cookies. A sweet treat that tastes delicious thanks to its intense aroma that envelops like a protective hug. After all, who can resist the crunchy shortcrust shell, that scent in the air, and the anticipation of a succulent bite? There are various types, from the spiced ones like ginger cookies and these cinnamon ones, to Gluten-free cookies and Teff Cookies cookies! To decorate the cinnamon cookies, we decided to give an almost artistic touch, so with a fluted rolling pin, we gave our shortcrust pastry a 'vichy' checkered pattern. We're about to bake our cinnamon cookies, would you like some?
To prepare the cinnamon cookies, start by making the shortcrust pastry. In a mixer, add the flour, cold butter in small pieces , a pinch of salt, and cinnamon . Pulse briefly until you get a sandy mixture. Turn off the mixer and add the sugar ,
the honey that will give the dough its typical brownish note and the slightly beaten egg . Turn on the mixer again at low speed, just long enough to combine the ingredients .
Then turn the dough onto the work surface and knead quickly just long enough to shape it into a ball. Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour . After the indicated time, take the cinnamon shortcrust pastry and place it on the lightly floured work surface. Then beat it with the rolling pin to give it warmth and make it easier to work with. Sprinkle the surface with a pinch of flour, and roll out the dough using the rolling pin : you need to obtain a sheet about 1/5 inch thick .
To create a decorative pattern, use a fluted rolling pin and press gently onto the sheet, first in one direction (we started with the vertical) , and then in the other to intersect the lines and create a checkered pattern. Now, using a cookie cutter with a diameter of about 2.5 inches (a glass or cup will work too), cut out the first 20 cookies weighing about 1 oz each ; gather the leftover dough, quickly re-knead it, and let it rest again in the refrigerator for about half an hour covered with plastic wrap, so you can roll it out again and cut out more cookies.
As you form the cookies, place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and let them rest in the fridge for 15 minutes before baking, otherwise, they will lose their shape during baking . Bake the cookies in a preheated static oven at 375°F for about 20 minutes. After that time, let them cool completely on a wire rack so they cool well and uniformly, staying crunchy. Here are your fragrant cinnamon cookies ready!
The shortcrust pastry can be prepared a few days in advance and kept in the refrigerator or frozen for up to 1 month. The cinnamon cookies can be stored in a tin box for about ten days.
If you don't have a fluted rolling pin, don't worry, you can get a similar pattern using the tines of a fork (follow the recipe for Ginger Cookies). Orange pairs perfectly with cinnamon... try grating some zest into the dough!

