name:
Pici cacio e pepe
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2.4cups(300 g)
Water: 0.625cup(150 g)- lukewarm
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Fine salt: 1pinch
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to be grated)
Ground black pepper: ½spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the dough in the refrigerator (30 min.)

instructions:
To make the pici with cheese and pepper, first prepare the dough: place the flour on a work surface and form a well, then add the lukewarm water , salt , and oil .
Start mixing with a fork to incorporate the flour into the liquid , then continue working with your hands until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough. Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, crush the black peppercorns in a mortar and grate the Pecorino cheese . After the resting time, take the dough and divide it into portions .
Lightly flour the work surface and roll out the dough with a rolling pin to a thickness of 0.4 inches , then cut it into strips . Roll them with your palms to form long, thin cords of uniform thickness .
After forming all the pici , bring a pot of slightly salted water to a boil. Meanwhile, toast the pepper in a pan , deglazing with a ladle of pasta cooking water .
Drop the pici into the boiling water and drain them directly into the pan with the pepper , then add a little more cooking water .
Add the grated Pecorino cheese off the heat and mix well to melt everything together . Plate the pici with the cheese and pepper sauce .
Finish with more Pecorino cheese and a grind of pepper . Serve your pici with cheese and pepper immediately !
It is recommended to enjoy the pici with cheese and pepper right after preparation.
Adjust the creaminess of the sauce by alternating the addition of cheese and cooking water until you achieve the ideal consistency.
What is the difference between pici and Tonnarelli cacio e pepe ? Both are perfect for this type of sauce, but the latter have a square cross-section!
Looking for other delicious ideas to dress your pici? Try the recipe for Pici with Mushroom and Walnut Bolognese or the classic Pici with Breadcrumbs !

