name:
Banana split
ingredients:
Bananas: 1
Strawberry gelato: 1- ball
Dark chocolate: 2.8oz(80 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2cups(150 ml)
Chopped hazelnuts: to taste
Dark chocolate: to taste- in flakes
Candied cherries: 3
Strawberry jam: 2spoonfuls
Chocolate gelato: 1- ball
Cream gelato: 1- ball

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 1 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
The banana split, a dessert made with fruit and ice cream, is one of the most popular and well-known American sweets in the world, and there are many variants. The banana split consists of a banana cut lengthwise (hence the English word " split " which means to break apart) and covered with three scoops of ice cream (traditionally vanilla, chocolate, and strawberry) which are then topped with whipped cream, strawberry and chocolate topping, candied cherries, chopped hazelnuts, etc. It is said that the first banana split was prepared in 1904 by a student at the University of Pittsburgh who made ends meet by working in his father's bar, but many American locations claim the invention of this popular summer dessert. In Wilmington, Ohio, the "Banana Split Festival" is celebrated every year, where all participants showcase their special version of this delicious dessert. We present you the most classic and traditional version of the banana split, which can be prepared with the ice cream flavors you like best and garnished with your preferred toppings and fruit sauces. Additionally, you can make the banana split even more delicious by adding extra fresh fruit to taste!
To prepare the banana split, start by preparing the two toppings: for the chocolate topping, chop the dark chocolate with a knife , melt it in a double boiler, and add about 1 oz of cream heated in a saucepan, stirring continuously . Strain 2 tablespoons of strawberry jam to remove the seeds and obtain a puree. Whip the remaining fresh cream.
Cut a banana in half lengthwise and place it on an oval or "boat" plate. Then, place a scoop of strawberry ice cream, a scoop of vanilla ice cream, and a scoop of chocolate ice cream . Decorate with the strawberry and chocolate toppings as desired, and with whipped cream . Finally, garnish the banana split with chopped hazelnuts, chocolate shavings, and candied cherries.

