name:
Yogurt Ice Cream
ingredients:
Yogurt: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(125 ml)
Whole milk: ½cup(125 ml)
Sugar: ½cup(120 g)
Glucose: 2tsp(10 g)
Carob seed powder: 1tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Yogurt ice cream is a refreshing dessert made with fresh milk, creamy yogurt, sugar, and glucose that gives it creaminess and helps preserve the ice cream over time. Easy and quick to make, it is possible to prepare an amazing homemade yogurt ice cream without any effort. You can enjoy your yogurt ice cream on its own or pair it with a soft and appetizing slice of cake. Additionally, you can enrich it with pieces of fresh seasonal fruit to create many tasty variations. In recent years, yogurt ice cream has been preferred over other flavors because it is lighter and tastier, and it does not use eggs, making it suitable even for those who are allergic to the proteins in egg whites or yolks.
To prepare the yogurt ice cream, pour the cream and milk into a saucepan, add the sugar , glucose , and locust bean gum then stir to dissolve all ingredients: bring the mixture to 176-185°F, then, once it reaches the indicated temperature, immediately place the saucepan in an ice water bath to quickly lower the temperature. Cover the saucepan with a lid and refrigerate well for at least two hours.
When the mixture is well chilled, add the yogurt (also very cold), stir to combine the ingredients, then place everything in the ice cream maker and churn for at least half an hour or until the ice cream is creamy and very thick . Pour the ice cream into a container with a lid and freeze for at least three to four hours.
Yogurt ice cream can be kept in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 1 week.
You can accompany your yogurt ice cream with fresh fruit or chocolate pieces. Try it! Locust bean gum is a product available in natural and organic stores and pharmacies; it comes in light and dark versions (like the one we used in this recipe) and helps make the ice cream denser. If you can't find it, you can easily omit it.

