name:
Stuffed Mussels
ingredients:
Mussels: 1.1lbs(500 g)- already cleaned
Bread: 7oz(200 g)- crumb
Cheese: 1oz(30 g)- Grated Rodez cheese
Water: 3cups(700 ml)- for soaking
Garlic: 1clove
Eggs: 1- medium
Parsley: to taste- to chop
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Tomato purée: 3 ¼cups(750 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The recipes from our bloggers, guests in the GialloZafferano kitchen, continue: today it's Nunzia Bellomo's turn, from the blog Miele di Lavanda , who presents a specialty from her homeland, Puglia! Nunzia, together with Sonia, will take us to discover a tasty second course based on stuffed mussels, with a delicious filling, and cooked in sauce. Stuffed mussels are a really good way to cook these shellfish, the main ingredient of many other Apulian recipes, including fried ones ; the filling is made with soaked bread crumbs, chopped parsley, pecorino cheese, and eggs and is used to stuff the mussels opened raw. The peculiarity is that the mussels, once stuffed, are closed, with a gesture that only Apulian housewives know and which Nunzia will illustrate to us, with a thread of cotton to prevent the filling from spilling out during cooking in the tomato sauce! Once at the table, help yourself with small scissors or a knife: you'll taste how delicious these stuffed mussels are!
To prepare the stuffed mussels, start by soaking the bread in water: place the crumbs of bread without the crust (or place the bread with the crust that you will remove later) in a bowl with about 2 cups of water. Leave the crumbs in the water until they are soft . Meanwhile, chop the parsley and garlic for later. Squeeze the crumbs well, placing them in a colander and pressing them with the back of a spoon .
Add the squeezed crumbs, chopped parsley, and minced garlic (4-5), the grated cheese (alternatively, you can use Pecorino Romano) ,
then the salt, pepper, and the egg . Knead the ingredients with your hands or with a fork to obtain a firm and homogeneous mixture that you will set aside .
Now you need to open the raw mussels, which you have already scraped of impurities ( click here to see how to clean mussels ): slightly squeeze the shell of the shellfish with your fingers so that the valves open slightly; then, starting from the side of the mussel that has a protrusion, insert the tip of a small knife pointing downward, to cut the muscle . At this point, turn around the shellfish with the knife , making sure to always keep the blade pointing downward, and open the mussel keeping the flesh only on one side.
Once all the mussels are open, take small quantities of the mixture and fill each mussel until you finish them (13-14). Once filled, take each mussel again and close it with cotton thread, removing any excess mixture that spills out. Take a sewing cotton thread and wrap it several times around the mussel, tightening .
Once secured, pass the thread through the mussel and pull down to secure the closure (16-17). Remember to remove all excess mixture before cooking the mussels so as not to dirty the sauce .
In a tall and narrow pot, which allows the mussels to be completely immersed in the sauce, we put a clove of garlic and extra virgin olive oil ; sauté the oil and add the tomato puree . As soon as the sauce starts to boil, add the mussels one by one gently and let them cook, covered, on low heat for about 15/20 minutes . The stuffed mussels will be ready to be enjoyed: take them out of the sauce and serve them at the table! To cut the cotton, use a knife or small scissors; you can use the sauce to dress pasta!
Stuffed mussels can be stored in the refrigerator, covered, for about 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
As my father taught me, the secret to mouth-watering mussels is in their water: when you open them, instead of discarding it, collect it in a small bowl and soak the bread in it (the best is the one from Puglia, from Altamura, perfect for absorbing delicious sauces!), you'll feel the wonder! From a technical point of view, it changes little: the mussels will release about 7 oz of liquid, to which you will need to add about 10 oz of water.

