name:
Cocoa biscuit dough
ingredients:
Eggs: 7.8oz(220 g)- about 4 medium
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 5tbsp(25 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(35 g)
Honey: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Water: 1spoonful
Vanilla extract: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 6 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + cooling times

instructions:
The Biscuit dough recipe is our secret to achieving perfect, soft, and delicious rolls filled with jams, custard , Ganache cream ... The cocoa biscuit dough version is equally perfect for your sweet preparations, creating striking color contrasts with an extra touch of flavor. This type of sponge cake is a soft and thin base characterized by an elastic texture that allows it to be rolled without difficulty, creating exquisite preparations: try our version of Cocoa roll with milk cream or the one with Cocoa roll with white chocolate cream ; they will be perfect to serve as a dessert or a snack for the greediest!
To make the biscuit dough, first separate the yolks (they should weigh about 80 g) from the egg whites (which should weigh about 120 g) ; in the bowl with the yolks, add the honey , vanilla extract , and water.
Add 30 g of sugar taken from the total amount . Beat the yolks with an electric whisk until they become light and frothy. Set aside, clean the whisks well. Then add the remaining sugar (50 g) to the bowl with the egg whites ;
beat the egg whites and sugar with clean whisks (7-8); the egg whites should be beaten until soft peaks form (so that lumps don't form when you combine them with other ingredients). Combine the yolk mixture with the beaten egg whites .
In a separate bowl, sift cocoa and flour and add it to the egg mixture , stirring gently with a spatula from bottom to top to avoid deflating the mixture .
Once the powders are incorporated , take a baking tray measuring approximately 18x14.5 inches, lightly buttered and lined with parchment paper, then spread the mixture evenly with a spatula over the entire surface: it should have a thickness of about 0.4 inches . Bake the cocoa biscuit dough in a preheated static oven at 428°F for 6-7 minutes (no more).
During the cooking time, you must never open the oven, so that moisture is retained inside. Remove the biscuit dough from the oven and let it cool. Once cool, remove it from the tray, flip it onto a cutting board or work surface, being careful not to break it, and gently peel off the parchment paper ; now the cocoa biscuit dough is ready to be filled to your taste .
The cocoa biscuit dough can be stored for about 3 days in the refrigerator wrapped in plastic wrap; it can also be prepared well in advance of when you need to use it. It is possible to freeze it, keeping it always wrapped in plastic wrap.

With biscuit dough, you can make filled rolls with various creams or jams or logs. You can also cut it out with pastry rings to make layered cakes, instead of sponge cake.

