name:
Sticky rice
ingredients:
Rice: ½cup(100 g)- parboiled
Coconut milk: 1.7cups(400 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Mango: ½
Sesame seeds: to taste- black and white

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average
Note + soaking time for the rice (1 h)

instructions:
Among the dishes that cannot be missed in a typical Thai menu are definitely Pad thai , Thai green curry and mango sticky rice! Sticky rice is a traditional dessert made with rice and coconut milk, garnished with fresh mango. If you've never tried it, you'll be surprised… its main characteristic, from which it gets its name, is the sticky texture of the rice that is first soaked to remove starch and then steamed. The grains will then be ready to absorb all the flavor of the coconut milk, giving you a creamy and fragrant result that contrasts with the delicately tangy freshness of the mango! Perfect even for those following a vegan diet, sticky rice is an exotic dessert to enjoy at the end of a meal but also for breakfast, as an alternative to porridge .

To make sticky rice, first soak the rice for an hour . After this time, bring a pot of water to a boil, then place a steamer basket on top with a sheet of parchment paper at the bottom .
Drain the rice and place it in the steamer , then cover with the lid and cook for 15 minutes .
In the meantime, heat the coconut milk and sugar in a saucepan . Once cooked, add the rice as well and bring the mixture to a boil again. At this point, lower the heat and cook for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally . You will need to achieve a creamy consistency.
Meanwhile, peel the mango and cut it first into slices and then into cubes .
When the rice is ready, pour it into a bowl and let it cool slightly , then garnish with mango and sesame seeds . Your sticky rice is ready to be served warm or cold !
Sticky rice without mango can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can replace the mango with another tropical fruit, like papaya, or with berries!

