name:
Fried red mullets with anchovy butter
ingredients:
Red mullet: 4- (whole not gutted)
Butter: 0.9cup(200 g)- (of high quality, at room temperature)
Anchovies in oil: 0.7oz(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Eggs: 2- (medium)
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Vegetable oil: to taste
Capers: to taste- powdered

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: High

instructions:
The fried red mullets with anchovy butter are a main course for refined palates! Chef Philippe Léveillé was inspired by a typically French recipe, the sole Colbert, to create this gourmet version. To make it, you must pay particular attention to the choice of ingredients, especially the butter, which will be the main feature of this dish: choose high-quality butter for a perfect result! Another very important thing is the cleaning of the red mullets: for the success of the dish, the underside must remain intact, and the red mullets should be delicately deboned to not ruin their flesh. With the right oil temperature, you will achieve a dry and light fry; the red mullet will have the perfect shape to be filled with the butter and anchovy cream, while the caper powder will provide the right saltiness! Prepare this high-cuisine dish yourself and feel like a great chef for a day. Discover more recipes with red mullets:
To prepare the fried red mullets with anchovy butter, clean the red mullets: remove the dorsal fins , the side fins , and the lower fins . It's important to use ungutted red mullets and be careful not to puncture the belly part.
Now, as if you were to fillet it, cut along the back and slide the knife parallel to the bone . Do not go all the way to the bottom; you should only indicate it. Turn the red mullet over and do the same on the other side . Then spread the two fillets to detach them well from the central bone .
Now using scissors, cut the bone from both the head and tail ends . Remove it with your hands and eliminate the internal entrails .
With tweezers, remove any remaining bones . Clean all the red mullets this way. Now move on to making the butter cream. Pour the butter into the bowl of a stand mixer and whip it with the paddle attachment .
Then add the anchovy fillets and continue to whip until they are dissolved and you have obtained a homogeneous cream. Then transfer it to a piping bag fitted with a star nozzle . Proceed to the breading of the red mullet, spread it, and pass only the inside in the flour .
Then, still only the inside, first in the egg and then in the breadcrumbs . Transfer to a tray and continue this way for the others.
Heat the oil in a pan until it reaches a temperature of 350°F. Now immerse it in the oil , holding the head and tail up , being very careful not to burn yourself. Then let the head slide into the oil and finally the tail . The oil temperature should never exceed 355°F.
Drain on a tray with kitchen paper , dab to remove excess oil. Now transfer to a plate and fill the inside with the anchovy butter cream . Add caper powder on top and serve it .
We recommend consuming the fried red mullets immediately. The butter cream can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
The oil temperature to maintain and frying only a few pieces at a time is essential for a dry and crispy fry. Holding the red mullet during frying as shown helps to cook the meatiest part first and then evenly the head and tail.


