name:
Puff Pastry Savory Snacks
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1lb(460 g)- 2 rectangular rolls
Tomato purée: 0.67cup(150 g)
Pecorino cheese: 0.9oz(25 g)- grated
Oregano: to taste
Puff pastry: 16.2oz(460 g)- 2 rectangular rolls
Stracchino cheese: 6.5oz(185 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 4.2oz(120 g)
Olive patè: 5.5oz(160 g)
Eggs: 1
Milk: ⅛cup(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Puff pastry snacks are perfect to serve as an appetizer, to accompany a cocktail or for a buffet. Puff pastry is ideal for quick and versatile preparations, from rustic pies to savory pies, and even desserts. These snacks are a true delight to enjoy at any time of the day, and you will be amazed by their light and flaky texture that encloses a rich and tasty filling. The strong point of puff pastry snacks is the ability to customize the filling according to your tastes: we offer you a tomato version, an olive pâté version, and a cooked ham and stracchino cheese version. Have fun experimenting with other ingredients to create unique combinations that will delight your guests' palates!
If you are looking for other recipes with puff pastry, you can also try:

To prepare the tomato puff pastry snacks, first, unroll the puff pastry along with its parchment paper, then spread the tomato sauce over the entire surface . Add the grated pecorino cheese and finally the oregano . Cover with the second sheet of puff pastry, aligning the edges. Seal the edges well so they do not open during baking, and transfer everything onto a baking tray.
For the cooked ham and stracchino cheese snacks, unroll one sheet of puff pastry, add the stracchino cheese, and spread it over the entire surface of the pastry . Then arrange the slices of cooked ham neatly . Cover with the second pastry sheet, seal the edges well so they do not open during baking, and transfer everything onto a baking tray .
For the olive pâté snacks, unroll another sheet of puff pastry, add the olive pâté , and spread it over the entire surface . Cover with the second sheet of puff pastry, sealing the edges well so they do not open during baking, and transfer everything onto a baking tray .
Cut the three pastries into strips of about 3/4 inch in width, first on the long side and then on the short side. In a bowl, mix the egg with the milk, beat vigorously with a fork , and brush the surface of the filled pastries . Bake in a convection oven at 356°F for 25 minutes or until the surface is golden. Let them cool for a moment before dividing them. Your puff pastry snacks are ready to be enjoyed !
Puff pastry snacks can be stored in a cool, dry place for 2 days. You can prepare them and keep them in the refrigerator, ready to be baked, for one day.
You can freeze them in appropriate freezer bags.
You can substitute green olive pâté with black olive pâté or alternatively with basil pesto.
You can use any type of soft cheese and any type of deli meat. The strength of these snacks is the ability to vary the filling to your liking!

