name:
Chicken Cutlets
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 7.1oz(200 g)
Eggs: 1
Type 00 flour: 0.67cup(80 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(120 g)
Salt: 2pinches
Peanut seed oil: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Lemons: 1clove
Lettuce: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Chicken cutlets are a simple and tasty meat main course that everyone at the table will agree on. They are easy to prepare and can be cooked not only in a pan but also in a lighter way, such as baked chicken cutlets . The classic breading involves using flour, eggs, and breadcrumbs, but you can also use other alternative breadings, such as in the recipe for Chicken breast with corn flakes , for a crunchier coating, or you can add a mixture of herbs. You'll have plenty of choices to accompany your chicken cutlets: French fries , salads, Grilled Vegetables , etc. With this recipe, you'll be able to bring an irresistible dish to the table that will win everyone over!
Try these variations too:

To prepare the chicken cutlets, first cut the chicken breast into very thin slices (about 1/8 to 1/4 inch thick). Crack an egg and pour it into a plate, add the salt , and beat vigorously with a fork . Place the breadcrumbs and flour in two separate plates. Dip both sides of the slices in the egg , letting the excess drip off.
Then pass them in the flour , again in the egg , and then in the breadcrumbs, pressing gently to make it adhere well . Ensure that these steps fully cover the chicken breast slices with the ingredients.
Heat the peanut oil to a temperature of about 320°F. Immerse the slices one at a time and cook for two minutes on each side until the surface becomes golden . The chicken cutlets are ready, serve them with lemon wedges and some lettuce leaves.
You can prepare the chicken cutlets in advance and store them in the refrigerator for up to 24 hours in a sealed container. They can be frozen, cooked or raw, separated by parchment paper, in appropriate freezer bags.
For an even crunchier breading, you can replace the breadcrumbs with corn flakes. You can serve chicken cutlets with French fries or baked potatoes, or prepare an excellent cutlet sandwich with some lettuce leaves, tomatoes, and the sauces you like best.

