name:
Pasta with zucchini, shrimp, and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Spaghettoni: 11.3oz(320 g)- square
Shrimps: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (tails)
Cherry tomatoes: 2cups(300 g)
Zucchini: 2cups(250 g)
Lemons: 1
Garlic: 2cloves
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the pasta with zucchini, shrimp, and cherry tomatoes, first take care of the shrimp tails. That is, shell them and remove the internal filament with your hands, or alternatively use a toothpick . At this point, wash the lemon well, dry it, and peel the zest with a vegetable peeler .
Then squeeze the juice . In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, the peeled and halved garlic clove, and the lemon zest . Let it infuse for a few minutes over medium heat, then add the shrimp .
Increase the heat and sauté them for a few minutes until they change color , then pour in the lemon juice , add a pinch of salt, and cook for another 1-2 minutes until the juice has reduced. Remove the garlic and lemon peels and set the shrimp aside in a bowl .
Chop the well-washed cherry tomatoes with a knife and cut the washed zucchini into slices about 1/4 inch thick . In the same pan where you cooked the shrimp, pour a drizzle of oil and the parsley stems. Heat and add the zucchini .
Sauté the zucchini until they are slightly browned , then add the cherry tomatoes , salt, and cook everything for about 10 minutes .
Cook the spaghetti in boiling water and meanwhile finely chop the parsley . Drain the spaghetti al dente and transfer it to the sauce .
Add the shrimp you had set aside and toss everything well over high heat. Turn off the heat, add black pepper, a drizzle of raw oil, and chopped parsley . Your pasta is ready to serve .
We recommend consuming the pasta immediately; alternatively, it can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 day.
If you want to make the dish even more fragrant, grate lemon zest over the finished dish. Add a spoonful of arugula pesto to make it even more unique!

