name:
Complete Breton Galette
ingredients:
Buckwheat flour: (150 g)
Water: (300 g)
Eggs: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Prosciutto cotto: (260 g)
Gruyere cheese: (280 g)
Eggs: 4
Marjoram: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Note + the resting time in the fridge for the batter (at least 30 min.)

instructions:
Among all the delicacies of French cuisine, there is one perhaps less known than others but equally delicious: the complete Breton galette! Typical of the Brittany region, it consists of a Buckwheat crepe filled with egg, cooked ham, and melted cheese. The savory crepe is then folded into a square shape to frame the filling, which can have many variations. Here we offer you the most classic version, called complète because it can be considered a main dish due to the presence of a Eggs al tegamino . Rustic and tasty, the complete Breton galette is assembled directly in the pan and is perfect for lunch or why not, for a hearty brunch!
Discover also these galette recipes:

To prepare the complete Breton galette, start with the batter: put the flour in a large bowl, add salt and pour in the water slowly while stirring with a hand whisk . Add the egg and incorporate it into the mixture.
Finally, add the oil and mix again. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. Meanwhile, grate the Gruyere cheese using a coarse grater .
After the resting time, give the batter another stir to soften it , then grease a non-stick pan with a base diameter of 12 inches with a bit of oil . Place it on the heat, and when it's hot, pour a generous ladleful of batter into the center . Rotate the pan to spread it evenly and cook for about 2 minutes over medium-low heat.
When the edges start to lift , gently flip it with a spatula , then pour an egg into the center .
Distribute the grated cheese around the egg, leaving the outer edge free; the melted cheese will help the egg stay in place . Salt and pepper the egg and continue to cook for another 2-3 minutes, until the egg white is cooked. At this point, place about 2.3 oz of sliced cooked ham around the egg .
Lift the edges of the crepe with a spatula and fold them inward to form a kind of square with the filling still visible . Proceed in the same way to make the other 3. Serve your complete Breton galette garnished with marjoram leaves !
It is recommended to consume the complete Breton galette immediately, otherwise the crepe will absorb moisture and lose its crunchiness.
If you wish, you can prepare the batter the night before and keep it in the refrigerator overnight, so the batter will be easier to spread.
Experiment with new variations by replacing the filling ingredients as you like: for example, you can add spinach or champignon mushrooms!

