name:
Fried Stuffed Sandwich
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (strong)
Water: 3cups(700 g)
Fine salt: 4 ½tsp(25 g)
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(3 g)
Stracciatella cheese: 10.6oz(300 g)- from buffalo milk
Prosciutto crudo: 7oz(200 g)
Arugula: 4 ½cups(100 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the rising time (about 8 hours total)

instructions:
How many delicious things can be made with pizza dough ? From the Battilocchio napoletano to the panuozzo and even fried angioletti, the answer is... countless! In keeping with this tradition, Davide Civitiello also shows us how to make the fried stuffed sandwich: a recipe that joins other Neapolitan delicacies that you absolutely must try when you find yourself in Naples or, if not, make at home with your own hands. How? Easy, by following the instructions of the famous pizza master who explains how to work the dough from scratch for use in whatever way you prefer. Here we offer you a super appetizing version of the fried stuffed sandwich filled with prosciutto, arugula, and buffalo stracciatella... we can't wait to hear what you think!
Also, don't miss out on these specialties prepared with pizza dough:

To prepare the fried stuffed sandwich, start with the pizza dough: in a large bowl, pour the flour and yeast , mix with one hand and gradually add the water , continuing to blend the mixture (you can also use a wooden spoon) .
When the water has been completely absorbed, add the salt and incorporate it evenly into the dough first while in the bowl and then on the work surface. Knead for about 15 minutes in total, giving slap&fold folds .
At this point, form a ball, cover with the bowl , and let it rest at room temperature for 5 minutes. After this time, give it a few more folds, then cover the dough again with the bowl and let it rest for another 30 minutes. Once rested, divide the dough with a scraper to obtain 6 dough balls, each weighing about 10 oz .
Give folds to the dough balls by pulling the edges from the outside towards the inside , then roll them on the work surface to form small balls . Place the balls in a proofing box, spacing them well apart , then close with the lid and let them rise for about 6-8 hours at a temperature of about 64°-75°F.
After the rising time, the dough balls will have doubled in volume . Spread the balls on a lightly floured work surface by pressing them gently with your fingers , just enough to get a disc about 8 inches in diameter .
Heat the seed oil to a temperature of 356°F, then immerse the dough disc and fry it on both sides, using a ladle to pour the boiling oil onto the surface as well . When the sandwich becomes nicely puffed and golden (it will take about 5-6 minutes in total), drain and transfer it to a rack (or onto frying paper).
You're ready to fill it: cut the sandwich in half with a pair of scissors , then add plenty of arugula .
Complete with buffalo stracciatella and slices of prosciutto . Your fried stuffed sandwich is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the fried stuffed sandwich immediately after preparation.
If the dough is still sticky at the end of the processing phase, you can flour it lightly and gradually.
If you don't have a proofing box, you can use a tray covered with lightly oiled plastic wrap.
Also try the typical Neapolitan sandwiches , a non-fried but equally irresistible variant!

