name:
Coconut and Chocolate Cubes
ingredients:
Cookies: 6.3oz(180 g)
Butter: 11tbsp(155 g)
Shredded coconut: ¾cup(60 g)
Shredded coconut: 2 ½cups(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.625cup(150 g)
Butter: 3.1oz(90 g)
Sugar: 5.67tbsp(70 g)
Dark chocolate 55%: 8.1oz(230 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.42cup(100 g)
Shredded coconut: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + resting time in the fridge (at least 4 h)

instructions:
Coconut and dark chocolate: two ingredients that go wonderfully well together and can be used to create irresistible recipes... a winning combination we've used to make an easy and super delicious dessert without baking, the coconut and chocolate cubes! In this layered preparation, the biscuit base, typical of cheesecakes, is topped with a filling made from shredded coconut and a layer of dark chocolate Ganache cream . Simply wait for the resting time in the refrigerator to cut the cake into smaller pieces to share with your friends and family... or, why not, even with your colleagues. Once tried, the coconut and chocolate cubes will become so requested that you'll have to make them again and again!
If you are a fan of no-bake desserts, don't miss out:

To prepare the coconut and chocolate cubes, first melt the butter in a saucepan and let it cool slightly. In the meantime, place the digestive biscuits in the mixer and blend until they are reduced to powder . Transfer everything into a bowl and add the shredded coconut .
Pour in the melted and cooled butter and mix until you get a sandy mixture. Pour it into a 20x20 cm (8x8 in) mold lined with parchment paper and press it down with the back of a spoon to level and compact it . Let it rest in the refrigerator for 5 minutes.
Meanwhile, prepare the coconut filling: in a saucepan over low heat, combine the butter, sugar , and cream and stir to melt the butter thoroughly .
When the mixture is about to boil, pour it over the shredded coconut that you have placed in a bowl , then stir until you obtain a homogeneous mixture . Transfer the mixture into the mold and press it down well to form a compact and uniform layer . Let it rest in the refrigerator for another 5 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the topping: chop the dark chocolate and melt it in a double boiler (or in the microwave) , then transfer it to a bowl. In a separate saucepan, bring the cream to just below boiling, then add it to the melted chocolate and mix well . Allow it to cool slightly.
Take the mold from the fridge, pour the cooled ganache over the coconut layer , and spread it with a spoon . Finally, sprinkle with shredded coconut . Place in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours.
After the cooling time has elapsed, unmold the dessert and remove the parchment paper , then cut it into square pieces . Your coconut and chocolate cubes are ready to be enjoyed !
The coconut and chocolate cubes can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for 3 days.
You can substitute dark chocolate with extra dark or milk chocolate.
If desired, you can flavor the coconut layer with a pinch of cinnamon or vanilla.

