name:
Creamy Pasta with Broad Beans
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.5oz(320 g)
Fava beans: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (to be shelled)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ¾cup(200 g)
Lemons: 1- (juice and zest)
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: to taste
Mint: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Lemon peel: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pasta and ricotta is one of the first courses that is simplest and most appreciated by everyone, both adults and children. To honor the spring, we have created a tasty variation: creamy pasta with broad beans! These tasty seasonal legumes, rich in beneficial properties, are transformed into a velvety cream enriched right with ricotta, the ideal dressing to wrap a long pasta shape like linguine. The scent of lemon, basil, and mint goes perfectly with the broad beans and teases the palate with a fresh and delicate note. Easy to prepare, light and tasty, creamy pasta with broad beans is a vegetarian recipe also suitable for special occasions thanks to its elegant and refined plating!
Try also other delicious first courses with broad beans:

To prepare the creamy pasta with broad beans, first shell the broad beans and bring a pot of salted water to a boil; you will need to obtain about 10.5 oz of shelled broad beans. Blanch the broad beans for 2-3 minutes , then drain and transfer them to a bowl with ice water to stop the cooking and maintain the vivid color . Once cooled, peel the broad beans by removing the outer skin .
Pour the broad beans into a jug, taking care to set aside a few whole ones for plating . Add the ricotta , then flavor with basil leaves, mint leaves, and grated lemon zest .
Add the lemon juice , 2 tablespoons of oil , salt , and pepper.
Adjust the consistency with a little water , then blend with an immersion blender to obtain a smooth and silky cream .
At this point, cook the linguine until al dente in boiling salted water . Meanwhile, in a pan, flavor a swirl of oil with a garlic clove for a couple of minutes , then remove it .
Pour the broad bean cream and heat it over low heat, stirring often . Drain the pasta here and toss briefly ; if necessary, you can add a little cooking water to combine everything. When the pasta is well amalgamated, turn off the heat.
Plate and top with more sauce , then garnish with the whole broad beans set aside .
Perfume with a few basil and mint leaves and some grated lemon zest . Your creamy pasta with broad beans is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the creamy pasta with broad beans immediately. If necessary, it can be stored in the refrigerator for at most one day.
If you prefer, you can omit the mint and flavor the creamy pasta with broad beans with just basil.
For an equally simple and creamy variant, don’t miss the recipe for Pasta with ricotta cream and fava beans !

