name:
Pasta with eggplant cream and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Fusilloni pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Eggplant: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 1.8cups(300 g)
Brown sugar: 1spoonful
Dried chili pepper: to taste
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pasta with eggplant cream and cherry tomatoes is a simple yet full-flavored first course, perfect for showcasing the authentic flavors of summer. The fusilloni, with their twisted shape, perfectly hold the sauce made with baked eggplants blended into a velvety sauce. Fresh basil enhances its Mediterranean taste, while dried chili pepper adds a lively kick that makes a difference. Finally, the cherry tomatoes play a pivotal role in this recipe: besides adding a touch of color, they complete the dish and help flavor the eggplants with their cooking juices!
If you are looking for a balanced dish that requires few ingredients and is easy to prepare, pasta with eggplant cream and cherry tomatoes is just what you need: great for a family lunch or dinner with friends, it's also a delightful vegetarian idea for a light and satisfying meal!
Try these variations of pasta with eggplants :

To prepare the pasta with eggplant cream and cherry tomatoes, start with the eggplants: wash them and trim the ends . First, slice them , then cut into sticks and finally into 1/2-inch cubes .
Transfer the eggplants to a baking sheet and season with oil , salt, chili pepper , and torn basil .
Mix with your hands to evenly flavor the eggplants, then set aside . Proceed with the cherry tomatoes: cut them in half and season with oil .
Add salt and brown sugar as well . Bake both the eggplants and cherry tomatoes in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 35-40 minutes, placing the trays on the same rack . After the cooking time, the eggplants will be golden .
The cherry tomatoes, on the other hand, will have released their juices . Set aside some eggplants for plating , then strain the tomatoes' cooking juices to season the remaining eggplants on the tray .
Transfer the seasoned eggplants to a blender , add a few basil leaves and blend thoroughly .
Cook the pasta in boiling salted water. Meanwhile, pour the eggplant cream into a pan and thin it with a ladle of the cooking water . Drain the pasta al dente and transfer it directly to the pan , then toss it, adding water as needed .
Mix well and turn off the heat, then finish with a drizzle of raw oil and more fresh basil . Plate and garnish with cherry tomatoes, the reserved eggplants, and a few more basil leaves. Your pasta with eggplant cream and cherry tomatoes is ready to be served !
Pasta with eggplant cream and cherry tomatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you wish, you can enrich your pasta with eggplant cream and cherry tomatoes with cheese: use ricotta or robiola for a delicate flavor, feta or goat cheese for a tangy and bold taste, or some grated salted ricotta!

