name:
Mojito mousse
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: 0.85cup(200 g)
Lime juice: 0.4cup(100 g)
Lime peel: 2
Mint syrup: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Rum: 1.4oz(40 g)
Sugar: 3 ½tsp(15 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.25oz(7 g)
Sugar: 1cup(190 g)
Egg whites: 6tbsp(90 g)
Water: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Lime: to taste- sliced
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time in the fridge (10-15 min.)

instructions:
Summer calls for freshness... even in desserts! That's why we offer you a spoon dessert inspired by one of the most famous cocktails in the world: mojito mousse. Perfect for those who love experimenting in the kitchen by revisiting the most classic preparations, the mojito mousse will win you over at the first taste with its balance between sweetness and acidity. The main ingredients are those of the famous mojito , namely lime juice, mint, and rum, but what binds these elements together is the Italian meringue and cream, which give the mousse a soft and creamy consistency that literally melts in your mouth. Ideal to serve at the end of a meal to impress your guests, or at any other time of the day, the mojito mousse will immediately make you feel on vacation with its exotic taste and irresistible aroma!
Also try these delicious variants, from the traditional chocolate mousse to more summery ones:

To prepare the mojito mousse, first soak the gelatin sheets . Meanwhile, grate the lime zest into a saucepan and also pour in the lime juice .
Add the sugar and heat for a few minutes, stirring. At this point, add the well-squeezed gelatin and let it dissolve completely .
Transfer everything to a bowl, then add the mint syrup and the rum and mix. Cover with plastic wrap and let cool to room temperature.
Meanwhile, prepare the Italian meringue starting with the syrup: in a saucepan, pour 5.3 oz of sugar and the water . Heat and let the sugar dissolve, being sure to monitor the temperature with a thermometer; it should reach 250°F. Meanwhile, in a bowl, add the egg whites and the remaining 1.4 oz of sugar , then start whisking. When the syrup reaches temperature, pour it into the egg whites in a thin stream , continuing to whisk at low speed until the mixture has cooled.
The Italian meringue will be ready when it looks glossy and lifting the beaters will form a peak with a tip , the so-called “beak”. Add the meringue to the mint mixture and mix with a whisk to incorporate it . Let it rest in the fridge for about 10-15 minutes, so it sets but doesn’t gel.
In the meantime, semi-whip the cream . Take the mixture from the fridge and fold in the semi-whipped cream , stirring gently from bottom to top . Transfer everything to a piping bag.
Distribute the mousse into 6 glasses with a capacity of about 3.5 oz , then decorate with lime slices and mint leaves . Keep refrigerated until serving. Your mojito mousse is ready to enjoy !
The mojito mousse can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
For a non-alcoholic version, you can omit the rum and slightly increase the amount of lime juice or mint syrup. If you prefer a more pronounced alcoholic note, you can use spiced rum, which will give the dessert an enveloping flavor.
You can add crumbled cookies or a crunchy base like a cheesecake to the bottom of the glasses.

