name:
Creamy pasta with mussels and clams
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Tomato purée: 1.7cups(400 g)
Tomato paste: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parsley: ½cup(25 g)- (only the leaves)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6.67tbsp(90 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
If you are looking for a simple first course of the sea but capable of impressing, creamy pasta with mussels and clams is the perfect recipe for you. An irresistible dish where the creaminess of the sauce meets the intense flavor of the seafood, enhanced by delicate tomato puree and a fresh parsley sauce that smells like summer.
All you need is to choose the freshest mussels and clams to create a quick but tasty sauce. In a few steps, you will bring to the table an elegant and flavorful recipe, perfect for a Sunday lunch or a dinner with friends. Prepare this pasta with mussels and clams and let yourself be conquered by the authentic taste of the sea: a creamy, fragrant, and surprising dish that will immediately become one of your favorites!
Here are other delicious variations of this pasta with seafood:
To prepare the creamy pasta with mussels and clams, start by How to clean clams the latter. Leave the clams to soak in water and salt for about an hour . If you purchase uncleaned mussels, then you can follow our cooking school . Do this under a stream of water by removing the surface impurities and the byssus. Pour the mussels into a saucepan and let them open with the lid: from time to time, shake to open them evenly .
In about 5 minutes, they will all be open , drain and filter the liquid . Repeat the operation for the clams: after draining and rinsing them, toss them into the saucepan .
Close and shake from time to time . In about 3-4 minutes, they will be open , ready to be filtered .
Set the liquid aside, and when they have cooled, you can shell them, reserving a few shells for decoration . In a saucepan, heat the garlic and parsley stems in a drizzle of oil, pour in the tomato puree , rinsing the container .
Add the tomato paste , stir, and do not add salt . It will take about 15 minutes; at the end of cooking, remove the garlic and parsley stems .
Then prepare the parsley sauce: add the leaves into a blender cup, add the oil , and blend to obtain a smooth sauce .
Cook the linguine in boiling but unsalted water and drain into the sauce 1-2 minutes after the halfway time indicated on the package . Moisten with the filtered water of mussels and clams and stir continuously .
When the pasta is cooked, turn off the heat and add the parsley sauce, mussels, and clams , and mix, adding a little pasta water if needed . Your creamy pasta with mussels and clams is ready, all that's left is to enjoy it .
It is advisable to consume the creamy pasta with mussels and clams immediately.
To make the creamy pasta with mussels and clams more interesting, add a piece of chili pepper to the initial sauté, it will make the dish even tastier.
The tomato paste greatly helps make the sauce creamier, you can also omit it, but let the puree cook a little longer.

