name:
Lemon rolls
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 4 ½cups(550 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)- at room temperature
Butter: 2.8oz(80 g)
Sugar: 5tbsp(60 g)
Eggs: 1.9oz(55 g)- (about 1 medium)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.4oz(10 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Butter: 6 ¼tbsp(90 g)
Lemon peel: 0.4oz(10 g)
Cream cheese: ¾cup(200 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(120 g)
Lemon juice: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Lemon peel: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + rising time (about 2 h 30 min.)

instructions:
Lemon rolls are a delicious lemon variant of the famous cinnamon rolls , the sweet cinnamon spirals that have captured the hearts of food lovers worldwide from Sweden! The soft leavened dough remains the same, but it is the intense aroma of citrus that characterizes this recipe. In fact, the lemon zest and juice will add a pleasant freshness to both the butter and sugar filling and the glaze, made with creamy cheese. Along with the original version and the one enriched with apples, the lemon rolls will satisfy everyone’s taste for a truly unforgettable snack!
Speaking of sweetness swirls... also try:

To make the lemon rolls, first melt the butter and let it cool slightly. Sift the flour into a bowl, then add the sugar and the grated lemon zest . In a separate small bowl, dissolve the yeast in a little milk taken from the total amount .
Pour the milk and yeast mixture into the remaining milk , then add the beaten egg and the slightly cooled melted butter .
Add the liquids to the dry ingredients and start mixing with a spoon . When the ingredients are well combined , transfer the mixture onto the work surface and knead for about 10 minutes .
You should obtain a smooth and elastic dough . At this point, place the dough back in the bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let it rise at room temperature for about 2 hours or until it doubles in volume. In the meantime, prepare the filling by mixing the sugar with the grated lemon zest in a bowl . Melt the butter and let it cool slightly.
After the rising time , roll out the dough on a lightly floured work surface to form a rectangle about 19x14 inches and brush it with the melted butter .
Distribute the sugar and lemon mixture evenly over the entire surface , then gently roll the rectangle from the longer side . Divide the resulting roll into 12 pieces, each about 1.5 inches wide .
Line a 12x8 inch baking pan with parchment paper and place the rolls inside, spacing them about 3/4 inch apart, then gently press them down with the palm of your hand . Cover the pan with plastic wrap and let rise at room temperature for about 30 minutes . After this time, bake the lemon rolls in a preheated static oven at 355°F for about 30 minutes , placing the pan on the middle rack.
In the meantime, prepare the glaze for the topping by placing the creamy cheese in a bowl along with the powdered sugar , lemon zest, and lemon juice . Mix until you get a smooth mixture , then let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
When the lemon rolls are golden brown on the surface, remove them from the oven and let them cool completely , then you can garnish them with the glaze . Sprinkle the surface with additional grated zest if desired, and your lemon rolls are ready to enjoy !
Lemon rolls can be stored at room temperature for about 2 days in an airtight container or a food bag.
You can freeze them without the glaze after cooking and cooling them completely.
Try replacing the lemon zest and juice with orange to make delicious orange rolls !

