name:
Turkey strips with cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Turkey breast: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Type 00 flour: 2.8oz(80 g)
Dry white wine: ¾cup(200 g)
Sage: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + marinating time (at least 1 h)

instructions:
The meat strips are an easy and quick main course from home cooking: chicken , veal or beef , they always appeal to both adults and children... just like the turkey strips with cherry tomatoes that we propose in this recipe! As in the more classic version, the turkey meat is floured and sautéed with white wine to obtain a delicious cream, but in this case, we have decided to further enrich it with cherry tomatoes and a fragrant mix of aromatic herbs. Simple and tasty, the turkey strips with cherry tomatoes are ideal for a family dinner or with friends!
Don't miss the Chicken Strips , an easy and quick variant, perfect for everyday menus.
To prepare the turkey strips with cherry tomatoes, first cut the meat into strips about 1/4 inch thick, removing any cartilage . Transfer the strips to a bowl and season with salt, pepper , and the mix of chopped herbs .
Drizzle with olive oil , mix well , cover with plastic wrap , and let marinate in the refrigerator for an hour (or even overnight).
Meanwhile, wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them into quarters . After the marinating time, flour the turkey strips and remove the excess flour .
Crush a clove of garlic with its skin and brown it in a pan with a drizzle of olive oil , then add the strips and cook over high heat for 5 minutes. When they are golden on the outside, add the cherry tomatoes and continue cooking for a couple of minutes.
At this point, deglaze with white wine and cook over medium-low heat for about ten minutes. Then raise the heat again, just long enough to thicken the sauce . The turkey strips with cherry tomatoes are ready to be served !
The turkey strips with cherry tomatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you wish, you can complete the dish with a handful of almonds or pistachios to add a crunchy note!

