name:
Rice salad with tataki salmon and arugula
ingredients:
Whole rice: 1cup(320 g)
Arugula: 2 ½cups(75 g)
Almond slices: ½cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Salmon fillets: 0.9lb(400 g)- (blast frozen)
Soy sauce: 3tbsp(50 g)
Black sesame seeds: 4 ½tbsp(40 g)
Flax seed: 4tbsp(40 g)
Sesame oil: to taste
Almond slices: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High
Note + the salmon freezing time (1 h)

instructions:
The rice salad with tataki salmon and arugula is a delightful idea to stay light during the summer! Not the usual rice salad , but a variant based on brown rice dressed with arugula and almond cream. Accompanying it is a classic of Japanese cuisine, tataki salmon: these are fish fillets marinated in soy sauce, coated in sesame seeds, and briefly seared in a pan. This way, the salmon remains raw inside, preserving all its flavor and quality. Serve the rice salad with tataki salmon and arugula as a single dish, perfect for a tasty and nutritious lunch at the same time!
To prepare the rice salad with tataki salmon and arugula, first cook the brown rice in boiling salted water for about 10-15 minutes . Meanwhile, marinate the salmon fillets in soy sauce for about 10 minutes . Once cooked, drain the rice and pour it into a bowl, then let it cool slightly .
Mix the sesame seeds and flax seeds in a baking dish, place the salmon fillets inside and coat them entirely . Transfer the breaded salmon fillets to the freezer for one hour .
Meanwhile, put 2 cups of arugula in a tall narrow container along with the olive oil and a pinch of salt , then blend with an immersion mixer to obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream .
Pour the arugula cream over the slightly cooled rice , mix well , and add the sliced almonds .
Add the remaining arugula by breaking it with your hands , then mix again and place the rice salad in the refrigerator until ready to serve . After the salmon has chilled, heat a little vegetable oil in a non-stick pan and place the fish fillets in it .
Sear the salmon on high heat for 2 minutes on each side , then cut it into slices about 0.4 inches thick using a sharp knife . At this point, distribute the rice salad on the serving plates .
Place the tataki salmon slices on the side and garnish with a drizzle of oil and almond flakes . Your rice salad with tataki salmon and arugula is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the rice salad with tataki salmon and arugula immediately.
For the coating of the tataki salmon, you can use only black sesame seeds.
The almonds can be substituted with pine nuts.

Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at 0°F in a home freezer marked with 3 or more stars, according to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

