name:
Vegetables in a pan
ingredients:
Eggplant: 0.9lb(400 g)
Red peppers: 3.3cups(300 g)
Yellow peppers: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
Zucchini: 2cups(200 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 2cups(300 g)
Fresh scallion: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
We always enjoy reading your comments where you ask us for easy and tasty side dishes. So we decided to offer you vegetables in a pan, a colorful and appetizing vegetable dice! This precious mix will easily pair with various meat or fish dishes and is also perfect for accompanying bread crostini with a mix of cured meats and cheeses. The preparation of vegetables in the pan is quite easy; however, there are a series of precautions regarding the cooking of vegetables that you cannot underestimate to ensure they are cooked and at the same time firm. We have told you everything there is to know about vegetables in a pan, only the preparation is left, so shall we start?
If you want more enticing vegetable-based side dishes, take a look here:
To prepare the vegetables in a pan, start by cleaning the spring onion: remove the ends and the first skin , then chop it quite finely . Move on to the vegetables, preferably keep all the vegetables cut to the same size and separate. Start with the eggplants, trim them and divide them .
Make incisions and remove part of the central pulp , then cut into strips .
Finally, obtain cubes no larger than about 3/4 inch . Do the same with the yellow peppers by removing the stem and then cutting them into pieces .
Do the same again for the red peppers and the zucchini . Lastly, divide the cherry tomatoes into quarters .
Move to the stove. Heat some oil in a saucepan and toss in the onions , letting them stew gently . Then add the eggplants and peppers, cooking for about 5 minutes .
Next, add the zucchini and after another 5 minutes, the cherry tomatoes . At this point, add salt, pepper, and another dash of oil .
Cook everything over medium heat for about 15 minutes, stirring occasionally . When cooked, turn off the heat, add a fragrance of hand-torn basil , and your vegetables in a pan are ready to be enjoyed hot, warm, or cold !
The vegetables in a pan can be stored in the fridge for a maximum of a couple of days; note that the texture will be lost.
The same goes for freezing; you can do it, but they will become waterlogged.
Add pre-cooked legumes such as chickpeas or cannellini beans, or even peas, which you can cook along with the rest of the vegetables.

