name:
Linguine with scampi, burrata, and asparagus
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 10.5oz(300 g)
Scampi: 10.5oz(300 g)- to clean
Asparagus: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Burrata cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Shallot: 1
Carrots: 1
Marjoram: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves- poached
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Lemon peel: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Linguine with scampi, burrata, and asparagus is a refined first course, a perfect balance between sea and land. The sweetness of the scampi perfectly pairs with the creaminess of the burrata, while the asparagus adds a fresh note that balances everything. The preparation involves making a scampi broth , a fundamental step to enhance the sea aroma and make the seasoning even more flavorful. It is a dish for special occasions, like an elegant dinner or a lunch where you want to bring something special and sophisticated to the table and surprise everyone with surprising flavors. To prepare linguine with scampi, burrata, and asparagus, technique and attention to detail are required, but by following the recipe step by step, you will surely achieve an impeccable result.
If you are looking for other first courses with scampi, don't miss out on:
To prepare linguine with scampi, burrata, and asparagus, first dedicate yourself to cleaning the scampi. Remove the heads of the crustaceans , use a toothpick to remove the intestine, then extract the flesh from the shell . Set aside the flesh and the heads and shells in two separate bowls. Cut the shallot into 4 pieces .
Peel the carrots then cut them in half and then into slices . Break off the woody part of the asparagus stalks with your hands and set aside the tender part. To prepare the scampi broth, pour oil into a pot, add shallots, carrots, crushed garlic in the skin, and asparagus stalks , stir and brown for a few minutes.
Add the marjoram and the scampi scraps , stir and toast for a few minutes. Cover with cold water .
Season with salt and white pepper and cook for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, cut the asparagus tips and blanch them in lightly salted water for 3 minutes . Drain and cool them in ice water to stop the cooking and maintain the color.
Slice the asparagus stalks into rounds and blanch them in the same water for 3 minutes . Drain and cool in ice water . Strain the scampi broth , return it to the heat, and reduce the volume by half over medium-low heat for about 20-30 minutes.
Put the asparagus stalks in a jug , add a ladle of scampi broth and a drizzle of oil .
Season with salt and white pepper and blend with an immersion blender until smooth, strain it through a fine-mesh sieve and set aside.
Finely chop the scampi flesh , place it in a small bowl, and add a drizzle of oil and grated lemon zest .
Adjust with salt and white pepper . Mix well and let marinate until ready to use. Cook the linguine in salted boiling water . Meanwhile, sauté the asparagus tips in a pan with oil and garlic .
Season with salt and white pepper . Add the scampi broth and let it infuse with flavor. When 2 minutes are left until the pasta is done, remove the garlic and drain the pasta. Transfer it to the pan and finish cooking.
Turn off the heat and toss with oil . On the bottom of the plate, place the asparagus cream, add the pasta on top, add burrata flakes , and the scampi tartare .
Finish with the asparagus tips and a sprinkle of lemon zest . Your linguine with scampi, burrata, and asparagus is ready to be enjoyed .
Linguine with scampi, burrata, and asparagus is a dish that should be enjoyed immediately to fully appreciate the creaminess and freshness of the ingredients. However, if any is left over, you can store it in the refrigerator in a closed container for up to 1 day.
For a touch of color and a more Mediterranean flavor, you can add confit cherry tomatoes or sautéed tomatoes, which pair well with the sweetness of the scampi. The scampi can be replaced with shrimp, following the same procedure for the broth and tartare.

