name:
Chicken with olives and peppers
ingredients:
Chicken legs: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Yellow peppers: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Red peppers: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Black olives: 1cup(120 g)
Salted capers: 3tsp(15 g)
Dry white wine: 2.7oz(80 ml)
Water: 2tbsp(30 ml)- warm
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Oregano: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Chicken and peppers is undoubtedly an irresistible combination! Enjoy it in its creamier version , in salad or simply in the pan, like our chicken with olives and peppers, an easy and tasty homemade dish. Tasty chicken thighs to brown in the pan and then stew with peppers, which during cooking will release all their aroma and fragrance, making the meat even more flavorful. A tantalizing touch of olives and capers will complete this exquisite main dish.
Come and discover other delicious recipes with chicken and peppers:
To prepare chicken with olives and peppers, wash and dry the peppers, then remove the cap to take out the stalk , cut them in half lengthwise, remove the seeds and white filaments with a sharp knife . Cut each half of the peppers into strips about 3/4 inch thick .
Desalt the capers by rinsing them under running water . Put a drizzle of oil in a large pan, add the peeled garlic cloves and let them heat over low flame, add the chicken thighs and on low flame let them brown on both sides by turning them with kitchen tongs (this will take about 8 minutes).
As soon as the chicken thighs are well browned , add the white wine and let it evaporate, remove the garlic. At this point, add the pepper strips and hot water.
Also add the olives and capers , cover with a lid and let it cook over low flame for 15 minutes.
Now adjust the salt, season with a pinch of pepper , cover with the lid and complete the cooking by occasionally shaking the pan, it will take about 30 minutes. At this point, remove the lid, slightly raise the flame, and cook another 5 minutes to thicken the sauce a bit and enhance the flavor, finish with marjoram leaves and fresh oregano . Serve the chicken with olives and peppers immediately .
You can store chicken with olives and peppers for a maximum of 2 days in the fridge. We do not recommend freezing.
Be careful not to add too much salt to the chicken as olives and capers will already provide a pronounced salty note!

