name:
Cassatine
ingredients:
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- already drained (1.1 kg to be drained)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Eggs: 12.7oz(360 g)- (5 medium)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Type 00 flour: 0.67cup(75 g)
Water: 1glass(250 g)
Sugar: ½cup(125 g)
Alchermes: 1.7oz(50 ml)- from Santa Maria Novella
Almond paste: 5.25oz(150 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Mixed candied fruit: 1cup(250 g)- (orange, citron, chinotto, mandarin)
Coffee beans: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus 1 night to drain the ricotta and resting times (18 hours)

instructions:
Today, we discover together with Chef Ciccio Sultano how to make delightful mini cassata cakes. A truly delicious Sicilian dessert that is inspired by the famous cake , but in a miniature version! As with most Sicilian sweets, such as cannoli , ricotta is the main ingredient. Therefore, we recommend choosing high-quality ricotta and letting it drain for a long time. Only with well-drained and flavorful ricotta will you achieve a result like ours. And if it's true that there's no rushing in the pastry world, this recipe proves it; resting times are crucial for perfect mini cassata cakes. Two other preparations are essential in these desserts: a soft sponge cake and a thin layer of homemade marzipan, made with a lower sugar ratio to avoid an overly sweet taste. Choose candied citrus fruits; though sweet, they will add a touch of acidity to the dish, making your mini cassata cakes perfect. Also, discover these variations:
To prepare the mini cassata cakes, first place the ricotta in a sieve set over a bowl . Place a plate and a weight on top . Let the ricotta drain overnight. Then weigh it and transfer it to a bowl. Pat it dry with a paper towel and add the sugar .
Mix well with a spoon and once you have a homogeneous mixture, transfer it to a blender. Blend well until you have a very smooth texture . Then transfer it to a pastry bag without a nozzle and place in the refrigerator.
Now prepare the sponge cake. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk, pour in the eggs and sugar . Start whipping with the electric beaters, then add the salt . Continue to whip and meanwhile sift the flour .
Don't rush, and only when the eggs are well whipped, add the flour and mix with the whisk for a few seconds . Finish mixing with a spatula, then transfer the mixture to a 12x16 inch pan lined with parchment paper .
Level the surface with a spatula and bake in a ventilated preheated oven at 320°F for 30 minutes on the lower-middle rack. Then remove from the oven and let cool. Meanwhile, prepare the syrup. Pour water and sugar into a small saucepan and bring to a boil.
When the sugar is completely dissolved, add the alkermes and mix. Then let cool . Once the sponge cake is cool, turn it over onto a cutting board and cut out discs using a cookie cutter about 3 inches in diameter .
Now transfer the sponge cake discs into ring molds of the same size, about 2 inches high . Soak them with the alkermes syrup and fill them with the ricotta cream . Cover with a sheet of plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 10 hours.
After this time, prepare the almond paste. Dust a surface with plenty of powdered sugar, place the almond paste on top, and add more powdered sugar . Roll out the paste using a rolling pin , until you reach a thickness of 1/12 inch, always adding more powdered sugar to prevent it from sticking to the surface .
Now place a sheet of parchment paper on a tray, add more powdered sugar and dust the almond paste again with powdered sugar. Cut it to obtain discs and transfer them to the tray . Store in the fridge?
Now prepare the candied fruit. Slice the orange and the citron . Then cut the tangerines into quarters without breaking the inside pulp
and do the same with the kumquats . Also, make small buttons with the orange. Arrange them all on a small tray and set aside until decorating. Transfer one of the mini cassata cakes to a plate, place an almond paste disc inside the ring mold ,
then remove the ring mold and decorate with candied fruit and coffee beans . Do the same for all the others. The mini cassata cakes are now ready to serve .
Mini cassata cakes can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
Marzipan discs can also be prepared a day in advance and stored in the fridge. The important thing is to place them between sheets of parchment paper with plenty of powdered sugar above and below. If you have leftover almond paste, you can use it to make almond milk or even a granita. Dissolving 13 oz in 1 quart of water will yield almond milk. Dissolving 21 oz in 1 quart of water will make a delicious granita. We recommend making homemade almond paste, this way you can make a less sweet one using equal parts almonds and sugar. To make homemade almond paste, you can put the almonds and sugar in a food processor. Add a few drops of water and pulse the mixer several times. Try not to overheat the mixture, otherwise, the oil released from the almonds could make it darker.
The ricotta used for making mini cassata cakes is cow ricotta from Ragusa. If you can't find it, a high-quality regular one will be fine, or even sheep ricotta for a richer flavor (you can also mix it half and half with cow ricotta).

