name:
Spaghettoni with Bell Pepper Cream and Salt Cod
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 10.6oz(300 g)
Red peppers: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Codfish: 0.7lb(300 g)- previously soaked and skinless
Lemon peel: 1
Bay leaves: 3leaves

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
From the union of the simplest ingredients, a gourmet dish can be born, like the dish by Caterina Ceraudo, 1 Michelin star with her restaurant "Dattilo" in Calabria: spaghettoni with bell pepper cream and salt cod. Just talking about it, you can feel all the creaminess and imagine the intense flavor of this dish with sincere and genuine ingredients, just like scarpariello , delicious and tasty, perfect for all occasions. The important thing is the choice of products first of all: never leave the choice of pasta to chance, in this case spaghetti, or rather spaghettoni! Furthermore, there are no better allies in the kitchen than the ingredients offered by the seasonal garden (or pantry), without adding too many other ingredients, extraordinary results can be achieved in terms of texture, taste, and aroma. In this pasta, for example, the bell peppers are simply grilled and then blended to obtain the sauce that will be used to dress the spaghetti. For this reason, it is good to choose very flavorful, organic, and perhaps locally sourced bell peppers. Besides the bell pepper cream , another protagonist of the dish is certainly the salt cod: chef Ceraudo advises us to cook it for just a few minutes, precisely to not alter its taste and achieve unique tenderness. For those who would like to try, she also proposes not cooking it at all and using it as if it were tartare! Try the spaghettoni with bell pepper cream and salt cod yourselves, an easy and quick-to-make first course but excellent in its simplicity! Feel like a chef for a day by following all our suggestions and don't miss these tasty variations on the theme:

To prepare the spaghettoni with bell pepper cream and salt cod, first, wash the bell peppers well and dry them. Heat a grill on the stove, then place the bell peppers on top . Cook them for about 40 minutes, turning them often, so they don't burn. When they are cooked, transfer them to a bowl .
Peel them and remove the internal seeds. Gradually transfer them into a long, narrow container . Now blend them with an immersion blender .
Once you obtain a homogeneous cream, adjust the salt and set aside. Now move on to the salt cod, cut it into cubes and transfer it into a bowl. Add some chili powder .
Add a drizzle of oil and the grated zest of one lemon . Mix well to combine all the flavors .
Heat a dash of oil in a pan, add the garlic and the torn bay leaves. Let it heat up and add the salt cod .
Cook very briefly, then remove the garlic and transfer to a bowl . Cook the spaghettoni in plenty of boiling, salted water to taste .
Pour the bell pepper cream into the pan and heat it. Drain the spaghettoni al dente and transfer them to the pan , keeping aside a bit of cooking water to add immediately after .
Finish cooking the spaghettoni in the pan, also adding the oil from the salt cod . Now form a nest of spaghettoni, transfer it to a plate. Add the salt cod cubes on top and a bit of grated lemon zest . The spaghettoni with bell pepper cream and salt cod are ready to serve .
We recommend consuming the spaghettoni with peppers and salt cod immediately. The bell pepper cream can be stored for a day in the refrigerator.
If you prefer, you can skip the cooking step for the salt cod and use it raw as if it were tartare.

