name:
Potato Cavatelli with Cherry Tomatoes and Ricotta
ingredients:
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Potatoes: 3.5oz(100 g)
Water: 0.3cup(70 g)- (at room temperature)
Datterino tomatoes: 1.25lbs(600 g)
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: to taste- (smoked)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: to taste- fresh
Oregano: to taste- fresh
Dried chili pepper: to taste
Lemon peel: to taste- to grate
Water: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Potato Cavatelli are a soft variant of the classic cavatelli , a type of semolina pasta often paired with sausage, broccoli rabe or Cavatelli with zucchini flowers, mussels, and saffron . Chef Caterina Ceraudo offers us an even simpler, incredibly tasty sauce: potato cavatelli with cherry tomatoes and ricotta! A main dish that brings the taste of summer thanks to a fresh tomato sauce scented with lemon zest and aromatic herbs, finished with a generous grating of smoked ricotta. Just a few genuine ingredients and a lot of passion for an extraordinary result… this is the secret of potato cavatelli with cherry tomatoes and ricotta!
To make the potato cavatelli with cherry tomatoes and ricotta, first boil the potatoes for preparing the cavatelli ; it will take 30-40 minutes depending on their size, until you can easily pierce them with a fork. Meanwhile, focus on the sauce: wash and dry the cherry tomatoes, then with the tip of a small knife, score the skin at one end . Bring a pot of water to a boil and blanch the cherry tomatoes for about 30 seconds .
Drain the cherry tomatoes and immerse them in a bowl with ice water , then remove the outer skin . In a pan, briefly sauté the garlic in the oil, then add the whole peeled cherry tomatoes .
Add salt and chili pepper and cook on high heat for 20 minutes, adding a little water as needed and mashing the larger tomatoes with a spoon .
When the potatoes are cooked, mix the semolina and flour in a bowl , then add the mashed potatoes (the skin will remain inside the potato masher) and the water .
Begin kneading with your hands , then transfer to a work surface and continue to work until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough. Divide the dough into smaller portions with the help of a dough cutter and roll them out with your fingertips on a lightly floured surface to form ropes about 3/8 inch thick .
Cut the ropes into pieces no longer than 3/4 inch . With your thumb, press each piece of dough from the cut side and drag it on the work surface from bottom to top to create the typical concave shape . As they are ready, arrange the cavatelli on a lightly floured cloth .
Meanwhile, put a pot of water on the stove, salt it when it boils, and cook the cavatelli . When they float to the surface, drain the cavatelli into the pan with the sauce and season with fresh oregano .
Add fresh thyme and grated lemon zest , then mix well and toss everything over the heat for a few moments .
You are ready to plate: distribute the cavatelli with the sauce on the plates , then finish with an abundant grating of smoked ricotta . Your potato cavatelli with cherry tomatoes and ricotta are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the potato cavatelli with cherry tomatoes and ricotta immediately. Alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator for up to one day.
If you wish to prepare the cavatelli in advance, you can choose to dry or freeze them: in the first case, leave them overnight on a floured cloth, spacing them apart; the time can vary depending on the humidity in the room. You can store them for a month in a jar or a bag.
If you choose to freeze them, arrange the cavatelli on a tray and place them in the freezer for about half an hour before transferring them to a bag to prevent sticking; this way, they won't stick together.
Unlike fresh cavatelli that can be drained as soon as they float to the surface, dried or frozen cavatelli will need a few more minutes of cooking!

