name:
Mini calzones with tomino cheese and spinach
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)- at room temperature
Brewer's yeast: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Sugar: 0.6tsp(3 g)
Salt: 1 ¼tsp(7 g)
Tomini cheese: 3- (90 g each)
Spinach: 16 ½cups(500 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 5 pieces
Note + the rising time (about 14 hours between room temperature and fridge)

instructions:
The mini calzones with tomino cheese and spinach are crispy half-moons inspired by the typical Pugliese calzones , reimagined in a delicious version. Golden and crunchy on the outside, melty on the inside, these exquisite street foods have a special filling that is different from the usual mozzarella and tomato combination that characterizes the stuffed calzone . Our choice for stuffing is the most meltable of cheeses, tomino. We paired it with spinach, which with its distinct taste will excellently balance the flavors. Once they are well golden and fried, serve them immediately to enjoy them hot and fully savor these captivating homemade appetizers!
To make the fried mini calzones with tomino and spinach, pour the flour and the instant yeast into a bowl . Add the sugar and quickly mix with your hands while slowly pouring the water . Knead so that the powders absorb all the liquid.
Add the salt last , knead one last time to incorporate it , then form a dough ball .
Cover with plastic wrap and make a few holes to let the dough 'breathe' . Let the dough rise at room temperature for 2 hours, then transfer it to the refrigerator for 12 hours. Meanwhile, cook the spinach. Pour a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil in a large pot, add the garlic clove and sauté for a couple of minutes. Also, add the well-washed spinach into the pot.
Cook for about 5 minutes until they're soft and well cooked. Remove the garlic, drain the spinach, and let them cool. Squeeze the spinach well in a colander . Place the spinach in the refrigerator. Retrieve the matured dough and let it sit at room temperature for 1 hour.
Divide the dough into 5 parts of 5.3 oz each . Roll out the dough with the help of a rolling pin to create a disk about 6 inches in diameter .
Cut the tomino in half . Stuff the disk with spinach and ½ tomino .
Cover with another layer of spinach . Fold over into a half-moon and seal the edges well by rolling the edges of the dough .
Fry the mini calzones in plenty of vegetable oil at 320°F for about 5 minutes each or until golden. Drain and place on absorbent paper. Salt with flaky salt and serve the mini calzones with tomino and spinach piping hot!
It is recommended to consume the fried mini calzones immediately. If preferred, you can store them in the fridge for a maximum of a couple of days.
Flaky salt gives a light and pleasant crunchy note. If you can't find it, you can replace it with regular table salt. To vary the filling, you can choose from the most appetizing ingredients: tomato, mozzarella, olives, zucchini, or other seasonal vegetables!

