name:
Stuffed tomatoes with rice, potatoes, and mussels
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: ½cup(100 g)
Mussels: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Potatoes: 3.5oz(100 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 8- very firm
White onions: ½
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parsley: to taste- to chop
Vegetable broth: ¾cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The stuffed tomatoes with rice, potatoes, and mussels is a Mediterranean recipe that emerges from the union of two traditional preparations to create a uniquely flavorful dish: stuffed tomatoes and the classic tiella barese . It is indeed a very tasty first course made with round tomatoes that are hollowed out and stuffed with Bari-style Tiella: easy baked rice, potatoes, and mussels , the typical ingredients of the tiella. Prepare them especially in the summer when tomatoes are in season and choose firm ones for a perfect result. By following our recipe, you will get a genuine and tasty dish that is also visually impressive: serve the stuffed tomatoes with rice, potatoes, and mussels covered with the tops like cute decorative hats, and you will make a great impression! Discover other variations to prepare stuffed tomatoes:
To prepare stuffed tomatoes with rice, potatoes, and mussels, first make the vegetable broth , without salting it. Then, clean the mussels. Rinse the mussels under running water . Using the back of a knife, remove all the white incrustations on the shell and manually remove the beard, or byssus, protruding from the valves .
Still under fresh running water and using a steel wool pad (or a stiff brush), scrub the mussels vigorously to remove any impurities . Heat a drizzle of oil in a large pan with a whole clove of garlic , then add the mussels .
Cover with a lid and cook over low heat to open them, it will take about 5 minutes. Once the shells are open, turn off the heat and let them cool. Set the mussels aside and prepare the tomatoes: choose round tomatoes, wash them, then cut off the tops, which you will save for garnish .
Hollow out the inside using a spoon and collect the pulp in a bowl . Salt the inside of the tomatoes and place them upside down on a rack . Let them drain.
Meanwhile, wash the potatoes, peel them, and cut them first into slices and then into very small cubes . To prevent them from browning, keep them in a bowl filled with cold water .
Now clean the mussels by extracting the flesh from the shell . Then filter the cooking liquid and set it aside. Finely chop half an onion .
Pour the tomato pulp into a blender and blend it. Put the onion in a pan with a drizzle of oil and let it soften over low heat .
Add the tomato pulp and then the rice . Stir and wait a few minutes. Pour in the mussels' cooking water , which is quite salty and will season the risotto.
Add the potatoes and continue cooking for about 20 minutes, gradually incorporating the vegetable broth , until the rice is cooked .
At this point add the mussels and stir. Taste and adjust for salt if necessary, then turn off the heat. Arrange the hollowed-out tomatoes in a baking dish, side by side, so they can support each other . Fill the tomatoes with the risotto .
Drizzle with extra virgin olive oil and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 30 minutes. Then remove the baking dish from the oven, place the tops on the tomatoes , and continue cooking for another 5 minutes in grill mode. Remove from the oven one last time and serve your stuffed tomatoes with rice and mussels .
Stuffed tomatoes with rice, potatoes, and mussels can be stored for one day in the refrigerator, covered. Before serving, heat them in the oven for a few minutes!
If you want a spicy note, simply add some fresh chili to the mussels. Alternatively to tomatoes, you can use zucchini, bell peppers, or eggplants as long as they have a round shape.

