name:
Kefir
ingredients:
Kefir grains: 1.5oz(40 g)- (milk)
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)- (at room temperature)
Kefir grains: 3.5oz(100 g)- (of water)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)- (mineral, at room temperature)
Dates: 2
Lemons: 1slice
Brown sugar: ¼cup(40 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 5 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note more than 24 hours of fermentation

instructions:
The kefir is a nutritious drink similar to yogurt but more liquid. You can make kefir at home in two ways, as we will show you, starting from milk, chlorine-free water (mineral), or other plant-based drinks. To make this recipe, you will need to get some kefir grains; the best thing would be to ask a friend who already makes it at home, otherwise you can easily buy them. Water kefir, unlike milk kefir, has a sparkling, refreshing, and slightly alcoholic flavor. Generally, there are four values that can influence the taste of the final product: the time and temperature of fermentation, the added ingredients, and the quantity of grains used. Of course, there is no general rule; we propose the versions that convinced us the most, but you can customize them according to your tastes. Besides drinking kefir, you can use it for many recipes in the kitchen! Discover also:
To prepare milk kefir, open the sachet and strain the grains with a plastic sieve. Pour the room temperature milk into a jug and add the grains .
Stir with a wooden spoon and cover with a kitchen cloth. Secure the cloth to the jug with a rubber band so it doesn't move, and let it ferment at a temperature of 64-86°F, in a place not exposed to sunlight. You can store the kefir in an oven with just the light on. The time can vary depending on the temperature: the higher it is, the less time it will take for the kefir to ferment. After 18 hours, you can check the consistency, and depending on the temperature, it might already be ready (if the temperature has been kept constant). After this time, filter the mixture into a bowl to separate the grains .
Stir the mixture well with a spoon ; don't throw away the grains, but reuse them to prepare more kefir following the same procedure. It won't be necessary to wash them, but if you prefer, you can do so once a week with cold water. Then transfer your milk kefir into a jug , cover it and let it chill in the refrigerator for a couple of hours before enjoying .
For water kefir, pour room temperature water into a bowl. Add the brown sugar and salt . Stir with a rubber whisk until completely dissolved .
Add the water kefir grains , the lemon slice, and the dates . Transfer to a carafe .
Cover with a kitchen cloth secured with a rubber band . Let it ferment at a temperature of 64-86°F for 24 hours away from sunlight. The time greatly depends on the temperature; the higher it is, the faster it will ferment. Taste the fermented water until you find the fermentation point you like best. After the fermentation time, filter the mixture . The fruit can be eaten, while the grains you have filtered can be used to prepare your water kefir again. The water kefir is ready to serve .
• What kinds of milk can be used?
Instead of cow's milk, you can also use sheep or goat milk. You can also use semi-skimmed milk, but you will get a less creamy drink and the fermentation times may be longer.
• Is it possible to use plant-based milk? It is possible, but the result will not be the same. You will get a more liquid kefir with a different taste. Also, after several uses, the culture might die, so for every 3 fermentations in plant-based milk, it is necessary to let the kefir grains ferment in cow's milk for 24 hours.
• Does milk kefir contain alcohol?
Containing yeasts, it may contain very small traces of alcohol, especially with two-day fermentations.
• What to do if the kefir releases a lot of whey or is too sour? The reasons could be different. Either the fermentation time is too long, the temperature is too high, or the amount of milk used is too little.
• Is it possible to use granulated sugar for water kefir?
It's preferable to use brown sugar, but you will also get a good result with granulated sugar.
• Is it possible to use stevia for water kefir?
Unfortunately, it is not possible; kefir needs glucose, which we provide with sugar.
• Does water kefir contain alcohol?
It can have an alcohol content between 0.5% and 1%.
• What can I use instead of water?
You can use infusions or plant-based drinks, keeping in mind that the result might not be the same.
• What type of water should be used?
For making water kefir, it is good to use water with low chlorine content. You can use bottled water, as long as it is not low in minerals. Otherwise, you can leave tap water in a carafe for a couple of hours before using it.
Do we need to use salt? Yes, because it provides minerals to the culture that the used water cannot contain.
• What can be used instead of dates? You can use raisins, dried apricots, or dried figs.
Kefir (both milk and water) can be stored in the refrigerator covered well for a week. Keep in mind that the level of acidity will continue to increase in the following days. Kefir grains can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 15 days. It would be preferable to renew them every 7 days at most, otherwise the cultures could go dormant and take some days to become active as before.
The only way to store kefir grains longer is to freeze or dehydrate them, but it is not guaranteed that all microorganisms will survive.
For preparation, do not use metal utensils: kefir is an acidic food that could absorb some substances contained in metals. The advice is therefore to use a glass bowl, a plastic colander, and a wooden spoon. If you prepare both milk kefir and water kefir at the same time, pay close attention to cross-contamination. Do not use the same tools or disinfect them well to avoid cross-contamination that would damage the quality of the cultures.
The best temperature is between 68-77°F. If the temperature is very high, the kefir will ferment quickly; on the contrary, with a low temperature, it will ferment slowly. The kefir grains will increase over time, so at some point, you can give them to your friends!

