name:
Cheesecake without gelatin with sour cherries and coconut
ingredients:
Cookies: 5.6oz(160 g)
Butter: 2.8oz(80 g)
Sweetened vegetable cream: ¾cup(200 g)
Cream cheese: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Powdered sugar: ½cup(60 g)
Shredded coconut: 1cup(80 g)
Black cherried in syrup: 0.625cup(150 g)
Coconut: to taste- flakes
Black cherried in syrup: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + resting times in the fridge

instructions:
A crunchy base of dry biscuits topped with a fresh cheese cream, some fruit to decorate and here is the cheesecake! This time, however, we present an even easier and quicker variant that does not require Cheesecake without gelatin and with a surprisingly delicious combination: cheesecake without gelatin cherries and coconut, a blend of fruity flavors with an enticing exotic touch. From today, it will be even harder to choose among our delicious cheesecake recipes:
To make the coconut and sour cherry cheesecake, pour the cookies into the mixer and grind them into a powder . Add the melted butter .
Mix with a spatula to combine them . Line a 20 cm (8-inch) springform pan with parchment paper . Pour the butter and biscuit mixture .
Level well with a spatula and then compact the surface with the back of a spoon to obtain a smooth and even layer . Let the base set in the freezer for 30 minutes. Prepare the cream: pour the cream into a bowl , whip it with an electric mixer .
Add the spreadable cheese and mix with the beaters. Add the powdered sugar and work the cream. Add the shredded coconut and mix with a spatula.
Finally, also add the drained sour cherries . Mix one last time , pour the cream over the biscuit base .
Level well with a spatula . Let it set in the refrigerator for at least 6 hours. Garnish with syruped sour cherries and coconut flakes. The cheesecake without gelatin with sour cherries and coconut is ready to be served .
The coconut and sour cherry cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. You can freeze it and then thaw it in the refrigerator before consuming.
Be careful not to confuse shredded coconut with coconut flour, as they are two different products with different consistencies.

