name:
Gluten-free piadina
ingredients:
Gluten free flour mix: 3 ½cups(400 g)- (universal mix)
Water: 0.8cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¼tsp(7 g)
Baking soda: 0.7tsp(3 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + 20 minutes of dough resting

instructions:
The Romagna flatbread is an institution: sweet, Piadina without lard or with Buckwheat flatbread with chicken strips and baked chips , we have flatbreads for all tastes. Let's add the gluten-free flatbread to the cookbook, made with a mix of gluten-free flours that will guarantee you the same delicious result, ready to fill as you like best: speck and scamorza, Flatbread with ham and scamorza cheese , brie and prosciutto or cherry tomatoes and mozzarella! Making the dough is very simple, the gluten-free flatbread is also perfect for enriching the bread basket, always gluten-free of course!
Come discover other Italian and non-Italian street foods
To prepare your flatbread, start by mixing the gluten-free mix, salt , and baking soda in a bowl. Use a spoon to make a small well in the center and pour in all the water .
Also pour in the oil and initially mix everything with the spoon , so that the liquids are absorbed .
Transfer the mixture to the counter and continue kneading it with your hands for a few minutes until it becomes smooth and homogeneous . Let the dough rest in the refrigerator for 20 minutes wrapped in plastic wrap .
After the necessary time, take the dough out of the refrigerator and place it on a lightly floured surface. Cut the dough into 4 parts using a dough scraper and roll out one part with a rolling pin to a thickness of 1/16 inch . Now cut your dough with a 7.9-inch diameter pastry cutter to obtain a disc.
The flatbread is ready for cooking . Put a non-stick pan on medium heat and let it warm up for a few minutes. Now place your flatbread on the pan and cook it, continuing to rotate it with your hand so that no bubbles form. When it is cooked on one side (it will take a few minutes), you can flip it and do the same procedure .
Once cooked, transfer the flatbread to a plate . Continue this way with the rest of the dough pieces. Knead the leftover scraps to make two more flatbreads. Once all the gluten-free flatbreads are cooked you can fill them as you like!
The gluten-free flatbreads can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for 2-3 days.
They can be frozen once cooked and allowed to cool.
If you don't have a 7.9-inch diameter pastry cutter, you can use a bowl or plate of the same diameter to outline the shape.

