name:
Cuttlefish Salad
ingredients:
Octopi: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (already cleaned)
Celery: 2 ¼cups(220 g)
Radishes: 0.5lb(200 g)
Carrots: 2cups(200 g)
Lemon juice: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
It's time for seafood salads , fresh and tasty but also light and wholesome, like cuttlefish salad! These tender mollusks with their delicate flavor and soft flesh go well with everything! After experimenting with the most appetizing and refined recipes with baby cuttlefish, we thought of enjoying them in the simplest way: boiled just long enough to soften them and accompanied by crunchy vegetables. All drizzled with a tantalizing citronette that will give a pleasant citrus note!
Come discover many more appetizing seafood recipes:
This salad is perfect for the holiday menu, discover here other 30-minute recipes for Christmas.

To prepare the cuttlefish salad, bring water to a boil in a large pot. Then lower the heat and add the already cleaned cuttlefish . Cook over medium-high heat for 15 minutes: cooking time depends on the size of the cuttlefish. Drain the cuttlefish and let them cool in a bowl , cover with plastic wrap or a plate.
Meanwhile, wash the vegetables. Peel the carrots and cut them into strips about 1/4 inch thick and 2 inches long . Finely chop the celery with its leaves to roughly the same size and set aside . Thinly slice the radishes .
Also cut the cuttlefish into strips about 1/2 inch wide . Place everything in a bowl .
Squeeze the lemon juice , combine it with the oil and mix to create a fluid and well-blended citronette .
Pour the dressing over the cuttlefish salad, season with salt and pepper to taste , mix, and serve immediately!
The cuttlefish salad keeps for one day in the refrigerator, freezing is not recommended.
We used already cleaned cuttlefish, but if you have whole cuttlefish, you can follow our guide " How to clean cuttlefish " for cleaning the mollusks.
If you want to add an extra aromatic touch, enrich the cuttlefish salad with some fresh parsley or thyme.

