name:
Soft Coconut and Lime Cake
ingredients:
Shredded coconut: 2 ½cups(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Lime: 2
Coconut oil: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: 2cups(150 g)- (soft)
Brown sugar: 0.8cup(180 g)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (1 whole)
Egg yolks: 3
Baking powder: 3 ¼tsp(16 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
We can never get enough of homemade cakes, and we're always on the lookout for new delicious combinations for our delightful snacks! Today we offer you exotic notes with the soft coconut and lime cake. It's a soft and captivating dessert, made with part butter and coconut oil in the batter to further accentuate the aromatic note. Perfect to enjoy at breakfast or snack time, perhaps accompanied by fresh fruit juice, or to serve as a dessert with a scoop of ice cream. If you enjoyed our Coconut cake , you'll love this tempting variation!
Here are more delicious coconut ideas:
To prepare the soft coconut and lime cake, pour the softened butter , sugar, and lime zest into a large bowl. Work with electric mixers .
Add the whole egg and work for a few seconds. Then add the yolks and work until fully absorbed. Incorporate the coconut oil in a thin stream left at room temperature, so it will be fluid and more practical to pour.
Now add the all-purpose flour , shredded coconut, and baking powder to the mixture. Once you have obtained a homogeneous and soft mixture, pour in the juice of two limes .
Work the batter for a few more seconds . Line a 21 cm (8-inch) mold with parchment paper, pour in the batter . Level it with the back of a spoon . Transfer the mixture to a 21 cm (8-inch) mold lined with parchment paper. Gently level the surface with a spoon, decorate with a little shredded coconut, and bake at 300°F for 45 minutes. Remove from the oven, let it cool slightly. Unmold.
Decorate with a little shredded coconut and bake in a preheated static oven at 300°F for 45 minutes. Remove from the oven, let it cool slightly, then unmold and enjoy the soft coconut and lime cake .
The coconut cake can be stored out of the refrigerator for 3-4 days, covered with a glass dome. After baking, it can be frozen.
For an even more delicious cake, add chocolate chips before transferring the mixture to the mold.
Coconut oil helps make the dessert more aromatic. You can replace the 100 g of coconut oil with thick coconut milk.
Butter cannot be replaced in this recipe.
Use ingredients at room temperature for optimal results.
In the summer, just leave the coconut oil at room temperature to make it more fluid; in colder periods, it can be slightly warmed.

