name:
Couscous with watermelon, feta, and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Couscous: 1 ¾cup(320 g)
Watermelon: 1cup(150 g)- pulp
Datterino tomatoes: 10.6oz(300 g)- red, green, and yellow
Feta cheese: 1.1cups(250 g)
Oregano: to taste- dry
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Watermelon: to taste- pulp

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Couscous is perfect for summer because it can be prepared quickly and enjoyed at room temperature! We decided to make it even more enticing with a really delightful recipe: couscous with watermelon, feta, and cherry tomatoes. A dish that whets the appetite just by looking at it, thanks to the vibrant colors of the colorful cherry tomatoes and watermelon! Ideal for vegetarians or for those who simply prefer to eat light when the temperatures become sweltering, couscous with watermelon, feta, and cherry tomatoes will bring a fresh breath of novelty to your table.
Try other tantalizing watermelon recipes:

To make couscous with watermelon, feta, and cherry tomatoes, first bring a pot of water almost to a boil to prepare the couscous. Place the couscous in a bowl, season with a drizzle of oil and salt , then cover with boiling water . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rest for 5 minutes.
Meanwhile, prepare the other ingredients: remove the watermelon rind and cut 150 g (5.3 oz) of pulp first into slices and then into half-inch cubes . Cut the feta into cubes of the same size . Finally, divide the cherry tomatoes into 4 wedges .
At this point, the couscous will be ready, so add another drizzle of oil and fluff it with a fork , then adjust the salt. In a bowl, combine the cherry tomatoes, watermelon , and feta .
Season with oil, salt, pepper , and oregano , then mix to blend everything together . Make thin shavings from the remaining watermelon.
Now that everything is ready, plate the couscous using a pastry ring , then remove the ring and add the salad of tomatoes, watermelon, and feta on top. Finally, garnish with the watermelon shavings . Your couscous with watermelon, feta, and cherry tomatoes is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the couscous with watermelon, feta, and cherry tomatoes immediately. If you prefer, you can prepare the couscous in advance without seasoning it and store it in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap.
If you do not like the strong taste of feta, you can substitute it with quartirolo cheese or primo sale.

