name:
Tataki Tuna and Watermelon Skewers
ingredients:
Watermelon: 0.8lb(350 g)
Tuna: 7oz(200 g)
Black sesame seeds: 4 ½tbsp(40 g)
Sesame seeds: 1.5oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Soy sauce: 2tbsp(30 g)
Teriyaki sauce: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 4 pieces

instructions:
Do you enjoy playing with fruit in the kitchen? If the answer is yes, don't miss the recipe for tataki tuna and watermelon skewers! An original appetizer that combines the refined taste of fresh fish with the crunchy sweetness of watermelon and the aroma of sesame seeds. To make this composition truly perfect, all that's missing is a sauce, specifically a reduction of soy sauce and teriyaki sauce that adds the right savoriness and a pleasant sweet and sour note. Ready to impress? Your guests will love the tataki tuna and watermelon skewers!
Also try these tasty savory recipes with watermelon:
To make the tataki tuna and watermelon skewers, first cut the watermelon into slices about 1.2 inches thick , then remove the rind and cut into 8 cubes . Do the same with the tuna to obtain 8 cubes of the same size .
Skewer a watermelon cube with a wooden skewer, then add a tuna cube and another watermelon cube . Assemble the other 3 skewers in the same way, always alternating 2 watermelon cubes and one tuna cube in the center. Cover the skewers with the mix of black and white sesame seeds.
At this point, heat a pan well with a drizzle of oil and briefly sear the skewers over very high heat on all sides, for up to 5 minutes . Set aside the seared skewers and season with a pinch of salt. In the same pan, pour the soy sauce and teriyaki sauce . Reduce the sauce over low heat for a few minutes, just until it thickens slightly .
Distribute a tablespoon of sauce on the plate and place the skewers on top . Your tataki tuna and watermelon skewers are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the tataki tuna and watermelon skewers immediately. If you prefer, you can prepare them in advance and sear them when ready to serve.
If you prefer, you can replace the sesame seeds with poppy seeds.

