name:
Summer Watermelon Tabbouleh
ingredients:
Bulgur: 2 ¼cups(320 g)
Watermelon: 1cup(200 g)
Spring onions: 2
Cluster tomatoes: 5
Pine nuts: 3 ½tbsp(30 g)
Parsley: 0.5oz(15 g)
Mint: 0.7oz(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Rich in fiber and minerals, already the star of numerous recipes, bulgur is the star of today's summer watermelon tabbouleh recipe. Bulgur, also known as cracked wheat and not to be confused with couscous, is perfect for creative summer salads that we all crave during the hottest time of the year: light lunches, fresh dinners, ingredients that make us feel good. In short, many good reasons! And embracing this good philosophy, we decided to add color, flavor, and zest to our salad with a fresh dice of watermelon. Its fragrance and the very light sweet note will perfectly complement the other ingredients. You'll see that with the summer watermelon tabbouleh, you will not only bring a light and tasty dish to the table, but you'll also learn to enjoy this particular cereal!
Discover other delicious recipes with bulgur:
To prepare the summer watermelon tabbouleh, start by cooking the bulgur by pouring it into a pot of boiling salted water . Cook for the time indicated on the package and then drain it , allowing it to cool .
Meanwhile, take care of the rest: clean the spring onion by removing the base and leaving a bit of the green top . Finally, slice thinly .
Move on to the tomatoes, first cut them in half and then into quarters, removing the pulp . Finally, cut into pieces about 1.5 cm (about ½ inch) .
Lastly, slice the watermelon to a thickness of 1.5 cm (about ½ inch) , cut into wedges, and remove the rind . Finally, cut into cubes, again about 1.5 cm (about ½ inch) .
In the blender cup, pour the parsley and mint leaves , add the oil and blend until you get a smooth sauce .
The bulgur should be cold by now; season it with the herb sauce , add the tomatoes , the spring onion, and the watermelon cubes .
Gently mix everything together and finally garnish with pepper and pine nuts . Here is your summer watermelon tabbouleh ready .
The summer watermelon tabbouleh can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days at most.
Along with the pine nuts, or in their place, try using almonds, peanuts, or cashews.
Instead of spring onion, you can use white onion.
Finally, if you like, add some mozzarella pearls.

