name:
Chicken and Watermelon Salad
ingredients:
Chicken: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- roasted
Watermelon: 3.3cups(500 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)
Hazelnuts: ½cup(60 g)
Lemons: 1
Mixed salad: 1 ¼cup(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Summer, fresh, and light, the chicken and watermelon salad is the second course perfect for you during the hot season when you're looking for tasty dishes. The idea came to us because sometimes you have leftover rotisserie chicken and how to make it unique and special? By adding many fresh and colorful pieces of the queen of summer: watermelon! Its crispy texture and delicately sweet flavor will give precious notes of sweetness to this quick second course. You can enjoy it at home with your loved ones or bring it as a packed lunch for the office or park: summer has a completely different taste thanks to the chicken and watermelon salad!
Other delicious chicken salads? We have just what you need:

To prepare the chicken and watermelon salad, start with the latter. After slicing it into wedges of 3/4 inch , cut into slices and remove the rind .
Cut into 3/4 inch triangles and place in a bowl . Take care of the rotisserie chicken, remove the larger pieces .
From these, create shreds that are not too thin , collecting them in a bowl as you go. Finally, prepare the accompaniment. Peel the lemon: just remove the peel with a knife to also remove the white part .
Then cut the flesh into chunks . Create flakes from the piece of cheese using a potato peeler or knife. Then coarsely chop the hazelnuts .
Now move on to the composition. In a bowl, add the shredded chicken, hazelnuts , lemon , and watermelon .
The cheese flakes , the thyme leaves , and oil .
Finally, adjust with salt and pepper , mix , and your chicken and watermelon salad is ready to be served .
It's recommended to consume the chicken and watermelon salad immediately.
Add mozzarella balls to enrich the salad.

