name:
Raw ham and fig pancake
ingredients:
Purple figs: 1.6oz(45 g)- (the pulp)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Eggs: 2.6oz(75 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(65 g)
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)- melted
Sugar: 1.67tsp(7 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(4 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Prosciutto crudo: 2.1oz(60 g)
Purple figs: 2
Cream cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Chestnut honey: 2tsp
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 12 min
Makes: 4 pieces

instructions:
What could be better than waking up on a Sunday morning to the inviting smell of pancakes wafting through the house? Our special raw ham and fig pancakes are made with a soft, fragrant batter enriched with the sweet pulp of figs. The soft and tasty slices of prosciutto will harmoniously balance the flavors. Completing the texture balance are quenelles of cheese cream, flavored with chestnut honey that envelops the palate with its typical robust and slightly bitter notes. A handful of fresh fig wedges will add natural and genuine sweetness. Each bite of these savory pancakes is a burst of flavor, a perfect harmony between sweet and savory. The raw ham and fig pancakes are perfect to serve for a brunch, as an alternative to the typical Italian breakfast or as an original and tasty appetizer!
To prepare the raw ham and fig pancakes, first melt the butter and let it cool slightly. Meanwhile, peel a fig , obtain 45 grams of pulp, and place it in a jug , then pour in the milk .
Blend everything with an immersion blender until you get a smooth cream . In a bowl, combine the eggs and sugar .
Add a pinch of salt and mix with a whisk. Add the milk and fig mixture and mix to incorporate it. At this point, pour in the cooled melted butter .
Mix again with the whisk to get a homogeneous mixture , then add the sifted dry ingredients little by little through a sieve: the flour and the baking powder .
Mix one last time to get a smooth batter without lumps. Heat a non-stick pan and let a small piece of butter melt , remove the excess butter with a paper towel, then pour a ladle of batter .
Wait for it to spread by itself , so it takes on the typical flat shape, and cook over medium heat until the pancakes form bubbles on the surface. Flip them with a spatula and continue cooking on the other side until they are golden brown. Each pancake will cook in 3-4 minutes. As the pancakes are ready, transfer them to a tray and let them cool slightly. Prepare the filling: in a bowl, place the cream cheese and chestnut honey .
Mix well to flavor and set aside. Now take the figs reserved for garnish, cut them into wedges , place them in a bowl, and season with a drizzle of oil and a pinch of salt , then mix well.
Everything is ready to assemble the dish: place on each pancake slices of raw ham (about 15 g for each pancake) , 2 fig wedges, and a quenelle of cheese cream . Finish by scenting with fresh thyme leaves. Serve your delicious raw ham and fig pancakes right away !
It is recommended to consume the raw ham and fig pancakes immediately.
The pancake batter can be prepared a few hours in advance or frozen.
The pancakes can be cooked in advance and stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.

For even fluffier pancakes, you can separate the yolks from the whites, beat the latter to stiff peaks, and incorporate them into the batter as the last ingredient with an upward motion.

