name:
Spaghetti with tomato, anchovies, and pecorino
ingredients:
Gluten-free Spaghetti pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Anchovies: 0.75lb(350 g)- fresh (to be cleaned)
Canned cherry tomatoes: 3 ½cups(800 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1.2oz(35 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Wild fennel: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
If you are a fan of simple and quick first courses like us, you will be captivated from the first taste by these spaghetti with tomato, anchovies, and pecorino. With just a few, but delicious ingredients, we have transformed the classic spaghetti with tomato into an aromatic and irresistible recipe. An unusual touch is given by the fresh note of wild fennel, which enriches the slightly spicy cherry tomato sauce. The authentic and bold flavor of the anchovies adds a marine note that completes the dish deliciously.
Enrich your menus with other pasta recipes with tomato:

To prepare spaghetti with tomato, anchovies, and pecorino, clean the fresh anchovies : remove the head, make a cut along the back, and gut them, rinse under running water and open the fillets like a book . In a pan, heat oil, garlic , and minced fresh chili pepper . Let flavor for a few minutes and remove the garlic.
Add the peeled tomatoes , slightly salt, and let cook for 20 minutes on medium heat. Dip the cleaned anchovies into the sauce and cook for a few minutes, just enough to color them. Stir gently to avoid mashing them .
Cook the pasta until al dente , then drain it into the sauce for a quick toss .
Add a ladle of the pasta cooking water , a drizzle of oil , and finally the grated Pecorino Romano cheese .
Flavor the pasta with a few sprigs of fresh wild fennel and stir to blend . Your spaghetti with tomato, anchovies, and pecorino are ready to be served !
We recommend consuming the spaghetti with tomato, anchovies, and pecorino immediately.
If you do not appreciate the aromatic notes of wild fennel, you can replace it with fresh parsley.
Looking for a gluten-free alternative? Try the recipe for Buckwheat spaghetti with anchovies and cherry tomatoes !

