name:
Cuttlefish Stew without Tomato
ingredients:
Octopi: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (cleaned)
Potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Dry white wine: 0.85cup(200 g)
Water: 0.8cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Cuttlefish stew is a classic of Mediterranean cuisine, loved for its genuine flavor and ease of preparation. In this recipe, we explain how to make the white version: cuttlefish stew without tomato! The cooking method is the same, but instead of the sauce, we added potatoes to obtain a complete and nutritious fish main course. Cuttlefish and potatoes, after all, are a winning combination that never goes wrong! If you're looking for a simple and tasty dish for your seafood menus, all you have to do is follow this recipe and serve cuttlefish stew without tomato with bruschetta topped with garlic and oil... success is guaranteed.
Try these recipes with cuttlefish as well:

To prepare the cuttlefish stew without tomato, first take care of cleaning the cuttlefish (alternatively, ask your trusted fishmonger to clean them): separate the head from the body , remove the beak and eyes , then open the mantle and remove the skin. Finally, rinse them well under running water, including the tentacles. Cut the cuttlefish into strips approximately 1/4 inch wide .
Peel the potatoes and cut them in half lengthwise, then cut them in half again and finally into not-too-large cubes . In a pan, sauté the cloves of garlic with their skin , then add the cuttlefish and brown for a couple of minutes on high heat.
Add the potatoes and deglaze with the white wine , then let the alcohol evaporate .
Pour a glass of water into the pan , salt and pepper, then lower the heat and cover with a lid . Cook on low heat for about 30 minutes, stirring occasionally.
After this time, taste the potatoes to check if they are cooked: they should be soft but not mushy. Then raise the heat and let the cooking juices thicken for about 5 minutes, then remove the garlic from the pan and add flavor with chopped parsley . Your cuttlefish stew without tomato is ready to be served !
The cuttlefish stew without tomato can be stored in the refrigerator for one day, in an airtight container.
If you prefer, you can use vegetable broth instead of water.
You can also make the recipe with baby cuttlefish, but you will need to adjust the cooking time.

