name:
Baked Chicken Breast with Tomato and Mozzarella
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 1.4cups(250 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 2 ¼cups(250 g)
Paprika: 0.9tsp(2 g)
Rosemary: 1 ½tsp(4 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves
Basil: 4leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 2

instructions:
Savory, wrapped, and gooey, what more could you ask from a second course? Here's the tantalizing idea we propose: baked chicken breast with tomato and mozzarella. Forget the usual grilled chicken breast, healthy but not very exciting, here you will find a triumph of irresistible flavors and creaminess, thanks to the fleshy cherry tomatoes and mozzarella! Baking also makes it healthier and keeps it tender inside. Once ready, grab a fresh loaf to savor every bit of this tasty sauce! Also, discover our delicious chicken pizzaiola !
To make the baked chicken breast with tomato and mozzarella, first finely chop the rosemary . Cut the chicken breast in half , place it in a bowl, and season it with paprika .
Add the rosemary as well , salt, pepper, and season with olive oil , massage the meat well with the aromas, cover with plastic wrap and set aside.
Now wash and halve the cherry tomatoes . In a pan suitable for oven cooking, add a drizzle of olive oil, add two cloves of garlic, and let them infuse for a couple of minutes. Then add the cherry tomatoes .
Flavor with basil leaves and cook on low heat for 10 minutes. After this time, remove the garlic cloves and add the chicken breast .
Cover with aluminum foil and transfer to a preheated oven for 25 minutes at 392°F. Meanwhile, slice the mozzarella and let it drain in a colander to lose its whey.
After 25 minutes, remove the aluminum foil and cook for another 10 minutes. Remove the chicken from the oven , place the mozzarella slices on top of the breasts , and put back in the oven for about 5 minutes on grill mode at 464°F, just enough time to melt the mozzarella. Serve the baked chicken breast with tomato and mozzarella hot and gooey .
We recommend consuming the baked chicken breast with tomato and mozzarella right away. If there are leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator for a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you do not have a pan suitable for baking, simply transfer the chicken to a baking dish after cooking the cherry tomatoes on the stove.

