name:
Tomato Soup
ingredients:
San Marzano tomatoes: 4.4lbs(1.5 kg)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Basil: 5leaves
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Bringing seasonal products to the table always has its advantages. At the market, they are the cheapest, have the typical color and aroma, and most importantly, their flavor is truly exceptional! Want an example? Tomatoes! In the hottest of seasons, these fruits are at their best, and so, given the high temperatures, we found the perfect recipe for the period, tomato soup. Do not call it gazpacho because this preparation has very little in common with it. It is, in fact, a delicacy in terms of flavor and not only that. A perfect dish for those who do not want to consume overly elaborate foods and thus enjoy a light, tasty, and especially seasonal soup. The secret? The use of San Marzano tomatoes ! A PDO variety from Campania that truly makes a difference, especially because it retains its original flavor even after cooking. For today's lunch, choose a seasonal recipe like our tomato soup, serve it at room temperature, and let us know if you liked it!
To prepare the tomato soup, start by washing the tomatoes. Then dry them and with a small knife, remove the stem and skin . Cut them in half and remove the seeds and juice . Once all are cleaned, chop them finely .
In a saucepan, heat the extra virgin olive oil together with a peeled garlic clove , after a minute, add the tomatoes and stir, allowing them to season for a few minutes .
Then add the basil leaves , salt, and give a final stir before covering with a lid and letting cook on low heat for at least 35 minutes .
After the time has passed, remove the basil and garlic , then using an immersion blender, blend the tomatoes to obtain a smooth puree . Let it cook for another 25-30 minutes to let it dry and thicken a bit ; then turn off the heat and let it cool at room temperature.
At this point, your tomato soup will be ready, we chose to serve it in small bowls and garnish it with fresh cream. If you want to do it too, it's really simple, just pour a little cream over the soup and with a spoon, form a spiral . Finally, add a touch of color and fragrance to your tomato soup by adding a basil leaf and serve .
You can store the tomato soup in the refrigerator for up to 2-3 days, preferably without cream. If you prefer, you can also freeze the soup for up to 2-3 months.
To accompany the tomato soup, we recommend croutons, baked with a drizzle of oil, salt, and oregano, in full Mediterranean style!

