name:
Spatzle with tomato and lemon
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Water: ⅔cup(150 g)
Nutmeg: to taste- for grating
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cherry tomatoes: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Lemon peel: 0.4oz(10 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Basil: 4leaves
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Tomato and lemon spatzle is a tasty and fragrant first course that brings together the flavors of Italy from North to South: the spatzle , the typical gnocchetti from South Tyrol, meet the Mediterranean taste of cherry tomatoes, basil, and lemon, creating a dish full of flavor and especially quick to prepare. It's best to prepare the dough for these delightful gnocchetti just before cooking, but don't worry as it will take you very little time. Arm yourself with a Spätzlehobel, the large-holed grater to make your spatzle perfectly, and your last-minute lunch or dinner will be served. A fresh and inviting first course: the tomato and lemon spatzle will ensure you make a great impression, and once you've mastered the technique, you can try other tasty versions like the spinach spatzle , appetizing gnocchetti with a bright green color!
To prepare the tomato and lemon spatzle, start with the sauce: take the cherry tomatoes, wash them, and cut them in half . In a non-stick pan, pour in the oil and add an unpeeled garlic clove , then add the cherry tomatoes .
Add the basil leaves and salt , cover with a lid and let it cook for 10 minutes . Put a pot of plenty of water on the heat and salt it when boiling (you'll need it to cook the spatzle); meanwhile, move on to preparing the spatzle: first, sift the flour into a bowl .
Add a pinch of salt and grate some nutmeg for flavor . Stirring with a whisk, add the eggs
and, while still stirring, gradually add the room temperature water , and mix until you get a soft, smooth, and lump-free dough . Once the dough is ready, remove the garlic clove from the cherry tomato sauce ;
when the water for the spatzle comes to a boil, take the Spätzlehobel , the typical tool for making spatzle, and position it over the pot: pour a ladle of dough into the designated space , and slide the tool back and forth, which will drop the freshly formed spatzle directly into the boiling water . If you don't have a Spätzlehobel , you can use a potato ricer (in this case, the dough will need to be slightly thicker). Continue until you've used all the dough. The spatzle will cook in moments: they will float to the surface once cooked, just like gnocchi .
As the spatzle float to the surface, strain them well with a slotted spoon and transfer them directly into the pan with the cherry tomatoes . Once you've transferred all the spatzle, grate the lemon zest
and mix well . Sauté the spatzle for a few moments and finish with a sprinkle of pepper . Plate and garnish with a fresh basil leaf . Your tomato and lemon spatzle are ready to be enjoyed!
It's recommended to consume the tomato and lemon spatzle immediately after preparation. If there are leftovers, they can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
If you want vibrant green and fragrant spatzle, you can blend the basil leaves with the water you're using to make the dough, and then no longer add basil during the sauce preparation.
The origin of the name spatzle - or Spätzle , to maintain the correct German spelling - is quite debated. Literally, it means "little sparrow," and according to some sources, it might have gotten this name in ancient times when spatzle were hand-cut, holding a quantity of dough in an elongated shape that could resemble a little bird. By pinching it with two fingers, small portions of dough the size of a gnocchetto were detached, which were then cooked in boiling water and seasoned according to local traditions.

