name:
Meatballs in Salad
ingredients:
Dried chickpeas: ¾cup(150 g)
Eggs: 1.2oz(35 g)- (1 small)
Fresh scallion: 2.8oz(80 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Breadcrumbs: 3.3tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Vegetable oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)- for frying
Lollo lettuce: 3 ½cups(180 g)
Lamb's lettuce: 2.3oz(65 g)
Beefsteak tomatoes: 2.1cups(370 g)
Provola cheese: 6.3oz(180 g)
Mango: 0.75lb(350 g)
Almond slices: ⅓cup(30 g)
Mustard: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus 12 hours of soaking the chickpeas and 1 hour of resting the meatballs

instructions:
Feeling hot and hungry? To refresh yourself from the summer heat, we offer you a fresh and rich one-dish meal: meatballs in salad, which combines the lightness of salad with the crunchiness of chickpea meatballs, tasty and substantial, ideal for recharging after a mountain walk or a day by the sea. A skillful mix of textures and flavors contained in one dish that will whet the appetite of the whole family. Bringing a delicious dish to the table that will tastefully color your holiday lunches is easier than you think, come discover our meatballs in salad recipe!
To prepare the one-dish meal meatballs in salad, start by soaking the chickpeas for 12 hours . After 12 hours, rinse the chickpeas under running water and dry them with a kitchen towel .
Remove the spring onion stem, trim the base, and slice it roughly . Pour the chickpeas into the mixer bowl, slice the fresh spring onion into rings , salt, pepper, and blend until you get a well-chopped homogeneous mixture .
Transfer the chopped chickpeas into a bowl, add the egg , grated Parmesan , and breadcrumbs .
Mix to combine all the ingredients , then take a small portion of the mixture (about 1/2 oz) and shape it into balls; as you make the meatballs, place them on a tray lined with parchment paper . With the indicated amounts, you will get about 28 meatballs. Let the meatballs firm up in the refrigerator for 1 hour. Meanwhile, make the dressing for the salad: in a bowl, pour in the mustard, olive oil
and lemon juice , mix with a spoon, and salt to taste . Set the sauce aside and toast the almond flakes in a pan for about 3 minutes, just enough to make them golden on the surface .
Wash the tomatoes and cut them into cubes , dice the provola cheese , then wash the lettuce and cut it into strips .
Set the ingredients aside and take the chickpea meatballs: in a pan, heat the vegetable oil until it reaches 356°F, for optimal frying we recommend using a food thermometer. Once the oil has reached the right temperature, immerse the meatballs , a few at a time to avoid lowering the oil temperature. Fry the meatballs for a couple of minutes or until golden, then drain them with a slotted spoon and place them on a tray lined with absorbent paper to dry the excess oil and let them cool slightly. In the meantime, finish preparing the salad by cutting the mango into wedges .
Then remove the peel from each wedge and dice it . Everything is ready to assemble the salad: in a serving plate, pour the lettuce and lamb's lettuce, add the provola cheese
Tomatoes, mango, and toasted almonds , dress with the sauce you prepared earlier , mix with a spoon to flavor and finish the dish with the fried chickpea meatballs . Your meatballs in salad are ready to be served.
It is recommended to consume the meatballs in salad immediately, once the dish is dressed. Alternatively, you can store the fried meatballs separately in the refrigerator for up to 1-2 days or freeze them raw and fry them directly from frozen when needed.
Those who love a crunchy note can use iceberg lettuce while those seeking bold flavors can add black olives. As an alternative to provola cheese, you can use smoked scamorza if you prefer a more pronounced flavor.
The dough for these meatballs is suitable for frying, so baking is not recommended as it would make the meatballs too dry.

