name:
Watermelon Salad
ingredients:
Watermelon: 4.4lbs(1.7 kg)
Iceberg lettuce: 3.3cups(180 g)
Speck: 2.5oz(70 g)
Peeled almonds: 0.6cup(80 g)
Pumpkin seeds: 1.4oz(40 g)- shelled
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Mint: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Balsamic vinegar: 1 ⅓tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Does watermelon immediately make you think of a refreshing break, a pause to recharge from the summer heat? Have you ever thought about enjoying this sweet and fresh fruit in a savory salad as an appetizer or side dish, perhaps alongside a very fresh Friselle ? Before turning up your nose, we invite you to try our colorful and crunchy watermelon salad. We are sure that you will be won over at the first taste by the freshness and flavor of this alternative big salad with a fruity touch. Substantial and nutritious, this summer dish is packed with energy and good cheer, perfect for enjoying at lunch after a morning at the beach, when you need to whet your appetite with cold and tasty dishes. Brighten your holiday table with the watermelon salad and discover new horizons of flavor!
To make the watermelon salad, take the speck and remove the fatty part with a knife , then cut it into strips and then into cubes and set aside. Prepare the iceberg lettuce: cut it in half, remove the central core
and cut it into thin strips , rinse the cut lettuce under running water, then dry it with a cloth and set aside. Now toast the almonds in a hot pan: about 3 minutes over medium heat, stirring often will suffice . Do the same with the pumpkin seeds in another pan, but reduce the time: 1 minute will suffice . Set aside.
Take the watermelon and cut it in half to get the amount indicated in the recipe; cut slices about 3/4 inch thick , remove the rind and the lighter part of the watermelon which is bitter and hard : you will get about 1.5 lbs of flesh.
Cut each slice into 3/4 inch cubes , finally remove the seeds . Everything is ready to assemble the watermelon salad: in a large bowl, pour the iceberg lettuce, the toasted almonds
and the toasted pumpkin seeds, add the diced speck , then season with salt and pepper to taste and dress with olive oil .
Mix, then finally add the watermelon cubes, season with balsamic vinegar and mix again to combine all the flavors. Finally, garnish with fresh mint leaves . Your fresh watermelon salad is ready to be served !
The watermelon salad is a dish to be consumed immediately once prepared. It is not recommended to freeze or store it in the refrigerator as composed; alternatively, you can store the salad without watermelon and without dressing in the refrigerator and add the watermelon only when serving.
Experiment with other exciting variations by adding black olives or flavorful cheeses like Pecorino or milder ones like feta or Asiago. Walnuts and pistachios can also be used instead of almonds and pumpkin seeds. Some cherry tomatoes, cucumbers, and peaches are possible combinations to discover!

