name:
Sandy green beans with cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Green beans: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Pomodori di Pachino (cherry tomatoes): 10
White bread loaf: 3slices
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2spoonfuls- to grate
Oregano: 1tsp- dry
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
They arrive on our tables in late spring and delight us with their simple goodness until early autumn: they are green beans, great to enjoy either Fried Green Beans or natural, for example in a colorful Green Bean Salad ! In the recipe for sandy green beans with cherry tomatoes, we suggest cooking them in a pan and seasoning them with crispy bread crumbs enriched with oregano and grated cheese... an easy and tasty side dish that you can pair with both meat and fish dishes, as long as the season allows!
Also try garlic green beans , genuine and flavorful!
To prepare the sandy green beans with cherry tomatoes, first trim the green beans by removing both ends , then rinse them under running water. Bring a pot of water to a boil and boil the green beans for about 15-20 minutes . Meanwhile, wash and quarter the cherry tomatoes .
Move on to the preparation of the seasoning: dice the sandwich bread and transfer it to a mixer , then add the oregano and blend.
Add the grated Parmesan cheese and blend again for a few seconds, then set the mixture aside . At this point, the green beans will be cooked, so drain them
and heat a pan with a drizzle of oil . Add the green beans and cherry tomatoes , salt , and cook for about 5-7 minutes.
After this time, pour the bread mixture into the pan and stir with a wooden spoon to mix everything well . When the crumbs are nice and golden, turn off the heat and serve your sandy green beans with cherry tomatoes !
Sandy green beans with cherry tomatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
If you wish, you can also add sliced black olives to the seasoning for an extra kick of flavor!

