name:
Cold pasta with pesto, potatoes, and green beans
ingredients:
Bow tie pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Potatoes: 7.1oz(200 g)
Green beans: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Basil: 2.1oz(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6 ¾tbsp(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1tbsp(15 g)
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Coarse salt: 1pinch
Pine nuts: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Cold pasta with pesto, potatoes, and green beans is a tasty summer variation of the traditional first course from Ligurian cuisine, which features the Genoese pesto . The keywords for this pasta are: easy and quick. A quick blend in the mixer for an express basil pesto, still flavorful, and a clever cooking of potatoes and green beans with the farfalle to optimize time, you'll quickly bring to the table a special and appetizing cold pasta , perfect for your summer lunches. This alternative to the classic trenette with pesto, potatoes, and green beans is perfect for those who love to savor authentic and genuine flavors during the hottest months of the year. If you're looking for a light alternative to enjoy with company, cold pasta with pesto, potatoes, and green beans is an excellent choice to enrich the menus of outdoor dinners or picnics in the countryside!
Come and browse through our cold pasta recipes:

To prepare the cold pasta with pesto, potatoes, and green beans, start with the quick pesto: in the mixer cup, add the cleaned basil, garlic clove, coarse salt , Parmigiano Reggiano DOP , and pecorino .
Add the pine nuts and extra virgin olive oil , then blend with an immersion mixer .
You need to obtain a smooth sauce . Set the pesto aside and proceed with the preparation: put a pot full of salted water on the stove and bring to a boil. Peel the potatoes and cut them into cubes of about 0.6 inches .
Wash and trim the green beans . When the water boils, add the pasta and diced potatoes .
Add the cleaned green beans and boil everything together for the cooking time of the pasta. Drain and let cool , then transfer to a bowl and dress with the homemade pesto .
Mix well to flavor . Serve by garnishing the plates with pine nuts . The cold pasta with pesto, potatoes, and green beans is ready to enjoy !
Cold pasta with pesto, potatoes, and green beans can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
You can prepare the pesto in advance and store it in the refrigerator.
If you prefer, you can make the pesto using a mortar according to tradition.
To make the garlic more digestible, simply remove the central inner part.

