name:
Watermelon Fruit Bowl
ingredients:
Watermelon: 17.6lbs(8 kg)
Melon: 1 ½cup(250 g)- pulp
Peach: 2
Cherries: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Pineapple: 1.3cups(300 g)- pulp
Lemons: 3.5oz(100 g)
Oranges: 3.5oz(100 g)
Raspberries: 0.8cup(100 g)
Blueberries: 0.7cup(100 g)
Strawberries: 1.7cups(250 g)
Orange juice: 2
Lemon juice: 1
Sugar: 3 ½tbsp(40 g)
Moscato wine: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 40 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note Plus 2 hours for cooling in the refrigerator

instructions:
Do you have a watermelon at home and don't feel like eating it in slices? Join us in preparing a delightful watermelon fruit bowl, perfect for refreshing warm summer evenings! Scoop out a whole watermelon with a melon baller and fill it with all the seasonal fruits you prefer: cantaloupe, peaches, strawberries, cherries, blueberries, raspberries, and pineapple! Then mix lemon juice, orange juice, sugar, and Moscato wine and pour everything into the watermelon. After a few hours in the refrigerator, your watermelon fruit bowl is ready: a fresh fruit salad, flavored with Moscato wine, to serve in an original way, directly in the watermelon!
To prepare the watermelon fruit bowl, get a round and regular watermelon that can stand upright when placed on the bottom end and remove the top at about ¾ of its height . If it doesn't stand upright, even it out at the bottom as well. Scoop out the watermelon with a semicircular melon baller until you have 1 lb of ball-shaped pulp and set them aside in a bowl .
Now proceed with cleaning the other fruits: cut the cantaloupe into slices about ½ inch thick and with cookie cutters, for example in the shape of a heart or star, cut out about 1 lb of pulp . Wash and peel the peaches, remove the pit, and cut the pulp into cubes .
Wash the cherries, remove their stems, cut them in half, and take out the pit . Move on to the pineapple: cut off the crown and then the skin all around with a serrated knife, as it is very hard and thick . Cut it in half and slice the pulp into triangles .
Wash the strawberries, remove the green stem, and cut them lengthwise . Cut the lemon and orange into thin slices, which you will divide into four parts (11-12).
At this point, extract the juice from one lemon and two oranges , strain it, and transfer it to a large bowl . Pour all the Moscato wine into the extracted juice .
Add the sugar and mix well. Pour the obtained mix into the hollowed-out watermelon and gently add all the previously peeled fruits starting with the watermelon balls .
Then add the cantaloupe shapes , pineapple and strawberries , cherries ,
peaches , and finally the raspberries and blueberries . Mix with a spoon and cover the watermelon with the top cut off at the beginning. Place the watermelon fruit bowl in the refrigerator for at least two hours, and your fresh watermelon fruit bowl is ready to serve in individual cups, decorated with the lemon and orange wedges previously cut! Happy Ferragosto!
Keep the watermelon fruit bowl in the refrigerator for a maximum of two days.
You can also prepare a non-alcoholic watermelon fruit bowl by mixing one liter of soda or fruit juice with orange and lemon juice, instead of wine. Or for a party with friends, you can make the watermelon fruit bowl more alcoholic by mixing a quarter of vodka or gin or another liqueur you like with three quarters of orange or fruit juice. Of course, you can replace the fruit with those you prefer and that are available at the market!

