name:
Cold pasta with bell pepper pesto and caciocavallo cheese
ingredients:
Casarecce pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Almond slices: 30
Caciocavallo cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Red peppers: 1
Yellow peppers: 1
Almonds: 3tbsp(40 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: 30leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
But what could be better than a nice cold pasta when the air outside is scorching? It takes so little: boil the pasta, prepare the ingredients to dress it, give it a good mix, and you're done. From the classic to the variations, this summer dish knows no limits. So we decided to give you a new inspiration: cold pasta with bell pepper pesto and caciocavallo cheese. A delightful combination of flavors where the sweetness of the summer vegetable meets the savoriness of the cheese. A long-lasting embrace because if cold pasta usually becomes tiring, this one won't. Oh, and we almost forgot, also try serving an excellent Red Pepper Hummus or a Savory Pie with Peppers and Cheese with peppers and cheese, summer ideas not to be missed.
Also try the cold pasta with pesto, potatoes, and green beans to enrich your summer menus!
To prepare the cold pasta with bell pepper pesto and caciocavallo, we start with the peppers. After washing them, remove the stem , clean the inside , and cut them into pieces .
Blanch the pieces in boiling salted water for a couple of minutes , then immediately drain them into a bowl with ice water : this helps stop the cooking. After a few minutes, drain them carefully and pour them into the mixer cup .
Add the oil, almonds , grated Parmigiano Reggiano , peeled garlic
finally the basil leaves . Blend until you obtain a smooth sauce , transfer it to a bowl, cover, and place in the refrigerator .
Meanwhile, toast the almond slices in a non-stick pan , then cut the caciocavallo into cubes . Now that you have everything, cook the pasta by plunging the casarecce into boiling salted water .
Drain the pasta al dente and cool it briefly under a stream of cold water , then put the casarecce in a large bowl and dress with the bell pepper pesto . Add the toasted almonds ,
the cubed caciocavallo , a drizzle of oil, and a few more basil leaves . Mix and plate your bell pepper pesto and caciocavallo pasta
The cold pasta with bell pepper pesto and caciocavallo can be stored in the refrigerator for a few days.
Freezing is not recommended.
Add a few mint leaves to your pesto for an unexpected touch of freshness and goodness!

