name:
Cold pasta with garlic-free pesto
ingredients:
Casarecce pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 1.4cups(250 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Black olives: 1.8oz(50 g)
Coarse salt: to taste
Basil: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6 ½tbsp(90 g)
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(20 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.4oz(10 g)- to grate
Pecorino cheese: 2tbsp(10 g)- to grate
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
An express and light basil pesto , made without a mortar and without garlic, with a handful of exquisitely Mediterranean-flavored ingredients, and you're done! In just a few minutes, you'll prepare a tantalizing cold pesto pasta, a fresh first course that will brighten your holiday table, seaside picnics, and outdoor buffets with its colors and aromas! And if you're a fan of cold pasta , try these other tasty recipes:
To make the garlic-free cold pasta with pesto, first place a pot full of salted water on the stove to bring to a boil, which will be used to cook the pasta. Meanwhile, prepare the pesto: wash and dry the basil leaves thoroughly, then transfer them to a blender and add the pine nuts , the grated Parmesan and Pecorino cheeses. Add salt and also pour in the olive oil .
Turn on the blades and blend the mixture until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous sauce ; set aside the dressing. Cook the pasta for the time indicated on the package and in the meantime, prepare the other ingredients. Cut the mozzarella into cubes .
Place it in a sieve and let it drain so that it loses its whey . Wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them into wedges . Lastly, slice the olives into rings .
Drain the pasta into a bowl, season with olive oil, mix, and let cool. Once the pasta is cold, pour in the pesto and mix to combine. Add the cherry tomatoes .
Complete the seasoning with the olives and mozzarella , then adjust with salt and pepper and serve your garlic-free cold pesto pasta .
The garlic-free cold pesto pasta can be stored in the refrigerator for one day. You can make the garlic-free pesto in advance and store it in the refrigerator.
This first course stimulates both appetite and imagination: have fun varying the ingredients by replacing, for example, the pine nuts with almonds or the black olives with Taggiasca olives!

