name:
Cold pasta with vegetables and turmeric
ingredients:
5-grain fusilli pasta: 11.25oz(320 g)
Powdered turmeric: 3spoonfuls
Green beans: ¾cup(100 g)
Baby Zucchini (summer squash): 3.5oz(100 g)- with flowers
Carrots: ¾cup(100 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Beefsteak tomatoes: 7.1oz(200 g)
Tuna in oil: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Oregano: to taste- fresh

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Cook time: 22 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Known as the saffron of India , turmeric is one of the spices contained in curry, and it is the one that gives the famous blend its beautiful ocher color. Unlike saffron, turmeric has a gentler flavor that infuses dishes with a delicate aroma; we have experimented with this fabulous spice also in meatballs paired with cauliflower . Mild taste and bright color, why not use this magical yellow powder to season cold pasta ? This is how our cold pasta with vegetables and turmeric was born, surrounded by crunchy and colorful sautéed vegetables. The result is a summer main course different from the usual that lights up the table with its bright hues and tantalizes the palate. And if you are fans of easy and quick cold pastas also try this one with ricotta and cherry tomatoes or the cold variation of pasta alla Norma , fresh and enticing!
To make cold pasta with vegetables and turmeric, first wash the green beans, trim them, and cut them in half . Peel the carrots and slice them diagonally then cut the slices into small sticks .
Wash the tomatoes and slice them, removing the inner seeds if you prefer; then cut them into cubes . Now wash and trim the zucchini, slice them diagonally , take the zucchini flowers, cut off the base, and remove the inner pistil
And cut the petals into strips . Place a pot full of water on the stove to bring to a boil (this will be for cooking the pasta). Heat the olive oil in a large pan, add the whole chili pepper and the garlic clove . Sauté for 5 minutes, then add the carrots and green beans and stir-fry over medium heat for 5 minutes.
In the meantime, cook the pasta for about 9 minutes or the time indicated on the package . Remove the garlic and the chili pepper and add the zucchini , salt, pepper, and continue cooking for 3 minutes. This way the vegetables will remain crunchy.
Flavor the pasta water with turmeric which will give a golden color to the fusilli . When the pasta is cooked, drain it directly into the sauce and let it cool. Then add the zucchini flowers cut into strips, season with a drizzle of raw oil ,
and a few fresh oregano leaves . Finish with the diced cherry tomatoes , the well-drained canned tuna , and a grind of black pepper. The cold pasta with vegetables and turmeric is ready to be served!
Cold pasta with vegetables and turmeric can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
Peas, black olives, sun-dried tomatoes in oil: these are just some tempting variations to try!

