name:
Cold pasta with vegetable caponata
ingredients:
Mezze Penne Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Eggplant: 0.75lb(300 g)
Zucchini: 0.67cup(150 g)
Red peppers: 0.7cup(100 g)
Yellow peppers: ½cup(100 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 0.33lb(150 g)
Red onions: 2.6oz(75 g)
Sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)
White wine vinegar: 1.7tbsp(25 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Colorful rice salads and aromatic cold pastas with only vegetables or in Pasta salad with agretti and prawns , are always a tasty solution to whet the appetite during the hottest summer days. Inspired by ratatouille, a classic of Provençal cuisine, our cold pasta with vegetable caponata is a riot of colors and flavors, the ideal dish to delight tables during sultry summer lunches, when appetite comes with eating , especially fresh and light-flavored dishes. This small bouquet of Mediterranean vegetables, a tribute to the warmest season, has a delightfully tangy taste reminiscent of the traditional Italian-style pickled vegetables and will win you over with its genuine simplicity!
To prepare the cold pasta with vegetable caponata, start with the eggplants. Wash them, dry them, and cut them into 1/2 inch (1 cm) cubes . Now fry the eggplants: heat the seed oil in a high-sided pan and immerse a few pieces at a time so that the cooking is even and the oil temperature does not drop. When the cubes are golden, drain them on absorbent paper and season with salt.
Move on to the onion, peel it and finely chop it with a knife . Then deal with the other vegetables, clean them and cut them into 1/2 inch (1 cm) cubes. Start with the red and yellow bell peppers (5-6)
And proceed the same way with the zucchini and tomatoes . Meanwhile, place a pot full of salted water on the stove and bring it to a boil; it will be used for cooking the pasta. In a pan, pour some extra virgin olive oil, then add the onion and let it brown for 2 minutes over medium heat.
Add the bell peppers and zucchini and sauté for a couple of minutes. Season with salt, lower the heat, and cover with a lid for 5 minutes .
Meanwhile, cook the pasta in boiling salted water , cooking it al dente, 2-3 minutes less than the time indicated on the package. The sauce is almost ready, add the sugar and vinegar ,
stir and cook for a couple more minutes, then turn off the heat . Finally, add the cooked pasta , the fried eggplants
and the diced tomatoes and mix everything. Let it cool before serving your cold pasta with vegetable caponata .
The cold pasta with vegetable caponata can be safely stored in the refrigerator, in a glass bowl covered with film, for up to 1-2 days. We do not recommend freezing.
Enhance your cold pasta with vegetable caponata by adding olives, capers, and other seasonal vegetables: the important thing is always to pay attention to the cooking process. Or you can add some cheese cubes, for example: mozzarella, primo sale, or Greek feta! Instead of basil, try some wild fennel! Transform this cold pasta into a classic "hot" one by adding about 1 1/4 cups (300 g) of tomato sauce to the pan with the vegetables.

