name:
Cold Pasta with Zucchini
ingredients:
Mezze Maniche Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Zucchini: 4cups(500 g)
Celery: 5.3oz(150 g)- with leaves
Feta cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 2 ½cups(360 g)
Taggiasca olives: 2.8oz(80 g)- pitted
Mint: 10leaves
Lime: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 7 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low
Note + 1 hour for marinating the zucchini

instructions:
When the summer heat dampens the desire to cook but not the appetite, there's only one answer: cold pasta ! Light, easy to prepare, and especially refreshing. But this cold pasta with zucchini is truly special because the zucchini are simply marinated with lime juice, preserving their full flavor, enhanced by the fresh and tangy notes of lime and mint. It doesn't stop there: cherry tomatoes, celery, and feta perfectly complement the marinated zucchini, making this cold pasta a colorful and inviting dish. We tried it with mezze maniche rigate, but you can prepare it with your favorite pasta shape and make the cold pasta with zucchini a delicious summer first course for a picnic or a day at the beach.
Also try these easy and quick cold pasta recipes:

To prepare the cold pasta with zucchini, start with the zucchini: after washing them well, remove the ends and then slice them very finely with a mandoline to obtain rounds about 1 millimeter (about 1/16 inch) thick . Place the zucchini in a bowl and grate the lime zest .
Now take the mint: separate the leaves , slice them into thin strips with a knife , and then add them to the zucchini in the bowl .
Squeeze the lime season with 2 tablespoons of oil . Add salt and pepper and mix well .
At this point, cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let the zucchini marinate in the refrigerator for an hour. Meanwhile, prepare the water for the pasta, adding salt once it boils, and cook the mezze maniche rigate for about 7 minutes (as indicated on the package), so that they remain al dente. Drain the pasta .
and place it in a bowl: season it with about 2 teaspoons of oil and let it cool. Then move on to the rest of the dressing: quarter the cherry tomatoes and, with a vegetable peeler, remove the fibrous part from the celery stalk .
Finely chop the celery so that the stalk becomes strips and the leaves into pieces about 1 centimeter (about 3/8 inch) . Then also dice the feta . After the zucchini have finished marinating for an hour, you can proceed to combine all the ingredients: pour the zucchini and their marinade into the bowl with the now cold pasta ;
add the cherry tomatoes and feta , the celery and its leaves , and the pitted taggiasca olives , mixing well to blend all the ingredients.
Season with the remaining oil and mix again before plating . Your cold pasta with zucchini is ready to be enjoyed!
The cold pasta with zucchini can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, in a jar or in a container covered with plastic wrap. If you plan to prepare it in advance, add the cherry tomatoes only at the moment of serving, so they don't become acidic. Freezing is not recommended.
You can enrich your cold pasta by also adding carrots cut into thin rounds or julienne, which you will marinate together with the zucchini. If you prefer a crunchy touch, you can also add chopped nuts to the other ingredients. Basil will also be very pleasant instead of mint, and lemon zest and juice instead of lime.

