name:
Cold Pasta with Gazpacho
ingredients:
Pipe Rigate pasta: 7oz(200 g)
White wine vinegar: ½cup(110 ml)
Cucumbers: 7oz(200 g)
Bread: 1 ¾cup(100 g)- (stale breadcrumbs)
Cluster tomatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Red onions: 2.3oz(65 g)
Red peppers: 1 ½cup(225 g)
Green peppers: 1 ½cup(225 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus the gazpacho cooling time

instructions:
A dive into sunny Andalusia, while not forgetting the Italian tradition of a good first course of pasta ! Cold pasta with gazpacho is the meeting of these two culinary cultures: the typical Spanish cold soup rich in seasonal vegetables blended together with bread crumbs meets pipe rigate, a special shape, ideal for collecting all the creamy dressing. The peculiarity of this dish is precisely enjoying a cold soup, with the intact taste of raw peppers, tomatoes, cucumbers, and red onions. A refreshing dish on hot summer days, quick to prepare and ideal to enjoy by the sea or in the city when the heat is relentless! Cold pasta with gazpacho is an original idea also as a packed lunch for a work break!
If you love easy and quick cold pasta dishes with Mediterranean flavors, don't miss the version with cherry tomatoes and ricotta or the original cold pasta alla Norma !
To prepare the cold pasta with gazpacho , start with the latter: extract the crumbs from the stale bread to place in a bowl and moisten with water and white wine vinegar ; let it absorb the liquids, then drain it with a sieve and set aside. Then proceed to clean and chop the vegetables: wash and cut the tomatoes in half, place them on a small bowl to remove the internal seeds ; trim and peel the cucumber and cut it into slices .
Continue with the green and red peppers: wash them and cut them in half, then remove the stem and internal filament with seeds, then cut the slices into strips . Finally, peel the red onion and the garlic clove and slice them roughly . Pour the chopped vegetables into a blender , add the extra virgin olive oil in a thin stream, also adjusting with salt and pepper to taste.
and run the blender to get a smooth and homogeneous mixture . Strain the dense mixture obtained using a fine mesh sieve and the back of a spoon to remove any residues of skins and seeds, collecting the mixture in a bowl . Transfer the mixture back into the blender and add the well-squeezed crumbs and adjust if needed with salt, pepper, or vinegar.
Blend again for a few seconds until a smooth and homogeneous mixture is obtained . Then, let the gazpacho rest for a few hours. Meanwhile, cook the pipe rigate in a pot with boiling salted water to taste . Then drain them al dente and cool the pasta under cold running water. After that, drain it well and transfer it into a large bowl, pour part of the gazpacho to dress the pasta .
Divide the remaining gazpacho into the serving plates and pour the dressed pipe rigate into them ; you can decorate each plate with cucumber slices and basil if you prefer. Your cold pasta with gazpacho is ready to be served.
The cold pasta with gazpacho can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day.
The gazpacho alone can be stored in an airtight container for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.



Before serving, you can also enrich the cold pasta with gazpacho with diced tomatoes and red onions!

