name:
Baked Sea Bream Fillets
ingredients:
Sea bream: 12.5oz(360 g)- (2 fillets already cleaned, with skin)
Snap peas: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
Baked sea bream fillets are the main course you were looking for to enhance your fish menu with a light and healthy dish, without frying and low in fat. In this recipe, the sea bream is paired with a colorful and rich side dish, embodying exquisite spring flavors that cook alongside the sea bream. This way, not only will the dish be more flavorful, but you'll also prepare the main course and side dish together! If you're not experienced with filleting, you can simply purchase pre-filleted sea bream from your fishmonger, making preparing baked sea bream fillets a breeze, even for those less adept in the kitchen!
Here are other delightful ways to prepare sea bream:
To prepare baked sea bream fillets, first handle the vegetables. After washing them, cut the snow peas into pieces and the colorful cherry tomatoes in half . Place in a bowl and season with rosemary .
Add garlic , oil , salt, pepper, and mix to flavor. Set aside. Take two fillets from about 1.3 lbs of whole sea bream. You can ask your fishmonger to fillet the sea bream for you, or try it yourself by following our cooking school: how to clean sea bream . Check for any bones and, if necessary, remove them with tweezers .
In a baking dish lined with parchment paper, drizzle some oil, salt , and pepper. Place the sea bream fillets on top and season them with a sprinkle of pepper and salt. Add the vegetables as well .
Bake in a preheated oven at 392°F for 20 minutes . Once cooking is complete , serve the baked sea bream fillets immediately .
It is recommended to consume the baked sea bream fillets immediately. They can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day.
You can use vegetables of your choice based on seasonal availability: zucchini, bell peppers, carrots, broccoli, or potatoes—it's up to you!

