name:
Baked Sea Bream Sicilian Style
ingredients:
Sea bream: 4- (already gutted)
Raisins: 3 ½tbsp(30 g)
Pine nuts: 3 ½tbsp(30 g)
Breadcrumbs: 0.8cup(100 g)
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
A flavorful and aromatic fish main course that retains all its aromas from the oven to the plate: the Sicilian-style baked sea bream will surprise you with its intense flavor. The fish is cooked en papillote, a cooking method that involves sealing the ingredients inside parchment paper to maintain the right humidity and retain all the flavors that will be released once you plate it. A simple yet rich dish that enhances the sea bream with raisins, breadcrumbs, parsley... some of the most typical Mediterranean aromas. Sicilian-style baked sea bream: let’s discover together how easy it is to make. Also, find out how to prepare baked sea bream , sea bream with salt crust , or our pan-fried sea bream fillets with potatoes !
To prepare the Sicilian-style baked sea bream, take the already gutted sea breams and cut off the side fins . Then, using scissors, widen the existing belly cut to have more space for stuffing. Remove the external scales by rubbing with the blade of a knife, then rinse well under running water. Rinse the raisins and soak them in cold water for at least 10 minutes . Toast the pine nuts in a pan for 2-3 minutes to make them more aromatic .
Toast the breadcrumbs in a large non-stick pan for a few minutes , stirring often. Chop the parsley . Pour into a bowl with the toasted breadcrumbs, toasted pine nuts, drained and squeezed raisins ,
the parsley , a pinch of salt and pepper. Add oil gradually to moisten the breadcrumbs without making it excessively greasy . Mix the medley of flavors .
Place each sea bream on a rectangle of parchment paper large enough to contain it completely. Stuff it with the aromatic mix and oil the exterior with a drizzle of oil . Seal each fish in the parchment paper ,
then close it like a candy with kitchen string . Cook the sea breams in a preheated fan oven at 392°F for about 15-20 minutes , in the center of the oven. Remove the Sicilian-style baked sea bream from the oven and enjoy them hot!
It is advisable to consume the Sicilian-style baked sea bream immediately. If there are leftovers, they can be stored in the fridge for one day and warmed up as needed.
You can add orange or lemon juice to the aromatic mix.

