name:
Sea bream fillet en papillote
ingredients:
Sea bream: 1.5lbs(700 g)- (4 fillets)
Peas: 14oz(400 g)- to clean
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Carrots: 1 ¼cup(140 g)
Radishes: 2.8oz(80 g)
Capers in vinegar: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Lemon peel: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Cooking fish en papillote is an excellent solution for quickly preparing and serving a main dish of meat or fish with a side, all made in a single baked preparation . Besides our recipes with Baked Trout in Foil , Red mullet en papillote , Mackerel en Papillote , and also Sea bass en papillote with citrus and pomegranate , today you can also add sea bream fillets en papillote. This lemon-scented version contains a colorful heart of flavorful vegetables that will allow you to bring to the table a dish with a lively and genuine taste.
Also try the delicious baked sea bream fillets with cherry tomatoes and snow peas!
To prepare the sea bream fillets en papillote, first shell the peas , you will need about 2.5 oz, then peel and cut the carrots into strips and do the same with the zucchini .
Wash the radishes and slice them thinly . Now, in a pan, heat the oil and the clove of garlic in its skin , add the zucchini, carrots, and peas , and cook for 3 minutes over moderate heat.
Then deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate. Season with the zest of half a lemon and thyme leaves .
Cook for another two minutes, then remove the clove of garlic , add salt and pepper , and turn off the heat, the vegetables should be crunchy. Lay a sheet of parchment paper on the table, place one of the cleaned sea bream fillets in the center, and season with oil .
Add salt , pepper, and season with the zest of half a lemon . Now lay some of the cooked vegetables and the drained capers on top of the fish .
Also add the radishes and thyme leaves . Close the papillote by lifting the edges of the paper and overlapping them above the fish .
Now fold the paper on the two short sides to seal the papillote . Repeat in the same way with the other 3 fillets. Place the 4 papillotes on a baking sheet and bake in a preheated oven at 392°F for 20 minutes. Once cooked, take the sea bream fillets en papillote out of the oven and serve them hot .
The sea bream fillets en papillote can be stored for a maximum of one day in the refrigerator. We do not recommend freezing after cooking.
You can vary the vegetables according to your taste and the season, ensuring they are well dried, or they will release too much liquid during cooking.

