name:
Stuffed Zucchini with Smoked Sea Bass
ingredients:
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(260 g)- (2 medium)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste-
Smoked sea bass: 3.5oz(100 g)
Carrots: 1 ½cup(150 g)- 1 piece
Zucchini: 1cup(100 g)- 1 each
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Lemon juice: 3tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
There are endless ways to prepare stuffed zucchini , such as vegetarian ones or regional traditional ones like Ligurian style ... most of the time, these are baked in the oven with added meat, rice, or cheese and certainly, the result is excellent but not very light. Today we want to propose a fresher version perfect for spring lunches or summer evenings spent on the porch with friends. The stuffed zucchini with smoked sea bass is a very refined fish appetizer and once it arrives at the table it will attract everyone's attention! These zucchini boats hold a crispy salad made of carrots and zucchini, which, dressed with a lemon citronette, immediately feels like summer, while the strips of sea bass will give the dish a smoky note. Prepare all the ingredients to cook the stuffed zucchini with smoked sea bass with us!
To prepare the stuffed zucchini with smoked sea bass, start by washing the zucchini, then trim them and cut them in half , then slice them lengthwise , this way you will get 8 pieces that will be your boats.
Scoop out the insides using a melon baller or a teaspoon and blanch the zucchinis in boiling water for about 5 minutes . When they have softened, remove them from the water .
Place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and season with salt, pepper, and oil then bake in a preheated fan oven at 338°F for 10 minutes. Meanwhile, trim the zucchinis you need for the filling and peel the carrots , then grate them using a coarse grater and set aside for a moment.
At this point, your zucchini boats will be ready, remove them from the oven and let them cool ; meanwhile, prepare the citronette that will dress your zucchini and carrot salad. Squeeze 1 lemon , to obtain 40 g of juice, then transfer it into a bowl, add the oil
and salt and pepper to taste. Emulsify everything using a whisk and pour it into the grated carrot and zucchini salad .
Mix everything and set aside. Meanwhile, remove the skin from the smoked sea bass fillets using a sharp knife . Cut the fillets crosswise and start assembling the zucchinis.
Arrange the boats, now cooled, on a serving plate and fill them with the carrot and zucchini salad , then place the pieces of sea bass on top and serve your stuffed zucchini with smoked sea bass .
It is recommended to consume the stuffed zucchini with smoked sea bass on the same day. Freezing is not recommended.
To add a crunchy note, coarsely chop some nuts and use them to decorate your boats!

