name:
Sea bass Ligurian style
ingredients:
Sea bass (sea bass): 2.4lbs(1100 g)- (2 pieces)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Taggiasca olives: 1.75oz(50 g)- pitted
Pine nuts: 3tbsp(20 g)
Thyme: 2sprigs-
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Ligurian sea bass is a traditional main course, easy and genuine, made with a symbolic ingredient of Liguria, the famous Taggiasca olives. These small yet flavorful olives are enough to add character to the dishes. The crunchy note of toasted pine nuts and the aromatic touch of fresh thyme leaves complete this simple but delicious dish. Come and discover how easy and quick it is to prepare our Ligurian-style sea bass, an excellent variant of the classic baked sea bass , and explore other delightful fish main courses:
To prepare the Ligurian-style sea bass fillets, start by cleaning the fresh sea bass. Place the whole fish under running water and scale it using a fish scaler or alternatively use the blade of a knife. You need to rub the scaler from the tail along the entire sea bass until it is completely scaled. Now place the fish on the cutting board and cut the belly open with scissors . Remove the insides .
Then rinse the fish under running water to remove any residues . Now fillet the fish: remove the head and then, keeping the knife parallel to the work surface, make a deep cut along the backbone of the sea bass, close to the bones, making it easier to separate the fillet .
With a small knife, remove the reddish veins located in the central part of each fillet . Now gently remove the noticeable bones from the fish's belly with a knife, being careful not to break the flesh. Proceed by removing the remaining bones with tweezers . Now place a pan on the heat with oil and a clove of garlic ,
let it infuse well, and place the sea bass fillets in the pan, skin side down . Cook for 2 minutes over medium heat, being careful to turn them with a spatula halfway through cooking. Do this very gently so as not to break the sea bass. At this point, add the olives , and use kitchen tongs to remove the garlic .
Salt, pepper, and season the sea bass fillets with fresh thyme leaves . Turn off the heat and, in another pan, toast the pine nuts for 2-3 minutes over medium heat . Serve the Ligurian-style sea bass fillet with olives and garnish with the toasted pine nuts !
Ligurian-style sea bass can be stored in the refrigerator for up to a couple of days.
Freezing is not recommended.
To flavor the Ligurian-style sea bass, you can also use marjoram, with its fresh and delicate flavor.

