name:
Baked Sea Bass with Lemon Potatoes
ingredients:
Sea bass (sea bass): 1.25lbs(550 g)
Potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Lemons: 1
Wild fennel: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 4sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Baking en papillote always has its charm; all the flavors and aromas remain sealed inside, and once at the table, it will capture everyone's attention... its mysterious air and the surprise it holds make this moment enchanting. By opening our parcel today, you'll discover a delicious baked sea bass with potatoes and lemon, offering a fresh and delicate taste perfect for any season and occasion. The juices of the tender and flavorful sea bass will be trapped inside, resulting in a soft and succulent dish, very aromatic thanks to the fennel and lemon slices. Prepare this baked sea bass with potatoes and lemon yourself, serve it still sealed, and let your guests discover all the Mediterranean flavors you've chosen for them!
Also try the sea bass fillet with caramelized fennel and orange sauce , a gourmet recipe for your important occasions!
To prepare the baked sea bass with potatoes, start by cleaning the fish. First, take the sea bass and scale it with the appropriate tool, running it over the entire surface several times, from tail to head (alternatively, you can use the back of a knife). To avoid making a mess, you can do this operation in the sink . Then, using scissors, make a cut starting from the tail along the entire belly of the sea bass . Remove the innards .
and rinse it under running water . Also remove the fins using kitchen scissors and rinse it again. Pat it dry with a cloth and temporarily set it aside in the refrigerator.
At this point, peel the potatoes , then cut them into wedges and transfer them to a baking tray lined with parchment paper. Season with salt, pepper, and oil .
Add the rosemary sprigs and the grated zest of a lemon , trying to cover all the potatoes evenly . Bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for 25 minutes.
Meanwhile, take the sea bass again and season the inside of the belly with salt and pepper . Take the lemon and cut two thin slices , insert the fennel inside the belly of the sea bass first .
then the lemon slices and lastly the clove of garlic in its skin . At this point, close the sea bass inside a sheet of parchment paper .
and complete the parcel by wrapping it also in a sheet of aluminum foil (19-20). After 25 minutes, take the potatoes out of the oven .
and place the parcel on the tray . Bake again at 375°F for another 25-30 minutes. Once cooked, take your baked sea bass with potatoes and lemon out of the oven and serve it hot !
It is recommended to consume the sea bass as soon as it's prepared; alternatively, you can store it for up to one day in the refrigerator. Freezing is not recommended.
Add green or black olives to the stuffing for an even more intense flavor!

