name:
Smoked Sea Bass Salad with Mango and Nuts
ingredients:
Sea bass (sea bass): 7oz(200 g)- (smoked fillets)
Cucumbers: 1.7cups(250 g)
Mango: 1cup(250 g)- pulp
Cashews: ¼cup(30 g)
Currants: 2tbsp(30 g)
Lamb's lettuce: 5.3oz(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Stunning in summer for their freshness, salads are all the rage when the good weather begins. They are loved for their refreshing quality, like the one with shrimp and pineapple , yet they are also nutritious and filling, like the green potato salad . They represent a cold summer dish, an appetizer, or a side dish and can whet your appetite with exotic flavors like the one we propose today: smoked sea bass salad with mango and nuts. Often salmon is paired with salads, but in this case, we have decided to offer you a different version with smoked sea bass fillets. A simple yet intriguing appetizer thanks to the addition of mango, which with its juicy and aromatic taste balances the acidic notes of the currants and the crunchiness of the cashews. The unique color combination also makes this salad perfect for serving at a dinner with friends. Imagine yourself in summer on the terrace, at sunset, sipping a fresh aperitif... this salad is simply perfect!
If you love this fish, also try the sea bass ceviche , a tasty variant of the typical Peruvian dish!
To prepare the smoked sea bass salad with mango and nuts, start with the cucumber preparation. Take the cucumber, rinse it, and peel it using a vegetable peeler . Then cut off the ends and divide the cucumber in half. Then slice each half lengthwise and cut each slice into cubes about 1/2 inch thick . Set the cut cucumber aside.
Then move on to the mango. Peel it , slice it in half to remove the pit, and cut out a slice weighing 9 oz. Cut it into strips of equal thickness along the length of the slice , then cut each strip into cubes about 1/2 inch .
Place the mango cubes in a bowl along with the cucumber . Add the currants and mix to combine the ingredients . Set aside.
Then take the smoked sea bass and, using a sharp knife, separate the skin from the flesh , proceeding from the tail and then along the belly of the fillet. Cut the sea bass fillets in half , then cut them into small pieces about 1/2 inch . Repeat for all the smoked sea bass fillets and set aside.
Divide the lamb's lettuce, and the mango, cucumber, and currant salad into 4 bowls . Also, add the cashews and the sea bass pieces , dividing them equally among the 4 bowls. At this point, your smoked sea bass salad with mango and nuts is ready to be served !
You can store the smoked sea bass salad with mango and nuts for up to 1 day in the refrigerator, well covered with clear plastic wrap.
Freezing is not recommended.
Get creative with adding other types of nuts to this preparation, such as pecans and macadamias for an even more intense and flavorful taste! Want more exotic flavor? Add avocado too!

