name:
Sea bream in salt crust
ingredients:
Sea bream: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- Cleaned and gutted
Coarse salt: 4.4lbs(2 kg)
Lemon thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Lemons: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
Sea bream in salt is a main dish that represents the simplicity and purity of Mediterranean cuisine and enhances the delicate and unmistakable flavor of this fish. The sea bream, with its white and delicate flesh, is perfect for salt crust cooking, a fascinating method that allows you to cook the fish without adding fats, keeping its taste intact. The result is spectacular, the fish will be tender and juicy, releasing all the scents of the sea. Discover the doses and procedure to prepare this dish at home!
If you are looking for other sea bream recipes, don't miss:
To prepare the sea bream in salt, first pour the first kilo of salt into a baking dish, add the lemon thyme , then add the rest of the salt and mix .
Meanwhile, slice the lemon and fill the belly of the sea bream, previously cleaned and gutted, with the lemon slices and some lemon thyme .
Pour less than half of the aromatic salt onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, place the sea bream on top and cover with the rest of the salt, making sure it adheres well to the fish . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 25-30 minutes.
Once cooked, break the salt crust with 2 tablespoons , carefully remove the skin and take out the fillets . Using two forks, it will be easy to lift the fillets above the bone; then lift the head to remove the bone and take out the fillets underneath.
Plate, season with oil , thyme, and pepper . The sea bream in salt is ready to be enjoyed .
Consume the sea bream in salt immediately, but if there are leftovers, you can store it in the refrigerator in a closed container for up to 2 days.
Ensure the fish is completely covered in salt; this will guarantee even cooking and perfect preservation of the juices. You can enrich the salt crust with herbs, spices, or citrus fruits, to give the fish a personal and unique touch.

