name:
Lemon Cream Crumble Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)- (cold)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (about 1 medium)
Powdered sugar: 1.3cups(150 g)
Baking powder: 0.8tsp(3 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(35 g)
Whole milk: 1 ½cup(400 g)
Egg yolks: 4 ½tbsp(65 g)- (about 4 medium eggs)
Sugar: 0.67cup(130 g)
Lemon juice: 4tbsp(65 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + 1 hour of dough resting time

instructions:
If you are already in love with Nutella Crumble Cake or the classic Sbriciolata with Custard , here is the lemon cream crumble cake for you! Let us immerse you in another delightful variant of this dessert made with an easy-to-make shortcrust pastry crumb shell, inspired by the traditional Mantuan Sbrisolona Cake . This time, the fragrant shell encloses a generous layer of lemon-scented cream, made in the classic way with flour: a delicious dessert to serve both as a dessert after a meal or for a super snack with a fresh and aromatic taste. The genuine and rustic appearance of the lemon cream crumble hides, at the first taste, its divine goodness!
Try other crumble variants:

To prepare the lemon cream crumble, first cut the butter into cubes and keep it in the fridge: it needs to be very cold for the base. Meanwhile, take care of the cream. Heat the milk , add a pinch of salt , and bring to just below boiling point. In the meantime, pour the egg yolks and lemon zest into a bowl .
Add the sugar and mix , then incorporate the sifted flour and the strained lemon juice . Mix to get a smooth, lump-free mixture.
Now incorporate the hot milk, pouring it in 2-3 batches and mixing. Pour the mixture back into the saucepan where you heated the milk and bring the cream to a boil, stirring continuously and making sure to scrape the bottom of the pan well . When the cream starts to thicken, let it cook for about 1-2 minutes.
Once the cream is ready , pour it into a baking dish and cover with cling wrap, directly on the surface . Let it cool to room temperature and then transfer to the fridge. Now, take care of the base: in a food processor, add the flour and the very cold butter .
Add a pinch of salt, the baking powder , and the zest of a lemon . Blend to obtain a sandy mixture and pour it into a large bowl .
Add the powdered sugar , the egg , and mix with your fingertips .
Work just enough to absorb the liquids. Cover with cling wrap and let it chill in the fridge for at least 1 hour. After the chilling time for the base and the cream, take the cold dough and crumble it with your hands . Pour more than half of the mixture into a 8-inch cake pan lined with parchment paper .
With your hands, form the shell and press slightly to prevent the cream from leaking out . Then take the cream and mix it with a spatula , then pour it into the cake pan .
Cover the surface of the cake pan with the remaining dough . Bake in a preheated oven for about 80 minutes, at 350°F on the lowest rack of the oven. After the baking time, take it out of the oven and let it cool . Once cooled, remove the lemon cream crumble cake from the pan and sprinkle with powdered sugar as desired.
It can be stored in the fridge for 2-3 days covered. Freezing is not recommended.
For the shortcrust to be successful, the butter used must be cold from the fridge and should not be warmed too much; handling it too long with your hands risks warming it. This process should last as little time as possible.
Resting in the fridge is essential to bring the butter back to an optimal temperature for achieving the crumbly effect. It is better to use flour for the lemon cream since a second baking in the oven is required.

