name:
Gluten-Free Strawberry Cheesecake
ingredients:
Gluten-free oatmeal cookies: 9.2oz(260 g)
Butter: 5oz(140 g)
Gluten free Spreadable Fresh cheese: ½cup(250 g)
Robiola cheese: 14.1oz(400 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(100 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Gluten free gelatine in envelopes: 1.8tsp(9 g)
Strawberries: 3 ½cups(500 g)
Gluten free gelatine in envelopes: 1.4tsp(7 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Lemon juice: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 8
Note +6 hours of cooling

instructions:
Spring has sprung! To celebrate with sweetness, we offer you a fresh and aromatic dessert with an extra touch: the gluten-free strawberry cheesecake. A delicious proposal where the gluten-free requirement meets the craving for sweets, and it will be love at first taste. Taking inspiration from the traditional cheesecake , we have prepared a no-bake and easy-to-make variant. Each layer will meet your delicious expectations: a crunchy base made with irresistibly crumbly oat biscuits, a rich and delicate cream, and finally a fruity topping made with strawberry coulis, which will enliven the table with its intense color.
Also try the Ricotta and Raspberry Glasses , a delicious single-serve gluten-free dessert.
And if you're looking for other gluten-free ideas for your festive menus, try our Gluten-free Easter Pie !
To make the strawberry cheesecake, start by preparing the base: melt the butter over low heat and let it cool. Put the cookies in the mixer and activate the blades until they are finely chopped to get a sandy mixture . Transfer the cookies into a bowl, pour the melted and cooled butter , and mix to combine.
Pour the mixture into a 9-inch springform pan greased and lined with parchment paper on the bottom and sides. Press the mixture well on the bottom of the pan with the back of a spoon to get a compact and smooth base . Let the mixture rest in the freezer for at least half an hour so that the base becomes solid. Now prepare the cream. Soak 9 g of gelatin sheets in cold water for about 10 minutes . Heat the cream in a saucepan, add the sugar, dissolve well, and then incorporate the squeezed gelatin off the heat .
Stir until it is dissolved, then let it cool. In a bowl, pour the two cheeses and mix with a whisk . Pour the cream with the gelatin into the bowl with the cheeses . Combine everything with the whisk.
You should get a smooth and lump-free cream . Take the base from the freezer, pour the cream , level the surface well with a spatula, and transfer to the fridge for about 4 hours .
After 3 hours, wash the strawberries and cut them into 1/8-inch slices , add the granulated sugar, lemon zest , and its juice .
Mix and let marinate for about 30 minutes at room temperature . After 20 minutes, soak 7 g of gelatin in cold water for 10 minutes . Then take the strawberries marinated with sugar and lemon and pour them into a pot .
Cook for 5 minutes over high heat . Then turn off the heat, take 3-4 tablespoons of hot strawberry juice and pour it into a bowl , dissolve the softened and squeezed gelatin here .
Stir until completely dissolved , then pour it into the pot with the rest of the mixture . Let cool and pour the fruit coulis over the cheesecake cream .
Level the surface well with the spatula and transfer to the fridge for 1-2 hours. After the cooling time , remove the cheesecake from the mold and garnish with fresh mint leaves. The gluten-free strawberry cheesecake is ready to be served.
Keep the gluten-free strawberry cheesecake in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. It can be frozen if you have used fresh ingredients.
You can prepare the cheesecake the day before serving it to allow it to firm up well overnight. You can omit the strawberry coulis and simply decorate with fresh strawberries cut into slices and arranged in a radial pattern.
For gluten-free recipes, we recommend purchasing only products that display the crossed-out wheat symbol on the package, certified gluten-free, and recommended by the AIC Italian Celiac Association .

