name:
Soft Strawberry Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Strawberries: 1 ½cup(240 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2 medium)
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)
Lemon juice: ½

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
Craving a soft, fruit-rich cake perfect to enjoy for breakfast or a snack? Then let's prepare the soft strawberry cake together, with a scenic effect that will win over the whole family! The strawberries, blended and added into the dough, release all their sweetness and flavor. But what makes this cake special is the marbled effect, a delight to discover! Its colors and aromas immediately take us back to the beautiful season and terrace snacks, perhaps along with cheesecake , Ricotta and Strawberry Cups , tiramisù and other strawberry delights! Accompany this cake with a scoop of vanilla ice cream or some custard sauce for a complete and delicious dessert. The soft strawberry cake will accompany you throughout the day, it's up to you to choose your favorite moment to enjoy it! Discover also how to prepare our yogurt cake with strawberries and almonds !
To prepare the soft strawberry cake, first wash the strawberries and remove the stem . Transfer them to a tall, narrow container, add the lemon juice , blend with an immersion blender and set aside.
Melt the butter over low heat and let it cool. Pour the eggs into a large bowl and start beating them with an electric mixer, gradually adding the sugar . You should obtain a light and frothy mixture . At this point, sift in both the flour ,
and the baking powder . Mix them into the batter, stirring gently with a spatula from bottom to top and also clockwise . Add half of the strawberry puree
and stir again with the spatula . Then add the melted cool butter and continue mixing until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture. Butter a springform pan with a diameter of 8 inches and pour the batter inside .
Pour the remaining strawberry puree on top and create a marbled effect with a fork . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 55 minutes.
Remove from the oven , let cool and then remove from the pan. Dust with powdered sugar and serve your soft strawberry cake .
Store the soft strawberry cake under a glass dome for a maximum of 2-3 days.
You can freeze it in portions.
Want a tasty touch? Add white chocolate chips to the batter!

