name:
Raw Strawberry Tart
ingredients:
Peeled almonds: 1cup(120 g)
Shredded coconut: ½cup(40 g)
Dates: 1cup(180 g)- pitted
Salted almond butter: ½cup(130 g)
Strawberries: 1 ¾cup(250 g)
Wild strawberries: ½cup(70 g)
Cashews: ½cup(80 g)
Coconut oil: 0.4cup(90 g)
Whole cane sugar: 3 ½tbsp(40 g)
Strawberries: to taste
Wild strawberries: to taste
Edible flowers: to taste- rose petals
Almonds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: High
Note + 1 night to rehydrate the cashews and 4 hours to set the dessert

instructions:
We had already talked about the no-bake tart , even though, in reality, we did use a few moments of cooking. But this time, we will tackle the matter better and guide you into the raw food world where ovens, stoves, microwaves, and any other cooking method you can think of are truly banned! Here's our colorful and flavorful raw strawberry and wild strawberry tart. Could we ever resist these delicious and fragrant spring fruits? Definitely not, and this fresh strawberry tart without cooking is the proof! Although, to be honest, both the cream and the base can be easily adapted according to your tastes and even the seasonality. So discover with us the recipe for the raw strawberry tart and let us know what you think!
To prepare the raw strawberry tart, start with the base, you will need to soak the cashews overnight to degrease them and make them more digestible . After the time has passed, blend almonds, pitted dates , shredded coconut, and almond butter in a mixer.
You will obtain malleable crumbs . Line the bottom of an 8.5-inch tart pan with the mixture, compacting it well with the back of a spoon, then place it in the fridge to set for about half an hour . In the meantime, prepare the cream: pour the cleaned strawberries, wild strawberries into the mixer.
Add the melted coconut oil (either in a pot or microwave) , and lastly, thoroughly rinse the cashews and add them as well . Activate the processor until you get a smooth cream .
Pour the mixture onto the base and spread it carefully, placing it in the refrigerator to set for at least 4 hours . When the dessert has firmed up, move on to decoration. Clean the strawberries and slice them .
Then add the wild strawberries and halved skin-on almonds , garnish with a few dried rose petals , and your raw strawberry tart is ready .
You can store the raw strawberry tart in the fridge for a few days; it would be better to decorate it at the moment. The base, however, can last a few more days.
The base of the raw strawberry tart can also be used with other fruit-based creams you prefer.
You can use the more common peanut butter instead of almond butter.
Observe the soaking times for the cashews to degrease them and make them more digestible.

