name:
Tuna in the pan
ingredients:
Tuna filet: 0.9lb(400 g)- (2 of 200 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Pomodori di Pachino (cherry tomatoes): 12
Parsley: 1bunch
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Taggiasca olives: 1.4oz(40 g)
Salted capers: 2tsp(10 g)
White wine: 1.8oz(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 16 min
Serving: 2
Cost: High

instructions:
Tuna in the pan is an easy and quick recipe, perfect for those who want to enjoy fresh tuna with a seasoning full of Mediterranean flavors. In a few minutes, you'll serve a nutritious and delicious dish enriched with Pachino tomatoes, small and juicy, with a sweet and intense flavor; Taggiasca olives, with their characteristic slightly bitter and fruity taste; and capers, which add a touch of savoriness and freshness to the dish.
This fish main course combines fresh and aromatic ingredients creating a tasty sauce that envelops the tuna, for a balanced and flavorful dish. Simple to prepare, tuna in the pan is an excellent choice for those looking for a healthy and tasty meal.
Here you will find more tuna recipes to make at home:
To prepare tuna in the pan, first coarsely chop the Taggiasca olives and desalted capers . Wash and halve the cherry tomatoes . In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil with a clove of garlic in its skin .
Place the tuna fillets here and sear them for 3 minutes on each side . Deglaze with white wine and let the alcohol evaporate.
Add the cherry tomatoes , salt , and pepper .
Finish with the chopped olives and capers , then cover with a lid and cook for 10 minutes over medium heat . Once ready, serve the tuna fillets immediately .
Finish with the cherry tomato sauce and a sprinkle of freshly chopped parsley . Your tuna in the pan is ready to enjoy !
We recommend consuming the tuna in the pan as soon as it's ready.
If you can't find Taggiasca olives, you can replace them with other black olives. If you prefer an even lighter version, you can omit the white wine and add a bit of vegetable broth to deglaze the tuna.

