name:
Linguine with Prawns, Cherry Tomatoes, and Lemon
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Prawns: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- to clean
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: to taste
Taggiasca olives: 1.8oz(50 g)- pitted
Lemon peel: 1
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
White onions: 1
White wine: 1.5oz(40 g)
Datterino tomatoes: ⅔cup(100 g)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Datterino tomatoes: 1 ¾cup(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Salt: 1tsp
Black pepper: 1tsp
Sugar: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Linguine with prawns, cherry tomatoes, and lemon is a fragrant and tasty first course. In this recipe, the bold and rich flavor of the prawns is enhanced by an aromatic bisque , which adds depth to the sauce. The confit cherry tomatoes add a sweetness that balances the citrus notes of the lemon. It is an ideal dish to serve when you want to impress your guests with simplicity and elegance, without sacrificing substance. Linguine with prawns, cherry tomatoes, and lemon doesn't need elaborate plating: just a nice deep dish and a few basil leaves to let the colors and aromas speak for themselves.
If you're looking for more first courses with prawns, take a look at:
To prepare the linguine with prawns, cherry tomatoes, and lemon, first, focus on the cleaning of the prawns . Remove the head , but keep it aside as it will be used for the bisque. Remove the shell, intestines, and obtain the flesh , then set aside. For the bisque, melt the butter in a pot, add the lemon zest .
Add the garlic, the onion cut in half , the prawn heads , and the cherry tomatoes .
Crush the heads , keeping the flame high. Deglaze with white wine and let the alcohol evaporate. Cover with water and cook over medium heat for 30 minutes.
Once ready , strain and keep warm. Meanwhile, prepare the confit cherry tomatoes. Cut the cherry tomatoes in half , place them in a baking tray with the cut side up. Season with oil .
Continue with salt and pepper . Also add the sugar and bake in a preheated oven at 480°F for 10 minutes . Set aside the roasted cherry tomatoes.
Cook the pasta in salted boiling water . Meanwhile, in a pan, heat a little oil, add the garlic and basil stems . Add the prawns .
Adjust with salt , add the lemon zest and sauté quickly, for about 6 minutes. As soon as they take color, remove them from the pan and set aside covered. Drain the pasta, halfway through cooking, directly into the pan .
Finish cooking by adding the bisque one ladle at a time until the pasta is al dente. Add the confit cherry tomatoes and the prawns .
Continue with the Taggiasca olives , a few basil leaves, and a sprinkle of lemon zest . Your linguine with prawns, cherry tomatoes, and lemon is ready to be enjoyed !
The linguine with prawns, cherry tomatoes, and lemon should be consumed as soon as ready, however, if there are leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator in a closed container for up to 1 day.
If you love spiciness, you can add a fresh chili pepper sliced into rounds along with the garlic and basil stems. If you want a quicker version, you can use fresh cherry tomatoes lightly sautéed in a pan, or add them raw at the end of cooking for a fresher and more acidic note.

