name:
Glazed Chicken Wings with Soy Sauce
ingredients:
Chicken wings: 4.4lbs(2 kg)
Red onions: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- to clean
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Garlic powder: 1tsp
Smoked paprika: 1tsp
Apple cider vinegar: 0.4cup(100 g)
Soy sauce: ½cup(100 g)
Wildflower honey: 2tbsp(50 g)
Sesame seeds: 1spoonful
Cornstarch: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Crispy on the outside, juicy on the inside, these chicken wings are an irresistible second course, a perfect balance between intensity and sweetness. The meat is flavored with smoked paprika and garlic, then ultimately captivates with each bite thanks to the final glaze: a thick and glossy glaze where soy sauce meets honey in a blend with a deep and enveloping taste. Baking makes them golden to perfection, ready to become the star of a night with friends or a dinner without too much formality, but with a lot of flavor. Simple to prepare, but with a surprising result, these special chicken wings demonstrate that even a simple dish can make an impression.
If you like chicken wings, also try:
Discover more delicious Asian recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the glazed chicken wings with soy sauce, first place the wings in a baking dish or bowl, then season with oil , salt , and pepper .
Continue with garlic powder , paprika , and massage the meat so that the seasoning coats it evenly .
Place the wings on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and add the onion cut into wedges . Bake in a static oven at 390°F for 20 minutes, turn the wings , and continue cooking for another 20 minutes with the same settings. Meanwhile, prepare the sauce by pouring apple cider vinegar and soy sauce into a saucepan .
Continue with honey , sesame seeds , and corn starch . Mix well with a whisk.
Cook for 2 minutes, just enough time to thicken the sauce . Brush the wings with the sauce and bake in a convection oven at 390°F for 10 minutes. The glazed chicken wings with soy sauce are ready to be enjoyed hot !
The baked chicken wings should be consumed immediately, but if any are left over, you can store them in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
If you like bold flavors, you can add a pinch of chili powder or sriracha sauce for a spicier version. Prefer something more aromatic? Try using rosemary and thyme instead of paprika, or a marinade based on lemon, mustard, and honey for an alternative sweet and sour taste. Serve them with Greek yogurt sauce or hot sauce.

