name:
Strawberry and Coconut Pound Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Strawberries: 1.67cups(250 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Whole milk: 0.3cup(60 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Shredded coconut: ½cup(30 g)
Eggs: 3
Baking powder: 4tsp(16 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8

instructions:
The strawberry and coconut pound cake is a soft, fragrant, and irresistibly delicious dessert designed to bring the freshness of spring to the table. Fresh seasonal strawberries are the real stars: they enrich the batter with their natural sweetness and bring a lively touch of color that captivates at first glance. Perfect for breakfast or a snack, this pound cake combines the exotic taste of coconut with the genuine flavor of ripe strawberries, creating a simple yet surprising balance of flavors. A delicious and nutritious way to start the day with a smile!
After trying the strawberry and coconut pound cake, discover other delicious homemade fruit pound cake recipes:

To prepare the coconut and strawberry pound cake, first melt the butter and let it cool. Meanwhile, wash and cut the strawberries into pieces . In a bowl, crack the eggs and add the sugar , then whisk with an electric mixer .
Once you have a light and frothy mixture, add the sifted flour , shredded coconut , and baking powder. Mix and pour in the melted and cooled butter .
Blend everything with the electric mixer, then pour in the milk and mix again to incorporate it; you should obtain a thick and homogeneous batter. Lastly, add the strawberries and mix .
Line an 11x25 cm (approx. 4.3x9.8 inches) loaf pan with parchment paper . Pour in the batter and level the surface with a spatula , then make a central cut lengthwise with a knife dipped in melted butter. Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F (180°C), on the middle shelf, for one hour.
Do the toothpick test before taking the cake out of the oven, then let it cool in the pan . Garnish with powdered sugar and enjoy your strawberry and coconut pound cake !
The strawberry and coconut pound cake can be stored under a glass dome, in a cool place, for 2 days.
You can freeze it after baking.
We recommend not confusing shredded coconut with coconut flour, which has a finer consistency.

