name:
Lorighittas with seafood sauce
ingredients:
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1 ⅔cup(200 g)
Water: ½cup(110 g)
Salt: 1pinch
Mussels: 7oz(200 g)
Clams: 7oz(200 g)
Zucchini: 1
Cherry tomatoes: ⅔cup(100 g)
White wine: to taste
Parsley: 1tuft- minced
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time of the dough in the refrigerator (30 minutes)

instructions:
The lorighittas with seafood sauce are a first course that combines Sardinian tradition with the freshness and richness of seafood, creating the perfect union between land and sea. This type of fresh pasta pairs perfectly with many types of sauces, such as the Lorighittas with eggplants and mushrooms . In this recipe, they are featured alongside seafood: mussels and clams, with their tender and savory flesh, which together with white wine, create a rich and aromatic cooking base. The sauce, enriched with zucchini and cherry tomatoes, penetrates between the spirals of the pasta, enveloping them in a mix of flavors that is both intense and delicate. Finely chopped fresh parsley is the final touch that gives the dish an herbaceous, slightly pungent note, that further enhances the flavors of the sauce.
If you are looking for other Sardinian recipes, also try:

To prepare the lorighittas with seafood sauce, first place the semolina in a mound on the work surface, pour the water , add the salt , and start combining the semolina with a fork .
Then knead with your hands for at least 15 minutes, until you obtain a smooth and elastic dough . Cover it with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
After the resting time, take the dough and, with a dough scraper, cut it into pieces , then form long strands about 8 inches long and cut them into small pieces .
With each piece, form a spaghetti-like strand about 8 inches long and 2 mm thick . Wrap the strand around three fingers (index, middle, and ring) twice , then press the ends to seal them and trim any excess dough.
Hold the dough steady with one hand while twisting the two strands of the ring with the other hand , as if winding an old clock, until you achieve the typical twisted and slightly elongated shape of lorighittas . Arrange them neatly on the work surface and let them dry .
Meanwhile, in a pan, pour a drizzle of oil and add the clams and mussels , when they open, deglaze with white wine . Let the alcohol evaporate completely.
Strain everything and set aside the cooking water . Shell the mussels and clams but set a few aside with their shells for the final plating.
Cut the zucchini into half-moons and the cherry tomatoes in half . In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, add a garlic clove, and sauté for a few minutes, then add the zucchini and sauté for a few minutes until they become golden.
Add the cherry tomatoes and cook for another 5 minutes. Remove the garlic clove and pour the seafood cooking water into the pan .
Cook the lorighittas in plenty of salted boiling water for 4-5 minutes , drain them and transfer them to the pan . Add the mussels and clams and toss for a few minutes.
Off the heat, add the chopped parsley, a drizzle of oil , and toss. Plate and garnish with a few shell-on mollusks . Your lorighittas with seafood sauce are ready to be enjoyed .
The lorighittas with seafood sauce should be consumed immediately, but if leftovers remain, they can be stored in the refrigerator, in a sealed container, for up to 1 day.
Fresh lorighittas can be frozen, first place them in the freezer on a tray well-spaced to harden, then transfer them into a freezer bag to optimize space.
For an even richer version, you can add a sprinkle of freshly grated bottarga at the time of plating. Add a small amount of saffron to the sauce for a touch of color and a slightly spicy flavor.

