name:
Pasta with Fava Bean Cream and Chicory
ingredients:
Gluten-free Penne Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Dried fava beans: 1.1cups(200 g)
Carrots: 1
Shallot: 1
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Fine salt: to taste
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Chickory: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Gluten-free bread: 3.5oz(100 g)- soft
Parsley: 6tbsp(50 g)
Dill: 3.3tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Pasta with fava bean cream and chicory is a truly flavorful vegetarian first course, inspired by a traditional Apulian peasant recipe: " fava beans and chicory "! The fava bean cream makes this pasta unique and enveloping; it is made with dried fava beans and flavored with bay leaf and shallot. Its sweetness perfectly balances the bitterness of the sautéed chicory with the addition of garlic and chili pepper. But the real plus is the breadcrumbs flavored with parsley and dill... they will add a crunchy touch and an intoxicating aroma. Besides being vegetarian, this first course is also gluten-free as we used gluten-free penne and bread. Pasta with fava bean cream and chicory is an easy-to-prepare recipe, suitable for everyone and every occasion! Try also these recipes with fava beans:

To prepare pasta with fava bean cream and chicory, first place the dried fava beans in a pot . Pour in the water and add the peeled and halved shallot , the peeled and halved carrot, and a good pinch of salt .
Add a bay leaf and let it cook over medium heat for about an hour from boiling . Meanwhile, clean the chicory by removing the tougher stems and taking only the tender leaves . Then wash them well and immerse them in boiling salted water for a few minutes .
Transfer the chicory to ice water , then drain them well . Meanwhile, in a pan, brown a clove of garlic together with a chili pepper with a drizzle of oil. Add the well-drained chicory .
Sauté them for a few minutes , then remove the garlic and chili pepper. Prepare the breadcrumbs: in a blender, place the gluten-free bread pieces and the herbs .
Blend everything, then add a pinch of salt and a drizzle of oil ; you should obtain a very moist mixture. Sauté the mixture in a pan until it is completely dry to form crunchy crumbs .
When the fava beans are cooked, remove the bay leaf and carrots ; then blend with an immersion blender to turn them into cream .
Cook the pasta in plenty of boiling salted water . Meanwhile, reheat the chicory, then set some aside for decoration and pour the fava bean cream into the pan .
Drain the pasta al dente and transfer it to the pan , then toss everything to mix well and plate. Add some chicory on top and plenty of breadcrumbs. Your pasta with fava bean cream and chicory is ready to be served !
We recommend serving the pasta with fava bean cream and chicory immediately; alternatively, it can be stored in the refrigerator for one day. The sautéed chicory can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, as can the fava bean cream.
Add diced sautéed guanciale!

