name:
French fries with pecorino fondue and bacon
ingredients:
Potatoes: 4.4lbs(2 kg)- yellow for frying
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(200 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Pancetta: 9slices- almond nougat
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Chives: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: 8 ½cups(2 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Note + soaking time for the potatoes (30 min.)

instructions:
French fries are an irresistible treat, you just can't stop eating them... we're making it even harder for you with the recipe for French fries with pecorino fondue and bacon! A tasty and flavorful idea to offer for an appetizer with friends or, why not, as a delicious side dish for a burger night. The classic French fries are enriched with the creamy touch of cheese sauce and the crunchy touch of bacon, with the addition of the bold aroma of chives: a finger-licking fusion of flavors! We bet no one will be able to say no to French fries with pecorino fondue and bacon!
If this mix of ingredients has whetted your appetite, don't miss these recipes too:

To prepare the French fries with pecorino fondue and bacon, first peel the potatoes and cut them into slices about 0.4 inches thick , then into sticks about 2.4 inches long .
Transfer the potatoes to a bowl, cover with cold water , and let them soak for about 30 minutes. Meanwhile, pour the cream into a saucepan , add pepper , and heat over low heat to a temperature of about 140°F.
When the cream is hot, turn off the heat and add the grated pecorino , then stir with a whisk until you get a thick and homogeneous cream . If it turns out lumpy, you can blend it with an immersion blender.
Set the fondue aside and move on to the bacon: place the slices in a hot non-stick pan and brown them over medium-high heat for 3-4 minutes, turning them on both sides . Transfer the bacon to a rack and let it cool .
At this point, drain the French fries and dry them with a clean towel . Heat the seed oil in a saucepan to a temperature of 320°F-340°F, then immerse some of the fries and fry until golden . Don't add too many at once, or the oil temperature will drop.
Transfer the fried fries to paper towels and continue frying all the others, then salt them . Serve the French fries still hot, garnishing the dish with pecorino fondue .
Finish with coarsely crumbled bacon and chopped chives . Your French fries with pecorino fondue and bacon are ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the French fries with pecorino fondue and bacon immediately.
The pecorino fondue can be stored in the fridge for 2-3 days in an airtight container.
If you prefer, you can replace the pecorino with Parmigiano Reggiano, or use half of each.
It is important that the frying oil temperature does not exceed 340°F, otherwise, the fries might darken too much on the outside and remain raw on the inside.

