name:
Lemon Spaghetti
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Lemons: 2- organic
Fresh liquid cream: 2spoonfuls
Parsley: to taste- minced
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Lemon spaghetti is a very fresh main course, very quick to prepare and delicious. The creaminess of the cream wraps around the spaghetti, while the lemon, with its fresh and slightly acidic taste, adds a lively note that makes this dish unique and irresistible. It is ideal for those looking for a light yet satisfying course, capable of winning over everyone with its simplicity. It is a customizable recipe, allowing you to play with the ingredients and find the right balance between the sweet note of the cream and the fragrance and acidity of the lemon.
If you're looking for other lemon pasta recipes, also try:
To prepare lemon spaghetti, first plunge the spaghetti into salted boiling water . Meanwhile, while the spaghetti is cooking, grate the lemon zest and extract the juice .
In a pot, pour the oil and melt the butter, add half of the grated zest and the lemon juice . Mix and cook on low heat for a minute .
Drain the spaghetti two minutes before they are fully cooked and transfer them to the pan . Add two ladles of pasta cooking water and continue cooking, stirring occasionally .
Pour in the cream and stir to combine it with the other ingredients. Turn off the heat and add the chopped parsley , the remaining grated lemon zest, a sprinkle of pepper, and blend for a few minutes. The lemon spaghetti is ready to be served .
It's best to consume the lemon spaghetti immediately, but if there are leftovers, you can store them in a closed container in the refrigerator for up to 1 day.
Prefer organic lemons, as you will be using the zest. The ones from Amalfi or Sorrento are particularly recommended, for their intense aroma and thick, flavorful rind. Use only the yellow part of the zest, avoiding the white part which is more bitter. As additional flavors, you can use garlic and, if you are a fan of spicy food, fresh chili pepper cut into pieces.

