name:
Veal bites with lemon
ingredients:
Veal: 0.9lb(400 g)- chunks
Lemon juice: ½cup(100 g)
Lemon peel: to taste
Milk: ⅓cup(100 g)
White wine: 2.7oz(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
Potato starch: 1 ¼tbsp(10 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Veal bites with lemon are a delicious second course, ideal for a family lunch or dinner with friends. The veal bites, tender and delicate, are the perfect complement to the lemon sauce, which envelops the meat in a flavorful embrace and, thanks to its velvety creaminess, adds a note of freshness and liveliness to the dish. The result will win you over at the first taste and is an easy and quick alternative to the classic veal stew: with just a few simple steps, in fact, you will be able to transform an ordinary dish into a small masterpiece of taste. Veal bites with lemon are the perfect choice to surprise and delight your guests, conquering them with simplicity and refinement.
If you are looking for other easy and quick second courses with veal, also try:

To prepare the veal bites with lemon, start by making the lemon sauce. Pour the milk into a pan along with the grated zest and the juice of one lemon . Add the potato starch .
Place over moderate heat, until it almost reaches boiling. Stir to prevent lumps from forming . Turn off the heat and stir occasionally to prevent a skin from forming on the surface. Meanwhile, place the veal bites in a bowl, add the flour and mix. Ensure all the meat is coated with the flour, then remove the excess. Heat the oil in a pan .
Add the veal bites and brown them well. Deglaze with white wine and let all the alcohol evaporate over high heat. Season with salt .
Flavor with pepper , and cook covered over low heat for 8-10 minutes. Finally, add the lemon sauce and cook for another couple of minutes. Stir continuously to prevent the cream from sticking to the bottom; you should achieve a thick and velvety consistency. The veal bites with lemon are ready, plate and serve with fresh chopped parsley !
The veal bites can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for 1-2 days. Alternatively, you can freeze them after cooking.
You can substitute the veal with chicken, turkey, or pork.
Freshly grated or powdered ginger can be added to give a hint of spiciness and make this dish even more fragrant.
Parsley can be replaced with chives.

