name:
Chicken scallops with lemon
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Lemon juice: ½cup(120 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Chicken scalloppine with lemon are a delicious variation of the classic lemon scalloppine , traditionally prepared with veal. This main course is characterized by the pleasant citrus notes of lemon juice, which gives a touch of freshness to the delicate flavor of chicken, one of the most versatile ingredients in the kitchen. The irresistible sauce that forms as a cooking base is the highlight of this dish because it keeps the meat tender, making it more succulent. Discover with our recipe all the secrets for obtaining soft and appetizing chicken scalloppine with lemon. In a short time and with a few moves, you'll serve a fabulous dish!
Don't miss these other delicious scaloppine recipes:

To prepare chicken scalloppine with lemon, get thin slices of chicken breast (about 0.2 inches thick); if they are too thick, you can flatten them with a meat mallet after placing them between two sheets of parchment paper. Pass the chicken slices in flour to coat them well on both sides . Squeeze the lemon juice and set it aside. In a large pan, melt the butter over low heat .
Add the chicken slices and brown them for 2 minutes on each side. Season with salt and pepper .
Drizzle with the lemon juice . Allow it to be absorbed well by occasionally turning the scalloppine . It will take about 12 minutes of cooking over low heat, making sure the juice doesn't dry out excessively. In this case, you can add half a cup of room temperature water. At the end of cooking, add fresh chopped parsley . Serve the chicken scalloppine with lemon hot, coated with their cooking sauce.
Chicken scalloppine with lemon can be stored in an airtight container for up to 48 hours in the refrigerator.
We do not recommend freezing.
At the end of cooking, you can add the zest of an untreated lemon for a more intense aroma!

