name:
Ricotta and Strawberry Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- about 2 medium at room temperature
Type 00 flour: ⅓cup(50 g)
Sugar: 5 ½tbsp(70 g)
Wildflower honey: (5 g)
Lemon peel: ½
Water: 0.67cup(150 g)
Sugar: 75
Vanilla bean: ½
Strawberries: 2cups(300 g)
Sambuca: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Sugar: 3 ½tsp(15 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(110 g)
Powdered sugar: 6 ¾tbsp(50 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: High
Note + 2 hours of setting in the refrigerator

instructions:
Finally, the scent of strawberries has already made its appearance at the fruit and vegetable stands. We already imagine that you are all ready to bake cakes , tarts , and why not prepare a delicious Strawberry Jam for the whole year! Well, today we suggest a new recipe that will win you over, it's the ricotta and strawberry cake. A fresh dessert to serve to your guests who love this precious spring fruit. We have to confess that the original idea was to revisit the Ricotta and Pear Cake . But instead of using the classic dried fruit base, we chose a simple and quick Biscuit dough . Are you curious? Well, then you have to try our ricotta and strawberry cake and don't forget to tell us what you think!
To prepare the ricotta and strawberry cake, start with the genoise sponge. Pour the room-temperature eggs into a bowl, add the honey, the grated lemon zest , then the sugar a little at a time. Turn on the beaters and whip for about ten minutes until the mixture is fluffy and light and forms ribbons when lifting the beaters .
Turn off the beaters, place a sieve and sift the flour . Gently incorporate it with upward movements using a whisk or spatula . Transfer the mixture into two greased and floured 8-inch cake rings or pans .
Gently level the surface and proceed with baking : the disks bake in a static oven, preheated to 350°F, for about 10 minutes .
Once baked, flip them onto a rack and gently peel off the parchment paper while they are still hot. Then let them cool completely . Prepare the lemon syrup by infusing the lemon zest and vanilla bean for an hour. After the time has passed, pour everything into a saucepan, add the sugar
and when it is dissolved, strain and let it cool . In the meantime, move on to the strawberries. After briefly immersing them in fresh water, drain and clean them. Remove the top part and slice enough to line the circumference of the pan . The rest should be chopped and gathered in a bowl .
Pour the sugar over the strawberry pieces , mix, and let them macerate for about ten minutes . Then, pour into a pan ,
along with the sambuca, and sauté over high heat: be careful of any flames if you have a classic stove. As soon as they are slightly softened, turn off the stove and set aside . Now let's move on to the cream. Soak the gelatin in cold water for about ten minutes . Meanwhile, sift the ricotta
Heat 2 tablespoons of cream and dissolve the drained gelatin , then pour it over the ricotta and mix . Then add the slightly cooled strawberries .
Pour the remaining 1/3 cup of cold cream into a bowl along with the powdered sugar and whip it to stiff peaks with beaters . Pour the whipped cream into the bowl ,
gently fold it in . Set aside a couple of tablespoons, preferably without strawberries . At this point, everything is ready, proceed with the assembly. In a pastry ring lined with acetate (the circumference will probably be slightly smaller than the initial 8 inches) placed on a turntable or classic plate, place the first genoise sponge disk .
Moisten with a bit of syrup , pour the cream with the strawberry pieces , and then place the other disk .
Moisten the surface and refrigerate for a couple of hours . After the time has passed, remove the acetate and proceed to glaze the cake. Take the reserved cream and thin it with a bit of cream until you have a soft, not too liquid cream .
Then coat the entire cake with a spatula , garnish with sliced strawberries, alternating them with the tip first facing up and then down . Decorate the surface as desired, and your ricotta and strawberry cake is ready .
The ricotta and strawberry cake keeps for 2-3 days in the refrigerator.
It is better not to freeze it.
Instead of sambuca, you can deglaze with limoncello to enhance the acidic part of your ricotta and strawberry cake! Out of season, you can use strawberry preserve in the cream, and for decoration, opt for toasted chopped nuts in a pan.

