name:
Cherry and Chocolate Crumbles
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Almond flour: 1cup(100 g)
Fioretto corn flour: 0.83cup(100 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Salt: 1tsp
Cardamon: 1tsp- powdered
Cherries: ½cup(100 g)
Dark chocolate: 2.8oz(80 g)
Cherry jam: ⅛cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the cherry and chocolate crumbles, we were inspired by a typical dessert from Mantua: the sbrisolona cake . We used the same ingredients as the original recipe to make the shell of these small cakes, but we added others to make them even more delicious! Fresh cherries, perfect for this season, a bit of dark chocolate which is always a treat, and cherry jam for a creamy filling that contrasts with the crunchy exterior! The cherry and chocolate crumbles are perfect at any time of the day. You can accompany them with a scoop of vanilla ice cream and serve them as a dessert after dinner!
If you are looking for other single-serving delights, don't miss our recipe for the chocolate pie cake !
To prepare the cherry crumbles, first wash the cherries. Then pit them with the appropriate tool , or alternatively, you can cut them in half and remove the pit with your hands. Move on to the dough: in a bowl, pour the all-purpose flour , the cornmeal
and the almond flour . Add the sea salt flakes , the sugar
and the cardamom . Add the cold butter cut into cubes and start mixing everything using only your fingertips .
Also add the egg yolks and crumble the dough until it becomes homogeneous . Grease 6 molds with a diameter of 4 inches. At this point, transfer half of the just-prepared mixture, dividing it equally among the 6 molds .
Fill the crumbles with cherry pieces . Then roughly chop the chocolate and place it on top of the cherries .
Finish with the cherry jam and cover the crumbles with the remaining dough .
Place them on a baking sheet and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 25 minutes on the lower rack. Remove the crumbles from the oven and let them cool completely before removing them from the molds and serving .
The crumbles can be stored for 2 days under a glass dome.
Alternatively, they can be frozen.
Instead of all-purpose flour, try using rice flour! You'll get delicious gluten-free crumbles!

