name:
Stuffed Artichokes with Lentils
ingredients:
Purple artichokes: 4
Precooked lentils: 1cup(250 g)- (drained weight)
Tomato purée: 0.7cup(150 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Lemons: 1
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Green Peperoncino: to taste
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Looking for an original idea to cook artichokes? Lentil stuffed artichokes are a tasty vegetarian alternative to the classic Stuffed Artichokes with meat. An easy recipe, rich in flavor and perfect for those who want to serve a healthy and nutritious main course, yet very appetizing at the same time. The filling of lentils cooked in a slightly spicy tomato sauce with a hint of basil perfectly matches the delicate taste of the artichokes. The final oven gratin with breadcrumbs and Pecorino cheese will then ensure a tempting, crunchy golden crust. Perfect for the Easter menu, the lentil stuffed artichokes will win everyone over at the table with their rustic but super inviting appearance!
Here are many variations of stuffed artichokes to try:

To prepare the lentil stuffed artichokes, start by cleaning the artichokes: remove the stem and the tougher outer leaves , then cut off the tips of the leaves .
Hollow out the inside with a knife or a melon baller , then spread the leaves to create space in the center for the filling . As you clean the artichokes, soak them in lemon water to prevent them from browning .
After cleaning the artichokes, blanch them in lemon water for about 7 minutes . Then drain and set aside. In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil with a clove of garlic, then add the tomato sauce and season with chili powder to taste .
Add the pre-cooked lentils , fresh basil leaves for aroma and pepper .
Add salt and cook over moderate heat for 7-10 minutes . Fill the artichokes with the lentil mixture, right up to the edge .
Place the stuffed artichokes in a baking dish, then sprinkle the top with grated cheese and breadcrumbs. Drizzle with a bit of oil and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F (180°C) for 20 minutes, then continue cooking at 392°F (200°C) in grill mode for 10 minutes. Remove from the oven and let your lentil stuffed artichokes cool slightly before serving !
Lentil stuffed artichokes can be stored in the refrigerator in a closed container for 2 days.
If you prefer, you can flavor the sauce with onion instead of garlic.

