name:
Roast beef with sweet and sour vegetables
ingredients:
Beef sirloin: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Garlic: 2cloves- poached
Rosemary: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Sage: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Artichokes: 0.5lb(200 g)- (to be cleaned)
Asparagus: 7oz(200 g)- (to be cleaned)
Peas: 1cup(150 g)
White wine vinegar: 7tbsp(100 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Sugar: 2spoonfuls
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- shavings

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Simple to make but perfect to impress your guests, roast beef with sweet and sour vegetables is a special main course to offer for Easter lunch, and not only! Unlike the classic roast beef , the beef sirloin is seasoned with a mix of aromatic herbs that enhance its flavor. The tender and juicy meat is accompanied by a mix of sweet and sour vegetables, specifically artichokes, asparagus, and peas, for a fresh and spring-like side dish with unexpected nuances. The roast beef with sweet and sour vegetables is prepared with seasonal and quality ingredients, and in a few steps, you will surely leave a mark!
If you are looking for other roast beef recipes, also try:

To prepare the roast beef with sweet and sour vegetables, first finely chop the sage, thyme, and rosemary . Move on to the meat: remove the membrane from the sirloin and sprinkle with salt .
Add the chopped aromatic herbs as well and massage the meat to season it evenly . In a non-stick pan, heat the oil with the garlic cloves in their skins and let it infuse for a few minutes.
Place the meat in the pan and brown it well, on high heat, on all sides ; it will take about 10 minutes. Transfer the meat with its cooking juices to a baking dish lined with parchment paper and cook in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 25-30 minutes. If you have a probe, you can monitor the internal temperature of the meat: for rare it should be between 122°F and 131°F, for medium between 140°F and 149°F, if you prefer it well done the internal temperature should reach 158°F.
In the meantime, prepare the sweet and sour vegetables. For cleaning the asparagus, remove the woody part of the stem , then cut them into lozenges leaving the tips intact . For cleaning the artichokes , remove the outer and tougher leaves .
Clean the base of the stem , then cut the artichokes in half and remove the inner choke . Finally, slice them .
As you clean the artichokes, immediately immerse them in acidulated water . In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil, then add the artichokes and asparagus .
Salt, pepper and cook over medium-high heat for 8-10 minutes, until the vegetables are softened. Add the peas , then pour in the white wine vinegar .
Also add the sugar and water . Bring to a boil and cook over medium heat for 10-15 minutes .
Once the meat is cooked, remove from the oven and let it rest for 10 minutes, then cut it into thin slices . Place the slices of meat on a serving plate and distribute the sweet and sour vegetables .
Finish with Parmesan flakes , a few thyme leaves , and the vegetable cooking juices .
Finally, season with a drizzle of raw oil and a grind of pepper . Your roast beef with sweet and sour vegetables is ready to be served !
The roast beef with sweet and sour vegetables can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, placing the meat and vegetables in separate containers.
You can customize the side dish according to seasonal vegetables, for example, instead of artichokes, asparagus, and peas you can use zucchini, peppers, or red onions; it is important to maintain the right balance between the sweet and sour elements of the preparation.

