name:
Egg and Asparagus Clouds
ingredients:
Eggs: 4
Salt: 1pinch
Asparagus: 8.8oz(250 g)- (to be cleaned)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)- (to grate)
Lemon peel: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
From the combination of the symbolic ingredient of Easter, the eggs, and the quintessential spring vegetable, asparagus, comes a creative and scenic appetizer, ideal for your festive menu: egg and asparagus clouds! A simple yet impressive dish that captivates with its delicacy and the balance between different textures: the softness of whipped egg whites, the creaminess of the runny yolk, and the crunchiness of Asparagus in the pan , all laid on a velvety vegetable cream scented with thyme. A refined reinterpretation of the classic " Asparagus Milanese " duo, which will amaze your guests with its originality!
Besides the egg and asparagus clouds, discover these other Easter appetizers made with eggs:

To prepare the egg and asparagus clouds, first focus on cleaning the asparagus. Remove the woody base of the asparagus then slice them into rounds , keeping the tips whole .
In a pan, melt the butter in the oil . Add the asparagus stalks and cook over medium heat for 2 minutes, then add the tips . Sauté everything for about 7 minutes, so they remain crunchy.
Salt and pepper . Take half of the asparagus and transfer them to a jug, then add the cream and the grated Parmesan cheese .
Adjust with salt and pepper, then blend with an immersion blender until you get a smooth and homogeneous cream .
Move on to the eggs: separate the egg whites from the yolks, trying to keep the yolks intact. Place the egg whites in a bowl and use mixers, then add a pinch of salt and continue to whip; you should obtain a foamy and elastic consistency . Divide the mixture into 4 mounds and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
With the back of a spoon, create indentations in the center to hold the yolks and try to shape them as well. Bake in a static oven at 392°F for 6 minutes. At this point, remove from the oven and gently slide the yolks into the indentations , then bake again and cook for another 2-3 minutes .
You are ready to plate: spread the asparagus cream at the base of the plate , then place the egg cloud on top and arrange the sautéed asparagus all around .
Garnish with grated lemon zest , some fresh thyme leaves , and a grind of black pepper. Your egg and asparagus clouds are ready to be served !
Egg and asparagus clouds should be consumed as soon as they are ready.
Pan-fried asparagus can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
If you prefer, you can replace the Parmesan cheese in the asparagus cream with an even more flavorful cheese, such as pecorino or fresh goat cheese.
For a richer version, you can add some crispy speck or bacon to the eggs!

