name:
Pasta with Chicken and Broccoli
ingredients:
Penne Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Broccoli: 8.8oz(250 g)- to clean
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Parsley: to taste- minced
Chicken breast: 9oz(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.67cup(150 g)
White wine: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Chicken broth: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: to taste
Hot Paprika: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- grated

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pasta with chicken and broccoli is a complete, flavorful, and creamy first course inspired by the American Chicken and Broccoli Pasta recipe. In this recipe, the chicken, cut into strips and seasoned with spices and herbs, becomes the star along with the broccoli, which with their slightly bitter vegetal note balance the richness of the sauce. The result is an enveloping combination, thanks also to the presence of cream that binds all the ingredients together. Ideal to prepare for a family lunch or a dinner with friends when you want to serve something different from the usual, a good opportunity to break the routine of usual preparations. Get ready to discover a new recipe to add to your repertoire!
If you are looking for other American-inspired pasta dishes, also try:
Here, instead, you will find other delightful ideas of first courses with broccoli:

To prepare pasta with chicken and broccoli, first make the chicken broth following our recipe and keep it warm. Wash the broccoli, cut the florets , and set aside. Chop the parsley and the garlic .
Slice the fresh chili pepper and cut the chicken into strips . In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, add the butter , and melt over medium heat.
Add the chicken , the garlic , and the chili pepper .
Also add the dried thyme and paprika . Stir and sauté for 2-3 minutes over high heat.
Season with salt and pepper . Then add the flour and deglaze with white wine . Once the alcohol has evaporated, pour the chicken broth into the pan.
Add the cream and cook over low heat for 5 minutes. Meanwhile, cook the broccoli in salted boiling water for 2 minutes, then add the pasta and cook for the time indicated on the package.
Drain the pasta and broccoli directly into the sauce and turn off the heat. Add the chopped parsley and grated Parmesan cheese .
Also add the lemon zest and toss for a few minutes , just long enough to combine the ingredients. Serve and finish with a sprinkle of black pepper .
Finish with a drizzle of raw oil and a pinch of grated Parmesan cheese . Your pasta with chicken and broccoli is ready to enjoy .
Pasta with chicken and broccoli should be consumed freshly made, however, if you have leftovers, you can store it in the refrigerator in a closed container for up to 2 days. When you want to serve it again, you can reheat it in a pan, adding a drop of milk or broth to make the cream smooth and velvety again. If you want to plan ahead, you can prepare only the sauce, store it in the fridge for 1 day, and then cook pasta and broccoli at the last minute.
A handful of chopped walnuts, almond flakes, or toasted hazelnuts added at the end will give the dish a very pleasant crunchy texture. Add a couple of tablespoons of creamy cheese, such as robiola, stracchino, or crescenza, to the cream to make the sauce even more velvety.

