name:
Spelt and Strawberry Cake
ingredients:
Spelt flour: 1 ¾cup(200 g)- einkorn
Vegetable oil: 5tbsp(70 g)
Eggs: 1.9oz(55 g)- (about 1 at room temperature)
Brown sugar: 0.67cup(150 g)
Almond milk: 0.42cup(100 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp(8 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: 3tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Strawberries: 2cups(300 g)
Brown sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
How many strawberry cakes have we made? From the simplest, like the soft one to the richer ones like the mascarpone-filled one . But we had never baked a cake like this until today! The spelt and strawberry cake is a lactose-free dessert with a rustic flavor, perfect for breakfast or a snack! A healthy and nutritious alternative with brown sugar, almond milk, hazelnut pieces, and a really special flour. Rich in many properties, spelt flour is perfect for making desserts: with the addition of very few fats, you will be able to achieve an equally soft result! This cake is also very beautiful to look at; the strawberries will be the perfect decoration, giving sweetness and color to your dessert!
To prepare the spelt and strawberry cake, pour the sugar and the egg into a bowl . Mix with a hand whisk until you get a creamy mixture . While continuing to mix, add the oil in a thin stream .
When well incorporated, add the almond milk , continuing to mix . In another bowl, pour the spelt flour and add the baking powder .
Add the dry ingredients to the mixture just prepared and mix again with the whisk until you get a smooth and homogeneous mixture. Add the hazelnut pieces ,
a pinch of salt and mix well again with the whisk . Grease and flour a 9-inch springform pan, then pour the batter inside .
Clean the strawberries well, remove the leafy part, and cut into slices about 1/4 inch thick . Decorate the cake surface by arranging the strawberries in a wheel pattern
and sprinkle the surface with brown sugar . The cake is ready to be baked ! Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F in the middle rack for about 1 hour. Then take it out and let it cool .
Once cooled, remove the cake from the mold , decorate with powdered sugar , and serve !
You can store this cake for 2 days under a glass dome at room temperature.
Replace the hazelnut pieces with almond or pistachio pieces!

