name:
Strawberry and Cream Baskets
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1roll- (rectangular)
Strawberries: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.1cups(250 g)
Sugar: 2spoonfuls
Powdered sugar: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
This dessert is prepared in a handful of minutes: don't believe it? Try making the strawberry and cream baskets with us! We know, pastry is anything but simplicity and haste. But even we, from time to time, indulge in simple and immediate pleasures of the palate. So we thought of making even what is usually just a container of strawberries with whipped cream edible: why not unroll some puff pastry, shape it into a basket, and fill the molds with the most classic of combinations? The strawberry and cream baskets are truly a treat, perfect for the warm season and an even quicker alternative to already fast desserts, like the Quick and Easy Dessert or the 5-minute Cake !
To prepare the strawberry and cream baskets, start by unrolling the puff pastry , cut with a smooth knife obtaining 6 squares of 2.5x2.5 inches each (the leftover pieces can be used to make small Quick Tomato Puff Pastry Breadsticks ).

Place each puff pastry square in a muffin mold, previously lined with parchment paper. Prick the pastry with a fork and proceed to baking .
The baskets bake in a preheated ventilated oven at 356°F, for about 18-20 minutes (or until the puff pastry has taken on a nice golden color) . Remove the puff pastry baskets from the oven and let them cool completely. Meanwhile, clean the strawberries, slice them , and cut them into pieces .
Sprinkle them with granulated sugar , mix and store them in the refrigerator until ready to use . Put the very cold cream in a bowl and start whipping it with electric beaters ,
after 1 minute add the powdered sugar and whip to very stiff peaks . Put the whipped cream in a piping bag, you can also add the cream by spoonfuls into the baskets .
Fill the baskets with the whipped cream , using a star nozzle and decorate with the strawberries . Your strawberry and cream baskets are ready, enjoy them immediately !
Once the strawberry and cream baskets are ready, it would be ideal to consume them immediately.
The empty baskets can be stored for a few days in a cool place away from air, while the cream should be whipped at the moment as well as the strawberries cut and sugared before using them.
Freezing is not recommended.
The strawberry and cream baskets are very quick and tasty, but if you want to make them more indulgent, caramelize the strawberries for a few moments in a pan with a little sugar. Let them cool before placing them on the cream.
If you are a fan of the "cream, strawberries, and chocolate" trio, add the latter by grating it directly onto each basket!

