name:
Pasta alla vignarola
ingredients:
Pennoni rigati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Artichokes: 2
Fava beans: ½cup(100 g)- (already shelled)
Peas: 0.7cup(100 g)- (already shelled)
Lettuce: 1.8cups(100 g)
Jowls: 3.5oz(100 g)
White wine: 0.4glass(100 g)
Lemons: 1
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: to taste- (to grate)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Are you familiar with the Roman " Vignarola "? It is a traditional side dish made with spring vegetables, often enriched with guanciale... we've revisited it as a main course with the recipe for Vignarola Pasta! Broad beans, peas, artichokes, lettuce, and spring onion transform into a rustic and creamy sauce that pairs perfectly with a short pasta shape to create a dish that highlights the products of this season's vegetable garden. Prepare Vignarola Pasta for a family lunch or serve it as part of the Easter menu: you'll bring authentic and genuine traditional flavors to the table, in a fun and original format!
Here you will find other delicious main course recipes with spring vegetables:

To prepare the Vignarola Pasta, start by cutting the guanciale into half-inch strips . Clean the artichokes : remove the tougher outer leaves , then eliminate the stem and clean the base. Remove the tips with a clean cut .
Cut the artichokes in half and scrape away the central fuzz. Thinly slice the artichokes and immediately place them in a bowl with lemon juice to prevent browning .
Wash and cut the lettuce into strips . Shell the peas and the broad beans .
In a hot skillet, add the guanciale and sauté until crispy and golden , then transfer it to a strainer , keeping the rendered fat in the skillet.
In the same skillet, add the artichokes, sauté briefly, then deglaze with white wine and let the alcohol evaporate . At this point, add the broad beans .
Also add the peas , season with salt , cover with a lid , and cook for 10 minutes over medium heat.
Finally, add the lettuce and cook for a few minutes, just until wilted . Meanwhile, boil the penne rigate in salted boiling water .
Meanwhile, the vegetables will be cooked : take half of them and transfer them to a bowl , then blend with an immersion blender .
Pour the obtained cream into the skillet with the remaining half of the vegetables , then drain the pasta very al dente and add it here . Add a ladle of pasta cooking water and finish cooking .
Turn off the heat and finish with grated Pecorino cheese to taste and the reserved crispy guanciale . Mix and immediately serve your Vignarola Pasta !
It is recommended to consume the Vignarola Pasta immediately.

For a vegetarian variant, you can omit the guanciale and add a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil raw to enhance the flavor of the vegetables.
If you prefer, you can replace the lettuce with escarole or fresh spinach.
For an extra creamy touch, try adding a spoonful of ricotta during the final mixing!

