name:
Soft tart with white chocolate cream and strawberries
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Nut flour: ⅓cup(30 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(110 g)- at room temperature
Butter: ½cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 7tbsp(90 g)
Eggs: 1.9oz(55 g)- (approximately 1 medium)
Baking powder: 1.67tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
White chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
Egg yolks: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- (2 medium)
Sugar: 3 ¼tbsp(40 g)
Cornstarch: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Limoncello: 0.5oz(15 g)
Water: ½cup(120 g)
Limoncello: 0.7oz(20 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Strawberries: 3 ½cups(500 g)
White Chocolate drops: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Does the idea of preparing a layer cake intimidate you, but you still crave a dessert with cream and fruit? The answer is simple, and the clever mold will eliminate all obstacles in the kitchen! The soft tart with white chocolate cream and strawberries is a show-stopping dessert, yet it's very easy to make. A perfect cake for special occasions, to dedicate to the person you love most on an important day, such as Mother's Day! This soft tart will win everyone over at first glance, and at the first taste, you'll receive nothing but compliments! A truly indulgent dessert, enriched with plenty of Soft tart with white chocolate and the scent of limoncello, making it really fresh, perfect for any moment. Discover also our Soft tart with melon cream !
First, prepare the base of the soft tart. Pour the egg into a bowl and incorporate the pinch of salt and the sugar while working with electric whisks. Continue until the mixture is well whipped .
Add the softened butter in pieces and continue beating until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough. Now add the milk at room temperature
and mix everything together with the electric whisks . Sift both the all-purpose flour and the baking powder inside.
Mix everything well, turning the electric whisks on at low speed , and gradually add the hazelnut flour , continuing to work with the beater to incorporate it .
Butter and flour a clever tart mold of 11 inches and pour the batter inside, leveling the surface with a spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 30 minutes on the middle shelf. Once cooked, take it out and let it cool.
While the tart bakes in the oven, prepare the white chocolate cream. Coarsely chop the white chocolate . Heat the milk . Meanwhile, in a bowl, combine the yolks with the sugar and stir with a hand whisk .
Add the cornstarch and mix . Pour half of the hot milk into the egg mixture . Stir well with a whisk to avoid lumps and add the remaining milk.
Transfer the mixture back into the saucepan and bring to a boil, stirring constantly with a hand whisk, until the cream thickens . Turn off the heat and add the chopped white chocolate , stirring well until the chocolate is completely melted.
Add the limoncello , stir again until it's completely incorporated . Transfer to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap in contact with the surface, and let it cool first at room temperature, then in the refrigerator. Meanwhile, prepare the syrup: in a saucepan, pour the water and sugar and heat on the stove until it's completely dissolved.
Turn off the heat and add the limoncello . When all the bases are cold, take the soft tart and soak it with the syrup just prepared using a kitchen brush .
Take the cream and work it with a spatula until it is smooth . Transfer it inside the tart and level with a spatula .
Wash the strawberries well, remove the stem, and slice them . Use them to decorate the tart , garnish with chocolate chips and mint leaves . The soft tart with white chocolate cream and strawberries is ready: serve it or store it in the fridge.
The soft tart with white chocolate cream and strawberries can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
If you wish, you can glaze the surface of your soft tart with cold gelatin or jam.

