name:
Asparagus with White Beans and Hollandaise Sauce
ingredients:
Asparagus: 0.9lb(400 g)- to clean
White asparagus: 0.9lb(400 g)- to clean
White beans: 1 ⅓cup(240 g)- precooked
Marjoram: to taste
Wild fennel: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Water: 1.4oz(40 g)
White wine vinegar: 2tsp(10 g)
Ground white pepper: 10
Egg yolks: 4
Butter: 250- at room temperature
Lemon juice: 2 ¾tbsp(40 g)
Hazelnuts: ½cup(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Asparagus with white beans and hollandaise sauce is a main course designed for those looking for an original and elegant idea. The strong flavor of grilled asparagus blends with the delicate taste of beans, flavored with marjoram and fennel. What makes the dish truly special is the Hollandaise sauce , smooth and glossy, capable of enveloping all the ingredients with its creaminess. Finally, toasted hazelnuts add a pleasant crunchy note. The result is a colorful and structured main dish, where each element finds its space without overpowering the other, bringing the colors and scents of spring to the table. Asparagus with white beans and hollandaise sauce is perfect for a light yet sophisticated lunch or when you want to serve something that breaks the usual routine!
If you love asparagus recipes, also try:
To prepare the asparagus with white beans and hollandaise sauce, first pour water, vinegar and crushed white pepper into a saucepan. Reduce by one-third, let cool, strain through a fine mesh strainer and set aside, as it will be used later to prepare the hollandaise sauce.
Now focus on cleaning the asparagus. Remove the woody ends from both white and green asparagus . Blanch for 5 minutes , drain and transfer to a bowl. Season with salt and oil.
Place them on a hot grill , grill on all sides and set aside. Quickly toast the hazelnuts in a non-stick pan and chop them coarsely.
In a bowl, place the beans, add wild fennel and marjoram . Season with salt , oil and mix.
Continue preparing the hollandaise sauce. In the saucepan with the reduction, add the egg yolks . Mash them and heat over very low flame, stirring continuously with a whisk, making sure not to neglect the edges . Do not exceed 140 °F. Remove from heat and add the butter little by little , stirring continuously. You should achieve a smooth and glossy mixture.
At this point, while continuing to stir, add the lemon juice and the salt . The hollandaise sauce is ready .
You can plate the dish by placing the beans on the bottom , continue with the asparagus and cover with a spoonful of hollandaise sauce .
Finish with the toasted hazelnuts and some marjoram leaves . Your asparagus with white beans and hollandaise sauce is ready to be enjoyed !
Asparagus with white beans and hollandaise sauce is a dish that should be consumed as soon as it is prepared. However, you can store the individual components separately. The seasoned asparagus and beans can be stored in the refrigerator in a closed container for up to 2 days. The hollandaise sauce, on the other hand, is very delicate and tends to separate and lose consistency, so our advice is to always prepare it at the moment.
Instead of white beans, you can use other types of beans or chickpeas. If you like more intense flavors, you can add a sprinkle of smoked paprika to the hollandaise sauce.

