name:
Sweet Rice and Ricotta Cake
ingredients:
Arborio rice: ½cup(100 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Water: 2.1cups(500 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 4
Candied: 1.8oz(50 g)
Orange peel: 1
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cinnamon sticks: 2
Candied orange: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The sweet rice and ricotta cake is a delicious dessert without flour, perfect for those who love simple and genuine sweets that smell like home! The aroma of orange zest and cinnamon pairs perfectly with the delicacy of ricotta, giving this rice cake a unique, soft, and compact texture. The recipe includes adding candied fruit, but if you don't like them, you can easily omit them or replace them with chocolate chips! Perfect to enjoy at any time of the day, either as a dessert or as a tasty snack, the sweet rice and ricotta cake is also ideal for concluding the Easter lunch or enriching the Easter Monday picnic.
If you love rice desserts, try also:

To prepare the sweet rice and ricotta cake, first pour the water and rice into a pot , turn on the heat, and cook for about 25 minutes until it has absorbed all the liquid. Once cooked, transfer the rice to a bowl and let it cool completely .
In the meantime, pour the eggs and sugar into a bowl , then add the cinnamon and vanilla extract . Whisk until the mixture changes color; it shouldn't be overly airy.
Add the ricotta , grated orange zest , a pinch of salt, and mix again with the beaters until you have a homogeneous mixture.
Finally, add the rice and candied fruit , and stir to incorporate them evenly .
Pour the mixture into a 9-inch springform pan lined with parchment paper , ensuring that the paper extends beyond the pan's height as the cake will tend to rise during baking. Level the surface and bake in a static oven at 338°F for about 80 minutes .
After the cooking time, remove from the oven and let cool, then remove the cake from the pan and garnish with candied orange and cinnamon sticks . Your sweet rice and ricotta cake is ready to be served !
The sweet rice and ricotta cake can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap, for 3-4 days.
If you do not like candied fruit, you can replace them with the same amount of chocolate chips, raisins soaked in rum or vin santo, or chopped nuts such as almonds or walnuts.

