name:
Cherry Bavarois
ingredients:
Cherries: 2cups(300 g)- whole
Gelatin in sheets: 0.5oz(12 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.6cup(150 g)
Whole milk: 0.6cup(150 g)
Sugar: 5tbsp(60 g)
Egg yolks: 2oz(55 g)- (about 3)
Lemon juice: ½
Vanilla bean: 1
Cherries: ½cup(100 g)- whole
Sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 5 hours of chilling in the fridge

instructions:
The Bavarian cream is a traditional French dessert spoon. Characterized by a base of custard and cream, it lends itself to the most succulent variations: and we, who never back down from these sweet delights, today offer you our cherry Bavarian creams, delightful single servings accompanied by a tasty coulis made with these pulpy maroon summer fruits. A refined way to tantalize the most demanding palates!
Don't miss these Bavarian cream recipes as well:

To make the cherry Bavarian creams, first, soak the gelatin in cold water for about ten minutes . Then pour the milk with the seeds and the vanilla bean into a saucepan , and bring it to just below boiling. Meanwhile, you can pour the egg yolks into a bowl with the sugar ,
stir with a spatula to get a smooth mixture . Strain the now hot milk and pour it over the yolks , stirring everything with the spatula.
Return to the heat, cooking until it reaches a temperature of 180°F . Remove from heat, add the gently squeezed gelatin , stir, and strain again into a bowl. Cool the cream by placing its base on another bowl containing cold water and ice .
Pit the cherries and blend them with the lemon juice (11-12).
Strain the obtained juice with a sieve to remove the skin residues . Pour the well-chilled liquid cream into a bowl .
Whip the cream with electric beaters and add it to the cream stirring with the spatula .
Incorporate the strained cherry juice , stir , and pour it into 4 Bavarian cream molds with a capacity of approximately 5 ounces . Chill in the fridge for at least five hours.
For the decoration, make a warm coulis: pit 100 g of cherries and split them in two with your hands, placing them in a saucepan with the sugar and lemon juice .
Cook for a few moments until the cherries have released their juice . Drain the cherries, keeping the liquid aside in a small bowl, and let everything cool down . Unmold the Bavarian creams by dipping the base in a bowl containing warm water (also use a small knife to detach the edge if necessary).
Invert the Bavarian creams onto the plates (28-29). Decorate with the coulis and serve your cherry Bavarian creams immediately.
The mini Bavarian creams keep in the refrigerator for 4 days. Freezing is not recommended.
To flavor the Bavarian cream, you can use lemon zest as an alternative to the vanilla pod. We suggest using steel molds for easier unmolding of the Bavarian creams.

