name:
Strawberry and Chocolate Muffins
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Whole milk: 2cups(150 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 4
Dark chocolate: 2oz(60 g)
Baking powder: 2.8tsp(8 g)
Strawberries: 1.7cups(250 g)
Greek yogurt: 2.1cups(500 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(180 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste
Strawberries: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 12
Cost: Average

instructions:
We already knew that strawberries and chocolate have always been an inseparable pair, as evidenced by the famous cases of the Chocolate and strawberry cake , Chocolate and Strawberry Tart , and even Strawberry and Chocolate Trifle . But what's missing? We'll tell you: strawberry and chocolate muffins! The soft chocolate batter hides tender strawberry pieces that refresh your mouth with every bite. What makes these muffins truly sublime, however, is undoubtedly the pleasantly tangy frosting. With strawberry and chocolate muffins, you can bring something to the breakfast table, or why not, the snack basket, that will delight your loved ones. So turn on the oven, let’s bake those strawberry and chocolate muffins right away!
To prepare the strawberry and chocolate muffins, let's start with the strawberries. After quickly rinsing them, cut them into cubes, setting aside 12 slices . Then proceed with the batter, but first, leave the cold ingredients out of the fridge. In the bowl of a stand mixer, place the butter in pieces . Start the whisk at medium-low speed and let it work for a few minutes. Then, slowly add the sugar, a little at a time
and let it incorporate before adding and doing the same with the eggs . Once the eggs are incorporated, move on to the flour and baking powder , already sifted and incorporated slowly.
Mix everything by pouring in the milk in a thin stream and finally the melted and cooled chocolate . The batter is ready .
Then gently fold in the strawberry pieces . Transfer the mixture to a pastry bag and fill 12 cupcake liners placed in a specific baking tray . Now place the 12 strawberry slices
and proceed with baking . The muffins bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 30 minutes . Once cooked, let them cool, and in the meantime, prepare the frosting. In a bowl, pour the Greek yogurt and powdered sugar ,
also add the cream and beat with electric whisks for a few minutes until you get a creamy and firm consistency . Transfer to a pastry bag fitted with a 3/8 inch star nozzle .
Use the freshly prepared frosting to decorate your muffins , sprinkle with cocoa powder , and garnish with 1/4 strawberry .
Strawberry muffins can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Alternatively, they can be kept at room temperature and decorated just before serving.
For an extra touch, add a pinch of cinnamon to the batter!

