name:
Herb Ravioli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Eggs: 4
Aromatic herbs: to taste- parsley, chives, wild fennel, mint, basil, marjoram
Salt: to taste
Peas: 1 ½cup(300 g)- (to clean)
Snap peas: 200- (to clean)
Artichokes: 2- (to clean)
Spring onions: 3- (to clean)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2cups(200 g)- to be grated
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the dough in the refrigerator (20 min.)

instructions:
Herb ravioli are a first course that tells the story of spring both visually and tastefully. The fresh egg pasta embraces a delicate cream based on seasonal vegetables, but contrary to what one might think, the aromatic herbs do not enrich the filling but the dough! When rolling out the dough, in fact, whole leaves of fresh herbs are added to the mixture to create a charming aesthetic pattern, in addition to imparting a pleasant herbal note. To dress these delicious herb ravioli, we chose a silky and enveloping Parmesan sauce that enhances the flavors without overpowering them. Ideal for a special occasion, such as Easter lunch, herb ravioli will be even more appreciated because they are made entirely with your own hands!
Also discover these delicious ravioli recipes:

To prepare the ravioli with herbs in the dough, first, place the flour in a mound and pour the beaten eggs into the center . Gradually incorporate the flour with a fork , then continue with a dough scraper .
Knead with your hands until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough. Wrap it in cling film and let it rest in the refrigerator for 20 minutes. Now move on to preparing the filling: clean and finely slice the spring onions .
Cut the snow peas into diamond shapes and shell the fresh peas. Proceed to clean the artichokes : remove the tougher outer leaves , then cut off the tips with a sharp cut .
Clean the base of the stem, then cut the artichokes in half and remove the inner choke . Finally, slice them . As you clean them, immerse them in acidulated water .
In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil, add the spring onion and the snow peas . Cook over medium-high heat for a few minutes. Meanwhile, blanch the artichokes for 3-4 minutes .
Add the artichokes to the pan . In the same water, blanch the peas and add them to the other vegetables .
Season with salt and pepper and cook for another 10 minutes. Transfer everything to a blender and blend until you get a creamy and homogeneous mixture . Transfer the filling to a piping bag and set aside.
After the resting time, take the dough and divide it into 2 parts . With a pasta machine, roll out 2 sheets about 1/16 inch thick, starting from the first roller to the last . Arrange the sprigs of aromatic herbs on the first sheet .
Spray with water and cover with the second sheet . Pass it through the pasta machine again , then cut it in half.
On one of the sheets, squeeze out dollops of filling about 1 1/2 inches apart , then cover with the other sheet . Use the back of a 1 1/2 inch diameter pasta cutter to remove air with circular motions .
Cut out the ravioli with the pasta cutter and set aside. You will get about 20 ravioli. Now move on to the cheese sauce: pour the cream and Parmesan cheese into a small saucepan , then melt over very low heat, stirring continuously with a spoon or whisk, for 5 minutes.
Once the cheese has melted, blend for a few seconds with an immersion blender to obtain a smooth and creamy mixture . Cook the ravioli in salted boiling water for about 3 minutes . Drain the ravioli directly into a pan with a drizzle of oil .
Add a ladle of cooking water and stir. Plate by spreading the cheese cream at the bottom of the plate, then place the ravioli on top . Garnish with a few leaves of marjoram and wild fennel. Your herb-infused dough ravioli are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the herb ravioli as soon as they are ready.
If you wish, you can freeze them raw; then cook them directly without defrosting in salted boiling water, extending the cooking time slightly.
You can customize this recipe in many ways! If you don't have all the vegetables provided for the filling, or they are not in season, you can replace them with Swiss chard, fresh spinach, or grated zucchini briefly sautéed in a pan.
The mix of aromatic herbs can also change according to your taste.

