name:
Fresh Cherry Tart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- cold
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Eggs: 2oz(56 g)- (1 small)
Baking powder: 1.3tsp(4 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cherries: 21- (about 250 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Lemon peel: ½
Almond slices: 0.4oz(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + 1 h of rest for the pastry

instructions:
Round and red, cherries are the fruits of late spring, and we love using them to create many excellent desserts. We embedded them in puff pastry to make the cherry roll , and today to prepare this fresh cherry tart, we enclosed them one by one in small disks of shortcrust pastry. Placing them side by side in a mold, just like for the sweet Danube , thanks to the yeast in the dough, they will rise and merge to create a tart that's beautiful to look at and delicious to eat. Bringing it to the table, who knows how many of your guests will discover what is hidden inside, but with the first slice, everyone will discover the secret ingredient!
To prepare the fresh cherry tart, the first thing to do is make the shortcrust pastry. In a mixer bowl, add flour, lemon zest , cubed butter , and powdered sugar .
Then add the yeast , salt , and the slightly beaten egg .
Run the mixer until you obtain a homogeneous consistency , then transfer it to a work surface and knead quickly, just enough to compact the pastry . Wrap the obtained dough in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for an hour.
In the meantime, pit the cherries and transfer them to a bowl. Add the sugar , lemon zest , and mix well.
Cover with plastic wrap and let it macerate until the pastry is ready. At this point, retrieve the dough from the fridge and roll it out using a little flour : you should achieve a thickness of about 0.16 inches .
Using a 2.75-inch cookie cutter, cut out a disk of pastry . Take a cherry (remember to save the maceration juice, as it will be needed later) and place it in the center of the disk . Lift the edges to enclose it inside .
and work with your hands to obtain a spherical shape . Repeat the operation until you run out of cherries; you can re-knead the pastry scraps and roll them out again before cutting. Once you have made the balls , place them inside a mold that is 8 inches at the top and 7 inches at the base.
Once you have filled the entire mold , brush the tart with the maceration juice and garnish with almond flakes .
When you have spread them across the surface , bake the fresh cherry tart in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 30 minutes on the middle shelf. Once baked , let it cool before removing from the mold and serving it .
The fresh cherry tart can be kept for 2-3 days under a glass dome. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of almond flakes, you can use other nuts.
The shortcrust pastry can be flavored with vanilla bean seeds instead of lemon zest.

