name:
Cherry Cake
ingredients:
Cherries: 2 ½cups(400 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Eggs: 4.2oz(120 g)- (approximately 2 medium)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Baking powder: 2.4tsp(10 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Powdered sugar: to taste
Sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
The cherry cake features one of the most anticipated and requested summer fruits of the season. Juicy and with a purplish-red color, they are perfect for preparing many desserts, such as the Black Forest cake , the cherry puff pastry swirl , or the fresher cherry cheesecake . In this recipe, we reveal how to prepare a simple cherry cake, ideal for a spring or summer snack or for breakfast. A genuine and timeless recipe, with a soft and tasty batter that encloses a delectable cherry filling: just the cherries alone are enough to make this delight appealing. The wait is over: the market stalls are filled with the bright and lively red of this delicious fleshy fruit, and one cherry recipe will lead to another! Here are other cherry desserts to try:
To prepare the cherry cake, first wash the cherries well. Then remove the stem, cut them in half , and extract the pit inside . Continue this process until they are all done. Begin with the batter: start beating the eggs with the sugar , using an electric mixer .
Add the grated lemon zest and continue beating until you obtain a light and frothy mixture . Lower the speed and incorporate part of the flour .
Gradually add the remaining flour and continue beating with the mixer until it's well absorbed. Now pour in the milk and keep mixing .
Incorporate the oil and baking powder and beat until you obtain a homogeneous mixture .
Butter and flour a 8-inch springform pan. Pour a layer of batter inside and add some cherries on top . Cover with more batter .
Level with a spoon to cover all the cherries well and add another layer of cherries . Pour the remaining batter on top .
Smooth it out well with a spoon and finish with the remaining cherries . Sprinkle with granulated sugar and bake in a static preheated oven at 340°F for about 60 minutes.
Remove the cake from the oven and let it cool. Then remove it from the mold and serve it .
You can store the cherry cake under a glass dome. If it's very hot, you can keep it in the refrigerator; otherwise, it can be stored at room temperature.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can flavor the cake with vanilla. You can put the cherries inside the mixture and pour it into the baking tin for an upside-down cake.

