name:
Deruny
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.5lbs(680 g)
Eggs: 1
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Chives: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Sour cream: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Today we explore delightful potato pancakes typical of traditional Ukrainian cuisine called deruny. This enticing appetizer was once prepared for special occasions, like parties and celebrations, but today it is still much appreciated for its timeless taste. Deruny are simple and quick pancakes made with only 3 ingredients: grated potatoes, flour, and eggs. Some variations include onion, which adds an even richer flavor. These delicious pancakes are often served with sour cream (notoriously used in Ukrainian cuisine), apple sauce, or tomato sauce. Sour cream is particularly loved for its pleasantly tangy and fresh taste, which pairs perfectly with these special crispy potato pancakes . An aromatic touch is given by chives, to be dosed according to your taste. Deruny are a very beloved and significant dish in Ukrainian culture: they represent comfort food, like Syrniki , typical of homemade cuisine, whose recipe is passed down from generation to generation. Discover our version here!
Don't miss these potato pancake recipes as well:
To prepare the deruny, peel the potatoes , then grate them and drain them in a colander , pressing with a spoon to remove any excess vegetable water.
In a bowl, crack the egg and add the flour , mix with a fork to obtain a homogeneous mixture , then add salt .
Add the obtained batter to the grated potatoes . Mix again to combine . Heat a pan well and then pour about half an inch of vegetable oil .
Scoop a tablespoon of the mixture , then immerse it in the hot oil and slightly flatten the surface with the back of the spoon , fry on one side until golden brown .
Turn them over and continue frying on the other side until golden brown, just a few minutes will suffice . Drain the pancakes on a tray lined with absorbent paper and serve the deruny immediately, sprinkling them with chopped chives and accompanying them with sour cream .
Consume the deruny immediately to preserve their crunchiness.
If you love stronger flavors, you can also add finely sliced onion to the mixture.

