name:
Spicy Chicken Noodles
ingredients:
Noodles: 7oz(200 g)- soft wheat
Verza (savoy cabbage): 1cup(100 g)
Zucchini: 1
Carrots: 2
Leeks: 1
Red peppers: 1
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh ginger: 1oz(30 g)
Soy sauce: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Chicken: 8.8oz(250 g)- (slices)
Panko: 2cups(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.6cup(80 g)
Eggs: 2
Vegetable oil: to taste- (for frying)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you are thinking about ordering from the Chinese restaurant around the corner, hold on a minute because in this recipe we will show you how to make excellent spicy chicken noodles right in your kitchen! All you need is a wok to stir-fry the vegetables so they stay nice and crispy… as for the chicken, you can't miss the Homemade Panko , the typical breadcrumb that ensures a dry and airy fry. Soy sauce, fresh ginger, and chili will enrich the flavor of the spicy chicken noodles with a pungent and slightly sweet and sour note that will remind you of those from your favorite Chinese restaurant!
Also try these noodle recipes:
Discover more delicious Asian recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the spicy chicken noodles, first clean and cut the vegetables: slice the leek into rounds , then cut the bell pepper and zucchini into strips.
Slice the carrot lengthwise and then thinly slice it diagonally , then cut the cabbage into strips and the chili into rounds .
Finally, mince the garlic . Heat the vegetable oil in a wok, then add the garlic , chili, and leek .
Add the cabbage, bell pepper , carrots , and zucchinis .
Mix well, season with two-thirds of the soy sauce , and stir-fry everything over high heat for about 8 minutes: this way, the vegetables will stay crispy .
Now prepare the chicken: coat the chicken slices first with flour , then with beaten eggs , and finally with panko .
Heat the vegetable oil to 338°F, immerse the breaded slices , and fry for 3-4 minutes until golden. Drain and set aside. Meanwhile, bring a pot of water to a boil and blanch the noodles for one minute .
Transfer the noodles to the wok , grate the fresh ginger , and add the remaining soy sauce .
Stir-fry everything for a minute . At this point, cut the crispy chicken into slices and serve it with your spicy noodles !
Spicy chicken noodles can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
You can use the type of noodles you prefer, even rice or soy noodles! Always follow the cooking instructions on the package.

