name:
Sugar-Free Granola
ingredients:
Rolled oats: 1.4cups(120 g)
Shredded coconut: 0.6cup(50 g)
Pumpkin seeds: 1 ½tbsp(15 g)
Flax seed: 2tbsp(15 g)
Sunflower seeds: 1 ½tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Almonds: 0.9oz(25 g)- sliced
Walnut kernels: 0.6cup(55 g)
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)
Maple syrup: 2tbsp(30 g)
Coconut oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Dates: 10
Peanut butter: 0.3cup(80 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Dark chocolate: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
What's better for breakfast than homemade granola ? An energetic and substantial mix, try it even in this variant: sugar-free granola. Instead of sugar, dates and maple syrup, natural sweeteners, are used. Our sugar-free granola is made with oats (like Granola in a pan ), nuts, coconut flour, peanut butter, and chocolate chips (strictly dark!). A real boost to start your day on the right foot. Enjoy it in milk or in its best version: with our homemade yogurt and fresh fruit, even for a snack! The granola recipe is very easy to make, so we recommend preparing plenty because it keeps well but finishes quickly! Discover another delicious version, the chocolate granola !
To prepare the sugar-free granola, first, pour the oats and shredded coconut into a bowl . Add the mixed seeds and sliced almonds .
Add the walnuts , a pinch of salt, and mix well . Take the dates, cut them in half, and remove the pit .
Transfer the dates to a blender , add the coconut oil and water .
Add the peanut butter and maple syrup . Then pour in the vanilla extract .
Blend everything until you get a coarse cream ; add it to the bowl with the oat and coconut mixture and mix by hand .
You should get a homogeneous mixture and crumble it onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Don't worry if some pieces are larger than others .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 20-25 minutes, turning halfway through. Then remove from the oven and let cool. Meanwhile, coarsely chop the dark chocolate , then add it to the granola .
The sugar-free granola is ready ; you can enjoy it in milk, on its own , or to enrich yogurt .
The granola can be stored in an airtight jar for a week.
You can use the same amount of agave syrup instead of maple syrup.

