name:
Blueberry Swirls
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)- W 260
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(115 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
Butter: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)
Whole milk: 0.42cup(100 g)
Water: 0.42cup(100 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.7oz(20 g)
Blueberry jam: ½cup(150 g)
Cream cheese: 0.4cup(100 g)
Powdered sugar: ¼cup(30 g)
Whole milk: 0.4cup(100 g)
Lemon peel: ½

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 3 hours of rising

instructions:
You know the most famous rolls, the Cinnamon rolls of course? If you love them like we do, try these blueberry swirls! They are a really soft leavened sweet with a delicious blueberry jam filling and are prepared almost like cinnamon rolls! These cute sweet spirals are an authentic delight for the palate, a perfect combination of the softness of the leavened dough and the explosion of flavor of the fruit jam. Enjoy the swirls after garnishing them with the suggested frosting, for breakfast or a snack: share them with your family or with those you love! Let yourself be seduced by these vortices of sweetness and also try other tasty swirl recipes:
To prepare the blueberry swirls, pour the milk and water into a small saucepan , heat until it reaches 95°F , and, off the heat, add the crumbled yeast .
Stir to dissolve it , then add the eggs and whisk to combine the mixture .
In the bowl of the stand mixer, pour the flour, sugar , and salt . Turn on the hook at low speed 1 -1.5 and add the vanilla. Pour in the still warm mix .
Incorporate the butter and let the hook work for 3-4 minutes until the dough is well combined . Transfer the mixture to a lightly floured work surface .
Knead until the dough is smooth, shape it into a loaf , and place it in a bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise in the oven turned off with the light on for about 2 hours. It should double in volume .
Roll out the dough on a lightly floured work surface to obtain a rectangle of about 20 x 14 inches . Spread the jam and roll the dough from the long side .
Divide in half and place on a tray with plastic wrap, chill in the fridge for half an hour. Cut the two rolls to obtain 12 swirls , place them on a 11 x 8 inch baking tray lined with parchment paper , cover with plastic wrap and let them rise for an hour. Bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for about 20 minutes.
Remove the swirls from the oven and let them cool down . Meanwhile, prepare the frosting: in a bowl, pour the cheese, sugar , and lemon zest .
Mix all the ingredients together using a whisk and slowly add the milk until you get a smooth consistency. Drizzle the blueberry swirls with the glaze and serve.
Once cooked, the swirls can be stored at room temperature (or in the refrigerator) for 1-2 days at most: in this case, it would be advisable not to glaze them in advance.
You can garnish the swirls with a water glaze: in a bowl, pour 7 oz of powdered sugar and slowly add water at room temperature, just enough to obtain a smooth glaze without lumps.

