name:
Spanakopitakia (Greek recipe)
ingredients:
Phyllo dough: 9oz(250 g)
Spinach: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Feta cheese: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
Fresh scallion: 3oz(80 g)
Eggs: 1
Dill: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
If we say Greece, what comes to mind? Sea, sun, beaches... and great food! Greek cuisine is indeed one of the most loved by Italians because it shares Mediterranean ingredients with us, simple recipes, and amazing flavors. Moussaka , Pork Souvlaki , Greek salad , Baklava , are just a few of the most famous dishes that most of you will have tasted: today we want to add a new element to enrich your Hellenic menus, spanakopitakia! The single-serving version of Spanakopita , the typical Greek savory pie made with phyllo dough stuffed with feta and spinach. An ideal format to enjoy on the go as a snack or lunch substitute, or to serve as a hearty appetizer. These crispy triangles will win you and your friends over with their authentic flavor... you’ll feel like you’re on vacation with the first bite of spanakopitakia!
Do you like the combination of feta and spinach? Try it also in a main course version with the recipe for baked pasta with feta and spinach !
To prepare the spanakopitakia, first clean the vegetables: rinse the scallions, trim the base, remove the outer layer , and slice them into rings . Then finely chop the dill and rinse the spinach under running water.
Heat the oil in a pan, add the scallions and spinach , cover with a lid , and cook over medium heat for 10 minutes.
When the spinach is cooked, transfer it to a strainer placed over a bowl and press with a spatula to release excess water . At this point, transfer the spinach to a cutting board and chop finely with a knife .
Pour the chopped spinach into a bowl, add the crumbled feta by hand , an egg , and the chopped dill .
Add pepper and stir to mix the ingredients well . Preheat the oven to 355°F. Take the phyllo dough and separate it to obtain two sheets, each consisting of 3 layers of dough .
Divide each of these sheets into 4 strips about 4 inches wide, which will then have a rectangular shape . Melt the butter in a saucepan and brush the surface of each rectangle with the melted butter . Take a spoonful of the spinach mixture and place it at the base of one of the rectangles ,
then fold the dough over the filling, aligning the base with one of the sides to form a triangle ; continue folding the dough this way until you reach the end of the rectangle . Gently press to seal the parcel and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, with the opening facing down.
Brush the parcels with the beaten egg and bake in a preheated oven at 355°F for about 20 minutes until they turn golden brown . Your spanakopitakia are ready to be enjoyed !
We recommend consuming the spanakopitakia immediately to prevent them from losing their crispness. If necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to one day and reheat them in the oven before serving.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer to add a crunchy note to the filling, you can add toasted pine nuts. For a sweet touch, try adding raisins.
Serve your spanakopitakia with tzatziki sauce, a typical Greek recipe made with yogurt, garlic, and cucumbers!

