name:
Savory Pancakes
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(25 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Eggs: 2
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 2tsp(6 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 14 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Savory pancakes are an alternative version of the classic American pancakes! No maple syrup for these pancakes , what makes them so original is definitely the addition of grated Parmesan in the batter. A perfect dish to serve as a delicious appetizer or to impress your guests during a Sunday brunch! You can enjoy our savory pancakes plain, or you can pair them with meats, like bacon, and cheeses, preferably fresh, or even sautéed or salad vegetables! Along with the Croque monsieur and classic poached eggs , savory pancakes are also a great alternative to the many sweet recipes usually offered during brunch! Discover with us how easy they are to make and try these variations as well:
To make the savory pancakes, first melt the butter in a small pot over low heat or in the microwave. Meanwhile, separate the egg yolks from the whites. In the bowl with the yolks, pour the cooled butter , add the milk gradually and mix . At this point, add the salt, pepper, and flour .
Also incorporate the sifted baking powder and the grated cheese . Mix until you get a smooth and homogeneous batter .
Beat the egg whites to stiff peaks with an electric mixer , then gently fold them into the yolk mixture a little at a time with an upward motion . Lightly butter a non-stick pan. Pour a not full ladle of batter .
Cook the pancake on one side over low heat until the first bubbles form on the surface . Flip the pancake with a spatula and finish cooking for one minute on the other side . Continue this way until all the batter is used. The savory pancakes are ready .
The cooked savory pancakes can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to two days. We recommend using the batter immediately.
To add an extra touch to the savory pancakes, you can partially replace the grated cheese with semi-aged Pecorino, also grated.

