name:
Baci di Frau with double pistachio and Maldon salt
ingredients:
Butter: 0.9cup(200 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Maldon salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Egg yolks: (20 g)
Pistachio flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
White chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)
Pistachio cream: 6.8tbsp(100 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Maldon salt: ½tsp(2 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 25 pieces
Cost: High
Note + 2 hours of resting

instructions:
Frau's kisses with double pistachio and Maldon salt are delightful shortbread cookies, perfect for enjoying at tea time or to enrich a homemade pastries assortment. Inspired by the traditional lady's kisses , these sweets are filled with a delicious pistachio-flavored ganache, the star of the recipe. You'll also find pistachio flour in the dough, enhancing this aromatic nut to the fullest. Try our recipe and also experiment with other variants of these cookies:

To prepare Frau's kisses, start with the dough: cut the room-temperature butter into chunks . Add the sugar and the Maldon salt .
Knead to form a dough ball . Incorporate the egg yolk and also add the pistachio flour .
Finally, add the all-purpose flour , knead to form a smooth dough ball , wrap it in plastic wrap , and let it rest in the fridge for 2 hours.
Retrieve the dough and divide it in half , roll one half to form a stick .
From this, cut pieces about 3/4 inch long , form them into balls and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Bake in a preheated static oven at 330°F for 20 minutes. Once baked, take them out of the oven and let them cool .
Now prepare the pistachio ganache: in a bowl, mix the hot melted chocolate, butter , and Maldon salt , stir to dissolve the butter, then add the pistachio cream .
Mix again to obtain a smooth cream and transfer it to a piping bag. Take a cookie, squeeze the cream on top .
Close with another cookie , Frau's kisses are ready to be served .
Frau's kisses without filling can be stored for 1 week in a cool place, closed in a tin box. Alternatively, you can freeze them already assembled for 1 month. If you want to freeze the dough, we recommend forming the balls, letting them solidify in the freezer, and transferring them to a bag. In this case, we do not recommend exceeding 2 months.
You can also fill the kisses simply with dark chocolate: just take 9 oz of 70% dark chocolate, melted at 95°F, and mix with 1 teaspoon of Maldon salt.

