name:
Genoese minestrone
ingredients:
Ditalini: 6.3oz(180 g)
Borlotti beans: ½cup(100 g)
Green beans: 0.67cup(100 g)
Carrots: 1
Zucchini: 1- large
Potatoes: 1
Chard: 1- head
Celery: 1rib
Onions: ½
Cherry tomatoes: 6
Genoese pesto (Basil sauce): 2spoonfuls
Garlic: 1clove
Vegetable broth: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average
Note + the preparation time of the vegetable broth

instructions:
To make Genoese minestrone, start by preparing the Vegetable broth , then proceed with cleaning the vegetables: clean and dice the celery , carrot , and onion into brunoise.
Cut the zucchini and potato into 1/2-inch cubes , then halve the cherry tomatoes .
Trim and slice the green beans into diamond shapes , then shell the fresh beans and collect them in a bowl . Finally, roughly cut the Swiss chard into strips .
Heat a drizzle of oil in a saucepan, then add the chopped onion , carrot, and celery . Add the crushed garlic clove and let it stew for a few minutes.
Add the potato , beans , and zucchini .
Add the green beans , then salt and pepper. Stir and let it stew for another couple of minutes.
At this point, add the cherry tomatoes and Swiss chard , then cover with the vegetable broth .
Cook with the lid on for about 30 minutes, over low heat . After this time, pour in the pasta and remove the garlic .
Stir and add more broth if necessary , then cover again until the pasta is cooked . Adjust the salt and pepper if necessary.
Finish the dishes with a generous tablespoon of pesto , garnish with a few basil leaves, and dress with a drizzle of raw oil . Your Genoese minestrone is ready to be served !
Genoese minestrone can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, in an airtight container. You can serve it hot, warm, or at room temperature.
It can be frozen without the pasta if you have used all fresh ingredients.
You can replace fresh beans with dry ones, previously soaked overnight.
To further flavor the Genoese minestrone, you can add a piece of Parmesan rind halfway through cooking, after carefully washing and scraping it.
If you prefer a creamier consistency, you can extend the cooking time and mash some of the vegetables with a fork.

