name:
Pan-Seared Swordfish
ingredients:
Swordfish: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Lemon juice: 4tbsp(60 g)
Lemon peel: to taste
Wild fennel: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + marinating time in the fridge (at least 1 hour)

instructions:
The swordfish can be cooked in many ways, and the one we propose here is perhaps the simplest of all: pan-seared swordfish ! Lemon, garlic, extra virgin olive oil, and wild fennel: just a few ingredients to savor the pure taste of the fish, enhancing its Mediterranean character. But what is the secret to not drying it out during cooking? Follow our recipe, and you'll discover how to achieve tender and juicy swordfish.
Very easy to prepare , pan-seared swordfish is the main course ideal for a healthy, light, and nutritious dinner. If you love seafood cuisine, we are sure it will become one of your go-to dishes!
Don't miss these tasty swordfish recipes as well:
To prepare the pan-seared swordfish, start by placing the swordfish slices in a baking dish, then season with oil , salt , and pepper .

Flavor with the zest of one lemon and wild fennel . Cover with plastic wrap and let marinate in the refrigerator for one hour .
After the marinating time, heat a pan with a drizzle of oil and the garlic cloves , then add the swordfish slices .
Do not touch the swordfish for about 4 minutes over medium-high heat , this way it will form a golden crust. Remove the garlic from the pan . After 4 minutes, flip the swordfish slices .
Deglaze with white wine and cook for another 2 minutes, letting the alcohol evaporate completely. Once cooked , serve your pan-seared swordfish immediately, accompanied by a mixed salad and some lemon slices !
Pan-seared swordfish can be stored for one day in the refrigerator, in an airtight container.
To avoid a dry result, it is important not to overcook the swordfish, so make sure the pan is hot before adding it and keep the heat medium-high to brown the outside and keep the inside tender.

