name:
Yogurt mousse with sour cherry gelée and crumble
ingredients:
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: 2.8oz(80 g)- at room temperature
Fine salt: 0.3tsp(2 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.67cup(80 g)
Almond flour: 1cup(100 g)
Baking soda: ¼tsp(1 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Elderberry syrup: ¼cup(50 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.2oz(5 g)
Vanilla syrup: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Black cherried in syrup: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Red wine: 4.1oz(120 g)
Cornstarch: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Black cherried in syrup: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
If like us you love single servings, this yogurt mousse with sour cherry gelée and crumble will win you over at first glance. For this dessert we didn't hold back and combined some of the most delicious pastry preparations to discover layer after layer. We start with the crumble , an eternally rustic base that will provide the essential crunchiness, followed by a velvety yogurt mousse scented with vanilla, and completing the dessert with a sour cherry gelée. Experiment with us on new flavor horizons and discover other delicious desserts to prepare at home:
To prepare the yogurt mousse with sour cherry gelée and crumble, start with the crumble: in a bowl, pour the brown sugar and butter , add the salt and knead .
Add the dry ingredients: almond flour , all-purpose flour, and baking soda . Knead again with your hands .
You need to obtain a coarse mixture . Distribute it on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and bake at 340°F for 18 minutes in static mode.
Remove from the oven and let cool . Proceed with the mousse: in a bowl, combine the cream and elderflower syrup . Whip with an electric mixer .
You need to obtain a semi-whipped mixture . Place in the fridge while you continue with the preparation . Melt the soaked and squeezed gelatin in the hot vanilla syrup and mix .
Pour the mixture into the yogurt and then combine it with the semi-whipped cream . Incorporate with the whisk . Place in the fridge.
Prepare the sour cherry gelée: pour the sugar into a saucepan and melt it over low heat, stirring with a spoon until you get caramel . Add the sour cherries .
Let simmer without stirring . Separately, dissolve the starch in the red wine with a whisk .
Flavor with the vanilla bean seeds and pour the wine into the caramel , let it boil for two minutes . Then turn off the heat and let cool.
Place the mousse in a piping bag . Assemble the glasses: a layer of crumble at the bottom , followed by the mousse .
Continue with the sour cherry gelée and make another similar layer, complete with the mousse, crumble and a sour cherry . The dessert is ready to be served .
Consume the desserts immediately, you can prepare the different elements in advance and then assemble them when serving.
As an alternative to sour cherries, you can use other fruits like apricots, berries, or raspberries.

