name:
Mayonnaise with Immersion Blender
ingredients:
Eggs: 1- (very fresh and kept in the fridge)
Vegetable oil: 1cup(210 g)- (cold from the fridge)
Lemon juice: 1tbsp(15 g)- (chilled from the fridge)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 3 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Mayonnaise is not a simple sauce to make by hand in the traditional way. To make your life easier, here is mayonnaise with an immersion blender, equally silky and lump-free, perfect for your recipes. It is even faster than the classic homemade method, requiring only a few adjustments to turn out perfect. To prepare it, you only need an immersion blender and three ingredients: egg, seed oil, and lemon juice! The trick is to use all cold ingredients and add them in the order listed below. With this recipe, you'll never have mayonnaise that doesn't thicken or breaks again!
Discover how to use it in these recipes with mayonnaise:
If, like us, you love homemade sauces, don't miss:

To prepare the mayonnaise with an immersion blender, we recommend chilling the part of the immersion blender with the blades and the oil, along with the lemon juice, a couple of hours beforehand. Take the egg directly from the fridge. Pour the ingredients into a tall glass in this order: the egg (making sure not to break the yolk) , the seed oil , the lemon juice , and a pinch of salt.
At this point, submerge the immersion blender blades to the bottom of the glass . Then turn on the blender, keeping it still until the mayonnaise begins to thicken . At this point, move the immersion blender with up-and-down movements until the mixture is smooth and well-mixed. These steps will take only a few seconds. Pour the ready mayonnaise into a jar with a lid or a small bowl , covering it with plastic wrap to prevent a skin from forming on the surface. The mayonnaise with an immersion blender is ready for use!
The mayonnaise can be stored in the fridge for 1-2 days at most.
Freezing is not recommended.
It's important for a perfect result to have the ingredients and tools cold as indicated and to pour the ingredients in the specified order.
When you crack the egg open, make sure not to break the yolk. For an extra flavor boost, you can add the tip of a teaspoon of mustard.

