name:
Pasta with tuna and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Fusilli pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 1cup(200 g)
Tuna in oil: 5.3oz(150 g)- (already drained or natural)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves
Basil: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Tuna pasta is one of the main courses most appreciated by students for its simplicity! If you're looking to make it even tastier, we have something in store for you: pasta with tuna and cherry tomatoes! Making it is extremely easy, with only 3 main ingredients: pasta, cherry tomatoes, and tuna (either jarred fillets or canned). If you're a beginner in the kitchen, this is one of the basics you should include in your initial manual, but it's also a quick and tasty pasta dish for those who want to have a delicious meal in no time or need to prepare a lunch for work! As for the type of pasta, we chose fusilli, but all pasta shapes, both long and short, will work perfectly, such as mezze maniche, penne, or spaghetti. Add some fresh chili if you're a spice lover and fall in love with this easy and quick pasta with tuna fillets! Here are some more tuna recipes for inspiration:

To prepare fusilli with tuna and cherry tomatoes, start with the sauce. Wash, dry, and cut the cherry tomatoes in half . Peel the garlic, cut it in half, and remove the core . Place the garlic cloves in a pan with a drizzle of oil and let them brown .
Add some of the basil leaves, torn by hand, and add the cherry tomatoes , with a pinch of salt. Cook the tomatoes until they become soft and release their juice, about 10 minutes . You can then remove the garlic. Meanwhile, cook the fusilli in plenty of boiling salted water, to your liking .
Transfer the tuna to a bowl and crumble it with a fork . Then chop the parsley and tear the basil leaves by hand. Once the pasta is cooked, drain it and transfer it to the pan with the cherry tomatoes .
Mix, add the tuna , the parsley, the basil, and a tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil . Mix well, turn off the heat, and serve .
You can store the pasta with cherry tomatoes and tuna in the refrigerator for 1 day.
You can enrich the sauté with some chili pepper and parsley stems. You can also use another variety of cherry tomatoes. If you prefer, you can store the pasta in the refrigerator and enjoy it cold.

