name:
Stir-fried Soy Spaghetti
ingredients:
Soy spaghetti pasta: 7oz(200 g)
Yellow onions: 1
Zucchini: 1
Carrots: 1
Fresh ginger: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Vegetable oil: to taste
Ground beef: 5.3oz(150 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Rice wine: to taste
Soybean sprouts: ½cup(50 g)
Soy sauce: 3.4tbsp(50 g)- dark
Soy sauce: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- light
Water: ¾cup(200 g)
Edible flowers: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 1 hour of resting

instructions:
Essential in Asian cuisine, stir-fried soy spaghetti is a rich and colorful main course, interpreted in many different variants, all equally appetizing. The recipe here features a tasty mix of meat and vegetables stir-fried in a wok, the typical pan of oriental cuisine, which allows everything to be cooked together and, above all, in a short time! It will be fun to replicate this typical Chinese cuisine dish at home and all its other delightful versions:
To prepare the stir-fried soy spaghetti, soak the spaghetti in lukewarm water for 30 minutes, or better yet, leave them in cold water overnight . Clean and slice the onion , cut the zucchini into sticks .
Clean and cut the carrot into sticks as well . Peel the ginger and cut it into sticks .
Cut the chili pepper into strips . Pour a dash of oil into the wok , add the onions, ginger, and chili pepper . Let them wilt for a few minutes.
Add the minced meat , season with salt , pepper, and stir-fry for a moment, then brown and deglaze with rice wine .
Add the vegetables and soy sprouts . Drain the soaked spaghetti here , add the water as well. Stir to flavor.
Now pour the dark soy sauce and then the light soy sauce. Add the water, stir again to blend, cover with the lid and cook for 5 minutes. Finally, add a dash of seed oil .
Stir-fry one last time , serve the soy spaghetti garnishing the plates with edible flowers .
It is recommended to consume the stir-fried soy spaghetti immediately after preparation.
You can replace rice wine with white wine.

