name:
Queen's Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ¾cup(350 g)
Shrimps: 1.1lbs(500 g)- red
Spumante: 1glass- Franciacorta
Red onions: ½
Shrimp bisque  (Fumetto di crostacei): 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Butter: 5.67tbsp(80 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- to grate
Spumante: ½glass- Franciacorta
Thyme: to taste
Marjoram: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High
Note + the time required for preparing the broth

instructions:
Enrico Derflingher, the chef who served at Buckingham Palace and Kensington Palace for three years, made history with his Queen Victoria risotto, prepared with exquisite red shrimp and enhanced with the bubbles of Franciacorta, winning the palate of Queen Elizabeth during an unforgettable dinner. Now, after three decades, as protocol dictates, the first Italian chef of the Windsor family can finally share his working experiences with the royal family and reveals all the secrets of the Queen's risotto, made with Italian excellence, from Carnaroli rice to Parmigiano Reggiano PDO, including the aromatic touch of Franciacorta. If this irresistible first course has already whetted your appetite, do not hesitate to also indulge in another culinary masterpiece of the Royal House: the sumptuous Risotto del Re , a dish that embodies the elegance and refinement of royal flavors.
To prepare the Queen's risotto, first, you need to make a shellfish broth to keep warm. Clean the shrimp by removing the head and shell . In a saucepan, pour a drizzle of oil and add the chopped onion . Let the onion stew over low heat .
Add the rice and let it toast until the grains are well-heated, then deglaze with the Franciacorta , let it evaporate, and cook the rice by adding the hot shellfish broth one ladle at a time .
Halfway through cooking, add two-thirds of the shrimp cut into pieces and continue cooking. When the risotto is ready remove from heat and stir in the butter .
Add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano PDO , then season with chopped herbs and a drizzle of oil .
Finally, complete the risotto with half a glass of Franciacorta . Serve on plates garnished with the raw shrimp set aside . The Queen's risotto is ready to be served at the table !
We recommend consuming the Queen's risotto immediately.
For an even more intense flavor, you can stir in some alpine butter.
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not fully cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze for at least 96 hours at -0.4 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius) in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

