name:
Hazelnut Crumble with Rum Strawberries
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Low-fat Yogurt: 0.7cup(170 g)
Powdered brown sugar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Type 1 flour: ½cup(60 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: 10tbsp(60 g)
Raw cane sugar: ¼cup(60 g)
Butter: 4 ¼tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: ½tsp
Strawberries: 1.4cups(200 g)
Rum: 0.9oz(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
How nice is it to relax on the balcony between spring and summer? After dinner, a fresh dessert would be perfect, but making a creamy tiramisu or a soft cheesecake takes time! Here's the sweet solution: hazelnut crumble with rum strawberries. Beautiful single-serving desserts that are fabulous to savor. Dive your spoon into the intriguing play of textures: semi-whipped lime cream, a layer of delicious and seductive rum strawberries, and the tasty hazelnut crumble. You'll experience exactly in this order the skillful blend of flavors of the hazelnut crumble with rum strawberries. Sit back and enjoy the evening by sharing this good and simple dessert with your loved ones!
To prepare the hazelnut crumble with rum strawberries, start with the soft cream. Pour the well-chilled cream and yogurt into a bowl, add the powdered sugar , and quickly whisk with a hand whisk (you can also use electric beaters) until you get a creamy mixture: there's no need to whip to stiff peaks .
Once you've obtained a soft and compact cream, cover with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for about ten minutes . Meanwhile, focus on the crumble. In a bowl, pour the hazelnut pieces, the flour , the sugar, and the softened butter in pieces ,
finally the salt , and quickly crumble the mixture with your fingertips . Spread the crumbs on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 10 minutes: at the end of baking, it will be well colored . Move on to the strawberries: remove the green leaves and stalk , then cut into wedges based on their size: with large ones, you should get 8 equal wedges .
Pour the strawberries into a pan . Turn on the heat, and as soon as the bottom is hot, deglaze with the rum and let it evaporate. It will take no more than 2-3 minutes in total. The strawberries should remain crispy .
While the strawberries cool, retrieve the cream from the fridge, grate the lime zest , and mix very gently . You're ready to assemble the 4 servings. In the glasses, pour a bit of hazelnut crumble as the base .
add some of the rum strawberries , and finally cover with the lime cream . Continue like this with the others, and your hazelnut crumble with rum strawberries is ready: enjoy them immediately !
Once the hazelnut crumble with rum strawberries glasses are ready, it's recommended to consume them immediately, but if you want, you can store them for 1-2 days at most. Ideally, it would be better to prepare both the cream and the strawberries at the moment; this way, you avoid the cream deflating or the strawberries releasing their juices. What you can prepare in advance, even the day before by storing it in an airtight jar, is the crumble.
If you want to give an extra kick to your hazelnut crumble with rum strawberries glasses, add some grated chocolate shavings on top. Also, try different varieties of rum from light to those aged in oak. If you want to add a spicy note to the crumble, add a pinch of ginger or cinnamon powder. Alternatively, to the strawberries, you can add pieces of candied ginger. Lastly, instead of cane powdered sugar, classic powdered sugar is also fine.

