name:
Strudel with custard and strawberries
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- (rectangular)
Ladyfingers: 3
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: 2.4tbsp(30 g)
Cornstarch: 1tbsp(15 g)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (about 1 medium)
Egg yolks: ½cup(15 g)- (about 1 medium)
Lemon peel: 1- unprocessed
Fine salt: 1pinch
Strawberries: 1.7cups(250 g)
Sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)
Lemon peel: ½- to be grated
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: 1spoonful
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time of the custard

instructions:
The classic apple strudel has no equal. But if you also appreciated our delicious variations with pear and chocolate , peaches , or berries , you can't miss out on the spring version of this delightful dessert: strudel with custard and strawberries! Creamy on the inside and crispy on the outside, made with ready-made puff pastry that will allow you to satisfy your sudden craving for sweets, faster but just as deliciously! Let yourself be tempted by the strudel with custard and strawberries, such an enticing indulgence that it will be impossible to resist!
Also try the apple strudel with puff pastry , an easy and quick variation of the traditional dessert!
To make the strudel with custard and strawberries, first prepare the custard: remove the lemon zest with a peeler, being careful not to remove the white part , then pour the milk into a saucepan , add the lemon zest and bring to just below boiling over low heat.
Pour the egg and egg yolk into a bowl along with the sugar and a pinch of salt , then briefly mix with a hand whisk to combine the sugar .
Sift the cornstarch into the bowl , then remove the lemon zest from the saucepan and pour half of the hot milk into the egg yolk mixture , stirring constantly with the whisk .
At this point, put the saucepan of milk back on the heat and pour in the egg yolk and milk mixture , then cook over medium-low heat until the custard has thickened, stirring constantly with the whisk ; this will take about 10 minutes. Once ready, transfer the custard into a baking dish and cover immediately with cling film in contact . Let it cool at room temperature for about an hour.
In the meantime, wash the strawberries and cut them into 4 parts . Pour the strawberries into a non-stick pan, add the sugar and grated lemon zest and cook over high heat for 5 minutes, so they release some of their juice . Turn off the heat and set aside.
Also cut the ladyfingers into pieces . Once the custard has cooled, unroll the puff pastry together with the parchment paper and position it with the long side towards you. Spread the custard in the center creating a strip about 3 inches wide, leaving a couple of inches free at the sides, then cover with the strawberries, being careful not to pour the juice that could wet the puff pastry . Finally, crumble the ladyfinger pieces over the strawberries to absorb any remaining liquid .
Close the strudel, using the parchment paper underneath to help : bring the 2 edges towards the center and fold the ends under the strudel to prevent the filling from escaping during cooking .
Make diagonal cuts with a knife along the entire surface , then mix the egg yolk with the milk in a bowl and brush the strudel with the obtained mixture . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 40 minutes.
When it is nicely golden, take the strudel out of the oven and let it cool, then sprinkle with powdered sugar if desired . Slice your delicious strudel with custard and strawberries and serve !
The strudel with custard and strawberries can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
As an alternative to ladyfingers, you can use crumbled amaretti or 2-3 tablespoons of breadcrumbs.

