name:
Strawberry Tart with Frangipane
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(375 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Eggs: 3.25oz(90 g)- (2 small)
Butter: 6.5oz(185 g)
Eggs: 3.5oz(100 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Almond flour: 1cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅓cup(40 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Whole milk: ¾cup(175 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ⅓cup(75 g)
Egg yolks: 5.3tbsp(75 g)- (from approximately 4-5 medium eggs)
Sugar: 5tbsp(60 g)
Cornstarch: 2tbsp(15 g)
Type 00 flour: 2tsp(5 g)
Strawberry jam: ½cup(150 g)
Strawberries: 1cup(150 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
The strawberry tart with frangipane is much more than a simple homemade tart , sophisticated and delicious, it will enter the pantheon of desserts for special occasions like Mother's Day or a birthday! We have taken some of the basic preparations and expertly shaken them to obtain an amazing result! A classic shortcrust pastry , a double filling of jam and Frangipane cream , and finally, a decoration of custard and fresh strawberries that evoke the flavors of spring. A few heart-shaped cookies will complete the strawberry tart with frangipane, reminding you that this dessert is made with lots of love!
Let yourself be inspired by other sweet delights for your special occasions:

To prepare the strawberry tart with frangipane, start with the crust: in a large bowl, pour flour and diced butter , work with your fingers for a short time, just to obtain a sandy mixture. Add the sugar and mix for a few minutes, then incorporate the eggs and knead first with a wooden spoon.
and then by hand for a few moments, transfer onto a non-floured work surface, handle for a few more moments to obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough . Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least half an hour .
Now prepare the frangipane cream. Beat the room temperature butter and sugar with an electric mixer until the mixture is soft and fluffy, then add the dry ingredients : almond flour and all-purpose flour.
Then add the eggs, continuing to mix at low speed . When the mixture is homogeneous , cover it with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 10 minutes, then put it in a piping bag with a 10 mm nozzle.
Take the dough and on a lightly floured board, roll it out to a thickness of about 1/4 inch . Use the rolling pin to help transfer the rolled dough onto a 20 cm (8-inch) diameter tart pan .
Remove the excess by running the rolling pin over the edge of the pan and store it wrapped with plastic wrap. Now spread a layer of strawberry jam over the crust ,
then a layer of frangipane cream , which you will level with a spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 30 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the custard. Pour the milk and cream into a saucepan and bring to a boil. Then turn off.
In the meantime, in a bowl, pour the egg yolks (remember the importance of weighing them to reach the indicated dose), the sugar, and mix with a whisk . Also, add the sifted cornstarch and flour . Work all the ingredients with the whisk until you get a smooth mixture .
When the milk has reached a boil, pour the egg mixture . Mix everything with the whisk for a few seconds. Cook the cream over low heat, stirring constantly, until you get a dense and smooth consistency . Remove from the heat while still stirring, then transfer it to a wide and shallow bowl, cover with plastic wrap in contact and let it cool first at room temperature and then in the fridge. After that, you can transfer it to a piping bag with a 9 mm nozzle.
When the tart is ready, remove it from the oven without turning it off and let it cool at room temperature. Lower the oven temperature to 340°F, roll out the remaining dough and make small hearts with cookie cutters 3/4 to 1 inch in diameter . Bake the cookies on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and cook for about 15 minutes (check from time to time, depending on the power of your oven, it might take less time).
Cut the well-washed strawberries into small wedges (into 4 if they are small) and set them aside . Put some of the cream on the surface and spread it well with a small spatula .
Create scattered dollops with the remaining cream . Fill in the empty spaces with strawberries until the tart is covered . Finally, add some cookies, which you have previously decorated with a dusting of powdered sugar. The strawberry tart with frangipane is ready to be served .
The strawberry tart with frangipane can be stored in the fridge for 2-3 days. You can freeze the raw shortcrust pastry, custard, and frangipane separately.
You can prepare some components in advance: the crust can be made 2-3 days ahead and stored in the fridge wrapped in plastic. The custard can be made the night before, as well as the frangipane. This way, you'll only have to assemble and bake the dessert on the day you'll serve it!
Frangipane cream is a rich and dense cream, it's normal for it to be more compact and slightly grainy.

