name:
Strawberry and Cream Roll
ingredients:
Eggs: 8.6oz(245 g)- (about 5 medium)
Sugar: 0.6cup(115 g)
Type 00 flour: 2.8oz(80 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Strawberries: 2.1cups(300 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2.1cups(500 g)
Powdered sugar: ½cup(60 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
Rolls made with Biscuit dough are among our favorite desserts, so simple to prepare and so delicious to eat. But besides the Nutella , how many ways are there to fill them? Today we propose the strawberries and cream roll... a filling that combines the most classic of pairings! The sponge cake is very soft, and once rolled up, it creates a truly delicious swirl! Whipped cream with a little powdered sugar and fresh strawberries cut into cubes will be the perfect filling. The strawberries and cream roll is even more beautiful once cut into slices. A perfect dessert for any spring occasion, thanks to its unpretentious, fresh, and creamy taste that will satisfy everyone's palate.
Here are other strawberry desserts not to be missed:
To prepare the strawberry roll, start with the sponge cake: pour the eggs and vanilla extract into the bowl of a mixer with whisks . Turn on the machine and slowly add the sugar. Work for about 10 minutes until you get a fluffy, light, and frothy mixture .
Add the flour by sifting it directly into the bowl and gently mix with a spatula from bottom to top to incorporate it . Butter and line a 12x16 inch baking tray with parchment paper. Then pour the batter into the tray .
Level the surface with a spatula and bake in a preheated static oven at 425°F for 8-10 minutes until the surface is golden and the batter is cooked . Clearly, adjust according to your oven, it could take fewer minutes or a lower temperature if very powerful. In the meantime, prepare a sheet of parchment paper and place it on the counter. As soon as you take the sponge cake out of the oven, you will need to flip it onto the parchment paper sheet , in this way it will remain moist.
Let it cool slightly before very gently removing the parchment paper sheet . Then cover it again with the parchment paper sheet and let it cool completely . Now wash the strawberries and remove the stem .
Cut them first into slices and then into cubes . Pour the cold fresh cream into a bowl; start whipping with electric whisks and slowly add the powdered sugar . Continue until you get firm, but not overly whipped, cream .
Once the sponge cake is completely cool, remove the parchment paper and fill it with the whipped cream. Use a spatula to spread it well over the entire surface . Sprinkle the strawberries on top and, lifting the parchment paper, roll the cake from the shorter side .
Roll it gently and make sure the seam of the roll is facing down . Wrap it again in the parchment paper and transfer it to the refrigerator for 30 minutes. Then take the roll and unwrap it .
Dust with powdered sugar , if necessary, trim it , then cut it into slices and serve it !
The strawberries and cream roll can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days, well covered.
You can flavor the sponge cake with orange or lemon zest.
You can also add a teaspoon of honey to the batter, which will give it more color and aroma.
It's possible to make the chocolate sponge cake instead of the classic one. If you prefer, you can reduce the amount of sugar in the cream or replace it with honey.

