name:
Strawberry Millefeuille
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1roll- rectangular
Sugar: to taste
Strawberries: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2.1cups(500 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.67cup(80 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the chilling time for the cream (2 h)

instructions:
Millefeuille is one of the most beloved desserts, known for its extreme flakiness and velvety cream. Today we offer you strawberry millefeuille, an even richer alternative, perfect for the beautiful season! The puff pastry is the star of this dessert, and if you love a challenge, you can make it yourself, otherwise, using store-bought pastry will also yield fantastic results. To achieve crispy and well-caramelized sheets, the trick is to sprinkle them with sugar before baking; this way, the cake will remain fragrant for a long time, even after being filled! And since we love the combination of cream and strawberries, we couldn’t resist adding two generous layers of chantilly cream and plenty of fresh strawberry cubes. Discover how simple it is to make strawberry millefeuille by following our steps and also try the Blueberry Millefeuille ! If you are looking for more strawberry desserts we suggest these:

To prepare the strawberry millefeuille, first pour the cream into a bowl and add the vanilla extract . Start whipping with electric beaters and when it begins to thicken, add the sifted powdered sugar .
Continue to whip until the cream is firm and stiff . Place in the fridge and let set for 2 hours. Meanwhile, unroll the puff pastry on a surface .
Cut the pastry along the longer side to obtain 3 rectangles of the same size . Prick the pastry with the tines of a fork and generously sprinkle with sugar .
Press slightly to let the sugar penetrate and transfer the pastry onto a baking sheet . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C) for about 15-30 minutes, until well golden. Remove from the oven and let cool completely.
At this point, wash the strawberries thoroughly and set aside 4 whole ones for the final decoration. Remove the stem from the others and dice them . Once the cream is well set, transfer it to a piping bag. You can use a plain nozzle or simply cut off the tip of the piping bag . Take one of the pastry bases and place it on a serving dish. Pipe cream puffs all over the surface .
Add half of the strawberries and cover with the second pastry base . Create another layer of cream, still using the piping bag .
Add the remaining strawberries and finish by covering with the last layer of pastry . Pipe cream puffs in the center of the pastry with the remaining cream .
Take the strawberries you set aside and cut them in half . Use them to decorate the millefeuille by placing them on the cream puffs . Sprinkle the strawberry millefeuille with powdered sugar and refrigerate until ready to enjoy.
The strawberry millefeuille can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
Instead of chantilly cream, you can use diplomat cream or pastry cream.
Instead of strawberries, you can use raspberries or mixed berries and wild strawberries.

