name:
Baked Strawberry and Mascarpone Cheesecake
ingredients:
Cookies: 7.1oz(200 g)
Butter: 8 ½tbsp(120 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(250 g)- cold
Yogurt: ½cup(125 g)- creamy strawberry (cold)
Cream cheese: ½cup(100 g)- cold
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Eggs: 6.25oz(180 g)- (cold) about 3 medium
Type 00 flour: 0.6cup(80 g)
Strawberries: 2cups(300 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Lemon juice: ½

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + cooling times

instructions:
The strawberry cheesecake is one of the most beloved variations of the famous American dessert made with cheese. After presenting you with the no-bake version, we delight you with a fantastic baked strawberry and mascarpone cheesecake! The creamy filling is flavored with fruit yogurt and does not require the addition of gelatin: just like the classic New York cheesecake , it will be the flour starch to thicken it in the oven. For decoration, we opted for a simple strawberry sauce, with a consistency similar to a jam enriched with delicious chunks of fruit. Without forgetting the typical biscuit base, a distinctive (and definitely irresistible) element of this type of recipe... there are many reasons to prepare baked strawberry and mascarpone cheesecake, but we'll let it convince you with its soft and voluptuous appearance!
Also try these red fruit cheesecake variations:
To make the baked strawberry and mascarpone cheesecake, first prepare the base: place the dry biscuits in a mixer and finely chop them . Meanwhile, melt the butter in a saucepan. Transfer the chopped biscuits to a bowl and add the cooled melted butter .
Mix well to combine the ingredients . Line a springform pan with a diameter of 8 inches with parchment paper and pour the biscuit mixture inside . Compact the base with the back of a spoon and create an irregular border about 1.5 inches high . Place the base in the refrigerator and let it chill for about an hour (or 30 minutes in the freezer).
In the meantime, you can start on the filling: pour the eggs and sugar into a large bowl and whisk with an electric mixer until you get a smooth and well-whipped mixture. Continuing to whisk, add the cream cheese and mascarpone .
Then add the strawberry yogurt and mix again. Finally, pour in the sifted flour and incorporate it smoothly using the mixer .
Retrieve the pan and pour the cream mixture over the biscuit base , then level the surface with a spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 330°F for about 50 minutes. Once baked, remove from the oven and let cool completely at room temperature .
In the meantime, work on the sauce: wash the strawberries, remove the stem, and cut them into quarters . Place the strawberries in a saucepan along with the sugar and lemon juice .
Cook over medium-high heat for about 7-10 minutes: you should achieve a thick jam-like consistency with visible strawberry pieces . Let the strawberry sauce cool down and then refrigerate it. When the cheesecake is also cold, garnish the surface with the sauce by spreading it with the back of a spoon . Your baked strawberry and mascarpone cheesecake is ready to be served !
The baked strawberry and mascarpone cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can choose whole or low-fat yogurt, even plain if you prefer: the important thing is that it is creamy, without fruit pieces.
We do not recommend replacing the cream cheese with ricotta, but you can use the same amount of robiola!

