name:
Caramelized Strawberries
ingredients:
Strawberries: to taste
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Ice: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
Caramelized strawberries are a typical Chinese dessert, tasty and easy to prepare. Known as tanghulu, caramelized fruit is a quick recipe made with bamboo skewers where fruit bites are skewered to be coated with a thin layer of caramel . The most common ones are with strawberries but they can be made with other fruits like mandarins, grapes, and kiwis for an even more delightful and colorful result. The traditional Chinese recipe calls for the fruit of the mountain hawthorn, small berries reminiscent of apples, and stands alongside other iconic sweets of the Far East, such as Fried ice cream and Fortune Cookies . Discover this and other Chinese recipes prepared by Chef Mulan !

To prepare caramelized strawberries, wash the fruit and then place each piece on a wooden skewer . Pour the water into a pan .
Add the sugar , mix , and transfer to the heat. Let the sugar dissolve over low heat. Meanwhile, pour water and ice into a bowl .
When the water and sugar syrup becomes thick and forms bubbles, dip the skewers and rotate them so they are coated with an even and thin glaze layer. Finally, immediately immerse the skewers in the ice water so that the glaze solidifies . The caramelized strawberries are ready to be enjoyed .
Caramelized strawberries can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days.
To ensure the caramel crystallizes correctly in the ice water, it's important that the layer around the fruit is even and not too thick.
The Chef Mulan of Mulan Group , the company of the Zhang family that has been operating in Chinese gastronomy for over twenty years: iconic dishes and many delicacies made as they would be at home. This makes them unique: an artisanal production that combines the genuineness of a homemade meal with the authenticity of tradition. The attention dedicated to manual processing is perceived in the natural taste and quality of the details. From the method of closing Chinese dumplings to the meticulous cooking processes of traditional ingredients, everything is made according to the ancient oriental culinary art.

