name:
Strawberry Pudding
ingredients:
Strawberries: 3 ⅓cups(500 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Cornstarch: 3tbsp(40 g)
Lemon juice: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note plus 2 hours of resting

instructions:
Do you love spoon desserts? Then get ready to discover strawberry pudding, an easy and quick dessert to make for a snack or after a meal. A delight that will conquer your palate, perfect for the spring season. It is a variant with an intense strawberry flavor, both fresh and delicate, that rivals classic vanilla pudding or chocolate ! Besides this unmistakable flavor, the blended strawberries will give a beautiful pink color, intensified by the red sauce poured over the dessert when served! A real treat for the palate, ready to win over all your guests... a creamy dessert, also gluten-free, perfect for any occasion! Here are other strawberry recipes you shouldn't miss:
To prepare the strawberry pudding, first wash and dry them well. Cut off the top part with the leaves using a small knife and transfer them to a tall, narrow container . Blend with an immersion blender to obtain a puree .
Strain the obtained mixture to remove the seeds . In a saucepan, pour the milk and 300 grams of strawberry puree , keep the rest of the puree in the fridge covered well, it will be used for the final decoration.
Mix with a whisk , then add the sugar and the starch .
Mix well to avoid lumps and turn on the heat. Also add the juice of half a lemon . Cook on medium heat, stirring often, until it starts to boil and thicken .
Moisten with water 4 molds measuring 2.75x2.75 inches and 1.57 inches high. Pour the mixture inside to the brim . Cover with plastic wrap and let solidify in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours.
Unmold the puddings onto a saucer , to make it easier you can moisten the bottom of the mold with warm water. Garnish with the strawberry sauce set aside and serve it .
You can store the strawberry pudding in the refrigerator for 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Serve the pudding with dollops of whipped cream and cubes of fresh strawberries!

