name:
Strawberry Madeleines
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ⅓cups(300 g)
Strawberries: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Eggs: 4
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Baking powder: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Butter: to taste
Strawberries: 1cup(200 g)
Powdered sugar: 1.6cups(200 g)
Lemon juice: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 12 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 30 min. of dough resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
After trying the Madeleine and the Iced madeleines , we invite you to taste a delicious pastel pink variation of these French-origin treats: strawberry madeleines! The soft batter is enriched with a puree of fresh strawberries, which is also used to make the glaze. This way, with every bite, you'll feel the real taste of seasonal strawberries, and a fragrant breath of spring will fill your kitchen... perfect for accompanying afternoon tea, strawberry madeleines are very easy to make and great to enjoy for breakfast or as a dessert at the end of a meal!
Discover these tasty variations too:

To make the strawberry madeleines, first wash the strawberries and remove the hull , then transfer them to a pitcher and blend with an immersion blender .
After preparing the strawberry puree , melt the butter in a saucepan and let it cool slightly. In a separate bowl, pour the eggs and beat them together with the sugar without whipping them .
Also add the strawberry puree and mix the batter with a whisk. Sift the baking powder and flour into the bowl.
Incorporate the dry ingredients with the whisk , then add the melted butter and mix everything together . Cover with plastic wrap and let the batter rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
After this time, butter the madeleine mold and fill each cavity with a scant tablespoon of batter . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C) for about 12 minutes . Once cooked, remove the mold from the oven .
Unmold the madeleines while still hot by tapping the mold lightly , then let them cool. In the meantime, start preparing the glaze: trim the strawberries and blend them with the immersion blender .
Strain the puree through a sieve to make it smooth and uniform , then add it to the powdered sugar and mix everything together .
Finally, add the lemon juice and mix again. Dip one end of the madeleines into the glaze and let them dry at room temperature. Your strawberry madeleines are ready to be served !
Strawberry madeleines can be stored for 2 days at room temperature in an airtight container.
If you like, you can flavor the batter with some lemon zest.
Adjust the glaze's thickness by gradually adding the strawberry puree to achieve the desired consistency.

