name:
Yogurt Cake with Strawberries and Almonds
ingredients:
Strawberries: 2cups(300 g)
Whole grain flour: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Almond flour: ¾cup(75 g)
Yogurt: ½cup(125 g)
Sugar: 6tbsp(75 g)
Eggs: 3
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Almond slices: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
The yogurt cake with strawberries and almonds is a simple recipe to prepare at home, perfect for breakfast or a snack for the whole family! We enriched the classic yogurt cake by adding strawberry pieces, whole wheat flour, and almond flour, and the result was truly amazing! The sweetness of the strawberries pairs beautifully with the rustic taste of the whole wheat flour, while the almond flour, thanks to its fat content, provides a moist and fragrant texture. To decorate this dessert, we used only strawberry slices and almond flakes, which also add a crunchy touch... If you want to prepare an irresistible cake, you must try this yogurt cake with strawberries and almonds! Here are more strawberry desserts not to miss:

To prepare the yogurt cake with strawberries and almonds, first gently wash the strawberries and remove the stems . Cut half into slices (the best ones) and half into cubes . Then separate the egg whites and yolks into 2 bowls .
Whip the egg whites to stiff peaks and set aside, then add the sugar to the yolks and mix with an electric whisk .
When they are well combined, add the yogurt , the sifted whole wheat flour , and the almond flour .
Also add the sifted baking powder and mix well with the whisk. You will get a thick mixture. Then gradually incorporate the egg whites , mixing gently from bottom to top .
Add the cubed strawberries and mix, still gently . Pour the mixture into a 6.7-inch springform pan, 3.5 inches high, lined with parchment paper .
Decorate the surface with the sliced strawberries and almond flakes . Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 30-35 minutes; once cooked, remove from the oven and let cool .
Transfer to a plate , dust with powdered sugar , and serve your yogurt cake with strawberries and almonds !
You can keep the yogurt cake with strawberries and almonds for 2 days under a glass dome in a cool place.
Instead of almond flour, you can use hazelnut flour or pistachio flour!

