name:
Strawberry Bouquet Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 9.7oz(275 g)- (about 5 medium)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.6cup(75 g)
Potato starch: 9 ½tbsp(75 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1pinch
Strawberries: 0.67cup(100 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(450 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(120 g)
Powdered sugar: 6 ½tbsp(50 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Alchermes: to taste
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: ½cup(120 g)- soft
Eggs: 4.2oz(120 g)- (2 medium)
Sugar: 9 ½tbsp(120 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp(8 g)
Strawberries: to taste
Strawberry jam: ½cup(150 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1 ½cup(375 g)
White chocolate: 10.5oz(300 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(120 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.2oz(6 g)
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 3 h
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + cooling times (at least 4 hours total)

instructions:
Imagine gifting something extraordinary, that surprises and delights in a unique way. Instead of traditional flowers, here is a strawberry bouquet cake, a double gift offering not only a delicious sweet for the palate but also a wonder for the eyes. The base is a soft tart filled with strawberry jam, topped with a delightful Zuccotto filled with lemon-flavored ricotta cream and enriched with fresh strawberries. Completing the masterpiece is a scenic decoration that enchants with its inviting appearance: cream roses skillfully arranged to form a floral bouquet, as if freshly picked from a spring garden. This strawberry bouquet cake is perfect for special occasions and Mother's Day is undoubtedly the ideal occasion!
Discover other refined strawberry cakes:

To prepare the strawberry bouquet cake, start with the decoration cream: soak the gelatin in cold water for 10 minutes . Heat the milk until it boils , then incorporate the well-squeezed gelatin .
Carefully mix to dissolve it using a whisk . In a bowl, pour the mascarpone with grated lemon zest and strawberry jam .
Mix with the spatula , then incorporate the milk in which you dissolved the gelatin and mix again to combine it .
Finally, chop the white chocolate with a knife , melt it in a bain-marie , and incorporate it into the cream .
With an immersion blender process for a couple of minutes trying not to incorporate air , then cover with cling film touching the surface and let it set for at least 3-4 hours in the refrigerator.
Move on to the preparation of the zuccotto starting with the sponge cake: in a stand mixer fitted with a whisk, pour the eggs and vanilla extract ; turn on the machine at moderate speed and add the sugar and salt . Work the mixture for 15-20 minutes, it should be light and fluffy .
Sift flour and potato starch into the batter through a sieve and gently fold with the spatula . Pour the batter into a 9.5-inch (24 cm) diameter greased and floured pan .
Bake on the lower rack of the oven at 320°F (160°C) for about 50 minutes . Remove the sponge cake from the oven and invert onto a surface with parchment paper, then let it cool .
Now focus on the filling for the zuccotto: sift the ricotta into a bowl , then add the sifted powdered sugar and grated lemon zest .
Semi-whip the cream following the instructions in our guide: how to whip fresh cream, using electric beaters , then incorporate it into the ricotta in 2 additions and mix to obtain a homogeneous cream .
Wash and hull the strawberries , then cut them into small pieces and incorporate them into the ricotta cream .
Everything is ready to assemble the zuccotto: retrieve the cooled sponge cake, cut it into 0.4-inch thick slices , and line a 6.7-inch (17 cm) diameter glass bowl with them . Brush with alchermes, thoroughly covering the surface .
Now pour the ricotta cream in the center pressing well with the back of a spoon . Cover the filling with more slices of sponge cake .
Trim the excess by cutting along the edge of the bowl with a knife and brush the surface with more alchermes . Cover with cling film and let rest in the fridge for a couple of hours.
Meanwhile, prepare the soft tart that will be the cake base: in a bowl, pour the butter and vanilla extract . Add the sugar and beat the mixture with electric beaters .
Incorporate the eggs, one at a time , and finally sift the flour and baking powder , also add the salt and mix well .
Pour the mixture into a 8.7-inch (22 cm) diameter greased and floured smart cake pan , level the surface well with a spatula , and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F (180°C) for about 25 minutes. Remove the soft tart from the oven and let it cool .
Once cooled, unmold the soft tart onto a serving plate, fill the cavity with strawberry jam , then invert the zuccotto in the center , which should have set well in the fridge .
Take the previously prepared cream for decoration: beat it a little with the beaters to soften it , then transfer it to a piping bag with a 0.5-inch (1.2 cm) flower nozzle. Decorate the entire surface of the dome with cream roses , finally garnish with strawberry wedges and mint leaves. The strawberry bouquet cake is ready for the party !
The strawberry bouquet cake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days. Various preparations can be made a day in advance; in this case, the overall storage times will be reduced.
If you prefer, you can use a ready-made sponge cake.
You can omit the lemon and use only vanilla or vice versa.

