name:
Spring Rice Salad
ingredients:
Rice: 1 ½cup(300 g)- for salad
Green beans: 0.6lb(250 g)
Flat beans: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
Cucumbers: 6.3oz(180 g)- (about 1)
Almond slices: 0.4oz(10 g)
Sesame oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Rice vinegar: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Soy sauce: 2tsp(10 g)- (low sodium)
Miso: 0.6tbsp(10 g)
Sesame seeds: to taste
Black sesame seeds: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Many shades of green in a single recipe, light and tasty: the spring rice salad! A vegetarian dish with oriental notes, perfect to prepare during the nice season to satisfy your appetite in a tasty and genuine way. To dress the rice with the vegetables we have chosen an exotic touch dressing based on rice vinegar, miso, and soy sauce, to which sesame seeds and almonds are added, rich in properties and nutrients. A tasty mix that will bring a splash of color and well-being to your table... with the spring rice salad the rice salad will never be the same again!
Looking for a winter alternative with legumes? Try these recipes:

To prepare the spring rice salad, first cook the rice in boiling salted water for the time indicated on the package . Meanwhile, trim the green beans and the flat beans, then cut the latter into diamonds about 1.18 inches (3 cm) . Bring another pot of salted water to a boil.
Once cooked, drain the rice and dress it with sesame oil , then mix well and set aside . Pour both the green beans and the flat beans into the boiling water and cook for 5 minutes.
After this time, drain the vegetables and transfer them to a bowl with ice water . Then grill them on a hot grill for a couple of minutes . When they are slightly colored, remove the vegetables from the grill and set them aside .
Finally, wash the cucumber, cut it in half lengthwise , and slice it 0.2 inches (5 mm) thick without peeling . Take the bowl with the rice and add the green beans and flat beans .
Add also the cucumber , then season with rice vinegar , black sesame seeds , and white sesame seeds.
Add the sliced almonds, keeping some aside for garnish , then pour in the soy sauce and miso . Mix well to combine everything .
Plate and garnish with another pinch of black and white sesame seeds , some sliced almonds, and basil leaves . Your spring rice salad is ready to be served warm or at room temperature !
The spring rice salad can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
You can substitute the flat beans with peas or edamame!

