name:
Galette with potatoes and cheese
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Cheese: 7oz(200 g)- from the farmer, hay milk
Thyme: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Sage: to taste
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)- cold
Buckwheat flour: 1cup(140 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(60 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)- cold
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Note + the resting time for the dough

instructions:
To prepare the galette with potatoes and cheese, pour the flours into the bowl , add salt and mix. Add the cold diced butter , and knead quickly with your fingertips as if pinching the dough.
Pour in the cold water and knead quickly in the bowl again . When the dough begins to come together , move to the workbench and knead briefly , until you get a homogeneous mixture. Form a ball, wrap it in plastic wrap , and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 - 40 minutes.
Peel the potatoes and cut them in half and then into slices of half an inch . Cook the potatoes in plenty of salted boiling water for about 10 minutes .
After the time has passed , drain the potatoes and let them cool slightly. Season the potatoes with oil and salt .
Chop the herbs and add the chopped herbs to the potatoes to flavor them . Cut the cheese into cubes of about 0.2 inches .
Remove the shortcrust pastry from the fridge, sprinkle the work surface with buckwheat flour, and roll out the dough to a thickness of about 0.01 inches . Then roll the pastry around the rolling pin and unroll it over a fluted mold (bottom base 8.5 inches, top base 10.25 inches) lined with parchment paper. Prick the base with a fork .
Stuff with the potatoes and cubed cheese , then fold the edges towards the center .
Pinch the pastry to seal it , then bake in a static oven at 392°F for 20 minutes. Continue cooking in a fan-assisted mode for another 15 minutes. Remove from oven and let it cool slightly before removing from the mold and serving the galette with potatoes and cheese .
Store in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. The cooked galette can be frozen.
Try to work the shortcrust pastry in a cool place and on a cool surface, as a warm environment could soften the butter too much, making it difficult to roll out. If necessary, during the rolling process, put the shortcrust pastry back in the refrigerator for a few minutes to lower the temperature.

