name:
Rice salad with vegetables and peanuts
ingredients:
Rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)- for salads
Carrots: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Baby Zucchini (summer squash): 1 ¾cup(200 g)- with flowers
Red spring onions: 5oz(140 g)
Radishes: 3.5oz(100 g)
Spinach: 2cups(60 g)
Roasted salted peanuts: ⅓cup(50 g)
Lime peel: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.7tbsp(50 g)
Lime juice: 1oz(30 g)
Soy sauce: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Fresh ginger: 0.7oz(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Rice salad with vegetables and peanuts is a perfect dish to enjoy during the warm season! This is a particularly fresh and nutritious version of the classic rice salad because it is enriched with raw ingredients: in this way, the vegetables maintain their vitamins, fibers, and minerals, with the added benefits of nuts. We used carrots, radishes, zucchini, and zucchini flowers for a delightful mix of colors and textures; for the dressing, we chose a condiment based on lime juice, soy sauce, and ginger, which gives it an unusual exotic and spicy note! Tasty and original, rice salad with vegetables and peanuts is also an ideal dish for those following a vegetarian or vegan diet. Discover also how to prepare a tasty Venus rice salad with vegetables and shrimp !
To prepare the rice salad with vegetables and peanuts, first cook the rice in boiling salted water for about 10 minutes . After this time, drain the rice and cool it under running water, then transfer it to a bowl, season with a drizzle of oil , and let it cool down. In the meantime, prepare the vegetables: peel the carrots and cut them into julienne strips .
Separate the flowers from the zucchini and trim them , then cut them into julienne strips as well . Carefully open the flowers and remove the internal stem .
Cut the flowers into thin strips . Clean and slice the radishes and the spring onion into thin rounds.
Finally, peel the ginger and chop it into pieces . Put the ginger in a mixing container, then pour in the lime juice and the oil .
Blend with an immersion blender, then add the soy sauce and blend again until you get a smooth and homogeneous sauce .
At this point, transfer all the vegetables into a large bowl: the zucchini with their flowers , the carrots , and the radishes .
Add the spring onion and the spinach, previously washed and dried , then season with the dressing and mix well.
Add the rice and mix again , then add a hint of grated lime zest .
Finally, add a pinch of ground pepper and the toasted peanuts . Give it a final mix, and your rice salad with vegetables and peanuts is ready to be enjoyed !
The rice salad with vegetables and peanuts can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 1-2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can use your favorite vegetables, depending on the season!

