name:
Chocolate and Cherry Crumb Cake
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 2.5oz(75 g)
Cherries: 4cups(600 g)- to be pitted
Type 00 flour: 1cup(135 g)
Butter: 0.3lb(135 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 0.67cup(125 g)
Brown sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Almond flour: 5 ½tbsp(35 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(115 ml)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(30 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp(10 g)
Peeled almonds: ½cup(60 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 3 ¼tbsp(25 g)
Almond flour: ¾cup(75 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Brown sugar: 0.4cup(75 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Butter: 2.6oz(75 g)- cold from the fridge

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low

instructions:
If you are a chocolate lover and don't want to miss out even during the summer, you just have to elevate your passion... "to the cube"! The chocolate and cherry crumb cake is an irresistible treat for a delicious snack, to be served cut into cubes. A fragrant dark chocolate batter is flavored with toasted almonds and softened by the presence of juicy red cherries. The characteristic of the crumb cake, which we have also made with summer fruits or Crumb cake with pears is the crumble on the first layer that gives the cake a crunchy and slightly savory note. A perfect combination of softness underneath and crumbly crumbs on top, all ready to be bitten!
To prepare the chocolate and cherry crumb cake, start by pitting the cherries . Then slice the almonds and toast them in a pan for a few moments over high heat (a few seconds will suffice to avoid burning them). Then in the bowl of a stand mixer (you can also work the batter with an electric mixer) pour the softened butter and brown sugar ;
Add the almond flour and beat the mixture into a cream; then add the eggs one at a time, waiting for the first one to be incorporated before proceeding with the next . Then add the granulated sugar. While continuing to mix, in a small bowl, gather the dark chocolate melted in a double boiler (or in the microwave); once it has cooled slightly, add the previously heated heavy cream and mix the mixture .
Add the cream and chocolate to the mixer and continue working the batter; then sift the flour, baking powder, and unsweetened cocoa powder and add the dry ingredients to the mixture .
Mix everything to achieve a smooth and dense consistency , then pour the batter into a deep 8x12 inch pan lined with parchment paper previously dampened to spread it more easily in the pan. Pour the batter and then distribute the cherries evenly along with the almond slices (11-12).
Now prepare the crumble; if you are using a food processor you can add all the ingredients together: the unsweetened cocoa, almond flour, all-purpose flour, brown sugar , cold butter cut into pieces , and a generous pinch of salt (if you don't like a strong salty note, you can reduce the salt amount). Then blend everything ; this way the crumble will have a finer texture.
If you prefer a coarser crumble, you can quickly work all the ingredients with your hands in a small bowl ; spread the crumble over the entire surface of the cake and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 1 hour (320°F for 50 minutes if fan-assisted). Once cooked, remove the chocolate and cherry crumb cake from the oven and let it cool slightly . You can cut it into cubes to serve it more easily as the consistency will be very soft.
Store the chocolate and cherry crumb cake under a glass dome for 2-3 days. You can also store it in the refrigerator and bring it back to room temperature half an hour before serving or slightly heat it in the microwave. You can freeze the crumb cake after it has cooled, on the day you make it or at most the day after.
Choose beautiful large and tasty cherries, perhaps the Vignola variety which are very juicy and dark! If you prefer other combinations with cocoa, you can make the chocolate crumb cake with pears instead of cherries, or with raspberries!

