name:
Spelt and Cherry Tart
ingredients:
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- cold
Type 00 flour: 1.9cups(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Lemon peel: 1- untreated
Cherries: 2.2lbs(1.2 kg)
Vanilla bean: 1
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Lemons: 2- zest and juice (100 g)
Spelt flour: 0.6cup(70 g)
Almond flour: 1cup(100 g)
Almonds: ½cup(70 g)- unpeeled
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- soft
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 5- medium

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + resting time for the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
The spelt and cherry tart is a very rich and fragrant cake, which features a delightful filling of Cherry and Vanilla Compote , almonds, and spelt flour inside a shell of crumbly lemon shortcrust pastry. The rustic touch of spelt gives this sweet preparation a very particular taste, making it ideal for breakfast or a snack, but also the perfect accompaniment to a scoop of vanilla ice cream at dessert time. The enticing heart of cherry compote will win you over, and you won't be able to resist a second slice!
To prepare the spelt and cherry tart, start by making the cherry compote. In a heavy-bottomed saucepan, add the cherries, washed and pitted, along with the sugar , the vanilla pulp and the emptied pod, which you will remove at the end of cooking .
Grate in the lemon zest and also add the filtered juice , then give it a good stir and turn on the heat: keep the flame medium until it boils, then lower it and continue cooking gently.
After about 40 minutes, when the compote reaches 226°F , it's ready to be removed from the heat. Set it aside and proceed to prepare the shortcrust. In a mixer, place the sifted flour, a pinch of salt, and the butter just taken out of the fridge and coarsely chopped . Blend everything until you get a sandy consistency .
Pour the obtained mixture onto a work surface (or into a bowl) and add the sifted icing sugar; create a fountain shape and pour the grated lemon zest and the egg yolks in the center. Mix everything initially with a fork, then when the eggs have absorbed the flour, you can continue by hand. Knead just long enough to compact the dough so that the shortcrust does not warm up too much with the heat of your hands and remains crumbly.
Form a dough ball and flatten it before wrapping it in plastic wrap ; place it in the refrigerator to firm up for at least 30 minutes. Then move on to the spelt filling. Put the almond flour, unpeeled almonds, and spelt flour in the mixer and also add half of the sugar .
Blend until you get a very fine powder . Transfer it to the stand mixer and add the soft butter in chunks and turn on the beaters. Then separate the egg whites from the yolks .
And add the latter to the stand mixer, continuing to beat . Set the mixture aside. Separately, whip the egg whites with the remaining sugar, adding it in two or three batches , until they reach stiff peaks .
In a bowl, at this point, combine the spelt and almond mixture with the whipped egg whites , gently mixing them together with the spatula from bottom to top . Take the shortcrust pastry and roll it out into a sheet about 0.6 inches thick .
With the help of a rolling pin, unfold the shortcrust pastry sheet inside a 9.5-inch diameter greased and floured cake pan . Press the dough against the mold and with a knife, cut away the excess dough from the edges , keeping it aside for decorations. Pour the cherry compote inside the lined cake pan .
And spread it evenly on the bottom. Now pour the almond and spelt mixture over the cherry base and level it well with a spatula . From the leftover and rolled-out shortcrust, cut strips .
Lay them on the surface of the cake, crossing them to form the classic lattice pattern . The cake is ready to be baked . Bake it in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 40 minutes, checking at the end of cooking .
The spelt and cherry tart can be stored in the fridge, covered, for 2-3 days.
Before cutting your spelt and cherry tart, wait for it to cool; you can also prepare it the day before!

