name:
Cherry Plumcake
ingredients:
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)-
Eggs: 3
Potato starch: 0.4cup(50 g)
Cherries: 2cups(300 g)- pitted
Baking powder: 4tsp(16 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Vanilla bean: 1-
Butter: 0.8cup(180 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste- to flour the cherries

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
One cherry leads to another, as we know... besides eating them naturally, we also love preparing tasty sweet recipes with this summer fruit, such as cheesecake, clafoutis, or puff pastry swirl ! You must also try this delicious cherry plumcake, a perfect dessert for breakfast, a tasty snack, tea with friends, and, why not, also as a dessert. The plumcake is a soft and extremely appreciated dessert by both adults and children for its genuineness and softness, and if you want to try a variant of the classic English Plumcake or yogurt plumcake , we propose this summer version with the addition of cherries, which give an extra touch of color and flavor to this tasty and fragrant cake, suitable for any occasion.
To prepare the cherry plumcake, start by removing the stems from the cherries, wash them, dry them, and pit them (if you don’t have a pitter, you can make an incision with a knife and extract the pit). Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 320°F and place the sugar along with the butter in a bowl , then take a vanilla bean, cut it open, extract the seeds
and add them to the mixture . Begin mixing with the beaters , then add the eggs ,
continue to mix until you obtain a homogeneous mixture and also add a pinch of salt. When all the ingredients are incorporated, place the flour, starch, and baking powder in a bowl , and then sift everything into the egg and butter mixture , mixing well .
Then place the cherries in a baking dish and sprinkle them with flour ; when they are all floured, shake them in a sieve to remove the excess flour .
Grease a 1.5-liter plumcake mold and line it with baking paper: place half of the mixture on the bottom of the mold , then sprinkle half of the pitted cherries over it . Cover them with the remaining batter ,
then pour in the remaining cherries . Bake in a preheated oven at 320°F for about 70-80 minutes. Do the toothpick test to see how the baking is progressing, and once ready, let it cool, then remove it from the mold and your cherry plumcake is ready to be enjoyed !
Store the cherry plumcake under a glass dome for a maximum of 3-4 days.
To get a great cherry plumcake, you must ensure these small fruits are firm, ripe, and flavorful.

