name:
Guitar spaghetti with cuttlefish ink, mussels and prawns
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Semolina: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Eggs: 4
Egg yolks: 1
Cuttlefish ink: ½tbsp(8 g)
Salt: 1pinch
Mussels: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Shrimps: 10.5oz(300 g)
Canned tomatoes: ½cup(100 g)
Shallot: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
White wine: ½glass
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time of the dough in the refrigerator (30 min.)

instructions:
Guitar spaghetti with cuttlefish ink, mussels, and prawns is a first course that combines the tradition of homemade fresh pasta with the bold and intense flavors of seafood. The cuttlefish ink, with its characteristic dark color and unique taste, gives the spaghetti an elegant appearance. The mussels and prawns add an even more intense sea flavor. The mussel sauce prepared with tomato pulp and shallots provides a tasty and velvety base that binds all the ingredients in a perfect embrace. Guitar spaghetti with cuttlefish ink, mussels, and prawns is ideal for an elegant dinner or a special occasion: you can impress your guests with a sophisticated and flavorful dish!
If you are looking for other first courses with cuttlefish ink, also try:

To prepare guitar spaghetti with cuttlefish ink, mussels, and prawns, start with the fresh pasta: on a work surface, mix all-purpose flour and semolina flour . Form the classic fountain and pour the eggs and yolk into the center . Add a pinch of salt and the cuttlefish ink .
Combine the mixture first with a dough scraper and then continue working with your hands until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough ball . Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest for 30 minutes in the fridge.
In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, add the chili pepper, garlic, and mussels . Deglaze with white wine and cover with the lid , then cook until they open.
Once opened, strain and keep the cooking liquid. Remove the shells and set aside . Peel and finely slice the shallot .
In a pot, pour a drizzle of oil, add the shallot and let it sauté for a few minutes. Pour the tomato pulp and cook for 15 minutes. Then add half of the mussels and let them season for a few minutes .
Blend everything with an immersion blender until you get a smooth and homogeneous sauce . Set aside. Roll out the dough into sheets 0.08 inches thick .
Cut the sheets into smaller rectangles and place them on the guitar, then cut them by rolling the rolling pin over them . Place the guitar spaghetti on a clean towel dusted with semolina .
Meanwhile, clean the prawns: remove the head, shell , and vein , then collect the flesh in a bowl .
In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, add the prawns and sauté them for a few minutes, then deglaze with the mussel cooking water . Also add the remaining mussels and cook for a few minutes, just enough time to combine the ingredients.
Transfer mussels and prawns to a bowl and leave the cooking liquid in the pan, as it will be needed later. Cook the spaghetti in plenty of boiling salted water , drain them and transfer them to the pan where you cooked the mussels and prawns .
Add mussels and prawns , a few fresh marjoram leaves and toss with a drizzle of oil .
Place the mussel cream at the bottom of the plate , arrange the spaghetti in a nest and complete with prawns, mussels , and a few marjoram leaves. Guitar spaghetti with cuttlefish ink, mussels, and prawns is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume guitar spaghetti with cuttlefish ink, mussels, and prawns immediately; if they should be left over, you can store them in the fridge in an airtight container for up to 2 days.
Do not cook mussels and prawns for too long because they would become rubbery and flavorless.
Besides fresh marjoram, you can use your preferred aromatic herbs!

