name:
Éclair with cream and chocolate
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(155 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(125 g)
Water: 8 ½tbsp(125 g)
Butter: ½cup(110 g)
Eggs: 3
Fine salt: to taste
Whole milk: 1cup(230 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Powdered sugar: 0.3cup(40 g)
Cornstarch: 3 ¾tsp(10 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.375oz(10 g)
Vanilla extract: to taste
Dark chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
White chocolate: 7.1oz(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 11 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + cooling times

instructions:
They are made from choux pastry like cream puffs , but have a more elongated shape... we are talking about Éclair , the delicious pastries of French origin! Today we present you with a particularly enticing version, the cream and chocolate éclairs. The classic filling made from pastry cream in this case is paired with a Chocolate glaze or white chocolate glaze , depending on what you choose to eat! An unbeatable duo that never disappoints, and will be loved by both adults and children. Making them is not difficult, but you need to pay attention to the different steps and, above all, to the baking. Practice by following our recipe for cream and chocolate éclairs, and then let your imagination run wild with other irresistible variations, both sweet and savory, such as:

To make the cream and chocolate éclairs, first prepare the choux pastry: in a saucepan, pour in the butter , milk , and water . Turn on the heat and let everything melt.
Once it reaches a boil, add the flour all at once , then quickly stir with a wooden spoon . When the mixture becomes compact and detaches from the sides of the saucepan , turn off the heat and let it cool for a couple of minutes.
Transfer the mixture to a bowl and add one egg at a time , mixing well to incorporate it; make sure it's fully absorbed before adding the next one. Also, add a pinch of salt. Don't worry if the mixture seems to separate at first; keep mixing to obtain a smooth, consistent dough .
Transfer the dough into a piping bag without a nozzle and cut the tip to a width of about 0.6 inches. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and form strips about 4-5 inches long , spacing them apart . Bake in a preheated static oven at 338°F for about 45 minutes, being careful not to open the oven during baking.
Meanwhile, prepare the pastry cream: pour the milk into a saucepan and bring it to a simmer. Meanwhile, in a bowl, combine the egg yolks, cornstarch , and flour .
Add the powdered sugar and mix well with a whisk, then pour in the hot milk and mix again .
Return the mixture to the saucepan , add the vanilla extract , and stir over low heat until you achieve a thick, homogeneous consistency .
Transfer the cream to a bowl , cover with cling film, ensuring it touches the surface , and place it in the refrigerator to cool. After the baking time, remove the éclairs from the oven and let them cool as well .
At this point, take the pastry cream and transfer it to a piping bag with a 0.4 inch nozzle. Fill the éclairs by piercing the bottom, about halfway along the length . Once filled, proceed with the glaze: melt the two types of chocolate in a double boiler or microwave, then gently dip the top of the éclairs into the dark chocolate or white chocolate , alternating the two glazes.
Place the glazed éclairs on a rack to dry . Finally, transfer the remaining glazes into two piping bags with a very thin nozzle and decorate the éclairs by creating lines with contrasting chocolate . Let them dry and serve your beautiful cream and chocolate éclairs !
Cream and chocolate éclairs can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
You can store unfilled éclairs in a tin box for 1-2 days.
The pastry cream can be prepared in advance and stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, covered with cling film.
The presence of both cornstarch and flour in the pastry cream is to achieve an optimal consistency.
If you prefer, you can use the special silicone mat to shape the éclairs.

