name:
Chicken breast and zucchini rolls
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (thin slices)
Zucchini: 3 ¼cups(400 g)- clear
Prosciutto cotto: 7oz(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)
Lemon peel: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Cooking chicken breast in a delightful way is one of our favorite challenges and today, with our chicken breast and zucchini rolls, we have definitely succeeded! Not the usual grilled slices but oven-baked rolls, easy and quick to prepare and truly delicious to eat. Inside, you'll find slices of zucchini and cooked ham, but you can enrich them with other vegetables, cured meats, and cheeses to satisfy everyone's taste or to create a multi-flavor tray! What makes them so special is the breading enriched with Parmesan and lemon zest, which gives a unique aroma. Discover the doses and procedure to make these chicken breast and zucchini rolls at home, a main course that conquers everyone's palate! Here are other chicken rolls to try:

To prepare the chicken breast and zucchini rolls, start with the breading: in a bowl, pour the breadcrumbs and grated Parmigiano Reggiano PDO . Season with salt, pepper , and the grated zest of a lemon .
Mix and set aside for a moment. Now wash the zucchinis thoroughly and trim them , then slice them with a vegetable peeler or a mandolin .
You need to obtain very thin slices, about 1/25 inch thick . At this point, take the chicken breast slices; they should be thin. Dip them first in oil from both sides and then in the breading .
Continue this way until all the slices are well breaded on both sides . Now lay one on a cutting board, place a couple of slices of zucchini on top , and add a slice of cooked ham .
Roll it up to form a roll , then cut it in half . Place the rolls in a 9-inch-wide baking dish lined with parchment paper .
Sprinkle with the leftover breading and add a drizzle of oil . Bake in a fan oven at 355°F for about 30-35 minutes, until golden . Transfer the chicken and zucchini rolls to a plate and serve immediately !
The chicken and zucchini rolls can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. We do not recommend freezing.
You can enrich the breading with Pecorino or with chopped aromatic herbs.

