name:
Monkfish on Purple Potato Cream
ingredients:
Monkfish: 1.75lbs(800 g)- (4 slices)
Lime: 1- (juice and zest)
Marjoram: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Purple potatoes: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Garlic: 2cloves
Water: 1.67cups(400 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
With its lean, firm, and boneless flesh, monkfish is a highly appreciated sea fish in cooking, ideal for a variety of preparations. Monkfish on purple potato cream is a simple yet refined main course, perfect for special occasion menus! The lime-based marinade will give the monkfish a fresh and lively aroma, thanks also to the quick pan cooking that preserves its flavor and texture. Complementing the dish is the rosemary-infused purple potato cream, which not only provides a pleasant color contrast but also enriches the dish with its soft and velvety texture. A few marjoram leaves and your monkfish on purple potato cream is ready to impress your guests!
Try these monkfish recipes too:

To prepare the monkfish on purple potato cream, first season the fish: place the monkfish steaks in a baking dish and season with salt , pepper, lime zest , and lime juice .
Add the oil and marjoram leaves . Turn the steaks on both sides to season them evenly, then cover with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator while you continue with the rest of the recipe.
Now focus on the potatoes: peel the purple potatoes and cut them first into slices and then into cubes .
In a pot, heat a splash of oil with garlic and rosemary sprigs , then add the potatoes and sauté over medium-high heat for 2-3 minutes, stirring often .
Salt, pepper, and add the water , then cover with the lid and cook over medium heat for about 20 minutes. After this time, remove the garlic and rosemary .
Turn off the heat and blend with an immersion blender to obtain a creamy puree ; if it's too thick, you can add a little water. Keep the potato cream warm and take the monkfish: heat a non-stick pan with a drizzle of oil, place the steaks and cook over medium heat for a total of 5-6 minutes, turning them on both sides .
Once cooked, divide the steaks in half . You are ready to plate: place the cream on the bottom of the plate and place a halved monkfish steak on top .
Complete with marjoram leaves , a drizzle of oil , and a grind of pepper. Your monkfish on purple potato cream is ready to be served !
It is recommended to serve the monkfish on purple potato cream immediately.
You can prepare the purple potato cream in advance and store it in the refrigerator for 1-2 days in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of monkfish, you can use other types of fish like sea bream or sea bass, preferably already filleted and deboned.
You can replace the lime with citrus fruits of your choice.

