name:
Shrimp and Vegetable Dumplings
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Type 0 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Water: 0.8cup(200 g)- boiling
Shrimps: 5.3oz(150 g)- (weight after cleaning)
Zucchini: 2
Carrots: 2
Soy sauce: to taste
Rice vinegar: to taste
Water: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Natural plain yogurt: ½cup(100 g)
Hot sauce: to taste
Sesame seeds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Craving for Chinese dumplings ? Make them yourself with our shrimp and vegetable dumpling recipe! A delightful appetizer for an ethnic dinner or an original idea to serve for an aperitif, accompanied by the spicy yogurt sauce we suggest here. These delicious dumplings are filled with shrimp, zucchini, and carrots and are pan-fried for a crispy and golden result. Perfect to enjoy with classic chopsticks, shrimp and vegetable dumplings require patience and precision to be closed correctly, but as you make them, you'll become more skilled and turn into a true master!
Challenge yourself with other dumpling variations:
Discover more delicious Asian recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the shrimp and vegetable dumplings, start with the dough: combine the flours in a bowl , then pour in the boiling water and mix with a fork .
Transfer the mixture to the work surface and knead with your hands until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough . Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature for 30 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the filling: clean the shrimp by removing the head and legs, then remove the intestine and shell. Cut the flesh into pieces .
Grate the zucchini and carrots with a coarse grater . Transfer the zucchini to a large bowl .
Also add the carrots and shrimp , then pour in the rice vinegar .
Season with soy sauce and mix well , then adjust the salt .
After the dough's resting time, roll it out on a lightly floured surface to form a thin sheet 1/8 inch . Cut the sheet with an 8 cm diameter cookie cutter , then place a spoonful in the center .
Fold the disc into a half-moon shape and seal the opening by making small pleats, first on one side and then on the other .
When all the dumplings are ready , proceed to cooking: heat a little oil in a pan, then place the dumplings and brown them for a few minutes over medium heat. When they are golden, deglaze with soy sauce .
Add a little water , cover with the lid and let it absorb for a couple of minutes, then uncover and let the remaining liquid evaporate .
For the yogurt sauce: pour the yogurt and hot sauce into a small bowl , then mix to obtain a homogeneous sauce .
Plate the dish by finishing with a few drops of sauce and sesame seeds . Your shrimp and vegetable dumplings are ready to be served !
Shrimp and vegetable dumplings can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day, in an airtight container.
You can freeze the stuffed dumplings raw if you used fresh ingredients; then cook them directly from frozen, extending the cooking time.
To close the dumplings well, you can help by wetting the edges of the dough with a little water.

