name:
Bresaola Sushi
ingredients:
Rice for sushi: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Water: 1cup(250 g)
Rice vinegar: 2 ¾tbsp(40 g)
Sugar: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Bresaola: 6.3oz(180 g)
Zucchini: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Cream cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Nori seaweed: 4leaves
Almond milk: 0.4cup(100 g)- chilled from the fridge
Sunflower seed oil: 7oz(200 g)- cold from refrigerator
Ponzu sauce: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- (or teriyaki)
Zucchini: 1- small
Sesame seeds: to taste
Black sesame seeds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Note + 1 hour of rice resting time

instructions:
Bresaola sushi represents an enticing fusion between Japanese tradition and the flavors of Italian cuisine. This finger food reinvents the classic concept of Homemade Sushi , replacing raw fish with bresaola, the typical cured meat from Valtellina. The result is a dish that maintains the iconic shape of sushi but with a completely new taste that satisfies even the most demanding palates. The bresaola, with its delicate flavor, perfectly wraps the Sushi rice: how to cook it and which one to choose , creating a harmonious balance between sweet and salty. The addition of fresh ingredients, such as zucchini and creamy cheese, provides a pleasant note of freshness. Bresaola sushi brings a touch of originality and refinement to the table and is therefore ideal for both elegant appetizers and informal dinners or special events. Perfect for those who love to experiment with new flavors without straying too far from tradition, this dish is a delight that conquers at the first taste.
Also, discover these original sushi variations:

To prepare bresaola sushi, start by cooking the rice: wash the rice to remove impurities until the water is clear, then let it soak for an hour. Drain the rice and let it rest in the colander for 5 minutes. In a pot, pour 250 ml (about 1 cup) of water and the rice .
Cover with the lid , bring to a boil, and stir. Cook over medium heat for 5 minutes, then lower the heat and cook for another 7 minutes over low heat. At this point, move the pot off the heat and let it rest for another 6 minutes without removing the lid. Then put the pot back on medium heat for another 30 seconds. The texture should be slightly al dente. In a small pot, prepare the syrup by pouring the rice vinegar .
Add the sugar and salt , then heat everything over low heat for 4-5 minutes . Set the syrup aside.
Take the hangiri, a low and wide wooden container used for seasoning the rice. Wet it with water and pour in the cooked rice , then add the syrup . Stir the rice by cutting through it to avoid squashing. Cover it with a damp cloth and set aside.
Trim a zucchini and cut it in half , then remove the inner part with the seeds and cut it into sticks . Season with salt and pepper and set aside.
Prepare the mayonnaise: in a tall container pour the almond milk , the ponzu or teriyaki sauce , and the sunflower oil .
Blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth sauce , then set aside. Wrap a sushi mat with plastic wrap .
Place 4 slices of bresaola as a base, slightly overlapping them , then add a layer of rice .
Distribute the rice layer evenly , then place the nori seaweed in the center and add a zucchini stick .
Cover the zucchini with the spreadable cheese previously transferred to a piping bag . Lift the mat applying slight pressure and form a roll.
Unroll the mat and place the obtained roll on a cutting board. With a sharp and oiled knife, cut into 6 pieces . With the indicated doses, you will get 4 rolls for a total of 24 pieces. Transfer them to a tray and sprinkle with black and white sesame seeds .
Peel another zucchini and cut the peel into thin strips , which will be used for decoration. On a plate, put a spoonful of mayonnaise .
With a spatula (or the back of the spoon), spread the mayonnaise on the plate dropwise, arrange the rolls , garnish with rolled-up zucchini peels , and immediately serve your bresaola sushi !
Bresaola sushi can be stored for one day in the refrigerator.
Instead of zucchini, you can use bell peppers or cucumbers.

