name:
Chickpea and Tuna Salad
ingredients:
Cherry tomatoes: 1cup(200 g)
Precooked chickpeas: 2 ½cups(460 g)
Tuna in water: 5.6oz(160 g)
Basil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Lemon peel: ½
Lemon juice: ½
Old-fashioned mustard: ½tsp(3 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.3tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
The chickpea and tuna salad is the ideal recipe for those looking for a fresh, light, and nutritious dish, perfect for a light menu and everyday meals. Easy and quick to prepare, this salad is ready in a few minutes and combines the simplicity of Mediterranean ingredients like tuna, chickpeas, and tomatoes. The added touch is the mustard citronette, which gives the dish a citrusy and slightly spicy note, perfect for enhancing the flavors. Versatile and light, the chickpea and tuna salad is perfect for a quick lunch, a summer dinner, or to take to work as a packed lunch. A simple and balanced dish that never gets boring and suits any occasion.
If you're a salad lover, here's a small selection for all seasons:
To prepare the chickpea and tuna salad, first wash the cherry tomatoes, quarter them , and transfer them to a bowl. Add the pre-cooked chickpeas , previously rinsed and well-drained, and the chopped basil .
Break the tuna into pieces, with your hands or a fork, and add it to the bowl . Mix and adjust the salt .
Now focus on preparing the mustard citronette. In a bowl, grate the zest of one lemon , add its juice and the salt .
Pour the oil in a thin stream while simultaneously mixing with a whisk , alternatively, you can also use an immersion blender. When the citronette is emulsified, add the mustard and mix again .
Dress the salad , mix , and plate. Your chickpea and tuna salad is ready to be served .
The chickpea and tuna salad can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for 1 day.
You can enrich the salad with black olives, capers, and red onion for a more Mediterranean flavor. For a crunchy note, you can add cucumbers, bell peppers, or radishes. Substitute some of the chickpeas with cannellini beans or lentils for an even richer source of plant proteins.

