name:
Swordfish cutlet with puntarelle salad
ingredients:
Swordfish: 0.9lb(400 g)
Panko: 0.7cup(150 g)
Corn flakes: 5.3cups(150 g)- (unsalted)
Rice flour: 1cup(150 g)
Eggs: 4
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Vegetable oil: 2.3cups(500 g)- (for frying)
Puntarelle (chicory): 7oz(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 5tbsp(70 g)
Wildflower honey: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Old-fashioned mustard: 2tsp(10 g)
Lemon juice: 1
Water: to taste
Ice: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: 1 ⅛cup(250 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Lemon peel: ½
Oranges: 1- (the juice, the pulp, and the zest)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 1 h 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Are you looking for a seafood main course that no one can resist? Here's the recipe for swordfish cutlet with puntarelle salad, a gourmet dish simple to prepare and incredibly tasty, created by the young and talented Davide Marzullo, chef of Trattoria Contemporanea , in our kitchens. The breaded swordfish is particularly crunchy thanks to the mix of Homemade Panko and corn flakes, and pairs very well with the freshness and citrusy aroma of the puntarelle salad . A touch of homemade lemon mayonnaise, moreover, makes the swordfish cutlet even more delicious and inviting. Follow the step-by-step procedure and you'll discover that swordfish has never been so appetizing!
To make the swordfish cutlet with puntarelle salad, start with the side dish: first, separate the green shoots and set them aside in a bowl with ice water, then remove the base's end. Divide the head in half and use a mandoline to slice it thinly .
Also add the rest of the puntarelle to the bowl with ice water and let them soak for about 20 minutes. In the meantime, prepare the citronette: pour the extra virgin olive oil into a bowl along with the mustard and honey , then salt and pepper.
Add a couple of tablespoons of lemon juice and emulsify with an immersion blender , then taste and decide if you need to adjust the flavor and consistency with the remaining lemon juice .
Move on to the orange: grate the zest being careful not to include the white part , then peel the orange down to the flesh and cut into the flesh to extract only the segments .
Squeeze the orange scraps to obtain the juice , then cut the flesh segments into 3 or 4 parts . Add the orange flesh and zest to the bowl with the juice and set aside.
For the lemon mayonnaise: place the egg yolks in a bowl, then add the zest and lemon juice and whisk quickly with electric beaters to prevent the lemon's acidity from cooking the eggs .
At this point, salt and pepper , then turn the beaters to medium speed again and pour in the seed oil in a thin stream . Taste and adjust if necessary with salt, pepper, and lemon. You should achieve a firm yet still soft consistency . Refrigerate the mayonnaise until serving time; for convenience, you can transfer it into a piping bag without a tip.
Now you can prepare the swordfish cutlet, starting with the breading: put the rice flour in a bowl, then beat the eggs in a second bowl after seasoning with salt and pepper . Roughly crush the corn flakes with your hands and add them to a third bowl with the panko, mixing well. Cut the swordfish into 4 steaks each weighing about 3.5-5 oz, using a smooth-bladed knife .
First, pass the steaks in the rice flour, removing the excess , then in the eggs , and finally in the panko and corn flakes mixture, pressing well to adhere . For an even crunchier breading, repeat the egg and panko-corn flakes mixture step once more.
Once all the cutlets are breaded, place them in the refrigerator for a few minutes so the breading doesn't come off . After this time, heat the seed oil to a temperature of 347°-356°F and fry one cutlet at a time for about 3 minutes; use a spider to keep the cutlet immersed in the oil without touching the pan's base . When the surface is crispy and golden, drain and transfer to absorbent paper or for frying.
Salt and pepper the fried cutlets, then let them rest for a few minutes. In the meantime, drain the puntarelle and dress them with the citronette .
You are ready to plate: divide the swordfish cutlet in half by first making an incision with a serrated knife and continue the cut with a smooth-bladed knife . Squeeze a couple of dots of mayonnaise at the center of the plate and place the halved cutlet on top with the cut side facing up, lightly salt, and garnish with more mayonnaise .
Add the puntarelle salad on top, making sure to include both the white and green parts . Finish with the orange , a grind of pepper, and a drizzle of oil. Your swordfish cutlet with puntarelle salad is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the swordfish cutlet with puntarelle salad immediately.
We recommend using organic lemons and oranges.
Be careful not to slice the puntarelle head base: it is not suitable for salads but is excellent for making homemade vegetable broth!
You can use seed oil instead of extra virgin olive oil for the citronette if you prefer a milder taste.
Dress the puntarelle just before serving, otherwise, they will lose their crunchiness.
Instead of panko, toasted and blended stale bread will work just fine.

