name:
Warm broad bean and chicory salad
ingredients:
Fava beans: 4.4lbs(1.5 kg)- (to clean)
Chickory: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Pecorino cheese: 2oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Dijon mustard: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- Old style
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 g)
Orange juice: 1oz(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
If you're wondering how to cook fava beans, today we want to show you a recipe that's different from the usual. Not the usual Pasta and broad beans , but a delicious warm salad of fava beans and chicory, enriched with a freshly made sauce and lots of pecorino shavings. The Fava Bean Salad is a typical spring recipe, a rich and flavorful side dish, easy to prepare by following our recipe. We chose to peel the fava beans to fully appreciate their sweetness, but if they are small and tender, you can choose to skip this step. What makes this salad so special is definitely the dressing: an emulsion made with lemon juice, orange juice, oil, and Whole Grain Dijon Mustard that enhances the flavor of the dish. The pecorino shavings add a decisive touch and complete the warm fava bean and chicory salad in a truly tasty way! If you enjoyed this recipe, here are more to try:

To prepare the warm fava bean and chicory salad, first shell the fava beans and collect them in a small bowl . Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Meanwhile, clean the chicory: remove the lower part , then separate the stems from the leaves .
If they are very long, divide the leaf part in half . Once the water comes to a boil, blanch the fava beans for 2-3 minutes , then drain them and transfer them to ice water .
Now blanch the chicory in the same water. First, immerse the stems and wait a couple of minutes, then add the leaf part . Cook for another 2-3 minutes, then transfer to ice water . Drain well and sauté them in a pan with garlic and oil. It will take just 2-3 minutes. Season with salt and turn off the heat.
Peel the fava beans at this point . Then mix fava beans and chicory in a small bowl . Prepare the dressing: pour the orange juice and lemon juice into a small bowl .
Add a pinch of salt and Whole Grain Dijon Mustard . Slowly pour in the oil while mixing to create an emulsion .
Make pecorino shavings . Plate the warm fava bean and chicory salad, dress with the dressing , add the pecorino shavings and serve !
We recommend serving the warm fava bean and chicory salad immediately after dressing. Alternatively, you can store the undressed vegetables in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. Cooked chicory and fava beans can be frozen.
Fava beans can also be eaten unpeeled; however, they will be less tender. To sweeten the sauce, you can also add a little honey.

