name:
Quinoa Salad with Edamame and Vegetables
ingredients:
Quinoa: 1.9cups(320 g)
Edamame pasta: 7.1oz(200 g)- frozen
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)- yellow and red
Zucchini: 2- egg whites
Carrots: 2
Pine nuts: 2oz(50 g)
Parsley: to taste
Mint: to taste
Water: 2.67cups(600 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.9tbsp(25 g)
Lime juice: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Gluten-free but rich in protein, quinoa is an ancient ingredient that has recently made a comeback thanks to its numerous properties. For the warm season, we entice you with a fresh and colorful proposal: quinoa salad with edamame and vegetables! A vegetarian dish enriched with aromatic herbs and a fragrant lime vinaigrette. The zucchinis, carrots, and tomatoes added raw keep their nutrients intact, while edamame, or soybeans, are an excellent source of fiber. The crunchy touch of pine nuts, finally, makes the quinoa salad with edamame and vegetables even more inviting and appetizing!
Discover also these variations of Quinoa Salad :

To make the quinoa salad with edamame and vegetables, first rinse the quinoa under running water to remove the saponin, then drain it well. Toast the quinoa in a pot for a couple of minutes , then cover with water , salt it, and let it cook for about 8-10 minutes .
Meanwhile, bring a small pot of salted water to a boil, add the edamame and let them cook for about 5 minutes after it returns to a boil , then drain and set aside. Toast the pine nuts in a pan for 3-4 minutes and set aside.
Also prepare the vinaigrette: pour the oil and lime juice into a jar , add salt, close with the lid, and shake well to emulsify everything .
After the cooking time, the quinoa will have absorbed all the water , so let it rest for 5 minutes. Meanwhile, finish preparing the rest of the ingredients: grate both the zucchinis and the carrots with a large-hole grater .
Cut the cherry tomatoes into irregular pieces and roughly chop the parsley and mint, keeping a few leaves aside for decoration . Now you can assemble your salad: transfer the quinoa to a large bowl and add the grated zucchinis .
Also add the carrots and edamame , then dress with the vinaigrette .
Finally, pour in the aromatic herbs and cherry tomatoes . Stir to combine everything and plate.
Complete the plates with a handful of toasted pine nuts and a few mint leaves . Your quinoa salad with edamame and vegetables is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the quinoa salad with edamame and vegetables immediately. Alternatively, you can store it in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, preferably without the tomatoes.
If you like, you can add crumbled feta to make the quinoa salad with edamame and vegetables even more flavorful!

