name:
Chicken and Avocado Salad
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.5lbs(650 g)
Avocado: 1
Celery: 2 ½cups(250 g)
Precooked chickpeas: 1.3cups(200 g)- (drained weight)
Arugula: 3cups(80 g)
Lemon juice: to taste
Lemon peel: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Lemon juice: 0.1cup(35 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
How to satisfy your appetite with something fresh, light, and nutritious? Simple, with the chicken and avocado salad! A main dish perfect for the warm season because it's easy to prepare and transport, whether for an office lunch or a picnic. Along with the benefits of white meat and avocado, rich in good fats, it also includes the properties of chickpeas, celery, and arugula, which provide the body with a good dose of vitamins, minerals, fiber, and antioxidants. A genuine and healthy mix enhanced by a simple dressing made with extra virgin olive oil and lemon. Boost your energy with the chicken and avocado salad and try these tasty variations for all seasons:

To prepare the chicken and avocado salad, first divide the whole chicken breast into 2 parts , then cut them in half horizontally to get 4 slices . Salt and pepper the slices on both sides .
Place the chicken breasts on a hot grill and cook on high heat for 5-6 minutes, then flip them and lower the heat. Continue cooking, flipping the chicken breasts every 10 minutes; it will take about 30 minutes, but the time may vary depending on the thickness of the slices .
In the meantime, prepare the other ingredients: remove the strings from the celery stalks with a peeler , then cut them into pieces about 0.5-1 inch long . Cut the avocado in half and remove the pit .
Peel the flesh and cut it into cubes . Transfer the avocado to a bowl and sprinkle a few drops of lemon juice to prevent it from browning .
Next, prepare the dressing: pour the oil and lemon juice into a bowl , salt, pepper , and whisk .
When the chicken is cooked, cut it into strips . You are ready to assemble the salad: combine the celery, pre-cooked chickpeas , and avocado in a large bowl .
Add the washed and dried arugula and the chicken , then add a hint of flavor with grated lemon zest .
Finally, dress with the dressing and mix everything together . Your chicken and avocado salad is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the chicken and avocado salad immediately.
You can prepare the various ingredients in advance and add the dressing just before serving.
You can replace celery and arugula with other vegetables of your choice, such as fennel and lettuce, or add cherry tomatoes.
Instead of chickpeas, you can use cannellini beans.

