name:
Rice salad with citrus, baby spinach, and shrimp
ingredients:
Rice: 1 ½cup(300 g)- for salad
Shrimps: 16- red
Oranges: 1
Lemons: 1
Lime: 1
Spinach: 1.67cups(50 g)
Roasted salted peanuts: 0.7oz(20 g)- chopped
Fine salt: to taste
Pink peppercorn: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 7 ½tbsp(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
We welcome the summer season with a rich and wholesome main dish: the rice salad with citrus, baby spinach, and shrimp, so fresh and colorful that it will win you over at the first taste. We chose delicate-tasting red shrimp to pair with a special citrus-flavored dressing, made with a mix of oranges, lemons, and limes, a concentrate of flavor and vitamin C! Simple yet refined, this fresh rice salad is perfect to refresh you during the hottest days, which call for lightness at the table. Come discover our simple and tasty recipe!
To prepare the salad with citrus, baby spinach, and shrimp, start by cleaning the shrimp: remove the head, shell , and extract the intestine. On a cutting board, chop into small pieces to create a tartare . Pour the shrimp tartare into a bowl and season with 3.5 tbsp of oil and a pinch of salt .
Meanwhile, attend to the rice; boil it for the time indicated on the package in salted boiling water. Once ready, drain it and set it aside. Grate the lemon and orange zest .
Grate the lime zest as well and season with pink pepper. Then with a knife, peel the lemon and cut it into cubes.
Do the same for the orange and lime . Pour 3.5 tbsp of extra virgin olive oil into the bowl of zests .
Season with a pinch of salt and a little pink pepper, mix well , and dress the rice .
Add also the citrus flesh and the baby spinach that you have previously coarsely torn by hand . Mix to combine .

Stir and plate the rice, placing a quenelle of shrimp on top , and finally garnish with toasted and chopped peanuts .
We recommend consuming the rice salad with citrus, baby spinach, and shrimp immediately
To peel the citrus fruits to supreme, use a serrated knife.

