name:
Mushroom soup
ingredients:
Porcini mushrooms: 7oz(200 g)
Oyster mushroom or oyster fungus (Pleurotus): 7oz(200 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 2cups(150 g)
Chanterelle mushrooms (chanterelle): 3.5oz(100 g)
Potatoes: 0.5lb(200 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Thyme: 2sprigs
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Vegetable broth: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Homemade bread: 4slices
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average
Note + the time to prepare the vegetable broth

instructions:
To prepare the mushroom soup, first make the Vegetable broth and keep it warm. Clean the mushrooms: remove the soil from the stems of the porcini using a small knife , then gently wipe with a cloth. Separate the cap from the stem : slice the first and cube the second to about 3/4 inch .
Clean the button mushrooms and cut them into wedges . Also divide the chanterelles and the oyster mushrooms into wedges with your hands .
Peel and cut the potatoes into cubes of about 1/2 inch . Finally, finely chop the rosemary needles, chili pepper, and the garlic clove with the inner sprout removed . In a saucepan, pour some olive oil and the mixture of rosemary, garlic, and chili pepper .
Let it season for a minute , then add the potatoes and stir to brown them briefly .
Add the porcini stems , oyster mushrooms , and thyme sprigs .
Salt and pepper . Cover with vegetable broth and cook for 20 minutes on low heat. After this time, add the chanterelles .
Add the button mushrooms and the porcini caps. If necessary, pour in a bit more broth and adjust the salt. Continue cooking for another 20 minutes . Meanwhile, toast the slices of bread in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 15 minutes .
Once cooked, plate and drizzle with a bit of raw olive oil and a few thyme leaves . Your mushroom soup is ready to be served hot !
The mushroom soup can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze the soup after cooking.
You can vary the types of mushrooms depending on what you have available!

