name:
Fish ravioli with saffron sauce
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Egg yolks: 7
Fine salt: to taste
Water: to taste
Sea bass (sea bass): 1.1lbs(500 g)- (already gutted)
Garlic: 2cloves
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Breadcrumbs: ¼cup(30 g)
Vegetable broth: ¾cup(200 g)
White wine: 0.7glass(100 g)
Thyme: 1sprig
Rosemary: 1sprig
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: 1.3cups(300 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Saffron: (0.3 g)
Marjoram: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Note + 20 min. of pasta resting time

instructions:
If you are lovers of homemade fresh pasta and are looking for an elegant and flavorful first course, these fish ravioli with saffron sauce will suit your needs. The star of the recipe is saffron, a precious spice with an intense aroma and golden color, capable of transforming any dish with its unmistakable flavor. The filling for the ravioli is prepared with sea bass simply baked with the addition of aromatic herbs, while the creamy saffron sauce, velvety and enveloping, enhances its flavor. Ideal for a special occasion or to surprise your guests, fish ravioli with saffron sauce will bring a refined gourmet touch to the table!
Come and discover more fish ravioli to prepare at home:

To prepare the fish ravioli with saffron sauce, first take care of the fresh pasta: place the flour in a fountain shape on the pastry board and pour the egg yolks in the center, then add a pinch of salt and a splash of water. Start incorporating the flour by beating the eggs with a fork , then help yourself with a dough scraper.
Finally, work with your hands until you get a compact, smooth, and homogeneous dough. Wrap the dough in cling film and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 20 minutes. In the meantime, take the already gutted sea bass and cut off the fins .
Stuff the fish with aromatic herbs and garlic cloves , then place it on a baking tray, season with salt, pepper, and oil . Moisten the sea bass with vegetable broth and white wine, then bake in a preheated oven at 400°F for about 15-20 minutes.
After the fish cooking time has elapsed, fillet the sea bass by removing the skin and bones . Set aside the cooking juices of the fish, then transfer the fillets to a bowl and add the breadcrumbs .
Add the grated cheese and chopped parsley , then mix. Pour a little of the fish cooking juices .
Mix and adjust the amount of liquid based on the consistency of the mixture, which should be soft but not too compact . Transfer the filling to a piping bag without a nozzle . Now take back the dough and divide it into smaller portions with a dough scraper .
Flatten the first portion and keep the others wrapped in cling film to prevent them from drying out. Roll out the dough using a pasta machine starting from the widest setting until you reach the penultimate (about 1/16 inch). Place the sheets on the work surface and cut out discs with a 2 3/4 inch diameter cookie cutter . You can knead and roll out the scraps again.
Squeeze a dollop of filling in the center of each disc , then spray the edges with a little water to facilitate sealing . Fold each disc in half to form a half-moon and press the edges well to seal.
Join the ends by gently pushing the filled part with your thumb inward and pinching them together . Continue in this way to form all the ravioli; with these quantities, you will make about fifty .
Prepare the saffron sauce: pour a scant ladle of warm water into a small bowl , then add the saffron powder and mix .
Once the saffron has completely dissolved, set it aside . Pour the fresh cream into a small saucepan and heat it over low heat for about 10 minutes so that it reduces, then add the sea bass cooking juices .
Add the dissolved saffron , then mix and incorporate the grated cheese . Mix again, turn off the heat, and set the sauce aside.
Bring a pot of salted boiling water to a boil and cook the ravioli for 2-3 minutes , then drain them into a bowl and season with a drizzle of olive oil .
Plate by distributing a small part of the sauce on the bottom , then place the ravioli and season with more sauce on top , then garnish with marjoram leaves. Your fish ravioli with saffron sauce are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the fish ravioli with saffron sauce immediately. If necessary, they can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day.
You can freeze the raw ravioli and cook them directly from frozen, making sure to place them on a tray to harden first, then transfer them to freezer bags so they won’t stick together. You can then cook them directly from frozen, slightly increasing the cooking time.
The fish ravioli with saffron sauce are made with a dough based solely on egg yolks, ideal for filled fresh pasta. Since it is quite hard to work with, you can help yourself by adding a little water as needed or, if you prefer, you can use a stand mixer.

