name:
Stuffed Round Zucchini
ingredients:
Round zucchini: 4
Mix of grains and quinoa: 1cup(250 g)- (already cooked)
Yellow cherry tomatoes: ¾cup(125 g)
Cherry tomatoes: ¾cup(125 g)
Anchovies in oil: 0.7oz(20 g)
Capers in vinegar: 4tsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Stuffed round zucchini are a one-pot meal that encapsulates a treasure of Mediterranean flavors, perfect for those who desire a light yet tasty meal. The beauty of this dish also lies in its presentation: the round zucchini, with its colorful filling peeking from the top, is a delight for the eyes as well as the palate. They are also a perfect container for the mix of Stuffed Zucchini with Grains and Quinoa which provides a substantial and nutritious base for the stuffing. The anchovies and capers add a burst of flavor, making the filling incredibly tasty. The final result is a harmonious dish, where each ingredient contributes its own unique note, and with each bite, you can taste a variety of flavors and textures that make stuffed round zucchini simply perfect!
If you're looking for more stuffed zucchini recipes , here is a small selection:

To prepare stuffed round zucchini, first cut off the tops with the stem and set them aside, as they will serve as lids. Scoop out the zucchini flesh carefully, ensuring not to break them .
Place the hollowed-out zucchini and the tops on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , season with salt and a drizzle of oil , then bake in a static oven at 392°F for 35 minutes.
In the meantime, finely chop the capers and anchovies . Also, cut the cherry tomatoes into pieces .
In a bowl, add the pre-cooked mix of grains and quinoa and add the capers . Also, add the anchovies and cherry tomatoes .
Add a drizzle of oil and mix . Once the zucchini are cooked, transfer them to a serving plate and fill them .
Place the lid on top and finish with a few basil leaves . Your stuffed round zucchini are ready to be enjoyed !
Stuffed round zucchini can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for up to 3 days.
The zucchini flesh can be finely chopped and used for the filling or as a pasta condiment.
You can customize this recipe according to your taste or the season's availability, for example by adding black olives and replacing the grains with other varieties.

