name:
Pasta with Braised Leek Cream, Hazelnuts, and Fennel
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Hazelnuts: ⅓cup(60 g)
Wild fennel: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Leeks: 10.6oz(300 g)- (to clean)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you like experimenting with unusual combinations, you can't miss the pasta with braised leek cream, hazelnuts, and wild fennel! The absolute stars of this vegetarian first course with a bold character are the grilled leeks, which transform into a velvety and tasty sauce that perfectly coats the spaghetti. The crunchy hazelnuts contrast with the creaminess of the sauce, while the wild fennel adds a fresh and aromatic touch. Few ingredients and few steps for a surprising result... pasta with braised leek cream, hazelnuts, and fennel is a recipe to bring to the table whenever you want to taste something different!
If you are looking for other creamy first courses with leeks, also try:

To prepare the pasta with braised leek cream, hazelnuts, and fennel, first clean the leeks: remove the green part and the base, then cut them in half lengthwise and season with oil .
Salt and spread the seasoning over the entire surface with your hands . Place the leeks on a very hot griddle .
Let the leeks brown well on both sides , it will take about 10 minutes. When they have softened, transfer them to a baking dish , cover with plastic wrap, and let them rest for 10 minutes ; in this way, they will continue to soften thanks to their own steam.
Meanwhile, pour the hazelnuts into a hot pan and toast them for a few minutes, being careful not to burn them . Coarsely chop the hazelnuts with a knife .
Take the braised leeks and put them in a container , then add a little water and blend with an immersion blender until you get a smooth and homogeneous cream . Set aside.
Cook the spaghetti in plenty of salted boiling water . Drain the pasta 2 minutes before the end of cooking and transfer it to a pan , then add a ladle of cooking water .
Add the leek cream and bring to cooking. Turn off the heat, drizzle with a little oil , pepper , and toss.
Plate the spaghetti , then finish with the chopped hazelnuts and the wild fennel. The pasta with braised leek cream, hazelnuts, and fennel is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the pasta with braised leek cream, hazelnuts, and fennel immediately.
The leek cream can be stored in the refrigerator for one day or frozen.
If possible, you can cook the leeks on the grill, wrapped in aluminum foil, for 30 minutes.
You can substitute the hazelnuts with almonds, walnuts, or pistachios.

