name:
Sea bream in the microwave
ingredients:
Sea bream: 1.3lbs(600 g)
New potatoes: 10.5oz(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Lemons: 2slices
Thyme: 3sprigs
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 26 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
The sea bream in the microwave is a healthy and genuine second course. This fish, with its delicate flavor, is perfect for this alternative cooking method. Unlike traditional cooking methods, the microwave envelops the sea bream in even heat, penetrating its flesh in a uniform and rapid manner, ensuring an impeccable result that preserves the nutritional properties and keeps the fish tender and juicy. When you don't have time to prepare baked sea bream or pan-fried sea bream , the microwave is the best choice for quickly achieving a perfect dish for a family dinner.
If you are looking for other recipes with sea bream, also try:
If instead you are looking for other microwave recipes, here is a small selection:

To prepare the sea bream in the microwave, start with the cleaning of the sea bream . Use scissors to cut off the fins, then descale under running water using the back of the knife or a special tool. Make a cut on the belly of the fish up to the head. Remove the innards and rinse well under water to remove all impurities. Fill the cavity with thyme, rosemary , garlic , and lemon .
Season with salt and pepper . Now focus on the new potatoes. Wash them well and, without peeling, cut each into 4 wedges .
Transfer them into a bowl and season with salt , thyme, and rosemary . Add a drizzle of oil .
Mix . Pour a drizzle of oil into a baking dish , place the sea bream on top and add the potatoes .
Season with a drizzle of oil , salt, and pepper and cook in the microwave at 650 W for 20 minutes, then continue cooking in grill mode for another 6 minutes. The sea bream in the microwave is ready to be served .
It is recommended to consume the sea bream immediately after cooking. If there are leftovers, store them with the potatoes in the refrigerator, in a closed container or covered, for up to one day.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer to accompany the sea bream with crispier potatoes, you can cut them into very thin slices instead of wedges.

