name:
Risotto with zucchini cream and raw shrimp
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 0.9cup(180 g)
Zucchini: 1lb(200 g)- with flowers
Shrimps: 5.3oz(150 g)
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
Onions: 1
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: 0.42cup(100 g)
Lemon peel: to taste- (to be grated)
Mint: 4leaves
Marjoram: 1sprig
Dill: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
The risotto with zucchini cream and raw shrimp is a gourmet first course made with simple and genuine ingredients. The classic combination of zucchini and shrimp is expressed in a variety of cooking methods and textures that balance and at the same time enhance the flavors of each individual ingredient. Carnaroli rice is perfect for preparing this type of risotto, as it has a good ability to absorb liquids and release starch, which helps create a creamy and enveloping texture. The risotto with zucchini cream and raw shrimp can be considered a refined dish, high in cuisine, designed to impress and delight, making it perfect for a formal meal or a special occasion.
Don't miss these variants of zucchini risotto :

To prepare the risotto with zucchini cream and raw shrimp, first clean the shrimp. Remove the head and intestines , then remove the shell and set aside. Keep the heads and shells, they will be used to prepare the fish stock.
Cut the shrimp into very small pieces , then transfer them to a bowl and season with a drizzle of oil .
Adjust salt and pepper . Mix and set aside.
Peel and chop the carrots , celery , and onion into small pieces.
Heat the oil in a pot, add the chopped vegetables , the shrimp scraps , and the marjoram .
Add the dill and sauté for a few minutes. Then cover with cold water and cook for 30 minutes .
Meanwhile, separate the zucchini from the flowers and slice them . In a pan, pour the oil, add a clove of garlic, and sauté for a few minutes, then add the zucchini .
Adjust salt and pepper and sauté for a few minutes. After the stock cooking time, strain it .
Add a ladle of stock to the zucchini and cook for a few minutes, just enough time to flavor the zucchini. Remove the garlic and transfer everything to a blender , then blend until smooth and homogeneous . Set aside.
Clean the zucchini flowers , place them in a pan with a drizzle of oil and adjust salt .
Add pepper and sauté for a few minutes, set aside. Now focus on cooking the rice: pour the rice into a pot, add salt and toast dry for a few minutes over low heat. Deglaze with white wine .
Raise the heat and evaporate all the alcoholic part of the wine, then wet with the stock and cook the rice, adding a ladle of stock at a time as soon as the previous one has been absorbed. Meanwhile, cut the mint into thin strips .
When there are 2 minutes left before the rice is done, add the zucchini cream and turn off the heat. Add the mint and zucchini flowers .
Pour a drizzle of oil and stir. Plate and garnish with the shrimp tartare and freshly chopped mint .
Complete with grated lemon zest and a drizzle of raw oil . The risotto with zucchini cream and raw shrimp is ready to be served !
It is preferable to consume the risotto with zucchini cream and raw shrimp immediately.
If you don't like raw shrimp, you can sear them and add them to the risotto.
If you only have zucchini without the flowers, you can still prepare the risotto by skipping the steps of preparing the sautéed flowers.

