name:
Squid Ink Gnocchetti with Cuttlefish Ragù
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Cuttlefish ink: ½tsp(2 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Octopi: 2- medium
Cluster tomatoes: 2
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1bunch
White wine: to taste
Lemon peel: to taste- grated
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
Squid ink gnocchetti with cuttlefish ragù is a special first course, a true delight for the eyes and palate. The squid ink not only gives the gnocchetti a sophisticated appearance, but it enriches the dish with a distinctive sea flavor that perfectly complements the cuttlefish ragù. The tomatoes add a tangy and colorful note, and the basil and lemon are not only aesthetic complements but also bring freshness and aroma. Squid ink gnocchetti with cuttlefish ragù is a recipe suitable for grand occasions or a romantic dinner. The most complicated part of the recipe is definitely the How to clean cuttlefish and the preparation of the Squid Ink Gnocchi , but we will guide you step by step to prepare this dish impeccably.
If you're looking for more recipes with squid ink, don't miss:

To prepare the squid ink gnocchetti with cuttlefish ragù, first cook the potatoes in salted boiling water; it will take about 30-40 minutes . Use a skewer to test when they are done, then drain them and let them cool completely. Meanwhile, clean the cuttlefish. Extract the head and innards and remove the beak located in the center of the tentacles. Separate the body from the tentacles and set the latter aside .
Remove the skin and cut the body and tentacles into small cubes .
In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil and add the crushed garlic , then sauté for a few minutes. Add the cut cuttlefish and cook for 5 minutes over medium heat. Deglaze with white wine and cook for 20 minutes, adding a little water if necessary.
Meanwhile, on a kneading board, mash the potatoes , add the squid ink , an egg yolk, and the flour .
Knead until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough . Form a loaf, flour it, and divide it into small portions by cutting it with a dough scraper .
With each of these portions, form rods about 0.8 inch thick . Flour them well so they don't stick together, then cut them into small pieces with a dough scraper to form the gnocchetti .
After washing the tomatoes, make a cross-cut on the bottom and blanch them for 2 minutes . Then immerse them in ice water for another 2 minutes and remove the skin , which will now come off easily.
Cut the tomatoes in half, remove the seeds, then dice them . Season with oil , salt, pepper, and fresh basil. Mix well .
Drop the gnocchetti in salted boiling water and cook them until they float to the surface. Remove the garlic from the cuttlefish ragù, then drain the gnocchetti and transfer them to the pan , add the chopped fresh parsley and mix, with the heat off, to flavor.
Plate the gnocchetti and top with the diced tomatoes , a spoonful of cuttlefish cooking liquid, basil leaves, and grated lemon zest . The squid ink gnocchetti with cuttlefish ragù are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the squid ink gnocchetti with cuttlefish ragù immediately. If there are leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day.
You can enrich the sauce with seafood or shellfish, such as mussels, clams, or shrimps.
If you like spicy, you can add a chili pepper to the cuttlefish ragù.

