name:
Cherry Tomato and Burrata Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
White onions: 1
Butter: to taste
White wine: 1glass
Salt: to taste
Vegetable broth: to taste
Cherry tomatoes: 2 ½cups(400 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Basil: to taste
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)
Burrata cheese: 1 ½cup(400 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Cherry Tomato and Burrata Risotto is a main course that will captivate your palate with its simplicity and elegance. A true triumph of flavors and colors. The freshness of cherry tomatoes and the creaminess of burrata are the perfect combination, a classic that is creatively and modernly reinterpreted, and will captivate everyone at the first taste. It's a dish suitable for any occasion, from a family lunch to a special dinner. A very simple dish in its preparation, also suitable for those new to cooking.
If you are looking for other risotto recipes, don't miss:
To prepare the cherry tomato and burrata risotto, first cut the cherry tomatoes in half . Then place them in a pan with a drizzle of olive oil and one or two cloves of garlic . Add a few basil leaves and cook for 10 minutes.
Remove the garlic and transfer everything to a mixer. Blend until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream .
In a pot, melt the butter . Meanwhile, chop half an onion , add it along with the butter and let it stew for a few minutes.
Add the rice , add salt, and toast until it feels very hot to the touch and the grains begin to change color. Deglaze with white wine , and once all the alcohol has evaporated, cook the rice with vegetable broth . Add one or two ladles of hot broth to just cover the rice. Stir often and add more broth as needed.
When there are 4 minutes left until the rice is done, add the cherry tomato cream . Once the rice is fully cooked, stir in butter and Parmesan cheese .
Plate the dish by placing dollops of burrata on the rice , complete with basil leaves, a drizzle of olive oil, and pepper . The cherry tomato and burrata risotto is ready to be served .
The cherry tomato and burrata risotto can be stored in the fridge, in a container, for one day.
If you like it spicy, you can add a fresh chili pepper during the cooking of the cherry tomatoes. Leftover risotto can be used to make arancini and croquettes.

