name:
Creamy zucchini and shrimp pasta
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Shrimp paste: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Zucchini: 4cups(500 g)
Lemon juice: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
The creamy zucchini and shrimp pasta is a first course that wins everyone over with its simple goodness; a recipe that combines the taste of zucchini with that of shrimp... a perfect and beloved combination in the kitchen. The linguine perfectly envelop this creamy sauce, making every bite irresistible. A creamy variation of the pasta with shrimp perfect for those who love simple yet refined dishes that enhance the fresh and genuine flavors of seasonal ingredients. Discover how easy it is to prepare creamy zucchini and shrimp pasta and make it at home; it's great for any occasion! Here are other recipes with this combination:

To prepare the creamy zucchini and shrimp pasta, start with cleaning the shrimp: Gently remove the head with your hands , then also remove the shell and use a toothpick to extract the inner vein . Proceed this way for all the others. Heat a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, and add the shrimp . Sauté them briefly over high heat.
Deglaze them with lemon juice and let them brown for about 3 minutes. When they are nicely golden, transfer them to a plate ; do not wash the pan because you will use it shortly to cook the zucchini. Then move on to the zucchini and wash them well. Take one of the 2 zucchinis, trim it, and use a vegetable peeler to remove the skin .
Cut the skin into very thin strips using a knife . Then take the other zucchini, trim it , and cut it in half lengthwise. Slice it to obtain half-moons . Do the same with the other zucchini you previously peeled.
In the same pan where you cooked the shrimp, pour a drizzle of oil and add the zucchini . Season with salt and pepper . Cook over medium-high heat for 6-7 minutes, tossing them occasionally. Meanwhile, put a pot full of water on the stove, salted to taste, which will be used for cooking the pasta. When the zucchini are soft, transfer them to a tall, narrow container .
Blend them with an immersion blender , adding a tablespoon of raw oil and a couple of ladles of pasta water .
Blend again until you obtain a smooth cream and transfer it back to the pan. Meanwhile, cook the linguine and drain them al dente; transferring them directly into the pan.
Add the shrimp and the zucchini skin strips . Scent with lemon zest and thyme leaves . Toss for 2-3 minutes, finish cooking, and plate . Garnish with a little more lemon zest and a few thyme leaves, then serve your creamy zucchini and shrimp pasta immediately!
Creamy zucchini and shrimp pasta can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day, in an airtight container.
Instead of lemon juice, you can also deglaze the shrimp with white wine.
Do not throw away the shrimp scraps, you can use them for a great fish stock!

