name:
Lasagna with Chanterelles and Stelvio
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 9.5oz(270 g)- (15 sheets)
Chanterelle mushrooms (chanterelle): 1.8lbs(800 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Thyme: 5
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)- hay milk
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Stelvio cheese: 12.3oz(350 g)- PDO, hay milk
Type 00 flour: 3.5oz(100 g)
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the lasagna with chanterelles and Stelvio, start with the chanterelle mushrooms: wash them well (this type of mushroom can be washed without being damaged), then dry them well by patting them with a kitchen towel. In a large pan, add two crushed whole garlic cloves , a drizzle of oil, and sprigs of thyme. Toss in the mushrooms , season with salt and pepper, and cook over medium-high heat for about 20 minutes, stirring often. They should become tender. If they dry out too much, you can add about 3.5 oz of water gradually. At the end of cooking, remove the garlic cloves and thyme sprigs, set aside .
Prepare the rich béchamel by grating the Stelvio cheese. Remove the outer rind and grate with a large-hole grater . Heat the milk in a saucepan while melting the butter in a pan over low heat.
Once completely melted, add the flour all at once , remove from the heat and stir vigorously to create the roux. When flour and butter are uniform and slightly golden, pour in the hot milk , stir again with the whisk and return to low heat until boiling.
Once the béchamel is ready, adjust with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Turn off the heat and add the grated Stelvio cheese . Stir to melt it , then the cheese béchamel is ready .
Take a 12x8 inch rectangular baking dish and sprinkle with a drizzle of oil and some béchamel on the bottom . Lay down 3 sheets of egg pasta , then more béchamel .
Continue with the chanterelle mushrooms . Then repeat everything: sheets, béchamel , chanterelles . Continue this way until you use up the ingredients.
Last layer of béchamel , chanterelles, and grated Parmigiano Reggiano PDO . Bake in the oven at 392°F for about 30 minutes, then you can give a last broil under the grill at 464°F for about 3-4 minutes. Once cooked , take out your lasagna and serve it hot!
You can store the cooked lasagna for 1-2 days in the fridge in an airtight container.
You can give it a half-cook and freeze it, then defrost in the fridge and proceed to finish cooking in the oven.
Instead of thyme sprigs, you can use parsley stems to flavor the mushrooms.

