name:
Risotto alla puttanesca
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.8cups(360 g)
Gaeta olives: 3oz(80 g)
Capers: 2tsp(10 g)
Anchovies in oil: 4- fillets
Peeled tomatoes: 1.67cups(400 g)
Vegetable broth: 8 ½cups(2 l)
Peperoncino: 2
Garlic: 1clove
Butter: ½cup(120 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 5oz(140 g)
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Risotto alla puttanesca is a first course dish that combines the creaminess of risotto with the vivacity of the famous "alla puttanesca" sauce, an example of how to enhance simple ingredients and transform them into something extraordinary, showcasing how Italian cuisine can elevate the quality of raw materials. Each component plays a crucial role, contributing to a perfect balance of saltiness, acidity, and creaminess. The black olives, with their robust flavor and meaty texture, enrich the texture of the risotto. The capers add a salty note, while the anchovies enhance the overall flavor of the risotto, adding depth to the dish. Everything is tempered and balanced by the freshness of the tomatoes. It's an ideal recipe for a dinner with friends or a family evening when you want to surprise your guests with something special yet homely.
If you are looking for other "alla puttanesca" recipes, here is a small selection:
To prepare risotto alla puttanesca, first crush the garlic in its skin and slice the chili peppers lengthwise . Pour a drizzle of olive oil into a pan and add the chili peppers and garlic . Also add the anchovies and let them melt over low heat.
Add the tomatoes , adjust with salt and pepper , cover the pan with a lid , and cook for 20 minutes.
Remove the garlic and chili peppers , transfer everything to a blender , and blend until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous sauce .
Toast the rice dry , when it becomes translucent, deglaze with white wine . Once all the alcohol has evaporated, cook by adding a ladle of hot broth as needed .
Meanwhile, chop the capers and olives with a knife and set aside. When the rice is halfway cooked, add the sauce and finish cooking .
Turn off the heat and add the capers , olives , and chopped parsley .
Then, with the heat off, add the butter , Parmesan , and stir until creamy .
Plate and garnish with capers, olives , and parsley . The risotto alla puttanesca is ready to be served .
It is best to consume the risotto alla puttanesca as soon as it is ready, but if you have leftovers, you can store it in a closed container in the refrigerator for 2 days.
You can substitute peeled tomatoes with fresh tomatoes. You can replace parsley with other herbs such as basil or thyme.

