name:
Pasta with octopus and zucchini
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Zucchini: 3
Garlic: 1clove
Lemon peel: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Octopus: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
White wine: ½glass
Parsley: to taste- only the stems

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
If you are looking for a first course that combines the flavors of the sea with the freshness of vegetables, pasta with octopus and zucchini is the right choice. This delicious dish represents the ideal combination of the tenderness of octopus and the delicacy of zucchini. Ideal for a refined dinner or a summer lunch, this recipe enhances Mediterranean flavors with simplicity and sophistication. The spaghetti, strictly al dente, perfectly absorb the juices of the octopus, slowly cooked to preserve its tenderness, and deliciously wrap around the thinly sliced zucchini for a crunchy touch. A dash of extra virgin olive oil, aromatic garlic, and a pinch of chili pepper complete the pasta with octopus and zucchini, making it irresistible for those who love genuine flavors rich in tradition.
Here are other first courses with octopus not to be missed:

To prepare pasta with octopus and zucchini, first take care of the octopus cleaning : remove the beak by pushing it outward , then separate the thoroughly cleaned head from the rest of the body and cut it into pieces. Remove the part with the eyes and divide the tentacles, separating them with a knife .
Then also cut these into pieces about an inch wide . In a saucepan, pour a dash of oil, 3-4 parsley stems, a halved chili pepper, and a clove of garlic in its skin . Let it flavor, then add the octopus pieces .
Raise the heat and cook until the color changes, then deglaze with white wine and let it completely evaporate. Cover with a lid and cook on low heat for 40 minutes. Then remove the garlic and parsley stems .
Meanwhile, also prepare the zucchini: wash them well and trim the ends , then cut them into slices . In a pan, pour a dash of oil and a crushed clove of garlic. Heat and add the zucchini .
Sauté the zucchini for about ten minutes until they are well browned. Then remove the clove of garlic . Transfer the octopus to the pan and finish cooking until you get a thick sauce .
Meanwhile, cook the spaghetti in boiling salted water . Drain them al dente and transfer them directly to the pan with the sauce, along with a ladle of pasta cooking water . Add the lemon zest .
Also add the chopped parsley , a dash of oil, and toss everything well. Plate, garnish with grated lemon zest , and serve your pasta with octopus and zucchini !
It is recommended to consume the pasta with octopus and zucchini immediately; alternatively, you can store it in the refrigerator for up to one day. The sauce can also be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
If you prefer, you can omit the lemon zest. For a creamier result, you can drain the spaghetti very al dente and finish cooking them in the pan with the sauce, adding the cooking water a little at a time.

