name:
Tagliatelle with Courtyard Ragù
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Eggs: 4
Fine salt: to taste
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste- (for dusting)
Turkey breast: 0.55lb(250 g)
Duck breast: 8.8oz(250 g)
Spring onions: 4
White wine: 1.1cups(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Chives: 10tbsp(60 g)
Wild fennel: 12tsp(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)- cold
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to be grated)
Marjoram: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the dough in the fridge (at least 20 min.)

instructions:
Bring the taste of homemade cooking to the table with the tagliatelle with courtyard ragù recipe! A rich and hearty first course, perfect for a Sunday family lunch or festive days, such as the Easter menu. The homemade egg pasta has a rough and porous texture that allows it to best absorb the seasoning, a white meat ragù prepared with duck and turkey breast. The aromatic sauce based on fennel and chives will not only provide an extra taste boost but also a creative touch that renews tradition thanks to its fresh spring fragrance. Easy and appetizing, the tagliatelle with courtyard ragù will win over both gourmet and more conservative diners!
If you enjoyed these tagliatelle with white ragù , don't miss out on:

To prepare the tagliatelle with courtyard ragù, first focus on the dough: arrange the flour in a mound and pour the slightly beaten eggs in the center . Add a pinch of salt and start incorporating the flour with a fork .
Knead first with a dough scraper and then with your hands until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough. Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 20 minutes.
Take the dough again and cut it in half , then roll it out with a pasta machine starting from the widest thickness , folding it for reinforcement in the first passes, until you obtain sheets about 1/16 inch thick. Dust the work surface with semolina flour and cut the sheets into rectangles 12 inches long .
Dust the rectangles with more semolina , then roll them up and cut them into strips about 1/4 inch thick . Unroll the tagliatelle and dust with more semolina .
Wrap the tagliatelle around your hand to create nests and let them rest on the work surface until ready to use .
Now focus on preparing the ragù: finely chop the scallions, including the green part . In a pot, heat a splash of oil, add the scallions , and stew for 8 minutes over medium heat. When they are cooked , remove them from the pot and set aside.
Cut the turkey and duck breast into strips with a knife and then into small cubes . In the same pot where you cooked the scallions, heat another splash of oil and add the meat . Brown for about 10 minutes over high heat, stirring often.
Deglaze with white wine and scrape the bottom with a wooden spoon, then season with salt and pepper . Once all the alcohol has evaporated, add the scallions .
Add the water and cook over medium heat for 20 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the herb sauce: blanch the chives and fennel for one minute , then drain and cool in ice water .
Drain the herbs and squeeze them well, then place in a jug along with the water and oil .
Blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous sauce . Cook the tagliatelle in abundant salted boiling water for 2-3 minutes .
Drain directly into the ragù . Add a little pasta cooking water, a drizzle of oil, the grated Parmesan , and toss off the heat. Plate and finish with a few drops of herb sauce and marjoram leaves. Your tagliatelle with courtyard ragù are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the tagliatelle with courtyard ragù immediately.
You can prepare the tagliatelle in advance and let them dry. The ragù can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in an airtight container; alternatively, you can freeze it.
You can customize the courtyard white ragù by replacing the turkey and duck meat with chicken, guinea fowl, or rabbit, in the proportion you prefer.
For an even more aromatic version, you can add spices such as juniper or bay leaf during the ragù cooking.

