name:
Linguine with Marinated Anchovies and Pecorino
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 0.7lb(320 g)
Anchovies: 1.8lbs(800 g)- to be cleaned and frozen
Pecorino cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Colatura di alici (fishsauce): to taste
Lemon peel: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Water: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves
Lemon juice: 1
Lemon peel: 1
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + marinating time for the anchovies (10 minutes)

instructions:
Linguine with marinated anchovies and Pecorino is a first course dish made from common ingredients, yet they manage to amaze with their bold combination. Anchovies are often used for tasty appetizers, like breaded anchovies or Anchovies in scapece , but they are also perfect for first courses like this one we are presenting, where the flavor of the anchovies is enhanced by a light marinade: the Citronette adds freshness and aroma to the dish, complemented by Pecorino which, with its unmistakable taste, gives character and depth. Every forkful will be an explosion of flavors. With this recipe, you will be able to satisfy even the most demanding palates; it is perfect for family lunches as well as special occasions.
If you are looking for other first courses with anchovies, also try:

To prepare the linguine with marinated anchovies and Pecorino, first grate the zest of a lemon and set it aside. Prepare the citronette by pouring the oil, lemon juice , and finely chopped parsley into a bowl.
Add some grated lemon zest , season with salt and pepper , and emulsify .
Now focus on cleaning the anchovies. Take the head between your fingertips, at the level of the gills , applying slight pressure to remove it, during this operation you will eliminate the head, spine, and entrails . Open the anchovies like a book and rinse to remove all impurities .
Place the anchovies in a baking dish, season with salt , drizzle with lemon juice , add water until they are completely covered . Let marinate for 10 minutes.
Remove the anchovies from the first marinade and dip them in the citronette . Meanwhile, cook the linguine in salted boiling water . In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil and add the garlic , and let it fry for a few minutes.
Remove the garlic and pour a ladle of pasta cooking water , add some grated lemon zest , and a drizzle of anchovy juice .
Drain the linguine and put them in the pan, pour a ladle of pasta cooking water . Add the remaining grated lemon zest , the Pecorino , and stir until you get a creamy sauce.
Plate by placing 5 marinated anchovies on the plate , a nest of spread linguine, the creamy sauce, and finish by placing two more marinated anchovies on the surface of the pasta and a drizzle of citronette . The linguine with marinated anchovies and Pecorino are ready to be enjoyed .
It is advisable to consume the linguine with marinated anchovies and Pecorino immediately.
If you are a fan of spicy flavors, you can fry fresh chili along with the garlic. You can serve with a few slices of lemon. Do not marinate the anchovies too long as they may fall apart during cooking.
If you are not familiar with cleaning fish, you can buy 14 oz (400 g) of cleaned anchovies from the fishmonger.
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze for at least 96 hours at -0.4°F (-18°C) in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, as per guidelines from the Ministry of Health .

