name:
Creamy ham and pea pasta
ingredients:
Ditaloni rigati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 0.6lb(250 g)
Peas: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Fresh scallion: 4.5oz(130 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to grate)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Creamy ham and pea pasta is an easy first course, perfect for those with little time to spend in the kitchen. Discover how to achieve a deliciously creamy sauce without using cream, with just a simple trick... cooking the pasta like a risotto, resulting in a dense and well-blended dish, completed with a generous sprinkle of pecorino for creaminess. This way, you will only dirty one pan, saving time and resources. The Fusilli with cream, ham, and peas is a classic favorite, but this light, practical, and wholesome version will be even more appreciated by both adults and children!
Try our creamy ham and pea pasta and don't miss out on other tasty variations:

To prepare the creamy ham and pea pasta, first prepare the vegetable broth following our recipe. Cut the cooked ham into 1/2 to 3/4 inch cubes . Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a pan, then add the ham cubes and sauté for 5 minutes over medium-high heat .
When they are crispy and golden, transfer them to a tray and set aside. Now cut the fresh spring onion into thin slices and add it to the same pan with the other 2 tablespoons of oil .
Sauté the spring onion for 7 minutes, occasionally adding vegetable broth . After this time, add the peas and salt .
Season with a grind of black pepper and add the raw pasta to the pan . Cook the pasta by adding one ladle of hot broth at a time, as if it were a risotto .
Continue stirring to prevent the pasta from sticking to the bottom of the pan . When the pasta is al dente, it will take about 15 minutes, add the cooked ham and stir .
Turn off the heat and mix in the grated pecorino and a final ladle of broth , then mix well . Your creamy ham and pea pasta is ready to be served hot!
The creamy ham and pea pasta can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
If you prefer, you can use water instead of broth.
If there is leftover pasta, bake it in a ventilated oven for a few minutes, and a delicious crust will form on the surface.

