name:
Chicken Thighs in Air Fryer
ingredients:
Chicken Thighs: 4- (skinless)
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Paprika: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Chicken thighs in an air fryer are a practical and tasty main course. Cooking with an air fryer ensures that the chicken reaches perfect doneness and remains golden brown on the outside. The potatoes also achieve the right internal texture and a crispy crust, all without the need for large quantities of oil. The secret of this recipe lies in the seasoning, which perfectly envelops the meat, making it rich in flavor. The spices and herbs penetrate the chicken's flesh, enhancing the taste with a balanced mix of smoky and aromatic notes. The result is a dish that is both delicious and light, ideal for those looking for a healthier alternative to classic frying or a quicker method than Baked Chicken Thighs . If you love tasty main courses without too much effort, air fryer chicken thighs will soon become one of your favorite recipes.
If you're looking for other chicken thigh recipes, also try:
If you are looking for other air fryer main courses, don't miss these recipes:
To prepare chicken thighs in an air fryer, first place the meat in a bowl , season with oil and paprika . We used skinless thighs, but if you prefer, you can use those with skin.
Add rosemary , salt , and pepper. Massage the meat to ensure it is well-flavored.
After thoroughly washing, cut the potatoes into wedges ; place them in a bowl and season with oil , salt, and pepper .
Add paprika , rosemary , and mix well .
Place the chicken thighs in a 6-liter air fryer basket and add the potatoes . Cook at 356°F for 30 minutes, turning the meat halfway through cooking . The air fryer chicken thighs are ready to be enjoyed .
Air fryer chicken thighs should be consumed immediately, but if there are any leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for 1-2 days.
You can add other spices like curry, turmeric, or cumin. You can use other herbs like thyme, sage, or marjoram. If you have more time, you can marinate the meat for a few hours in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, with oil, lemon, spices, and herbs.

