name:
Sea Bass en Papillote
ingredients:
Sea bass (sea bass): 2.2lbs(1.2 kg)- to be cleaned and portioned, or 4 fillets of 200 g each
Artichokes: 2
Lemons: 1
Lemon thyme: 8sprigs
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Sea bass en papillote is a light and aromatic main course. Cooking en papillote helps preserve the natural flavors of the ingredients, keeping the sea bass tender and juicy; this contrasts with the slight crunchiness of the artichokes. The heat gently envelops the fish, creating a moist cooking environment, allowing the fish to absorb all the flavors and aromas of the other ingredients. Serving it directly in the packet allows all the aroma and steam to be released at the moment of opening. Ideal for those who love to bring authentic, light, and flavorful dishes to the table.
If you are looking for more sea bass recipes, don't miss out:
To prepare the sea bass en papillote, first focus on How to clean the seabass . Remove the fins then scale under running water using a scaler or the back of a knife. Cut along the belly, remove the innards, and rinse again. Make a diagonal cut, shortly after the gills, starting from the back and connecting with the previous cut on the belly . Cut the tail and dorsal area following the spine , once the first fillet is obtained, proceed the same way for the second.
Remove any bones and impurities . Cut the fillets into lozenges then score the skin . Set aside.
Now focus on cleaning the artichokes . Remove the outer and harder leaves . Peel the stem then cut off the tips with a sharp cut .
Cut them in half and remove the internal choke , then cut them into quarters . As you clean them, immerse them in acidulated water .
Slice the garlic . Cut 4 sheets of parchment paper and overlap them with 4 sheets of aluminum foil. Place the artichokes in the center, the garlic , and some lemon slices .
Add a piece of sea bass and season with oil , salt, and pepper .
Finish with a few sprigs of lemon thyme . Seal the parchment paper into a packet .
Wrap the foil into a candy shape . Place the packets on a baking tray and bake in a static oven, preheated, at 392°F for 20-25 minutes. The sea bass en papillote is ready to be served directly in the packet .
Sea bass en papillote should be consumed as soon as it's ready, but if there are leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator in a closed container for up to 1 day.
For a more Mediterranean version, add halved cherry tomatoes, Taggiasca olives, and capers. For an even fresher aroma, replace the lemon with orange and lime slices and add a pinch of grated ginger.

