name:
Neapolitan Spaghetti Omelette
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Whole milk: 0.4cup(100 g)
Eggs: 8
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Tomato purée: 3cups(700 g)
White onions: 1
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The famous law of conservation of mass states that nothing is created nor destroyed, everything is transformed! From North to South, farmers knew this well as they were skillful masters in turning leftovers into a new dish. This tradition, fortunately, has reached us with meatballs , originally made with the meat from broth or with Sicilian arancini , which can be made with leftover rice. In this line of dishes, today we present the Neapolitan Spaghetti Omelette, an institution of authentic Neapolitan street food like the parigina or the folded pizza. The spaghetti omelette (or pasta omelette) is a rather well-known and widespread dish throughout Italy, precisely to give a second life to leftover pasta, enriched with what's available in the fridge or pantry. Contrary to this, however, the Neapolitan Spaghetti Omelette has a strongly territorial soul: the leftover pasta is mixed with a bit of sauce (even better if it's ragù), all enriched only with eggs and grated cheese! Perfect to share at the beach or for a picnic with friends and family, the Neapolitan Spaghetti Omelette is a comfort food that renews the spirit and makes you feel at home anywhere. And if you love Neapolitan recipes, try our rustic stuffed pizza and the Tagliolini Pie !
To prepare the Neapolitan Spaghetti Omelette, bring a pot of water to boil, salt it once it boils. Then clean and chop the onion . Pour it into a saucepan where you have heated the oil . Let it wilt for a few minutes on low heat, stirring often, then add the tomato purée .
Season with salt, cover with the lid, and let it cook gently for half an hour . At the end of cooking, flavor the sauce with some basil . Meanwhile, cook the spaghetti al dente .
Once cooked, drain them and place them in a bowl, cover with the sauce , and mix thoroughly .
Let them cool slightly and in the meantime, prepare the egg mixture: break the eggs into a bowl and add the grated cheese , milk , salt, and pepper. Beat with a whisk to mix everything .
Pour the mixture over the pasta and mix well to combine . Pour a bit of oil in a 12-inch (30 cm) diameter pan (measured at the surface) with rather high sides, heat slightly and pour everything in .
Distribute the pasta evenly with the help of a spatula , then cover with the lid and cook on medium heat for 10 minutes . After the time has elapsed, use a pizza plate (or a smooth lid) to flip the omelette .
Slide it back into the pan and continue cooking on the other side for another 10 minutes without the lid . Your Neapolitan Spaghetti Omelette is ready, enjoy !
The Neapolitan Spaghetti Omelette can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
Freezing is not recommended.
The Neapolitan Spaghetti Omelette is a leftover dish, so you can enrich the mixture with leftover pieces of ham, salami, cheeses, and mozzarella. Additionally, you don't have to prepare the tomato sauce specifically, if you have some leftover - even better if it’s Neapolitan ragù - you can reuse it, as tradition dictates!

