name:
Spaghetti with Anchovies
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 14.1oz(400 g)
Anchovies in oil: 1.1oz(30 g)- (drained weight)
Tomato paste: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Parsley: 1tuft
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Spaghetti with anchovies are one of the simplest and most versatile first courses that exist! Excellent with breadcrumbs or Pasta and Breadcrumbs for a tasty quick dinner, or with fresh cherry tomatoes for a summer lunch, they can also turn into a refined dish like the version of orange spaghetti with anchovies . In this recipe, we have used an aromatic mixture based on pine nuts, garlic, parsley, and chili pepper which, along with tomato paste, will give an extra boost of flavor and color! Easy and quick to prepare, even in this case spaghetti with anchovies prove themselves suitable for all occasions, try them also in the creamy version with the recipe of pasta with anchovy cream !

To prepare spaghetti with anchovies, first, put a pot of abundant water on the stove and bring it to a boil. Then, on a cutting board, place the parsley, chili pepper, garlic clove, 0.7 oz of pine nuts, and 0.7 oz of anchovies . Chop them finely to obtain a homogeneous mixture .
Heat the oil in a large pan , add the remaining anchovies , and let them melt over moderate heat .
When the anchovies have melted, pour in the tomato paste along with a little hot water . Shortly after, add the aromatic mixture and cook for 5 minutes so the flavors can blend together. Meanwhile, the water will have come to a boil, so cook the spaghetti until al dente .
Drain the spaghetti and transfer them to the pan with the sauce . Toss everything together for a minute, adding a bit of the pasta cooking water if necessary. Garnish the plate with the remaining pine nuts and serve your spaghetti with anchovies immediately !
It is recommended to consume the spaghetti with anchovies immediately.
If you prefer, you can omit the tomato paste.

