name:
Pizzaiola Zucchini
ingredients:
Zucchini: 21.2oz(600 g)- clear
Tomato purée: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 10.5oz(300 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ¼cup(50 g)- grated
Basil: 4leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pizzaiola zucchini is a truly delightful dinner-saving recipe! Making it is really simple and with just a few steps, you'll bring a kind of zucchini parmigiana to the table, but cooked in a pan! There's no need to fry or grill the vegetables... with our recipe, you can use them raw, just like we did for the One-pot parmigiana . Also in this case, you'll use only one pan, and with this really original cooking method, it will be a pleasure to cook! Layers of zucchini, tomato sauce, mozzarella, and Parmesan will combine for an amazing single dish, to be served with lots of crusty bread! So what are you waiting for? Let's start cooking together.
And if you're a zucchini lover, here are other recipes not to be missed:
To prepare pizzaiola zucchini, first cut the mozzarella into small cubes and let it drain. Wash the zucchinis, trim the ends, and cut them into rounds, about 1/4 inch thick . Pour the tomato sauce into a bowl, season it with salt , olive oil, and chopped basil leaves.
Mix well . Take a 9.5-inch non-stick pan and place a few tablespoons of tomato sauce on the bottom. Arrange the zucchini inside , covering the entire surface .
Add a little more tomato sauce on top , a tablespoon of grated Parmesan , and some mozzarella cubes .
Continue in this manner, alternating ingredients until you finish the zucchini . Add more tomato sauce on top , a bit more Parmesan, and the remaining mozzarella . Cook for 40 minutes, then serve.
Pizzaiola zucchini can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
You can prepare pizzaiola zucchini in advance and reheat them as needed.
For an even richer dish, add slices of cooked ham between the layers.

