name:
Savory Chicken Scallops
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 4slices
Datterino tomatoes: 9oz(250 g)
Taggiasca olives: 2.8oz(80 g)- pitted
Capers: 2tbsp(30 g)- desalted
Tomato paste: 1.7tbsp(25 g)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Oregano: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
How do you prepare scallops? Usually with veal and in their most classic version: lemon scallops ! They are among the most popular and easiest second courses, and this time we tempt you with a really delicious variant: savory chicken scallops! Unlike white wine scallops , strictly in white, the variant we propose today is rich in cherry tomatoes and characterized by a super tasty sauce. Capers, olives, garlic, and oregano are the ingredients that will make it so special... we can guarantee that this is a dish that, with its simplicity, everyone always loves! An alternative way to cook chicken breast, in an easy and quick manner, suitable for all occasions. Let's find out together how to prepare it, the sauce is guaranteed! Here are other recipes you shouldn't miss:

To prepare savory chicken scallops, first wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half . In a large pan, pour a drizzle of oil, 2 cloves of garlic, capers, and olives . Turn on the heat and place the cherry tomatoes one by one with the cut side in contact with the pan .
Cook over medium-high heat for about 5 minutes . In the meantime, check that the chicken slices are thin; if not, pound them with a meat tenderizer. Flour the chicken breast slices on all sides , shake off the excess, and place them on a plate .
When the cherry tomatoes are well browned , place the chicken breast slices in the pan . Brown for a couple of minutes, then turn the slices using tongs and brown them on the other side as well .
In the meantime, dissolve the tomato paste in a little water . Add it to the pan and add the remaining water to clean the bowl well .
Mix well and cook for another couple of minutes. At this point, add the fresh oregano leaves , just a pinch of salt, pepper, and serve your scallops hot .
We recommend consuming the scallops immediately; alternatively, you can store them in the fridge covered for 1 day.
Instead of fresh tomatoes, when they are out of season, you can use peeled cherry tomatoes. A piece of chili pepper can be very pleasant in the seasoning. The tomato paste serves to bind and make the sauce creamier; instead, use tomato puree, preferably reduced a bit on the heat to avoid water release.
If you find very thin slices, there is no need to pound them, but if you can't make them thinner, extend the cooking time a bit, perhaps covering with a lid to help cook the chicken.

