name:
Ziti with Neapolitan Ragù
ingredients:
Ziti pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Beef steak: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Pork ribs: 0.7lb(320 g)
Sausage: 0.75lb(340 g)- pork
Tomato purée: 3.1lbs(1400 g)
Yellow onions: 10.6oz(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Red wine: 2.5oz(70 g)
Water: 1.3cups(300 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 4 h 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Ziti with Neapolitan ragù is a rich and flavorful first course from the Neapolitan tradition, perfect for Sunday lunch and capable of bringing the whole family together! Ziti, also known as Zite, are a typical pasta shape; they are usually served with the sauce from the genovese or with this delicious ragù that we are presenting today. Unlike the classic Bolognese ragù , where the meat is ground, here the pieces remain whole, and you can find sausage, ribs, and brisket in the sauce. Every family has its own version and chooses how to enrich this sauce; we present ours, hoping you like it as much as we do!
Here are some other ideas to dress ziti:

To prepare the Neapolitan ragù, start by peeling and chopping the onion . Then trim the beef brisket by removing the fatty part with a sharp blade and cut into pieces .
In a very large saucepan, sauté the onion over low heat with the extra virgin olive oil for a few minutes . Then add the brisket pieces, the ribs , and the sausages .
Brown all sides for 6-7 minutes . Deglaze with the red wine and, as soon as the alcohol has completely evaporated, pour in the tomato puree .
Add the water and a pinch of salt. Cook over low heat, almost simmering, for at least 4 hours , then if you prefer, you can shred the brisket and mix it with the sauce. If the water evaporates too much, you can add more as needed. At this point, put a pot of salted water on the stove for the pasta and meanwhile break the ziti .
As soon as the water reaches a boil, drop the ziti in and cook them for the time indicated on the package. Drain and dress them with the ragù sauce ; if you prefer, you can also add some pieces of meat or serve them separately. The ziti with Neapolitan ragù are ready to serve .
Neapolitan ragù can be frozen, keeping it in a glass container and covered. You can also store the ragù in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 3 days. The dressed ziti, however, should be kept in the refrigerator for no more than one day.
The meat in the ragù is plentiful; consider that some of the brisket will dissolve into the sauce, but you can serve the rest as a second course. If you have leftover pasta, you can reheat it the next day by baking it with some provolone cheese. You can also add previously fried meatballs or braciole to the sauce!

