name:
Pancake with Greek Yogurt
ingredients:
Eggs: 1- medium
Greek yogurt: (150 g)
Sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)
Type 00 flour: 3.35oz(95 g)
Whole milk: 0.3cup(75 g)- (at room temperature)
Baking powder: 0.25oz(8 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 2.8oz(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pancakes with Greek yogurt are a variation of the classic pancakes , enriched with this type of very thick and nutritious yogurt. We wanted to make the most loved and known pancakes even more delicious with chocolate chips: you'll love the flavor and the energy boost in the morning! They are ready in half an hour, just enough time to make coffee and set the table for the family's sweet breakfast, and they'll be ready in no time! But if you're lazy or slow in the morning, you can also prepare the batter the night before and keep it in the fridge, so it's ready to go the next morning!
Discover other equally delicious versions:

To prepare the pancakes with Greek yogurt, first put the yogurt, egg , and sugar in a bowl. Then mix with a hand whisk until everything is well combined .
Also add the flour , sifted baking powder , and milk .
Mix again until you get a smooth, lump-free batter . Finally, add the chocolate chips and mix them into the batter .
Heat a non-stick pan with a diameter of 8 inches, and when it is very hot, pour 1 or 2 tablespoons of batter to form a pancake about 3 inches in diameter . Once bubbles form, flip the pancake with a spatula .
Continue cooking on the other side as well . Continue this way until all the batter is used up; this recipe makes 10 pancakes. Serve the yogurt pancakes hot, garnished with maple syrup or honey .
The prepared pancakes with Greek yogurt can be stored in the refrigerator for one day, covered with plastic wrap.
You can prepare the batter the night before and keep it in the fridge.
Instead of chocolate chips, you can enrich the pancake batter with blueberries, halved raspberries, white or dark chocolate flakes, or leave them plain!

