name:
Salted Caramel
ingredients:
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(270 g)
Butter: 9 ¼tbsp(130 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Caramel is a sauce widely used in pastry making, and you can also make it at home to enrich and decorate many desserts. Today we show you a variation: salted caramel. If you are a lover of the irresistible combination of sweet and savory, you are in the right place! Unlike classic caramel that quickly solidifies like when you prepare crème caramel , our salted caramel always remains creamy, thanks to the addition of butter and cream, just like in Toffee sauce . The uses for salted caramel are really many: you can prepare it to decorate the delicious salted caramel cheesecake , or a simple panna cotta , but also as a topping for your ice creams. Salted caramel is also delicious just added to coffee or hot chocolate for an irresistible touch! This preparation has had great success all over the world, and salted caramel lovers are increasingly growing, thanks to its texture and its inimitable taste. Here are some recipes we recommend you try with salted caramel:
To prepare the salted caramel, first pour the sugar into a thick-bottomed saucepan, with a diameter of 8 inches . It is important to use a saucepan that is not too large, otherwise the caramel could burn on the edges. Cook over medium-low heat until the sugar starts to melt . Help by rotating the saucepan to even it out and prevent the sugar from burning on the edges. Meanwhile, heat the cream .
As soon as the sugar is completely melted and your caramel has reached an amber color , lower the heat. Immediately add the butter and the salt .
Quickly mix with a whisk until the butter is completely melted . Now carefully pour in the hot cream .
Continue to mix with a whisk while being careful . Stir until you get a smooth sauce , then transfer it into a sterilized jar. Let it cool first at room temperature and then in the refrigerator. Now the salted caramel is ready to use .
You can store the salted caramel in the refrigerator for 6 days.
Choose the saucepan to use for the caramel carefully; do not use a wooden spoon to stir it as it could crystallize. Also, it is important to pour the hot cream to avoid thermal shock and be very careful when pouring it into the caramel.

