name:
Spaghetti with salmon and stracciatella with basil
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Salmon: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Stracciatella cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)- from burrata
Basil: 0.7oz(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Garlic: 1clove
Black pepper: to taste
Lemon peel: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
If you are looking for a quick and delicious first course, we recommend trying this recipe. Spaghetti with salmon and basil stracciatella are really easy to make... in just a few minutes you will have a creamy and fragrant pasta, perfect for any occasion! Thanks to quick pan cooking, the salmon cubes will remain very tender, while our stracciatella cream will perfectly envelop the spaghetti. And to achieve a unique creaminess, we have a trick: just finish cooking the pasta in the pan! The scent of basil will fill your kitchen and tickle your taste buds! Prepare these spaghetti for a last-minute dinner! Here are more recipes with salmon:
To prepare spaghetti with salmon and basil stracciatella, start with the salmon. Remove the skin and cut it into 3/4 inch cubes . Now take the basil leaves and separate them from the stems . Put a pot of water on the stove for cooking the pasta.
In a large pan, heat a drizzle of oil along with a clove of garlic and the basil stems . Let it infuse and add the salmon cubes . Add salt and pepper and cook over high heat for 4 minutes. Meanwhile, grate the lemon zest and squeeze its juice.
When the salmon is well browned, deglaze with the lemon juice and cook for another 1-2 minutes. Transfer the salmon cubes to a plate, draining them from the cooking fat and keeping the pan aside, as it will be used later for the pasta. Cover the salmon with a plate to prevent it from drying out. Toss the spaghetti into the boiling water and cook it for half the time indicated on the package.
Meanwhile, in a tall container, pour the stracciatella, basil, and a tablespoon of oil . Blend everything until you get a smooth cream . After 5 minutes, drain the pasta (without discarding the cooking water) and transfer it to the pan where you cooked the salmon. Continue cooking the pasta, adding a ladle of cooking water as needed . This will form a delicious cream.
Add the stracciatella and basil cream and toss everything together. Add the salmon cubes and the lemon zest .
Also add a grind of black pepper and toss the pasta well before serving it .
We recommend serving the pasta immediately. If there are leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator for one day.
Instead of stracciatella, you can also use burrata. If the cream is too thick, add a splash of water.

