name:
Light Banana Bread
ingredients:
Bananas: 1 ½cup(300 g)- (ripe pulp)
Type 0 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Maple syrup: (85 g)
Coconut oil: 6tbsp(85 g)- at room temperature
Rice milk: (80 g)
Egg yolks: 2tbsp(30 g)- (approximately 2)
Baking powder: 2tsp(9 g)
Coconut oil: to taste
Type 0 flour: to taste
Pecans: 1oz(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
The banana bread is perfect to start the day with a burst of energy, but thanks to the light banana bread recipe, breakfast will be even more enjoyable! A sugar-free and lactose-free variation of the famous banana loaf cake, lighter but just as soft and delicious. To sweeten the batter, we used maple syrup, while rice milk and coconut oil replace the fats present in more traditional desserts. The presence of fruit also makes it particularly nutritious, as well as a great way to use up overripe bananas!
Also try the Coconut Banana Bread variant and other delicious banana desserts:
To prepare the light banana bread, mash the pulp of the ripe bananas with a fork . Once you have obtained a homogeneous mixture, add the maple syrup and the yolks , and mix well with a hand whisk.
Pour in the coconut oil and mix again, then add the flour and the baking powder .
Incorporate the dry ingredients with the whisk, and finally add the rice milk . Mix again until completely absorbed and you have obtained a smooth and homogeneous batter . Coarsely chop the pecans .
Pour the batter into a fluted loaf pan that measures 6.7x3.15 inches at the base and 7.87x4.33 inches on the surface, with a height of 2.75 inches . Make a cut on the surface lengthwise with an oiled knife and garnish with the chopped pecans .
Bake in a static oven at 350°F for 50-55 minutes . Check the doneness with a toothpick, then remove from the oven and let it cool in the pan before removing . Your light banana bread is ready to be enjoyed !
The light banana bread can be stored at room temperature for 2 days, covered with a dome.
You can freeze it after baking.
You can replace the coconut oil with the same amount of hazelnut oil for a more intense flavor! Alternatively, you can use a vegetable oil.
The maple syrup can be replaced with agave syrup, but the result will be slightly different in terms of sweetness and taste.
If you prefer, you can use cow's milk or another plant-based milk instead of rice milk.

