name:
Butter-free Pancakes
ingredients:
Low-fat Yogurt: ½cup(125 g)- plain
Type 00 flour: 1cup(150 g)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Eggs: 2oz(58 g)- (1 medium)
Baking powder: 1.9tsp(8 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste- for greasing the pan, optional

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 4 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + 30 min. of resting for the batter

instructions:
Butter-free pancakes were born from the desire to meet everyone's needs... to not give up on the pleasure of a sweet awakening, here's how to make pancakes in a light version. These yogurt pancakes are fluffy and spongy like the original ones and are perfect to accompany with fresh fruit, honey, and jams to start the day with lots of energy but without guilt. If you are wondering how to prepare butter-free pancakes, follow our step-by-step recipe: we will explain what you need to make pancakes and all the tricks to achieve a perfect result. Cooking pancakes without butter has never been so easy! Serve them on Sunday for an unforgettable family brunch, or prepare the batter the night before and set them on the table in the morning... you'll see that no one will want to leave the house without having breakfast!
Check out these pancake recipes:
To prepare butter-free pancakes, start by placing the egg in a bowl and whisking it with a hand whisk . When it becomes light and frothy, add the milk slowly and, continuing to whisk, also add the yogurt .
Then add, sifting it, the flour and the baking powder gradually . Proceed by carefully mixing, with gentle movements from bottom to top to not deflate the mixture, until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous batter . Cover with plastic wrap, and place it in the fridge to rest for about 30 minutes. After this time, retrieve the batter and heat over medium heat a non-stick pan or a specific crepe pan, greasing it if necessary with a paper towel soaked in oil. Pour a spoonful of batter into the center of the pan , letting it spread by itself.
After a few minutes, when small bubbles start to form on the surface, it's time to flip the pancake, with the help of a spatula . Let it cook for another minute and when it's ready, place it on a plate. Continue until you run out of batter. Serve your butter-free pancakes with fresh fruit, honey, or jams !
It is best to consume butter-free pancakes as soon as they are cooked, but you can store them in the fridge covered for 1 day. The batter keeps in the fridge, covered, for up to 12 hours. Freezing is not recommended.
Butter-free pancakes, but certainly not without flavor: if you wish, you can flavor the batter with the seeds of a vanilla pod, the grated zest of a lemon, or a pinch of cinnamon!
Are you looking for other "free" desserts? Let yourself be tempted by our butter-free muffins and the Sugar-free mini plumcakes !

