name:
Eggless Plumcake
ingredients:
Bananas: 1 ½cup(300 g)- ripe pulp
Type 2 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Brown sugar: ½cup(90 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 5tbsp(70 g)
Almond milk: ½cup(125 g)- at room temperature
Baking powder: 3tsp(9 g)
Dark chocolate chips: ¼cup(40 g)
Peeled almonds: 1.1oz(30 g)- sliced
Bananas: 1
Brown sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Eggless desserts, like some savory preparations such as Eggless savory muffins , have become one of our specialties. We started with a simple Cake without eggs for a snack, then moved on to tiramisu for a truly indulgent dessert, and continued with pancakes for breakfast. Now, we present a soft eggless plumcake, perfect for breakfast. Rich and filling, each slice will energize and delight your taste buds! This delightful and simple recipe is designed for those who need to follow a diet without eggs, but it will be a pleasant surprise for those who have simply run out of them. No compromises in terms of texture and flavors, but a delicious vegan variant with Almond milk , offering a rustic taste thanks to the use of type 2 flour, which stands up to traditional plumcakes!
To make the eggless plumcake, first peel the bananas and gather 10.5 oz of pulp in a bowl, then mash them with a fork to obtain a puree . Add the brown sugar .
Mix the mixture with electric beaters to blend it . Then pour in the oil , the almond milk , and beat the mixture again with the beaters for a couple of minutes.
At this point, sift the type 2 flour and baking powder directly into the bowl; mix with the beaters until you obtain a homogeneous batter.
Finally, incorporate the dark chocolate chips and slivered almonds . Stir with a spatula to distribute them evenly within the batter .
Grease with butter and flour a loaf pan measuring 6.5x3.14 inches at the bottom and 4.33x8 inches at the top, with a height of 2.75 inches, and pour in the cake batter . Peel another banana and cut it in half lengthwise,
to obtain two equal pieces ; place the banana slices on top of the batter and sprinkle the surface of the banana with brown sugar so that it caramelizes in the oven.
The cake is now ready for baking ; bake in a static oven preheated to 356°F for 45 minutes on the middle rack. Once baked, remove the eggless plumcake , let it cool slightly, then remove it from the mold and transfer it to a serving plate .
The eggless plumcake keeps for 3 days under a glass dome or well covered with plastic wrap. It can be frozen after baking.
Alternatively, you can use cow's milk, rice milk, or soy milk instead of almond milk.

