name:
Mushroom Burger
ingredients:
Champignon mushrooms: 14oz(400 g)- (to clean)
Breadcrumbs: 0.6cup(70 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Powdered cumin: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Red onions: 0.55lb(250 g)
Brown sugar: 1spoonful
Hamburger muffins: 4
Fontina cheese: 6.5oz(180 g)
Beefsteak tomatoes: 4slices
Chickory: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the mushroom burger, first remove the earthy base from the champignons, then chop them roughly . In a pan, sauté with oil and sliced garlic clove, then add the mushrooms and salt immediately .
Sauté the mushrooms over medium heat for about 10 minutes, stirring often, then turn off the heat and let them cool slightly . Meanwhile, peel the onions and slice them thinly . Place the onions in a pan with hot oil .
Add the brown sugar and cook over medium heat for about 5 minutes . Set aside the caramelized onions and transfer the cooled mushrooms to a mixer .
Operate the mixer to finely chop the mushrooms . Pour the purée into a bowl, then add the cumin and breadcrumbs .
Season with a pinch of salt, pepper, and chopped parsley . Knead with your hands until you get a soft and homogeneous mixture .
Use a pastry ring of the same diameter as the burger buns to form 4 patties, making sure to press the mixture well . In the same pan used for the mushrooms, heat another drizzle of oil and place the first patty .
Cook for 3-4 minutes over medium heat, then flip it gently and add the slices of fontina cheese . Cover with a lid and let it cook for another couple of minutes . When the cheese has melted, remove the burger from the pan and proceed in this way to cook the others.
Before assembling your sandwiches, you can toast the bread by placing the cut side in the same pan where you cooked the patties, so that it absorbs the cooking juices . At this point, you can place the cheese-topped mushroom burger on the bottom bun , then add a slice of tomato .
Finish with caramelized onions and julienned chicory . Cover with the other half of the bun and proceed in the same way to assemble the others. Your mushroom burger is ready to be bitten into!
The mushroom burger can be stored for one day in the refrigerator.
Alternatively, you can freeze it.
If the mixture seems too soft, resist the temptation to add more breadcrumbs and use the pastry ring to compact the patties well.
If you don't like the taste of cumin, you can flavor the mushroom burgers with garlic and freshly grated ginger!

