name:
Banana and Yogurt Cake
ingredients:
Bananas: 6oz(170 g)- (peeled)
Type 00 flour: 1.4cups(170 g)
Rice flour: 0.3cup(45 g)- null
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (approximately 2 medium)
Natural plain yogurt: ½cup(125 g)
Sunflower seed oil: (80 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
The yogurt cake is one of the favorite desserts of moms and kids: soft and easy to prepare. The banana cake , as well as the banana bread , drive lovers of this fruit crazy. Today we offer you the union of these two breakfast cakes by preparing a delicious banana and yogurt cake. A soft and fragrant dessert, made Yogurt cake without butter , but with the addition of rice flour: light and fragrant, it will conquer you at the first bite. Also perfect for a genuine snack or breakfast, the banana and yogurt cake will be highly requested by both adults and children... even in single-portion version Yogurt and banana muffins without eggs !
To prepare the banana and yogurt cake, first peel the bananas and slice them , mash them with a fork : you should get about 3.5 oz of pulp. Add the grated lemon zest , mix and set aside.
Put the eggs and sugar in a bowl and beat with electric whisks . When the mixture becomes light and frothy, pour in the oil in a thin stream .
Add the yogurt and continue to beat to combine everything. In a separate bowl, sift the flour with the baking powder and salt , add the rice flour and mix.
Gradually add the dry ingredients into the mixture while continuing to beat . When the dry ingredients are well incorporated, add the mashed bananas and mix to obtain a homogeneous batter .
Pour the batter into a 9-inch diameter cake pan that you previously buttered . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 40 minutes. After checking the doneness with a toothpick, remove the cake from the oven and let it cool completely on a rack , then sprinkle with powdered sugar as desired. Your banana and yogurt cake is ready to be enjoyed !
The banana and yogurt cake can be stored at room temperature, under a glass dome or with aluminum foil (or plastic wrap) for 4-5 days.
You can freeze it after baking, perhaps already sliced.
You can enrich the banana and yogurt cake batter with chocolate chips or a pinch of cinnamon!
If you are looking for a lactose-free version, try our light banana bread recipe!

