name:
Milk-Free Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Sugar: 1cup(180 g)
Sunflower seed oil: ½cup(120 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Lemon peel: ½
Vanilla bean: 1
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Cakes: eggs, butter, and sugar, and the magic is already there. But sometimes we have made them without eggs or with chocolate and carrots without milk... a milk-free cake, in fact, is equally soft and delicious! We challenge you to try our version, a real treat for the whole family. Aromatic and soft, but above all easy to make, this milk-free cake is perfect for a breakfast full of goodness and authenticity! Are you ready to accompany a delicious slice of milk-free cake with a good coffee or dip it in tea?
Also, check out the Butterless Margherita Cake made with plant-based milk and without eggs!
To make the milk-free cake, pour the eggs and sugar into a bowl , add the zest of half a lemon and the seeds from the vanilla pod .
Using electric beaters, mix everything at medium speed until you get a frothy mixture . Then add the flour all at once and continue to work it in to absorb.
Add the baking powder . Then pour in the oil and room temperature water .
Beat again until you get a smooth and homogeneous batter . Grease with vegetable oil and flour a 9-inch diameter cake pan . Pour the batter into the pan and bake in a preheated oven at 350°F for about 40 minutes.
Check with a toothpick before removing from the oven , then let it cool and unmold the milk-free cake . Dust with powdered sugar and serve .
You can store the milk-free cake for up to 4 days outside the refrigerator, covered with a glass dome.
If you like, you can also freeze it after baking, perhaps already portioned.
Do you want to enrich your milk-free cake? In addition to giving it a different taste by adding plant-based beverages such as coconut or rice milk, you could use dried fruits like raisins or finely chopped almonds.

