name:
Ricotta Cheesecake
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 10.6oz(300 g)
Butter: 7.1oz(100 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(230 g)
Powdered sugar: 1.6cups(200 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Strawberries: to taste- dried
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 3 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
When it comes to cheesecake, you've often asked us how to replace mascarpone ? So, we finally set to work to present you our ricotta cheesecake! Yes, we at Giallozafferano care about your opinions and requests, so we experimented with this delicious cold cheesecake that has nothing to do with the NY Cheesecake , which is baked in the oven. In this raw variant, similar to what we did for the lemon cheesecake , the cake will be delicate in flavor and creamy in texture: it will literally melt in your mouth! A dessert your guests surely won't be able to resist... they might even dare to ask for seconds, you know? Try it as an alternative to the other two cheesecakes you love, the elegant mini cheesecakes in a single-serving version and the delicious Nutella cheesecake ... all that's left is to set up the podium and let us know which one is the winner for you!
To prepare the ricotta cheesecake, let's start with the base. Pour the cookies into the mixer and blend them until you get very fine crumbs. Transfer them to a bowl and add the melted butter (microwave or gently on the stove in a saucepan) , mix with a spoon .
Pour into a 9-inch (22 cm) greased and parchment-lined pan . Distribute the mixture inside using the back of a spoon to form a smooth base and a layer that covers part of the edge . Place the pan in the freezer for about 30 minutes and in the meantime soak the gelatin in fresh water .
Now let's move on to the cream. In a bowl, pour 3/4 cup (200 g) of heavy cream and whip it until it is soft and frothy . Spoon it into a bowl with the ricotta and fold gently .
Then heat the remaining 2 tbsps (30 g) of heavy cream in a saucepan , when it is about to boil, drain the gelatin and pour it into the cream . Stir off the heat until the gelatin is completely dissolved, then add to the cream .
Sweeten the preparation by adding the powdered sugar and continue to mix gently until it is completely absorbed . Retrieve the pan and pour the cream into it ,
level with the back of a spoon and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 12 hours . Your ricotta cheesecake is ready, decorate as desired with strawberry slices and some mint leaves .
The ricotta cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
It can be frozen.
To enhance the flavor of the ricotta cheesecake, add a tablespoon of wildflower honey to the cream.
But we know you're indulgent, so a cascade of dark chocolate chips or pieces will be perfect for enriching this delicious dessert!

