name:
Gluten-free Bechamel
ingredients:
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Gluten free cornstarch: 0.8cup(100 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Homemade béchamel sauce is one of the most beloved and versatile condiments in cooking, not only for enriching baked pasta but for many other dishes! And because we love taking care of you, dear readers, today we've perfected the recipe for gluten-free béchamel. A gluten-free version suitable especially for those who are allergic or intolerant to gluten, the protein found in wheat. Do you remember the butter-free or vegan versions we had experimented with? To meet everyone's culinary needs, we certainly couldn't miss our gluten-free béchamel! An inviting condiment because it is a creamy sauce, capable of thickening or making surfaces crispy: truly an ace in the kitchen. Discover all the tricks for a perfect homemade béchamel!
To prepare the gluten-free béchamel, start by heating the milk in a saucepan . Meanwhile, in another pot, melt the butter over low heat . Once it's melted, turn off the heat and add the cornstarch all at once .
Quickly whisk with a hand whisk . Turn the heat back on low and pour in a little hot milk to temper the mixture , then pour it all in and stir quickly to avoid lumps .
Let the béchamel cook for 4-5 minutes; the sauce should thicken and come to a boil. When done, season with salt, black pepper, and nutmeg . Give it one last stir , and your gluten-free béchamel is ready to be used .
If you don't use the gluten-free béchamel right away, put it in a bowl and cover it with plastic wrap in contact. Once cooled, you can store it in the fridge for a couple of days or freeze it for a month.
If you prefer a more fluid sauce, use less butter and cornstarch. Conversely, if you want it thicker, slightly increase the amounts of these two ingredients. Instead of cornstarch, you can use rice flour. What to prepare with vegan béchamel? Try dressing our gluten-free crepes and bake them with a seasoning of your choice and, of course, a rich layer of béchamel!

