name:
Cheese Puff Pastry Sticks
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1- rectangular
Poppy seeds: 0.8tsp(3 g)- white
Poppy seeds: 1tsp(3 g)- black
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)- (to grate)
Eggs: 1
Paprika: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Whole milk: 0.7tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Cheese puff pastry sticks are delicate and tasty savory snacks made of puff pastry seasoned with Parmigiano Reggiano and spices, perfect for serving at an appetizer or as an starter in a rich buffet. These snacks are also perfect to enrich your breadbasket and delight your guests on special occasions. Cheese puff pastry sticks are prepared in just a few minutes and have a truly enticing flavor: they are seasoned with paprika, white and black poppy seeds to give a unique taste to the pastry, which once again proves to be one of the most versatile ingredients in the kitchen! Try using it to make other starters with puff pastry:

To prepare the cheese puff pastry sticks, crack the egg into a small bowl, add the milk , and whisk with salt and pepper . Unroll the puff pastry on a work surface and brush it with the egg and milk mixture .
Then sprinkle with grated Grana Padano PDO . At this point, divide the pastry square into three equal rectangles: on the first, evenly distribute the black poppy seeds ; then sprinkle the second rectangle with white poppy seeds .
Sprinkle paprika on the third . Use a straight-edged wheel to cut strips about 3/4 inch wide vertically. Then cut the pastry horizontally into strips about 3-4 inches wide: this will create about 24 rectangles, each 3-4 x 3/4 inches . Twist the sticks so that the filling remains on the outside .
Place all the strips on baking trays lined with parchment paper , well spaced , and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 10 minutes.
When they are nicely golden, remove the trays and let the cheese puff pastry sticks cool before serving them !
Store the cheese puff pastry sticks in a paper bag for 1-2 days at room temperature. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of paprika and poppy seeds, you can sprinkle your cheese sticks with rosemary, cumin, cinnamon, anise, flavored salt, or pepper.


