name:
Monachina Eggs
ingredients:
Eggs: 6
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)- at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Butter: 3tbsp(45 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp
Black pepper: 1tsp
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(100 g)
Eggs: 2
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Stuffed eggs are a classic among Easter appetizers, but the ones we propose today have an extra kick: the hard-boiled eggs are first filled with a mixture of bechamel and yolks, then breaded and fried! This enticing preparation is called uova alla monachina and belongs to the Neapolitan tradition. The presence of bechamel suggests a more aristocratic than popular origin, but no other details are known about this historic recipe, which is still prepared today during Easter and throughout the year as a substantial finger food or second course. Try the uova alla monachina yourself and let us know if you liked them!
Discover more delicious egg recipes:
To make monachina eggs, first prepare the hard-boiled eggs: place the whole eggs in a saucepan, cover them with cold water, turn on the heat, and cook for 9 minutes from when the water begins to boil . After this time, run the saucepan under cold water to cool the eggs and stop the cooking process. While the eggs are cooking, you can prepare the bechamel: melt the butter over low heat in a saucepan , then add the flour all at once and stir well with a whisk to avoid lumps.
When the flour turns golden, pour in the milk in several batches and continue to stir until you get a fairly thick mixture. Once ready, turn off the heat and season the bechamel with salt , pepper, and Parmesan , stirring again to combine everything.
Gently peel the hard-boiled eggs , cut them in half , and remove the yolks .
Sieve the yolks by pressing them through a mesh strainer placed over a bowl using a spatula , then add the bechamel and mix vigorously to obtain a homogeneous mixture .
At this point, fill the emptied eggs with the mixture obtained and close them by matching the halves to form 6 whole eggs again .
Coat the filled eggs first in flour , then in beaten egg , and finally in breadcrumbs .
Heat the vegetable oil to 320°F and fry one egg at a time for about a minute until it is beautifully golden, then transfer it to paper towels to remove excess oil . Your monachina eggs are ready to be served hot !
It is recommended to consume the monachina eggs as soon as they are ready. They cannot be frozen.
If you like, you can flavor the filling with chives, or you can replace the breadcrumbs with corn flakes for an even crunchier result! It's important that the bechamel is thicker than usual because it will act as a binder when you reassemble the eggs.
Looking for other traditional Neapolitan recipes to enrich your Easter menu? Try the Neapolitan rustic pizza!

