name:
Cod with Chickpeas
ingredients:
Desalted cod: 1.2lbs(540 g)
Precooked chickpeas: 1.67cups(400 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 1.67cups(400 g)
Water: 0.8cup(180 g)
Red onions: 2.5oz(70 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1- small
Rosemary: to taste
Sage: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 3
Cost: Low

instructions:
Since it began to be imported to Italy in the mid-15th century, cod has enjoyed great success in our traditional and regional cuisine: firstly, because of the versatility of its meat, which lends itself well to stewed , fried , and with summer Cod with Peppers or Cod with Asparagus vegetables but especially because it is economical and preserves well over time. It is precisely with these qualities in mind that we wanted to create a simple and hearty recipe, aimed at enhancing the genuine taste of this particular food: cod with chickpeas! A rustic-flavored seafood dish, cooked immersed in an abundant tomato and legume-based sauce that tempers the saltiness of the fish without overpowering it. Cod with chickpeas, enjoyed as it is or accompanied with fragrant bread croutons, shows that with humble ingredients, you can create an incredibly rich and appetizing dish!
Come and discover other delicious cod-based recipes:

To make cod with chickpeas, start by preparing all the ingredients you will need for the recipe: divide the cod (we used cod that was already desalted) into 6 pieces of equal thickness , clean and thinly slice the onion , then chop the fresh chili pepper ,
the rosemary needles and sage leaves . Heat a drizzle of oil in a large saucepan, add the onion, chili pepper, rosemary, and sage and sauté for a couple of minutes.
Now add the peeled tomatoes and the pre-cooked chickpeas drained from their preserving liquid , extend the sauce with water
and season with salt and pepper. Cover with a lid and cook for about 10 minutes over high heat. After this time, place the cod pieces inside the saucepan ,
close the lid again and cook for another 10 minutes over medium heat. At this point, take about 6.3 oz of the sauce and transfer it to a tall, narrow container , then blend with an immersion blender
and pour the cream obtained back into the saucepan . Continue cooking for another 10 minutes over high heat, this time without a lid, shaking the saucepan occasionally . Serve your cod with chickpeas hot and garnished with fresh thyme leaves !
Cod with chickpeas can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you wish, you can deglaze the sauté with 0.7 oz of red wine. Cod with chickpeas will be even better if you accompany it with crispy garlic-scented bread slices!

