name:
Lamb Hunter Style
ingredients:
Lamb: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
White onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 1sprig
Sage: to taste
Red wine: 0.4cup(100 ml)
Red wine vinegar: 2spoonfuls
Tomato paste: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
L'abbacchio alla cacciatora is a main course dedicated to those who love homey dishes with rustic flavors. The "cacciatora" seasoning is perfect for meats; surely you have already tried the more well-known version with Chicken Hunter Style ! Unlike the classic Abbacchio a scottadito , a typical recipe of Lazio cuisine, this way of cooking lamb involves a longer pan-cooking process, enriched with herbs and aromas that soften the strong and intense flavor of the lamb, yet make the dish tasty and succulent. Just a few ingredients will suffice to bring to the table a dish with a retro flavor that is always well-received!
Check out more dishes with lamb:

Start the preparation by peeling the carrot, trimming it, and cutting it first into slices and then into approximately 1/2-inch cubes . Wash the celery stalk and cut it into cubes the same size as the carrots . Peel the onion, then slice and coarsely chop it .
Finely chop the garlic with a knife or use a garlic press . Pour the oil into a saucepan, let it heat up , then add the chopped ingredients for the soffritto . Let it brown for a couple of minutes over medium heat, stirring often.
Lightly flour the lamb pieces , shake them to remove excess flour, and when the vegetables are well stewed , add the lamb to the saucepan .
Let it brown, and when the lamb pieces are golden, turn them over . Salt and pepper, then add rosemary and sage . Deglaze with wine .
Add the vinegar and the tomato paste thinned with a ladle of hot water, and pour it over the lamb . Cover with a lid and let it cook for about 30 minutes.
Add a little hot water if needed . Finally, remove the aromatic herbs , check the doneness, and remove from heat. Let the abbacchio alla cacciatora rest for a few minutes before serving it .
You can prepare the abbacchio alla cacciatora up to a day in advance, store it in the fridge in an airtight container, and reheat it in the pot right before serving.
This recipe can also be made with an entire leg of lamb, naturally adjusting the cooking times which should be extended.
This type of seasoning can also be used to make other dishes: try the Rabbit Hunter Style or Meatballs Hunter Style !

