name:
Super Soft Ricotta Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The super soft ricotta cake is a genuine recipe, a very easy-to-make dessert that will win the hearts of both young and old with its simple goodness. Preparing it is a real pleasure, and the result is a very soft cake, perfect to enjoy for breakfast or as a snack. Its delicate aroma, with citrus notes and its fluffy texture make it an ideal choice to treat yourself at any time of the day. This special Homemade Ricotta cake is the typical pantry cake to prepare at home and serve with a cup of coffee, hot tea, or an aromatic herbal tea, to enjoy a moment of relaxation!
Here are some other ricotta desserts to prepare at home:

To prepare the super soft ricotta cake, first drain the ricotta in a sieve for at least 30 minutes . In a bowl, pour the eggs and sugar , whisk until the mixture doubles in volume, then add the oil .
Flavor with the grated zest of an untreated lemon . Take the drained ricotta and stir it to soften , then incorporate it into the batter .
Also add sifted flour and baking powder . Mix until you get a smooth batter without lumps . Butter and flour an 8.66-inch (22 cm) mold, pour the batter into it, and level the surface with a spatula .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F (180°C) for 45 minutes (adjust temperature and time based on your oven). Perform the toothpick test before removing from the oven to check if it is cooked inside . Let it cool in the mold, then unmold the super soft ricotta cake and garnish as desired with powdered sugar .
The super soft ricotta cake can be stored under a glass dome or in an airtight container for 3-4 days. It can be frozen after baking.
For an even more delicious cake, add chocolate chips to the batter!

