name:
Green Roman-Style Gnocchi
ingredients:
Semolina: 0.8cup(125 g)
Spinach: 3 ½cups(100 g)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)
Butter: to taste
Sage: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time (at least 15-20 min.)

instructions:
Potato gnocchi or Roman-style gnocchi ? If your choice falls on the latter, or if you simply like to vary your menu by experimenting with new recipes, we recommend preparing these delicious green Roman-style gnocchi! A spring variation of the original version where the basic semolina gnocchi dough is enriched with fresh spinach. The classic butter and grated cheese seasoning remains the same, but with the addition of some aromatic herbs for an even more inviting aroma! An original vegetarian baked first course, perfect to share with whoever you prefer... try the green Roman-style gnocchi and don't miss these tasty variations:
If you want to discover other traditional recipes, don't miss the timeless Roman carbonara !

To prepare green Roman-style gnocchi, first melt the butter in a large pan , then add the spinach, cleaned and washed , and the salt .
Season with pepper and nutmeg and let them wilt for a minute over medium heat. When the spinach has wilted, pour in the milk .
Turn off the heat and blend with an immersion blender , then bring the mixture just to a boil. At this point, pour in the semolina gently while stirring with a whisk and let it thicken on the stove for 1-2 minutes, stirring constantly .
With the heat off, add the grated cheese and the egg yolk , then mix everything well with a spatula .
Pour half of the mixture in the center of a sheet of parchment paper , then shape it into a cylinder about 1.25 inches in diameter . Wrap the cylinder in the parchment paper, twist the ends to seal it , and let it cool completely; it will take about 15-20 minutes, or you can keep them in the refrigerator overnight. Proceed in the same way with the remaining half of the mixture.
After the cooling time, grease a smooth-edged knife and cut the roll into disks about 0.5-0.6 inches thick . Place the disks in a buttered baking dish measuring 7x10 inches, forming several rows and slightly overlapping them . Sprinkle the surface with small knobs of butter .
Finally, sprinkle with grated cheese , add a few leaves of thyme and sage for aroma , and pepper. Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 20 minutes, then switch to grill mode for 2-3 minutes. When they form a nice crust, remove the green Roman-style gnocchi from the oven and serve immediately !
Green Roman-style gnocchi can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
The uncooked rolls can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day, wrapped in parchment paper.
You can freeze the gnocchi either raw or cooked.
If you wish, you can replace the spinach with Swiss chard and proceed as per the recipe!

