name:
Oriental Soy Spaghetti
ingredients:
Soy spaghetti pasta: 5.3oz(150 g)
Soybean sprouts: 0.7cup(50 g)
Red peppers: 1 ½cup(230 g)
Carrots: 1cup(130 g)
Fresh scallion: 2oz(60 g)
Fresh ginger: 1.8oz(50 g)
Soy sauce: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Green spicy Peperoncino: 1.5oz(40 g)
Vegetable oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Water: 1spoonful- (warm)
Garlic: 2cloves
Lime juice: 1small glass
Chicken breast: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Lime: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
It is one of the most beloved dishes of Asian cuisine, now spread all over the world, available in many tasty variants, it is Oriental soy spaghetti. Soy is an essential versatile ingredient: the sauce adds a touch of savoriness, the sprouts add a crunchy note, and the soy spaghetti , with their neutral taste, represent a perfect base to be enhanced with delicious ingredients. The chicken marinated in a mixture of soy sauce and lime provides a perfect balance between savoriness and freshness. The dish is completed by stir-fried vegetables in a wok, adding a crunchy and lively touch, with colors and flavors that enrich every bite. The wok, a symbol of Asian cuisine, gives the vegetables an intense and smoky flavor. Scents of the East are all enclosed in a unique dish that the boldest can enjoy with typical chopsticks!
Discover other tasty dishes with Fried noodles with vegetables :
Clean the chicken breast of fats and small bones , cut it into chunks , and season it in a bowl with half the serving of vegetable oil ,
soy sauce , lime zest , and lime juice .
Mix and set aside. Proceed with the vegetables by cutting the bell peppers into sticks , the carrots into rounds first
and then into matchsticks , finely chop the green chili after removing the seeds . Peel and slice the fresh ginger ,
then cut it into strips . Slice the spring onion into rounds . Heat a wok, or a non-stick pan, and toss in the seasoned chicken .
Maintain a medium-high temperature , and after about 8 minutes, frequently tossing the chicken in the wok, you will have beautifully golden meat . Transfer the chicken to a tray. To remove food residues from the wok, just add a little hot water and boil for a few moments .
Pour the vegetable oil into the wok , keep the temperature medium-high, and toss in the bell peppers , the green chili ,
the garlic cloves , the ginger , the carrots ,
the spring onion , and cook, frequently stirring the vegetables for 7 minutes. Season with soy sauce and continue stirring. Add the chicken to the vegetables ,
mix to thoroughly combine the ingredients. Add the soy sprouts and set aside. Now bring plenty of water to a boil in a pot, then turn off the heat and add the soy spaghetti to it . Let them rehydrate for 3 minutes, then drain the spaghetti directly into the wok .
Adjust the soy sauce to your liking and cook for one more minute on high heat . Your Oriental soy spaghetti are ready ; enjoy them hot!
Oriental soy spaghetti should be consumed immediately.
For a crunchy touch, you can add toasted cashews. Remember to follow the instructions on the soy spaghetti package; some need to be boiled while others also need to be cooled under cold running water to prevent them from becoming sticky.

