name:
Boiled Artichokes
ingredients:
Artichokes: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Lemons: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Mint: to taste
Dried chili pepper: 1
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Boiled artichokes are a simple, light, and flavorful side dish, perfect for accompanying meat or fish main courses, or to enjoy on their own for a healthy and tasty meal. Artichokes are the undisputed stars of Mediterranean cuisine. After showing you how to cook them in a pan , today we want to demonstrate how delicious they are even when simply boiled! Cleaning and cooking are essential to obtain tender yet firm artichokes. How long should you cook the artichokes to make them tender yet still crunchy? It always depends on the type and size of the artichokes, but in 8 minutes they should be perfectly cooked! The dressing is the final touch that transforms boiled artichokes into an irresistible dish! In this recipe, they are dressed with a fresh and fragrant emulsion made with extra virgin olive oil, lemon juice, and mint, which enhances their flavor without overshadowing their delicacy. If you're looking for a light, tasty, and quick idea, these boiled artichokes are perfect for you! Let's discover all the secrets to preparing them at their best. Besides being delicious on their own, boiled artichokes can be used in many other recipes: add them to rice salads, gourmet sandwiches, mix them with cold pasta and creamy cheeses, or use them to enrich omelets and savory pies for a touch of taste and lightness! And if you love artichokes, here are other recipes not to miss:

To prepare boiled artichokes, first cut a lemon in half. Squeeze the juice of one half into a container and set it aside, while squeezing the other half into a large bowl filled with cold water. Place a pot full of salted water on the stove, which will be used for cooking. Clean the artichokes: remove all the outer and tough leaves , cut off the tips of the artichokes with a knife , and remove the base parts of the artichoke, using a smaller knife .
Peel the stem and cut the artichoke in half . Now remove the inner choke with a melon baller or a small knife .
Cut it again in half to create two wedges . From each artichoke, you will get 4 wedges; as you go, place them in the bowl with cold lemon water to prevent them from browning .
As soon as the water reaches a boil, immerse the artichokes and cook them for about 8 minutes, or until they are tender. These artichokes will be eaten warm, so once drained, you can cool them in cold water (possibly with ice) to stop the cooking and maintain a firmer texture .
Then, dry them well by patting them with a paper towel . Prepare the dressing: pour the oil and a crushed garlic clove into a glass container, cover with plastic wrap , and heat in the microwave for about 1 minute, stopping the microwave every 20 seconds. Let it cool.
In a bowl, combine lemon juice, the torn mint leaves , salt , and dried chili pepper .
Mix and slowly add the oil , continuing to stir until you get an emulsion .
Dress the boiled artichokes with the flavored oil , mix well , and serve .
Store the boiled artichokes in the refrigerator and consume them within a couple of days. Alternatively, they can be frozen.
You can enrich the boiled artichokes' sauce with anchovies and add chopped black olives for an even richer taste. Instead of mint, you can use thyme or parsley.

