name:
Beef fillet with red wine sauce
ingredients:
Beef filet: 1.75lbs(800 g)- (4 pieces of approximately 200 g each)
Garlic: 2cloves
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Red wine: 2 ½cups(600 g)- Chianti, Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon
Onions: 1
Brown sugar: 2spoonfuls
Balsamic vinegar: 2spoonfuls
Cornstarch: 1spoonful
Water: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The fillet is a lean, tender, and exquisite cut of meat, often reserved for special occasions... here we offer you a recipe that will meet the expectations of even the most demanding guests: beef fillet with red wine sauce! A tasty and refined main course, an alternative to the classic fillet with green pepper : in this case, the meat is accompanied by a creamy and aromatic sauce based on red wine, which enhances its rich and succulent flavor. We've chosen to cook the fillet rare, but if you prefer a different level of doneness, you can adjust according to the instructions provided in the preparation. Serve the beef fillet with red wine sauce with some mashed potatoes or a side of seasonal vegetables, uncork a quality bottle, and bring to the table a classy dish with a gourmet touch!
Also try the Pork tenderloin with wine sauce and discover other delicious variations of this dish:

To prepare the beef fillet with red wine sauce, start with the sauce: peel and finely chop the onion . In a small saucepan, heat a drizzle of oil, add the chopped onion , and sauté over medium heat for a couple of minutes, then add the brown sugar .
Pour in the balsamic vinegar and let it caramelize for another minute, then add the red wine and bring to a boil. Let the sauce reduce for about 10-15 minutes .
When the sauce has reduced by about half, strain it through a sieve , pressing the onion with the back of a spoon to extract all the juice . In a separate small bowl, dissolve the corn starch in a little water .
Pour the mixture into the sauce off the heat , mix well , and finally adjust with salt. Ensure that the red wine sauce coats the back of a spoon; that's the correct consistency. Keep warm .
Proceed to cook the beef fillets: in a large pan, flavor the oil with the garlic cloves and rosemary sprigs . Meanwhile, salt the meat on the surface . When the oil is hot, place the fillets in the pan .
Sear over medium-high heat for 3 minutes per side for rare doneness . For medium, cook for 8 minutes per side, and for well-done, about 10 minutes per side. When the fillets are ready , transfer them to a rack, being careful not to pierce the meat , and let them rest for a couple of minutes so the juices can redistribute.
Serve the fillets with a side of mashed potatoes, for example , and drizzle the dish with the red wine sauce . Your beef fillet with red wine sauce is ready to be enjoyed !
It's recommended to consume the beef fillet with red wine sauce immediately.
The red wine sauce can be stored for 2 days in the refrigerator or frozen.
It's important to use a good quality wine because the flavor will affect the final result!
To ensure even cooking of the meat, we recommend tying the beef fillets with kitchen twine.

