name:
Pan-fried Lamb Chops
ingredients:
Lamb loin: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (12 ribs)
Garlic: 2cloves
Rosemary: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Maldon salt: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the time for marinating the meat in the fridge (at least 10 min.)

instructions:
Easy and quick to prepare, pan-fried lamb chops are a classic second course of home cooking! The pan-searing creates an irresistible golden crust, keeping the meat tender and juicy inside. Thanks to a brief marination, the lamb will be flavorful and aromatic, and with a few simple steps, you'll serve a dish that will win everyone over at the first taste. Serve the pan-fried lamb chops with a side of roasted potatoes or seasonal vegetables, such as simple sautéed artichokes... they will be perfect as a second course for the Easter menu or for everyday dinners!
If you're looking for more recipes with lamb chops, try also:
Looking for a first course to pair for a Roman-flavored menu? Try making the timeless original carbonara at home!

To prepare the pan-fried lamb chops, first cut the chops from the lamb rack by slicing the meat between each bone . Transfer the chops to a baking sheet .
Season with salt, pepper , oil , and rosemary .
Add the unpeeled garlic cloves and mix with your hands to evenly season all the chops . Let marinate in the refrigerator for at least 10 minutes. Heat a non-stick pan, then place the chops in it .
Sear on medium-high heat for 4 minutes on one side and 6 minutes on the other . If necessary, turn the chops on the bone side to remove the reddish color . When nicely golden, transfer the chops to a rack and let them rest for a few minutes.
Plate and finish with Maldon salt , a few marjoram leaves, and a drizzle of raw oil . The pan-fried lamb chops are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the pan-fried lamb chops immediately. If there are leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days. Before serving again, heat them in a pan over low heat with a drizzle of oil or a bit of butter to keep them tender.
You can add smoked paprika, cumin, or a fresh chili pepper to the marinade for a spicy note.
If you wish, you can accompany the pan-fried lamb chops with a fresh yogurt and herb sauce, a balsamic vinegar reduction, or a mustard sauce!

