name:
Paradise Brownies
ingredients:
Dark chocolate 55%: 8.1oz(230 g)
Butter: 7.8oz(220 g)
Sugar: 1.1cups(220 g)
Eggs: 4
Type 00 flour: 1.1cups(140 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(20 g)
Baking powder: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 0.67cup(150 g)
Condensed milk: 0.34cup(80 g)
Wildflower honey: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 9 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time in the fridge (at least 2 h)

instructions:
Paradise brownies are every chocolate lover's dream: soft, intense, and irresistibly delicious. Inspired by traditional American brownies , but without hazelnuts, these treats combine the richness of cocoa with a soft and velvety milk cream that makes them even more irresistible. Perfect for a delicious snack or as a dessert to share, every bite of paradise brownies is an explosion of sweetness that captivates at first taste!
Discover other delicious brownie variations:

To prepare the paradise brownies, start by placing the chopped chocolate in a bowl for a double boiler . Add the butter in pieces and a pinch of salt . Stir occasionally until fully melted , then let it cool slightly.
Pour the eggs into a bowl with the sugar , then beat with an electric mixer until you obtain a light and frothy mixture. At this point, incorporate the slightly cooled dark chocolate .
Beat again with the electric mixer to get a smooth batter . Sift the flour inside .
Continue with the cocoa and the baking powder and blend again with the electric mixer .
When the powders are well incorporated , grease and line a 10x10 inch pan with parchment paper, pour the batter inside , and spread it evenly with a spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 30-35 minutes, on the central rack.
Remove the brownie from the oven and let it cool slightly . Meanwhile, prepare the cream: in a bowl, pour the mascarpone, honey , and cream .
Start whipping with the electric mixer , then add the condensed milk . Gently mix with a spatula to incorporate it and set aside .
Once cooled, unmold the cake onto a cutting board , then cover the surface with the cream, creating a spatula effect with the back of a spoon . Place in the refrigerator to chill for at least 2 hours , then you can cut the cake into squares; you can divide the paradise brownies into 9 generous squares or into 16 smaller portions, the choice is yours!
Paradise brownies can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in an airtight container.
If the cream turns out too thick, you can soften it by adding 2-3 tablespoons of milk.

