name:
Arlecchino Savory Truffles
ingredients:
Cream cheese: 1.1cups(250 g)
Robiola cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 3.5oz(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)- to be grated
Powdered turmeric: to taste
Poppy seeds: to taste
Ground pistachio: to taste
Chopped hazelnuts: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Arlecchino savory truffles are a delicious and colorful appetizer, perfect for adding a touch of creativity to your table! They are bite-sized and melt in your mouth, thanks to the creamy mixture made with mascarpone, robiola, and cooked ham. These soft bites are then coated with different spice or crumb-based coatings, adding a crunchy and varied touch! Easy and quick to prepare, Arlecchino savory truffles are ideal for buffets, aperitifs, and casual dinners where you want to impress with a cheerful and original idea. Perfect for Carnival, they are extremely versatile and can be customized as you prefer to create always new combinations of colors and flavors!
If you are looking for other colorful and delicious appetizers, don't miss out on:

To prepare the Arlecchino savory truffles, first place the cooked ham in a mixer, add the Parmesan cheese and blend. Add the robiola cheese and the cream cheese , then blend until you obtain a homogeneous mixture. Transfer everything into a bowl.
Scoop a tablespoon of mixture and form a ball . Continue until all the mixture is used up; with these quantities, you will get about 16 truffles. Arrange them on a tray as you go.
Pour turmeric, poppy seeds, pistachio crumbs, and hazelnut crumbs into separate small bowls, then coat the truffles with the different coatings . Your Arlecchino savory truffles are ready to be served !
Arlecchino savory truffles can be stored in the refrigerator for one day, in an airtight container. It is advisable to take them out of the fridge 10-15 minutes before serving, so the mixture returns to its creamy consistency.
If you wish, you can flavor the cheese mixture with chopped chives, thyme, or parsley.
Vary the coating to your liking using, for example, sesame seeds, sweet paprika, or almond crumbs!
If you prefer, you can use only robiola or only cream cheese, or replace one of the two with mascarpone.

