name:
Lentil and Quinoa Meatballs
ingredients:
Precooked lentils: 1cup(200 g)- (drained weight)
Quinoa: 0.6cup(100 g)
Carrots: 1
White onions: 1
Garlic: 2cloves
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(50 g)
Eggs: 1
Powdered cumin: 1tsp
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Greek yogurt: 0.9cup(200 g)
Lemon juice: 1spoonful
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Lentil and quinoa meatballs are a healthy appetizer, full of flavor and perfect for those looking for a vegetarian alternative to classic meatballs . The combination of quinoa and legumes provides structure and substance, creating a rich and consistent mixture that forms the ideal base for these meatballs. The touch of spices, such as cumin and sweet paprika, gives a warm and aromatic flavor. The addition of breadcrumbs and an egg allows for soft but compact bites that, baked in the oven, become golden, crispy, and above all, light! For a touch of freshness, we suggest accompanying these delightful lentil and quinoa meatballs with a Greek yogurt sauce scented with mint and lemon.
Also try these vegetarian meatball recipes:

To prepare lentil and quinoa meatballs, rinse the quinoa under running water , then drain it into a pot, add salt , cover with about 7/8 cup of water , and cook for 15 minutes or until the water is completely absorbed.
Turn off the heat, cover with the lid , and let it rest for 5 minutes. After this time, fluff the quinoa and set aside . Peel and chop the garlic .
Peel and finely chop the onion , then do the same with the carrot . Also, chop the fresh parsley with a knife .
In a pan, heat a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil and sauté the onion and garlic until translucent. Add the carrot and cook for another 5 minutes, stirring occasionally .
In a large bowl, pour the quinoa, the drained precooked lentils , the breadcrumbs , and the sautéed vegetables .
Season with parsley, cumin , sweet paprika , salt, and pepper. Then incorporate an egg .
Mix well until you get a homogeneous mixture . If the mixture is too wet, add a little more breadcrumbs. With wet hands, take a tablespoon of mixture and form meatballs the size of a walnut, then flatten them slightly and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Bake the meatballs in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 20-25 minutes . Meanwhile, in a bowl, mix the Greek yogurt with chopped mint , lemon juice, salt, and pepper .
Once the cooking time has elapsed, take the lentil and quinoa meatballs out of the oven and serve them accompanied by the yogurt and mint sauce !
Lentil and quinoa meatballs can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days without the accompanying sauce.
You can freeze the meatballs after cooking.
The yogurt sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
If you wish for a richer flavor, you can replace Greek yogurt with an avocado cream, adding a creamy and slightly exotic touch to the sauce.
Instead of sweet paprika, try using turmeric or coriander for a more spicy and aromatic taste.

