name:
Yogurt Sauce
ingredients:
Greek yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Garlic: 1clove- small
Lemon peel: 1
Lemon juice: ½
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Lemon thyme: to taste
Natural plain yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Lime peel: 1
Lime juice: ½
Mint: 6leaves- chopped

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Yogurt sauce is a fresh and versatile dressing, perfect for enhancing dishes of all kinds. In just a few minutes and with a few ingredients, you can make a light and tasty sauce. It can be prepared in different versions depending on your needs and tastes. You can opt for the version with a lighter consistency and delicate taste, using plain yogurt and lime, or the one with Greek yogurt and garlic, with a bolder and more intense flavor, and a denser consistency. Both versions are perfect as a dressing for salads, a dip for crudités, or a sauce to accompany meat and fish dishes. Whether it’s to enhance the flavor of grilled vegetables, crunchy salads, or richer dishes, this sauce is a simple yet always effective solution.
If you're looking for more sauce recipes, also try:
To prepare the Greek yogurt sauce, first place the Greek yogurt in a bowl, then add the crushed garlic clove . Pour in the oil and add the lemon zest .
Add a few drops of lemon juice and some lemon thyme leaves . Season with salt .
Finish with a sprinkle of pepper and mix . Garnish with a few more thyme leaves .
To prepare the plain yogurt sauce, place the plain yogurt in a bowl and add the lime zest , a sprinkle of pepper , and the oil .
Add the juice of half a lime . Finely chop the mint and add it to the bowl .
Mix thoroughly and finish with a few more mint leaves . The two versions of yogurt sauce are ready to be used !
The yogurt sauce can be stored in the refrigerator in a closed container for 2-3 days.
With yogurt sauces, you can dress salads or chicken, pork chops, meatballs, and even crudités. For an exotic touch, you can add curry, smoked paprika, or cumin. To accompany fish, you can enrich the sauce with parsley, dill, or basil.

