name:
Colomba English Trifle
ingredients:
Colomba: 7oz(200 g)
Alchermes: 0.42cup(100 g)
Granulated sugar: to taste
Almonds: to taste
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Sugar: 0.7cup(140 g)
Egg yolks: 4.9tbsp(70 g)- (approximately 4 medium)
Dark chocolate: 1.8oz(50 g)- chopped with a knife
Cornstarch: 6tbsp(45 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time

instructions:
Easter is just around the corner and you haven't yet chosen the dessert to end your menu in style? The colomba English trifle is easy to prepare and will win over even the most demanding palates! Just like in the classic English trifle , this dessert also features custard in two flavors, classic and chocolate; but instead of the sponge cake usually used, this time we've chosen to use the Easter Dove Cake ... obviously to be soaked with alchermes! The colomba English trifle is a recipe for leftovers that will come in handy even in the days after Easter, when you don't know how to reuse the leftover colomba!
Here are some more ideas to avoid waste:

To prepare the colomba English trifle, first make the custard: pour the milk into a saucepan along with the vanilla extract and bring to a boil. Meanwhile, place the egg yolks in a bowl, beat them lightly, and add the sugar . Mix well with a whisk .
Now add the corn starch and mix again . As soon as the milk reaches a boil, slowly add it to the egg mixture, stirring to temper it .
Then pour everything back into the saucepan and cook over low heat, stirring until the custard thickens and comes to a boil again . Divide it into two bowls . Cover one of the bowls with plastic wrap in direct contact.
In the other bowl, add the grated chocolate and mix until completely melted , then let it cool. At this point, cut the colomba into slices 0.4 inches thick .
Then cut the slices into pieces . Take 4 cups with a capacity of 200 ml (about 0.85 cups) and line the bottom with pieces of colomba, pressing them slightly with your hands. Soak the colomba with alchermes and cover with a layer of classic custard .
Add a layer of chocolate custard and another of colomba , then soak again with alchermes .
Finish with a layer of classic custard and a layer of chocolate custard. Decorate with sprinkles and almond pieces. Store in the refrigerator until you are ready to serve your colomba English trifle !
The colomba English trifle can be stored for 3 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container.
Instead of alchermes, you can use your preferred liqueur; if you are looking for a non-alcoholic variant, you can use milk or coffee.
Corn starch gives the custard an excellent consistency, but you can also use all-purpose flour; however, in this case, it's preferable to use 350 g of whole milk and 150 g of cream.

