name:
Cheesecake pastiera
ingredients:
Cookies: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Butter: ½cup(115 g)
Cooked wheat: 1.3cups(250 g)
Whole milk: 0.3cup(80 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Orange peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Cream cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(125 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Candied citron: 0.9oz(25 g)
Candied orange: 0.9oz(25 g)
Orange blossom water: 2tbsp(30 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + 5 hours of rest in the fridge

instructions:
The cheesecake pastiera is an original reinterpretation of the classic Easter dessert: the Neapolitan pastiera . This traditional cake from Campania cuisine is a celebration of Mediterranean flavors and aromas, thanks to its rich combination of ingredients like cooked wheat, ricotta, candied fruits, and orange blossoms. But what happens if we take these same flavors and transform them into a different form? Thus, the cheesecake pastiera is born, an innovative and delicious reinterpretation of the classic pastiera. Here you'll find a crunchy cookie base replacing the typical shortcrust pastry, scented with citrus zest. The cheesecake pastiera is a luscious recipe that combines the creaminess of the cheesecake with the characteristic elements of the pastiera. Revitalize your Easter menu with this captivating recipe and also try other appetizing pastiera variations:

To prepare the cheesecake pastiera, start with the base: blend the dry cookies in a mixer until you get a sandy texture. Melt the butter in a saucepan over low heat and let it cool slightly. Then combine the pulverized cookies with the melted butter .
Mix to obtain a homogeneous mixture . Line a 8-inch springform pan with parchment paper. Pour the cookie mixture here and press with the back of a spoon to distribute it evenly across the entire base of the pan . Now place in the refrigerator to set and continue with the preparation.
Pour the precooked wheat into a saucepan together with the milk , the butter , and the grated zest of orange and lemon . Add a pinch of salt and cook for about ten minutes, stirring often.
In the end, the mixture should be creamy and almost dry , keep it aside and let it cool while you continue with the preparations. Soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for 10 minutes . Then heat the milk until it almost boils.
Remove the saucepan from the heat and add the sugar and the drained and squeezed gelatin . Stir immediately to dissolve the gelatin well . Let it cool slightly.
Meanwhile, in a bowl, add the ricotta, cream cheese, candied citron , and orange , scent with orange blossom water .
Add the now cold wheat and the milk with sugar and gelatin . Blend well with an immersion blender .
You will get a slightly grainy mixture , transfer it inside the mold and tap it on the work surface to distribute the cream well . Then put it back in the fridge for at least 4-5 hours.
Once set and unmolded, place 4 strips of parchment paper about 0.6 inches wide on the cheesecake . Dust the surface with unsweetened cocoa and then gently lift the strips to remove them.
Now apply another 3 strips in the opposite direction and dust again with cocoa to recreate the typical lattice of the pastiera. The cheesecake pastiera is ready to be enjoyed !
You can store the cheesecake pastiera in the refrigerator for 2 days.
You can freeze it without the cocoa decoration.
If you do not like the intense taste of sheep ricotta, you can use cow's milk ricotta.
Instead of orange blossom water, you can use millefiori water.
For an extra aromatic note, you can add ground cinnamon to the cream.
If you prefer a smoother texture, you can strain the cream after blending it with the mixer.



