name:
Piacenza Tortelli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2.3cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3
Fine salt: 1pinch
Spinach: 13.3cups(400 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1.3cups(300 g)- fresh, well drained
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 4.2oz(120 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Butter: (80 g)
Sage: 2sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + resting times (30 min.)

instructions:
Piacenza tortelli, also known as "tortelli with the tail" due to their elongated shape, are a delicious fresh pasta, easy to make at home! They are usually prepared in the province of Piacenza, especially around Easter, as they are meatless and perfect for serving on Fridays during Lent or to enrich your Easter menu, as a vegetarian option. The filling is made only with ricotta and spinach, and their shape is quite unique. The pinched closure is somewhat reminiscent of Sardinian culurgiones , although their shape is actually different as they are narrower and less plump. The turtei cun la cua are a true delight, learn how to make them by preparing fresh pasta at home... with a bit of manual skill and experience you'll learn to close them quickly! Here are some other Easter first courses you shouldn't miss:

To prepare Piacenza tortelli, first make the fresh pasta. Arrange the flour in a mound and pour the eggs into the center ; add a pinch of salt and start working with a fork , then knead by hand .
You should obtain a smooth dough ; wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest for half an hour in a cool place. Meanwhile, prepare the filling starting with the spinach: immerse them in boiling salted water and blanch them for a few minutes until wilted .
Drain the spinach and transfer them to cold water , preferably with ice. Then squeeze them very well and chop them finely with a knife .
Place the chopped spinach in a bowl, add the ricotta , salt, pepper, and nutmeg . Also add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP .
Mix well until you get a homogeneous consistency . At this point, take the dough that has now rested , take a portion of it keeping the rest covered. Lightly flatten the dough with a rolling pin .
Roll it out with a pasta machine ; as you reduce the thickness, fold the dough over itself and roll it out again .
You should get a very thin rectangle, about 0.04-0.08 inches thick . Cut 2 strips of dough by dividing the rectangle in half lengthwise , then cut out diamonds of 4 inches .
Fill the diamonds with the spinach filling and close them. To do this, bring one of the two longer points inward , then fold the two side points towards the center .
Now close the tortello by pinching the dough in the center and moving gradually towards the outside . The movement is similar to the closure of culurgiones. Continue in this way until the dough and filling are finished ; you will get about 40-45 pieces. Place a pot full of salted water on the stove. Meanwhile, in a pan, pour the butter and sage . Turn on the heat and let it flavor.
Then cook the tortelli for 5-6 minutes , then drain them and toss them in the butter and sage sauce . Plate and serve the Piacenza tortelli with plenty of grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP !
Raw Piacenza tortelli can be stored in the refrigerator for a few hours, covered with a slightly damp cloth. Alternatively, they can be frozen. Once cooked, they can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
Instead of the butter and sage sauce, you can serve the tortelli with a simple tomato sauce.

