name:
Colored Stuffed Eggs
ingredients:
Eggs: 8
Cabbage: 14.1oz(400 g)- purple
Precooked beets: 7oz(200 g)
Baking soda: to taste
Water: to taste
Cream cheese: 1.1cups(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Wild fennel: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + infusion time (at least 7 hours)

instructions:
Just like us, you also fell in love with our Colored Eggs , so we decided to offer them again this year, with a perfect variation for the Easter lunch! We are preparing colored stuffed eggs to serve as an Easter appetizer... thanks to their pastel shades you will add a beautiful touch of color to your table! We've tried many stuffed eggs, but this version is really easy: just mix the yolks with the cream cheese and the filling is ready! Create different purees to obtain various colors, customize the filling with the ingredients you love most, and amaze your guests with our recipe for colored stuffed eggs! Here are some other egg recipes to prepare for Easter:

To prepare the colored stuffed eggs, first make the purees. Chop the cabbage , immerse it in salted boiling water and let it cook for about 30 minutes .
Then drain it and blend it with an immersion blender to obtain a puree . Divide the puree into 2 bowls, and in one, add a bit of baking soda to make the color more blue . Mix well .
To create the pink color, dice the beetroot in a bowl ; add a little water and blend with an immersion blender to obtain a puree . Add more water if necessary.
Then move on to the eggs. Place them in a pot and cover with cold water . Turn on the heat and count 9 minutes from the first boil. Keep the flame low to avoid breaking the eggs, then gently drain and cool them in cold water. Tap the shell at the small air chamber at the base and peel them very gently . Try not to break the eggs; it's important that they remain smooth. Retrieve the 3 purees.
Immerse the eggs inside , so they are completely covered by the puree. Cover with plastic wrap and store in the refrigerator overnight. Then remove the eggs from the puree and rinse them quickly .
As you go, place the eggs on a tray , without placing them too close together. Keep in mind that they will still release some color. Halve the eggs , scoop out the yolk with a spoon and transfer them to a bowl .
Salt, pepper, and add the cream cheese . Pour in the oil and mix well with a whisk .
Transfer the mixture to a pastry bag with a star nozzle and stuff your colored stuffed eggs . Garnish with fennel sprigs and add another pinch of salt, pepper, and a drizzle of oil .
It is recommended to consume the colored stuffed eggs within 24 hours.
The leftover filling is great to spread on canapés and slices of bread! Peel the eggs very delicately and without haste: cooling them in water and finding the right point where the membrane is will make it easier. Even with cabbage, you can obtain a pink color, just add some lemon juice instead of baking soda. You can also use just the cabbage cooking water, but in this way, the color will be more intense.
Have the magical properties of cabbage intrigued you? Discover our surprising recipe for red cabbage soup !
If you are looking for other tasty and colorful appetizers, don't miss the recipe for Arlecchino savory truffles .

