name:
Crumbl cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Butter: 6oz(170 g)- soft
Whole cane sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Brown sugar: ½cup(90 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Baking powder: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)
Vanilla extract: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cream cheese: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Powdered sugar: ½cup(50 g)
Berries: to taste
Peanut butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- natural
Pecans: to taste
Dark chocolate: 1.75oz(50 g)
Chocolate sprinkles: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Who doesn't know cookies ! Straight from the United States, these famous large cookies have become part of our daily lives... so it's time to taste their new sweet evolution, crumbl cookies. Characterized by the typical chewy consistency of the originals, an irresistible mix of softness and crunchiness, they are even more delicious because they are decorated with colorful and creative frostings. Here we offer you 3 versions with a common base of cream cheese: one with a cheesecake flavor with berries, one with peanut butter and nuts, and one with chocolate and sprinkles. Of course, you can choose your favorite ingredients and unleash your imagination to create even more scrumptious and inviting crumbl cookies... we look forward to hearing your variations, in the meantime don't miss out on these cookie recipes:

To prepare the crumbl cookies, start with the cookie dough: in a bowl, combine the softened butter, salt , and vanilla extract . Cream them together with a hand whisk .
Add the raw cane sugar and brown sugar and mix again with the whisk .
Add the egg and incorporate it with the whisk , then add the sifted flour .
Add the sifted baking powder and mix vigorously until a homogeneous mixture is obtained . Finally, add the chocolate chips .
Incorporate them into the dough with a spatula . Using an ice cream scoop, take a portion of dough and place it directly onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Space the balls well apart from one another and bake them at 325°F for 20-25 minutes. After this time, remove the cookies from the oven and let them cool completely . Meanwhile, focus on the frosting: put the cream cheese in a bowl and sift the powdered sugar over it . In the meantime, melt the dark chocolate and let it cool slightly.
Mix well with a spatula , then divide the obtained cream into 3 equal parts . In one bowl, combine the natural peanut butter and mix well.
In another, add the melted chocolate and blend. Transfer the 3 creams into respective piping bags with nozzles of your choice . Now decorate your cookies, which should be cool by now: for the cheesecake flavor, use the base frosting, creating a pattern as you like .
Garnish with berries . For the nut flavor, use the peanut butter frosting and garnish with pecans, whole and chopped .
For the chocolate flavor, use the chocolate frosting and garnish with chocolate sprinkles . Your crumbl cookies are ready to be enjoyed !
Undecorated crumbl cookies can be stored for 4-5 days in an airtight tin or glass jar.
Once decorated, they should preferably be consumed within a few hours; they can be kept in the fridge for one day but will be less crumbly.
If you don't have an ice cream scoop, you can make your crumbl cookies by simply shaping the dough balls with your hands.
Crumbl cookies are very versatile and fun to customize: we gave you some ideas, but you can get creative with fresh and candied fruits, hazelnuts, peanuts, salted caramel, sprinkles, and whatever your imagination and cravings suggest!

