name:
Baked Amberjack
ingredients:
Amberjack fish: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (already gutted)
Lemons: 2slices
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Lemon thyme: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Lemon thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Baked amberjack is not only a healthy and light dish but also a delicious course for a dinner with special guests! Amberjack is a fish with lean, firm meat and a delicate flavor that is well-suited for various cooking methods. In this case, we have chosen to bake it whole with potatoes, a practical solution that allows you to optimize your time by preparing main course and side dish all at once. Moreover, this way the fish and potatoes will enhance each other's flavors for a result that is anything but bland and dry, also thanks to the addition of lemon, thyme, and rosemary which will make your baked amberjack irresistibly fragrant and aromatic!
Don't miss out on these tasty amberjack recipes:

To prepare the baked amberjack, first, take the already gutted fish and cut off the fins . If you bought a non-gutted fish, you can refer to our guide " How to clean the greater amberjack ". Place the lemon slices and the peeled garlic clove inside the belly of the amberjack .
Add the sprigs of thyme and rosemary , then salt the inside and place the fish on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Move on to the potatoes: peel them and slice them about 1/2 inch thick . Gather the potatoes in a bowl and add the crushed garlic clove .
Add also the sprigs of thyme and rosemary , then season with olive oil , salt, and pepper. Mix well .
Place the potatoes around the amberjack , then bake in a preheated static oven at 400°F for about 25-30 minutes. To check if it's cooked, you can insert the tines of a fork into the meatiest part of the fish: the flesh should appear opaque and flake easily. Once the cooking time is up, take it out of the oven and let it rest for a few minutes, then you can remove the skin . Once skinned, proceed to fillet the fish .
Plate the amberjack fillets on a bed of potatoes, then garnish with some fresh thyme leaves , a grind of pepper, and a drizzle of raw olive oil . Your baked amberjack is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the baked amberjack fresh out of the oven. If necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
Lemon thyme pairs wonderfully with fish! However, if you can't find it, you can use regular thyme or substitute it with sage or wild fennel.

