name:
Rice and Beans
ingredients:
Dried red beans: 1 ¼cup(220 g)
Ribe rice: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Carrots: - to clean
Celery: 2.1oz(60 g)- to clean
Yellow onions: 2.1oz(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste- chopped

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + the soaking time of the beans (at least 8 hours)

instructions:
Rice and beans is a simple and nutritious main dish. The combination of ribe rice and red beans creates a balance of flavors, while the sautéed vegetable base adds depth to the dish, giving the rice a delicious aromatic nuance. But the secret of this recipe lies in the bean cooking broth, which the rice absorbs, making it rich in flavor. Finally, chopped parsley adds that touch of freshness that's missing. This dish lends itself to different interpretations: you can leave it more brothy for a soup-like consistency or opt for a drier and creamier version. Perfect for a family lunch to be served on colder days when you want something warm and comforting. An easy recipe, with few ingredients, but rich in substance!
If you are looking for other rice and legume recipes, here is a small selection:
To prepare rice and beans, first soak the beans in cold water for 8 hours, or preferably overnight . Rinse them and transfer them to a pot with plenty of cold unsalted water . Cook for 1 hour from boiling. Drain and set aside both the beans and their cooking broth separately . Keep the latter warm.
Clean and dice the carrot , celery , and onion .
In a pot, pour a drizzle of oil, add the vegetables , and stew over a low flame for about 8 minutes, stirring often . Add the rice and let it flavor for 2 minutes .
Add about 3 1/2 cups of the hot bean broth , season with salt and pepper . Once it returns to a boil, cook, stirring occasionally, according to the cooking time of the rice on the package, about 15 minutes. In the last 3-4 minutes before the end of cooking, add the beans and mix well.
Once cooked, turn off the heat, add the chopped parsley , and stir. Taste and, if necessary, adjust the salt and pepper. Plate, complete with a drizzle of raw oil , and a sprinkle of chopped parsley . Your rice and beans are ready to be enjoyed!
Rice and beans can be stored in the refrigerator in a closed container for 2 days. You can freeze it, but when you want to serve it again, add some water when reheating, so it will be more brothy and similar to a soup. This way, the inevitably different texture of the rice will be less disappointing!
You can prepare this recipe with the beans you prefer, being careful to adjust the soaking and cooking times. For a livelier touch, add fresh chili in the sauté. If using pre-cooked beans, replace the bean broth with a simple vegetable broth.

