name:
Rice and Peas
ingredients:
Ribe rice: 1 ¾cup(320 g)
Peas: 3cups(450 g)
Shallot: 1
Water: 2 ½cups(600 g)- approximately
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: to taste
Lemon thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Perfect for a family dinner that pleases both adults and kids, rice and peas is a vegetarian first course with a simple and genuine taste. Our recipe suggests blending some of the peas to achieve a final texture similar to Risi e bisi , the typical Venetian dish, halfway between a risotto and a soup... a creaminess that is further accentuated by adding ricotta once the dish is ready! Easy and quick to prepare, rice and peas is a truly delicious recipe that requires very few ingredients and can be made whenever you feel like savoring it.
Also try these rice recipes with peas:

To prepare rice and peas, start by cleaning and chopping the shallot . Place the chopped shallot in a pot with a drizzle of oil and sauté over medium-low heat for 2-3 minutes, stirring often .
Add the peas and a pinch of salt , then cover with plenty of water (about 2 1/2 cups) .
Bring to a boil and cook for 5 minutes , then use a slotted spoon to remove half of the peas and transfer them to a pitcher with a little cold water .
Blend with an immersion blender until you get a smooth and silky cream with a bright color and set aside. At this point, add the rice to the pot with the peas and their cooking water and stir .
Cook for about 10 minutes, stirring often . When the water is almost completely absorbed, add almost all of the pea cream and cook for another 5 minutes, stirring often as if making a risotto .
At the end of cooking, turn off the heat and add the remaining pea cream . Season with a drizzle of oil and adjust with pepper and salt .
Finish the dishes with a spoonful of ricotta , a few leaves of lemon thyme, a grind of pepper, and a drizzle of oil . Your creamy rice and peas dish is ready to be enjoyed while still hot !
For the best consistency, it is recommended to consume rice and peas as soon as it is made. If necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator for up to 2 days; when reheating, you can add water or broth as needed to make it more like a soup.
Freezing is not recommended.
For a vegan variant, you can use plant-based ricotta instead of dairy ricotta. For a richer version, you can stir in butter and parmesan cheese!

