name:
Samosa
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Vegetable oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Peas: 0.7cup(100 g)
White onions: 1.75oz(50 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Garam Masala: 1spoonful
Dried chili pepper: 1tsp
Powdered turmeric: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Vegetable oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Whether you are traveling on the bustling streets of the Indian subcontinent or lost among the thousand scents of a Southeast Asian market, you will undoubtedly come across samosas, inviting pastries with a soft, spicy filling! This popular street food is believed to have originated in the Middle East, but thanks to ancient trade routes, it has become one of the most beloved snacks in Asian cuisine. Vegetable samosas are one of the most common and widespread vegetarian variants: they essentially consist of a fragrant pastry shell that is fried and filled with an extremely customizable mix of potatoes and vegetables, to which meat or legumes can also be added depending on the origin or religion of the family preparing them. Since there is no official recipe, we decided to offer you a vegan version of the filling made with potatoes, peas, and onions, but you can adapt it to your taste by adding or removing the ingredients you prefer... try for example our tuna samosas! Serve the samosas as a delightful appetizer for an ethnic dinner along with the typical Indian Naan bread or as a spicy snack for an exotic aperitif, perhaps accompanied with a delicious Cherry Tomato Chutney or a refreshing yogurt sauce like Raita , and guide your guests along new and intriguing paths of flavor... then, tell us about your journey!
Discover these Indian dishes as well:

To prepare the samosas, first wash and peel the potatoes , then cut them into 3/4-inch cubes and boil them in water for about 30 minutes, or until they are soft .
In the meantime, prepare the dough: in a bowl, combine the flour, salt , water , and vegetable oil .
Mix with a spoon to obtain a rough mixture , then knead the dough with your hands until you get a smooth ball . Cover and set aside.
Now, clean and chop the onion, then add it to a pan with the oil and the crushed garlic cloves .
Add the dried chili , turmeric , and garam masala and let it fry for a few minutes.
Add the cooked potatoes , peas , then mash the potatoes with a fork .
Adjust the salt , turn off the heat, and let it cool. Meanwhile, take the samosa dough and divide it into 4 equal parts, each weighing about 3.5 oz . Lightly flour the work surface and roll out the first portion of dough with a rolling pin .
You should form a disk with a diameter of 8 inches . Cut it in half to get 2 semicircles , then brush the edges with water .
With the base facing down, fold the first flap inward , then do the same with the other flap, slightly overlapping them and making them adhere . This way, you will obtain a sort of cone that you hold in one hand, placing it between your thumb and index finger, with the opening facing up .
Insert the filling into the samosas with a spoon , then use your fingers to push the filling down, leaving about 3/8 inch of free edge to facilitate closure . Brush the edge with water .
Close the edges well to seal the filling inside and prevent it from coming out during cooking ; you should create the shape of a filled pastry triangle . Proceed this way to form all the samosas and place them standing on the lightly floured work surface . With these quantities, you will obtain 8 samosas.
You are ready to fry: heat the vegetable oil to a temperature of 320°F-338°F and immerse 1-2 samosas at a time . Fry the samosas for 3-4 minutes, turning them gently in the hot oil. When they are beautifully golden and have characteristic bubbles on the outside, drain and transfer them to paper towels . Proceed in this way to fry all the samosas , then enjoy them while they're still hot and crispy!
It is recommended to consume the samosas as soon as they are ready, but you can store them in the refrigerator for one day.
They can be frozen raw and cooked directly from frozen, extending the frying time.
If you don't have garam masala, you can prepare it at home using a mix of powdered spices like coriander, cinnamon, fenugreek, and cumin.

