name:
Sicilian Sfinci
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Water: 2.1cups(500 g)- at room temperature
Raisins: 0.67cup(100 g)
Sugar: 4.8tbsp(60 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 0.3tsp(2 g)
Peanut seed oil: 3.6cups(800 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + rising time (about 2 hours)

instructions:
Sicily is famous for its street food... fragrant panelle , crispy arancine , delicious cartocci , and hearty Rizzuole with ragù, béchamel, and peas are popular all over the world. Today we offer you one of the oldest Carnival recipes, Sicilian sfinci: small bites of leavened dough fried in hot oil and enriched with raisins. Thanks to a sprinkle of granulated sugar, they become so tasty that one leads to another... in moderation! Like all traditional recipes, there are different versions of these Carnival fritters, some include adding boiled potatoes to the dough or a filling of chocolate chips, but we fell in love with this simpler version of Sicilian sfinci, made with a dough based only on water, sugar, flour, and raisins. Let us know if you liked it and what other variations you know!
Don't miss these typical Carnival sweets, both Sicilian and beyond:

To prepare Sicilian sfinci, start by soaking the raisins . Meanwhile, pour the room temperature water into another bowl and add the sugar .
Add the crumbled yeast and stir until it is completely dissolved . At this point, add the flour .
Work energetically for 5 minutes to dissolve any lumps . Add the salt and then the drained raisins .
Mix well , cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise away from drafts (for example, in the oven that's off with the light on) for a couple of hours or until it doubles in volume .
Heat plenty of seed oil in a pan to 340°F , then take a spoonful of dough and immerse it in the hot oil . Fry for about 3-4 minutes, occasionally turning the sfinci with a slotted spoon. Drain when they are nicely puffed and golden .
Transfer the fried sfinci onto a wire rack . When they are all ready, roll them while still hot in sugar ; this way the sugar will adhere better. Your Sicilian sfinci are ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume Sicilian sfinci as soon as they are ready!
Freezing is not recommended.
If you wish, you can flavor the dough with orange zest, lemon zest, or vanilla bean seeds!
The term "sfinci" also refers to another preparation, the Sfinci di San Giuseppe , also Sicilian, based on choux pastry, with a ricotta cream filling! Depending on the location, they are referred to as "sfinci" in the masculine or "le sfinci" in the feminine; moreover, these little sweets are also called "Sfincie," "Sfince," or "Spingi" based on the different areas.

