name:
Apple Tortelli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Eggs: 3
Golden delicious apples: 1
Baking powder: 1.6tsp(8 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you love fritters with a soft center, apple fritters are the Carnival recipe for you! These delightful fried bites are a variation of the classic Carnival fritters enriched with fruit. The apple cubes are wrapped in a delicate batter that is prepared in just a few minutes and becomes crispy and golden after frying, contrasting with the soft and delicious interior. A dusting of powdered sugar and the apple fritters will be ready to enjoy! What are you waiting for? In no time, you can serve homemade sweets whenever you desire or have the occasion!
If you're looking for other Carnival sweets, try these variants of fritters or castagnole :

To prepare the apple fritters, first peel the apple and cut it into small cubes. In a bowl, place the sugar and eggs . Whisk by hand , then add the apple cubes .
Add the flour and sifted baking powder to the bowl. Mix well to avoid lumps and to obtain a smooth mixture .
In a pot, heat the vegetable oil to a temperature of 320°F. Scoop the batter using 2 tablespoons to create small balls, then carefully drop them into the oil ; to make it easier, dip the spoons into the hot oil first, so the batter slides off better. Fry 5-6 fritters at a time to avoid lowering the oil temperature too much, and fry for a couple of minutes, stirring often for an even golden color. Drain the fritters and transfer them onto frying paper or absorbent paper to remove excess oil . Continue until all the batter is used; with these amounts, you'll get about 30 fritters.
Once they are slightly cooled, plate them and dust with powdered sugar . Your apple fritters are ready to be enjoyed !
It's recommended to consume the apple fritters immediately. If necessary, you can store them at room temperature for one day in an airtight container.
If you like, you can flavor the batter with cinnamon or grated lemon zest; alternatively, you can add a tablespoon of rum or amaretto liqueur.
For a lighter version, you can bake the apple fritters in the oven at 350°F for about 15-20 minutes, until golden brown.

