name:
Mini filo pastry pasqualina pies
ingredients:
Phyllo dough: 9fogli
Quail eggs: 12
Swiss chard: 7cups(250 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.8cup(200 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to grate)
Garlic: 1clove
Nutmeg: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
The torta pasqualina is a traditional Easter savory pie characterized by many layers of crispy pastry and a filling with Swiss chard, cheese, and hard-boiled eggs. By reducing these elements in size, the result does not change... and so here are the mini filo pastry pasqualina pies, a cute single-serving variant! We created crunchy filo pastry baskets that hold a soft filling of ricotta and herbs, crowned with a small quail egg. An appetizing starter for the Easter menu, but also an original idea for the Easter Monday picnic! Follow our instructions to prepare the mini filo pastry pasqualina pies or choose one of these other mini versions:

To make the mini filo pastry pasqualina pies, start with the herbs: remove the base and roughly chop them , then place them in a large saucepan where you have heated the oil with a clove of garlic .
Sauté over high heat for a few minutes , then slightly lower the heat, cover with a lid, and cook for about 15 minutes. At the end of cooking, the liquid should be almost dry , but to be sure, transfer the herbs to a colander and press them to remove the excess liquid . Allow to cool.
Meanwhile, prepare the filling: pour the beaten eggs into a bowl where you have placed the ricotta , then add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP and the nutmeg .
Salt and pepper, then mix everything with a whisk. Finally, add the well-drained herbs and stir to incorporate them evenly.
Now focus on the filo pastry baskets: take a sheet of filo pastry and cut it in half , then stack the obtained rectangles and cut them in half again lengthwise . Further divide the strips in half to obtain 8 small rectangles for each filo pastry sheet. Continue this way with all the other sheets .
Place a small rectangle on the work surface and lightly brush it with melted butter . Stack a second small rectangle diagonally and brush it as well .
Place the third small rectangle diagonally in the opposite direction and brush it too. Finally, lay the fourth small rectangle transversely to the first and brush again. Transfer everything to a muffin tin that you have previously buttered and press it to form a basket shape . Continue this way to make all the baskets; you will need 4 small rectangles for each one: always remember to butter each layer.
When all the baskets are ready, fill them with the ricotta and herb mixture . With the help of a spoon, create a hollow on top and gently slide a quail egg inside, which you have carefully shelled .
Now create the lids for the baskets: cut out the remaining small rectangles of filo pastry with a cookie cutter slightly smaller in diameter than the muffin tin . Stack 2 small circles of filo pastry for each basket, always brushing them with a little melted butter .
Place the lids thus made on the filling of each basket and lightly butter the surface . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 20 minutes, then turn on the grill to 428°F and continue baking for 10 minutes until golden. Remove from the oven and serve your mini filo pastry pasqualina pies hot or at room temperature !
The mini filo pastry pasqualina pies can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, in an airtight container.
For the filling, you can use herbs, Swiss chard, or spinach!
If you prefer, you can replace cow's milk ricotta with sheep's milk ricotta, for a more intense flavor.
You can brush the filo pastry sheets with oil or water instead of butter.

