name:
Beetroot Ravioli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Eggs: 4
Beets: 0.9lb(400 g)- (to be cleaned)
Gorgonzola cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Whole peeled hazelnuts: ¼cup(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Sage: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 30 min. of resting time for the fresh pasta

instructions:
Beetroot ravioli are a first course that combines taste and color in an explosion of authentic flavors. The fresh pasta , made with flour and eggs, encases a rich and creamy filling of roasted beetroots, gorgonzola, and hazelnuts. The contrast between the sweetness of the beetroot and the bold flavor of the gorgonzola creates a perfect balance, while the hazelnuts add a crunchy touch that enriches every bite. But the real peculiarity of beetroot ravioli lies in the sauce made with the sautéed leaves and stems: a clever and tasty way to use scraps with zero waste!
In addition to ravioli, also discover these delicious first courses with beetroot:

To prepare the beetroot ravioli, start with the filling: separate the beetroot root from the leaves , which you will use later for the sauce. Peel the beetroot and cut it into cubes of about 1.5 cm (0.6 inches) ; you should obtain about 200 g (7 oz) of cleaned pulp.
Transfer the beetroot to a baking tray and season with oil , plenty of hand-torn sage, salt , and a clove of garlic. Cook in a preheated static oven at 200°C (392°F) for about 35 minutes. In the meantime, take care of the fresh pasta: pour the flour onto a work surface, create a well in the center, and add the eggs here .
Start incorporating the eggs into the flour with a fork , then continue by hand , kneading the dough for at least 10 minutes. When it is smooth and compact , cover it with plastic wrap and let it rest for half an hour at room temperature.
When the beetroot is well roasted, remove the garlic and transfer it to a blender, then add hazelnuts and gorgonzola and blend thoroughly.
You need to obtain a smooth puree , then transfer it to a piping bag without a nozzle and set aside in the fridge. At this point, retrieve the dough and cut off one portion at a time, making sure to keep the remaining dough well covered to prevent it from drying out. Flour and slightly flatten the dough , then pass it through the pasta machine, starting with the widest setting .
Fold the sheet to regularize the shape , then pass it again at the first setting and continue decreasing it gradually until reaching the penultimate setting. You should obtain sheets about 2 mm (0.08 inches) thick . Pipe small mounds of filling on the bottom half of a sheet, spacing them well apart from each other .

Fold the top half to cover the mounds and press the sheet well around the filling to adhere perfectly and release air bubbles. Cut out round ravioli using a 6.5 cm (2.5 inches) diameter pastry cutter and continue until the ingredients are used up. You can re-knead the scraps and roll them out again after allowing the dough to rest briefly. As you form the ravioli, place them on a tray lined with parchment paper .
Take care of the sauce: take the beetroot leaves set aside and separate the stems. Roughly chop the leaves , keeping a few whole for plating. Blanch the chopped leaves in salted boiling water for one minute . Drain and save the cooking water that will be used to boil the ravioli.
Transfer the leaves to a bowl, add a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil and blend with an immersion blender to obtain a puree . In a separate pan, heat a splash of oil and add the beetroot stems cut into chunks .
Season with salt and sauté over high heat for 3-4 minutes . Drop the ravioli into the same water where you cooked the leaves after bringing it back to a boil.
Cook the ravioli for 2 or 3 minutes , then drain them into the pan with the stems and toss briefly to flavor them .
Plate the beetroot ravioli and finish with a few drops of the leaf oil , a grind of pepper, and some whole leaves set aside. Your beetroot ravioli are ready to be served !
Beetroot ravioli can be stored in the refrigerator for one day, in an airtight container.
Raw ravioli can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap, on a floured tray, for one day, making sure they do not stick together. If you wish to freeze them, transfer them to the freezer directly on the tray; once frozen, you can collect them in a food bag and store them for up to 2 months.
If you prefer a milder alternative, you can replace gorgonzola with crescenza cheese.
If you cannot find fresh beetroot, you can use vacuum-packed pre-cooked beetroot.
For an even more visually appealing final result, prepare the Fresh Beetroot Pasta with a pastel pink hue!
Do not throw away the beetroot peel but create delicious snacks by following our Vegetable Peel Chips recipe.

