name:
Pasta with spinach and taleggio
ingredients:
Mezzi paccheri pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Spinach: 10cups(300 g)
Taleggio cheese: 10.6oz(300 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to be grated)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(60 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Spinach and taleggio: a rustic but decidedly winning combination, perfect for a creamy main course! Pasta with spinach and taleggio is prepared in less than half an hour and will make everyone’s mouth water thanks to the gooey and super tasty sauce. The Sautéed Spinach is blended to obtain a delicate vegetable cream that perfectly coats the mezzi paccheri. To make it even more appetizing, we also decided to place the pasta under the oven grill for a few minutes to form a delicious crust of breadcrumbs and grated cheese. Have we convinced you? Then tonight it's pasta with spinach and taleggio for everyone!
Also discover these tasty spinach main courses:

To prepare the pasta with spinach and taleggio, pour a drizzle of olive oil into a pan and brown an unpeeled garlic clove for a couple of minutes , then add the fresh spinach and salt .
Let the spinach wilt over medium heat for about 8 minutes . Once cooked, transfer the mixture to a pitcher, add the olive oil , and blend with an immersion blender .
You should obtain a smooth consistency . Boil the mezzi paccheri in salted boiling water , in the meantime remove the rind from the taleggio and cut it into pieces .
Drain the pasta al dente directly into the pan with the heat off , mix well , and add the taleggio .
Sprinkle with the grated Parmesan and breadcrumbs . Transfer everything to a baking dish (in this case, we used a pan for oven cooking). Grill at maximum power for 5 minutes or until the surface is golden brown . Your pasta with spinach and taleggio is ready to be served!
Pasta with spinach and taleggio can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer a milder flavor, you can replace the taleggio with fontina!

