name:
Meatballs with Lemon
ingredients:
Ground beef: 0.8lb(350 g)
Sausage: 8.8oz(250 g)
Eggs: 2
Lemon juice: 0.3cup(70 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Breadcrumbs: 3.3tbsp(50 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- (to grate)
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- for cooking
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Vegetable broth: ½cup(100 g)
Lemon juice: 3.3tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Parsley: to taste
Lemon peel: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Tasty and aromatic, lemon meatballs are an ideal main dish for those looking for a delicious alternative to classic meatballs . The combination of ground beef and sausage is enriched by the lively citrus scent of lemon.
By following the recipe steps, you'll get soft and flavorful meatballs, accompanied by a creamy cooking sauce that makes them even more appetizing!
Perfect for a family lunch or a dinner with friends, lemon meatballs are very easy to prepare and are sure to become a favorite recipe for both adults and children!
If you are looking for other variations, also try these meatball recipes:

To prepare the lemon meatballs, combine the ground beef and crumbled sausage in a bowl , then add the eggs and breadcrumbs .
Add the grated pecorino cheese , chopped parsley , and salt .
Finally, season with a grind of black pepper and grated lemon zest . Knead vigorously with your hands to mix everything together .
You should obtain a compact and homogeneous mixture . Take about 2 oz of the mixture and shape it into a round meatball , slightly flattening it at the edges .
With these quantities, you will get 16 meatballs . In a large pan, melt the butter and place the meatballs here .
Brown the meatballs for 5 minutes over medium-high heat, covering with a lid. At this point, turn the meatballs with a spoon or spatula ; if they are not yet golden on that side, continue cooking for another 2 minutes. After turning them, deglaze with lemon juice .
Cover again with the lid and continue cooking for another 8 minutes. Once cooked , remove the meatballs from the pan and keep them warm. In the same pan, melt the butter for the sauce .
Once melted, add the flour and stir with a whisk to avoid lumps . Now add the lemon juice and hot vegetable broth .
Transfer the meatballs back to the pan and cook over low heat for a minute, stirring gently. Finally, garnish with grated lemon zest and parsley . Your lemon meatballs are ready to be served hot !
Lemon meatballs can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container. Alternatively, you can freeze them.
If you prefer, you can replace the pork sausage with the same amount of ground veal.
You can cook lemon meatballs in the oven at 350°F for 30 minutes, turning them halfway through cooking.

