name:
Fregola with clams and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Semolina: 3cups(500 g)- coarse
Water: 1cup(240 g)- warm
Saffron: ½tsp(0.15 g)- (1 packet)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (well purged)
Datterino tomatoes: 2cups(300 g)
Garlic: 4cloves
Lime: 1- juice and zest
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Parsley: to taste
Water: 1.67cups(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Fregola with clams and cherry tomatoes is a first course that encapsulates all the tradition and flavor of Sardinian cuisine. The preparation of this delicacy begins with making How to make Sardinian fregola , a type of pasta similar to couscous, which is distinguished by its irregular shape and the texture that makes it ideal for being seasoned with flavorful sauces like this one with clams and cherry tomatoes. To make fregola, the typical scivedda , a terracotta bowl, is used which represents the soul of this recipe. Here, coarse semolina is worked with water and rubbed by hand with circular finger movements (hence the name fregola) to obtain small lumps that are then dried in the oven, where they acquire a delicate golden color. Preparing fregola requires patience and a bit of practice, but the final result is a pasta that perfectly absorbs the sauces and releases an extraordinary flavor. Taste the fregola with clams and cherry tomatoes, enlivened by the fresh scent of lime, and also be tempted by these other recipes with fregola:

To prepare fregola with cherry tomatoes and clams, first make the homemade fregola: put the saffron in a small bowl with lukewarm water and stir well until it dissolves . Pour some of the coarse semolina into the typical scivedda and start mixing with your fingers, adding the saffron water one tablespoon at a time .
Continue rubbing with your fingers in circular motions while adding a tablespoon of water at a time until very small lumps form . Finally, dust the fregola with fine semolina and spread it on a baking tray with parchment paper .
Bake in a fan oven at 248°F for about an hour . Once dried and golden, remove from the oven and let cool . Set aside the fregola and prepare the seasoning.
In a well-heated pan, sauté 2 cloves of garlic, a fresh chili pepper, and parsley stems in a drizzle of oil . Turn up the heat and add the clams, which you have already soaked and drained .
Pour half a glass of water and cover with a lid for a few minutes , so they all open. Drain the clams in a colander .
Collect their liquid in a bowl and then pour it into a pot with 14 ounces of water to create a light broth . Shell the clams, leaving some with the shell for plating . Cut the cherry tomatoes into 8 parts .
In a saucepan, heat a drizzle of oil with a clove of garlic and the chili pepper . Add the cherry tomatoes and cook on high heat for a few minutes, then pour in a ladle of the clam broth .
Add the fregola and another ladle of broth then season with salt . Continue cooking like a risotto, adding the broth little by little only when it has been absorbed. At the end of cooking, remove the garlic and chili pepper .
Stir off the heat with a drizzle of oil, add the clams and finish with chopped parsley, lime zest, and juice . Mix well and serve the fregola with cherry tomatoes and clams immediately !
It is recommended to consume the fregola with cherry tomatoes and clams immediately.
Homemade fregola can be stored in a cool, dry place for a month.
To form the fregola, it is essential to work the dough little by little, gradually adding water, otherwise, the lumps will be too large.
Lime can be replaced with lemon, which offers similar freshness, though with a less acidic flavor.

