name:
Millefeuille Cannoli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Lard: 2.3tbsp(30 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Marsala wine: 1oz(30 g)
Eggs: 1
Salt: 1pinch
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Dark chocolate: 0.7oz(20 g)- shaved
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Lemon peel: to taste
Orange peel: to taste
Black cherried in syrup: 0.3cup(80 g)
Ground pistachio: ½cup(60 g)
Peanut seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the dough resting time in the fridge (30 min.)

instructions:
The millefeuille cannolo is a dessert that gives the famous Sicilian cannoli a completely unique twist. The structure resembles that of the typical millefeuille : the golden, crisp wafers, arranged in layers, alternate with a velvety Ricotta cream , enriched with chocolate flakes, citrus zest, and cinnamon for a fragrantly spiced aroma. The dish is completed with brightly colored syrupy sour cherries and pistachio crumbles, a characteristic ingredient of Sicilian cuisine. Perfect as a dessert for a special dinner, the millefeuille cannolo will captivate your guests at first sight!
Don't miss these delicious variations of the classic cannoli:

To make the millefeuille cannolo, start with the dough preparation: in a stand mixer, place the flour, lard , sugar , and dry Marsala wine .
Add an egg , a pinch of salt , and start the machine with the paddle attachment until you obtain a coarse dough .
Move to the work surface and knead with your hands until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough ball. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest in the fridge for 30 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the filling: in a bowl, place the ricotta, then add the powdered sugar , dark chocolate flakes , and grated lemon zest .
Also add the orange zest , cinnamon , and mix well until all the ingredients are combined. Transfer everything into a piping bag without a nozzle and set aside.
Take the dough again and roll it first with a rolling pin and then with a pasta machine , starting from the largest thickness down to the smallest. The sheet should have a thickness of about 0.08 inches. Place it on the lightly floured work surface and cut it in half for easier handling, then cut out discs with a 3.5-inch round cutter . You can re-knead the remaining dough; let it rest for 30 minutes in the refrigerator, then roll it out again to create more discs. With these quantities, you should obtain about 20 discs.
Heat the seed oil to a temperature of 320°F-340°F, then immerse 2-3 discs, 2-3 at a time . After a couple of minutes, they will start to brown on one side, then turn them over and fry for another 2 minutes. Drain and transfer to paper towels to remove excess oil .
You are ready to plate: squeeze a dollop of cream in the center of the plate, then place a wafer on top . Fill the wafer with cream and continue in this way until reaching a total of three wafers. Add a tuft of cream also on the surface and garnish with the syrupy sour cherries .
Drizzle with the sour cherry syrup and complete with pistachio crumbles . Proceed in this way to make the other five towers. Your millefeuille cannolo is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the millefeuille cannolo immediately, otherwise the wafers will lose their crispness.
As an alternative to the classic ricotta cream, you can fill the dessert with vanilla or chocolate custard cream.
If you prefer, you can garnish the dessert with strawberries, raspberries, or slices of candied orange.
If you love pistachios, add pistachio cream to the ricotta and replace the pistachio crumbles with almond flakes!

