name:
Beef Sirloin with Vegetables and Chimichurri Sauce
ingredients:
Beef sirloin: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- at room temperature
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: 1.1oz(30 g)- (to chop)
Garlic: 2cloves
Red wine vinegar: 8 ½tbsp(120 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(110 g)
Lemon juice: 1
Dried chili pepper: ½tsp
Oregano: to taste- dry
Black pepper: to taste
Zucchini: 2
Eggplant: 1
Red peppers: 1
Carrots: 1
Red onions: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + resting times

instructions:
If you love red meat, especially sirloin, this recipe will whet your appetite immediately! Beef sirloin with vegetables and chimichurri sauce is a main course for bold palates, perfect to share with friends along with a good glass of red wine. The chimichurri , a typical Argentine sauce made with parsley, garlic, oregano, and chili pepper, flavors the meat with its uniquely bold and aromatic taste, while the roasted vegetables serve as a colorful and fresh side. A complete dish with a guaranteed success... serve the beef sirloin with vegetables and chimichurri sauce for your next get-together and let us know if we were right!
Don't miss these beef sirloin recipes too:

To prepare the beef sirloin with vegetables and chimichurri sauce, start with the sauce: in a bowl, combine the dried oregano , the chopped dried chili pepper , and the finely chopped parsley .
Crush the garlic cloves after removing the inner sprout , then add salt and lemon juice .
Pour in the oil and red wine vinegar , then mix well . Let it rest at room temperature for at least 30 minutes to blend the flavors.
Meanwhile, prepare the meat: remove the membrane from the sirloin , then cut it into slices about 1.5 inches thick . Salt and let rest at room temperature for about 30 minutes to absorb the flavors.
Move on to the vegetables: trim and slice the carrots first , then into thin sticks . Do the same with the eggplants, making slightly thicker sticks as they will cook faster .
Also cut the bell pepper into strips of the same size as the eggplants . Slice the zucchinis into rounds about 0.4 inches thick , and finally, slice the onions into half-moons .
Spread all the vegetables on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , then season with salt, pepper , and a crushed garlic clove .
Flavor with thyme and rosemary , then drizzle with a bit of oil and mix with your hands to season the vegetables uniformly . Bake in a preheated fan oven at 392°F for about 25-30 minutes.
When the vegetables are cooked , take them out and return to the sirloin: season the slices with a drizzle of oil and massage it on both sides .
Place a cast-iron grill pan on the heat. When it's hot, lay the slices of meat and cook on both sides for a total of 5-6 minutes (about 3 minutes per side) ; this will result in a medium doneness.
Transfer the sirloin to a rack and let it rest for 8 minutes so the juices redistribute. After the resting time, slice the meat and plate: distribute the roasted vegetables .
Place the slices of meat over the vegetables , then drizzle with the chimichurri sauce . Serve your beef sirloin with vegetables and chimichurri sauce immediately !
It's recommended to consume the beef sirloin with vegetables and chimichurri sauce immediately.
Roasted vegetables can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
You can slightly reduce or increase the cooking time of the meat to obtain a rarer or well-done result.
Adjust the amount of chili in the chimichurri sauce according to your taste.
You can vary the vegetables as you prefer depending on the season!

