name:
Grilled artichokes with fiordilatte and herb sauce
ingredients:
Artichokes: 4
Fior di latte mozzarella cheese: 14.1oz(400 g)
Capers in vinegar: 4tsp(20 g)
Lemons: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Pepper: to taste
Parsley: 4sprigs
Mint: 3sprigs
Wild fennel: 2sprigs
Chives: 10fili
Extra virgin olive oil: 6.8tbsp(100 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Ice: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 16 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Grilled artichokes with fresh mozzarella and herb sauce is an easy yet gourmet side dish, perfect for impressing guests! An ideal spring recipe that combines the freshness of seasonal artichokes with the creaminess of fresh mozzarella, all enriched by an aromatic herb sauce. Grilled to perfection to enhance their texture, the artichokes become the heart of a simple yet refined dish, perfect also as an appetizer or a light vegetarian main course. If you are looking for original artichoke ideas, this is the recipe for you: ready in a few steps with fresh and genuine ingredients. Discover how to prepare the best grilled artichokes with fresh mozzarella and herb sauce ever!
Here are more delicious artichoke-based side dish recipes:

To prepare grilled artichokes with fresh mozzarella and herb sauce, start with the herb sauce: pluck the parsley leaves into a bowl, add the chives, fennel fronds, and mint . Blanch everything in salted boiling water for a few moments , then drain .
Transfer the herbs into a bowl with ice water (to cool them and keep the color vibrant . Squeeze them well and place them into a jug, then add the oil and salt .
Add the water and blend well with an immersion blender to obtain a smooth sauce .
Now for the artichokes: peel them , cut off the initial part of the stem , and peel it .
Remove the tougher tips . Cut the artichokes in half and remove the inner choke with a small knife , then immerse them in water and lemon to prevent browning .
Boil the cleaned artichokes for 5 minutes in the same water used to blanch the herbs , then drain into ice water until they are cooled .
Dry them with paper towels and season with oil and salt in a bowl . Grill the artichokes on a well-heated grill for 5 minutes on each side .
They should have the typical grill marks . Meanwhile, drain and cut the fresh mozzarella into pieces . You are ready to plate: arrange the artichokes and mozzarella on the plate .
Drizzle with the aromatic sauce , then finish with capers and a sprinkle of pepper. Enjoy your grilled artichokes with fresh mozzarella and herb sauce immediately !
We recommend consuming the grilled artichokes with fresh mozzarella and herb sauce immediately.
You can store just the grilled artichokes in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
If desired, you can replace the herbs with arugula and basil for a bolder flavored sauce!

