name:
Ricotta and spinach gnocchi
ingredients:
Spinach: 7.1oz(200 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Eggs: 1
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Sage: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Ricotta and spinach gnocchi are a main course with a delicate taste and soft texture, perfect for those who love simple yet flavorful preparations. The combination of creamy Homemade Ricotta with spinach creates a green-tinted dough that, unlike potato gnocchi , literally melts in your mouth. We chose to dress these delightful gnocchi simply with butter and sage, but they would also be excellent with a tomato sauce or a light cheese fondue, for example. Ideal for a family lunch or a dinner with friends, ricotta and spinach gnocchi are one of those recipes that pleases everyone, both young and old!
Try these variations of ricotta gnocchi as well:

To prepare ricotta and spinach gnocchi, first blanch the spinach in salted water for 3-4 minutes . Drain them and transfer them into a bowl with ice water . Drain them again and place them in the center of a clean tea towel, then squeeze out all the water .
Finely chop the spinach with a knife and place them in a bowl along with the ricotta and the flour .
Add the Parmesan cheese and the egg , then adjust with salt and pepper .
Mix the ingredients with a spoon until you obtain a homogeneous consistency ; if it turns out too soft, add a bit more flour. Move to a floured work surface, divide the dough into 4 parts, and form uniform logs with a thickness of 1-1.5 cm (about 0.39-0.59 inches) .
Sprinkle the logs with a little more flour , then cut them into pieces of about 2 cm (approximately 0.79 inches) . Then gently pass them over a gnocchi board to give them the classic shape .
In a pan, melt the butter over medium heat and flavor it with sage . Meanwhile, cook the gnocchi in boiling salted water . Stir them and, as soon as they rise to the surface, after about 2-3 minutes, drain them directly into the pan . Briefly sauté everything to let them absorb the flavors well.
Plate the dish by finishing with a generous sprinkle of Parmesan and a few sage leaves . The ricotta and spinach gnocchi are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the ricotta and spinach gnocchi fresh. If necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator for one day, in an airtight container.
You can store the raw gnocchi in the refrigerator, arranged on a floured tray and covered with plastic wrap, for one day.
If you wish, you can freeze them: arrange them on a tray without overlapping, and once they harden, transfer them into a food bag. This way they will keep for up to 2 months, and you can cook them directly in boiling water without defrosting them.
For a richer condiment, you can replace the butter and sage with a cream of gorgonzola or taleggio! Alternatively, you can opt for a tomato sauce scented with basil.

