name:
Beef cheek with artichokes
ingredients:
Beef: 1.8lbs(800 g)- cheek
White onions: 1
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Garlic: 2cloves
Red wine: 4 ¼cups(1.2 l)- approximately
Meat broth: 2cups(500 g)
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Juniper berries: 2
Cloves: 2
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
White celery: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to clean)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Artichokes: 4- (to clean)
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 3 h 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
If you've never cooked beef cheek, this recipe will surprise you with the succulent and exquisite result! Beef cheek with artichokes is a main course with an intense and bold flavor. The beef, thanks to the long cooking, softens slowly until it becomes incredibly tender, while the cooking juices transform into a dense and aromatic glaze. The pan-fried artichokes are excellent as a side dish, while the celeriac cream embraces the cheek with its velvety and enveloping texture. Thanks to the addition of spices and aromatic herbs, you will also achieve a particularly deep and complex flavor, to savor slowly forkful after forkful... follow our recipe and you will serve a truly perfect beef cheek with artichokes!
Don't miss out on these variations as well:

To prepare the beef cheek with artichokes, first make the beef stock with our recipe and keep it warm. Clean the meat by removing the membrane . In a pot, pour a drizzle of oil, add the meat , and sear over high heat for about 2 minutes on each side.
Remove the meat from the pot and clean the bottom with a paper towel , then pour a glass of wine from the total amount and deglaze the bottom . Set the cooking juices aside.
In the same pot, heat another drizzle of oil, then add the finely chopped celery, carrot , and onion . Also add the unpeeled garlic cloves and sauté over medium heat for a few minutes until the vegetables are soft.
Place the meat back in the pot , cover with the remaining wine (about a quart) , and bring to a boil. At this point, add the rosemary and bay leaf .
Also season with cloves , juniper berries, and, if you like, a cinnamon stick . Finally, pour the wine reserved for deglazing the pot's bottom .
Cover with the hot stock , add salt and pepper . Wait for it to return to a boil, then lower the heat and cook with the lid on for about 3 hours .
Meanwhile, prepare the side dish. Clean the celeriac and cut it into cubes , then cook it in boiling salted water for 15-20 minutes . Drain and transfer the celeriac to a container, then add the oil .
Season with salt and pepper , then blend with an immersion blender until smooth and homogeneous. Transfer it to a saucepan and keep warm .
Now proceed to the cleaning of the artichokes : remove the tougher outer leaves , then shorten the stem and peel it starting from the base of the artichoke . Cut off the tips .
Cut the artichokes in half and remove the inner choke , then cut them into quarters and immediately immerse them in acidulated water .
In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, add the artichokes , season with salt and pepper . Sauté over medium heat for about 6-7 minutes or until golden .
After the meat cooking time has elapsed, remove it from the pot and strain the cooking juices . Pour the liquid part back into the pot and reduce it over medium-low heat for about thirty minutes; you should obtain a glaze with a consistency thick enough to coat the spoon. Meanwhile, slice the meat .
Put the meat back in the pot and drizzle with the glaze . Plate by spreading a layer of celeriac cream on the bottom of the plate , then place the meat on top and add the artichokes all around .
Coat the meat with a spoonful of glaze and finish with fresh mint leaves . Your beef cheek with artichokes is ready to be served !
The beef cheek with artichokes can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to 2 days.
As an alternative to celeriac cream, you can prepare classic mashed potatoes or soft polenta.
If you prefer, you can replace the artichokes with porcini mushrooms or champignons sautéed in a pan with garlic and parsley!

