name:
Pizza alla Nerano with stuffed crust
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 8.8cups(1 kg)- (280 W)
Water: 3cups(700 g)
Fine salt: 4.4tsp(25 g)
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(3 g)
Ricotta di bufala cheese: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Zucchini: 4cups(500 g)
Fior di latte mozzarella cheese: 14oz(400 g)
Provolone cheese: 10.6oz(300 g)- del Monaco
Whole milk: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Mint: to taste
Ground black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + rising time (about 9 h)

instructions:
Pizza alla Nerano with stuffed crust is inspired by the traditional Campanian recipe of Spaghetti alla Nerano , combining the pizza dough with the irresistible taste of fried zucchini and Provolone del Monaco to create a dish with a rich and enveloping flavor. The crust, stuffed with creamy buffalo ricotta, adds an extra touch that will make you appreciate every single bite! Perfect for those looking for a dish that combines tradition and innovation, the pizza alla Nerano with stuffed crust can be prepared both in a home oven and a wood-fired oven, for an even more authentic and flavorful final result.
If in addition to classic pizzas like Margherita pizza or Neapolitan pizza , you want to explore other enticing versions, here are some ideas:

To prepare the pizza alla Nerano with stuffed crust, combine the flour and dehydrated yeast in a bowl. Gradually pour in the room temperature water, stirring with a spoon until the flour has absorbed all the liquid .
Add the salt and continue mixing to incorporate it . Transfer the dough onto a lightly floured work surface and knead by hand for about 20 minutes .
Shape the dough into a ball, cover it with the bowl , and let it rest for at least 5 minutes on the work surface . After this time, use a dough scraper to cut out 6 dough balls of approximately 9 oz each .
Form dough balls: slightly flatten the dough , fold the dough towards the center , and shape into a ball .
Place the dough balls on a tray lined with parchment paper and let them rise for about an hour at room temperature, covered with plastic wrap. Then transfer the tray to the refrigerator for a night (about 8-10 hours). Prepare the zucchini alla Nerano: wash and trim the zucchini, then slice them with a mandoline to get thin rounds .
Fry the zucchini in vegetable oil at about 320°F, a few at a time and for a short time ; they should just turn golden . Drain the fried zucchini on a tray lined with paper towels to absorb the excess oil .
Drain the ricotta well and place it in a bowl with the milk . Mix and season with fresh mint leaves . Set aside this cream which will be used to stuff the crust .
Drain the mozzarella well and cut it into sticks . After the rising time, take the dough balls and leave them at room temperature for 30 minutes. Then work them one at a time on the floured work surface . Stretch the dough ball with your hands to create a disc about 12 inches, making sure the center is thicker than the edge. Distribute the ricotta cream along the edge .
Fold the outer edges inward to cover the filling and form the crust around the entire circumference . Distribute the fried zucchini in the center .
Add the mozzarella and drizzle with a little olive oil . Place a pizza stone in the oven and preheat it in static mode at the maximum temperature (482°F-572°F). Bake the pizza and cook for about 6-7 minutes.
Remove from the oven and immediately add the grated Provolone del Monaco , then garnish with fresh mint . Proceed in the same way to cook all the pizzas. Your pizza alla Nerano with stuffed crust is ready to be enjoyed !
We recommend enjoying the pizza alla Nerano with stuffed crust immediately.
Once risen, the pizza dough can also be frozen, preferably already divided into portions, and stored in a freezer bag. Later, you will only need to let your portion thaw at room temperature and proceed according to the recipe.
The zucchini frying process must be very quick, otherwise, they will burn in the oven.
If you can't find Provolone del Monaco, you can replace it with another stretched curd cheese with a strong flavor, such as caciocavallo or aged pecorino.
If you don't have a very powerful oven at home, you can add 1 tbsp of sugar and 2 tbsps of olive oil to the dough.

