name:
Polenta with Spring Vegetables
ingredients:
Instant flour for polenta: 1.67cups(200 g)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Stracchino cheese: 1.4cups(350 g)
Salt: to taste
Asparagus: 1.1lbs(500 g)- to clean
Peas: 1.1lbs(500 g)- to be shelled
Fresh scallion: 2 ½cups(250 g)- to clean
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Polenta with spring vegetables is a rich and enveloping single dish. The soft consistency of the polenta perfectly pairs with the gooey stracchino cheese, creating a creamy base for the asparagus and peas. A dish with vibrant colors, perfect for a casual lunch or dinner with family or friends, where you can enjoy the contrast in textures between the soft polenta and the crunchy vegetables. Despite its name, polenta with spring vegetables is a versatile recipe as it allows you to use the same base and vary the vegetables according to the season.
If you are looking for more spring recipes, don’t miss:
To prepare the polenta with spring vegetables, the first step is to remove the woody part of the asparagus stem . Peel the remaining stem and cut it into small diamonds , keeping the tips aside.
Shell the peas . Cut the spring onion in half, then into diamonds, place it in a non-stick pan with a drizzle of oil and stew for 3-4 minutes. Then add the peas .

Add the asparagus stems , season with salt and add a bit of water . Cook for 8-10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Meanwhile, blanch the asparagus tips for 1-2 minutes and set aside.
To prepare the polenta, bring salted water to a boil, then sprinkle in the cornmeal and stir continuously with a whisk for 5 minutes or until thickened. Turn off the heat, add the stracchino cheese , and stir until the polenta becomes gooey .
Place a generous ladle of polenta on a serving dish, then add the topping in the center and the asparagus tips . Scent with some thyme leaves .
Finish with a drizzle of raw oil and a sprinkle of pepper . Your polenta with spring vegetables is ready to be served .
Polenta with spring vegetables is best served freshly prepared, but you can store it in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can vary the vegetables according to your taste, for example by adding radishes, broad beans, sugar snaps, or green beans. Enrich the dish with chickpeas or white beans for more protein content. For a completely vegan version, replace the stracchino cheese with a vegetable béchamel. Use whole-grain or buckwheat polenta for a stronger flavor and a more robust consistency.

