name:
Pan-fried Bread
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(275 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 5tsp(15 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 7 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note (the cooking time refers to a single piece)

instructions:
Pan-fried bread is an easy and quick alternative to homemade bread that will win you over with its simplicity and goodness. It is prepared without needing to turn on the oven and does not require any leavening time, making it a practical and versatile solution when you get home and realize you don't have bread! Crisp on the outside and soft on the inside thanks to the quick cooking in a pan, this type of bread made with instant yeast is great to enjoy on its own, to accompany your favorite dishes, or stuffed, to create delicious sandwiches. You can also serve it for breakfast with some jam or for an aperitif with friends... in short, pan-fried bread is a true ally in the kitchen, you just have to decide how to customize and use it!
Discover these other variations of pan-cooked bread:

To prepare the pan-fried bread, pour the flour into the bowl of the stand mixer , then add all the water at once and the salt .
Add the instant yeast for savory preparations and the oil . Turn on the stand mixer at medium speed .
After about 5 minutes you will get a rough dough, then transfer it to the work surface and knead it briefly until you form a smooth, non-sticky ball . Divide the dough into 8 pieces using a dough scraper .
Slightly flatten the first piece of dough, then fold the edges toward the center and roll it on the work surface with the palm of your hand to form a ball . Proceed in the same way with the other pieces, then let the balls rest at room temperature for 5 minutes, covered with a cloth . At this point, lightly flour the work surface and flatten the balls slightly with your hands .
Roll out with a rolling pin until you get a diameter of about 8 inches (20 cm) and a thickness of about 1/4 inch (0.5 cm) . If the dough retracts, let it rest for a few more minutes and then proceed again. You are ready for cooking: pour the oil into a non-stick pan and heat it up.
Gently place the dough in the pan , cover with a lid leaving a small vent , and cook over medium heat for 3-4 minutes on one side . When bubbles form on the surface, turn the bread with the help of a spatula .
Cook for another 3 minutes, still with the lid partially closed . When it is nicely golden on both sides, remove the bread from the pan and proceed in this way to cook all the others. Your pan-fried bread is ready, enjoy it while it's still warm !
Pan-fried bread can be stored in the refrigerator for one day. Before serving, heat it in a pan over medium-high heat without a lid for one minute on each side.
To make pan-fried bread even richer and more appetizing, you can replace the amount of oil with the same amount of lard.
If you wish, you can flavor the dough with aromatic herbs like thyme and rosemary!

