name:
Finnish pancakes
ingredients:
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)- at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Eggs: 3- at room temperature
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)- melted
Peanut butter: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste
Blueberries: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Have you ever tried Finnish pancakes? Pannukakku are different from classic pancakes : they are baked in the oven in a pan and remain soft inside and golden outside! The secret? A simple batter made of milk, eggs, and butter, which puffs up in the oven creating an incredibly fluffy texture. Perfect for breakfast or a snack, they are generally served with berries, maple syrup, or peanut butter, or with whipped cream for a delicious touch! Try Finnish pancakes now and discover the magic of Nordic pastry with other recipes like Quick Finnish Pulla , typical Christmas treats from the Finnish tradition.
Discover new ideas to prepare delicious and original pancake recipes:

To prepare Finnish pancakes, pour the eggs, sugar , and melted lukewarm butter into a bowl. Mix vigorously with a hand whisk .
Sift the flour into the bowl and mix well with a whisk to avoid lumps .
Pour the milk in a thin stream , continuing to mix with the whisk until you get a smooth, homogeneous, and lump-free batter . Butter and line a 20x30 cm (8x12 inches) rectangular pan with parchment paper. Pour the batter.
Bake in a preheated static oven at 220°C (428°F) for about 25 minutes, placing the pan on the lower rack . The Pannukakku will be ready when it is puffed and golden, then remove from the oven and let it cool slightly . Garnish with peanut butter to taste .
Complete with fresh blueberries and powdered sugar . Your Finnish pancake is ready , cut it into slices and serve immediately!
Finnish pancakes can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can fill Finnish pancakes with Greek yogurt and fresh seasonal fruit for a fresh and balanced touch!

