name:
Tropea Onion Jam
ingredients:
Red Tropea onions: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Cognac: 1oz(30 ml)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Brown sugar: 1cup(200 g)
White wine: 3.4oz(100 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 6 hours of onion maceration and the time for jar sanitization

instructions:
Tropea onion jam is a special type of preserve with a distinct sweet and sour taste that is prepared using the typical Tropea onions, which have a burgundy color and a sweeter flavor than white or yellow onions. Tropea onion jam, like Pepper Jam , pairs perfectly with cheeses, enhancing their flavor without overpowering the aroma. The ideal cheeses to accompany this preserve are very aged and flavorful ones like Pecorino, Parmesan, provolone, or smoked cheeses in general; but Tropea onion jam can also accompany various types of meat (preferably flavorful ones) like pork, game, or wild game, especially if roasted. For lovers of homemade preserves, Tropea onion jam represents a uniquely flavored variant to traditional vegetable preserves.
Also, try the recipe for caramelized Tropea onions , perfect as both an appetizer and a side dish!
To prepare Tropea onion jam, start by cleaning the onions: peel them (1 and 2), wash them, dry them, and slice them thinly . If you prefer, you can slice them using a mandoline.
Place the sliced onions in a large bowl and add granulated sugar , brown sugar , and wine
Cognac and the bay leaf . Mix well to flavor the onions .
Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let the onions marinate for at least 6 hours in a cool, dry place, stirring occasionally. After the necessary time, the onions will have absorbed the flavors. Remove the bay leaf , place the onions in a pot , and turn on the heat. At this point, dedicate yourself to sanitizing the jars and lids, as indicated in the Ministry of Health guidelines linked at the bottom of the recipe.
Return to the onions: let them boil on very low heat until the mixture thickens (this will take about 25-30 minutes). After 30 minutes, your jam should be ready : take a bit of the mixture with a teaspoon and let a drop fall onto a plate. The drop should stay compact : this is the proof that your preserve is ready. If the drop slips away and does not stay compact, continue cooking for the necessary time, stirring frequently.
Then turn off the heat and jar the hot jam, using the appropriate funnel and ladle , making sure to leave about 1 centimeter (0.39 inches) of space from the edge. Close the jars and let them cool . Once the jars have cooled, place them in a cool, dark place. Wait at least a month before consuming the jam. If you use jars with rubber seal closures, when you are ready to consume the Tropea onion jam, you can check the vacuum seal by pulling the appropriate tab: if it produces a sharp noise, it means the contents have been preserved correctly under vacuum. On the other hand, if pulling the tab makes the seal feel "soft," it means the vacuum was not created correctly and it is better not to eat the contents. If you use jars with screw caps, once you have jarred the hot jam, close the caps tightly but not too tightly and let them cool. With the heat from the mixture, a vacuum will form, which will allow the product to be preserved for a long time. Once the jars have cooled, check if the vacuum has been created correctly: you can press the center of the cap, and if you do not hear the typical "click-clack," the vacuum has formed. Once you have verified that the preservation was successful, your Tropea onion jam is ready to be enjoyed!
Tropea onion jam can be stored for 3 months, making sure to keep the jars in a dark, cool, and dry place. It is advisable to wait at least 2-3 weeks before consuming the jam. For storing the jam, get jars with airtight closures that are not too large; the ideal capacity is 250 ml (8.45 oz), as when you open one, you should consume the jam within 3-4 days at most, always storing it in the refrigerator.
To flavor Tropea onion jam, you can replace the white wine with a rosé, and cognac with another liquor such as brandy, or with vinegar to give it a tangy note. For an even stronger flavor, you can add cloves during the marinating phase of the raw onions. Remove the cloves before cooking.
Calabrian Tropea onions are highly renowned thanks to their sweet and delicate flavor and their fleshy texture: they are easy to recognize as they are composed of various concentric layers of white flesh with a red shell, have bordeaux-colored skin, and often have an elongated shape.
For the correct preparation of homemade preserves, it is necessary to follow the guidelines indicated by the Ministry of Health, reported here: Guidelines for the correct preparation of food preserves in a domestic setting . It is a list of hygiene rules for the kitchen, the person, and the tools used, as well as indications on the correct sanitization of jars, treatment of ingredients, pasteurization, and storage. Before preparing a preserve (jams, marmalades, compotes, chutneys, oil-preserved foods, pickles, fruit in syrup, fruit jellies, marinades, pesto), it is wise to read the instructions carefully to avoid health risks.

