name:
Chili Oil
ingredients:
Hot peppers: 1.1oz(30 g)- dried
Extra virgin olive oil: 33.8oz(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + 48 hours of rest and the time for sanitizing the bottles

instructions:
Do you want to add a kick to a salad, a pasta dish, or even pizza? Chili oil is a powerful ally for all those who love to add a spicy note to their dishes, giving a burst of flavor even to the simplest foods. Making chili oil is very easy, and you can use it both as a seasoning and to marinate meat or fish before grilling. And if you want to test your taste buds, you can also try it pure by drizzling a bit (sparingly!) on a slice of toasted bread: you won't be able to do without it anymore!
To prepare chili oil, start by sanitizing the bottles, as indicated in the guidelines from the Ministry of Health at the bottom of the recipe, making sure to remove any metal parts and rubber gaskets before boiling the bottles. Once you have completed this operation, put on a pair of gloves and take the dried chili peppers: remove the stem and crumble them one by one, collecting the skins and seeds in a bowl (2-3).
When all the chili peppers are crumbled, place a funnel inside the previously sanitized bottle and pour in the crumbled chili peppers . Then, with the help of the funnel, also pour in the extra virgin olive oil . Close the bottle and let it rest for at least 48 hours before you can start using the oil as you like!
Chili oil can be stored for 5-6 months in a cool, dry place, away from heat sources and direct sunlight.
For easier crumbling and longer preservation, it is recommended to use well-dried chili peppers. It is also recommended to exercise utmost care when handling chili peppers: always wear gloves and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose, and mouth!
Do you have fresh chili peppers? You can dry them in the oven at the lowest temperature (it will take several hours) until they are well dried or dry them in the sun, preferably in summer, covered with a thin cloth to avoid dust or other contaminants.
The home preparation of preserves and jams can present health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the necessary conditions and measures to guarantee the safety and suitability of food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures are able to ensure in order to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to scrupulously follow food safety instructions to reduce risks, but one must always bear in mind that one can never achieve the same food safety as professionally produced preserves and jams. For the correct preparation of home-made preserves, we refer to the Italian Ministry of Health guidelines

