name:
Risotto agretti and lemon
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Friar's beard (agretti): 7oz(200 g)- (to clean)
Shallot: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Lemons: to taste- (zest and juice)
White wine: ½cup(100 ml)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to be grated)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Discover the agretti and lemon risotto, a simple and tasty first course that celebrates the flavors of spring. The agretti, with their delicate and slightly bitter taste, perfectly combine with lemon, creating an aromatic and fresh risotto. Easy to prepare, this recipe is ideal for a family lunch or with friends. Thanks to the butter and Parmesan, the agretti and lemon risotto gains an irresistible creaminess, the perfect choice for those looking for a healthy, balanced, and inviting dish!
Are you intrigued by this spring vegetable and want more ideas to cook with agretti? Here are some delicious recipes:

To make the agretti and lemon risotto, first prepare the vegetable broth and keep it warm. Move on to the How to Clean and Cook Agretti : after carefully washing them under running water to remove any earthy residues, cut off the toughest part of the stems , then finely chop them . In a pan, heat some olive oil with a clove of garlic .
Add the agretti and sauté them for 5 minutes, then salt and pepper halfway through cooking .
When cooking is complete, remove the garlic clove and set aside. Clean and chop the shallot . In a saucepan, melt the butter gently .
Add the chopped shallot . Cook over medium heat until it becomes soft and transparent. Pour in the rice and toast it for a few moments. Deglaze with the white wine and let the alcohol evaporate.
Moisten with the hot broth, one ladle at a time , waiting for the liquid to be absorbed before adding more. When the rice is cooked, after about 18-20 minutes, add the agretti, reserving a couple of tablespoons to garnish the plates, then stir in butter and grated Parmesan. Scent with grated lemon zest .
Season the risotto with a few drops of lemon juice , then, without stirring, cover with a lid and let it rest for a minute . Then stir to combine all the flavors.
Serve the risotto on plates, adding more lemon zest , pepper, and finish with the reserved agretti . The agretti and lemon risotto is ready to be served !
We recommend consuming the agretti and lemon risotto immediately. If there are leftovers, it can be stored in the fridge for two days in an airtight container.
You can prepare the agretti in advance and store them in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
If you have difficulty finding fresh agretti, try looking for them in local markets or organic stores during the spring season!

