name:
Ricotta and herb ravioli with walnut sauce
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Swiss chard: 5.3oz(150 g)- mixed (to clean)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to grate)
Eggs: 1
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Walnut kernels: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Garlic: ½clove
Water: to taste
Walnut kernels: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time in the fridge for the fresh pasta (30 min.)

instructions:
Making homemade ravioli is an art that can provide great satisfaction, so we encourage you to challenge yourself with this delightful recipe: ricotta and herb ravioli with walnut sauce! A first course that you will love from the very first bite... these tasty parcels of fresh pasta hide a creamy filling made of ricotta and vegetables, which can vary depending on availability; we've chosen a mix of swiss chard and spinach. To dress them, we propose a simplified version of the walnut sauce that, with its rich and full flavor, adds a rustic note to the dish, making it truly appetizing. Perfect to impress friends and family, the ricotta and herb ravioli with walnut sauce will be even more delicious because they are made with your own hands!
Discover also these variations of Ricotta ravioli :

To prepare the ricotta and herb ravioli with walnut sauce, start with the fresh pasta dough: pour the flour onto a pastry board, form a well, and add the eggs , oil , and salt in the center.
Start to mix with a fork to gradually incorporate the flour , then continue to knead by hand until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough . Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the filling: clean the mixed herbs and blanch them for 3-4 minutes in boiling salted water . Drain the herbs in ice water , then squeeze them well to eliminate excess water .
Finely chop the herbs and transfer them to a bowl, then add the ricotta and grated Parmesan cheese .
Also add the egg , salt, pepper , and nutmeg .
Mix well to obtain a homogeneous mixture . If it turns out too soft, you can add a bit more grated cheese. For convenience, transfer the filling to a piping bag without a nozzle and set aside. Proceed with the walnut sauce: toast the walnut halves in a non-stick pan for 2-3 minutes , then let them cool.
Transfer the walnuts to a mixer, making sure to set aside a few for plating, then add the grated Parmesan cheese , half a clove of garlic , and the oil .
Salt, pepper, and pour a splash of water . Blend until you obtain a creamy and homogeneous consistency , then set aside. Now take the dough from the refrigerator and divide it in half with a dough scraper .
Flatten and lightly flour the first portion of the dough, then roll it out using a pasta machine, starting with the thickest setting ; you should reach a thickness of 1/16 inch. Proceed in the same way with the second portion of the dough, then cut discs with a round cutter with a diameter of 3 inches . You can re-knead the scraps and roll them out again after letting the dough rest. Pipe a tuft of filling in the center of each disc, then moisten the edges with water .
Fold the disc into a half-moon shape and press the edges well, making sure to expel all the air , then join the ends and pinch them together.
Gradually place the ravioli on a tray dusted with flour . You are ready for cooking: bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the ravioli for 3-5 minutes . Meanwhile, pour the walnut sauce into a pan and add a ladle of the pasta cooking water .
Mix well to obtain a creamy sauce , then drain the ravioli here and combine everything off the heat .
Plate the ravioli and finish with grated Parmesan cheese and the reserved toasted walnuts . Your ricotta and herb ravioli with walnut sauce are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the ricotta and herb ravioli with walnut sauce immediately. If necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
You can freeze the ravioli for up to a month: place the tray with the ravioli in the freezer for a couple of hours, then transfer them to freezer bags. When ready to use, boil them directly from frozen in boiling water and proceed as per the recipe.
The walnut sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days in a tightly sealed glass jar.
For the filling, you can use your preferred vegetables, such as spinach, swiss chard, or field herbs.

