name:
Grilled Octopus
ingredients:
Octopus: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- already cleaned
Red onions: ½
Lemon peel: 1
Lemon juice: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parsley: to taste- minced
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Red peppers: 1
Cucumbers: 1
Tomatoes: 1- large
Arugula: 8cups(200 g)
Chickpeas: 1 ½cup(300 g)- already cooked

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + marinating time for the octopus (30 minutes)

instructions:
Grilled octopus is a seafood main course that will easily impress your guests! The octopus is first cooked slowly, then marinated to absorb new aromas, and finally grilled quickly: this gives it a crispy and irresistible crust. To complete the dish, there is a mix of colorful and juicy vegetables: sautéed peppers, fresh cucumbers, tomatoes, and red onion. Perfect for a summer lunch or a Mediterranean-flavored dinner, grilled octopus is a light but flavorful dish, sure to win you over with its simplicity.
If you love octopus recipes, don't miss out on:
To prepare the grilled octopus, start by submerging the octopus in boiling water , cover with a lid , and let it cook for 40 minutes. Meanwhile, peel the pepper .
Cut it in half and remove the seeds and internal filaments . Slice it into strips . In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil and add the peppers .
Season with salt and pepper and sauté for about 5 minutes. Scoop out the tomato, removing the seeds and the harder central part . Cut them into small cubes .
Peel the cucumber, remove the seeds, then cut it into strips first and then into small cubes . Also slice the onion into thin slices .
Once cooked, drain the octopus and cut it into pieces leaving the tentacles intact .
In a bowl, place the grated lemon zest , chopped garlic , and chopped parsley .
Add the lemon juice , oil , onions , salt, and pepper. Mix well to combine the ingredients.
Add the octopus , stir , and let it marinate for 30 minutes .
Grill the octopus for 3-4 minutes on each side . In the same bowl where you marinated the octopus, add the peppers .
Add the arugula, previously washed and dried, the cucumber , the tomato , and the pre-cooked chickpeas . Mix to combine everything.
Plate the salad and place the octopus next to it . The grilled octopus is ready to be enjoyed .
Grilled octopus should be consumed as soon as it's ready. Alternatively, it can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
A classic pairing includes adding boiled potatoes, cut into cubes and seasoned with oil, lemon, and parsley. You can enrich the marinade with smoked paprika, chili pepper, or grated ginger for a bolder touch.

