name:
Baked Turbot
ingredients:
Turbot: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- whole (already gutted)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Asparagus: 0.9lb(400 g)- (to clean)
Leeks: 2
Garlic: 2cloves
Lemons: 1
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
If you're looking for a simple, tasty dish perfect for any day, baked turbot is just what you need! A dish that combines the main course and side dish in one preparation, cooking everything conveniently in the oven, saving time and effort. Once ready, the delicate flesh of the turbot will easily separate, making cleaning and filleting a breeze, much simpler than working with raw fish. To accompany the baked turbot, we chose asparagus and leeks, but you can personalize the recipe with your preferred seasonal vegetables, for a dish that changes all year round!
Discover other delicious baked fish recipes to prepare at home:

To prepare the baked turbot, first preheat the oven to 392°F. Clean the asparagus by removing the tougher white part ; if they are too hard, peel the stalks to thin them out (with fresh ones, it's not necessary). Cut the stalks into pieces and move on to the leeks: trim the base, remove the outer layers, and slice them into rounds about a quarter-inch thick .
In a baking dish lined with parchment paper, spread the leeks and asparagus, then season with 2 whole garlic cloves and parsley .
Salt , pepper, and drizzle with some oil . Thinly slice a lemon .
Move the vegetables to create space in the center of the baking dish, then lay the lemon slices here ; this way, the turbot will cook more gently, preventing it from drying out. Make a cross incision on the back skin of the turbot , then place it on top of the lemon slices and salt the surface.
Drizzle with a bit of extra virgin olive oil and bake for about 25-30 minutes at 392°F . The turbot will be ready when the skin easily lifts off with a fork .
When plating, distribute the vegetables on the base , then place the turbot fillet on top and season with the cooking juices . Your baked turbot is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the turbot immediately after baking. If there's any leftover, store it along with the side dish in the refrigerator, well covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for 1-2 days at most.
Freezing is not recommended.
To vary the side dish for the baked turbot according to the season, you can replace the leeks and asparagus with other vegetables of your choice: in summer, for example, you can use peppers and eggplants, in autumn, mushrooms and Brussels sprouts, while in winter, kale and sweet potatoes!

