name:
Baked Chicken Cutlets
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (8 slices)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Eggs: 2- (medium)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Stale bread: 5slices- (thick cut)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salad: to taste
Lemons: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note plus 30 minutes of resting the cutlets in milk

instructions:
Veal cutlets , Turkey cutlets or Vegetarian cutlets , we like cutlets in every way! But have you ever tried baked chicken cutlets? A fantastic alternative to fried ones! Making them is really simple and with our tricks, you will get tender and juicy meat and a super crispy breading. Baked cutlets will be loved by both adults and children, and you can prepare them for any occasion. Today we decided to make the breadcrumbs at home for a more rustic result that will give your breading an extra edge! Let's discover together all the secrets to getting perfect chicken cutlets . And if you're looking for other variations, also try:

To prepare baked chicken cutlets, place the slices in a large bowl, add the milk , cover with plastic wrap, and let them soak for about 30 minutes . You can leave it at room temperature or store it in the fridge if it is too hot. This step will make the cutlets very tender. In the meantime, cut the bread into cubes .
Transfer them into a mixer and blend at maximum speed to obtain coarse and rustic breadcrumbs. Transfer them to a large bowl . Take a chicken breast slice, draining off the excess milk, and coat it in flour on both sides .
Repeat the same operation for all the others and transfer them to a plate . Break the eggs into another bowl, lightly beat them , and add the salt .
Beat again until well absorbed . Take a floured chicken breast slice and dip it in the egg on both sides , then drain the excess egg and transfer it to the bowl with the breadcrumbs .
Bread both sides, pressing with your hands to make the bread adhere well . Transfer to a baking tray lined with parchment paper and continue with the others. Add a pinch of salt .
Drizzle them with some oil and bake in a preheated static oven at 400°F for about 25-30 minutes on the middle-lower rack. Cooking time may vary depending on your oven and the size of the cutlets. Once cooked and well browned, take them out of the oven . Place them on a serving plate with some salad leaves and lemon slices , then serve immediately.
Baked chicken cutlets can be stored for 1-2 days in the refrigerator, well covered. Just reheat them in the oven before serving.
Enrich the breadcrumbs with aromatic herbs like parsley, sage, or thyme. Alternatively, you can also use spices like paprika, curry, or turmeric. Cow's milk can also be replaced with plant-based milk.

