name:
Smoky Macaroncini
ingredients:
Sedanini Rigati pasta: 14.1oz(400 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Smoked pancetta: 6.3oz(180 g)
Tomato purée: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Emmentaler cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Caciottina cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- (soft, sweet)
Dried chili pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Powdered coriander: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Creamy and tantalizing, so good it rivals carbonara and amatriciana ! We are talking about smoky macaroncini, a first course invented by Stefano Marzi of the Mac Iste' restaurant in Castelpiano in the Marche region. In the Giallozafferano kitchen, he personally demonstrated how to make this easy and rich first course, perfected in 1978. Tomato sauce, bacon, cream, and two special mixes: cheeses and spices. The best dishes are often those characterized by few ingredients, simple gestures, and a lot of passion. Replicating smoky macaroncini at home will be very simple, and you can delight your guests for a quick lunch or a perfect dinner with this robust-tasting pasta from the Marche region!
Discover other tasty first courses:
To make smoky macaroncini, start by dicing the smoked bacon . Dice the caciotta and Emmentaler as well.
Grate the Parmesan and gather all the cheeses in a bowl . In the meantime, place a pot full of water on the stove and salt it when it boils; this will be for cooking the pasta. In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil and add the bacon .
Salt and then pour in the spice mix . Let it flavor while stirring for a few moments, then pour in the tomato sauce and cook for at least 10 minutes.
Cook the pasta until al dente . At the end of the pasta's cooking, add part of the cheese mix and stir. Add the cream and mix again.
Drain the pasta directly into the sauce , add the remaining cheese mix, and stir again so that the sauce and cream combine . The smoky macaroncini are ready to be served !
We recommend consuming the smoky macaroncini immediately.
Customize the mix of spices and cheeses to your taste; choose melting cheeses, like Fontina for example. You can indeed create delicious variations of this tantalizing first course! Be careful not to overcook the spices, or the sauce will turn bitter.
Stefano Marzi, along with his wife Annamaria and son Mirko, owns "Mac Iste's" Restaurant and pizzeria in Castelplanio, in the province of Ancona. Besides being famous for his originality and charm, as well as his extraordinary bodybuilder physique, since 1978 he has been "sautéing" the famous smoky macaroncini, a creamy first course made with sauce, bacon, cream, cheeses, and a special mix of spices. This dish has made him very well known both in Italy and abroad.

