name:
Lemon Pound Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Sugar: 0.8cup(160 g)
Eggs: 5.5oz(155 g)- about 3 medium
Butter: (150 g)
Potato starch: 6tbsp(50 g)
Lemon juice: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Lemon peel: 2
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Poppy seeds: 1.4tsp(7 g)
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The plumcakes, which you can prepare with a different flavor every time, are the perfect allies for breakfast and snack time. Today we offer you the fragrant lemon plumcake, an easy and quick recipe that can be prepared without a mixer or stand mixer. To the very soft and lemon-scented dough, we also added poppy seeds, as in the famous lemon poppy seed cake : a delicate crunchy note that reminds you of the taste of a sweet hazelnut. Since plumcakes entered our kitchen, they immediately enchanted us, but the lemon plumcake will make you fall in love. Try it and let us know!
Is having plumcake for breakfast a habit of yours? Discover other delicious versions:

To prepare the lemon plumcake, first melt the butter and let it cool slightly. Meanwhile, sift together in a large bowl: the flour , the cornstarch , and the baking powder .
In another bowl, break the eggs, add the sugar , and mix for a few minutes with a hand whisk . Scent with grated lemon zest .
Then pour in the juice and the mix of dry ingredients . Also, add the poppy seeds .
Finally, add the melted butter . Now that all ingredients are incorporated , pour the mixture into a 10x4 inch flared mold, buttered and floured .
Dip a scraper in a bit of melted butter and create a long line that divides the batter . Bake the plumcake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for about 45 minutes; perform the toothpick test to be sure. When it's ready, let your lemon plumcake cool before enjoying it .
The lemon plumcake keeps for 2-3 days covered in a cool place.
Poppy seeds can be omitted if you prefer, or you can replace them with pine nuts to be placed on the surface just before baking. If desired, you can replace half the lemon juice and zest with orange juice and zest, or with grapefruit or bergamot (be careful of the characteristic bitter note).

