name:
Baked Paprika Chicken Thighs
ingredients:
Chicken legs: 6
Sweet Paprika: 1 ½tbsp(10 g)
Hot Paprika: 1tsp(5 g)
White wine: 2.1oz(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: 1tbsp(15 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus marinating time

instructions:
If chicken thighs are your favorite part of the chicken and you are looking for an alternative recipe to the classic pan-fried chicken thighs , you will definitely appreciate today's recipe. Baked paprika chicken thighs are a delicious alternative, easy to prepare at home! Marinating the chicken in advance will allow the meat to absorb all the flavor of the paprika, and once cooked, the thighs will be much juicier! Discover how long to cook them and at what temperature to get moist meat and crispy skin! Here are other chicken recipes to try:
To prepare the paprika chicken, start by seasoning the thighs with salt , sweet and hot paprika . Mix well with your hands to distribute the flavors .
Pour the oil , white wine , and season with pepper to taste .
Continue to massage the thighs, allowing them to absorb the flavors evenly . Once the ingredients are well mixed, transfer the seasoned thighs to a baking dish where they fit snugly together and pour the marinade over them .
Cover with plastic wrap and let marinate in the fridge for at least 30 minutes . After the necessary time, take the thighs and place them on a baking tray . For convenience, you can pour the marinade into a small bowl .
Brush the surface of the thighs with the marinade and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 45 minutes. Every 10 minutes, brush the surface of the thighs and turn them halfway through cooking . Once your paprika chicken is ready, you can enjoy it piping hot !
The paprika chicken can be stored in the fridge for 2-3 days, keeping the container covered.
If you want, you can marinate the chicken for a longer time, but it is best not to exceed 8 hours of marinating. Freezing is not recommended.
Love spicy food? Add a good sprinkle of chili powder!
The salt will not be absorbed by the meat, so you can be confident about the indicated amount! However, if you prefer, you can reduce the amount to your liking or omit it according to your cooking habits!

