name:
Chicken, Pepper, and Pea Paella
ingredients:
Bomba rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Chicken drumsticks: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (6 pieces)
Green peppers: 1lb(450 g)
Peas: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Saffron: - 2 packets of 0.15 g
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 7tbsp(100 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
White wine: 1.1oz(30 g)
Saffron: - 1 packet of 0.15 g

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Note + 30 min. for marinating the chicken (and the time needed to prepare the vegetable broth)

instructions:
If you are fans of paella, the iconic dish of Spanish cuisine, you won't be able to resist this tasty recipe: chicken, pepper, and pea paella! A variant based on meat and vegetables, inspired by the classic Valencian Paella , characterized by the indispensable golden touch of saffron that enriches the grains with color, flavor, and aroma. Beautiful to look at and delicious to eat, chicken, pepper, and pea paella will bring a ray of sunshine to your table… even when the weather outside is bad!
Also try these other versions of paella:

To make the chicken, pepper, and pea paella, first prepare the vegetable broth and keep it warm. Cut the chicken drumsticks in half and transfer them to a bowl, then add the water and wine .
Add the oil as well . In a separate small bowl, dilute the saffron with a little warm water and stir to dissolve it .
Pour the saffron into the bowl and mix everything together . Cover with plastic wrap and let marinate in the refrigerator for 30 minutes .
After the marinating time, heat the oil in a paella pan, then place the marinated chicken drumsticks . Salt, pepper , and sear the meat over medium-high heat for 15-20 minutes, turning it on both sides; try to touch the drumsticks as little as possible so they form a tasty crust .
In the meantime, cut the peppers in half and clean out the seeds and inner filaments , then cut them horizontally into strips about 1/4 inch wide . When the chicken is well seared, add the peppers .
Add the peas and cook for another 5-6 minutes. Now pour the rice into the pan and toast it for a minute, stirring it with the other ingredients. Then add the broth all at once, keeping one ladle aside : from this moment you should no longer stir the rice.
Dissolve the saffron with the reserved ladle of broth and pour it into the pan . Continue cooking for 30 minutes over medium-low heat without stirring .
Once the cooking time is up, the liquid should have been completely absorbed, then cover the pan with a sheet of aluminum foil and let it rest for about ten minutes. After the resting time, remove the aluminum foil and stir well, making sure to scrape the bottom of the pan to mix in the rice that has stuck to the bottom . Your chicken, pepper, and pea paella is ready to be served !
Chicken, pepper, and pea paella can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can replace the peas with fava beans or green beans, or use mixed peppers instead of green ones.
The marinade will make the meat more tender and flavorful.
Bomba rice is ideal for paella because it withstands prolonged cooking and can fully absorb the flavors: if you can't find it, you can use Carnaroli or Arborio rice.
If you don't have a specific paella pan, choose a very wide pan, preferably made of iron or steel.
Saffron powder should be diluted in a little hot or warm water: this way the powder will dissolve evenly.

