name:
Milk Chocolate Cake
ingredients:
Milk Chocolate: 8oz(225 g)
Eggs: 7.8oz(220 g)- (about 5 small)
Butter: 1 ½cup(180 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Powdered sugar: to taste
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
What could be more delicious than a chocolate cake ? A milk chocolate cake, like the one we propose in this recipe! A perfect dessert to enjoy as is, for breakfast or snack, but also ideal to fill with your favorite creams or to decorate with whipped cream for a special occasion! This soft and fragrant cake is also a perfect treat to make with leftover milk chocolate from an Milk Chocolate Easter Egg or any other chocolate that's been in your pantry for a while. Sprinkle it with a shower of powdered sugar, mixed with cocoa, and enjoy it naturally for a champion's breakfast! Every slice will release all the aroma of chocolate and all the love you put into making it! Here are other delicious milk chocolate desserts to try at home:
To prepare the milk chocolate cake, first finely chop the chocolate . Transfer it to a double boiler and melt it . Alternatively, you can melt the chocolate in the microwave, heating it for a few seconds at a time and stirring often.
Transfer the softened butter to a bowl , add the sugar and a pinch of salt .
Blend with an electric mixer until you get a lightly whipped mixture . Add the eggs one at a time , waiting for the first one to be well absorbed before adding the next. Beat until well incorporated .
Now pour in the cooled melted chocolate and incorporate it with the electric mixer on low speed . Also add the all-purpose flour .
Also add the baking powder, preferably sifting it , and mix again, still on low speed . Mix just long enough to obtain a homogeneous batter .
Pour the batter into a 9-inch springform pan lined with parchment paper ; alternatively, you can butter and flour it. Level the surface with the back of a spoon and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40 minutes. Always do the toothpick test before taking the cake out of the oven .
Let the cake cool before taking it out of the mold , transfer it to a serving plate, sprinkle it with unsweetened cocoa powder and powdered sugar, and serve .
The milk chocolate cake can be stored under a glass dome for 2-3 days. Alternatively, it can be frozen once baked, either in slices or whole.
You can add 1 oz of unsweetened cocoa powder to the batter, reducing the flour by 2 oz. This will result in a more intense but less sweet cake.

