name:
Spaghetti with anchovy sauce
ingredients:
Whole wheat Spaghetti pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)- large
Colatura di alici (fishsauce): 5.3tbsp(80 g)
Garlic: 10cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 2
Lemon peel: ½
Wild fennel: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Breadcrumbs: 0.3cup(40 g)- coarsely ground
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
If you are a fan of robust and bold flavors, these spaghetti with anchovy sauce are the perfect first course to delight your adventurous palate. The sauce is made by blending garlic cloves, simmered in oil, with anchovy sauce, resulting in a creamy and rich mixture. Fresh chili peppers will add spiciness, lemon zest will provide a pleasant citrus aroma, while wild fennel will give a fresh note. Be amazed by the combinations of these spaghetti with anchovy sauce and also try other tempting variations such as spaghetti with anchovy sauce and cherry tomatoes and thick spaghetti with anchovy sauce, pistachios, and candied lemon .
To prepare spaghetti with anchovy sauce, start with the sauce: remove the core from the garlic cloves and let them cook over very low heat in the oil for 15 minutes ; let them cool completely .
In a pitcher, pour the garlic cloves with their cooking oil , then add the anchovy sauce . Blend with an immersion blender .
You should obtain a smooth sauce . In the meantime, cook the whole wheat spaghetti al dente in boiling unsalted water . Prepare the bread crumbs: in a pan, add a splash of oil and the bread crumbs .
Pepper them and toast the bread crumbs, stirring often to avoid burning them. Once golden, turn off the heat and set aside . Now cut the chili peppers in half, remove the stem and seeds .
Then finely chop them . In a pan, add a little oil, the chopped chili peppers, the wild fennel , and the zest of half a lemon .
Let it simmer for 1-2 minutes, then remove the fennel and lemon zest . Drain the spaghetti al dente and transfer them to the pan with the seasoning .
Add a ladle of hot water and finish cooking . Off the heat, add the garlic and anchovy cream , then garnish with a few sprigs of wild fennel .
Serve by garnishing the dish with more sauce and with the toasted bread crumbs . The spaghetti with anchovy sauce are ready to be served !
We recommend consuming the spaghetti with anchovy sauce immediately.
There is no need to salt the pasta water because the anchovy sauce is already very salty.

