name:
Pasta with zucchini cream and burrata
ingredients:
Strozzapreti pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)- fresh
Zucchini: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Burrata cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: 4leaves
Mint: 4leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
How many main courses can you create starting from a simple pasta and zucchini ? Just let your imagination run wild and always pair new ingredients: pancetta or Pasta with zucchini and ham , speck or sausage , shrimp or tuna... or burrata for a delicious vegetarian alternative! Pasta with zucchini cream and burrata is an easy and tasty recipe that combines the goodness of vegetables with the freshness of dairy. Half of the zucchini is blended with half of the burrata, while the rest is left whole... this way you get a sauce with different textures, a little trick that will make the pasta with zucchini cream and burrata even more inviting!
To make pasta with zucchini cream and burrata, first wash and trim the zucchini, then cut them into small triangles . In a non-stick pan, sauté the garlic clove in the oil, then add the zucchini , salt, and pepper .
Add the basil and mint leaves torn by hand and cook the zucchini over medium heat, covered, stirring occasionally. Once cooked, remove half of the zucchini and leave the others in the pan . Meanwhile, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the pasta for the indicated time .
Transfer the reserved zucchini to a blender , add half of the burrata , and blend until smooth .
Pour the cream into the pan with the remaining zucchini , add a ladle of pasta cooking water, and mix well . When the cooking time is up, drain the pasta directly into the pan .
Mix to combine the pasta with the sauce . Finish the dish with a spoonful of raw burrata and serve your pasta with zucchini cream and burrata !
Pasta with zucchini cream and burrata can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day in an airtight container.
Freezing the zucchini and burrata cream is not recommended.
You can garnish the pasta with zucchini cream and burrata with grated lemon zest for an extra touch of freshness!

