name:
Ziti with tomatoes, bacon, and stracciatella
ingredients:
Ziti pasta: 6.3oz(180 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 10.6oz(300 g)- red and yellow
Smoked pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Stracciatella cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Unsalted pistachios: 2tbsp(25 g)- peeled
Breadcrumbs: 1spoonful
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
Ziti with tomatoes, bacon, and stracciatella is a first course that encapsulates the most tantalizing Mediterranean flavors: sweet cherry tomatoes sautéed in a pan, crispy bacon, fresh stracciatella, and to finish, a surprising savory pistachio crumble that will envelop these typical spaghettoni with flavor. Let yourself be tempted by this rich and tasty pasta and come discover other delicious recipes we have in store for you:
To make ziti with cherry tomatoes, bacon, and stracciatella, remove the rind from the bacon and then cut it into strips . Wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half. Heat a crushed garlic clove in a pan with oil, add the bacon and let it brown for a moment . Add the cherry tomatoes .
Season with a few basil leaves , salt, and pepper and cook for 7 minutes, then remove the garlic . Place a pot filled with salted water on the stove and bring to a boil, it will be used to cook the ziti. Prepare the pistachio crumble: chop the pistachios in a mixer .
Pour a tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil, a tablespoon of breadcrumbs, and the chopped pistachios into a pan , salt and toast for 2-3 minutes over moderate heat. Break the ziti into three parts and cook them al dente in plenty of salted water .
Set aside a bit of the cooking water . Drain the ziti and pour them into the pan with the sauce , toss them, and adjust the creaminess with a few tablespoons of the pasta cooking water. Plate with the stracciatella and the pistachio crumble .
We recommend consuming the ziti with cherry tomatoes, bacon, and stracciatella immediately. You can prepare the sauce and pistachio crumble in advance.
We recommend draining the stracciatella carefully, otherwise it will release water in the dish.

