name:
Pasta with Mussels and Breadcrumbs
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 14oz(400 g)
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- cleaned
Bread: 2.1oz(60 g)- crumb
Garlic: 2cloves
Parsley: 1tuft
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you're crazy about Mussels Marinara and always looking for new ways to cook them, mussel and breadcrumb pasta is definitely the main course for you. Here you will find an explosion of aromas and scents from simple goodness that will conquer you at the first bite. This recipe is inspired by the timeless spaghetti with mussels but with a twist: the toasted breadcrumbs will give a pleasant crunchy texture, thus enriching the flavor and character of this iconic dish!
Come and discover other delicious recipes with mussels:
To prepare pasta with mussels and breadcrumbs, heat a splash of extra virgin olive oil in a saucepan , add a clove of garlic and some already stripped parsley stems . Let everything heat up.
When the oil just starts to sizzle, add the cleaned mussels and let them open over high heat with the lid on . When the mussels are open, separate them from the cooking liquid and strain the latter to remove any impurities and sand .
Remove the meat from three quarters of the mussels and leave the rest whole . Heat a splash of extra virgin olive oil in another pan, then add the coarsely chopped breadcrumbs and toast until golden and crispy, about 2-3 minutes over medium-low heat .
Bring a pot full of water to a boil, then add coarse salt and the pasta which should cook for about three quarters of the time indicated on the package. Chop a clove of garlic and the parsley leaves .
In the pan where you cooked the mussels, heat a little more extra virgin olive oil, add the chopped garlic and parsley and wait for the oil to start sizzling, then add about 2-3 ladles of the water released by the mussels . Drain the pasta into the pan with the mussel liquid and finish cooking .
Add the shelled mussels and the whole ones, mix everything together, and serve adding the crispy breadcrumbs to individual dishes . The mussel and breadcrumb pasta is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the mussel and breadcrumb pasta immediately.
To clean the mussels at best, follow our guide: how to clean mussels .

