name:
Burger buns (hamburger buns)
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Water: 3.4tbsp(50 g)- at room temperature
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Manitoba flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)- at room temperature
Acacia honey: 1tsp(15 g)
Fine salt: 1tbsp(15 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(25 g)- soft
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (1 medium)
Egg yolks: 1tbsp(15 g)- (about 1)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: 2tbsp(30 g)
Sesame seeds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + rising times (about 5 h)

instructions:
What would hamburgers be without the bun that encloses them? In this recipe, we show you how to make burger buns at home, soft sweet buns decorated on the surface with sesame seeds that identify the hamburger, as it is known everywhere. Originally, the most famous meat patty in the world was accompanied by two toasted slices of rye bread, the patty melt , still found in old American diners today, and the origin of the sweet soft bun, the bun , is uncertain. What we do know for sure is that this bread has become an essential ingredient in the real hamburger, in all fast food places and beyond! But making it at home is a whole different story; these buns will truly give you great satisfaction!
In addition to the classic hamburger, the burger bun is perfect for filling with pulled pork or pulled chicken for an authentic made in USA sandwich or with veggie versions like zucchini burger! You can also use them to prepare the tomino burger or the Egg burger ! If you are looking for other buns to fill, try these recipes:

To prepare the burger buns, start with the biga. Pour the water into a bowl, add the brewer's yeast, and mix to dissolve it . Pour the obtained mixture into another bowl where you have already placed the flour. Knead quickly first with a fork and then with your hands .
You should obtain a crumbly mixture, not well amalgamated . Cover with plastic wrap and let it mature for 2 hours at room temperature , or until it has doubled in volume .
In the stand mixer bowl, pour the two flours , add the matured biga , and the honey .
Also add the milk , then mount the hook and start working the ingredients .
Then add the egg and, after it has been absorbed, also the yolk . Continue working the ingredients with the hook until you obtain a well-cohesive and smooth dough.
At this point, slowly pour in the oil, add the salt , and wait for both ingredients to be well absorbed before adding the butter, one piece at a time .
Work the dough until the butter is completely absorbed until it is soft, smooth, and well cohesive . Then transfer it to a surface and form a sphere with the dough .
Transfer to a bowl , cover with a plate , or with plastic wrap, and let rise for 2 hours at room temperature, or until it doubles in volume .
After the rising time, transfer the dough to the work surface and divide it into pieces weighing 3.9 oz each , you should get 8 .
Now take the first piece and spread it on the surface . Bring the two side edges towards the center and then the other edges too .
Turn the dough over and shape it with your hand into a well-firm ball . Repeat the same operation and as you go, transfer the obtained buns onto a baking tray lined with parchment paper, spacing them apart .
Cover with a second baking sheet and let rise for another 30 minutes. Then beat the yolk with the milk and use it to brush the buns .
Sprinkle with white sesame seeds and bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for 25-30 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool slightly before serving your burger buns !
Burger buns can be stored in a bag for 1 day.
Alternatively, you can freeze them after baking and letting them cool completely.
Decorate the burger buns with a mix of sesame and poppy seeds!

