name:
Mille-feuille of chiacchiere with cream and pears
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Sugar: ⅓cup(70 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- soft
Eggs: 3
Egg yolks: 1
Grappa: 1.1oz(30 g)
Vanilla extract: 2tsp(10 g)
Baking powder: 1 ¼tsp(6 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Abate Fetel pears: 5.3oz(150 g)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ½cup(360 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Egg yolks: 6
Cornstarch: 6.3tbsp(50 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.125oz(4 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Note + 30 min. of dough resting

instructions:
With the mille-feuille of chiacchiere with cream and pears, we have reinvented one of the most beloved classic desserts: the mille-feuille . In our creative version, we abandon the puff pastry and embrace chiacchiere , those crunchy and light sweets typical of Carnival. The chiacchiere, with their fragrance and the delicate touch of powdered sugar, perfectly match the idea of mille-feuille, adding a new dimension of flavor and texture. The fragrant vanilla cream is enriched with fresh pear pieces, diced, for a fruity and juicy touch. Making homemade carnival desserts is easy, convenient, and will make the whole family happy... try the mille-feuille of chiacchiere with cream and pears, and you'll see for yourself!
To prepare the mille-feuille of chiacchiere with cream and pears, pour the flour, baking powder, and sugar into a bowl. Also, add a pinch of salt , the 3 eggs along with the yolk , and the grappa .
Start mixing with a fork , then knead by hand for a few minutes . Put the softened butter in a bowl and add the vanilla extract .
Crush the butter with a fork to make it creamy , then add it to the dough and work it again in the bowl .
When the mixture begins to take shape, transfer it to a surface and knead for about ten minutes until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough. It should be firm but malleable . If it's too hard, add 5-10 ml of water. Wrap it with plastic wrap and let it rest for 30 minutes at room temperature .
Turn to the cream: soak the gelatin in cold water . Beat the yolks with the vanilla extract and sugar .
Add the cornstarch as well . Mix well with a whisk until you achieve a homogeneous consistency. Heat the milk but do not bring it to a boil .
Once the milk is almost boiling, slowly pour it into the bowl with the egg mixture, blending with the whisk . Then return everything to the heat and let it thicken, stirring continuously with the whisk .
When the cream has reached the right consistency , wait a couple of minutes, then, still stirring, transfer the cream to a baking dish. Add the gelatin previously soaked in cold water and well-drained and mix vigorously to dissolve it completely .
Cover with plastic wrap and let cool in the refrigerator. Peel the pear and cut the flesh into cubes .
Pour the very cold cream into a bowl and semi-whip it with an electric whisk . Soften the pastry cream in a bowl with the whisk to remove any lumps .
Incorporate the whipped cream into the pastry cream in three additions, giving it a few quick, decisive stirs , then add the diced pear . Your pear diplomat cream is ready , transfer it into a pastry bag with a 0.4-inch smooth nozzle.
Take a portion of dough and roll it out with a pasta machine until you get a thickness of 1/16 inch .
Let the dough sheet dry slightly and then cut out rectangles measuring 2x4 inches with a crimped wheel . Prick them with a fork so that they don't puff up while frying, but stay flat. Fry in hot oil at about 300°F-320°F .
When they are golden, drain them with a slotted spoon and transfer them to absorbent paper. Let them cool and sprinkle with plenty of powdered sugar .
Assemble the mille-feuille by placing a chiacchiera at the base, a generous layer of cream , another chiacchiera, and another layer of cream; finish with the last chiacchiera and powdered sugar on top. Your mille-feuille of chiacchiere with cream and pears is ready to be served !
Once filled, the mille-feuille of chiacchiere will keep its crispness for a few hours.
You can prepare the chiacchiere and the cream in advance and assemble the dessert just before serving.
As an alternative to pears, you can use kiwis or berries.

