name:
Tagliatelle with zucchini blossoms
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Eggs: 2
Zucchini flowers: 3.5oz(100 g)
Zucchini: 2
Zucchini: 6- with zucchini flowers
Saffron: tsp(0.15 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 8tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + resting time of the dough in the refrigerator (30 minutes)

instructions:
Tagliatelle with zucchini blossoms is a first course dish that embodies the essence of Italian cuisine: simplicity, quality, and freshness of ingredients, for an authentic flavor. The preparation of this dish not only highlights the fruits of the spring season but also celebrates the art of homemade pasta. The tagliatelle are the perfect base for this dish, their rough texture holds the sauce, so every bite is rich in flavor. The zucchini blossoms are the heart of this dish, adding a splash of color, making the dish visually appealing as well as delicious. The zucchini, cut into julienne strips, offer a crunchy texture that pleasantly contrasts with the softness of the tagliatelle. Thyme completes the dish with its aromatic notes.
If you are looking for more dishes with zucchini blossoms, here is a small selection:
To prepare the tagliatelle with zucchini blossoms, first, on a work surface, place the flour in a fountain shape and pour the eggs in the center . Knead until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, separate the zucchini from the blossoms , remove the pistil from the blossoms , and cut the zucchini into julienne strips .
In a pan, drizzle some olive oil, add the garlic and zucchini , season with salt and pepper , and sauté for 2-3 minutes. Then add the zucchini blossoms .
Add the thyme , saffron , a ladle of water , and cook for another 2-3 minutes.
Take the dough and roll it out with a rolling pin until you have a sheet about 1-2 mm thick. Cut the sheet in half and from the edges, roll towards the center . Do this procedure for each sheet.
Cut the rolls into strips about 5 mm wide . Drop the tagliatelle into plenty of salted boiling water . Once cooked, drain them, transfer them to the pan, and sauté for a few minutes .
Turn off the heat, add the butter , grated Parmesan cheese , and stir until creamy .
Plate the dish and complete with fresh thyme . The tagliatelle with zucchini blossoms are ready to be enjoyed .
We recommend consuming the tagliatelle with zucchini blossoms immediately. If you have leftovers, you can store them in the fridge for a couple of days.
You can freeze the tagliatelle when uncooked. For freezing, place the pasta nests well spaced on a tray and then put them in the freezer to harden for a couple of hours. Once hardened, place them in freezer bags and store them again in the freezer. When you need to use them, boil them directly from frozen in boiling water and continue as per the recipe.
If you want to enrich the dish, you can add sautéed shrimp, crispy bacon, or sautéed champignon or porcini mushrooms. Besides thyme, you can experiment with other aromatic herbs like basil, marjoram, or mint. Each herb will give the dish a unique character.

