name:
Dark chocolate mousse cake on sablé base
ingredients:
Salted butter: 5.3oz(150 g)
Brown sugar: ½cup(120 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: 0.8tsp(5 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(175 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 6tbsp(30 g)
Baking soda: 1tsp(5 g)
Dark chocolate 70%: 10.6oz(300 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2 ½cups(600 g)- semi-whipped
Chocolate sprinkles: to taste
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note 3 hours of rest

instructions:
To prepare the dark chocolate mousse cake on sable base, start with the base: in a bowl, pour the salted butter, brown sugar , granulated sugar , vanilla bean seeds, and salt .
Knead to form a dough and then add the flour, unsweetened cocoa powder , and baking soda .
Add the chocolate flakes and knead , gather the ingredients and transfer them to a work surface .
Form a dough, wrap it in plastic wrap , and place it in the fridge for 1 hour. Take the base and roll it out with a rolling pin to a thickness of about 1/8 inch , cut it with a 9-inch ring .
Transfer the disc to a baking tray lined with parchment paper , bake in a static oven preheated to 329°F for 20 minutes . Prepare the mousse: melt the dark chocolate in a double boiler .
When it has reached a temperature of 113°F , pour in the semi-whipped cream all at once, mix first with the whisk and then with the spatula .
Place the ring back on the sable base, so that the cake maintains its shape, then pour the mousse , distribute it evenly , then level it with the spatula . Transfer to the fridge for two hours.
Retrieve the set cake, remove the ring and cover it laterally with chocolate flakes . Dust the surface with cocoa powder and your dark chocolate mousse cake on sable base is ready to be enjoyed .
The dark chocolate mousse cake on sable base can be stored in the fridge for 2 days. We do not recommend freezing.
With the sable scraps, you can make delicious little cookies.

