name:
Pistachio Rice Arancini
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Shallot: 1.75oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Vegetable broth: 3.3cups(800 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Saffron: 1bag
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.3oz(65 g)
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)
Type 00 flour: 2tbsp(15 g)
Whole milk: 5.1oz(150 g)
Nutmeg: to taste- to grate
Ground pistachio: ⅛cup(30 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 2oz(55 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(130 g)
Water: ¾cup(195 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Peanut seed oil: 3.3cups(800 g)
Pistachio flour: 0.7tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 13 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time for the rice and béchamel

instructions:
Arancini or arancine? However you want to call them, these stuffed rice balls remain the quintessential Sicilian street food! Many presume that the best arancini are enjoyed on the ferry to Sicily, but if you can't make the trip, try making these pistachio rice arancini at home, a variant of the classic ragù-filled arancini ! If you've already tried the white ragù variant , the spinach arancini , and the baked arancini ... you are ready to taste this version with one of the most famous and precious Sicilian products: pistachio. Together with creamy béchamel sauce and flavorful melting caciocavallo, you'll achieve a rich and tasty filling! But also focus on the exterior of the pistachio arancini: follow the recipe step by step to achieve a golden and crispy coating to pass the 100% quality control by your Sicilian friends!
To prepare the pistachio rice arancini, first prepare the vegetable broth needed for the risotto (you'll need about 50 g to later dissolve the saffron). Once ready, strain it, keep it warm, and start preparing the sauté. Finely chop the shallot and let it sauté over low heat with a drizzle of oil for 5-6 minutes. When it becomes wilted and golden, add the rice and toast it for a few minutes, stirring often, until it changes color.
At this point, deglaze with the white wine , let it evaporate completely, and cook the rice by gradually adding a ladle of hot broth and continuing to stir from time to time . It will take about 18-20 minutes, depending on the cooking times indicated on the package. Finally, season with salt and pepper.
When the rice is cooked, pour the saffron into a small bowl and add about 50 g of broth ; stir until the saffron is dissolved, then pour it into the risotto with the heat still on low. Stir until you get a uniform color,
then add the Grana cheese and stir once more to incorporate it well. At this point, turn off the heat and transfer the risotto to a tray and spread it out evenly; cover with plastic wrap and let it cool completely, first at room temperature and then in the refrigerator.
In the meantime, prepare the béchamel . Pour the milk into a saucepan, add a pinch of salt, grate some nutmeg , and bring the milk to just below boiling. In another pan, melt the butter and sprinkle in the flour , stirring quickly and continuously. Then incorporate the hot milk
and continue stirring until you get a smooth and sufficiently thick cream . Pour it into a bowl , cover with plastic wrap in contact , and let it cool completely.
When both the rice and the béchamel are well chilled, start forming the arancini. First, cut the caciocavallo into rather small cubes ; then take about 75 g of rice with your hands and spread it in your palm . Place a bit of béchamel in the center
then add some pistachio crumbs and a few cubes of caciocavallo . Close the arancino, ensuring that the filling doesn't spill out, and press gently with your hands to form a spherical shape .
As you go, place the arancini on a tray lined with parchment paper ; with these ingredients, you'll get 12. Once the rice is used up, prepare the batter: sift the flour in a bowl and gradually add the water, stirring continuously with a whisk , lightly salt, and continue stirring until you get a smooth batter without lumps .
Pour the oil into a saucepan and heat it to about 340°F; use a kitchen thermometer to measure the correct oil temperature, only this way can you ensure perfectly golden and cooked arancini. Dip each arancino into the batter, making sure it is completely covered , then roll it in breadcrumbs . Only when the oil has reached the correct temperature can you fry your arancini; we recommend dipping only a few at a time to avoid lowering the temperature too much.
When your arancini are golden brown, use a slotted spoon to remove them from the oil , place them on a tray lined with kitchen paper , which will absorb any excess oil, and sprinkle with pistachio flour . Continue in this way until you've fried all the pistachio rice arancini and enjoy them while they're still hot!
You can store the rice arancini in the refrigerator for a couple of days without frying them. They can be frozen if you used all fresh ingredients and fried as needed directly from frozen. Once fried, we recommend enjoying them immediately!
Pressed for time? Prepare the rice and béchamel the day before, and it will only take a few minutes to form the arancini! If you can't find pistachio flour, you can blend the pistachio crumbs! Instead of caciocavallo, use the string cheese you love most!

