name:
Tagliatelle with broccoli, tuna, and bottarga
ingredients:
Egg Tagliatelle pasta: 1.1lbs(480 g)
Tuna: 12.4oz(350 g)
Broccoli: 7cups(630 g)
Mullet Bottarga: 1.75oz(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Lemon peel: 1- (to grate)
Pine nuts: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The mullet bottarga is a prized ingredient that gives first courses a delicate sea fragrance… instead of the classic spaghetti with bottarga , we propose tasting it in an innovative way: tagliatelle with broccoli, tuna, and bottarga! A creamy pasta with broccoli with an extra twist from the use of fresh tuna in two ways, cooked and raw. Pine nuts add a crunchy note, while lemon zest refreshes the palate in a whirl of flavors and textures!
If you enjoyed the tagliatelle with broccoli, tuna, and bottarga, also try these tasty recipes:

To prepare the tagliatelle with broccoli, tuna, and bottarga, first separate the heart of the fillet from the more fibrous part . The tender part will be used for the tartare, so first cut it into strips and then into cubes ; transfer it to a bowl and set aside. The fibrous part will be sautéed, so cut it more finely .
Bring a pot of salted water to a boil and blanch the broccoli florets for 5 minutes . Meanwhile, in a pan, let the oil infuse with chopped chili pepper and a clove of garlic , then add the tuna .
Briefly sear the tuna over medium heat, stirring continuously; don't worry if it tends to stick to the bottom . After a few minutes, turn off the heat and remove the garlic, then add fragrance with grated lemon zest . At this point, drain the broccoli and transfer them to the pan, taking care to leave the cooking water on the heat .
Turn the heat back on to medium, add a ladle of the broccoli's cooking water , and mix well to deglaze the bottom . Salt moderately .
Meanwhile, cook the tagliatelle in the broccoli water , then transfer them to the pan with the sauce . Add a little cooking water and toss everything for a couple of minutes.
Toss with a drizzle of oil and mix well . Finally, season the tartare with a pinch of salt and oil .
You can plate: place a nest of tagliatelle on each plate and top with a spoonful of sauce , some pine nuts , and the tuna tartare .
Finally, grate the bottarga and lemon zest . Your tagliatelle with broccoli, tuna, and bottarga are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the tagliatelle with broccoli, tuna, and bottarga immediately.
Don't throw away the broccoli stems: you can use them to make a good vegetable broth or turn them into a delicious Bruschetta with Broccoli Cream !

