name:
Tagliatelle with spring onions and sausage
ingredients:
Sausage: 7.1oz(200 g)
Egg Tagliatelle pasta: 0.7lb(320 g)
Fresh scallion: 8.8oz(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Tomato paste: ½tbsp(10 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)
Meat broth: 3mestoli
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Fast, flavorful, and simple: the perfect pasta recipe should meet these few requirements! It's no coincidence that the most loved pastas are quick ones like carbonara or garlic, oil, and chili pepper . Inspired by these timeless classics, we've created a delicious and tasty first course: tagliatelle with spring onions and sausage. When it comes to tagliatelle , we know the best pairing is with mushrooms . But a dish with a rustic and tantalizing flavor like this is perfect as a last-minute dinner solution! All that's left is to try this tasty dish of tagliatelle with spring onions and sausage. Also try this rustic variant: pappardelle with sausage and leeks !
To make the tagliatelle with spring onions and sausage, make sure you have the meat broth ready (you will need 3 ladles); then remove the outer leaves and the greener part of the spring onions , then trim and slice them into rounds . Score the sausage casing lengthwise
And strip it from the meat . Heat olive oil in a pan , then add the spring onions , salt, pepper, and let them brown for a few minutes to soften them.
Add the slightly crumbled sausage , sauté for a couple of minutes and add some hot meat broth . Add the tomato paste and stir to incorporate it well.
Add a couple more ladles of broth and cook for about 10 minutes. In the meantime, bring salted water to a boil for cooking the tagliatelle. Cook the tagliatelle until al dente , then drain and toss it directly in the pan .
Season with grated cheese and stir one last time . Serve the tagliatelle with spring onions and sausage hot .
Consume the tagliatelle with spring onions and sausage immediately.
As an alternative to tomato paste, you can use fresh cherry tomatoes, adjusting the amount of broth based on the sauce's consistency.
You can alternatively use vegetable broth, which will be just slightly less flavorful!

