name:
Arancini with meat and béchamel
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 5 ½cups(1 kg)
Water: 5 ¼cups(1250 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 7oz(200 g)- to grate
Butter: 10tbsp(140 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.1tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: 5tsp(30 g)
Saffron: 3bags
Beef: 1.1lbs(500 g)- muscle
Yellow onions: 0.67cup(100 g)
Carrots: 1.75oz(50 g)
Celery: 1.75oz(50 g)
Peas: ½cup(60 g)
Water: ¾cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: 1.7tsp(10 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 2.1oz(60 g)
Pizza mozzarella cheese: 2oz(60 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Cornstarch: 4 ½tbsp(35 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Egg whites: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 2 h
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the resting and cooling times

instructions:
Arancini with meat and béchamel are a tomato-free variant of the classic rice arancini , a pride of Sicilian cuisine and always a subject of debate regarding the masculine or feminine gender of their name. In this recipe, we don't dwell on whether it's called arancino or arancina, but we rely on the expertise of Michelin-starred chef Pino Cuttaia to make them perfectly! Starting from the preparation of the meat filling, enriched with peas, ham, mozzarella, and a special béchamel, to the cooking of saffron rice, we will go through all the steps together to shape these irresistible fried delights with a crunchy and golden crust. Perfect both as a appetizer or as a main dish, the arancini with meat and béchamel will make your mouth water just by looking at them!
Try these versions of rice arancini too:

To make the arancini with meat and béchamel, first prepare the sauté for cooking the meat: clean and roughly chop the onions , the carrots , and the celery .
Transfer the vegetables into a pressure cooker, then pour in the oil and place the beef muscle inside . Put the pot on the heat and let it stew for a few minutes .
At this point, add the salt and the water , close with the lid, and cook for 30-40 minutes from the whistle .
After the cooking time, take the piece of meat and place it on a cutting board to cool. Meanwhile, blend the vegetables and the cooking base with an immersion blender . Cut the meat into cubes .
Bring the blended cooking base back to a boil, add the peas and blanch them briefly. Remove the pot from the heat and add the meat , then mix well . Set aside the meat and let it cool.
Move on to the béchamel: pour the cornstarch and part of the milk into a saucepan , then mix well with a hand whisk and flavor with nutmeg .
Meanwhile, bring the remaining milk to a boil in a separate saucepan . Add the hot milk to the cornstarch mixture, mixing everything with the whisk , then thicken the béchamel on the heat, continuing to stir to avoid lumps .
Remove the saucepan from the heat and add the meat to the still-hot béchamel , then mix and pour everything into a baking dish. Now cut the cooked ham into cubes .
Dice the mozzarella as well . Add the ham and mozzarella to the filling and mix well . Cover with cling film in contact and let it cool in the refrigerator.
Finally, focus on the rice: in a narrow-diameter pot, pour the water, saffron , salt , and oil .
Bring to a boil, then add the rice and cook for 7 minutes . After this time, the rice will have absorbed the water, so turn off the heat and stir in the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP cheese .
Add the butter and mix well . Transfer the risotto to a baking dish, cover with cling film in contact, and let it rest for about ten minutes; in this way, it will finish cooking .
When the risotto is still warm, take portions of about 80g , form them into balls, and place them on a tray . Create a hollow by pressing with your thumb in the center of the rice ball .
Take about 40g of filling and insert it into the hollow , then close with the rice, giving the arancino an oval shape . Continue this way to form all the arancini; with these quantities, you will get about 20 pieces.
At this point, proceed with the double breading: first with breadcrumbs , then with the egg white (which you have previously beaten with a fork) , and finally again with breadcrumbs .
You are ready to fry: bring the seed oil to a temperature of 320°F, then immerse a few pieces at a time and fry for 7 minutes. When they are evenly golden, drain the arancini and place them on straw paper. Enjoy the arancini with meat and béchamel while they are still hot !
Cooked arancini with meat and béchamel can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
If you used all fresh ingredients, you can freeze them before cooking and cook them directly from frozen: in this case, it is preferable to make them a little smaller to ensure even cooking.
The béchamel does not contain butter because the fat part is already inside the meat. The use of cornstarch instead of flour, moreover, allows for a more gelatinous consistency.
It is preferable to shape the rice while it is still hot, otherwise, it tends to crumble.

