name:
Arancini with zucchini
ingredients:
Originario rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Baby Zucchini (summer squash): 3cups(400 g)
Zucchini flowers: 3.5oz(100 g)- zucchini
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)- smoked
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3oz(80 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)- cold
Shallot: 1
Thyme: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Vegetable broth: 8 ½cups(1.5 l)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Water: 0.7cup(175 g)- cold
Breadcrumbs: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Note + the resting time for the rice, the arancini, and the draining of the smoked mozzarella

instructions:
Whether you've been to Sicily or not, you surely know about arancini or arancine (and also the debate about the gender of these small rice balls ). Today, however, we're making a variation on the theme and offering you arancini with zucchini. These wonderful rice balls with their characteristic teardrop shape and melty filling are exquisite appetizers that you absolutely must offer to your guests! The summer seasoning of zucchini and zucchini blossoms will bring a fresh breath of innovation and original taste to your tables. Everything you need to know is told in the recipe for arancini with zucchini, are you ready to discover our version? Let's get started!
Want to discover all versions of arancini, including sweet ones? Take a look here:
To prepare the arancini with zucchini, start by placing a pot with vegetable broth on the heat, which will be used for cooking the rice. Meanwhile, detach the flowers from the zucchini and then remove the ends from the zucchini , then slice them into 1/8 inch thick rounds . Move on to the zucchini flowers and trim them .
and remove the pistils . Finally, finely chop the shallot with a knife . Move to the stove, pour a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil into a saucepan, add the shallot and let it sauté for a couple of minutes .
Add the zucchini rounds and cook over high heat for a couple of minutes. Next, pour in the rice , toast it for 2-3 minutes, then add a pinch of salt; stir occasionally .
Now start cooking the rice by pouring in the hot broth until the ingredients are covered . Continue cooking, adding more broth occasionally; halfway through, add the thyme leaves . Remember that the risotto should be very dry at the end to make forming the arancini easier. When done, turn off the heat, add the zucchini flowers ,
the grated cheese, butter, and pepper . Stir well and then transfer the risotto to a tray .
Cover with plastic wrap and transfer to the refrigerator to firm up for at least 1 hour. Meanwhile, cut the smoked mozzarella into 3/4 inch pieces and place them on absorbent paper to remove excess moisture . When the risotto is well chilled and firm, form the arancini: take a 5 oz portion and make a little space in the middle with your fingers ,
place 2 pieces of smoked mozzarella inside and close, shaping your arancino into a teardrop (make sure the melty cheese is well covered by the rice) . Place the first arancino on a tray and continue like this until you have 8 pieces, then refrigerate them for 30 minutes .
Make the batter by pouring the flour and water into a large bowl , mix with a whisk to obtain a very liquid and smooth batter . Then dip all the arancini into the batter, using a fork to lift and drain the excess ,
then transfer to a bowl with bread crumbs . After ensuring the bread crumbs adhere well, place them on a tray and continue breading all the arancini . Heat the seed oil to 340°F and fry the arancini one to two pieces at a time .
They will be golden in about 3 minutes, then drain the first on absorbent paper and proceed with cooking all the pieces . Here are the arancini with zucchini, enjoy them piping hot !
The arancini with zucchini can be stored cooked in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
You can prepare the rice in advance, even the day before, and keep it in the fridge overnight.
If you used fresh ingredients, you can freeze the arancini raw and fry them from frozen.
If you want to add a touch of aroma, flavor, and color, do as in the original version of arancini: add some saffron to the risotto!
If you haven't found zucchini flowers attached to the zucchini, you can use 3.5 oz of zucchini blossoms.

