name:
Baked Rice Arancini
ingredients:
Vialone nano rice: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Saffron threads: to taste
Water: 4 ¼cups(1.2 l)
Caciocavallo cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- aged (for grating)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Pork: 3.5oz(100 g)- ground
Tomato purée: ¾cup(200 g)
Peas: ½cup(80 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Yellow onions: ½
Red wine: 1.8oz(50 g)
Butter: 1 ¾tbsp(25 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 6
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time for the rice (at least 2 h) and the arancini (20 min.)

instructions:
Many of you have asked for it, and finally, we have delighted you with an irresistible version of the classic Sicilian rice arancini , lighter but equally tasty: baked rice arancini! Perfect for those who don't like frying, baked rice arancini are traditionally stuffed with pea ragù and caciocavallo cheese, but you're welcome to experiment with different fillings, like spinach arancini , pistachio arancini , or white ragù arancini . Even the rice preparation does not differ from the original recipe; what changes is the breading, allowing you to achieve an excellent result even with oven cooking. Try making baked rice arancini yourself and let us know if your expectations were met!
To make baked rice arancini, first prepare the rice: bring the water to a boil and add salt, then pour in the rice and boil it for about 15 minutes (this way, the water will be completely absorbed by the rice, and the starch left in the pot will make it dry and compact). Meanwhile, dissolve the saffron in a ladle of hot water . When the rice is cooked, pour in the saffron liquid and mix well.
Add the butter and grated aged caciocavallo cheese , and mix again to blend well. Transfer the rice to a large, shallow tray and spread it evenly with the back of a spoon .
Cover the rice with parchment paper and let it cool at room temperature for at least 2 hours . In the meantime, you can work on the ragù: peel and thinly slice the onion , then melt the butter in a pan with 2 tablespoons of oil, add the onion , and let it sauté over low heat.
At this point, add the ground meat , increase the heat, and let it brown briefly, then deglaze with the red wine . Pour in the tomato sauce , adjust salt and pepper, cover with a lid, and simmer for at least 20 minutes.
Halfway through cooking, add the peas . If necessary, you can add a little water during cooking, keeping in mind that the ragù should be thick rather than liquid at the end . Meanwhile, cut the fresh caciocavallo cheese into cubes .
When the rice has completely cooled, you can proceed to form the arancini: prepare a bowl of water to moisten your hands so you can handle the rice more easily. Place a couple of tablespoons of rice (about 4 oz) in the palm of your hand and press it in the center to create a hollow , then fill it with a teaspoon of ragù and a few cubes of caciocavallo .
Mold the rice to cover the filling and form a ball . Continue this way for all the arancini, then move on to breading: pour the eggs and breadcrumbs into 2 separate bowls and dip each first in the egg and then in the breadcrumbs , repeating the operation twice.
Place the breaded arancini on a baking sheet covered with parchment paper and let them rest in the refrigerator for about 20 minutes. Then, drizzle with a little oil and bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for about 30 minutes. Once cooked , serve your baked rice arancini hot !
Baked rice arancini can be stored in the refrigerator for about 2 days. If you prefer, you can prepare the rice in advance and let it cool in the fridge overnight.
You can freeze them raw after breading and bake them directly from frozen; in this case, we recommend making them smaller.
You can replace the classic ragù filling with ham and mozzarella or spinach, for example!

