name:
Spinach Arancini
ingredients:
Roma rice: 1 ¾cup(350 g)
Saffron: 0.018tsp(0.125 g)- (1 sachet)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)- to grate
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste- to grease the tray
Spinach: 16.7cups(500 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 4.25oz(120 g)- sliced
Water: 0.8cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 2.8oz(80 g)
Water: ½cup(110 g)
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Vegetable oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + rice cooling time (at least 2 hours)

instructions:
How can anyone resist the goodness of Sicilian street food? Panelle , rizzuole, and ravazzate fill the counters of the delis, but it is the rice arancini that immediately catch the attention of hungry tourists, in every shape and filling! From the traditional arancini with ragù to the more unusual ones, each of these golden treasures hides a world waiting to be savored... today we offer you another succulent variant that we bet you won't be able to resist: spinach arancini. Once bitten, you'll discover a tasty filling enriched with caciocavallo and cooked ham, a winning combination with a guaranteed gooey effect! Impress your friends with the best dishes of Sicilian cuisine: we bet the spinach arancini will be the highlight of the evening!
Also try these arancini variants:

To make spinach arancini, start by preparing the rice: pour the rice into a large pot, add 1 liter of water and salt and cook it for about 25 minutes: the rice should be well-dried at the end .
Turn off the heat and add the saffron dissolved in a small amount of the rice cooking water , mix well , then add the Parmesan cheese .
Add the butter and stir again to mix everything well. Transfer the rice to an oil-greased tray and spread it evenly to cool, then cover with plastic wrap in contact and let it cool in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours.
In the meantime, prepare the ingredients for the filling: cut the caciocavallo into very small cubes and finely chop the cooked ham . Rinse the spinach well and pour them into a large pot, salt, and add about 7 fl oz of water .
Cover with a lid and cook on low heat until wilted: it will take about 5-7 minutes . Drain the spinach to remove excess water and let them cool.
Once the spinach has cooled, chop them finely . Now prepare the batter: in a bowl, mix water with the flour and stir well with a whisk to avoid lumps until you get a homogeneous mixture .
When the rice has cooled properly, you can start making the arancini: to help yourself, keep a bowl full of water nearby to moisten your hands if necessary . Take about 6-7 oz of rice at a time, flatten it on the palm of your hand and form a sort of hollow , then add a tablespoon of caciocavallo cubes ,
a tablespoon of chopped ham , and a tablespoon of spinach . Shape the rice into a sphere, pushing the filling inside to ensure it doesn't spill out . Once all the arancini are formed, pour the seed oil into a saucepan and bring it to a temperature of 284°F.
Dip one arancino at a time in the batter , then coat them with breadcrumbs and fry them in hot oil for about 5-7 minutes each . It is not advisable to fry more than one piece at a time to prevent the oil temperature from dropping.
When the arancini are golden and crispy, drain them and place them on a sheet of frying paper or absorbent paper to remove excess oil . Your spinach arancini are ready to be enjoyed while still hot !
We recommend consuming the spinach arancini immediately; alternatively, they can be stored in the refrigerator for about 2 days. You can freeze arancini already coated with batter and breadcrumbs.
In some areas of Sicily, it is common to add bechamel sauce to the filling... try this variant for an even more gooey and creamy result! You can substitute the cooked ham with mortadella, or omit it for a delicious vegetarian version.

