name:
Easy stewed cod
ingredients:
Cod fillet: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Potatoes: 2
White onions: 1
Garlic: 2cloves
White wine: ½cup(100 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Parsley: to taste- minced
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Stewed cod is a simple and tasty second course, perfect for those who love homemade flavors. The chunks of cod are immersed in a delicious tomato and onion-based sauce enriched with potatoes, while the chopped parsley provides a fresh and aromatic touch. It is a simple and versatile preparation that requires few ingredients and poses no particular difficulties but delivers a result with an intense and genuine flavor. The slow cooking of the stewed cod allows the ingredients to blend, creating a thick sauce that envelops the fish and potatoes, perfect for scooping up with bread!
If you're looking for more recipes with cod, don't miss:

To prepare the stewed cod, first peel the potatoes and cut them into cubes of about 1 inch . Clean and finely slice the onion .
Cut the chili pepper in half . In a pan, heat the oil together with the crushed unpeeled garlic, the chili pepper , and the parsley stems .
Add the onions to the pan and sauté for a few minutes until the onions become translucent. Then add the potatoes and brown for a few minutes, stirring often. Deglaze with white wine and let all the alcohol evaporate, stirring occasionally.
Now add the crushed peeled tomatoes , stir and season with salt and pepper . Cover with a lid and cook for 30 minutes over medium heat, stirring occasionally, or until the potatoes are tender.
Meanwhile, cut the cod fillets into smaller pieces , removing any bones. After 30 minutes, remove the parsley stems and garlic from the pan , then place the cod .
Cover again with a lid and cook for another 20 minutes or until the fish is cooked. Meanwhile, finely chop the parsley leaves and sprinkle them in the pan at the end of cooking .
Plate and finish with a generous sprinkle of chopped parsley . The stewed cod is ready to be enjoyed while still hot !
Stewed cod can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for up to 1-2 days. When serving, you can reheat it in a pan over low heat, adding a splash of water.
For a more Mediterranean taste, you can add black olives and desalted capers to the sauce during cooking.
For a white version, remove the tomatoes and add vegetable broth or fish stock.

