name:
Spaghetti with broccoli and shrimp
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Broccoli: 10.5oz(300 g)- to clean
Shrimps: 0.9lb(400 g)- (to be cleaned)
Anchovies in oil: 4fillets
Garlic: 3cloves
Dried chili pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Stale bread: 7.1oz(200 g)
Lemons: 1- (the juice and zest)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: to taste- lemony

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
For the series of first courses from land and sea, here is a tasty and delicious recipe: spaghetti with broccoli and shrimp! An unusual but very appetizing combination, perfect for dressing pasta. To make it even more interesting, we decided to complete the seasoning of this special pasta with broccoli with a lemon-flavored breadcrumb topping, which adds fragrance and crunchiness. With every forkful, the spaghetti will perfectly wrap around this tasty mix of seafood, vegetables, and toasted bread, allowing you to savor the different textures of the ingredients in one bite!
After the spaghetti with broccoli and shrimp, don't miss these other sea first courses with broccoli:

To prepare the spaghetti with broccoli and shrimp, first clean the broccoli and cut out the florets . Bring a pot of salted water to a boil, add the florets , and cook for 5 minutes; they should be tender but still crispy. Drain the broccoli and keep the cooking water, which you will use to cook the pasta.
Move on to the flavored breadcrumb topping: cut the stale bread into cubes , transfer it to a mixer , and blend to coarse crumbs, then flavor with grated lemon zest .
Add the lemon juice , thyme leaves , and minced garlic clove .
Finally, add a drizzle of oil and a pinch of salt. Blend again to mix everything, then spread the flavored crumbs on a baking tray lined with baking paper . Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 10-15 minutes .
Meanwhile, deal with the shrimp: detach the head from the body , then remove the shell and legs and eliminate the black vein on the back . You should get about 7 oz of flesh, which you will cut into chunks .
Cook the spaghetti in the broccoli cooking water . Meanwhile, heat a splash of oil in a large pan with the garlic cloves sliced and anchovies . You can also season with a pinch of chili pepper.
When the anchovies have melted, add the shrimp , season with salt and pepper . Saute the shrimp for 3-4 minutes over medium heat; they should not be entirely cooked. At this point, add the broccoli .
Add a ladle of pasta cooking water and cook for another minute , crushing the broccoli with a wooden spoon. Drain the spaghetti directly into the pan with the sauce and stir briefly to combine.
Turn off the heat and toss with a drizzle of oil . Plate and finish with the crispy breadcrumb topping . Your spaghetti with broccoli and shrimp is ready to be enjoyed !
The spaghetti with broccoli and shrimp can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day, in an airtight container.
If you prefer a more delicate flavor, you can omit the anchovies or reduce the amount of garlic.
Lemon thyme can be replaced with regular thyme.

