name:
Carrot and Ginger Soup with Toasted Squid
ingredients:
Carrots: 1.3lbs(600 g)- to clean
White onions: 1- medium
Fresh ginger: 1oz(30 g)- to peel
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Lemon juice: 1spoonful
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Calamari (squid): 10.6oz(300 g)- to clean
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Lemon peel: to taste
Marjoram: 1bunch
Marjoram: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The carrot, ginger, and toasted squid soup is a delicious first course that combines sea and land flavors in perfect balance. The carrots are slowly cooked with onion and ginger, then blended until you get a soft soup. The squid are toasted over high heat with seasonings that enhance their flavor. This dish is ideal for those looking for a light but tasty option, perfect to serve at the beginning of a seafood menu or for an elegant lunch. The carrot, ginger, and toasted squid soup is a real explosion of flavors, to be enjoyed spoonful after spoonful.
If you're looking for other soup recipes, also try:
To prepare the carrot, ginger, and toasted squid soup, first finely chop the onion . Peel the ginger and cut it into slices .
Peel the carrots , cut them in half , and then slice them .
In a pot, pour the oil, add the onion and ginger , and sauté over medium heat for a few minutes until the onion becomes slightly translucent. Then add the carrots, stir for 2 minutes . Season with salt and pepper .
Pour in vegetable broth , cover with a lid , and let it cook on low heat for 20 minutes or until the carrots are tender. In the meantime, clean the squid . After washing them thoroughly, gently detach the head from the body .
Remove the cartilage pen from the body . Finally, remove the outer skin and then thoroughly rinse both the outside and inside of the body. Cut the squid into rings about 0.4 inches thick .
Peel the lemon with a vegetable peeler . In a pan, pour the oil, add the crushed unpeeled garlic, lemon peels , fresh marjoram , and sauté for a few minutes.
Add the squid and cook over medium-high heat for 3-4 minutes, stirring often. When they are well browned, season with salt and pepper . Blend the carrots with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture. If it is too thick, you can add more vegetable broth or water. If you like, add some lemon juice.
Pour the carrot soup into the dish , add the squid , and a few marjoram leaves .
Finish with a sprinkle of grated lemon zest and a drizzle of raw oil . The carrot, ginger, and toasted squid soup is ready to be served .
The carrot, ginger, and toasted squid soup should be consumed as soon as it is prepared. The soup can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for 2 days. We do not recommend storing the cooked squid; it is better to cook them at the last moment.
For an even creamier soup, you can add a potato during cooking. For a more exotic taste, you can blend in a tablespoon of Greek yogurt or coconut milk.

