name:
Panna cotta with citrus sauce
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Whole milk: ¼cup(60 g)
Brown sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Orange juice: 1cup(250 g)
Lemon juice: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Rice starch: 3 ½tsp(15 g)
Oranges: 7.1oz(200 g)- in segments
Lemon peel: 1
Orange peel: 1
Orange liqueur: 1.7oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note plus 1 night in the fridge to flavor, plus 12 hours in the fridge to set

instructions:
To prepare the panna cotta with citrus sauce, first pour the milk into a small bowl, along with the seeds from a vanilla bean and the vanilla bean itself . Place in the refrigerator overnight. Then pour it into a small saucepan and add the cream .
Add the sugar and stir . As soon as it almost reaches boiling, add the previously softened gelatin . Stir until it has completely dissolved.
Strain the mixture into a bowl and place it in another bowl with ice water. Stir for a few minutes ; this way, the seeds will distribute evenly as the mixture begins to thicken. Then pour it into six molds of approximately 80 g each .
Place in the refrigerator to solidify for 12 hours . Meanwhile, prepare the citrus sauce. Grate the orange zest and the lemon zest and set aside.
Peel the orange to obtain 200 g of segments . Pour the orange juice and lemon juice into a saucepan ; heat it and in another pan pour the brown sugar . Distribute the sugar evenly and let it melt until you have obtained a caramel.
Then pour the hot juice in three parts , being very careful. Finally, stir and add the orange zest .
Add the lemon zest and orange segments . Let it cook for a few minutes .
Meanwhile, in a small bowl, pour the cornstarch and orange liqueur , mix well with a whisk and pour the mixture into the pot .
Mix well and cook for a few more minutes , then strain the mixture and let it cool completely. When the panna cotta is ready, remove it from the molds .
Transfer to a serving plate , decorate with the sauce , and serve it .
Panna cotta can be stored in the fridge for 2-3 days. The same goes for the sauce.
For a chocolate version, add 125 g of 70% chocolate and halve the amount of gelatin.

