name:
Lemon meringue cupcake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(375 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(255 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(225 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 6tbsp(90 g)
Eggs: 3
Baking powder: 3tsp(15 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Lemon juice: 6tbsp(90 g)- filtered
Sugar: 7tbsp(85 g)
Butter: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Water: 1.1oz(30 g)
Cornstarch: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Eggs: 2
Sugar: 22 ¼tbsp(280 g)
Egg whites: 5oz(140 g)- (about 4 medium)
Water: 1.8oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time in the fridge for the lemon curd (2 h) and the finished cupcakes (at least 1 h)

instructions:
The Lemon pie is the famous American-origin lemon meringue tart, which we present here in a slightly different but equally delicious version! The lemon meringue cupcakes, in fact, recall the main characteristics of this iconic dessert: soft cupcakes filled with Lemon curd , decorated with a scenic swirl of Italian meringue flambéed. If you think making these cakes is too complicated, you're wrong... with the right tools and a little time available, we are sure you will achieve an impeccable result, so much so that it will almost feel like a shame to eat your beautiful lemon meringue cupcakes!
Discover other tasty variations:

To make the lemon meringue cupcakes, start by preparing the lemon curd: in a bowl, pour the strained lemon juice, water , and cornstarch , then mix the mixture with a whisk .
In a saucepan, put the sugar and grated lemon zest , then add the previously prepared mixture . Heat gently until the sugar is dissolved .
Beat the eggs in a separate bowl, then pour them into the saucepan and cook for another 2 minutes, stirring continuously . When the mixture has thickened, add the butter .
Stir to melt it completely , then transfer the cream to a bowl and cover with plastic wrap in contact with the surface . Place in the refrigerator to cool for 2 hours.
In the meantime, focus on the cupcakes: sift the flour into a bowl , then add the salt and sugar .
Also add the grated lemon zest and baking powder , then mix the dry ingredients with a whisk .
In another bowl, pour the milk, eggs , and vegetable oil , then mix the liquids with a whisk .
At this point, combine the liquids with the dry ingredients and mix everything well . Line a muffin tray with paper liners and fill each one with about 2 oz of batter; to help yourself, you can use a piping bag . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 20-22 minutes.
Once baked, remove from the oven and let cool . Once cooled, make a hole in the cupcakes with a corer . Retrieve the lemon curd and transfer it to a piping bag, then fill the cupcakes by filling the cavity with the cream .
After filling all the cupcakes , work on the Italian meringue: in a saucepan, pour the water and 8 oz of sugar , then bring to a boil while monitoring the syrup's temperature with a thermometer .
In the meantime, pour the egg whites and the remaining 1/4 cup of sugar into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk and start whipping. When the syrup reaches a temperature of 250°F, pour it in a steady stream over the egg whites without stopping the whipping . Continue to work first at low speed and then at a higher speed until the mixture is completely cool.
Transfer the meringue to a piping bag with a star tip and garnish the surface of the cupcakes with a nice swirl . Finally, torch the meringue with a kitchen torch . Let your lemon meringue cupcakes cool in the refrigerator for at least an hour before enjoying them !
The lemon meringue cupcakes can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, in an airtight container or covered with a dome.
If you wish, you can experiment with a new variant by replacing the lemon with orange!

