name:
Savory Pie with Pears and Gorgonzola
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- round
Decana pears: 0.7lb(300 g)
Fontina cheese: 6oz(170 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 5.25oz(150 g)- spicy
Hazelnuts: ¼cup(30 g)- peeled
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sage: to taste
Chestnut honey: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
The savory pie with pears and gorgonzola is a dish built on the sweet-salty contrast, which manages to win over everyone's palate. The crispy puff pastry base encloses a filling where the bold taste of spicy gorgonzola blends with the sweetness of pears. The final touch of hazelnuts adds a crunchy note that further enriches the texture, while chestnut honey enhances the flavors with its aromatic and slightly bitter note. This savory pie is perfect to accompany an aperitif with friends or even as a main dish for a light and tasty dinner. It's simple and quick to prepare, with a few steps, you'll get a dish that will win everyone over with its mix of contrasting yet perfectly balanced flavors. All that's left is to try the savory pie with pears and gorgonzola and be charmed by this delight!
If you are looking for other savory pies, don't miss out on these:
To prepare the savory pie with pears and gorgonzola, first cut the pears into quarters , remove the core and cut into thin slices about 1/8 inch thick. Grate the fontina , roughly chop the hazelnuts and set aside.
Grease a round baking dish with a diameter of 10 inches . Line it with puff pastry and poke holes in the bottom with a fork . Cover the bottom with the fontina .
Add 5-6 tablespoons of gorgonzola , then arrange the pear slices in a radial pattern and close in the center as well . Roll the edge into a rope. Sprinkle the chopped hazelnuts over the surface .
Drizzle with oil , add a sprinkle of pepper and a few sage leaves .
Finish with chestnut honey and a little more gorgonzola . Bake in a static oven on the middle rack at 392°F for 30 minutes until golden. Let it cool slightly and your savory pie with pears and gorgonzola is ready to be enjoyed .
The savory pie with pears and gorgonzola can be stored in the refrigerator, well covered with plastic wrap or in a closed container, for a maximum of 2 days.
For a slightly milder flavor, you can use sweet gorgonzola and linden or wildflower honey. If you prefer a flakier crust, replace the puff pastry with shortcrust pastry, which will give the pie a more rustic texture. You can substitute gorgonzola with other creamy and flavorful cheeses such as taleggio, brie, or roquefort, for an even more intense note. With the same recipe, if you love the combination, you can also make a savory pie with apples and gorgonzola!

