name:
Black Cabbage Soup
ingredients:
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 1.4lbs(650 g)- (to be cleaned)
Potatoes: 0.7lb(320 g)- (to clean)
Precooked Borlotti beans: 1.1cups(250 g)- (drained weight)
Leeks: 5.6oz(160 g)- (to clean)
Carrots: 1
Water: 8 ½cups(2 l)- approximately
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Croutons: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Black cabbage soup is a rustic and hearty first course, perfect for warming up on colder days. With its enveloping consistency and the genuine taste of the ingredients, this soup brings all the flavor of tradition to the table. The slightly bitter note of black cabbage perfectly complements the sweetness of carrots and potatoes, while borlotti beans provide the right amount of protein to the dish. The preparation is easy and requires just a few steps: the result is a rich and nourishing black cabbage soup. The final touch? A drizzle of raw olive oil and some crunchy croutons to enjoy it at its best!
If you are looking for other recipes of soups and broths with black cabbage, don't miss:

To prepare the black cabbage soup, first clean the black cabbage and cut the leaves into pieces . Remove the greenest part of the leek and the first layer, then slice it into rounds 1/2 inch thick . Peel and trim the carrot and also cut it into rounds 1/2 inch thick .
Peel the potatoes and cut them into cubes about 1 1/4 inches . In a pot, pour the oil, add the leek , and sauté for a minute. Add the carrots and continue cooking for a minute.
Add the potatoes and let them stew for 5 minutes on low heat. Finally, add the black cabbage and mix everything .
Cover with water , season with salt, and continue cooking on low heat for 30 minutes, stirring occasionally . With 10 minutes left in the cooking time, add the borlotti beans, well-drained from their packing liquid , and finish cooking. Plate and complete with a drizzle of raw olive oil. Your black cabbage soup is ready to be served, perhaps accompanied by croutons or toasted bread!
Black cabbage soup can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container. Before serving, reheat gently, adding a bit of water or broth to restore the consistency.
For an even more nutritious dish, you can add spelt, barley, or brown rice during the soup's cooking.
Borlotti beans can be replaced with chickpeas or cannellini beans. If you prefer to use dried legumes, you will need to soak them and cook them separately for the time indicated on the package before adding them as stated in the recipe.
If desired, you can add fresh chili for a spicy note.

