name:
Artichoke Cutlets
ingredients:
Artichokes: 4- spiny
Eggs: 2
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Cutlets are always a reliable choice... even vegetable-based ones! Are you skeptical? The recipe for artichoke cutlets will surely change your mind: crispy on the outside and soft on the inside, the slices of artichokes are coated in a simple breading of eggs and breadcrumbs that makes them fragrant and golden. If you love fried artichokes , we're sure this version will win over not only you but the whole family, including children! Perfect as both a vegetarian main course and an appetizer, artichoke cutlets can be served with a fresh yogurt sauce and enjoyed with an aperitif.
Not just artichokes! Discover these delicious Vegetarian cutlets :

To prepare the artichoke cutlets, start by cleaning the artichokes : remove the outermost and toughest leaves , then cut off the tips and use a small knife to clean the base .
Cut the artichokes vertically into 3 or 4 slices about 0.4-0.6 inches thick . Finally, use a small knife to remove the choke . In a bowl, beat the eggs with a pinch of salt .
Dip the artichoke slices in the eggs and then coat them with breadcrumbs . Continue until all pieces are breaded .
Heat about an inch of oil in a large enough pan. When it's hot (you can check the temperature by dropping a pinch of breadcrumbs in the oil to see if it sizzles), fry a few artichokes at a time on both sides until golden; it will take about 2 minutes per side. Drain the artichokes on paper towels and salt to taste . Your artichoke cutlets are ready to be enjoyed, served with a yogurt sauce and lemon wedges if desired !
It is recommended to consume the artichoke cutlets immediately. If necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator for 1-2 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze the raw, breaded artichokes and fry them directly from frozen, making sure to slightly increase the cooking time.
You can accompany the artichokes with a sauce made by mixing plain yogurt, salt, extra virgin olive oil, parsley, and a few drops of lemon juice!

