name:
Pasta with leek cream, saffron, and Bra sausage
ingredients:
Pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)- flying saucers
Bra sausage: 7oz(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Leeks: 5- (to clean)
Saffron threads: 12
Worcestershire sauce: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Crushed red pepper: 3.5oz(100 g)
Sunflower seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the infusion time for the saffron threads (1 night)

instructions:
Pasta with leek cream, saffron, and Bra sausage is a creamy first course rich in nuances, perfect for those who love bold and refined flavors. The delicacy of the leek, which turns into a velvety cream, combines with the intense note of saffron, which not only adds color but also a unique aroma. To complete it all, the Bra sausage is added raw to enhance its genuine taste even more. To top it off, crispy fried peppers add a crunchy touch and a slight smoky note. Pasta with leek cream, saffron, and Bra sausage is perfect for those who want to impress with a rich and characterful dish, capable of winning over at the first bite!
If you are looking for other leek pasta recipes, don't miss out:

To prepare the pasta with leek cream, saffron, and Bra sausage, first put the saffron threads in hot water and let them soak overnight . Remove the roots and the green part of the leeks. Remove the first 1-2 layers and wash them.
Roughly chop the leeks into rings . In a pot, heat a generous amount of olive oil, add the leeks , the salt , and sauté well for a few minutes.
Cover with hot water and let stew for 10 minutes, until the leeks have softened. Meanwhile, fry the crispy peppers, devoid of stem and seeds , in seed oil at 300°F-320°F for a few seconds, stirring continuously. Drain them on absorbent paper to remove excess oil .
Add the dissolved saffron to the leeks , stir, and turn off the heat. Blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a fairly homogeneous cream; it doesn't need to be completely smooth. Add the Worcestershire sauce , adjust the salt, and stir.
Finally, add some thyme leaves for fragrance . Cook the pasta in plenty of salted boiling water . Drain the pasta al dente and transfer it to the pan , then mix everything together.
Turn off the heat, add a drizzle of olive oil, and toss . Plate and complete with the crispy peppers coarsely crumbled with your hands, the raw Bra sausage in pieces , and a few thyme leaves. The pasta with leek cream, saffron, and Bra sausage is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the pasta with leek cream, saffron, and Bra sausage immediately.
You can prepare the leek cream in advance and store it in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days.
For a vegetarian version, you can omit the Bra sausage and add fresh ricotta or burrata stracciatella.
If you can't find crispy peppers, you can replace them with toasted bread crumbs!

