name:
Paccheri with artichokes, clams, and bottarga
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 11.25oz(320 g)
Clams: 4.4lbs(1.5 kg)
Artichokes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (to clean)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh chili pepper: ½
White wine: 0.85cup(200 g)
Mullet Bottarga: to taste
Lemon peel: 1
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the time to purge the clams (2 h)

instructions:
Clams and bottarga : a classic combination that in this recipe meets the goodness of seasonal vegetables to create a tasty seafood first course... paccheri with artichokes, clams, and bottarga! A pasta shape ideal for capturing all the flavor of the seafood, further enhanced by the addition of bottarga and lemon zest at the end of cooking. The artichokes pair well with the clams and fit perfectly into this kind of seasoning, making it even richer and more appetizing. Spaghetti with clams is a timeless dish... but sometimes it's worth experimenting, and paccheri with artichokes, clams, and bottarga will be a delicious discovery!
Also discover these tasty first courses with clams:


To prepare paccheri with artichokes, clams, and bottarga first let the clams soak in a bowl with salted water for a couple of hours. Move on to cleaning the artichokes : remove the tougher outer leaves , then peel the stem with a small knife and cut off the tips .
Cut the artichokes in half lengthwise , then remove the choke and slice them thinly . Immerse the cleaned artichokes in a bowl with acidulated water to prevent browning.
In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil with a clove of garlic and chili pepper , then add the drained artichokes , season with salt , and sauté over medium heat for a few minutes.
Deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate completely, then lower the heat and cook covered for about ten minutes . When the artichokes are cooked, turn off the heat , remove the garlic and chili pepper, and set aside.
While the artichokes are cooking, handle the clams: in another pan, flavor a drizzle of oil with a clove of garlic and parsley stems , then add the drained clams from the soaking water . Cover with a lid and cook over high heat just long enough for the shells to open.
As they open, remove the clams from the pan . Shell almost all the mollusks, leaving some whole for decoration . Strain the clam cooking liquid and set aside.
In the meantime, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the paccheri until al dente . Pour the clam cooking liquid into the pan with the artichokes , then drain the paccheri here as well . Stir and finish cooking the pasta by adding a little cooking water if needed.
Finally, add the shelled clams and sauté everything again. Turn off the heat and flavor with chopped parsley and grated lemon zest .
Season with grated bottarga and toss with a drizzle of oil , then mix well .
Plate and garnish with the whole clams set aside , then finish with a little more grated bottarga . Your paccheri with artichokes, clams, and bottarga are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the paccheri with artichokes, clams, and bottarga immediately.
Bottarga adds a delicious boost to the dish, but if you prefer, you can omit it... the paccheri will still be excellent!

