name:
Tagliatelle with Porcini and Guanciale
ingredients:
Egg Tagliatelle pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Jowls: 6.3oz(180 g)- sliced
Porcini mushrooms: 4.2oz(120 g)- dried
Tomato paste: 1spoonful
Garlic: 1clove
Red wine: 1.8oz(50 g)
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Autumn is coming, and with it, first courses featuring mushrooms... instead of the usual pennette alla boscaiola , this time we're tempting you with a delightful twist: tagliatelle with porcini and guanciale! A tasty rustic ragù made with dried mushrooms and flavored with crispy, golden slices of guanciale, a perfect sauce to pair with a rough and porous pasta like egg tagliatelle. Easy to prepare, tagliatelle with porcini and guanciale is ideal for a family dinner when the days start to get shorter, but they also fit wonderfully into menus throughout the rest of the year!
Also, don't miss these pasta recipes with mushrooms:

To prepare the tagliatelle with porcini and guanciale, first soak the dried mushrooms in water, following the instructions on the package . Meanwhile, place the guanciale in a hot pan and brown it without adding any additional fats .
Once it's golden, drain the guanciale and collect the cooking juices in a small bowl . After the soaking time, rinse and drain the porcini , then roughly chop them .
Set a pot of water on the stove to cook the pasta. Take the pan where you browned the guanciale and wipe it with some paper towels , then infuse some olive oil with a clove of garlic . Add the mushrooms, salt them, and sauté for about ten minutes .
Deglaze with red wine , then add the tomato paste and a couple of ladles of boiling water .
Stir and remove the garlic , then add about three-quarters of the guanciale . Continue cooking over low heat .
Salt the boiling water and cook the tagliatelle for the time indicated on the package . Drain the tagliatelle and transfer them directly to the pan with the sauce , then toss everything together, adding a ladle of the cooking water. Turn off the heat and season with 1 or 2 tablespoons of the guanciale cooking juices .
Plate the dish and garnish with the remaining guanciale and a few thyme leaves . Your tagliatelle with porcini and guanciale are ready to be served !
Tagliatelle with porcini and guanciale can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
The sauce can be frozen.
If you prefer, you can replace the dried porcini with fresh mushrooms, or make a mix of both.
For a crunchy note, you can add nuts like pecans or walnuts!

