name:
Double Filling Ravioli
ingredients:
Eggs: 4
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Salt: 1pinch
Spinach: ¾cup(150 g)- already cooked and squeezed
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.8cup(200 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1cup(100 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Butter: to taste
Sage: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Double filling ravioli are a rich first course dish that combines in a new and captivating way a timeless pairing, namely ricotta and spinach. Unlike the classic ricotta and spinach ravioli , in this recipe the ingredients are assembled so that the two fillings remain separate until the moment of tasting. The double filling thus creates a dynamic of flavors that, while distinct, harmonize splendidly in a play of contrasts. The Homemade Ricotta , sweet and creamy, balances the slight bitterness of the spinach, creating a result that fully satisfies the palate. The ravioli are traditionally sautéed, with a butter and sage dressing that enhances the flavors without overpowering them. This fresh filled pasta is perfect for a Sunday family lunch or a special dinner where you want to impress with an original and delicious dish.
If you are looking for more ravioli recipes, also try:

To prepare the double filling ravioli, first take care of the dough. On a work surface, arrange the flour in a fountain shape. Break 4 eggs into it and add a pinch of salt . Use a fork to gradually incorporate the flour , then knead with your hands. Form a smooth and homogeneous dough , cover it with plastic wrap, and let it rest in a cool place for about 1 hour.
In the meantime, prepare the fillings. Cook the spinach in salted boiling water for 5 minutes , drain them , and let them cool. Squeeze well, take 5.3 oz (150 g), and blend thoroughly in a mixer .
Place them in a bowl and add the Grana Padano , season with salt and pepper , then mix . Put everything in a piping bag and set aside.
In a bowl, place the ricotta, add the Grana Padano, and nutmeg , adjust with salt and pepper , then work until obtaining a homogeneous mixture . Put this second filling in a piping bag and set aside.
Retrieve the dough and cut it into pieces to make it easier to work. Roll them out with a bit of flour and then fold them . With the help of a pasta machine, make sheets about 0.04 inches (1 mm) thick , rolling the dough through the rollers multiple times.
Cut the sheets into rectangles of 3.5x3.1 inches (9x8 cm) . At this point, on each rectangle, spread a portion of ricotta filling and a portion of spinach filling on the short sides, leaving 0.4 inches (1 cm) free at the edges . Roll the pasta over one filling, completing the turn to seal well , and do the same on the other.
Pinch the free edges to seal them and cut the excess with a pasta cutter . Continue like this until you run out of ingredients. Cook the ravioli in plenty of salted water for 2-3 minutes . Meanwhile, in a pan, melt the butter and flavor it with sage .
Drain the ravioli and toss them in the pan over low heat for a few minutes. Plate and season with pepper and a few sage leaves . Your double filling ravioli are ready to be served.
Double filling ravioli can be stored at room temperature, dusted with semolina or flour, and covered with a cloth, for a few hours. They can be frozen raw. It's better not to keep them in the fridge because the dough tends to become sticky.
Unleash your creativity by experimenting with different fillings.
You can also dress the ravioli with a good tomato sauce.

