name:
Pasta with creamed cod, anchovies, and fennel
ingredients:
Codfish: 7oz(200 g)- already soaked
Sunflower seed oil: ½cup(125 g)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Anchovies in oil: 0.7oz(20 g)- (drained)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh liquid cream: 3tbsp(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Paccheri pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Wild fennel: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Note plus 30 min of resting time for the cod

instructions:
With creamed cod , you can prepare many delicious appetizers, like the classic crostini, but also exquisite first courses like this one we present to you today: pasta with creamed cod, anchovies, and fennel. For the pasta shape, we chose paccheri, ready to embrace this creamy and flavorful sauce, thanks to the addition of anchovies that completely melt during cooking... along with the cream, they form a truly velvety sauce ready to coat the pasta perfectly and release all their savory taste! This is a perfect dish for a special dinner or to pamper yourself on an ordinary day. Each forkful is a discovery, a balance of flavors that complement and enhance each other. Because, in the end, it's precisely this that makes a dish unforgettable! Discover more recipes with cod:

To prepare pasta with creamed cod, anchovies, and fennel, first, prepare the creamed cod. Remove the skin , take out the bones with kitchen tweezers, and cut it into pieces of about an inch . Transfer the cod to a saucepan .
Add the bay leaves and cover with water , then cook for 30 minutes from the boil, skimming off the foam from time to time with a skimmer . The cod will be cooked when the pieces flake apart, then drain it .
Transfer it to a stand mixer fitted with a whisk . Start the mixer at medium speed and add the sunflower oil in a thin stream . When you have obtained a creamy mixture, adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper.
Transfer to a piping bag and let it firm up in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes. In the meantime, put a pot full of salted water on the stove, which will be used for cooking the pasta, and as soon as it boils, dip the paccheri in . In a pan, pour a generous amount of oil, 2 cloves of garlic, and the anchovies .
Let them melt while stirring, then add the cream . Cook for a few seconds and remove the garlic cloves ; set aside. Drain the pasta al dente and transfer it to the pan .
Add a ladle of cooking water and finish cooking the pasta for another 1-2 minutes . Once everything is well combined, plate it .
Garnish each plate with dollops of creamed cod , add a grind of black pepper , and a sprinkle of chopped fennel . Your paccheri are ready to serve!
The creamed cod can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1-2 days.
We recommend consuming the pasta immediately; alternatively, it can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day.
If you prefer, you can add a couple of tablespoons of creamed cod to the sauce to make it richer.

