name:
Marinated Shrimp on the Plancha
ingredients:
Shrimps: 20- pink
Wild fennel: to taste
Dill: to taste
Mint: to taste
Lemon peel: to taste
Saffron threads: to taste
Maldon salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Lemon juice: 1spoonful
Sweet Paprika: 1pinch
Saffron: 0oz(0.15 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Tomato paste: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 2 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 30 min. of rest in the fridge

instructions:
Easy, tasty, and perfect for any festive occasion, our marinated shrimp on the plancha are the seafood appetizer you've been looking for! Inspired by the traditional "plancha" cooking method, typical of Spanish cuisine, which gives the shrimp an irresistible golden crust and a unique flavor, these delightful shellfish are enriched with a rich and customizable marinade, designed to satisfy every palate. We chose paprika and saffron, ingredients with a bold character, to enhance every bite. To complete the dish, a fresh herb salad adds a touch of lightness and vivacity, perfect for balancing the richness of the shrimp. An explosion of flavors that will captivate your guests!
Try these delicious shrimp recipes as well:

To prepare the marinated shrimp on the plancha, start by cleaning the shrimp: remove the tail and shell but keep the head . Use a toothpick to remove the vein from the back and set aside. Prepare the shrimp marinade: squeeze the lemon juice into a bowl, one tablespoon will suffice .
Add the saffron , tomato paste , and paprika .
Finish with olive oil and a pinch of salt . Mix to emulsify the marinade well .
Pour the marinade over the cleaned shrimp , ensuring they are entirely covered , then wrap the tray with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 30 minutes.
Heat a non-stick pan and once hot, place the marinated shrimp . Sear the shrimp for one minute on each side . Remove them from the pan as soon as they form a crust . Serve the shrimp immediately with Maldon salt to taste .
Finish with a mix of herbs: dill, fennel, and mint and lemon zest . The marinated shrimp on the plancha are ready to enjoy .
We recommend consuming the marinated shrimp on the plancha immediately.
You can substitute pink shrimp with red shrimp or prawns.

