name:
Pizza alla diavola
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Water: 1cup(250 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: ½tsp(2 g)
Water: 2cups(450 g)
Fine salt: 4tsp(25 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.6tsp(3 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Pizza mozzarella cheese: 8cups(900 g)
Spicy salami: 7.1oz(200 g)
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 10 min
Cook time: 6 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Note + the maturation time of the biga (24 h) and the rising time of the dough (about 2 h total)

instructions:
It's one of the most ordered pizzas in Italy and around the world, and it's not the margherita ... we're talking about the devil's pizza! Tomato, mozzarella, basil, and spicy salami are the stars of this classic recipe, also known abroad as “ pepperoni pizza .” Simple and super tasty, devil's pizza features on the menu of every pizzeria: to prepare it at home, you just need to follow our directions to create a perfect dough , ready to top as you like. Besides devil's pizza, here are other appetizing ideas to make traditional and not only pizzas:

To prepare the devil's pizza, first, make the starter dough: pour the water in a jug, crumble the fresh yeast , and mix to dissolve it completely . Add the water and yeast mixture to the flour you have placed in a bowl .
First, mix with a spoon , then work with your hands but without kneading too much, just ensure that all the flour is incorporated. Roughly break up the dough in the bowl , then cover with plastic wrap and let it mature in the refrigerator for 24 hours.
After the maturation time, put the pieces of the starter dough in the bowl of a stand mixer with a hook attachment . Add the crumbled yeast and the flour .
Also pour in half of the water and turn on the mixer. Gradually add the remaining water while keeping the mixer running until completely absorbed. At this point, also add the salt and the oil slowly , still with the mixer running.
When the dough is smooth and homogeneous , transfer it to a work surface, cover with the bowl, and let it rest for 10 minutes . After this time, give it 2 folds .
Let the dough rest again, covered with the bowl for 10 minutes . Repeat this operation 2 more times, then put the dough back in the bowl , cover with plastic wrap, and let it rise at room temperature for about an hour or until doubled . Meanwhile, preheat the baking stone on the top shelf of the already hot oven at 482°F (in static mode).
Once doubled in volume , turn the dough onto the work surface and use a dough scraper to cut it into 6 portions, approximately 10 oz each .
Make small folds to form balls and place them one by one on an oiled tray .
Oil the balls on the surface as well , cover with plastic wrap, and let rise at room temperature for 30 minutes . Meanwhile, prepare the topping: pour the peeled tomatoes in a bowl and crush them with your hands .
Season with oil , salt , and basil, then mix . Cut the spicy salami into thin slices.
After the rising time, spread the dough balls on a semolina-dusted surface, pressing with your fingertips from the center and gently stretching the dough until it reaches a diameter of about 12-13 inches . Spread the tomato sauce on the surface and distribute the mozzarella .
Add the slices of spicy salami , then gently transfer the pizza onto the peel and slide it onto the baking stone. Bake for 6 minutes, then remove from the oven and garnish with basil. Your devil's pizza is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the devil's pizza immediately. It can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day.
For an even more flavorful variant, you can enrich your salami pizza with taggiasca olives !
The pizza peel is a very useful tool for putting the stretched pizza dough in the oven and baking it on the pizza stone. If you don't have one, you can use a smooth tray or a cutting board lightly dusted with semolina, but keep in mind that it will be more challenging to manage.

