name:
Pasta with Arugula Pesto and Shrimp
ingredients:
Fusilloni pasta: 11.25oz(320 g)
Shrimps: 8- of Mazara
White wine: ¼cup(70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Arugula: 3 ½cups(100 g)
Peeled almonds: 1.8oz(50 g)
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Arugula: to taste
Almond slices: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Pasta with arugula pesto and shrimp is a main course that combines the freshness of arugula and the delicacy of shrimp in a refined and flavorful dish. The arugula, with its slightly spicy and bitter taste, is the ideal base for a pesto that is different from the usual, enriched with almonds. In this case, the arugula pesto is prepared with the cooking base of shrimp shells, which are toasted in a pan and deglazed with white wine, imparting a marine note to the sauce that perfectly complements the sweet flesh of the shrimp that are seared. The combination of these ingredients makes the pasta with arugula pesto and shrimp a tasty and refined dish, also suitable for a special dinner or to surprise your guests with a touch of creativity.
If you are looking for other pasta with shrimp recipes, also try:

To prepare the pasta with arugula pesto and shrimp, first remove the heads and shells of the shrimp . Cut the shrimp flesh in half and set aside. In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil and add the shrimp heads and shells , then toast them for a few minutes.
Deglaze with white wine and let all the alcohol evaporate , then strain everything through a sieve, collecting the cooking base in a jug .
Add the arugula and almonds , then add a drizzle of oil, salt, and lemon juice . Blend until you get a smooth and homogeneous sauce .
Cook the pasta in plenty of salted water and drain it al dente in a large bowl . Add the raw shrimp .
Then pour a ladle of pasta cooking water into the bowl and stir: this way you will quickly sear the shrimp. Add the arugula pesto and mix thoroughly .
Plate and garnish with arugula leaves and almond slivers . Your pasta with arugula pesto and shrimp is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the pasta with arugula pesto and shrimp immediately; if necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator for up to one day.
If the arugula pesto does not turn out smooth enough, you can add a bit of water and continue blending.
As an alternative to almonds, you can use walnuts: they will add an earthy note to the pesto that pairs well with the arugula and shrimp.
If you prefer, you can briefly grill the shrimp instead of searing them; this way they will have a slightly smoky flavor.

