name:
Pan Pizza
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Brewer's yeast: 0.4oz(10 g)
Malt: 1tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¼tsp(8 g)
Zucchini: 3cups(400 g)
Shallot: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Mint: 5tsp(5 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Zucchini: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sunflower seed oil: to taste
Mint: 1cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)
Ice: to taste
Pizza mozzarella cheese: 2 ¾cups(300 g)
Maldon salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Note + rising times (about 2 ½ hours total)

instructions:
The pan pizza originated in Turin around the 1930s and is a specialty of the Piedmont region. Also known as skillet pizza, it gets its name from the pan in which it is baked, which should have a diameter of 8 to 10 inches: the dough is spread directly onto the well-oiled base so that, after baking, it is crispy on the outside and soft in the center. In addition to the texture that is between a pizza and a focaccia , pan pizza is also characterized by a multi-phase fermentation and can be topped as you prefer… here we offer you a delicious white version with mozzarella and zucchini cream, garnished with fried zucchini and mint oil! Follow our recipe and discover other ways to bake pizza:

To prepare the pan pizza, first pour the dry yeast and malt into the water and stir to obtain a homogeneous mixture .
Place the flour in a bowl and add the yeast mixture , then stir with a spoon until the flour has absorbed all the liquid. You will get a very rustic mixture, cover with plastic wrap and let rise for 45 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the zucchini: those to be fried should be cut with a mandolin to a thickness of about 1/8 inch . Set aside and cut into cubes the zucchini you will need for the cream . Peel the shallot and slice it thinly .
In a pan, flavor some oil with the shallot and a crushed clove of garlic , then add the diced zucchini , salt, and mint leaves .
Cook over medium heat for a few minutes , if necessary, you can moisten them with a little water. When the zucchini are wilted, transfer them to a blender and blend to obtain a smooth cream . Set aside.
After the 45 minutes of resting the dough, add the salt and make folds by bringing the outer edges inward . Form a ball and let the dough rise again covered with plastic wrap for another 45 minutes .
In the meantime, take care of the fried zucchini: heat the seed oil to a temperature of 300°F, then immerse the zucchini slices and fry until golden , then drain on absorbent paper and set aside .
After the 45-minute rest period of the dough, add the oil and proceed with the folds as before, bringing the outer edges inward . Form a ball and let it rise again for 45 minutes in the bowl covered with plastic wrap .
In the meantime, devote yourself to the mint oil: bring a pot of salted water to a boil , then immerse the mint leaves . Blanch them for a few seconds and drain .
Transfer the mint to a bowl with ice water to cool it down and maintain its vivid color . Squeeze the leaves well and place them in a pitcher , then add the oil .
Blend with an immersion blender , then strain the mixture obtained through a fine-mesh sieve . Set aside the mint oil .
At this point, take the risen dough and flip it onto the oiled work surface , then spread it by gently pulling the sides . Fold the outer edges inward .
Shape the dough and divide it into 2 equal parts . Shape the pieces into rounds and place each in a 10-inch iron pan greased with oil. Oil the surface as well and let rise for 20 minutes.
After this time , spread the dough with oiled fingertips to cover the entire surface of the pan, being careful not to release the fermentation gases . Season the surface with oil and Maldon salt , then bake in a preheated static oven at 450°F for 20 minutes, placing the pan on the lowest shelf.
Once golden, remove the pizza from the oven and spread the mozzarella over the entire surface . Complete cooking for 5 minutes in grill mode, placing it this time on the highest shelf. When the mozzarella has melted, remove and garnish with the zucchini cream, creating diagonal lines .
Add the fried zucchini and season with a few drops of mint oil . Your pan pizza is ready to be served !
Pan pizza can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
You can freeze the base after baking.
The pan should preferably be made of iron and non-stick, but an aluminum or steel one will also work. Alternatively, you can use an iron pan suitable for oven baking.
If you wish, you can vary the vegetable cream by replacing the zucchini with other vegetables, such as bell peppers, for example.

