name:
Baccalà alla ghiotta
ingredients:
Desalted cod: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Canned tomatoes: 2.1cups(500 g)
Yellow potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Onions: 1
Pine nuts: 2oz(60 g)
Raisins: 2oz(60 g)
Salted capers: 2oz(60 g)
Green olives: 0.7oz(20 g)- pitted
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Codfish alla ghiotta brings together the most characteristic ingredients of Sicilian cuisine: raisins, pine nuts, capers, and olives are added to potatoes and tomato pulp for a tasty main fish dish of the Mediterranean tradition. The stewing keeps the codfish soft and juicy, while the flavorful sauce will be an irresistible call for 'scarpetta'... even though it's often customary to use the leftover sauce to prepare a good plate of pasta. We still recommend bringing some slices of rustic bread to the table because the codfish alla ghiotta is so tempting that it will likely be gone in one sitting!
Also try these recipes of stewed codfish :

To prepare the codfish alla ghiotta, first cut the desalted cod into pieces, without removing the skin . Clean the onion and slice it thinly , then cut the olives into rings .
Rinse the capers to remove the salt and finely chop the parsley . Finally, peel and cut the potatoes into cubes . Heat a drizzle of oil in a large pot, then add the potatoes .
Brown the potatoes for a few minutes , then pour in a ladle of water . Cover with the lid and cook over medium heat for about 10-15 minutes, or until they are tender .
Meanwhile, in another large pan, fry the onion with a splash of oil , then add the tomato pulp and salt . Cover with the lid and cook over low heat for 15 minutes.
After this time, add the potatoes , the pieces of cod , and the raisins .
Also add the pine nuts , olives , and desalted capers .
Flavor with the chopped parsley , then cover with the lid and continue to cook for another 15 minutes, always on low heat .
Once the cooking time has elapsed, plate and garnish with some chopped parsley before serving your delicious codfish alla ghiotta !
Codfish alla ghiotta can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you like it spicy, you can add some chili pepper to the onion stir-fry.

