name:
Linguine with dill and citrus pesto
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Oranges: 1
Lemons: 1
Lime: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)
Hazelnuts: ½cup(60 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Dill: 13tbsp(40 g)
Orange juice: 1tbsp(15 g)
Lemon juice: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Lime juice: 2tsp(10 g)
Capers in vinegar: 1spoonful
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Bread: 1.75oz(50 g)- crumb
Hazelnuts: ¼cup(40 g)
Dill: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Linguine with dill and citrus pesto is the winter main course that cannot be missing from your special occasions. A rich and original sauce that mixes fresh and aromatic flavors, perfect for those looking for something new without sacrificing taste. The best part? It's ready in the time it takes to cook the pasta! Zero stress in the kitchen, but a chef-like result that will make even the most demanding palates fall in love. We have reinterpreted simple yet character-rich ingredients such as capers, citrus fruits and dill in a plant-based and contemporary way. The result is a dish that is both fresh, tasty, and surprising. We hope you will enjoy the linguine with dill and citrus pesto as much as we did!
If you love citrusy notes, also try our orange risotto !
To prepare the linguine with dill and citrus pesto, start with the dill pesto: wash the dill and place it in the mixer bowl , then add the hazelnuts and the capers .
Pour in the lime juice , orange, and lemon juice , then add the grated cheese .
Salt , pepper, and add part of the oil . Blend and pour more oil as needed to achieve a smooth and creamy pesto . Set it aside.
Prepare the breadcrumbs: cut the crumb into cubes and place it in the mixer with the other ingredients: hazelnuts , dill , capers , salt, and pepper.
Pour in the oil and blend until you get coarse crumbs , then transfer them to a hot pan and toast them until they are golden and fragrant .

Set aside the breadcrumbs and cook the linguine al dente . Meanwhile, peel the orange , lime, and lemon.
Extract the segments that will be used to garnish the dishes . When the pasta is al dente, drain it directly into a pan where you have placed the pesto . Adjust the consistency with cooking water and mix well .
Plate by garnishing the pasta with plenty of breadcrumbs , citrus segments, a generous grating of lime zest , and sprigs of dill. The linguine with dill and citrus pesto is ready to serve !
We recommend consuming the linguine with dill and citrus pesto immediately.
You can prepare the dill pesto in advance and store it in the refrigerator.
To peel citrus fruits, means to remove the segments along with the slight white membrane enclosing them, as well as the outer rind, obtaining only the pulp. To do this, use a sharp knife, also known as a paring knife: carefully peel the citrus fruit, making sure to remove all the peel, including the white part underneath, then use the knife to extract the segments by cutting along the membranes.

