name:
Pasta with Zucchini and Saffron
ingredients:
Pipe Rigate pasta: 2.8cups(320 g)
Zucchini: 4cups(500 g)
Saffron: (0.3 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Mint: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
If you want to prepare an easy and quick main course that's still really tasty, pasta with zucchini and saffron is just what you need! Save this recipe in your notebooks; it will be a trump card to show off when unexpected guests arrive or even when you simply don't know what to cook for a family dinner. The classic pasta and zucchini is dressed in gold thanks to the unmistakable color of saffron, absorbing all its taste and fragrance, thus transforming into an original and surprising dish! We chose to use pipe pasta, but of course, you can use whatever you love most. Discover how easy it is to prepare pasta with zucchini and saffron, a perfect dinner-saver ready in just 30 minutes and ideal to serve on many occasions! Here are more first courses with saffron not to be missed:

To prepare the pasta with zucchini and saffron, start with the zucchini. Wash them, trim them , cut them first into slices and then into cubes of about 0.6 inches . Place a pot filled with salted water on the stove, which will be used for cooking the pasta.
In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil and a clove of garlic . Let it flavor, then add the zucchini . Sauté over medium-high heat for about 7 minutes. When they are tender and well-browned, remove the clove of garlic .
Then season with salt , turn off the heat, and keep warm. As soon as the water boils, toss in the pipe rigate . Dissolve the 2 sachets of saffron in a little warm water .
Stir to dissolve completely . When the pasta is al dente, drain it and transfer it directly into the pan with the sauce . Turn the heat back on and pour the saffron dissolved in water .
Add another ladle of cooking water and a drizzle of oil . Mix everything well and finally stir in the grated Grana cheese .
Sauté once more and plate. Decorate with fresh mint leaves and immediately serve your pasta with zucchini and saffron piping hot !
We recommend consuming the pasta with zucchini and saffron immediately; alternatively, it can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of a couple of days.
If the pasta with zucchini and saffron is leftover, reheat it in the oven with mozzarella and more grated cheese on top!

