name:
Ligurian Rabbit
ingredients:
Rabbit: 4.4lbs(1.5 kg)
Taggiasca olives: 3.5oz(100 g)
Pine nuts: 0.3cup(40 g)
Onions: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Meat broth: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Rossese di Dolceacqua wine: 1glass
Thyme: 2sprigs
Rosemary: 1sprig
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 7 ½tbsp(100 g)- approximately
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Ligurian rabbit is a second course that's simple yet rich in flavor, thanks to the addition of typical local ingredients such as Taggiasca olives, pine nuts, and aromatic herbs. The slow cooking of the rabbit results in succulent meat with a soft and delicate texture, and the use of Rossese di Dolceacqua, a typical red wine from the Riviera di Ponente, helps create a delicious sauce that ties all the elements together and envelops every bite. However, the recipe can vary from region to region or from family to family, and in Ligurian cuisine, there are alternatives with white wine and walnuts, for example. Try our version of Ligurian rabbit and serve it with a side of potatoes or seasonal vegetables... but most importantly, don't forget some slices of good homemade bread to soak up the sauce!
If you're looking for more rabbit recipes, also try:

To prepare Ligurian rabbit, first make the meat broth with our recipe and keep it warm. Cut the whole rabbit into a dozen pieces . In a pan, add the oil, garlic , and chopped onion , then let it brown over low heat for a few minutes.
Remove the sauté from the pan and set it aside. Place the pieces of meat in the same pan and brown over medium heat for 5-6 minutes per side , until the meat turns a nice golden color. Meanwhile, chop the rosemary needles .
Add the sauté back to the pan , along with the bay leaves and thyme .
Add the chopped rosemary and deglaze with the red wine . Once all the alcohol has evaporated, add the Taggiasca olives .
Finally, add the pine nuts and pour in the broth . Cover with a lid and cook over low heat for an hour or until the rabbit becomes tender.
Turn the meat occasionally and salt halfway through cooking . You can add more broth if needed. Your Ligurian rabbit is ready to be served !
Ligurian rabbit can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days. Before serving it again, reheat it gently in a pan, adding a bit of broth or water to keep the meat tender and the sauce creamy.
Nothing of the rabbit goes to waste! If you've bought a whole one, you can use the head (by boiling it with a few bay leaves, a carrot, and a stalk of celery) to make the broth with which you'll moisten the rabbit during cooking. The cooking liquid will be even more precious, especially if you've enriched it with a good glass of Rossese di Dolceacqua. In any case, don't throw it away because if you've prepared this dish in advance, you can simply reheat it when serving, allowing the sauce to thicken.
A tidbit about Rossese di Dolceacqua: it's said that even Napoleon was so impressed by the goodness and delicacy of this red wine that he granted the Ligurians the "favor" of naming it after himself, but the people of Dolceacqua, proud and stubborn, refused the general's kind offer and continued to call it by its original name.

