name:
Escarole Pizza
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 5 ½cups(700 g)- (or type 00 flour)
Water: 2.1cups(500 ml)- at room temperature
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(4 g)
Fine salt: 3.3tsp(20 g)
Escarole (endive): 3 ½cups(100 g)- curly raw
Gaeta olives: 2.1oz(60 g)- pitted
Salted capers: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)- desalted
Anchovies in oil: 0.4oz(10 g)- in fillets like Cetara
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note plus 6 hours for the dough rising

instructions:
Pizza: "a great love and nothing more"! We have worked it to achieve a crisp dough and long matured ; we fried it in the Neapolitan way and presented the mini version of the fabulous pizzelle (or montanare). We couldn't help but offer you another staple of this family of Campanian leavened products: the escarole pizza! A crisp shell that hides a steaming filling of escarole, Cetara anchovies, and Gaeta olives. All kneaded and assembled with art by Master Baker Franco Pepe. If the casatiello is the king of the table during Easter, the escarole pizza is a specialty that true "veracious" Campanians love to enjoy for Christmas Eve lunch, but it can also be prepared during the rest of the year, particularly in the months when the escarole is found on the market with a bright and lively green color! Your escarole pizza, still warm, will surely have an extra edge, but it will be delicious even if served at room temperature for an original appetizer! We are sure you will fall in love with this dough following Franco Pepe's instructions, and if it’s not escarole season, don't worry: you can use it to prepare delicious fried pizzelle !
To prepare the escarole pizza, first, pour some of the indicated room temperature water into a small jug. Add the fresh brewer's yeast and stir with a teaspoon until it completely dissolves . Let the yeast rest and in the meantime place about 30% of the flour on one side of the kneading trough (or the wooden or glass bowl you will use for kneading) ; the kneading trough is a rectangular wooden container, which can withstand the temperature of the dough well and prevents it from sticking to the edges. Also, pour the room temperature water on the other side of the kneading trough, avoiding pouring it directly on the flour .
Then also add the salt to the water and dissolve it with your hands . When you no longer feel any grain by touch, start mixing the flour inside the kneading trough with both hands .
Pour in some more flour and gradually mix it into the water with your hands, using rotating movements. When you have incorporated about 50% of the flour, add the previously dissolved yeast . Continue adding more flour a little at a time
continuing to knead with your hands using a rotating motion until you have incorporated it all . Making the dough by hand allows you to better gauge its consistency to understand if it is necessary to add more flour or not. At this point, continue working the dough inside the kneading trough for 10-15 minutes until it is smooth and homogeneous . Now all that's left is to let the dough rise, leaving it in the trough (or bowl) and covering it gently with a slightly damp cloth in contact with the surface of the dough . Let it rest for at least 4 hours at room temperature, away from drafts.
After this time, the dough will be well risen ; sprinkle it with a little flour and with the help of a dough scraper, transfer it to a lightly floured surface . Divide the dough in half ,
then add a little flour and shape each portion into a spherical shape . Place them in two separate bowls, previously sprinkled with a little flour . Cover again with moist cloths and let rest for another 2 hours.
Meanwhile, preheat the oven to the highest setting. Desalt the capers by rinsing them several times under running water, cut the escarole taking the most tender part, then rinse and dry it. Then take one of the two doughs, transfer it to the lightly floured surface and flatten it with your hands, giving it an oval shape and using a little flour to help. Repeat the same operation with the other dough, making sure to obtain two disks of the same size. Place about half of the escarole in the center of one of the disks, leaving at least a couple of inches around the edge .
Then add the whole desalted capers , the pitted Gaeta olives , and season with a drizzle of oil .
Add the anchovy fillets, breaking them with your hands , and finish with the reserved escarole. Place the other dough disk on top and press lightly with your fingers to seal the edge well .
Using a pastry cutter, trim the edges by cutting off the excess dough and remove it by gently pulling it with your hands . Be very careful with the curly escarole, which at this stage could puncture the dough; lift the escarole pizza
and transfer it to a non-stick baking tray . Brush the surface of the pizza very gently with oil using a brush . Bake the pizza in the preheated static oven at the highest temperature for about 12-15 minutes. Then take it out and serve your escarole pizza .
The escarole pizza, once cooked, can be kept for up to 2 days; alternatively, it can be frozen once it is completely cold.
The dough alone can be stored in the refrigerator for 24 hours; alternatively, it can be frozen before the second rise.
Add raisins and pine nuts to the filling for an even richer taste!
Don't throw away the leftover dough! They are perfect for making small calzones!

