name:
Shrimps in Pink Sauce
ingredients:
Shrimp paste: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Chives: to taste
Romaine lettuce: 2leaves
Eggs: 1
Sunflower seed oil: ½cup(120 g)
Lemon juice: 1tbsp(15 g)- filtered
Salt: to taste
Ketchup: 5tbsp(70 g)
Worcestershire sauce: 1tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the cooling time of the shrimps in the refrigerator (20 minutes)

instructions:
Shrimps in pink sauce are a timeless appetizer, perfect for enhancing the table on special occasions, such as Christmas dinner or New Year’s Eve feast, but they are also ideal for a casual gathering with friends! The shrimps, once boiled, are mixed with homemade cocktail sauce , which enhances the taste of the shellfish without overpowering it. If you are looking for an appetizer that combines simplicity, elegance, and versatility, this shrimp cocktail is perfect for you! Serve it with some croutons, on canapés, or to fill delicious vol-au-vent ... success is guaranteed!
If you are looking for other shrimp appetizers, don't miss out on:
To prepare the shrimps in pink sauce, begin with the mayonnaise. In a jug, place the egg , pour in the vegetable oil and the filtered lemon juice . Season with salt.
Blend with an immersion blender moving it from top to bottom until you achieve a stable emulsion and mayonnaise of the right consistency. Transfer it to a bowl and add the ketchup .
Mix . Add the Worcestershire sauce and mix again until you get the pink sauce . Set aside.
Clean the shrimps, remove the head , the shell , and with the help of a toothpick, the intestine .
In a pot, bring water with a pinch of salt to a boil, then immerse the shrimps and cook for 2 minutes. Drain them and transfer them to a bowl . Let them cool in the fridge for 20 minutes. After this time, take the shrimps and add the pink sauce .
Gently mix until all the shrimps are completely covered with the sauce . Finely chop the chives . Wash a lettuce and keep the nicest leaves, dry them and place them on the bottom of the plate, lay the shrimps on them, and finish with a sprinkle of chives. Your shrimps in pink sauce are ready to be served .
Shrimps in pink sauce can be stored in the fridge in an airtight container for 3 days.
If you love spicy, you can add drops of Tabasco or paprika to the pink sauce. If you prefer bolder flavors, add drops of brandy. For a fresh touch, grate lemon or orange zest into the sauce.

