name:
Vegetable Flan in the Microwave
ingredients:
Eggplant: 5.3oz(150 g)
Zucchini: 1.3cups(160 g)
Red peppers: 1cup(150 g)
Yellow potatoes: 5oz(140 g)
Provola cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Breadcrumbs: 0.6cup(70 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 23 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
The microwave vegetable flan is a main dish rich in flavor, thanks to a colorful and tasty mix of vegetables. The vegetables can be chosen based on personal taste and seasonal availability, allowing for unique and personalized combinations. The addition of provolone cheese creates a creamy texture that perfectly binds the layers, while the breadcrumbs, distributed between them, provide a pleasant crunch, contrasting with the softness of the vegetables. The microwave proves to be a useful cooking aid, acting as a practical and fast tool, perfect for those who have little time but still want to bring a healthy and tasty dish to the table. This vegetable flan is extremely versatile: it can be served hot as a main course for a light lunch or a quick dinner, but it is also ideal if prepared in advance and enjoyed cold during a picnic or as part of a summer buffet, pleasing both guests and family.
If you are looking for other flan recipes, also try:
If instead, you are looking for microwave recipes, don’t miss:
To prepare the vegetable flan in the microwave, first cut the eggplants lengthwise into slices 3/4 inch thick . Also slice the bell pepper, removing the seeds and internal filaments, and the potatoes into rounds about 3/8 inch thick . Cut the provolone into regular slices as well .
Butter a 10.5x4 inch mold and sprinkle with breadcrumbs . Place the eggplants at the bottom, add a drizzle of oil, and season with salt and pepper .
Neatly arrange the provolone slices on the eggplants, sprinkle with breadcrumbs , and add the grated Parmesan cheese . Arrange the zucchini as well .
Drizzle with oil , season with salt and pepper. Add the provolone, breadcrumbs, and grated Parmesan cheese . Also place the bell pepper slices , drizzle again with oil, season with salt and pepper again, then arrange the provolone slices. Sprinkle again with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan cheese.
Cover with the potatoes , then season with oil, salt, pepper, breadcrumbs, and grated Parmesan cheese . Cook in the microwave at 650 W for 20 minutes. Then continue cooking on grill mode for another 3 minutes. Your microwave vegetable flan is ready to be enjoyed .
The microwave vegetable flan can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for 2-3 days. If you want to extend the preservation, you can also freeze it. Cut it into portions and wrap them individually in plastic wrap or use freezer-safe containers. When you decide to enjoy it, just thaw the portions in the refrigerator for a few hours and then heat them in the microwave.
To achieve a perfect flan, the secret is to slice the vegetables uniformly to ensure even cooking. You can customize the flan using seasonal vegetables. Instead of provolone, you can use smoked scamorza, mozzarella, or even gorgonzola, to give the flan a more intense and creamy note.

