name:
Omelette with prosciutto, asparagus and potatoes
ingredients:
Eggs: 4
Whole milk: ¼cup(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Butter: to taste
Prosciutto crudo: 3.2oz(90 g)- Tuscan PDO
Provola cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Mayonnaise: 3tbsp(40 g)
Marjoram: to taste
Asparagus: 5.3oz(150 g)
Potatoes: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
The omelette is a classic dish, typical of French cuisine. Usually eaten for breakfast or a quick lunch, it can be served plain or stuffed, like this version we offer you today. The omelette with prosciutto, asparagus, and potatoes is an easy recipe to prepare, but truly delicious! A dish that the whole family will certainly appreciate thanks to its simplicity and rich, tasty flavor. Follow our steps to make these delicious omelettes and pay close attention to the cooking: they should be golden on the outside but soft on the inside, so don't cook them too much... only a quick cooking will allow you to get a creamy filling! A diced mix of potatoes and asparagus, cubes of provolone, and slices of Tuscan DOP prosciutto are the perfect filling to enrich them. Serve the omelette with prosciutto, asparagus, and potatoes for breakfast, for Sunday brunch, or a quick lunch! Here are other omelettes to try:

To prepare the omelette with prosciutto, asparagus, and potatoes, first peel the potatoes and cut them into 1/2-inch cubes . Now move on to the asparagus, break them with your hands by applying slight pressure on the end of the stalk; this way you'll remove the hardest part .
Then cut the green part into slices . In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, then add the potatoes and the asparagus .
Stir-fry and cook everything over high heat for about 10 minutes . Season with salt and set aside. In a bowl, pour the eggs and season with salt .
Add the milk and beat with a whisk until you get a homogeneous mixture. Heat a pan with an 8-inch diameter and grease it with a little butter .
When the pan is hot, pour a ladle of the egg mixture inside and rotate it to cover the entire surface. Cover with a lid and cook for about 2 minutes. At this point, using a spatula, fold the omelette in half .
Ensure the outside is well-golden while the center remains creamy . Continue this way for the others as well . Now plate: place the first omelette on a plate .
Add dollops of mayonnaise and cubes of potatoes and asparagus . Place 3 slices of prosciutto on top of each omelette .
Finally, add cubes of provolone and marjoram leaves . Your omelette with prosciutto, asparagus, and potatoes is ready to be served !
The omelette with prosciutto, asparagus, and potatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
When you pour the egg mixture, the pan must be very hot; only in this way will the outside be golden and the inside still creamy.
Instead of asparagus, you can use other seasonal diced vegetables, or even spinach.

