name:
Pasta with Mussels and Saffron
ingredients:
Gnocchetti Sardi pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (to clean)
Saffron: 1tsp(0.3 g)- (2 packets of 0.15 g each)
Garlic: 2cloves
Pecorino cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
White wine: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Parsley: to taste- minced
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Pasta with mussels and saffron is an enticing first course that combines sea flavors with spicy notes. The mussels, with their brininess, marry well with the enveloping aroma of saffron, which gives the pasta an unmistakable color, fragrance, and taste. This recipe is perfect for those looking for a tasty and elegant dish, yet simple to prepare. It's ideal for a family lunch but also for special occasions or celebrations, when you want to bring something original to the table. By following the step-by-step procedure, you will be able to make perfect pasta with mussels and saffron, guaranteed to be a success!
If you're looking for other saffron first courses, also try:

To prepare pasta with mussels and saffron, first take care of the cleaning of the mussels . Scrape the shell with the back of a knife or a scouring pad to remove all impurities. Then pull away the byssus, rinse under running water until the water is clear. In a pot, put the garlic, parsley stems, and oil and let it infuse for a few minutes. Add the mussels and deglaze with white wine .
When the alcohol has evaporated, cover with a lid and let the mussels open, it will take about 5 minutes. Shell the mussels , collect them in a bowl, and set aside covered. Strain the cooking liquid from the mussels and keep it .
Cook the pasta . Pour the mussel cooking liquid into a pan . Drain the pasta halfway through cooking and transfer it to the pan , finish cooking. If needed, add pasta cooking water.
Dissolve the saffron in a little hot water . Add the pecorino and mussels into the pan. Turn off the heat and stir to combine.
Finally, add the saffron and chopped parsley . Mix to combine the ingredients and serve. The pasta with mussels and saffron is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the pasta with mussels and saffron as soon as it's ready; if leftover, you can store it in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for one day. Before serving, reheat it in a pan with a little water or broth to restore the creaminess to the sauce.
If you wish, you can enrich the dish with clams, shrimp, or squid!
You can use Grana or Parmesan instead of pecorino.

