name:
Shrimp Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
White wine: 1.8oz(50 g)
Butter: ½cup(110 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- grated
Onions: ½
Parsley: 1sprig
Carrots: 3
Celery: 2ribs
Onions: 1
Brandy: 1.7oz(50 g)
Water: 8 ½glasses(2 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1
Tomato paste: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Shrimps: 20- Argentina

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Shrimp risotto is a first course dish that captivates with its refined flavor, enhancing the delicate sweetness of the shrimp. Just a few ingredients, expertly balanced, are enough to create a dish that won't go unnoticed. The secret? A stock made from the shrimp leftovers, used to cook the rice and give it an intense and irresistible taste. The final touch comes with the shrimp sautéed in butter, which during the stirring blend with the rice, giving it a velvety creaminess. Perfect for a family lunch, a dinner with friends, or a special occasion, this risotto is a real delight that will hit the mark on the first taste.
Discover here other variations of this seafood risotto:
To prepare the shrimp risotto, first, start with the cleaning of the shrimp . Remove the heads, peel off the shell , and remove the intestine . Set aside both the heads and shells to prepare the shrimp stock. Keep aside 4 whole shrimps, cut the rest into 1/2-inch pieces . Collect everything in a bowl and leave them in the refrigerator until use.
Slice the carrots into 1/2-inch thick pieces , cut the onions into wedges , and chop the celery into 1/2-inch pieces .
Collect all the vegetables in a bowl and add a clove of garlic . Heat oil in a pot, add the vegetables and let them brown for a few minutes. Then add the tomato paste and cook for 4-5 minutes.
Put the shrimp scraps in the pot and cook for another 5 minutes. Deglaze with brandy . Once all the alcohol has evaporated, pour very cold water until the pot's contents are completely covered. Lower the heat and cook for about 60 minutes.
Strain everything through a sieve . Peel and finely chop half an onion .
Put the rice in the pot , season with salt , and toast for a few minutes. Add the onion, wait another minute, and deglaze with white wine , allowing all the alcohol to evaporate.
Cook the rice by moistening it with shrimp stock, adding a ladle each time the previous one is absorbed . Meanwhile, melt the butter in a pan and add the shrimp pieces , season with salt , and sauté for about 3 minutes.
In the same pan, sauté the whole shrimps set aside earlier . When the rice is cooked, turn off the heat, add the shrimp pieces , and the butter .
Add the parmesan and stir. Plate the risotto, add a whole shrimp on top, and finish with freshly chopped parsley . The shrimp risotto is ready to be served .
It is best to consume the shrimp risotto when freshly made, but if there are leftovers, you can store it in the refrigerator in a closed container for up to 1 day. You can prepare the main ingredients in advance. For example, the shrimp stock can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 3 days. Once cleaned, the shrimps can also be stored by placing them on a tray lined with absorbent paper and covering with plastic wrap. This way, they can be kept in the refrigerator for 2 days.
For a fresh and aromatic touch, add grated lemon or orange zest towards the end of the risotto's cooking, or deglaze with orange juice. The citrus will enrich the dish with lively notes, balancing the sweetness of the shrimp. You can use spices to your liking. For the stock, you can also use champignon mushrooms and leeks.

