name:
Puff Pastry Roses
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 4 ½cups(575 g)- (W280)
Whole milk: 0.7cup(160 g)- cold
Water: 0.7cup(160 g)- cold
Sugar: 5 ½tbsp(70 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.75oz(23 g)
Fine salt: 2 ¼tsp(13 g)
Butter: 1 ½cup(350 g)- at room temperature
Type 0 flour: 0.6cup(75 g)- (W160)
Butter: 1 ⅓cup(300 g)- softened
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Cardamon: 1tbsp(15 g)- powdered
Fine salt: ¾tsp(4 g)
Eggs: 1
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 18 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + rising times (overnight + about 3 h) and resting times (about 3 h total)

instructions:
Puff pastry roses are delicious individual portions of the torta delle rose puff pastry, a variant of the original recipe made with leavened puff pastry . The butter-based filling is reminiscent of cinnamon rolls but in this case, it is flavored with cardamom, giving the dessert an intense and spicy aroma: a version proposed by Laura Onofrio and Matteo Andreotti of "Clandestino non esiste," a contemporary-style bakery in Milan, which will win you over with its incredibly flaky layers! The secret lies in the laminating, a fundamental pastry technique also used for making Croissant , based on alternating folds and rests. Arm yourself with patience, then, and don't stop here... with the same puff pastry dough, you can also make the famous pain au chocolat for a truly unforgettable breakfast!
To prepare the puff pastry roses, first crumble the fresh yeast in a bowl , then add the cold milk and water . Mix with a whisk to dissolve the yeast .
Pour the mixture into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook , then add the flour and sugar .
Also add the salt and work at low speed for 5 minutes . The dough should not be too tight .
Work the dough on the work surface until you form a smooth ball , then place it in a bowl and cover with several layers of plastic wrap . Let it rise in the refrigerator overnight.
Now prepare the butter for laminating: in a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, add the flour and softened butter . Mix until you get a homogeneous mixture, being careful not to overwork it .
Transfer the mixture onto a sheet of parchment paper , cover with another sheet of parchment paper and roll it out with a rolling pin to form a square about 8x8 inches, approximately 0.4 inch thick . Place this in the refrigerator to rest as well.
The next morning, take the risen dough and roll it out on a lightly floured surface to obtain a rectangular shape twice the length of the butter square . Place the butter square in the center of the rectangle .
Fold the two side flaps towards the center to cover the butter square, taking care to align the dough edges exactly in the middle . Roll the pastry again with the rolling pin in the direction of the folds, starting with small pressures to avoid breaking the butter inside. You should obtain another rectangle .
At this point, proceed with a three-fold by folding the side flaps towards the center and aligning them . With a sharp knife, score the long sides of the rectangle obtained . Transfer the pastry to a tray, cover with plastic wrap , and cool in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
After this time, take the dough and make another three-fold , then place it on the tray and let it rest for another 30 minutes in the refrigerator, still covered with plastic wrap. After this time, repeat the same operation for the third and final time, but let it rest in the refrigerator for about 1.5-2 hours.
Focus on the filling: place the softened butter in a bowl , then add the salt and powdered cardamom .
Also add the sugar and mix everything with a spatula until you get a homogeneous mixture . Set aside at room temperature.
After the cooling time, take the pastry and roll it out with the rolling pin to form a rectangle about 12x16 inches, approximately 0.2 inch thick. Cover the surface with the butter and cardamom cream, spreading it with a spatula . At this point, divide the rectangle lengthwise and cut it into strips about 6x2 inches ; you should obtain 16 strips of pastry.
Roll each strip to form swirls . Place the swirls in a well-buttered muffin tin, making sure to space them apart . Let rise in the switched-off oven with the light on for about 3 hours, occasionally spraying them with a little water to prevent the surface from drying out.
Meanwhile, pour the egg, yolk, and cream into a small bowl , add the salt , and mix .
After the rising time, brush the swirls with the cream mixture and bake in a preheated fan oven at 355°F for about 6 minutes, then insert a ball of foil in the door to keep it slightly open and continue baking for another 12 minutes or so. When they are nicely golden, remove them from the oven and serve your beautiful puff pastry roses !
Puff pastry roses can be stored at room temperature for 1-2 days, covered with a dome. It's recommended to warm them slightly in the oven before serving.
You can freeze the swirls raw before the final rise; let them thaw in the refrigerator and, once back to room temperature, proceed with the recipe.
To mix the butter and cardamom cream, you can use a stand mixer with a paddle attachment.

