name:
Basmati rice with salmon, sesame, and spicy sauce
ingredients:
Basmati rice: 1 ¾cup(320 g)
Water: 3cups(700 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Thyme: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Black sesame seeds: to taste
Salmon: 14oz(400 g)
Zucchini: 2.67cups(300 g)
Carrots: 10.6oz(300 g)
Red peppers: 3 ¼cups(300 g)
Fresh ginger: 3.3tbsp(20 g)
Soy sauce: 3.3tbsp(50 g)
Sunflower seed oil: ½cup(120 g)
Egg yolks: 2- at room temperature
Lemon juice: ½
Sriracha sauce: 2tsp
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Basmati rice with salmon, sesame, and spicy sauce is a single dish with exotic flavors, perfect for those who love to explore bold culinary combinations. The sriracha sauce, with its balance of spicy and sweet-and-sour notes, stands out for its chili, garlic, and vinegar presence. A homemade mayonnaise with an enticing flavor is made with this sauce, perfect for enhancing the delicate taste of salmon and crispy stir-fried vegetables. The basmati rice perfectly absorbs these seasonings, while the black sesame seeds offer a pleasant crunch and a delicate toasted note that enriches every bite. Let yourself be captivated by the fascinating mix of ingredients in basmati rice with salmon, sesame, and spicy sauce and serve a dish with a unique flavor!
Here are some other tempting variations of this recipe:

To prepare basmati rice with salmon, sesame, and spicy sauce, first, heat the water you will use to cook the rice. Heat the olive oil in a large pot, add half an onion and a crushed garlic clove and let it infuse. Remove the garlic and onion and pour in the basmati rice .
Toast the rice, stirring frequently , and when it is very hot, add thyme and rosemary tied with a string . Pour in the boiling water , cover with a lid, and lower the heat. Cook the rice following the time indicated on the package, about 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, prepare the mayonnaise: in a bowl, combine the room temperature egg yolks and lemon juice . Begin to beat the yolks with electric whisks and when they have thickened, slowly pour in the sunflower oil and incorporate it little by little until fully absorbed.
Once the oil is finished, add the salt and continue to emulsify. When the mayonnaise is ready , add the sriracha sauce and mix with a spatula .
Set the mayonnaise aside . Meanwhile, the rice will have finished cooking , remove the aromatic bundle and set it aside. Take care of the vegetables: grate the garlic .
Do the same with the zucchini and carrots using a large-hole grater . Clean the peppers and cut them into strips .
In a non-stick pan, add seed oil and chopped garlic , let it infuse for a few minutes, then add the peppers and other grated vegetables .
Sauté everything together for 5 minutes and add salt . Add the rice and toss it with the vegetables. At the end of cooking, turn off the heat and add the soy sauce , mixing everything together.
Keep it warm and take care of the salmon: cut the fish into cubes , in a pan pour a dash of oil and a bundle of thyme and rosemary .
Add the fish cubes and sauté them for about 5 minutes , then add salt . On a serving plate, pour the rice .
Add the pan-fried salmon cubes , season with the homemade mayonnaise, and finish with black sesame seeds . Your basmati rice with salmon, sesame, and spicy sauce is ready to be served!
Basmati rice with salmon, sesame, and spicy sauce can be stored in the refrigerator and consumed within 1-2 days at most.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can make a soffritto to cook the rice by chopping the garlic and onion instead of removing them after using them to flavor the oil.
For a milder taste, you can add just one teaspoon of sriracha sauce to the mayonnaise.

