name:
Eggs in Purgatory
ingredients:
Eggs: 4
Peeled tomatoes: 1 ⅓cup(320 g)
Onions: ½
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
This dish is so saucy that dunking is a must... today we're making eggs in purgatory together, a main course that's perfect for dinner, ideal for the whole family! A recipe that combines simple yet flavorful ingredients, which we all easily have at home and help us on days when there's little time or desire to cook. The yolk mixing with the sauce is a true delight, so get some good rustic bread and serve it slightly toasted to beautifully finish the dish. Eggs in purgatory are easy and quick to make, and can be personalized with olives, capers, or cheese. Prepare them yourself and be won over by their simple yet never dull taste!
Here are more quick egg recipes:

To prepare the eggs in purgatory, first pour a swirl of oil and a finely chopped onion into a pan . Let it gently sauté for 8 to 10 minutes until it becomes soft and translucent . Meanwhile, crush the peeled tomatoes with your hands .
When the onion is ready, add the peeled tomatoes to the pan , then salt and mix .
Cover with a lid and let it cook on low heat for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove the lid, make as many wells in the sauce as there are eggs you want to add, in this case 4; use a spoon or wooden ladle to make the wells and break the eggs into them . For convenience, you can also crack them into a small bowl first and then let them slide into the pan.
Season with a pinch of salt and pepper , cover again and, still at a gentle temperature, cook for another 4 to 5 minutes. Check the eggs to ensure the cooking does not exceed your desired level and that the yolk remains soft. Finish with hand-torn basil . Serve your eggs in purgatory with bread for dunking!
It is recommended to consume the eggs in purgatory as soon as they're made.
For a nicer visual effect, choose small eggs. Along with the onion, you can also add chopped chili pepper.

