name:
Veal and Speck Rolls
ingredients:
Sliced veal: 12- thin
Speck: 7oz(200 g)
Provola cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Red onions: 1
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Parsley: to taste- dry
Bay leaves: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cherry tomatoes: 10
Lamb's lettuce: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The veal and speck rolls are a really tasty main course of meat! With each bite, you'll savor the intense and smoky flavor of the speck that blends with a heart of gooey provola, all wrapped in tender veal slices. The breadcrumbs also add a rustic touch, and after baking, create a crispy and fragrant crust on the outside. To keep them together, we used long wooden skewers, threading the rolls alternating with slices of red onion and bay leaves: this way you'll get particularly tasty and savory skewers, perfect to serve with a side of potatoes or seasonal vegetables for a family dinner or a meal with your friends!
After tasting the veal and speck rolls, don't miss out on these variants as well:

To prepare the veal and speck rolls, first cut the provola into slices and then into small cubes. Pour the breadcrumbs into a bowl and season with oil , salt, and pepper .
Add the dried parsley as well and mix to combine the ingredients . Pour the seasoned breadcrumbs onto a tray. At this point, gently pound the veal slices with a meat tenderizer .
Place two slices of speck on each slice of meat , then cover with the breadcrumbs and add a cube of provola .
First, fold over the long sides of the slice, then roll it up starting from the short side . Roll the rolls in the breadcrumbs, ensuring all sides are covered .
Cut the onion into fairly thick slices . Assemble the skewers by threading onto the wooden skewers in this order: onion, bay leaf , roll .
Continue with more onion, bay leaf, and roll. Finish with another bay leaf and a slice of onion . Place the skewers on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and drizzle them with a bit of oil . Bake in the oven at 350°F for 25 minutes. Then increase the temperature to 400°F and continue baking for another 5 minutes on grill mode. Remove from the oven and let them cool slightly: your veal and speck rolls are ready to be enjoyed. Serve them with a fresh salad of lamb's lettuce and cherry tomatoes !
The veal and speck rolls can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to 2 days. Before serving, you can reheat them in the oven for a few minutes at 350°F, perhaps adding a drizzle of oil.
You can customize the filling of the veal and speck rolls, for example by substituting the provola with other stringy cheeses or the speck with prosciutto, pancetta, or bresaola.

