name:
Potato Pancakes
ingredients:
White potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- Kennebec
Type 00 flour: 2tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste- (optional)
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
The 'tortel di patate' is a dish that embodies the culinary tradition of Trentino Alto Adige, where the white-fleshed potatoes, mainly cultivated in Val di Non, are the main ingredient. Every family has its own version of the 'tortel', often enhancing it with a personal touch like adding an egg or a bit of milk. This dish has roots in the kitchens of the past, when resources were limited, and there was a need to create hearty and energy-rich meals for large families. Despite the name, which might be misleading, the 'tortel' is neither a stuffed pasta nor a fried dessert, but a crispy and tasty savory pancake, prepared with few but flavorful ingredients. Generally, the 'tortel' is served as an appetizer, accompanied by a generous platter of local cold cuts and cheeses, cabbage salad, borlotti beans, and a good glass of red wine. For those seeking a more refined pairing, potato 'tortel' pairs perfectly with alpine cheeses and lingonberry jam. A simple yet rich-in-history dish that tells the authenticity of Trentino cuisine.
Let yourself be tempted by these specialties of Trentino-Alto Adige:

To make potato 'tortel', start by peeling the white potatoes . Grate them with a coarse grater .
Transfer the grated potatoes to a strainer to remove the water content ; the mixture should be dry. Now add the flour .
Salt and pepper and mix with a spoon to get a homogeneous dough. Immediately cook the 'tortel': heat the seed oil in a pot to a temperature of 340°F. Take a spoonful of dough .
Using another spoon let the 'tortel' dough slide into the hot oil and fry until golden . Immerse a few pieces at a time to prevent the oil temperature from dropping.
Drain the 'tortel' on a tray lined with absorbent paper . Continue this way until the dough is finished; with these amounts, you will get about 30 'tortel' . Serve your 'tortel' immediately, accompanied by a platter of cold cuts and cheeses !
As with all fried foods, it is recommended to consume the potato 'tortel' immediately.
To grate the 'tortel', you can also use the mixer; in this case, the grain will be slightly different.
We recommend using white potatoes and not yellow ones, whose flesh would be too compact.
One of the typical pairings is serving it with a cabbage salad dressed the old-fashioned way, with caraway seeds, oil, salt, and vinegar.
Tradition has it that the last 'tortel' should be enjoyed as a dessert: once the children sprinkled it with sugar, today it is preferred with a spoonful of lingonberry jam!

