name:
Seafood Lasagna
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2.3cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3
Spinach: 3.3cups(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (cleaned, with shell)
Shrimps: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to clean)
Calamari (squid): 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to clean)
Tomato purée: 1.7cups(400 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
White wine: 1oz(30 g)
Basil: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare your seafood lasagna, start with the spinach: plunge them into boiling salted water and let them soften . Once ready, drain them with a slotted spoon and immediately transfer them to cold water to stop the cooking and keep the color vivid .
Squeeze them well and blend together with the eggs until you get a smooth cream . Place the flour in a mound on the work surface and pour the green mixture of eggs and blended spinach into the center . Begin incorporating the flour with a fork .
Knead with your hands until you form a smooth and elastic dough ball . Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the béchamel: melt the butter in a saucepan , add the flour , and stir until you form the roux.
Gradually add the hot milk and continue to stir over the heat until you obtain a creamy sauce , then season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Now move on to the seafood filling: place the How to Clean and Open Mussels in a large pot .
Cover with the lid and let them open over high heat, it will take 5-8 minutes. Drain them as they open and carefully filter their liquid .
Finally, separate the shells from the mollusks ; you will obtain about 250 grams (8.8 oz). Clean the squid by gently removing the head and discarding the internal bone , then cut them into regular rings ; you will obtain about 300 grams (10.6 oz).
In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil with parsley stems and 2 whole garlic cloves , then add the squid and let them season. Deglaze with white wine . Once evaporated, add the tomato passata .
Pour a ladle of the filtered mussel liquid and scent with some basil leaves. Cook gently for 20 minutes, until the sauce reduces and becomes thick . Meanwhile, How to clean shrimp : remove the head .
Remove the shell and discard the intestine ; you will get about 300 grams (10.6 oz) of cleaned shrimp, set them aside and continue with the preparation. Take the fresh green pasta and first roll it out with the rolling pin .
Then pass it through the machine starting from the widest thickness until you obtain a thin sheet . Cut into regular rectangles and blanch them in salted water for a few seconds .
Drain the sheets and transfer them to a cloth to dry . When the squid sauce is ready, remove the garlic and parsley stems , then add the shrimp .
As soon as they change color, also add the shelled mussels and mix well to combine everything . Finally, adjust the salt and pepper. At this point, you can assemble your lasagna: spread a thin layer of béchamel on the bottom of the baking dish .
Lay down the first layer of green pasta and cover with more béchamel . Add a ladle of seafood filling and a sprinkle of chopped parsley .
Continue alternating pasta, béchamel, and sauce . Finish with a generous layer of filling , then bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 30 minutes, until the surface is golden and slightly gratinated . Let rest for a few minutes before serving: your seafood lasagna is ready to be enjoyed!
Seafood lasagna can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days after cooking and cooling.
You can freeze it after cooking if all the ingredients used are fresh.
If you use dry lasagna sheets, add a bit more béchamel to each layer and let the sauce thicken less: they will absorb more liquid during cooking. Cook them for a few more minutes, covering the dish with a sheet of aluminum foil, so the sheets will soften perfectly without drying out on the surface.

