name:
Apple and Caramel Tart
ingredients:
Butter: ⅔cup(150 g)- soft
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Fine salt: 0.3tsp(2 g)
Eggs: 1.75oz(50 g)- (1 medium)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Almond flour: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Water: 0.3cup(80 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Golden delicious apples: 1.75lbs(800 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time for the base

instructions:
To prepare the apple and caramel tart, pour the butter, sugar , and salt into a bowl, knead by hand then add the egg .
Now incorporate the flours , baking powder , and cinnamon .
Knead to obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture , form a dough ball, wrap it in plastic wrap, and place it in the fridge for 1 hour . Roll out the pastry with a rolling pin to a thickness of 1/8 inch.
Place a 9-inch baking pan on top of the dough and trim a disc slightly larger than the pan, so as to cover the bottom and sides . Insert the pastry into the buttered mold and make it adhere well .
Trim the edge with a knife to lower it , prick the bottom , bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 15 minutes. Once cooked, remove from the oven and let cool .
Prepare the apples: peel and cut them into wedges , place them on a baking dish lined with parchment paper .
Set aside and prepare the caramel: in a saucepan pour the sugar , distributing it well on the bottom, and heat over moderate heat, meanwhile, heat the water until it reaches a boil. Stir to break up the crystals and make it uniform.
Once ready, pour the boiling water in two parts , stir to mix, then turn off the heat and incorporate the butter . Pour the caramel over the apples .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 30-40 minutes . Remove from the oven and separate the caramel from the apples .
Now arrange the apples on the pastry in a radial pattern. Then heat the caramel and brush it over the apples . The apple and caramel tart is ready; you can embellish it as you wish with gold leaves .
Store the apple and caramel tart in a cool place or in the refrigerator, covered, for about 3 days. We do not recommend freezing.
Almond flour makes the pastry softer, so it needs to rest in the fridge for at least 1 hour. With the leftover pastry, you can prepare delicious and crumbly cookies.

