name:
Pasta with Romanesco broccoli and spinach
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)- to grate
Romanesco broccoli: 1.4lbs(650 g)- (to clean)
Spinach: 1cup(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Genuine and super creamy, the pasta with Romanesco broccoli is a first course that wins over even the most skeptical palates thanks to its perfect balance of flavors and colors. The star is a velvety vegetable cream with a bright green color, obtained by blending the Romanesco broccoli with fresh baby spinach leaves, for a tasty and nutritious base. A touch of sweet paprika adds a spicy and enveloping note, enhancing the taste of the seasoning without overpowering it. To finish, a generous sprinkle of grated cheese gives the pasta with Romanesco broccoli and spinach an extra touch, truly worth trying!
Did our pasta with Romanesco broccoli convince you? Try these variations too:

To prepare pasta with Romanesco broccoli and spinach, first clean the broccoli by removing the leaves and the base. Cut the entire broccoli into large pieces, including the central stalk . Cook in boiling salted water for 15 minutes .
After this time, heat a swirl of oil with a garlic clove in a pan . Drain the cooked broccoli here, being careful to save the cooking water , then remove the garlic .
Season with sweet paprika , salt, and pepper, and sauté for just a few moments, just enough to flavor the broccoli . Transfer the broccoli to a tall and narrow container .
Add part of the cleaned spinach leaves , the salt , and a ladle of the broccoli cooking water .
Blend everything with an immersion blender , then add the remaining spinach and blend again until you get a smooth and lump-free cream . Cook the linguine in the broccoli cooking water ; you will need to drain them 4 minutes before the cooking time indicated on the package.
In the meantime, pour the broccoli and spinach cream into the pan along with a ladle of pasta cooking water . Drain the pasta here and finish cooking in the pan, adding more water if needed. Once ready, turn off the heat and stir in the grated cheese .
Plate the linguine with the vegetable cream and grated cheese to taste . Your pasta with Romanesco broccoli and spinach is ready to be enjoyed !
It's recommended to consume the pasta with Romanesco broccoli and spinach immediately.
You can prepare the Romanesco broccoli and spinach cream in advance and store it in the fridge, or freeze it.
Replace the sweet paprika with smoked paprika or a pinch of chili pepper for a more intense flavor!
You can use the broccoli cleaning scraps to prepare a vegetable broth.

