name:
Baked Cutlets
ingredients:
Sliced veal: 1.4lbs(650 g)
Milk: 1cup(250 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1.67cups(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(115 g)
Eggs: 3
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste

info:
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Note + the marinating time in the refrigerator (30 min.)

instructions:
Baked cutlets are the perfect second course for those looking for a healthier and lighter alternative to the classic fried cutlet . The veal slices are marinated with milk, which allows the meat to remain tender, while the external breading made of eggs, flour, and breadcrumbs becomes crispy and golden. A simple yet delicious recipe, ideal for a family lunch or a casual dinner with friends, whether young or old! Additionally, baked cutlets are suitable for those with little cooking experience because they are easy and quick to prepare.
Also try the baked chicken cutlets variant and other tasty cutlet recipes:

To prepare the baked cutlets, first place the slices of meat in a large bowl and pour the milk over them . Cover with plastic wrap and let rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, crack the eggs into a plate, add the salt, and beat them with a fork .
After the marinating time, drain the slices of meat from the milk and pass them in the flour , shaking them gently to remove the excess. Then dip them in the beaten eggs and finally coat them with breadcrumbs .
Place the slices on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, season with salt, and drizzle both sides with oil . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 30 minutes on the middle rack, turning the cutlets halfway through cooking . Your baked cutlets are ready to be served, perhaps accompanied by some salad, a slice of lemon, and roasted potatoes !
Baked cutlets can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for 1-2 days. Before consuming, it is recommended to heat them in the oven at 356°F for a few minutes.
If desired, you can flavor the breading with aromatic herbs such as parsley, thyme, or rosemary. To make it tastier, you can add grated Parmesan or pecorino to the breadcrumbs!
Cow's milk can be replaced with plant-based milk.
With the leftover eggs and breadcrumbs, you can make delicious meatballs with plenty of Parmesan in the mixture!

