name:
Meat Skewers
ingredients:
Veal: 1.1lbs(500 g)- meat
Sausage: 12.3oz(350 g)
Pancetta tesa: 8.8oz(250 g)
Yellow peppers: 1
Red peppers: 1
Green peppers: 1
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Sunflower seed oil: to taste
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Have you ever tried making meat skewers by yourself? Loved by both adults and children, they are a main course that is very easy to prepare and here we show you how! In this recipe, we offer you a version made with veal, bacon, and sausage: the meat chunks alternate with the sweetness of bell peppers in an appetizing play of colors, flavors, and textures. Convenient to cook in a pan, meat skewers are very versatile and can be customized to your liking by replacing or adding the ingredients you prefer... accompany them with some tasty sauces, and they will be perfect for spending a joyful evening!
Don't miss out on these tasty skewer recipes:

To prepare the meat skewers, first remove the casing from the sausage and cut it into pieces about 1 1/4 inches . Cut the veal meat into slices first and then into cubes with 1 1/4-inch sides .
Also cut the bacon into 1 1/4-inch pieces . Move on to the bell peppers: remove the stem and the internal filaments .
Cut the bell peppers into pieces the same size as the meat . Now assemble the skewers by threading onto the skewers first a piece of bell pepper, then a piece of sausage, and a piece of bacon .
Continue alternating the colors of the bell peppers and the meat . Close the skewer with a piece of bell pepper and salt .
In a pan, heat a drizzle of sunflower oil, then place the skewers and brown them on all sides. Add the rosemary and deglaze with white wine .
Once all the alcohol has evaporated, remove the rosemary and cover with a lid . Lower the heat to the minimum and cook for 15 minutes. Your meat skewers are ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the meat skewers as soon as they are ready; if necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for 1-2 days. Before serving, reheat them in a pan over low heat or in the oven covered with a sheet of aluminum foil to prevent them from drying out.
Not just bell peppers: you can enrich the meat skewers with zucchini, onions, or eggplants cut into cubes, for example!
If you wish, you can flavor the meat with a marinade of oil, lemon, garlic, and aromatic herbs to enhance its taste before cooking it.
You can accompany the skewers with BBQ sauce, mayonnaise, or yogurt sauce.

