name:
Sausage with red wine and polenta
ingredients:
Sausage: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Type 00 flour: to taste
Celery: 1- stem
Carrots: 1
White onions: 1
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Red wine: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Sage: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Juniper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fioretto corn flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Sausage with red wine and polenta is a hearty dish with a rustic and enveloping character, perfect for those who love bold flavors and traditional cuisine. The long cooking of the sausage in red wine gives it an intense and aromatic flavor. The polenta , soft and velvety, perfectly complements the sauce, creating a balance of textures that captivates from the first bite. It's ideal for cold days when you crave something warm and hearty. With this recipe, you'll transform a few ingredients into a delicious dish!
If you're looking for more recipes with polenta, don't miss out:
To prepare the sausage with red wine and polenta, first cut the sausage into pieces about 2 inches long . Finely chop the celery and the carrot .
Do the same with the onion . Dredge the sausage in flour and shake off the excess ; the sausage should have just a thin coating of flour.
Heat the oil in a pot, then add the sausage and brown it well over medium-high heat. Remove the sausage from the pot and transfer it to a bowl .
In the same pot, add the butter and once melted, add celery, carrot, and onion . Season with salt and pepper . Sauté for a few minutes.
Return the sausage to the pot and pour in the red wine . Also add the sage and rosemary .
Finally, add a few crushed juniper berries . Cover with a lid and cook over low heat for 45 minutes. Meanwhile, in another pot, boil some water and season with salt .
Sprinkle in the polenta and stir continuously until cooked , which will take 30-40 minutes; check the instructions on the package. Serve the polenta in a deep dish .
Make a well in the center with a spoon and place the sausage there . Your sausage with red wine and polenta is ready to be enjoyed .
The sausage with red wine can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for 1-2 days. It's advisable to store the polenta and sausage separately to best maintain their textures.
For a more rustic base, instead of the classic soffritto of carrots, celery, and onion, you can use coarsely chopped carrots and borettane onions. For an even bolder flavor, you can add porcini mushrooms. To vary the base, instead of classic polenta, you can opt for polenta taragna.

