name:
Tuscan Pancotto
ingredients:
Stale bread: 9oz(250 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 4spoonfuls- (to grate)
Garlic: 1clove
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
The Tuscan pancotto is a nutritious and genuine first course that originates as a traditional farmer's leftover recipe: the main ingredient, in fact, is stale bread which, with a few simple steps, is transformed into a hearty soup with a rich and full-bodied flavor. The enveloping consistency of this specialty is achieved by cooking the bread until it becomes soft and almost creamy, then flavored with the addition of extra virgin olive oil, grated Parmesan cheese, and garlic. Like the famous pappa al pomodoro , ribollita , or panzanella , pancotto is a anti-waste recipe that allows you to use up leftover bread (the original version features the typical unsalted Tuscan bread)... it can also become a great last-minute dinner idea when you have little time and want to bring a comforting and appetizing dish to the table!
Also, discover these tasty variations of pancotto:

To prepare the Tuscan pancotto, cut the stale bread first into slices and then into cubes . Bring the water to a boil in a pot, then salt it and add the bread .
Add a clove of garlic and stir . Cook for about 15 minutes or until the bread has softened. After this time, turn off the heat and season with the oil .
Flavor with the grated Parmesan cheese and stir one last time . Plate and garnish with more grated Parmesan cheese .
Finally, finish with a drizzle of oil and a grind of pepper . Your pancotto is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the Tuscan pancotto as soon as it is ready; if necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for a maximum of 1-2 days.
The Tuscan pancotto is a versatile recipe that lends itself to many interpretations based on tastes and regional traditions: you can enrich it with vegetables like Swiss chard or kale, or with legumes or even beaten eggs.
For a more intense flavor, you can replace the water with meat broth.

