name:
Squid Ink Ravioli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Cuttlefish ink: 2tbsp(30 g)
Octopi: 8.8oz(250 g)- (already cleaned)
Yellow potatoes: 6.4oz(180 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
White pepper: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Red mullet: 3- (already gutted)
Peeled tomatoes: ⅔cup(150 g)
Wild fennel: 3tsp(15 g)
Marjoram: 20tsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: 0.9tsp(5 g)
Marjoram: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + resting times (50 min. total)

instructions:
Black is not only a timeless classic in fashion but also in cooking... and it makes a striking appearance on the table! Our squid ink ravioli are the epitome of culinary elegance. The fresh egg pasta , embellished with squid ink, is adorned with a deep and intriguing color, accompanied by a delicate marine aftertaste. The heart of the ravioli hides a rich filling made of cuttlefish and potatoes, enhanced with a pleasant spicy note. To complete this symphony of flavors, an irresistible dressing: barely seared red mullet fillets and a flavorful sauce, prepared with the scraps of the red mullet, which transform into a concentrate of aromas. These squid ink ravioli will be perfect for a special dinner, where black becomes the color of taste and style!
Don't miss these variations of first courses with squid ink:

To prepare the squid ink ravioli, start with the fresh egg pasta: pour the flour onto a work surface, create a well in the center and pour the eggs into it . Add the squid ink and mix with a fork to incorporate all the flour .
Continue kneading by hand until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough . Cover with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
Prepare the filling: boil the potatoes in water for about 30 minutes, or until soft. Cut the cleaned cuttlefish into small cubes . In a pan, heat some oil with garlic and chili pepper .
Add the chopped cuttlefish and cook for 20 minutes over moderate heat with a lid. Once cooked, remove the garlic and chili pepper . When the potatoes are boiled, mash them with a potato masher .
Combine the cooked cuttlefish in the same bowl where you collected the mashed potatoes , then season with chopped parsley, a pinch of salt, and pepper . Mix to combine and let rest in the refrigerator for 10 minutes .
Clean the red mullets: remove the heads , obtain the fillets , and remove the bones .
Cut the cleaned fillets into diamond shapes and season with salt. Place the red mullet cleaning scraps in a pot, add some oil and toast for about 4 minutes . Scent with marjoram and wild fennel .
Add the peeled tomatoes , a glass of water , salt , and pepper. Cook for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Meanwhile, heat some oil in a pan and place the red mullets with the skin side down . When the skin is well browned, turn them over and finish cooking . At this point, the sauce will be ready .
Pass the sauce through a food mill , then strain the mixture through a sieve and pour the obtained sauce into a saucepan. Let the sauce reduce for about 20 minutes.
Take the dough, divide it into smaller portions, and work one at a time, leaving the others covered with plastic wrap to prevent them from drying out. Dust the first portion of dough with flour , then pass it through a pasta machine to thin it , starting from the thickest setting until you get sheets about 1/16 inch thick .
Moisten a sheet by brushing it with water , then pipe well-spaced mounds of filling; you can use a piping bag or two spoons .
Cover with another sheet , making sure it adheres well around the filling ; if you have a smaller pastry cutter, you can use it to define the shape and remove air from the filling. Cut out the ravioli using a 2-inch diameter cutter .
With these quantities, you will get around 40 ravioli ; you can knead the scraps and roll them out again . Once all the ravioli are ready, place them in the refrigerator to rest for 10 minutes. Meanwhile, bring a pot of salted water to a boil. After the resting time, boil the ravioli for about 5 minutes .
Once drained, plate the ravioli, adding the seared red mullet fillets , the fish sauce , marjoram leaves, and fennel. The squid ink ravioli are ready to be served !
We recommend consuming the squid ink ravioli immediately.
You can freeze the uncooked ravioli by placing them on a tray, well-spaced, and let them harden in the freezer. Once hardened, store them in freezer bags for more convenient storage.
As an alternative to marjoram and fennel, you can use parsley.

