name:
Coconut Milk and Curry Chicken
ingredients:
Coconut milk: 1.7cups(400 g)
Fresh ginger: 0.7oz(20 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Lemongrass: 1- stem
Coarse salt: 1spoonful
Ground pepper: 1spoonful
Lime: 1- (juice and zest)
Brown sugar: 2tsp(10 g)
Chicken breast: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Rice flour: 2tbsp(30 g)
Thai green curry: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Vegetable oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Chives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
If you also enjoy experimenting in the kitchen and discovering new culinary adventures, the recipe for coconut milk and curry chicken is the perfect preparation for you: a skillful mix of exotic spices and local aromas that together create an explosion of flavors that will conquer you at the first taste. All seasoned with a special coconut milk broth where sour, sweet, and spicy unite in a harmonious dance of flavors. If you are among the lovers of curry chicken , this main course will be an excellent version to test and add to your ethnic menus. If instead, you are among the more skeptical traditionalists, we challenge you to open up to new horizons of taste... we are sure that coconut milk and curry chicken will break down all your barriers in one bite!
To make coconut milk and curry chicken, start by preparing the broth: take a fresh chili pepper, remove the stem, and cut it in half while keeping the seeds inside . Then, peel the ginger with a vegetable peeler , remove the base of the lemongrass, and cut the stalk into three parts .
In a pot, pour the coconut milk , season it with coarse salt , and peppercorns .
Add the brown sugar and fresh ginger ; for a more intense flavor, you can cut it into slices. Also, add the fresh chili pepper without the seeds
Add the lemongrass , then season with the zest of the previously washed and dried lime , and then add its juice . Let the broth cook for about half an hour from boiling. Then turn off the heat. When you pour it over the chicken, it will need to be filtered.
Cut the chicken breast into cubes , then coat it with rice flour and shake it in a strainer to remove the excess flour . Now cut the chili pepper into thin strips, which will be used for cooking the chicken .
Heat a wok well, and when it is very hot, pour in the vegetable oil, season it with the freshly cut chili pepper , squeeze in the garlic clove , and then add the floured chicken cubes .
Brown, stirring for about 1 minute, then season with green Thai curry , sauté the chicken for another 2-3 minutes , and then drizzle with the coconut milk broth, ensuring to strain it with a colander .
Cook the chicken for 5 minutes to thicken the sauce, then finish by seasoning with chopped chives . The coconut milk and curry chicken is ready to be enjoyed hot!
Store the coconut milk and curry chicken in the refrigerator for 1-2 days at most. Freezing is not recommended.
Green Thai curry is green because it contains dried lime zest, lemongrass, and fenugreek. If you cannot find it, you can use common curry.

