name:
Swordfish Saltimbocca with Artichokes
ingredients:
Swordfish: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Prosciutto crudo: 6slices
Sage: 12leaves
White wine: 1glass
Type 00 flour: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Artichokes: 4
Garlic: 1clove- poached
Mint: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Swordfish saltimbocca with artichokes is a main course that revisits the famous Saltimbocca alla Romana , where swordfish steaks replace the veal slices for a lighter yet equally tasty result. Swordfish meat, in fact, is characterized by a delicate and slightly sweet flavor that pairs perfectly with the saltiness of prosciutto and the fresh aroma of sage. The side dish of mint-sautéed artichokes not only completes the dish but also evokes the flavors of Roman cuisine. Whether it's a family dinner or a special occasion like Christmas festivities, swordfish saltimbocca with artichokes will rise to any occasion!
If you're looking for more recipes with swordfish, don't miss:

To prepare swordfish saltimbocca with artichokes, first focus on the cleaning of the artichokes : remove the tougher outer leaves , peel the more fibrous part of the stem , then cut off the tips with a clean cut .
Cut the artichokes in half and remove the inner choke , then slice them into strips .
Place the artichokes in acidulated water until ready to use . In a pan, add a drizzle of oil, garlic, and mint and sauté for a few minutes, then add the artichokes .
Season with salt and pepper . Sauté for 10 minutes .
Meanwhile, cut the swordfish steak into 6 slices about 0.8 inches thick . Remove the skin and cut them in half .
Lightly flatten the slices with a meat mallet . Place half a slice of prosciutto and a sage leaf on each, then secure with a toothpick .
Flour the saltimbocca on both sides . In a pan, heat the oil, then add the saltimbocca with the prosciutto side down and cook until golden. Turn the saltimbocca and cook briefly on the other side .
At this point, deglaze with white wine and let the alcohol evaporate completely. Plate and finish with grated lemon zest and a few mint leaves. Your swordfish saltimbocca with artichokes is ready to be enjoyed !
Swordfish saltimbocca with artichokes can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for 1-2 days.
You can freeze the assembled saltimbocca and consume them within a month.
If you wish, you can replace the white wine with a mix of orange and lemon juice for a fresh citrus note.
Alternatively, you can serve the swordfish saltimbocca with sautéed Jerusalem artichokes or confit cherry tomatoes!

