name:
Potato Croquettes with caciocavallo cheese
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Breadcrumbs: 2.8cups(80 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- to grate
Eggs: 2
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the cooking time for the potatoes

instructions:
Soft inside and crunchy outside, meatballs are loved in all their tasty variations: in sauce , baked , meat or vegetarian , there's no limit to creativity! The potato croquettes we propose here are inspired by a typical Sicilian recipe characterized by the addition of caciocavallo to Boiled potatoes . If it's true that simplicity always pays off in the kitchen, these golden bites will win you over at the first taste with their texture and the fresh scent of parsley. Easy and quick to prepare thanks to pan cooking, potato croquettes are perfect to serve as an appetizer as an alternative to classic croquettes or Bread patties in a pan , but they will also be great as a vegetarian main course!
Also try stewed meatballs , tasty and wholesome!
To prepare potato croquettes, first boil the potatoes starting from cold water for about 30-40 minutes from boiling until they are soft, checking with the tines of a fork . Meanwhile, grate the caciocavallo with a coarse grater . When the potatoes are cooked, peel them and mash them while still hot into a bowl .
Add the caciocavallo , salt , pepper, and eggs .
Add the breadcrumbs , grated Parmesan , and chopped parsley .
Mix with a fork until you get a homogeneous mixture . Now take small portions of the mixture about 1 oz each and form balls, then lightly flatten them between your palms . As they are ready, place the croquettes on a tray .
Pour about half an inch of oil into a non-stick pan and put it on the stove. When the oil is hot, add the croquettes and brown them on both sides , it will take a few minutes . Drain the potato croquettes on absorbent paper and serve them still hot !
It is recommended to consume the potato croquettes immediately. If you want, you can prepare the mixture a few hours in advance and store it in the refrigerator. Freezing is not recommended.
It is recommended to use aged or semi-aged caciocavallo.
You can flavor the potato croquette mixture with mint leaves instead of parsley!
If you like strong flavors, you can also add a clove of minced garlic.
For a variant with a gooey center, try the recipe for potato and gorgonzola croquettes or cheese croquettes !

