name:
Artichokes and Potatoes in a Pan
ingredients:
Artichokes: 1.9lbs(850 g)- (4 pieces)
Red potatoes: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Garlic: 4cloves
Paprika: ½tsp
Thyme: 2sprigs
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Lemons: 1- (for soaking the artichokes)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Today we present one of the tastiest and easiest side dishes to prepare: artichokes and potatoes in a pan! A combination already tried several times, in the oven-baked version of Artichokes and Potatoes , or in many other recipes, like our potato and artichoke frittata or a delicious Risotto with artichokes and potatoes ! The most difficult part is definitely cleaning the artichokes , but by following our steps you will be able to extract only the most tender and best part of the artichoke without getting pricked. We chose to use red potatoes, which are more suitable for roasting due to their firm flesh. This type tends to break less while cooking. Make artichokes and potatoes in a pan yourself, a tasty and super easy side dish, ideal for accompanying meat or fish main courses on many occasions... like Easter lunch, for example, it will be excellent with lamb! Try other quick and easy side dishes like Catalonia in the pan !
To prepare artichokes and potatoes in a pan, first, clean the artichokes: remove the tougher outer leaves and with a knife cut off the part with the spikes . Peel the stem .
Cut the artichokes in half and remove the internal fuzz . Cut them into wedges ; in total, you will get about 14 oz of cleaned artichokes.
As you go, place them in a bowl full of water, where you have squeezed a lemon . Move on to the potatoes: peel them and cut them in half and then into wedges .
Transfer the potatoes to a large bowl; add the aromatic herbs , half a teaspoon of paprika , and the 4 cloves of garlic . Add salt, pepper, and plenty of oil. Mix everything well.
Heat a large pan, then add the potatoes, distributing them evenly . Cook over medium-high heat for about 30 minutes, stirring as little as possible, so they don't break . After the 30 minutes, drain the artichokes .
Add them to the pan , stir gently , and cook for another 15 minutes until they are soft. Serve the artichokes and potatoes in a pan immediately !
We recommend consuming the artichokes and potatoes in a pan immediately; alternatively, you can store them in the fridge for 2-3 days.
Season with aromatic herbs of your choice! You can use sweet or spicy paprika, or omit it.

