name:
Protein Porridge
ingredients:
Rolled oats: 2cups(160 g)
Soy milk: 1.4cups(320 g)
Water: 1.4cups(320 g)
Bananas: 1
Raspberries: 10
Peanut butter: 2spoonfuls
Chestnut honey: 1spoonful
Poppy seeds: to taste
Fine salt: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
Breakfast is universally considered the most important meal of the day, and opting for a homemade preparation like our protein porridge can offer significant health and wellness benefits. Protein porridge is a particularly healthy and nutritious choice, intended for those who need a higher protein intake in the morning. Our recipe features a skillful mix of ingredients: rolled oats are the base, which we have chosen to sweeten with chestnut honey, giving it an intense flavor that perfectly complements the other elements. Rich and substantial, peanut butter will add an irresistible creamy touch. As with all porridge , the garnish here is made with fresh, genuine fruits. Preparing protein porridge at home allows you to control the ingredients and avoid adding unwanted sugars and preservatives... try it in our lactose-free version!
Vary your homemade breakfasts with these other delightful porridge recipes:

To prepare the protein porridge, pour the soy milk, water , rolled oats , and salt into a saucepan.
Sweeten with honey and stir, then bring to a near boil ; from that moment count 5 minutes, the porridge will have absorbed the liquids and will be soft but not sticky. Peel the banana and slice it .
Wash and halve the raspberries . Meanwhile, the porridge will be ready, transfer it to a bowl and add the poppy seeds .
Garnish the dishes with raspberries , banana slices, and peanut butter . Your protein porridge is ready to be enjoyed .
It is recommended to consume the protein porridge immediately.
You can add dark chocolate chips or coconut flakes for extra flavor.
The honey can be omitted or replaced with sugar or maple syrup, depending on your taste and dietary needs.
If you prefer, you can substitute soy milk with cow's milk.

