name:
Prawn and Leek Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Shrimps: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to clean)
Carrots: 2
Leeks: 1
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
White wine: 1.4oz(40 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Parsley: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Ground black pepper: to taste
Goatmilk ricotta cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)
Marjoram: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Prawn and leek risotto is an elegant main course with refined flavors, the ideal choice for a candlelit dinner! This risotto combines sophisticated tastes and exquisite ingredients: the red prawns, with their intense color and sweet, delicate flavor, are the undisputed stars of this dish, while the braised leeks, with their soft texture and rich, enveloping flavor, are the perfect complement. Goat ricotta completes the dish by providing the typical creaminess, essential in risottos. Prepare the prawn and leek risotto with love and share it with the person you care about the most for an unforgettable Valentine's Day!
Here are some other enticing ideas for your seafood risottos:
For a vegetarian version, try our leek risotto .

To prepare the prawn and leek risotto, clean the leek by cutting away the green leaves and the base, then peel it to remove the outer layer . Wash and keep the scraps. Wash and cut the carrot into pieces . Finally, clean the prawns and set aside the shells .
In a saucepan, prepare the stock: add the prawn and leek scraps, the carrot, salt, and pepper , a sprig of parsley . Also, add the prawn cleaning scraps, a drizzle of oil, and toast everything on high heat .
Deglaze with wine . Once the alcohol has evaporated, cover with cold water and let it cook for an hour .
Strain the stock through a sieve and keep it warm. Cut the leek into thin slices and let it braise well in butter .
Once golden , set it aside. Cut the prawns into pieces and season them with salt and lemon zest .
Toast the rice dry and start cooking it by adding the stock little by little as it gets absorbed . After about 10 minutes, add the braised leek and finish cooking the rice.
Once the risotto is cooked, stir in the goat ricotta off the heat and scent with marjoram . Serve the risotto by adding the prawns to the plates .
We recommend consuming the prawn and leek risotto immediately; if there are leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator for a day.
If the flavor of goat ricotta is too strong, you can replace it with cow ricotta.

