name:
Paccheri with artichokes, pecorino cream, and anchovies
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Artichokes: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (to clean)
Anchovies: 8fillets- in spicy sauce
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1tuft
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)- (to grate)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.7cup(150 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Nutmeg: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
The paccheri, also known as schiaffoni, are the ideal pasta shape for gathering rich and succulent sauces! If you're looking for a mouth-watering first course, then this is the recipe for you: paccheri with artichokes, pecorino cream, and anchovies. The artichokes, the stars of spring, are sautéed with the addition of anchovies in a spicy sauce for an extra flavor boost. In the dish, they meet the creaminess of the cheese fondue, making everything irresistibly appetizing. Serve paccheri with artichokes, pecorino cream, and anchovies in a spicy sauce, and you'll see everyone racing to finish them!
Don't miss out on these first courses with artichokes:

To prepare the paccheri with artichokes, pecorino cream, and anchovies in spicy sauce, first clean the artichokes : remove the tougher outer leaves until you reach the heart , then cut off the tips and round the base with a paring knife .
Separate the stems from the heads . Peel the stems with a vegetable peeler and slice them into strips. Cut the heads into wedges and remove the choke , then slice them very thinly . Place the cleaned artichokes in acidulated water to prevent them from turning black.
In a pan, gently heat the oil with a clove of garlic, parsley stems , and 4 anchovy fillets in spicy sauce . Once they have dissolved, add the artichokes .
Sauté over high heat for 5-10 minutes, stirring often , until they are softened . In the meantime, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the paccheri for the time indicated on the package .
Drain the paccheri al dente and transfer them to the pan with the artichokes , then toss everything, adding a bit of pasta cooking water if needed . Turn off the heat and flavor with chopped parsley .
Now prepare the fondue: pour the cream, milk, and grated pecorino into a saucepan , then heat for a few minutes, stirring continuously . Once you have obtained a smooth and homogeneous cream, turn off the heat and flavor with nutmeg .
You're ready to plate: spread the pecorino cream on the base of the plate , then add the paccheri with sautéed artichokes and garnish with an anchovy fillet in sauce for each plate .
Emulsify the anchovy sauce in spicy sauce and pour a few drops over the fillet . Your paccheri with artichokes, pecorino cream, and anchovies in spicy sauce are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the paccheri with artichokes, pecorino cream, and anchovies in spicy sauce immediately.
You can flavor the artichokes with Taggiasca olives or garnish the dish with toasted breadcrumbs!

