name:
Stuffed Crepes with Artichokes and Sausage
ingredients:
Eggs: 3
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Artichokes: 4.4lbs(1.5 kg)- (530 g already cleaned)
Sausage: 1lb(450 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)
White wine: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
With the basic recipe for our crepes you can make sweet or savory dishes. Among the latter, very tasty main courses such as ham crepes , or the artichoke and sausage stuffed crepes we offer you today. A rich dish, enriched by a velvety béchamel sauce and provola cheese cubes, perfect for any occasion! The combination of sausage and artichokes always wins us over: two seemingly strong flavors that marry perfectly together! Today we show you how to prepare this perfect main course for Sunday, also ideal for preparing in advance and gratinating only at the last minute, at lunchtime. A fantastic idea for a social moment to share with friends and family!
And if you are lovers of crepes here are other ideas you can't miss:
To prepare the artichoke and sausage stuffed crepes, first melt the butter in a saucepan and let it cool. Break the eggs into a bowl, mix with a whisk , and add the milk . Continue mixing until you obtain a homogeneous mixture. Now add the lukewarm butter and mix.
Sift the flour in two batches directly into the bowl and mix . You should get a smooth, lump-free mixture. At this point, cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rest for at least 30 minutes in the refrigerator.
In the meantime, prepare the béchamel sauce. Heat the milk in a saucepan . Then pour the butter into another saucepan and let it melt over low heat . Add the flour all at once .
Mix vigorously with a whisk to avoid the formation of lumps . Let the roux cook until golden, then slowly add the milk , continuing to stir. Cook, stirring, until the sauce thickens . Transfer to a bowl and cover with plastic wrap.
At this point, take care of cleaning the artichokes. After removing the stem and the outer leaves until you reach the more tender ones , clean the base well and use a knife to cut off a good part of the tip . This way, you will get only the artichoke hearts.
Cut them in half and remove the inner choke. Then cut them into wedges and place them in acidulated water to prevent them from browning .
At this point, the crepe batter will have rested, proceed to cook them. Butter a 20 cm (about 8-inch) non-stick pan and heat it well. Once at temperature, pour a ladle of batter enough to cover the surface of the pan . After about 1 minute over medium-low heat, you should notice a slight browning, the edges will start to lift, so you can flip the first crepe using a spatula . Cook the other side for about 1 minute, waiting for it to color.
Once the first is cooked, transfer it to a serving plate or a cutting board. Repeat this operation until you finish the batter, greasing the pan each time. In the meantime, remove the casing from the sausage by cutting it with a small knife and crumble it by hand .
Sauté the sausage in a pan with a drizzle of oil for 2-3 minutes . Add the well-drained artichokes and sauté for another couple of minutes. At this point, deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate completely.
Salt, pepper, and cook for about 10 minutes over medium-low heat ; in the meantime, cut the provola into cubes . Now it's time to assemble the crepes. Take one, lay it on a cutting board, and add a spoonful of béchamel. Spread it well over the entire surface and add the provola cubes .
Now place the artichoke and sausage filling on one quarter of the crepe , fold the crepe in half , and then in half again to form a triangle .
Gradually arrange the crepes in a baking dish, then add some grated Parmesan. Bake at 200°F (93°C) in grill mode for about 5 minutes, or until the crepes are well gratinated. Remove from the oven, add fresh thyme , and serve immediately .
You can store the stuffed crepes in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. Just heat them before serving.
When pouring the crepe batter into the pan, you must be very quick at spreading the mixture because once it starts cooking, you might have difficulty.
The béchamel sauce, especially if put in the refrigerator, may thicken and become sticky; in this case, just mix it vigorously with a whisk. For an even richer taste, instead of sweet provola, you can use spicy provolone or smoked scamorza.

