name:
Empanadas with Gorgonzola and Leeks
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(210 g)
Water: 2.5oz(70 g)- warm
Lard: 1.75oz(50 g)
White wine vinegar: ¼tbsp(3 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Leeks: 2cups(200 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- spicy
Gorgonzola cheese: 3oz(85 g)- sweet
Dairy cheese: 2.3oz(65 g)- type Branzi
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 18 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 30 min. of dough resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
Would you ever have thought to pair a typical South American street food with the most famous blue cheese from Italy? After the Argentinian Empanadas and tuna empanadas, Chef Matias Perdomo surprises us once again with empanadas with gorgonzola and leeks! The classic crescent-shaped pastries are filled with an innovative filling that combines the intense flavor of leeks with the creaminess of both sweet and spicy gorgonzola... a pleasure to discover, bite after bite, in the company of friends and a cold beer! So you just have to try the empanadas with gorgonzola and leeks and choose your favorite variant.
To make the empanadas with gorgonzola and leeks, first prepare the dough: form a well with the flour on the work surface, then add the lard , salt , and vinegar in the center.
Add the warm water and knead until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture . Form a ball and let the dough rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, you can prepare the filling: clean the leeks and cut them into julienne strips, making sure they are not too long , then place them in a pan with hot oil . Sauté the leeks over medium-high heat for 6-7 minutes until they start to color; they should reduce in volume by about 50%. Salt at the end of cooking .
Transfer the leeks to a bowl and add the diced cheeses: Branzi , sweet gorgonzola, and spicy gorgonzola . Mix well and set aside .
Take the dough and roll it out to a thickness of 1/16 inch; you can use a rolling pin or a pasta machine . Cut out 18 discs with a pastry cutter with a diameter of 4.75 inches . If you are not using them immediately, you can wrap them in plastic wrap and store them in the refrigerator .
Place a dough disc on the work surface and add a spoonful of filling in the center . Fold the disc in half and press the edges with your fingers to seal them , then make some pleats to create the typical rope edge . Alternatively, you can seal the edge by pressing with the tines of a fork.
After forming the empanadas, heat plenty of vegetable oil in a saucepan to a temperature of 320°F. Fry 1 or 2 pieces at a time for 4-5 minutes . Drain the empanadas when they are nicely golden and transfer them to paper towels to remove excess oil. Your empanadas with gorgonzola and leeks are ready to be enjoyed !
The empanadas with gorgonzola and leeks can be stored in the refrigerator for one day and reheated in the oven before serving. If desired, you can prepare the dough discs in advance, seal them with plastic wrap, and store them in the refrigerator for one day.
If you used fresh ingredients, you can freeze the raw empanadas, making sure to cover them well with plastic wrap to prevent the dough from cracking. You can fry the empanadas directly from frozen, but it's preferable to also add a step in the oven to ensure the filling is well heated.
The lard makes the dough particularly crumbly and crispy, but if you wish to make a completely vegetarian version, it can be replaced with the same amount of butter, margarine, olive oil, or vegetable oil according to your taste. The vinegar gives elasticity.
For baking, you can try baking them at 375°F for 15 minutes, adjusting according to your oven's characteristics.

