name:
Linguine with Sausage, Leeks, and Fennel
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Luganega sausage: 0.9lb(400 g)
Leeks: 2cups(200 g)
Beer: 0.3cup(70 g)
Wild fennel: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- (to grate)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Linguine with sausage, leeks, and fennel are a rustic and appetizing first course, perfect for those who love bold flavors. Very easy to prepare, it is the ideal choice when you want to bring a dish to the table that is different from the usual but without too many complications in the kitchen. The contrast that is created between the saltiness of the sausage and the sweetness of the leek is enhanced by the aromatic freshness of the wild fennel, creating a dish with an enticing taste. Perfect for a family lunch or among friends, the linguine with sausage, leeks, and fennel definitely deserve to be included in your culinary repertoire!
Also, discover these first courses with sausage:

To prepare linguine with sausage, leeks, and fennel, first remove the casing from the sausage and roughly chop it into pieces . Place the sausage in a hot non-stick skillet and brown it .
Deglaze with beer and let the alcohol evaporate, then add the sliced leeks and fennel . Continue cooking for about ten minutes, until the leeks are golden.
Meanwhile, cook the linguine in salted boiling water. Drain the pasta al dente and transfer it to the skillet. Add pepper , grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP , and briefly toss everything. Your linguine with sausage, leeks, and fennel is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the linguine with sausage, leeks, and fennel as soon as they are ready; if necessary, you can store them in the fridge for 2 days in an airtight container. Reheat them in a non-stick skillet over medium heat, adding a drizzle of oil or a bit of broth to prevent them from drying out too much.
You can enrich the recipe with other vegetables such as zucchini, carrots, or peppers.
If you are a fan of red sauce, you can add tomato puree.
If you prefer, you can replace the fennel with other aromatic herbs of your choice, such as parsley or dill!

