name:
Chicken rolls with leeks and citrus
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (8 thin slices)
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(100 g)
Oranges: 1
Lemons: 1
Leeks: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1tuft
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The chicken rolls with leeks and citrus are a tasty second course. By cooking the chicken this way, the meat will stay really tender, and a citrus aroma will fill your kitchen. These small rolls contain a filling made of bread and oranges that, in addition to releasing a unique taste, will make the rolls really soft and succulent. A bed of stewed leeks will give the dish an even more intense flavor. What are you waiting for to prepare them? Gather your friends, tonight we're making chicken rolls with leeks and citrus!
Also try the Chicken rolls in a pan !
To prepare the chicken rolls with leeks and citrus, first take care of the filling. In a blender container, add the breadcrumbs, a pinch of salt, a pinch of pepper, parsley, and peeled garlic . Blend everything and transfer to a bowl, add the zest of half a lemon and half an orange .
Mix and set aside for a moment. Grate the remaining lemon and orange zest and set aside for decoration. Cut the orange in half and peel it to remove the pith , then cut it into cubes .
and transfer it into the bowl with the breadcrumb mix . Mix and set aside. Remove the root part from the leek, peel it to remove the tougher leaves and cut it into rings. Wash and drain it well. Now move on to composing the rolls. Spread the chicken slices on a cutting board and place a tablespoon of filling at the beginning of each slice .
Then roll them up to form the rolls . Heat the oil in a pan, add the leek and let it wilt over a low flame for a few minutes . Then increase the heat, place the rolls with the closure facing down .
Wait about 3 minutes, then turn them over . Let them brown for another 3 minutes on the other side. Add the juice of the lemon and the reserved half orange. Lower the heat again, cover with a lid , and let the rolls cook for another 5 minutes. Transfer the rolls to a plate and garnish with the orange and lemon zest before serving .
It is advisable to consume the rolls immediately. Alternatively, they can be kept in the refrigerator for up to one day.
If you used all fresh ingredients you can freeze the rolls along with their cooking juices.
It is also possible to use grapefruit to add a touch of aroma to the rolls!

