name:
Gianduia pudding with orange sauce
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: 0.7cup(150 g)
Cornstarch: 3tbsp(35 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅛cup(15 g)
Whole milk: 1.1cups(250 g)
Sugar: ⅓cup(65 g)
Gianduia chocolate: 3.9oz(110 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
Amaretto (liquor): 1 ⅓tbsp(20 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Amaretti cookies: 2.6oz(75 g)
Orange juice: 1cup(250 g)
Orange peel: 1
Brown sugar: ⅓cup(80 g)
Orange liqueur: 1.7oz(50 g)
Rice starch: 1.1tbsp(15 g)
Biscotti: to taste- cat tongues

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 6 hours of cooling

instructions:
Gianduia pudding with orange sauce is a recipe that will turn your homemade puddings into refined desserts. Forget the usual flavors of chocolate pudding and vanilla pudding , here we have a delightful mix of gianduia and amaretto that will win you over at the first taste. And to make these sweets even more enticing, there is an aromatic and fragrant orange sauce. Dive your spoon into this delectable pudding and let yourself be seduced by its unique taste!
Discover more delicious homemade pudding recipes:



To prepare the gianduia pudding with orange sauce, pour the cream, cornstarch , and flour into a bowl, mix with a whisk .
Gradually pour the milk while stirring , and then transfer the mixture to a saucepan on the stove , add the granulated sugar .
Once it reaches a boil, cook for another minute while continuously stirring . Then turn off the heat and add the gianduia chocolate , stirring well to melt it. Incorporate the gelatin previously soaked in water and squeezed .
Pour the amaretto liqueur , then the butter and let it melt. At this point, crumble the amaretti with your hands .
Mix again , then transfer the mixture into a piping bag , and fill the silicone pudding molds . The quantities refer to 4 molds of 5.3 oz each.
Place in the freezer for 6 hours . Prepare the orange sauce: in a saucepan, pour the orange juice and zest and heat.
Meanwhile, in another saucepan, pour the brown sugar and let it melt over low heat . Now add the heated juice to the caramel in three parts .
Let it boil and in the meantime, in a bowl, combine the starch and orange liqueur , and blend with a whisk .
Incorporate the starch into the caramel , stir and let it cool . Once the puddings have set, unmold them and place them on a serving plate.
Transfer the cooled orange sauce into a piping bag and garnish the puddings , complete with pistachio cat tongues .
Gianduia pudding with orange sauce keeps for 2-3 days in the fridge. It is possible to freeze the pudding without the accompanying sauce.
As an alternative to amaretto, you can use vanilla syrup.

