name:
Risotto with parsley, orange and toasted almonds
ingredients:
Rice: 1.6cups(320 g)- Great risotto
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
White wine: 2cups(150 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Almonds: ½cup(80 g)
Water: 3 ½cups(800 g)- hot or vegetable broth
Oranges: 2
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Brown sugar: 1tsp
Parsley: 2cups(100 g)- leaves
Water: ¼cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
The risotto with parsley, orange, and toasted almonds is a first course with winter flavors, ideal for those who love to explore new taste horizons. The risotto, creamy thanks to the parsley sauce, is enriched with the caramelized sweetness of the oranges and the crunchiness of the toasted almonds, creating a perfect balance of aromas and textures. This risotto satisfies the palate and captivates the eye, making it ideal to serve during special occasions, festivities, or for a family Sunday lunch. We will guide you step by step to achieve a perfect risotto with parsley, orange, and toasted almonds.
If you are looking for other risotto recipes, don't miss out:
To prepare the risotto with parsley, orange, and toasted almonds, first peel the oranges and take out the segments . If they are too large, cut them in half .
Dress them with oil , salt , pepper, and brown sugar .
Pass a torch over the surface of the segments until they are slightly caramelized and set aside. If you don't have a torch, you can bake them in the oven, in grill mode, at 392°F for 5 minutes. Chop the almonds and toast them in a pan for 2 minutes over medium-high heat .
Blanch the parsley for a few seconds in slightly salted water . Drain and place it in a bowl with ice water . After a few minutes, drain it well .
Transfer the parsley to a mixer, season with oil and salt . Pour in the water and blend until smooth .
In a pot, pour a drizzle of oil, add the rice and toast for a few minutes . Deglaze with white wine and when all the alcohol has evaporated, add a ladle of slightly salted water or vegetable broth. Add a ladle of water each time the rice absorbs the previous one.
When the rice is ¾ cooked, add the parsley sauce and finish cooking. Turn off the heat, add the butter and Parmesan to make it creamy.
Plate the dish, place the oranges , toasted almonds , and a few parsley leaves on top of the risotto. Your risotto with parsley, orange, and toasted almonds is ready to be served .
The risotto with parsley, orange, and toasted almonds should be consumed as soon as it is ready. The parsley sauce can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for 1 day, or it can be frozen but should be consumed within 7 days.
You can replace the toasted almonds with chopped walnuts. For a spicy note, add a pinch of freshly grated ginger to the parsley sauce or during the rice toasting. If you love intense flavors, you can add pieces of blue cheese during the creaming process.

