name:
Sea bass fillet with caramelized fennel and orange sauce
ingredients:
Sea bass (sea bass): 2- (about 800 g each)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fennel: 2
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Brown sugar: 2spoonfuls
Balsamic vinegar: 1spoonful
Orange juice: 2
Honey: 1spoonful
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Cornstarch: 1tsp
Water: 3.1tbsp(50 g)
Dry white wine: 1.7oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The sea bass fillet with caramelized fennel and orange sauce is a second course that turns any table into a gourmet experience. With its natural refinement, this recipe combines the tenderness of the sea bass with the enveloping sweetness of the caramelized fennel, while the orange sauce provides a citrus freshness that balances every bite. Perfect for special occasions, such as a festive lunch or a memorable dinner, it conquers at first taste and does not leave even the most demanding palates indifferent. And the best part? You don't need to be a chef to succeed: just follow the steps to bring a masterpiece to the table with minimal effort!
If you are looking for more sea bass recipes, also try:
To prepare the sea bass fillet with caramelized fennel and orange sauce, first focus on the How to clean the seabass . Make a cut on the belly, reaching under the head, remove the entrails and rinse under running water to eliminate all impurities. Cut away the ventral fins . Scale with the appropriate tool or the back of a knife under running water . Make an oblique cut , just after the gills, starting from the back and joining the cut made on the belly.
Make an incision in the tail and dorsal part of the fish following the backbone . In this way, you will have obtained the first fillet , repeat the same procedure for the second fillet. Remove any bones with tweezers .
Cut the fillets into lozenges about 2-3 inches long . Make 2-3 cuts on the skin side . Place them on a baking sheet and season with oil and salt . Set aside.
Clean the fennel, removing the tuft and the harder base, then slice them . In a pan, melt the butter , then add the fennel and cook for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally, until they begin to brown.
Add the brown sugar , stir and cook for another 5-7 minutes, the fennel should be caramelized and soft. Pour the balsamic vinegar into the pan , adjust with salt and pepper . Stir once more to mix the seasonings, then remove from the heat, cover with a lid, and keep warm until serving.
Squeeze the oranges and put the juice in a small pot. Add the white wine , the honey , and bring to a boil.
Pour some water and reduce the sauce over medium heat for about 10 minutes. In the meantime, dissolve the cornstarch in a little water . After the time has elapsed, pour the cornstarch into the sauce , stirring continuously until it thickens.
Add the butter , adjust with salt and pepper and stir one last time. Remove from the heat and keep warm until serving. Heat a non-stick pan over medium-high heat, add the sea bass fillets with the skin side down .
Cook for 3-4 minutes, the skin should be crispy and golden . Flip the fillets and cook for another 2-3 minutes. Plate by placing the caramelized fennel in the center of the dish , laying the sea bass fillets on top .
Pour the orange sauce over the fish and on the plate and finish with the fennel fronds . Your sea bass with caramelized fennel and orange sauce is ready to be enjoyed !
The sea bass fillet with caramelized fennel and orange sauce can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to 2 days.
To give the orange sauce even more flavor, you can use both the juice and the grated peel of the oranges and replace the water with fish stock. You can also decorate the dish by adding a sprinkle of grated orange peel.

