name:
Orange and Pistachio Bundt Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 2
Egg yolks: 2
Sugar: 7tbsp(85 g)
Butter: 6tbsp(85 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.6cup(75 g)
Cornstarch: 8tbsp(65 g)
Orange peel: 2
Fine salt: 0.3tsp(2 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.6cup(75 g)
Orange juice: 0.5oz(15 g)- (freshly squeezed)
Orange peel: ½
Butter: to taste
Ground pistachio: to taste
Orange peel: to taste- semi-candied

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
The orange bundt cake is a simple and delicious homemade dessert... in this recipe, we show you how to make it even more delectable! The orange and pistachio bundt cake is topped with crunchy pistachios and garnished with a citrus glaze. Thanks to the soft texture of the batter and its intoxicating aroma, this orange cake with its elegant look is a pleasure from the first bite! Follow the instructions, and you'll see that the orange and pistachio bundt cake will win you over too...
To make the orange bundt cake, first butter the bundt pan and sprinkle the pistachio crumbs until it is fully covered . Set aside and proceed to preparing the batter.
In a double boiler, place the whole eggs , yolks , and sugar .
Add the salt and grated orange zest . Mix with a whisk while bringing the mixture to a temperature of 113°F .
Once it reaches the right temperature , remove the bowl from the double boiler and beat with electric mixers until you achieve a frothy consistency .
At this point, incorporate the flour and corn starch , gently stirring with a spatula .
Lastly, add the butter, which you have previously melted and allowed to cool slightly . Mix again to combine , then pour the batter into the pan and fill it up to three-quarters full .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 338°F for about 40 minutes . Check the baking with a toothpick, then remove from the oven and let it cool in the pan . Once slightly cooled, flip the bundt cake onto a serving plate and let it cool completely .
In the meantime, prepare the glaze: in a small bowl, mix the powdered sugar and orange juice , then add the grated orange zest and whisk until you get a smooth and homogeneous mixture .
Brush the surface of the bundt cake with the glaze , then garnish with candied orange peel . Your orange bundt cake is ready to be served !
The orange bundt cake can be stored for 2 days at room temperature, covered with a dome.
If you prefer, you can skip covering the pan with pistachio crumbs and instead add them as decoration on the cake's surface.

