name:
Chocolate and Orange Crumble Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(380 g)
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)- cold
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 4oz(110 g)- (about 2 medium)
Dark chocolate: 1.4oz(40 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 6tbsp(30 g)
Baking powder: 2.8tsp(8 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Orange juice: ¼cup(50 g)
Orange peel: 1
Egg yolks: 3
Cornstarch: 4tbsp(30 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + 1 hour of cooling the cream in the refrigerator

instructions:
The crumble cake is made with crumbs of shortcrust pastry and filled with a soft cream, fruit, ricotta, or Nutella filling. Today, we offer you a delicious and fragrant version: chocolate and orange crumble cake! Two layers of crumbly cocoa dough interspersed with a delightful Orange Cream : the crisp pastry contrasts with the smooth and velvety filling, just as the bitter note of the cocoa balances with the sweetness of the cream for a result that is pure delight for the palate. Let yourself be tempted by the goodness of the chocolate and orange crumble cake, and choose your next recipe from these irresistible desserts:
To make the chocolate and orange crumble cake, first grate the dark chocolate with a fine grater and prepare the dough: place the flour, cold diced butter , and unsweetened cocoa powder in a bowl.
Add the baking powder and knead with your fingertips to obtain a sandy mixture . At this point, add the grated chocolate .
Also add the brown sugar and work with your hands to blend the ingredients. Finally, add the eggs and knead until you get a homogeneous and crumbled mixture . Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and refrigerate until ready to use.
Move on to the cream: pour the milk and orange zest into a saucepan and bring to a low boil . Meanwhile, mix the egg yolks and brown sugar in another saucepan using a spatula to incorporate as little air as possible .
Add the cornstarch and mix until fully absorbed, then add the orange juice and mix again. When the milk is hot, pour it over the egg mixture, a little at a time, continuing to stir .
Place the mixture on the heat and cook for about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally . When you have obtained a smooth and thick cream, transfer it to a bowl and cover with contact plastic wrap . Let cool and refrigerate for about an hour.
After this time, you are ready to assemble the cake: line a 20 cm (8-inch) diameter mold with parchment paper and spread half of the dough to cover the entire base . Pour the orange cream and level it with the back of a spoon, leaving a couple of inches from the edge , then crumble the remaining dough to cover the entire surface .
Gently press the surface of the cake with your hands and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F (180°C) for 45 minutes . Once cooked, remove from the oven and let cool. Dust the chocolate and orange crumble cake with a little powdered sugar and serve at room temperature !
The chocolate and orange crumble cake can be stored in the refrigerator for about 3 days, covered with plastic wrap.
You can freeze the pastry and then thaw it and crumble it as per the recipe.
If you wish, you can flavor the chocolate and orange crumble cake dough with a pinch of cinnamon powder, the seeds of a vanilla pod, or grated tonka bean.
To prepare the pastry using the sablée method, you can use a food processor.

