name:
Sausages in Air Fryer
ingredients:
Sausage: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Rosemary: 1bunch
Sage: 1bunch
Thyme: 1bunch
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 4 ½tbsp(60 g)
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the flavored oil (10 minutes)

instructions:
Sausages in the air fryer are a rustic and tasty main course, perfect for those looking for an alternative to traditional pan cooking. Thanks to the air fryer's even cooking, a delicious crust forms on the surface of the sausages, encapsulating all their juiciness, while the flavored oil penetrates the meat, enhancing it with flavors and aromas. You'll achieve a result reminiscent of pan-cooked sausage , but with less fat and lingering odors in the kitchen. Sausages in the air fryer are suitable for many occasions, from family dinners to evenings with friends when you want to serve something delicious but without too much effort.
If you're looking for more sausage recipes, don't miss these:

If instead you're searching for other air fryer recipes, here is a small selection:
To prepare sausages in the air fryer, first finely chop the sage , rosemary , thyme, and garlic .
Gather everything in a small bowl, add the oil , and let it infuse for 10 minutes. Meanwhile, remove the string and separate the sausages. Prick them with a toothpick , this way all excess liquids will be released during cooking.
Place the sausages on a tray and thoroughly brush them with the flavored oil . Lay them in the air fryer basket and cook at 392°F for 20 minutes, turning them halfway through, until they are golden. Adjust salt at the end of cooking .
Plate them, garnish with aromatic herbs , and brush with more flavored oil . Your air fryer sausages are ready to be served hot .
Air fryer sausages can be stored in a closed container in the refrigerator for 2 days. Before eating, reheat them in the air fryer for a few minutes at 356°F.
You can customize the flavored oil by adding your favorite spices like paprika, chili pepper, dehydrated onion, or cumin. You can also pair the air fryer sausages with a side of roasted potatoes or grilled vegetables for a complete and tasty meal.

