name:
Beetroot Spaghetti, Castelmagno Cream, and Guanciale
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)- thick
Jowls: 3.5oz(100 g)
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Precooked beets: 1 ½cup(380 g)
Garlic: 2cloves- poached
Thyme: 2sprigs
Castelmagno cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Beetroot spaghetti, Castelmagno cream, and guanciale combine vibrant colors and intense flavors in a unique combination. The natural sweetness of the beetroot, transformed into a velvety cream, meets the strong taste of Castelmagno, which adds an enveloping note to this first course. The crispy guanciale completes the symphony of flavors, adding a savory touch and captivating texture. Spaghetti is the perfect pasta shape to collect the creamy sauces, allowing you to savor all the nuances in one bite. Beetroot spaghetti, Castelmagno cream, and guanciale are perfect for a special dinner and, more generally, for those occasions when you want to impress your guests with a delightful and visually appealing dish.
If you are looking for other first courses with beetroot, also try:

To prepare the beetroot spaghetti, Castelmagno cream, and guanciale, first cut the beetroot, first into slices and then into cubes . Set aside. In a pan, add the guanciale cut into cubes and cook over medium-high heat until it becomes crispy. Transfer it onto paper towels and set aside .
Cook the spaghetti in plenty of boiling salted water . In the same pan with the guanciale cooking juices, add 2 cloves of garlic in their skins and thyme . Let them infuse over low heat for a few minutes, then add the beetroot .
Add a ladle of pasta cooking water and cook for 5 minutes. At this point, remove the garlic and thyme and transfer the beetroot to a jug . Blend with an immersion blender until you achieve a smooth consistency ; if necessary, add another ladle of pasta cooking water.
Pour the sauce back into the pan . Prepare the Castelmagno cream: grate the cheese , then add it to the cream you heated in a small saucepan .
Stir to melt it completely . Drain the spaghetti al dente and transfer it to the pan with the beetroot sauce , mix and season with salt and pepper .
Spread the Castelmagno cream on the bottom of the plate, place a nest of spaghetti on top and top with the guanciale . Finally, garnish with some thyme leaves. Your beetroot spaghetti, Castelmagno cream, and guanciale are ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to enjoy the beetroot spaghetti, Castelmagno cream, and guanciale immediately after preparation.
The beetroot sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
For a vegetarian version, you can substitute the guanciale with crispy breadcrumbs.
As an alternative to Castelmagno, you can use Pecorino Romano, sweet Gorgonzola, or Taleggio.

