name:
Chocolate Babka
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 4.3cups(500 g)- (with at least 12.5 g of protein)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.9oz(25 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: ¼cup(25 g)
Water: 0.7cup(160 ml)
Whole milk: ⅔cup(160 ml)
Fine salt: 1.4tsp(8 g)
Spreadable hazelnut cream: ½cup(100 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 0.75oz(20 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Whole milk: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + rising times

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate babka, start by adding flour, cocoa powder, water , milk into a stand mixer, then also add the crumbled yeast .
Lastly, add the salt . Begin mixing immediately with the hook at a minimum speed , then you can increase the speed and work until the dough is uniform and detaches from the sides .
On the working surface, knead the dough a bit and give it a couple of folds , then cover with a bowl and let it rest for about 10 minutes. Then repeat the folds, this way the dough will be smoother . If it is not smooth yet, you can repeat the 10-minute rest under the bowl and then the folds again.
On a lightly floured surface, roll out the dough with a rolling pin, aiming for a rectangular shape as much as possible , spread the cream , fold along the long side .
Spread the spreadable cream over this surface as well , then distribute the dark chocolate chips , then roll it onto itself from the shorter side .
Once rolled, make a cut starting 1-1.5 inches from one of the ends of the roll , cut to the other end to create two parts . Begin braiding them .
Continue to create the braid pattern to the end . Place the babka in a pan 3 inches high, 10 inches long, and 4 inches wide. Add more dark chocolate chips on top as desired .
Cover and let rise until doubled in size, it will take about 30 minutes . In a small bowl, you can mix milk and egg . Once risen, take the babka .
You can brush it with the milk and egg mixture , then bake at 356°F for 20-25 minutes. Once baked, remove from the oven , let cool, then remove from the pan and slice to share your chocolate babka .
You can store chocolate babka for 1 day at most in a well-sealed food bag.
It can be frozen, then thawed and warmed slightly before serving.
Once placed in the pan, ensure it is well arranged so that it rises and bakes evenly.

