name:
Spaghetti with Romanesco broccoli and bacon
ingredients:
Whole wheat Spaghetti pasta: 0.7lb(320 g)- large
Romanesco broccoli: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (to clean)
Smoked pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Stale bread: 1.1oz(30 g)
Dried chili pepper: ¾tsp
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Spaghetti with Romanesco broccoli and bacon is a succulent main course of pasta that offers a combination of robust flavors and delightful textures to tantalize every palate. The recipe highlights the exceptional and bold flavor of broccoli by presenting it in two variations: a creamy one, achieved by blending the broccoli for the sauce, and a crunchy one, made with sautéed broccoli for the garnish. But it is the bacon that adds a rich and savory note with its smoky hints. Sautéed in the pan until crispy and golden, the bacon releases its juicy oils, enveloping each bite of pasta with irresistible temptation. Vary your everyday menus with spaghetti with Romanesco broccoli and bacon and don't miss these other main courses with broccoli:

To prepare spaghetti with Romanesco broccoli and bacon, first cut the stale bread into cubes and toast it in a pan until golden . Set it aside and in the same pan pour the pine nuts .
Toast the pine nuts until golden , then set them aside. Dice the smoked bacon into 1/8-inch cubes , then brown it in the pan .
When it is crispy , transfer it to a tray lined with paper towels . Now clean the broccoli by removing the leaves and stem .
Divide the florets, you'll need about 10 ounces . Boil the broccoli in salted boiling water for about 8 minutes . In the pan where you cooked the bacon, add 2 cloves of garlic, a drizzle of olive oil, and the dried chili pepper .
Drain the Romanesco broccoli directly into the pan and sauté for a few minutes with a ladle of cooking water . In the same water where you cooked the broccoli, cook the spaghetti for 9 minutes .
Remove the garlic from the broccoli , set aside some small florets for plate decoration , and blend the rest with an immersion blender .
Return the broccoli cream to the pan and thin it with a ladle of pasta cooking water . Drain the spaghetti into the pan .
Finish cooking with a couple of ladles of hot water . Toss with a drizzle of olive oil and complete the dish with pine nuts, reserved florets, bacon, and toasted bread. The spaghetti with Romanesco broccoli and bacon is ready to be served !
Spaghetti with Romanesco broccoli and bacon can be stored for one day in the refrigerator.
You can prepare the toasted bread and browned bacon in advance.
You can use speck instead of bacon.
For a vegetarian variant, you can replace the bacon with sun-dried tomatoes in oil cut into strips.

