name:
Leek Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Leeks: 2 ¾cups(250 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Dry white wine: 3.4oz(100 g)
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 3- walnuts
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Leek risotto is a delicate and creamy first course. The rice, during cooking, absorbs all the flavor of the leeks previously sautéed in butter, creating an aromatic dish that conquers at the first taste. It suits many occasions, from family dinners to more formal lunches, managing to win everyone over with its simplicity and unmistakable taste. If you love to customize your recipes, you can create many versions; for example, you can enrich it with crispy bacon for a savory note, or with shavings of aged cheese for a more intense flavor. Whatever your choice, the leek risotto will always prove to be a success, easy to prepare and capable of transforming few ingredients into a very tasty dish.
If you are looking for other leek risottos, also try:
To prepare the leek risotto, first remove the green part of the leeks and the roots. Cut them in half and then finely . In a pot, melt the butter .
Add the leeks and sauté them over medium heat until they are tender and slightly golden . Add the rice and season with salt.
Toast for about 2 minutes, stirring continuously , until the grains become translucent. Deglaze with white wine and let all the alcohol evaporate. Add the hot vegetable broth , one ladle at a time whenever the previous one is absorbed by the rice, and cook for 15 minutes or until it is al dente.
Turn off the heat, add butter , cheese , and cover with a lid until the butter has melted.
Stir until achieving a creamy consistency, then plate and finish with a sprinkle of black pepper . Your leek risotto is ready to be enjoyed .
The leek risotto should be consumed as soon as it's ready, but if there are leftovers, you can store it in the fridge in a closed container for 1-2 days.
If you love stronger flavors, you can replace Parmesan with a blue cheese like Gorgonzola. For a contrast in textures, add toasted walnuts or almonds at the end of cooking.

