name:
Potato and escarole strudel with raisins and pine nuts
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- (1 rectangular sheet)
Escarole (endive): 4cups(200 g)- (to clean)
Potatoes: 7.1oz(200 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(100 g)
Taggiasca olives: 1.4oz(40 g)
Raisins: ¼cup(25 g)
Pine nuts: 0.9oz(25 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Puff pastry: 4oz(115 g)- (half rectangular roll)
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
The potato and escarole strudel with raisins and pine nuts is a rustic savory pie with a super tasty filling! A vegetarian recipe that recalls the typical flavors of escarole pizza in a much easier and quicker version to prepare. The flaky puff pastry shell holds a soft filling made of boiled potatoes and sautéed escarole seasoned with olives, pine nuts, raisins, and a pinch of chili. To make it even more inviting, we decorated the surface with cute little stars... this way, the potato and escarole strudel with raisins and pine nuts will be perfect for the holidays too!
Don't miss these savory strudel recipes too:

To prepare the potato and escarole strudel with raisins and pine nuts, first boil the potato starting with cold water — it will take about 30 minutes . In the meantime, soak the raisins , clean the escarole and chop it coarsely .
In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil with the garlic clove and chili , then add the escarole and salt .
Cover with a lid and cook over medium heat for about ten minutes, stirring occasionally. After this time, remove the garlic and add the pine nuts .
Add the olives and the drained raisins . Mix well and turn off the heat, then transfer to a bowl.
At this point, the potato will be cooked, so mash it and add it to the bowl along with the breadcrumbs, little by little . Stir to combine everything. Unroll the puff pastry on the work surface and place the mixture in the center . Shape the filling with your hands to compact it, leaving the edges free.
Fold the bottom edge and top edge first, then the sides to seal the filling well inside .
Now unroll the other puff pastry roll and cut out stars with a cookie cutter . Decorate the roll as desired with the stars , then brush the surface with the beaten egg .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 400°F for 30 minutes . Once cooked and golden, remove from the oven and let it cool slightly before slicing it. Your potato and escarole strudel with raisins and pine nuts is ready to be enjoyed !
The potato and escarole strudel with raisins and pine nuts can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
You can freeze it after cooking.
If you prefer, you can omit the raisins or add capers or anchovies to make the potato and escarole strudel even more flavorful!

