name:
Leek Soup
ingredients:
Leeks: 1lb(460 g)- already cleaned
Potatoes: 5.6oz(160 g)- already cleaned
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Water: 8 ½cups(1.5 l)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Bread: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Leek soup is a warm and genuine first course that arises from the meeting of the delicacy of leeks and the creamy consistency given by potatoes. It is enriched with an aromatic touch of rosemary and bay leaves while toasted, crispy, and golden bread adds a pleasant contrast to the dish. The result is a hearty and flavorful soup, where every spoonful releases unique aromas and flavors. It's perfect for warming up on cold days and is suitable to be served as a light first course for a family meal or with friends. Follow the steps to prepare a perfect leek soup and you'll discover how easy it is to transform a few ingredients into a very tasty dish.
If you are looking for other soup recipes, don't miss:
To prepare leek soup, first remove the green part of the leek , cut the roots , and take off the outer leaves .
Cut it into slices about 1/2 inch thick . Gather everything in a bowl and cover with cold water . Let it rest until use. Meanwhile, peel and cut the potatoes into slices about 1/2 inch thick .
In a pan, heat the oil, add the potatoes and sauté for 2 minutes. Drain the leeks, add them to the pan , stir, and continue cooking for another 2 minutes. Pour water to cover the ingredients .
Season with salt and pepper and cook for 10 minutes. Flavor with rosemary and bay leaves and continue cooking for another 40 minutes. Meanwhile, in a pan, heat the oil, then add the bread cut into pieces .
Cook over medium heat for 2 minutes , stirring often to prevent burning. A few minutes before the end of cooking, blend with an immersion blender about half of the ingredients to get an even thicker soup. Plate the soup and top it with toasted bread. Your leek soup is ready to be served .
Leek soup can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for 2 days. Before serving it again, heat it gently in a saucepan, adding a bit of water or broth to restore the right consistency.
You can add a sprinkle of Parmesan cheese and a drizzle of raw olive oil before serving the soup. Try flavoring the base with a sauté of onion and diced bacon before adding the potatoes and leeks.

