name:
Artichoke Meatballs in Sauce
ingredients:
Artichokes: 8- mulberries
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Breadcrumbs: 0.833cup(100 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Tomato purée: 2.1cups(500 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for the dough in the refrigerator (60 minutes)

instructions:
Artichoke meatballs in sauce are a delicious second course, perfect for those looking for a tasty alternative to classic meatballs in sauce . The combination of artichokes with pecorino cheese provides a balance of savoriness and delicacy, while the breadcrumbs give the right consistency to the mixture, allowing you to obtain perfectly compact meatballs. Ideal to serve during a casual family lunch or dinner with friends, you can accompany them with fresh bread for the indispensable 'scarpetta'! If you love dishes rich in flavor and full of character, artichoke meatballs in sauce will become a flagship recipe in your home!
If you are looking for other meatball recipes, don't miss:
To prepare the artichoke meatballs in sauce, the first step is to clean the artichokes . Remove the tough outer leaves , then cut off the tip . Peel the stem and cut the artichokes in half .
Remove the inner choke . Cut the hearts into wedges and the stem into slices . As you clean them, immerse them in acidulated water to prevent them from darkening.
In a pan, pour the oil, add the garlic, and sauté for a few minutes. Add the well-drained artichokes and season with salt . Stir, cover with a lid , and cook over medium heat for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Remove the lid and let dry for 4-5 minutes , stirring as little as possible so the artichokes maintain a nice color. Allow to cool slightly; you can remove the garlic or leave it depending on your taste. Transfer everything to a mixer and blend until you get a homogeneous mixture .
In a bowl, place the blended artichokes and add the pecorino cheese , chopped parsley, and season with salt and pepper . Add the breadcrumbs and mix.
You should obtain a homogeneous mixture . Let it rest in the fridge for 1 hour. Meanwhile, prepare the sauce. In a pot, sauté the garlic for a few minutes, then add the tomato puree and a little water to rinse the container .
Season with salt , cover with a lid , and cook for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Moisten your hands, form the meatballs by taking 20g of mixture at a time .
Place them on a tray . In a non-stick pan, pour a drizzle of oil, add the meatballs and brown them for 5 minutes, moving the pan to cook them on all sides .
Add the sauce and let the meatballs absorb the flavor for a few minutes. Finish with some basil and serve. Your artichoke meatballs in sauce are ready to be enjoyed !
Artichoke meatballs in sauce can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for up to 2 days. Before serving them again, just heat them over low heat with their sauce, adding a tablespoon of water if necessary.
If you love more aromatic flavors, you can add a pinch of smoked paprika or turmeric to the meatball mixture. If you like experimenting, you can mix other vegetables, like spinach or zucchini, with the artichokes to make even richer and more original meatballs.

