name:
Spiced Apple Compote
ingredients:
Fuji Apples: 2.1lbs(950 g)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Cardamon: 3berries
Black pepper: to taste
Powdered ginger: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the time to sanitize the jars

instructions:
Apples have always been the undisputed protagonists of rustic desserts , such as microwave baked apples , and classic desserts from apple pie to enjoy at breakfast to the more refined Apple and Grapefruit Glasses that add a gourmet touch to your special dinners. The recipe we propose here has distant roots: spiced apple compote is a typical preparation that was part of the preserves of the past, when necessity was made a virtue, and with a bit of sugar and fragrant spices, seasonal fruits could be preserved for a long time. The apple compote, with its juicy and sugary pulp flavored with spices, can be enjoyed in many ways, such as a delicious filling for shortbread pastries, to enhance the taste of cheeses, or as a sauce to accompany slow-cooked meats. The versatility of spiced apple compote is the secret of this timeless recipe!

Before starting the preparation of the spiced apple compote, proceed with the sanitization of the glass jars (while in the meantime you prepare the preserve, so that the jars are still hot when filling them); for this operation, refer to the instructions provided by the Ministry of Health at the end of the recipe. Carefully wash the jars under running water and check that they do not have cracks or chips. Line a wide pot with high sides with a clean cloth and place the jars inside the pot with the opening facing upwards . Then surround the jars with one or more towels. At this point, fill the pot with water until it covers the jars . Bring to a boil, then lower the heat and leave the jars in the pot for another 30 minutes. In the last ten minutes, also immerse the lids .
Leave the jars in the water until the moment of filling. While the jars are boiling, start preparing the spiced apple compote: wash the apples , peel them , and remove the core and stem. Cut the apples into small cubes
Transfer them to a high-sided pot . At this point, add all the aromas and spices: the granulated sugar , the cardamom pods ,
the ground ginger , and the ground black pepper . Now mix with a spatula to flavor the apples ;
place the pot on the stove, cook over moderate heat until reaching 226°F measured with a kitchen thermometer : it will take about 30 minutes, the apples should be very soft. During cooking, stir the mixture occasionally with a ladle. Once cooking is complete, transfer the cooked apples to a food mill to reduce them to a homogeneous puree .
Still hot, jar them in the sanitized glass jars , fill the jar up to 0.4 inches from the rim, and close with the lid, screwing it on well but not excessively tightly , and let the jars cool completely. Once cooled, check for a vacuum seal by pressing the center of the lid: the lid should not make the classic "click-clack" sound. Your spiced apple compote is ready to be consumed .
The spiced apple compote can be stored for about 3 months, provided the vacuum seal has occurred correctly and the jars are stored in a cool, dry place, away from light and heat sources. It is recommended to wait at least 2-3 weeks before consuming the compote. Once each jar is opened, store in the refrigerator and consume within 3-4 days maximum.
For those who don't want to miss classic pairings, ground cinnamon can also be added to the spiced apple compote.
For the correct preparation of homemade preserves, it is necessary to follow the guidelines indicated by the Ministry of Health, presented in the text: Guidelines for the correct preparation of food preserves in the domestic environment. This is a list of kitchen, personal, and equipment hygiene rules, as well as indications on proper jar sanitization, ingredient treatment, pasteurization, and storage. Before preparing a preserve (jams, marmalades, compotes, chutneys, pickles, syrups, fruit jellies, marinades, pesto), it is advisable to read the instructions in the link carefully to avoid health risks.

