name:
Potatoes 'mpacchiuse with onion
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2.1lbs(930 g)- silane
Red Tropea onions: 8.1oz(230 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Born in South America, arrived in Spain and then brought to the Netherlands and Italy, potatoes have quickly become a widely used and beloved ingredient by everyone. They pair with virtually everything and are delicious even on their own, fried or baked . While searching for new recipes to offer you, we flipped through one of the regional cookbooks and among the Calabrian recipes, we found a truly appetizing one! Potatoes 'mpacchiuse with onion are a typical side dish of the city of Cosenza and they owe their name precisely to the fact that once cooked, they will be 'mpacchiuse or stuck together. With this mix of pan-frying and stewing, the Patate 'mpacchiuse turn out very soft inside with a gentle crust on the outside. They can be enriched and flavored with many ingredients. We chose Tropea onions, the most classic and common combination, but there are variants with peppers, porcini mushrooms, and added bacon! Discover the cooking method and customize them to your taste! Try also:
To prepare the potatoes 'mpacchiuse with onion, first peel the potatoes , then cut them into slices about 1/8 inch thick . Then peel the onion and do the same: first cut it in half and then into slices less than 1/4 inch thick .
Pour the oil into a pot , let it heat up, then add the potatoes . Season with salt .
Cover with the lid and cook for 8 minutes, without ever stirring or moving the pot. After the indicated minutes, remove the lid, add the onions , and cover again with the lid . Cook for another 20 minutes, shaking the pot occasionally to prevent them from sticking to the bottom.
Then remove the lid and continue cooking for another 15 minutes over medium heat . During this phase, do not stir the potatoes very often. To get well-intact potatoes, you should only toss them a couple of times; otherwise, you can stir them gently with a wooden spoon. Once cooking is complete, remove the potatoes with a slotted spoon and transfer them to a serving dish. It will not be necessary to use absorbent paper. Serve the potatoes 'mpacchiuse with onion while still hot .
It is advisable to consume the potatoes immediately. Alternatively, they can be stored in the refrigerator for up to a couple of days.
If you can't find Sila potatoes, you can use yellow-fleshed potatoes.
If you prefer, you can further flavor the potatoes 'mpacchiuse with some chili peppers or fresh porcini mushrooms along with the onions!

