name:
Kale Burger
ingredients:
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 7.1oz(200 g)
Sandwich bread: 6.5oz(185 g)
Eggs: 1
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to be grated)
Water: ⅓cup(80 g)
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 16 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Kale is a winter ingredient commonly used in cooking. With its bold flavor, it is perfect for making many recipes: starting with a simple Pasta with Black Kale , going through the soups of this season, like the classic Tuscan ribollita . Today we used it to make a kale burger, a valid alternative to the classic meat-based version or the typical vegetarian version like the potato and bean burger ! This burger will be perfect for your vegetarian friends but not only: it will prove to be a good dinner for the whole family! You can use it to fill a sandwich, along with one of your favorite sauces, a slice of tomato, and some cheese, but it will also be delicious enjoyed as a plate!
Discover these recipes with kale:
To prepare the kale burgers, first cut the kale, well-washed, into pieces and chop it coarsely . Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the kale
and cook it, stirring occasionally until it wilts and becomes tender : it will take about 10 minutes. Break the bread with your hands and place it in a bowl .
Add the water and start kneading with your hands , until you get a homogeneous mixture .
Then chop the parsley and set it aside for a moment. Add the cooled kale and the Grana Padano PDO to the bowl.
Add the chopped parsley , the egg , the salt , and the pepper.
Knead everything with your hands , until you get a homogeneous mixture . Then take about 4.6 oz of the mixture
and place it inside an 8 cm pastry cutter, placed on a tray lined with parchment paper . Press lightly with your hands to give it the classic burger shape . Gently remove the pastry cutter
and repeat this operation until you have 4 burgers. Heat a little oil in a pan, then place a square of parchment paper and position the burger on top .
Cook for about 4 minutes, then flip it and continue cooking for another 4 minutes. The parchment paper will prevent the burger from burning. Cook the others as well and serve your kale burgers while they're still hot !
Raw kale burgers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 day or you can freeze them wrapped in plastic wrap. Once cooked, they can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
Replace the bread with boiled potatoes and flavor your burger with a chop of sun-dried tomatoes and capers.

