name:
Savoy Cabbage and Potatoes
ingredients:
Verza (savoy cabbage): 2lbs(900 g)
Potatoes: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Leeks: 1.4oz(40 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)
Water: 1.3cups(300 g)
Sage: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
For lovers of mountain flavors and hearty single dishes based on polenta, sausage, and cheese , we have thought of a rustic and appetizing side dish to bring to the table and enjoy in front of a lit fireplace: Savoy cabbage and potatoes! A winter comfort dish, inspired by the traditional Savoy Cabbage Salentina Style , made with few simple ingredients and the irresistible touch of gratinated cheese... who can resist such goodness? Prepare your scarves, hats, and ski boots: when you return, you will find a rich dish of Savoy cabbage and potatoes ready to refuel you!
If you love recipes with Savoy cabbage, also try:

To make Savoy cabbage and potatoes, start by preparing the ingredients you will need: cut the cabbage in half , slice it into strips , and rinse it under running water. Peel the potatoes and cut them into slices about 1/4 inch thick .
Finally, clean and finely chop the leek . Heat a drizzle of oil in a saucepan suitable for oven use, add the leek and sauté for a few minutes until tender, stirring often, then add the potatoes and stir to prevent them from sticking to the bottom, let them flavor over medium heat.
After a few moments, add the cabbage and stir again. At this point, pour the water into the saucepan , flavor with sage leaves ,
salt , pepper, cover with the lid and cook over medium-low heat for about 25-30 minutes. Meanwhile, grate the scamorza cheese with a coarse grater .
After 20 minutes, remove the lid and spread the scamorza cheese on the surface . Place the saucepan under the grill for 5 minutes, and then you can serve your Savoy cabbage and potatoes hot and steaming !
You can store Savoy cabbage and potatoes in the refrigerator for up to 4 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you wish, you can also add carrots or shallots to the preparation and flavor everything with lemon zest.
We recommend not lifting the lid too often, otherwise, the steam will disperse, and you will need to increase the cooking time.
If the preparation is still too brothy, continue cooking without the lid before the oven step.
Instead of scamorza, you can use Fontina cheese.
Do you like the combination of Savoy cabbage and potatoes? Try it in a first course version with the recipe for Savoy cabbage and potato velouté !

