name:
Carrot Plumcake
ingredients:
Carrots: 6oz(170 g)- to clean
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(160 g)
Almond flour: ½cup(50 g)
Eggs: 4.6oz(130 g)- (about 2)
Brown sugar: ¾cup(160 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 7tbsp(100 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Orange peel: 1
Baking powder: 2tsp(8 g)
Almond slices: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
Have you ever tried making a Carrot cake without eggs ? With their unmistakable sweetness, they are perfect for cakes and treats like the ones we've suggested before: muffins , Purple carrot cupcakes ! We couldn't miss out on a soft and fragrant carrot plumcake, topped with a delightful almond sliver crust. It's a butter-free dessert, for which we used oil instead. Simple to make, soft, and delicious, once sliced you can enjoy it with a cup of tea or coffee to start your day in a wholesome and indulgent way!
Also try our delicious Whole Wheat Plumcake !
To prepare the carrot plumcake, first peel the carrots , then trim the ends and grate them with a fine grater .
You’ll get about 5.6 oz of puree . Now, start with the batter. In a bowl, pour the brown sugar , add the eggs and whisk the mixture.
Also incorporate the carrots , mix and add the oil . Add the all-purpose flour and the sifted baking powder using a sieve .
Now add the almond flour . Mix again to get a smooth, lump-free batter. Flavor with orange zest and lemon zest .
The batter is ready , pour it into a tapered plumcake mold that measures 6.7x3.15 inches at the base and 4.3x7.9 inches at the top, with a 2.75-inch high edge . Decorate the surface with almond slivers .
Bake the cake in a static oven preheated to 356°F for 1 hour, on the middle rack. When the carrot plumcake is cooked, take it out of the oven , let it cool slightly, and then remove it from the mold. Dust the surface with powdered sugar and serve .
The carrot plumcake keeps for 2 days at room temperature under a glass dome. You can freeze it after baking.
For those with a sweet tooth, you can enrich the batter with dark chocolate chips.

