name:
Banana and chocolate chip muffins (good mood muffins)
ingredients:
Sugar: 0.8cup(160 g)
Type 00 flour: 3cups(360 g)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Bananas: 1 ¼cup(300 g)- (the pulp)
Eggs: 2.1oz(60 g)- at room temperature
Butter: 1.1cups(125 g)
Whole milk: 0.4cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Dark chocolate: 4.2oz(120 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To face all the obstacles that life throws our way every day, what we need is a generous dose of good mood! But how do we recharge with happiness? The answer is simple: start the day with a sweet treat! Banana and chocolate chip muffins are the perfect recipe to get a full load of energy. These soft pastries are inspired by one of the most famous American recipes: banana bread ; in fact, in both cases, mashed bananas are used in the dough, giving taste and softness. Since we are not easily satisfied, we decided to make them even more delicious by adding chunks of chocolate, while in the Banana and Peanut Bundt Cake , we chose nuts to add a crunchy note. Prepare banana and chocolate chip muffins, and they will become the favorite snack for both adults and children!
If you love this fruit, try it in Banana Chips version too!
To prepare the banana muffins, start by melting the butter in a saucepan over very low heat; then let it cool slightly and in the meantime, peel the bananas . Then cut them into chunks , transfer them to a large bowl, and start mashing the pulp with a fork .
When you have obtained a coarse puree , add the egg and the melted butter now at room temperature .
Also add the room temperature milk and mix with a whisk until you get a well-blended mixture .
Then sift both the flour and the baking powder into the mixture and mix with a whisk until you get a homogeneous dough.
Then add the sugar , a pinch of salt , and incorporate them by continuing to mix with the whisk , but without working the dough too much, otherwise, the muffins will not be soft.
Coarsely chop the chocolate , add it to the dough , and mix one last time to incorporate it .
Using an ice cream scoop, distribute the dough into 12 cupcake liners with a diameter of 2.17 inches (19-20) arranged in a muffin tin; alternatively, you can use a spoon or transfer the dough to a piping bag. Bake in a preheated static oven at 338°F for 45 minutes; after the indicated baking time, check for doneness using a toothpick; then take out your banana and chocolate chip muffins . Let them cool slightly and enjoy.
Store banana muffins for 1-2 days at most under a glass dome. Once baked and cooled, you can freeze them.
You can flavor banana and chocolate chip muffins with the seeds of a vanilla pod, some orange zest, or a tablespoon of rum.
If you are looking for a lactose-free version, try our light banana bread recipe!

