name:
Gratinated Fusilloni with Black Kale and Pecorino
ingredients:
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 3 ½cups(250 g)
Fusilloni pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Green Peperoncino: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Pecorino toscano cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)- to grate
Fior di latte mozzarella cheese: 1.3cups(150 g)
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(20 g)
Powdered cumin: to taste
Dill: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Its leaves are tapered, dark green, with a surface reminiscent of a dinosaur's skin: hence the name dinosaur kale , which is black kale! It is the star of this recipe, the gratinated fusilloni with black kale and Pecorino that will become one of your go-to dishes for Sunday lunch or a dinner with friends. The black kale, with its strong and unmistakable flavor that enhances historical dishes like ribollita and Farinata lucchese in jar-cooking , transforms in this dish into a delicious cream, meeting the savoriness of Pecorino and the sweetness of mozzarella. A mix of goodness for a winter-flavored main course that's finger-licking good!
Also check out these recipes with black kale:
To prepare the gratinated fusilloni with black kale and Pecorino, start by washing the black kale leaves well, removing the end of the stalk where there are no leaves. Then finely chop the part of the stalk with fewer leaves and gradually make the cuts coarser towards the leaves: this way, the cooking of the black kale will be uniform . Place it in a pot with salted boiling water and boil it for about 25 minutes . Meanwhile, you can focus on the Pecorino cream: grate it finely .
In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, the peeled and chopped garlic , cumin and chili powder . Lightly flavor the spices, then pour in the cream .
As soon as the cream is heated, add 160 grams (5.6 oz) of Pecorino , mix with a soft whisk or a wooden spoon to melt the cheese. Pepper and salt to taste and then turn off the heat.
When the black kale is cooked, drain it saving the cooking water and pour it into a tall glass, add a little of the cooking water and blend with an immersion blender. Boil the fusilloni in the same water where you cooked the black kale, after bringing it back to a boil .

While the pasta is cooking, cut the fiordilatte mozzarella into slices . Once cooked, drain the fusilloni directly into the Pecorino sauce and over medium-low heat, mix to flavor .

In a baking dish, pour a layer of black kale cream , then a layer of fusilloni , then again black kale cream .
Sprinkle with 20 grams (0.7 oz) of Pecorino, thyme, and dill , then lay down the mozzarella slices , then sprinkle with another 20 grams (0.7 oz) of Pecorino and thyme and dill to taste .
Sprinkle with pine nuts , a drizzle of oil and bake at 356°F for about 20 minutes. This way, the fusilloni will become gratinated . Serve the gratinated fusilloni with black kale and Pecorino hot!
You can store the gratinated fusilloni with black kale and Pecorino in an airtight container in the fridge for 1-2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of ground cumin, you can use the seeds by slightly crushing them. You can use freshly grated nutmeg as an alternative. Flaked almonds can be used instead of pine nuts.

