name:
Apple Chips
ingredients:
Red Delicious apples: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Water: ¾cup(200 g)
Lemon juice: 1

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 6 h
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
If bad weather forces you to stay indoors, we suggest a cute idea for preparing a delicious and flavorful yet healthy snack to offer friends, for a tasty but light bite, or for an original snack for your kids: apple chips! Apples, often the stars of delicious desserts like baked apples , microwave baked apples , or the classic apple pie , this time are transformed into thin slices that, sweetened by a syrup of water, sugar, and lemon and dried in the oven, become golden and crispy, perfect for a sweet finger food break. Besides, fruit Banana Chips or Crispy Zucchini Chips are always a hit! Even if you're watching your weight, with this delicious crunchy snack, you won't feel guilty: making them is very simple, you just need a bit of patience to let them dry well in the oven for a few hours... time to enjoy a good book and relax a bit while waiting to take your chips out of the oven!
To prepare the apple chips, start by making the syrup: in a small pot, pour the water , the sugar , and dissolve everything over low heat .
Transfer the obtained syrup to a baking dish and let it cool; when it is at room temperature, squeeze a lemon and add its juice to the previously prepared syrup : this will prevent the apples, once sliced, from turning brown. If you decide to prepare the apples without dipping them in the sugar syrup, it is important to soak them in lemon juice for a few moments anyway.
Wash the apples, remove the core with the appropriate tool , and with the help of a mandoline, slice them to a thickness of about 1/8 inch. Adjust the thickness of the slices based on the apple's consistency: slicing them too thin risks breaking them when touched, but if too thick, they will have difficulty drying. Then immerse the apple slices in the prepared syrup .
Drain them and place them on baking sheets lined with parchment paper ; let them dry in a fan oven at 175-195°F for at least 5-6 hours, turning them with the help of a small knife (or a tool with a very thin blade) halfway through drying. They will probably still feel soft to the touch after the 5-6 hours in the oven: don't worry, it's the effect of the heat. Once cooled, they will become crispy, and your apple chips will be ready to enjoy! .
You can store the apple chips away from moisture for 4 days, well sealed in a food storage bag.
To get excellent apple chips, the apples used should be crunchy and not mealy, so you can choose varieties like Golden Delicious or Granny Smith. Remember that apple chips do not tolerate moisture, so once cooled, they should be stored in a dry place like a plastic bag or a tin box. To add an extra flavor note to your apple chips, you can sprinkle some cinnamon before baking them, and if you like, you can get creative and use the same method to make chips with other fruits like bananas, pears, or pineapples.

