name:
Potato and Onion Casserole
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Yellow onions: 1
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)
Pecorino cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Today we show you how to prepare potato and onion casserole at home, a tasty and original idea perfect to serve as an appetizer or a rich side dish. The Potato Pie is a dish always loved by everyone, but today thanks to the sweetness of the onions and the proposed cheese mix it becomes even more delicious and flavorful: we have chosen to mix together Parmesan and Pecorino for an irresistible taste! Red potatoes are the most suitable for this recipe, they stay firm and are perfect for baking. Discover with us the doses and procedure to make this delicious recipe at home and choose how to serve it, or what to accompany this delicious potato and onion casserole with!
If you are a fan of potato recipes, here are more not to miss:

To prepare the potato and onion casserole, start with the onions. Peel them, cut them in half and then into slices . Peel the red potatoes and cut them into slices 1/16-1/8 inch thick; for a thinner and more precise result, we recommend using a mandoline .
Proceed this way until you finish the potatoes . In a bowl, combine Pecorino and Parmesan , then mix with a spoon .
Grease a 12x9 inch baking dish and sprinkle with grated cheese . Arrange the potato slices, slightly overlapping them .
Season with salt, pepper , and fresh thyme leaves . Sprinkle with the grated cheese mix .
Add another layer of potatoes , season with salt , pepper, thyme, and sprinkle again with the cheese mix .
Proceed in this way to get a total of 4 layers of potatoes. Always season each layer with salt, pepper, thyme, and the cheese mix . After arranging the last layer of potatoes, add the onions on top . Salt and pepper.
Scent with fresh thyme and complete with the remaining cheese mix . Season the surface with a drizzle of oil .
Pour the milk into the 4 corners of the baking dish very slowly, being careful not to let it overflow . This will help make the preparation more moist. Bake in a preheated static oven at 430°F for 30 minutes. When it is well golden, take it out of the oven , let it cool slightly and serve your potato and onion casserole !
The potato and onion casserole can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. We recommend heating the casserole before serving.
You can enrich the casserole with your favorite cheese mix; if Pecorino is too strong, you can choose a milder one.

