name:
Kale Pesto
ingredients:
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 7.1oz(200 g)- (to clean)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2oz(60 g)- to be grated
Walnut kernels: ¼cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 5tbsp(70 g)
Dried chili pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Kale, numerous properties and endless ways to cook it in winter. But have you ever tried making kale pesto? A delicious winter alternative to the classic Genoese pesto or Sicilian pesto, made with walnuts, grated cheese, and of course good extra virgin olive oil! Creaminess and intense flavor, to spread on a slice of warm bread, to make a Pasta with Black Kale more inviting or as a filling for a savory pie! To soften the flavor, we decided to blanch the kale leaves and offer you a version Pesto without garlic , but if you prefer, you can prepare it raw and customize it to your taste.
Discover more recipes with kale:
To make the kale pesto, first clean the kale by separating the leaves from the central stem . Bring a pot of water to a boil and blanch the leaves for 3-5 minutes . Transfer the blanched kale to a blender .
Add the grated cheese , walnuts , salt, and chili pepper .
Add 1.4 oz of oil and start blending. While the blender is running, slowly pour in the remaining 1 oz of oil . When you achieve a creamy and homogeneous consistency, your kale pesto is ready !
Store the kale pesto in the fridge, in an airtight container, for 2-3 days, ensuring you cover the sauce with a layer of oil.
You can freeze the pesto in small jars and defrost it in the fridge or at room temperature.
For a stronger flavored pesto, you can add a clove of garlic with the core removed; you can also blanch it together with the kale leaves to make it more digestible.
If you prefer, you can make the kale pesto raw: it will have a more pungent flavor but will be equally tasty!
If you plan to use the pesto to dress pasta, we recommend salting the water in which the kale is blanched and then cooking the pasta directly in the cooking water.

