name:
Savory Cabbage Pie
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1roll- round
Verza (savoy cabbage): 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(70 g)- grated
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low

instructions:
The Savoy cabbage is a tasty and versatile winter vegetable... with its large and fleshy leaves, you can prepare many delicious dishes: for example, Savoy cabbage in a pan , the Verze sofegae , a rich and tasty Venetian side dish, or the rolls , perfect to serve as an appetizer, or the risotto , excellent as a first course! Today, we will use it to make a delicious savory pie that everyone will love! A truly delicious rustic dish, a one-pot meal suitable for the whole family. Alternatively, you can also cut the Savoy cabbage pie into cubes and use it to enrich a buffet for a party! It will also be great at room temperature!
To prepare the savory cabbage pie, first wash the Savoy cabbage leaves and lay them on a cutting board . Then cut them into fairly small pieces and set them aside. In a pan, place the diced bacon
and let it brown , without adding any other fats. Transfer it to a small plate and in the same pan, heat 2 tablespoons of oil with a clove of garlic . Let the garlic brown, then remove it and add the cabbage .
Add half a glass of water , salt, and cover the pan with a lid . Let it cook for 5 minutes, then add the browned bacon and black pepper .
Add 50 g (1.75 oz) of Parmesan cheese and stir . Then turn off the heat. Roll out a sheet of puff pastry inside a 12-inch mold, making sure the parchment paper is upward. This way you can easily remove it .
Make sure the pastry adheres well to the mold , transfer the cabbage inside, and press it gently with a wooden spoon . Sprinkle with the remaining grated cheese .
At this point , press the edge of the pastry with your finger to imprint a decoration . Bake in a preheated ventilated oven at 350°F for 30 minutes. Remove from the oven and serve your savory cabbage pie .
You can store the savory cabbage pie for up to 2 days in the refrigerator.
For a richer version, you can add mozzarella or creamy cheese like gorgonzola.

