name:
Tiramisu brownie
ingredients:
Dark chocolate 70%: 7.1oz(200 g)
Sugar: 0.8cup(160 g)
Butter: ½cup(120 g)
Type 00 flour: 2.8oz(80 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 0.67cup(80 g)
Eggs: 3
Mascarpone cheese: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Eggs: 2
Instant coffee: 1tsp
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Browniemisu or tiramisu brownie? You can call it whatever you prefer, but the result doesn't change! The chocolate brownie base is topped with a soft mascarpone and coffee cream that echoes the flavors of tiramisu . From this delicious fusion of Italian and American cuisine comes a simple and irresistible dessert! Ideal to cut into squares as in the original version, the tiramisu brownie is perfect to enjoy as a dessert after a meal or during the day for a well-deserved break... thanks to the ease of preparation, it's always the right time to savor these delicious bites.
Here are more brownie variations to try:

To prepare the tiramisu brownie, start with the brownie batter: chop the dark chocolate with a knife , place it in a saucepan with the butter , and melt everything over very low heat, stirring with a whisk .
In a separate bowl, place the eggs and sugar , then beat with an electric whisk until you obtain a light and frothy mixture . Add the cooled melted chocolate and mix with a hand whisk.
Add the flour and cocoa powder , stirring continuously with the whisk .
Pour the batter into a 8x8 inch baking pan lined with parchment paper , and bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for about 25 minutes . Once cooked, remove the brownie from the oven and let it cool .
In the meantime, prepare the tiramisu cream: separate the yolks from the whites into 2 bowls. Add the sugar to the yolks and beat with the whisk . Once you have a creamy mixture, add the mascarpone .
Continue mixing with the whisk. Now whip the egg whites until stiff and gently fold them into the yolk and mascarpone mixture using a spatula, moving from bottom to top.
Finally, add the instant coffee and mix until uniformly combined . Spread the cream over the surface of the cooled brownie .
Dust with cocoa powder and cut the brownie into squares . Your tiramisu brownie is ready to be served and enjoyed !
The tiramisu brownie can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day. If you use pasteurized eggs, it can be stored for 2-3 days.
The brownie without cream can be stored for 3-4 days at room temperature or can be frozen.
If you like, you can add toasted hazelnuts to the batter, as in the original version of brownies!
We recommend using very fresh eggs. If you want to avoid using raw eggs, you can purchase already pasteurized eggs from the supermarket. The homemade pasteurization process can help but does not guarantee 100% safety.

