name:
Potato Velouté
ingredients:
Yellow potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: 2spoonfuls
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Homemade bread: 3 ⅓cups(200 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Sweet Paprika: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The potato velouté is a simple first course yet rich in flavor, perfect for warming body and soul on the coldest days. Its delightful consistency comes from a perfect balance among the ingredients, with the addition of fresh cream making the velouté even silkier. But the real surprise comes with the croutons: a golden and crunchy dice, embellished with fresh herbs and a sprinkle of paprika, giving a vibrant spicy note. Potato velouté is not just a comfort food but a genuine treat for everyday winter dinners!
Here are some other delicious seasonal creams and veloutés:

To prepare the potato velouté, first peel the potatoes and cut them into slices and then cubes of about 1/2 inch . In a saucepan, add the butter .
Add the rosemary and let the butter melt over low heat. Add the cubed potatoes and cover with the vegetable broth .
Cover with the lid, increase the heat and bring to a boil, then lower the heat and let it cook for about 20 minutes. Meanwhile, cut the rustic bread into cubes of about 3/4 inch .
In a pan, heat the garlic clove and rosemary in a bit of olive oil. Add the bread cubes , season with paprika , and sauté over high heat until the bread is crispy .
Meanwhile, the potatoes will be cooked, so turn off the heat and blend with an immersion blender . Salt and add the fresh cream .
Stir and serve the potato velouté . Top with the croutons, a drizzle of raw olive oil, and a grind of black pepper. Your potato velouté is ready to be served !
The potato velouté can be stored in the refrigerator for 3 days in an airtight container.
If you wish, you can freeze it.
Instead of cream, you can add a fresh creamy cheese, like robiola, or plain yogurt.

