name:
Turkey roulade
ingredients:
Turkey breast: 1.1lbs(500 g)- sliced
Spinach: 7 ½cups(220 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 3.5oz(100 g)- sliced
Provola cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- sliced
White wine: ½cup(100 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The turkey roulade is a delicious and visually appealing main course, perfect for impressing your guests! The white meat of the turkey, lean and delicately flavored, deliciously wraps a filling of spinach, provolone cheese, and cooked ham, and remains tender and juicy thanks to the oven cooking in broth. The addition of the broth also allows for a sauce to be made to pour over the slices on the plate, making everything even more succulent and tasty. A dish of great impact, as we said, not only for its taste but also because you can say you made it entirely with your own hands!
After the turkey roulade, don't miss out on these tasty turkey roast recipes:

To prepare the turkey roulade, first make the vegetable broth following our recipe. Blanch the spinach in the broth , then let them drain to remove excess liquid and lightly salt them; save the broth because you will need it for baking the roll. Lay out a sheet of parchment paper on the work surface, pound the turkey breast slices and slightly overlap them to form a rectangle .
Spread the well-drained spinach to entirely cover the meat slices , then place the slices of cooked ham .
Finally, add the slices of provolone cheese . Roll everything from the longer side using the parchment paper to help , you should obtain a tight and compact roll. At this point, seal the roll obtained with string: first tie it lengthwise, then create loops a couple of fingers apart from each other .
Insert a sprig of rosemary into the string and salt the surface. Now heat a drizzle of oil in a large pan and brown the roll on all sides over high heat , then deglaze with wine and let it evaporate completely.
Transfer the roulade to a baking dish, add the broth , and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 30 minutes . After the cooking time, cut the roll into slices .
Plate garnishing with rosemary sprigs and drizzling the meat with the reduced cooking juices . Your turkey roulade is ready to be served !
The turkey roulade can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can replace provolone with another cheese like fontina or edam.
You can use vegetable or meat broth, as you prefer.

