name:
Pistachio and Orange Tart with Apricot Jam
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Pistachio flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Butter: 0.67cup(150 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Eggs: 1.75oz(50 g)- (about 1 medium)
Orange peel: 1- (to grate)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Fine salt: 0.3tsp(2 g)
Apricot jam: to taste
Butter: to taste
Egg yolks: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the pistachio and orange tart with apricot jam, start with the pastry: place the softened butter in a large bowl along with the sugar and salt .
Add the grated orange zest and mix everything by hand. Once you have a homogeneous mixture, add the egg .
Mix well to completely absorb it , then add the flour and baking powder .
Also add the pistachio flour and knead again to incorporate the powders, first in the bowl and then on the work surface . Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least a couple of hours .
After the resting time, lightly flour the dough and roll it out with a rolling pin to about 1/8 inch thickness . Place a 9-inch diameter pan on the pastry and cut it so that it covers both the base and the edges .
Butter the pan and line it with the pastry, then trim the edges . Fill the tart with apricot jam and level it with the back of a spoon .
Knead the pastry scraps again and roll them out to the same thickness, then cut out strips . Lay the strips first horizontally and then diagonally , trimming the excess with a knife.
Finally, brush with the beaten egg yolk . Bake in a static oven at 350°F for about 35 minutes , then remove and let cool. Your pistachio and orange tart with apricot jam is ready to be enjoyed !
The pistachio and orange tart with apricot jam can be stored at room temperature for 2-3 days.
You can prepare the pastry a day in advance and store it in the refrigerator, wrapped in plastic wrap.
Try replacing the Apricot Jam with a bitter orange marmalade!

