name:
Tortelli alla Carbonara
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(350 g)
Semolina: 5.3oz(150 g)- (+ as needed for the work surface)
Eggs: 5
Jowls: 0.9lb(400 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 2 ½cups(250 g)
Egg yolks: ¾cup(200 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 0.67cup(150 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3oz(80 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Delica pumpkin: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (to clean)
White onions: 0.4cup(60 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 2oz(60 g)
White wine vinegar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Water: 1glass
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 80 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour of resting for the fresh pasta and 8 hours for the filling

instructions:
If you are a fan of spaghetti carbonara , get ready to discover a surprising variant that will win you over at the first taste: carbonara tortelli, crafted by Francesco Vitale, chef of Remulass . This charming Milanese bistro is a culinary gem that combines modernity and tradition, enhancing local ingredients with creative and flavorful dishes. The recipe reinvents the authentic flavors of Roman carbonara in an innovative form: a creamy heart of eggs, Pecorino, and guanciale enclosed in a thin pasta shell, for an experience that highlights the soul of the original dish. To complete this delight, a sauce made from a silky sweet-and-sour pumpkin cream, which perfectly pairs with the grated Pecorino, creating an irresistible balance. Let yourself be seduced by the carbonara tortelli, a refined and tantalizing first course where every bite is a journey between tradition and innovation!
Here are other variations of classic carbonara:

To prepare the carbonara tortelli, start with the filling: cut the guanciale into strips , place it in a pan , turn on the low heat and brown it until golden. As it cooks, collect the fat from the pan and set it aside .
When the guanciale is well browned , let it dry on absorbent paper . In a metal bowl, combine the egg yolks, a little salt, plenty of pepper, and some of the reserved guanciale fat . Place the bowl over a bain-marie.
Whisk with a hand whisk until it forms a thick mixture similar to a zabaglione; you need to reach 140°F (60°C) for the perfect consistency . Off the heat, add the Parmesan, Pecorino, and mascarpone .
Mix everything with the whisk , then return to the bain-marie and cook until it reaches 140°F (60°C) again, stirring continuously . Once ready, taste and adjust the salt if necessary. Transfer the obtained cream into a pitcher .
Blend with an immersion mixer to get a smooth and homogeneous sauce . Transfer the filling into a piping bag without a nozzle and let it rest in the fridge for at least 8 hours.
To prepare the fresh pasta, place the flour and semolina on a work surface , mix it and create the classic fountain. Beat the eggs and pour them in the center .
Start kneading with a fork to gather the ingredients . Then continue kneading by hand, using a dough scraper to help . Once you have obtained a smooth, firm, and homogeneous dough, form a dough ball . Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest in the fridge for an hour.
For the pumpkin cream: peel and slice the onion julienne . Clean the pumpkin by removing the internal seeds and the skin .
Then cut 14 oz (400 g) of pulp into coarse pieces . In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil, add the onions and stew them with a pinch of salt until they are soft .
Add the diced pumpkin , pour in a glass of water and cook covered for about 15 minutes , until the pumpkin is cooked but dry.
When the pumpkin is cooked but dry, deglaze with vinegar , pepper, and cook for another 2 minutes. Blend the mixture with an immersion mixer , then pass it through a sieve to have a smooth and silky cream .
Take the pasta, take a portion and wrap the remaining in plastic wrap to prevent it from drying out. Roll out the pasta with a rolling pin to thin it enough to pass it through the pasta roller . Pass the sheet several times, gradually reducing the thickness until reaching the thinnest setting, it should be almost transparent .
Cut out discs with an 8 cm (3.15 inch) diameter cutter . Spray the sheets with water (or brush with a kitchen brush) and squeeze a dollop of filling in the center .
Now form the tortelli: fold the sheets in half making sure the edges stick well , thus creating half-moons .
Now join the ends pinching the edges from both sides . Place the tortelli on a tray lightly floured with semolina . You will get about 80 tortelli with these measurements.
Cook the tortelli in boiling water for 1.5-2 minutes maximum . Meanwhile, in a pan, pour a ladle of cooking water and a drizzle of oil .
Drain the tortelli here , pepper and sauté them for a few moments . On the serving plate, form quenelles with the pumpkin cream, then place the tortelli .
Complete with the guanciale and grated Pecorino . Serve your homemade carbonara tortelli immediately !
We recommend consuming carbonara tortelli immediately.
You can freeze raw tortelli: first place them on a tray to firm them up well in the freezer, then transfer them to more practical freezer bags.
If the fresh pasta dough turns out too soft, you can add some semolina.
Salt sparingly because both the Pecorino and guanciale have a very pronounced salty note!
To sauté the tortelli in the pan, you can use the leftover guanciale fat instead of oil.

