name:
Apple and Yogurt Cake
ingredients:
Golden delicious apples: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (approximately 4)
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Natural plain yogurt: ½cup(125 g)
Eggs: 3
Sunflower seed oil: 7 ½tbsp(100 g)
Baking powder: 3tsp(16 g)
Lemon peel: 1- (to be grated)
Lemon juice: to taste
Cinnamon powder: to taste
Brown sugar: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The time for apples has arrived, and with it also the desire for a good apple cake , and before the season ends we want to propose you to prepare a delicious recipe: the apple and yogurt cake! A simple and genuine homemade sweet, made with yogurt and seed oil: an apple cake without butter , but particularly delicious because it is rich in fruit cubes both in the batter and on the surface. Enjoy a slice of apple and yogurt cake for breakfast or offer it to children for a snack that has all the flavor of the good things from home!
Try also the variant of the yogurt and apple plumcake and satisfy your craving for apple cake with these other recipes:

To prepare the apple and yogurt cake, first peel the apples , then cut 2 into cubes and 2 into slices .
Place the apples into 2 separate bowls and drizzle with lemon juice to prevent them from browning . Break the eggs into another bowl, then add the sugar and grated lemon zest .
Mix with electric beaters until you get a creamy mixture , then add the cinnamon and yogurt .
Also, pour in the seed oil and blend everything with the beaters . At this point, add the sifted flour and baking powder .
Incorporate the dry ingredients with a spatula, gently mixing from bottom to top . Finally, add the apple cubes and mix again to incorporate them evenly .
Pour the batter into a 9-inch diameter pan lined with parchment paper , level the surface, and garnish with apple slices, arranging them in a fan shape . Sprinkle with brown sugar and bake in a preheated convection oven at 340°F for about 45 minutes .
After the baking time, remove from the oven and let it cool slightly , then sprinkle with powdered sugar to taste . Your apple and yogurt cake is ready to be enjoyed !
The apple and yogurt cake can be stored at room temperature for 2-3 days, covered with a cake dome.
As an alternative to cinnamon, you can flavor the apple and yogurt cake with the seeds of a vanilla pod.
If you wish, you can enrich the batter with pine nuts or raisins!
Instead of golden apples, you can use renette or pink lady apples.

