name:
Lasagna with Pesto and Ricotta
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3
Salt: 1pinch
Milk: 2cups(500 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.3cup(40 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Genoese pesto (Basil sauce): ¾cup(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.1cups(100 g)- grated

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + resting time for the dough in the fridge (30 min.) + and cooked lasagna (10 min.)

instructions:
Lasagna with pesto and ricotta is an irresistible vegetarian alternative to traditional Lasagna Bolognese . The Homemade Ricotta , with its soft texture, blends harmoniously with the basil pesto creating a filling that pairs excellently with the thin sheet of fresh egg pasta . The béchamel sauce enriches each layer of the lasagna with its creamy touch, and a generous sprinkle of Parmesan completes everything! A main course perfect to serve for a family lunch or a dinner with friends, which also works as the main dish for special occasion menus. Once you've tried it, lasagna with pesto and ricotta will become a secret weapon to note in your recipe book!
Also try these variations:

To prepare lasagna with pesto and ricotta, first arrange the flour in a mound and pour the eggs in the center . Add the salt and begin to incorporate the flour with a fork .
Knead with your hands until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough . Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the béchamel sauce: melt the butter in a saucepan and season with salt and pepper . In the meantime, heat the milk in a separate saucepan.
Flavor with nutmeg . When the butter is melted, add the flour and cook for 2 minutes over low heat, stirring continuously .
When the roux is formed, pour the hot milk and bring to a boil. Allow to thicken over the fire, stirring continuously until the desired consistency is reached . Keep warm until ready to use. After the resting time of the dough, take the dough and roll it out with the help of a pasta machine to obtain sheets about 1/16 inches thick .
Cut the sheets to the size of the baking dish you will be using . Blanch the sheets, one at a time, in salted boiling water . Drain and cool them immediately, immersing them in a bowl of cold water .
Finally, lay them on a clean towel to dry well . You are ready to assemble the lasagna: spread a couple of tablespoons of béchamel sauce on the bottom of the dish , then cover with a sheet .
Sprinkle the surface with more béchamel sauce , then do the same with the pesto and distribute dollops of ricotta .
Sprinkle with Parmesan and continue to layer in this way until the ingredients are used up. Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 25 minutes. Remove from the oven and let rest for 10 minutes before serving. Your lasagna with pesto and ricotta is ready to be enjoyed !
Lasagna with pesto and ricotta can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap or in a closed container, for 2-3 days.
If you wish, you can substitute ricotta with a burrata cream or add mozzarella pieces for a gooey effect.
Have fun creating new variations by replacing basil pesto with arugula pesto or walnut pesto!
For a crunchy note, you can add walnut, almond, or pine nut crumbles between layers.

