name:
Semolina Bread
ingredients:
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1.3cups(150 g)
Water: 5.1tbsp(75 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.1oz(1.5 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 5 ½cups(600 g)
Type 0 flour: 3.5oz(100 g)
Water: 2 ¼cups(520 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.1oz(4 g)
Fine salt: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste- to grease the bowl
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low
Note plus resting and rising times (21 hours)

instructions:
Baking bread at home is a new trend that revives our old traditions: it is relaxing and satisfying, yielding a genuine and long-lasting product, like semolina bread! Making it will be really simple, respecting the indicated rest and rising times. Only in this way, in fact, you will get a perfectly baked bread, characterized by a crispy crust and a very soft crumb. The semolina will impart a rustic taste and a golden color, typically characteristic of this flour.
Try other recipes for making bread at home:
If you love doughs with semolina, also try our pizza , Apulian bread and Peasant bread !
To prepare semolina bread, the first thing you need to do is make the starter dough. Pour the water into a bowl, add the crumbled yeast , and mix until dissolved . Pour the semolina into another bowl and add the water in which you dissolved the yeast .
Knead with your hands until you get homogeneous crumbs, without leaving any flour in the bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise at room temperature for 18 hours. It's normal if the starter dough hasn't increased in volume after the indicated time .
After this time, make the dough. If the bowl in which you made the starter dough is small, transfer it to a larger one. Add the semolina , all-purpose flour, and crumbled yeast . Also, add the water .
Knead directly with your hands until you get a homogeneous mixture , then add the salt and continue kneading.
Transfer the dough to the workbench and knead until it becomes smooth . Transfer it to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let it rest for 10 minutes.
Transfer the dough back to the workbench . Take one edge of the dough, stretch it gently, and bring it towards the center . Repeat this operation for the other 3 sides .
Flip the dough and shape it into a ball . Transfer it to a greased bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise for 3 hours at room temperature, or until it has doubled in volume .
Now transfer the dough to a lightly floured workbench with semolina . Flatten it gently with your hands . Lift the left edge and fold it inward. Do the same with the right edge .
Then lift the central part and flip it over , then roll the dough until you form a well-sealed loaf .
Now place it on a baking sheet with parchment paper . Let it rise for about half an hour, uncovered . At this point, dust the loaf with semolina flour using a sieve .
Using a razor blade, make the first diagonal cut on the loaf , then make other parallel cuts . Bake in a preheated static oven at 482°F for 35 minutes on the middle rack. After this time, open the oven to release the moisture that has formed and lower the temperature to 356°F. Close it and finish baking for another 10 minutes. The bread will then be ready to be removed from the oven . Transfer it to a rack and let it cool completely before slicing it.
Semolina bread can be stored for 3 days in a paper bag. Once baked and cooled, you can slice it and freeze it.
Add flax or sunflower seeds to the dough.

