name:
Chocolate Bundt Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Dark chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 0.8cup(185 g)
Eggs: 9.2oz(260 g)- (approximately 4 at room temperature)
Whole milk: (80 g)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
It's soft, fragrant, and has an unmistakable flavor... that taste that takes us back to childhood and the timeless goodness of homemade snacks. If the bundt cake has always deserved a place of honor in the ranking of the most loved desserts, the chocolate bundt cake is certainly no less! A genuine recipe that we have already tried in other delicious variants like the one with coconut filling or filled Chocolate ring cake with hazelnut cream ... but the best things, as we know, are often the simplest, and for this reason, we are sure that the chocolate bundt cake will win the heart of your whole family! Try also:
To prepare the chocolate bundt cake, first chop the dark chocolate with a knife , melt it in a double boiler or in the microwave, and let it cool completely . Pour the eggs and the seeds from the vanilla pod into a stand mixer fitted with whisks (or use electric whisks and a bowl) , and start whisking
and add the sugar . When the mixture has become frothy, pour in the oil in a thin stream and the cooled melted chocolate, still keeping the mixer running .
At this point, sift the dry ingredients and add the flour and the baking powder, one tablespoon at a time . When the dry ingredients are well incorporated into the mixture, add a pinch of salt
and the milk in a thin stream and continue whisking to obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture . Butter a 10-inch diameter bundt cake pan and pour the mixture inside .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 55-60 minutes, placing the pan on the lower rack and always testing with a skewer before removing from the oven. Once cooked , let the cake cool inside the pan, then remove it and let it cool completely on a wire rack . Your chocolate bundt cake is ready to be enjoyed !
The chocolate bundt cake can be stored at room temperature for 2-3 days, preferably covered with a glass dome. You can freeze it after baking, even cut into slices.
You can make your bundt cake even more delicious by adding chocolate chips to the batter!

