name:
Hot Milk Muffins
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(220 g)
Eggs: 5.8oz(165 g)- (approximately 3)
Sugar: 0.7cup(140 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp(8 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(130 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Granulated sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
We loved the hot milk sponge cake , with its uniquely fluffy and irresistible texture, so we were tempted by a single-serving version: hot milk muffins. We were inspired by the original procedure, which ensures the typical softness that made this dessert so famous. Great to enjoy for breakfast with a cup of coffee, these muffins can also become a healthy and genuine snack for your children. To add a tasty touch, we've added a handful of sugar sprinkles, but nothing stops you from garnishing the muffins with a velvety ganache or enriching them with chocolate pieces!
Also try these delicious variants of the hot milk cake:
To make the hot milk muffins, start by beating the eggs and sugar with electric beaters until you get a frothy mixture. With the beaters still running, incorporate the flour .
the baking powder , the lemon zest and mix carefully to obtain a homogeneous mixture .

Pour the milk into a saucepan and, as soon as it approaches a boil, add the butter and let it melt .
Take about 4 tablespoons of the mixture and transfer them to a small bowl . Pour the hot milk into it and mix with a spatula to obtain a sort of batter .
Now pour everything into the rest of the eggs, sugar, and flour mixture and mix . Place paper liners in a 12-muffin tin and fill with the mixture .
Distribute sugar sprinkles on the surface and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 20 minutes. Remove the hot milk muffins from the oven and let them cool slightly before serving .
Hot milk muffins can be stored for 2-3 days under a glass dome at room temperature. They can be frozen once baked, but it's not advisable to freeze the batter. Once the batter is ready, it is preferable to proceed immediately with baking.
You can use almond or soy milk instead of cow's milk. However, for this type of batter, it's preferable not to add chocolate chips. If you really can't resist this indulgent addition, you can cover the muffins with chocolate glaze after baking, as an alternative to the sugar sprinkles.

