name:
Winter Farro Salad
ingredients:
Pearled farro: 1.6cups(320 g)
Brussels sprouts: 10.6oz(300 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 4.3cups(300 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 5.3oz(150 g)- (whole piece)
Provolone cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Carrots: 1 ¼cup(130 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
We usually associate Spelt salad with vegetables with the warm season as it is ideal to prepare in advance and enjoy Cold Farro Salad , like the Summer barley and spelt salad . So why not make it for winter too, maybe for lunch at the office? That's how the idea of winter farro salad was born! No zucchini and cherry tomatoes in this case, but champignon mushrooms and pan-fried Brussels sprouts with added cooked ham, provolone, and carrots for a truly colorful and appetizing dish. With winter farro salad, lunchtime won't be sad and monotonous anymore, and dinners with friends will become a great occasion to present it again!
To prepare the winter farro salad, first bring a pot of water to boil to cook the farro. Clean the Brussels sprouts by removing the stem and damaged outer leaves, then rinse them under running water and cut them in half . Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan along with a clove of garlic, add the sprouts , and sauté them for a minute over high heat, then salt and pour in the water .
Cover with a lid, slightly lower the flame, and cook for 8 minutes . Now clean the mushrooms with a cloth to remove any soil residues , then slice them thinly .
In another pan, heat a swirl of oil with a clove of garlic, add the mushrooms , salt, pepper, and cook over high heat for 5 minutes ; they should still be crunchy. At this point, the water will have reached a boil, so salt it and cook the farro for the time indicated on the package .
In the meantime, dice the cooked ham , provolone , and carrots .
When the farro is cooked, drain it and pour it into a bowl. Season the farro with a drizzle of oil , mix, and add both the sprouts and mushrooms, after removing the garlic from both .
Add the cheese and ham , then pepper to taste .
Finally, add the carrots and mix everything well . Your winter farro salad is ready to be enjoyed !
The winter farro salad can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
If you don't like Brussels sprouts, you can replace them with cauliflower or fennel!

