name:
Strangolapreti alla trentina
ingredients:
Spinach: 22cups(650 g)
Bread: 2.8oz(80 g)- (stale or dry)
Whole milk: 1.67cups(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Eggs: 2- (medium)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(160 g)
Breadcrumbs: 0.3cup(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Butter: 5.67tbsp(80 g)
Sage: to taste
Trentingrana cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The Strangolapreti from Trentino are a truly ancient recipe, consisting of very special gnocchi made with stale bread and spinach. Chef Alessandro Gilmozzi will show us how to shape these soft cones, perfect to serve as a first course. The historical recipe called for much more bread and fewer spinach. It has since evolved, offering variations and little secrets that each family and restaurateur holds for making the strangolapreti, as you will discover from the chef's recipe. Thanks to the abundance of plants and herbs in Trentino, spinach was often (and still is) replaced with nettles, purslane, or just herbs and chard. A smaller base of spinach could be flavored with herbs like tarragon, marjoram, and oregano. The strangolapreti are seasoned with butter and sage, just like Alessandro Gilmozzi suggests, but you can also add speck or bacon. To fully immerse yourself in the magical atmosphere of Trentino, also discover canederli and spätzle , two other typical first courses! But don't miss other delicious gnocchi like the Tuscan gnudi , or the variation with black kale gnudi !
To prepare the Strangolapreti from Trentino, first cook the spinach. You will need 1.5 lbs fresh to obtain 10.5 oz cooked and very well squeezed. If using fresh spinach, blanch them in slightly salted water for a few minutes. If using bagged spinach, you can steam them. Remove the crust from the buns (you can use it as indicated in the tip at the end of the recipe!) and cut the crumb into 3/8-inch cubes for the strangolapreti. Transfer them into a bowl , add about half the amount of milk and the oil .
Lightly mix and set aside. Pour the squeezed spinach into a narrow and tall container , add the remaining milk .
Add the eggs and season with salt and pepper. Also, add the nutmeg .
Blend everything with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth cream . Then pour the spinach cream into the bowl with the bread .
Mix with a wooden spoon . Add the flour and breadcrumbs .
Mix again with the spoon , then finish the dough by briefly working it with your hands to feel the consistency . Let it rest for a few minutes. Moisten two tablespoons .
and take a portion of the dough, about half a tablespoon . Transfer the first mound onto a well-floured cloth and continue this way with the others . Quenelles will form.
Dust the mounds with a little flour and work each one with your hands , rounding them slightly like canederli, but pressing slightly to create a conical shape . Occasionally, flour your hands well; this will make it easier to work the mixture and keep them better during cooking. If you prefer, you can make the classic quenelle shape by working the mixture with just the two moistened spoons . You will still need to dust lightly with flour.
Put two pots of water on the stove, which will be used to cook the gnocchi. Salt the water, and as soon as it starts to simmer, dip in a few gnocchi at a time . Since the cooking is delicate, at least two pots are needed to cook them all together. If you reduce the doses or can cook them a bit at a time, you can also use just one. Meanwhile, also prepare the seasoning. In a pan, add butter and sage , let the butter melt and flavor the leaves .
As soon as the gnocchi float to the surface, wait 2-3 minutes and then drain them . It will take about 8 minutes in total. Drain them and keep them in a bowl. Meanwhile, cook the others. Then transfer the gnocchi onto a plate , garnish with plenty of grated Trentingrana .
Add plenty of melted butter and decorate with the sage leaves . Serve the Trentino gnocchi hot !
The gnocchi dough can be stored in the refrigerator for a day. Once cooked, we recommend serving them immediately; alternatively, you can store them in the fridge for a day and reheat them before serving.
It is recommended to serve 5-6 pieces per person. For the bread: choose a bread without oil, white rosettes or michette will do just fine.
Don't throw away the bread crust that you remove: toast it lightly to make homemade breadcrumbs!
Remember to squeeze the spinach very well, otherwise, the consistency of the gnocchi may suffer from excess water, not resulting in a firm texture during cooking.
A small tip when breaking the eggs: always do it on the work surface and never directly on the edges of the bowl, pan, or container you are using.
Instead of Trentingrana, you can use Grana Padano DOP or a aged, extra-aged hard cheese.
The term strangolapreti (or Strozzapreti ) also refers to a fresh pasta shaped like twists typical of Emilia Romagna, made only with water and flour.

