name:
Barley and Broccoli Salad
ingredients:
Spelt: 1cup(120 g)
Broccoli: 3.3cups(300 g)- cleaned
Walnut kernels: 2oz(50 g)
Dried tomatoes: 4tbsp(30 g)
Black olives: ¼cup(50 g)- pitted
Gorgonzola cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Kale and broccoli, as we know, are not usually among the most loved vegetables, yet with just a few tricks you can make them versatile in the kitchen and enrich our winter table. Try, for example, our broccoli risotto , irresistibly creamy, or the Penne with five types of cabbage , colorful and appealing. Continuing along this line, we present the barley and broccoli salad, a perfect dish for a lunch on colder days, also ideal as a packed lunch to take to work. Genuine and very simple to prepare, this barley and broccoli salad is enriched with tempting ingredients like sun-dried tomatoes and olives, a clever way to eat healthier without sacrificing taste!
To prepare the barley and broccoli salad, place a pot filled with water over the heat and salt it once boiling before adding the barley . Cook for about 15 minutes or according to the times indicated on the package. In the meantime, clean the broccoli: separate the florets and boil them for 10 minutes .
Once the broccoli is cooked, you can drain them . Place them on a cutting board and chop them into small pieces . Drain the sun-dried tomatoes from the oil and also cut them into small pieces .
Cut the gorgonzola into cubes , coarsely chop the walnut kernels , and slice the pitted olives into rounds .
Meanwhile, the barley should be cooked; drain it well and transfer it to a large bowl. Now everything is ready to assemble the salad: season with oil and add the sun-dried tomatoes, walnuts, and olives here .
Continue by incorporating also the broccoli and the diced gorgonzola . Mix and serve the barley and broccoli salad .
You can prepare the barley and broccoli salad in advance and store it in the refrigerator in a closed container for a couple of days. We do not recommend freezing.
Don't throw away the broccoli stems! Blend them in the mixer and use them to make a flavorful and genuine risotto, or simply add them to your vegetable soup!

