name:
Crispy Zucchini Fritters
ingredients:
Zucchini: 1.5lbs(370 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Beer: 5.5oz(155 g)- cold
Water: (155 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: 1.3cups(300 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 22 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
How delicious are zucchini fritters ? Today we want to give you a new and appetizing version. The crispy zucchini fritters are made with a beer-based batter and an addition of Grana that makes them super tasty. What makes them so crispy is definitely the batter, but using very thinly sliced zucchini will surely contribute to the success of the recipe. The crispy zucchini fritters are great to serve as an appetizer or to enjoy with your friends for an aperitif. Making them is really simple, just get to the stove! If you loved this recipe, we recommend you also try: Fritters of Trombetta Zucchini and Its Flowers , fried zucchini, and Zucchini in Batter ! And lastly, the zucchini and pecorino clouds that are super crunchy!
To prepare the crispy zucchini fritters, first pour the flour, Grana , and salt into a bowl. Mix the dry ingredients with a spatula ,
and while continuing to mix, add the beer and the water . You should get a smooth, lump-free batter .
Wash the zucchini, trim them, and slice them into rounds about 1/16 inch thick . Pour them into the batter just prepared and mix to combine everything .
Add black pepper and mix again . In a large pan, heat the oil. As soon as it reaches a temperature of 340°F, using two spoons, immerse some of the mixture in the oil to form the fritters . Fry in batches, so as not to lower the oil temperature.
Fry for 2-3 minutes, then flip the fritters , finish cooking for another 2-3 minutes and, using a slotted spoon, drain the fritters on a tray with paper towels. Continue with the cooking of the others and serve them while still hot !
We recommend serving the crispy zucchini fritters as soon as they are prepared!
You can flavor the crispy zucchini fritters by adding chopped herbs to the batter. For example, thyme, marjoram, or mint. Serve the fritters with mayonnaise, a yogurt sauce, or even an avocado cream.

