name:
Mediterranean Pasta
ingredients:
Tortiglioni pasta: 14.1oz(400 g)
Red peppers: 1lb(450 g)
Zucchini: 1cup(200 g)
Eggplant: 1lb(450 g)
Onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 14oz(400 g)
Spicy Provolone cheese: to taste
Vegetable oil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Mediterranean is one of the most loved sauces and reminds us of the various, delicious types of ingredients the territory offers. Thanks to Mediterranean pasta, we thought of making a delicious collection of summer vegetables that enrich the pasta. This main course is simple and fairly quick if you prepare everything in the right order. Mediterranean pasta is a vegetarian and tantalizing first dish that will win you over, don't believe it? You just have to try!
With Mediterranean sauce, you can also prepare tasty dishes like:
To prepare Mediterranean pasta, start with the vegetables. After cleaning the onion, chop it with a knife . Clean the bell peppers and cut them into 1-inch pieces .
Heat some extra virgin olive oil in a pan and let the onion stew for a few minutes , then add the bell peppers and sauté them for a few minutes as well . Finally, add the chopped peeled tomatoes and cook over low heat for 15 minutes .
In the meantime, clean and cut the eggplants into 1-inch cubes , and fry them in hot vegetable oil at 350°F , making sure to drain them when golden. Meanwhile, clean and cut the zucchini into rounds .
Fry these as well and subsequently drain them when golden . Once the fried vegetables are ready, put them in the pot with the sauce and let them season for the time it takes to cook the pasta .
Adjust the salt, mix , and add a little hot water to prevent the base from drying out too much . Cook the tortiglioni in boiling salted water .
Drain the pasta al dente directly into the sauce and let it season before plating. Grate the spicy provolone and your Mediterranean pasta is ready .
It is recommended to consume Mediterranean pasta immediately.
If you don't want to fry and prefer a lighter version, you can grill the eggplants and zucchini and add them to the sauce.

