name:
Paccheri with Cuttlefish and Peas
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Cuttlefish: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (already cleaned)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Peas: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.67cup(150 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Shallot: 1
Lemon juice: 1spoonful
Fine salt: to taste
Almond slices: 1cup(100 g)
Lemon peel: 1- untreated
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Cuttlefish and peas : a guaranteed successful combination, so much that we wanted to savor it even with pasta for a truly inviting first course, paccheri with cuttlefish and peas! The choice of paccheri is not accidental because this format is excellent for holding fish sauces, squid , crustaceans , and Schiaffoni (or paccheri) with seafood . This time the cuttlefish will be the protagonists, diving into a soft and velvety pea cream, contrasting with the crunchiness of toasted almonds. The fresh final notes of lemon and mint will make everything even more appetizing... try the paccheri with cuttlefish and peas and let us know what you think! And if you are fans of this pasta format, also try our Baked Paccheri !
To prepare paccheri with cuttlefish and peas, first, pour the cuttlefish into a pan with hot oil and sauté them for a few minutes. Once they curl up , transfer them to a bowl and set the pan with the cooking juices aside. Finely chop the shallot and proceed to the pea cream.
Melt the butter in a saucepan over low heat, add the shallot and let it soften for a few minutes. Then add the peas , stir, and cover with the cream .
Cook for 10-15 minutes over medium heat . Meanwhile, toast the sliced almonds in a non-stick pan, being careful not to burn them . Also, put a pot of water for the pasta on the stove to boil and salt it when it comes to a boil.
When the peas have softened, blend everything with an immersion blender , then add the lemon juice and season with salt . You should obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream.
Pour the paccheri into the salted boiling water and cook them very al dente . Meanwhile, strain the pea cream into the pan where you cooked the cuttlefish . Drain the paccheri into the pan .
Add a ladle of the cooking water and finish cooking the paccheri together with the sauce . During the last minute, also add the cuttlefish, keeping a few aside for decoration . Sauté everything again and turn off the heat.
Flavor with the grated lemon zest , drizzle with a bit of raw oil , and garnish with the cuttlefish set aside .
Finally, add a few mint leaves and the toasted almonds . Your paccheri with cuttlefish and peas are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the paccheri with cuttlefish and peas immediately. Alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for a maximum of one day.
If the cream is not enough to cover the peas while cooking, add a ladle of water.

