name:
Paccheri with cream, sausage, and zucchini
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Sausage: 0.6lb(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Zucchini: 2
Onions: ½
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Walnuts: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The paccheri with cream, sausage, and zucchini is an irresistibly creamy first course of homemade cuisine that will give a boost to your weekly menus. Initially, there was the pasta with sausage , appreciated for its simplicity and authentic taste, and just by adding one ingredient, a tasty variation like Pasta with zucchini and sausage was born. With these delicious paccheri, we've made everyday pasta even more appetizing. The result will win you over at the first bite!
Don't miss out on other mouth-watering recipes:
To prepare the paccheri with cream, sausage, and zucchini, start by trimming the zucchini, then cut them in half , remove the seedy part of the pulp , and then cut them into cubes . Set them aside in a bowl.
In a pan, add the sausage, with the casing removed , break it up by crushing it with a wooden spoon and brown it for a few minutes until it is well golden . Place it in a bowl and set aside .
In the same pan, add a drizzle of oil , the chopped onion , and sauté over moderate heat for a few minutes, then add the zucchini .
Salt and pepper and cook for 3 minutes. Add the cream and cook for 2-3 minutes. Meanwhile, cook the paccheri al dente .
Drain the paccheri into the pan and finish cooking , adding pasta cooking water as needed, to avoid drying out the sauce too much. Turn off the heat and add the sausage .
Add the Parmesan cheese and the chopped parsley , toss and plate your paccheri with cream, sausage, and zucchini with chopped walnuts .
We recommend consuming the paccheri with cream, sausage, and zucchini immediately.
If you wish, you can replace the walnuts with pistachios, hazelnuts, or chopped almonds, to maintain the crunchy note of the dish! The zucchini scraps will be perfect for enriching a vegetable broth.

