name:
Sweet Carnival Cappelletti
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(25 g)- soft
Eggs: 2
Lemon peel: ½- (to be grated)
Baking powder: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1pinch
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: 0.4cup(90 g)
Sugar: 5tsp(20 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 1tbsp(15 g)
Orange peel: ½- (to be grated)
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Note + the time to drain the ricotta (at least 2 h) and the dough resting time (30 min.)

instructions:
Cappelletti filled with ricotta and chocolate? No, it's not a joke but a delicious Carnival dessert! The sweet Carnival cappelletti, in fact, resemble the appearance of this typical filled pasta shape but are made with shortcrust pastry and baked in the oven. Inside the crunchy shell, you'll find a soft heart made of sheep's ricotta enriched with dark chocolate chips, cinnamon, and orange zest. A creative idea that revisits the shape of classic Sweet Carnival Ravioli without forgetting traditional flavors, to be made with simple, affordable, and easily available ingredients... all more than valid reasons to add sweet Carnival cappelletti to the party buffet!
To make the sweet Carnival cappelletti, first, place the ricotta in a sieve and let it drain for about an hour . Meanwhile, prepare the dough: place the flour in a mound on the work surface, then add the soft butter cut into cubes and the sugar in the center.
Also add the grated lemon zest , baking powder , and a pinch of salt .
Lastly, pour in the beaten eggs and gradually incorporate them into the flour with a fork . Continue working with your hands to blend the ingredients well .
Once you've obtained a smooth and homogeneous dough ball, wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes . Take the ricotta, which will have drained the excess liquid, and transfer it to a bowl, then add the sugar and the grated orange zest .
Add the chocolate chips and cinnamon as well, then mix well to combine everything .
After the dough's resting time, roll it out on a lightly floured work surface to a thickness of about 1/16 inch . Trim the edges with a pastry cutter and cut out squares of about 2 inches . The scraps can be reworked and rolled out again.
Place a teaspoon of filling in the center of each square . Fold the pasta square into a triangle to seal the filling inside , then bring the 2 corners of the base downwards and pinch them together. If the dough is a bit dry, you can slightly moisten the edges with a little water to help it stick.
As you form the cappelletti, place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Once they are all ready, mix the egg yolk with the milk and use the resulting mixture to brush the surface of the cappelletti .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 330°F for about 25 minutes, then take them out and let them cool before dusting with powdered sugar . Your sweet Carnival cappelletti are ready to be enjoyed !
The sweet Carnival cappelletti can be stored for a couple of days at room temperature, covered with a cake dome.
If you prefer, you can prepare the shortcrust in advance and store it in the refrigerator for a couple of days, wrapped in plastic wrap.
When forming the cappelletti, it is very important to seal the edges of the triangle well, otherwise the filling will leak out during cooking.
If you prefer, you can substitute the chocolate chips with raisins or shredded coconut, or flavor the filling with vanilla seeds or extract.

