name:
Delicious Carnival Chiacchiere
ingredients:
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- soft
Eggs: 3
Egg yolks: 1
Grappa: 1oz(30 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Sugar: 5 ½tbsp(70 g)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(6 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp- in dough
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Dark chocolate: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
This year, the Carnival buffet, the most joyful party of the year, will be even richer with delicious Carnival chiacchiere! Many names for the same homemade recipe that requires few and simple ingredients: from North to South, each region has its own specific way of calling these carnival delights, easy and fast, with a rustic yet timeless taste. To give a boost to the most beloved fried desserts of all time, we have added to the traditional recipe a tempting dark chocolate drizzle, which will make them even more appetizing. Try also the other delicious variations of this Carnival sweet:
Discover also other delightful fried and baked Carnival sweets!
To prepare the delicious Carnival chiacchiere, pour the flour into the bowl of the stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. Add the sugar , salt, beaten eggs , and grappa .
Mix until well combined , then add the vanilla extract and butter , kneading until you obtain a homogeneous dough. If necessary, you can add 1-2 teaspoons of water.
Transfer the dough onto a work surface and quickly shape it into a ball . Wrap the dough with plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature for at least 30 minutes. After this time, divide the dough into portions of about 5 oz each and start working each one individually (in the meantime, cover the rest of the dough to prevent it from drying out).
Slightly flatten the dough ball, flour it, and pass it through the pasta machine set to the widest thickness. Fold the short sides of the pasta strip towards the center , then pass it again, each time setting the pasta machine to a thinner setting , until reaching 1/16 inch thickness.
Repeat the same procedure with the remaining dough. Let the rolled-out dough rest for a few minutes. Heat the seed oil to a temperature of 302-320°F. Use a fluted pastry wheel to cut rectangles of about 2x4 inches and make two cuts in the center of each . Fry 2-3 rectangles of dough and cook them by turning them on both sides until golden. Drain the sheets on absorbent paper .
Chop the dark chocolate and melt it in a bain-marie or in the microwave . Use parchment paper to make a cone following our guide how to make a parchment cone .
Decorate with the dark chocolate and dust with powdered sugar . The delicious Carnival chiacchiere are ready to be served .
Enjoy the chiacchiere immediately, but if you wish, you can store them for 2-3 days in a paper bag.
You can substitute the grappa with white wine or orange juice.

