name:
Pinwheel Cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4.8cups(600 g)
Butter: 0.9lb(200 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Eggs: 8.5oz(240 g)- (about 4 medium)
Baking powder: 2tsp(8 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Food coloring: to taste- in gel (red, yellow, green, purple, orange, aqua green)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for the dough in the fridge (at least 2 hours)

instructions:
Today we are making cookies, but not the usual shortbreads; instead, a special recipe dedicated to Carnival: pinwheel cookies! Delicious sweets on sticks with cheerful and vibrant colors, made with very few ingredients: a simple butter shortcrust pastry enriched with food coloring. Easy and fun to prepare at home with the kids, these pinwheel cookies are perfect for a fun homemade snack or for a party buffet, perhaps alongside other carnival-themed sweets like masks, confetti and streamers!
To make the pinwheel cookies, start by preparing the dough: pour the flour onto your work surface, then add the sugar , the baking powder , and the grated lemon zest .
Add the diced butter and work quickly with your fingertips to achieve a crumbly mixture . At this point, add the eggs that you have beaten separately .
Knead quickly, just enough time to compact the ingredients . Form a dough ball , then divide it into 6 parts, each weighing 7 oz .
Add a different color to each part and knead to mix evenly .
Once all the dough balls are colored, wrap them in plastic wrap and let them rest in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours. After this time, divide the dough into small portions weighing 0.35 oz and form sticks about 4 inches long .
Place one stick of each color side by side and press lightly to stick them together , then roll everything up to form a pinwheel . Insert a long skewer through the pinwheel and continue this way to form all the others.
Place the pinwheels on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 15 minutes. Once baked, remove from the oven and let cool . Your pinwheel cookies are ready to be enjoyed !
The pinwheel cookies can be stored for 5-6 days in a tin box.
Customize your pinwheel cookies using the colors you prefer!

