name:
Carnival Chiacchiere: fried, baked and filled
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- soft
Sugar: ⅓cup(70 g)
Eggs: 3
Egg yolks: 1
Grappa: 1.1oz(30 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(6 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Vegetable oil: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste
Jam: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
We show you how to prepare carnival chiacchiere: fried, baked, and filled! With a single dough, you can create the recipe you prefer, or make a mix of the three variants! Undisputed stars of the Carnival, the chiacchiere are a dessert prepared all over Italy. Depending on where they are made, they have a different name and recipe, with some making them thicker and others thinner, some softer and others crunchier, some sprinkled with sugar and others with honey. Chiacchiere, frappe, bugie , cenci, and "lattughe" are some of the ways these delicious treats are named, and they usually all share the same cooking method: frying. But since we love to please everyone, today we have chosen to also show you how to prepare Baked Chiacchiere and an even more indulgent version: filled chiacchiere , with your favorite jam! We recommend trying them all, using the same dough will be a breeze! And if you are fans of carnival sweets, also try our carnival desserts, fried and baked and don't miss these recipes:
To prepare carnival chiacchiere: fried, baked, and filled, first make the dough. In a bowl, pour the flour , baking powder , and sugar .
Add a pinch of salt , 3 eggs along with the yolk , and the grappa .
Start kneading with a spoon and then work for a few minutes by hand . Pour the softened butter into a bowl, add the seeds from the vanilla pod , and mash it with a fork.
Once you have obtained a cream , add it to the dough and work it again with your hands in the bowl .
When the mixture begins to take shape, transfer it to a work surface and knead it for about ten minutes until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough . It should be firm yet pliable. If it's too hard, add 5-10g of water. Wrap it with plastic wrap and let it rest for 30 minutes at room temperature .
To prepare baked chiacchiere, after the dough has rested, take a portion and keep the rest well covered. Lightly dust with some flour and flatten it first with your hands .
Then pass it several times through a pasta machine, gradually reducing the thickness and folding the dough before inserting it again. You should obtain strips 1/16 inch thick . Let the sheets dry slightly for a few minutes, then use a fluted pastry wheel to cut rectangles approximately 2x4 inches .
Make diagonal slits in the center , then blanch the chiacchiere in boiling water until they float. Drain them with a slotted spoon and transfer them to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Try to give them some shape with your hands, without flattening them completely , and bake in a preheated fan oven at 390°F for 5 minutes on one side and 5 minutes on the other. When they are nicely golden, remove them from the oven , let them cool slightly, and dust with powdered sugar .
To prepare fried chiacchiere, take part of the dough and roll it out as before to a thickness of 1/16 inch . Let the sheet dry slightly and then use the fluted pastry wheel to cut rectangles measuring 2x4 inches , making cuts in the center lengthwise .
Fry a few chiacchiere at a time in plenty of hot vegetable oil . The ideal temperature is between 300-320°F; we recommend using a thermometer to measure it for perfect frying. When they are nicely golden, drain them with a slotted spoon and transfer them to paper towels . Let cool and serve dusted with powdered sugar .
Finally, we will show you how to prepare filled and fried chiacchiere. You will need to roll the dough several times through the machine, gradually reducing the thickness until you obtain a sheet 1/16 inch thick . From this, simply cut 4x4 inch squares and fill them by placing a teaspoon of jam in the center .
Moisten the edges of the dough and fold the filled chiacchiere into triangles. Press the edges well, squeezing out all the air . Prepare all the others in the same way.
Fry a few pieces at a time, immersing them in hot oil preheated to 340°F . When they are nicely golden, after about a couple of minutes, drain them on a paper towel to remove excess oil. Let them cool slightly and serve .
Chiacchiere, in all three versions, keep for 2-3 days at room temperature.
The alcohol evaporates during cooking, leaving only the aroma. However, if you prefer, you can replace it with an equal weight of fruit juice. If you don't have a pasta machine, you can also use a rolling pin, as long as the dough is super thin. For filled chiacchiere, we chose to use jam that withstands the high temperature of the oil. Using Nutella could dry it out a bit. We do not recommend baking them in the oven because the filling tends to leak out during cooking.

