name:
Cicerchiata
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Anise liqueur: 2tsp(10 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Wildflower honey: 1 ½cup(500 g)
Peeled almonds: ½cup(70 g)
Colored sprinkles: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 12
Cost: Average
Note + the dough resting time (15 min.) and the cooling time in the mold (about 1 h)

instructions:
The cicerchiata is to Carnival what struffoli are to Christmas! These two traditional desserts, which look very similar, differ not only in the holiday but also in the region of origin: struffoli are exclusively from Campania, while cicerchiata is typical of various regions in Central Italy, such as Marche, Umbria, Abruzzo, and Molise, and takes its name from the Grass pea soup , ancient legumes which it resembles. In both cases, the dough is flavored with citrus zest and anise liqueur, then the dough balls are fried and covered with honey. For decoration, you can choose between colorful sprinkles or candied fruit, but the important thing is not to miss out on the almonds, one of the elements that characterize the cicerchiata, along with its scenic ring shape!
In addition to the typical fried and baked Carnival desserts, don't miss out on these traditional regional recipes:

To prepare the cicerchiata, pour the eggs into a bowl along with the liqueur , the oil , and the grated lemon zest .
Beat everything with a fork, then add the flour . Mix the ingredients in the bowl first with the fork and then with your hands .
Transfer the mixture to the work surface and continue to knead with your hands until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough, similar to fresh pasta. Form a ball and wrap it in plastic wrap, then let it rest at room temperature for about 15 minutes . After this time, divide the dough into small portions .
Shape the portions into logs about 0.4 inches thick , then cut them into pieces about 0.4 inches long . Roll the dough pieces with your fingers to make small balls .
At this point, heat the seed oil to a temperature of 392°F and fry a few balls at a time . When they are evenly golden, drain and let cool on paper towels .
Meanwhile, slice the almonds into slivers . Pour the honey into a large pot and heat it gently for a few minutes .
When the honey has gained some color, turn off the heat and add the fried balls . Stir well to coat them evenly, then add the almonds and the sprinkles , making sure to save some for decoration.
Stir everything again . Pour the mixture into a 9-inch diameter bundt pan, greased with olive oil , level the base, and let it cool at room temperature .
Once the mixture has cooled, flip the mold onto a serving plate ; if it doesn't come out easily, you can slightly warm the surface of the mold with a flame. Garnish with the reserved almonds and sprinkles and serve your beautiful cicerchiata !
The cicerchiata can be stored at room temperature for 4-5 days, covered with a glass dome.
You can substitute the lemon zest with orange zest, or use both.
Customize the decoration according to your tastes: you can use only almonds, for example, or also add candied fruit!

