name:
Chocolate Migliaccio
ingredients:
Semolina: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(35 g)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Water: 2.1cups(500 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Eggs: 7.75oz(220 g)- (about 4 medium)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Orange peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
Chocolate migliaccio is a delicious variation of the traditional migliaccio from Campania, a Carnival dessert made with semolina, highly aromatic and with a soft texture. The version we present here is even more indulgent, thanks to the addition of dark chocolate to the basic dough that will give an intense and captivating flavor. If like us, you love experimenting with variations of traditional recipes, try the Savory Migliaccio , a delightful reinterpretation to enjoy as an appetizer!
And if you love desserts with semolina, don't miss our Chocolate Semolina Cake , super delicious.
Discover other Carnival recipes:
To prepare the chocolate migliaccio, heat milk, water , salt , and butter in a saucepan.
Flavor with orange zest . Bring to a boil over medium-high heat. Once boiling, remove the peel from the liquids and gradually add the semolina . Stir with a whisk to avoid lumps and cook over medium heat for 3-4 minutes.
Transfer the mixture into a bowl , cover with plastic wrap, and let it cool slightly. Meanwhile, sift the ricotta and add the cocoa .
Mix and set aside . In a very large bowl, beat the eggs with the sugar using electric beaters for a few minutes until they become a bit fluffy. Then add the ricotta and cocoa mixture .
Next, incorporate the cooled semolina and keep mixing with the beaters . Finally, add the chopped chocolate .
Mix and transfer into a 9.5-inch greased and parchment-lined cake pan . Level the surface with a spatula and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 80 minutes. Allow to cool completely before placing it in the fridge for another couple of hours and then serve.
The chocolate migliaccio can be stored in the fridge for 3-4 days. We do not recommend freezing it.
The chopped chocolate will give each slice a pleasant chocolatey center; alternatively, it can be melted in a double boiler and added to the mixture along with the cooked semolina. A pinch of cinnamon can provide the perfect spicy note. If the semolina mixture results excessively dry, a bit more milk can be added to soften it (consistency similar to mashed potatoes).

