name:
Italian ricotta fritters
ingredients:
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ⅓cup(320 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(215 g)
Whole cane sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Baking powder: 2.4tsp(10 g)
Lemon peel: 1- to grate
Peanut seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
If we mention Carnival fritters, what comes to mind? Among the many Carnival sweets, some might immediately think of the classics like castagnole and tortelli or perhaps the Baked Fritters ... but we tempt you with ricotta fritters! These round, soft, and fried treats are perfect for indulging in one bite: they are fluffy inside and completely covered in sugar on the outside like every worthy Luna-Park Fritters . Perfect for Carnival, ricotta fritters are actually good to eat all year round when you want to indulge in a well-deserved sweet treat!
After tasting them, don't miss these other sweet and savory variants:

To make the ricotta fritters, pour the ricotta and brown sugar into a bowl , then work with a spatula. Add the grated lemon zest .
Add the flour and the baking powder and mix again, then knead with your hands to obtain a compact and homogeneous mixture .
Take small portions of dough about 0.7 oz each and round them between the palms of your hands to form balls ; with these quantities, you will get about 30-32 pieces. Place the balls on a tray lined with parchment paper and meanwhile heat the vegetable oil to a temperature of 320°F. Fry a few pieces at a time to prevent the oil temperature from dropping . Drain the fritters when they are beautifully golden, it will take about 4-5 minutes .
Transfer the fritters to paper towels , then roll them while still warm in granulated sugar . Your ricotta fritters are ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the ricotta fritters as soon as they are made. Alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator for one day.
If you prefer to prepare the balls a few hours in advance, you can store them in the refrigerator and fry them before serving.
You can flavor the ricotta fritter dough with a pinch of cinnamon or shredded coconut.
Use dry-textured ricotta: if it's too watery, let it drain in a colander before adding it.

