name:
Florentine stuffed schiacciata
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 2.875cups(360 g)
Eggs: 6.5oz(185 g)- (about 3 large)
Whole milk: ½cup(100 g)
Sugar: 1 ⅛cup(225 g)
Water: 1tbsp(20 g)
Sunflower seed oil: ¼cup(60 g)
Orange peel: 1
Baking powder: 3 ¾tsp(16 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Powdered sugar: to taste
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Powdered sugar: ½cup(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average

instructions:
The Florentine stuffed schiacciata is a delicious variation of the same named Florentine Schiacciata enjoyed during the Carnival period. In this even richer and tastier version, you'll find a soft and aromatic cake filled with Chantilly cream , adding a velvety touch of freshness. Alongside the essential Carnival fried treats, try this delicious dessert that makes simplicity a virtue, perfectly highlighting the most common pastry ingredients, as every traditional recipe should!
Here are more Tuscan ideas for your Carnival menu:

To prepare the Florentine stuffed schiacciata, beat the cold eggs from the fridge in a bowl , add the sugar, and whisk with an electric mixer until the mixture is light and fluffy. Gradually pour in the cold milk while mixing.
Then, slowly pour in the water and oil , and finally, flavor with orange zest and vanilla seeds .
Incorporate the flour and baking powder by sifting them through a sieve , mix with a spatula to combine . Butter and flour a 12x9x1 inch aluminum baking pan, pour the batter here .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 25-30 minutes . We recommend placing a small pot of water in the oven to create humidity. Once cooked, remove from the oven and let cool . Meanwhile, pour the cream and powdered sugar into a bowl and whip with a whisk .
The cream should be firm and fluffy . Cut the cake in half and fill the bottom half with whipped cream .

Spread the cream with a spatula to distribute it evenly . Cover with the other half of the cake and dust the surface with powdered sugar .
Place the stencil depicting the Florentine lily , sprinkle cocoa on top . The Florentine stuffed flatbread is ready to be enjoyed .
The Florentine stuffed schiacciata can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days. You can freeze it without the filling.
You can enrich the batter with saffron powder, which will also give it a nice golden color. We recommend incorporating the flour in two batches to avoid lumps.

