name:
Chocolate Castagnole
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ⅓cup(170 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 6tbsp(30 g)
Eggs: 3.7oz(106 g)- (about 2 medium)
Sambuca: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Vanilla bean: 1
Baking powder: 2tsp(8 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)- soft
Chocolate drops: ½cup(90 g)
Peanut seed oil: 3 ¼cups(700 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Jokes, confetti, but above all Carnival fritters! These are a must-have for Carnival: the classic castagnole and the Filled castagnole are unbeatable, but let's also try the chocolate castagnole! The "dark" version, a super tasty idea to enrich the selection of sweets alongside fried and baked chiacchiere! Sweet lovers from every corner, step forward! This tasty recipe is designed for you: an aromatic dough with chocolate chips and a dusting of cocoa, flavored with sambuca, for such soft bites that you can't stop at one! And after frying, the classic sugar coating will make them even more inviting!
To not miss anything, try other fried and baked Carnival sweets to prepare at home like the soft and fragrant ricotta castagnole or the Savory Castagnole !
To prepare the chocolate castagnole, pour the flour and cocoa , the baking powder , and the sugar into a large bowl.
Flavor with sambuca and the seeds from the vanilla pod . Then add the eggs
a pinch of salt and the softened butter , knead everything by hand until you get a compact and homogeneous mixture .
Finally, incorporate the chocolate chips . Knead everything, transfer the mixture to a work surface , and form a loaf .
Roll it and cut pieces weighing 12-13 g each . Shape them into round balls with your hands .
As you form the balls, place them on a tray . With these quantities, you will get about 40 castagnole. Now fry in hot oil at 340-350°F (to be measured with a kitchen thermometer) for 2-3 minutes. Remember to fry a few pieces at a time, so as not to lower the oil temperature . Drain with a slotted spoon .
Place them one by one on a tray lined with kitchen paper . Once frying is finished, roll the balls in granulated sugar . Your chocolate castagnole are ready !
It is advisable to consume the chocolate castagnole immediately, or at most within the day. The dough can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of sambuca, you can use limoncello, grappa, or orange juice.
• Can they be filled after cooking?
Chocolate castagnole have a rather compact internal consistency that does not lend itself to stuffing, and they will already be delicious as they are!
• What can I replace sambuca with?
You can use another aromatic liqueur like rum, limoncello, or orange juice.
• Can chocolate be used instead of cocoa powder?
This substitution is not recommended because it is a product with a different consistency.
• What can I substitute vanilla pod seeds with?
Vanilla extract can be used as an alternative.
• What are the secrets for perfect frying?
We recommend cooking the castagnole at the indicated temperature, monitored with a food thermometer, and it is important to cook a few pieces at a time to avoid lowering the oil temperature.

