name:
Camilla Cake
ingredients:
Carrots: 1.1lbs(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Almond flour: 1cup(120 g)
Almond milk: 0.6cup(150 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2 medium) at room temperature
Sunflower seed oil: 0.4cup(100 g)
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Orange peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Sunflower seed oil: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
The Camilla cake is inspired by the classic Carrot Cakes loved by both adults and children! Instead of the typical single-serving format, ideal for school backpacks, we've created an extra-large version, perfect for breakfast! This soft carrot cake flavored with orange is made with vegetable oil and almond milk to create a dessert without butter and lactose, nutritious and rich in fiber... however, if you prefer, you can safely use cow's milk or substitute part of it with orange juice to enhance its citrus aroma. The Camilla cake is a simple and genuine recipe, characterized by a delicate taste and a bright color that will light up your day from the beginning!
Discover these carrot cake variations as well:


To make the Camilla cake, first wash, peel, and trim the carrots, then cut them into chunks . Transfer the carrots to a food processor and finely chop them .
Pour the eggs and sugar into a bowl and mix with electric beaters for about 2-3 minutes, then add the vegetable oil in a slow stream while continuing to beat . Add the grated orange zest .
Incorporate the chopped carrots into the mixture while still mixing with the beaters , then add the salt and all-purpose flour .
Add the baking powder and incorporate the dry ingredients with the beaters. At this point, add the almond flour alternating with the almond milk , keeping the beaters running.
You should obtain a homogeneous mixture . Pour the batter into a 9-inch diameter bundt pan, greased and floured . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 70 minutes. Check the doneness with a toothpick, then remove from the oven and let cool in the pan .
Turn the cake out onto a serving plate and let it cool completely. Dust with powdered sugar as desired and enjoy your Camilla cake !
The Camilla cake can be stored at room temperature for 3 days, covered with a cake dome.
You can freeze it after baking, possibly cut into slices.
Alternatively, you can use a 10-inch diameter cake pan: in this case, the baking time is reduced to 60-65 minutes.
To grate the carrots more finely, you can add the vegetable oil to the food processor instead of the batter. If you don’t have a food processor, you can use a fine-grated grater. If you use organic carrots, there’s no need to peel them, just wash them well.
You can substitute almond milk with the same amount of cow's milk. For a more citrusy flavor, you can use 1/3 cup of almond milk and 1/3 cup of orange juice!


