name:
Beneventan Lasagna
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Fior di latte mozzarella cheese: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Neapolitan salami: 7.1oz(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Eggs: 4
Black pepper: to taste
Tomato purée: 4 ¼cups(1.4 l)
Yellow onions: 1- small
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Ground beef: 10.6oz(300 g)
Stale bread: 3 ½cups(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to grate)
Eggs: 1
Parsley: 1tuft

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 1 h 45 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
Italian regional cuisine offers us rich and sumptuous dishes, especially during the holidays! In Campania, we can find Beneventan lasagna, typical of the province of the same name. Just as you can't go without Cardone beneventano at Christmas, this appetizing main course of lasagna is usually served during Carnival: it's a Lasagne without Béchamel typically topped with meat sauce, meatballs, mozzarella, and boiled eggs. Here we've replaced the meat sauce with a classic tomato sauce to offer you a slightly simplified version that you can prepare all year round! Don't worry though, the taste remains the same... actually, we're sure you'll love the abundant and flavorful filling tucked between the layers of these traditional baked lasagna ! Try the Beneventan lasagna yourself: not just Carnival lasagna , but a delicious and succulent recipe for special occasions.
To prepare Beneventan lasagna, first make the sauce: clean and chop the onion , then transfer it to a pot with a drizzle of oil and let it stew for a few minutes .
Pour in the tomato passata , rinse the pitcher with a splash of water and add salt , then cover with a lid and cook over low heat for about an hour.
In the meantime, cut the mozzarella into 3/8-inch strips and let them drain on a tray lined with paper towels for about an hour . Prepare the meatballs: soak the slices of stale bread in water .
After a few minutes, squeeze out the bread and discard the crust, then transfer it to a bowl with the ground meat and add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP .
Add the egg and chopped parsley , salt, and pepper. Mix everything with your hands to get a homogeneous mixture .
Take small portions of the mixture and form meatballs the size of a marble ; with these amounts, you should get about 150. Heat the oil in a large pan, place the meatballs in , and brown them on the outside for a few minutes, then set them aside ; they will finish cooking in the oven.
Now put the eggs in a pot with plenty of cold water, turn on the heat, and cook for 8-9 minutes from boiling . Meanwhile, cut the salami into cubes . When the boiled eggs are ready, cool them under running water, then peel and crumble them with a fork .
You're ready to assemble the lasagna: take a 20x30 cm (8x12 inch) baking dish and spread some sauce on the bottom , then place 3 sheets of pasta, slightly overlapping them . Cover with more sauce and distribute some meatballs .
Add some salami cubes , mozzarella strips , and crumbled eggs .
Sprinkle with grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP and a grind of pepper . Cover with more sauce and repeat the layers in this way until you have 6 in total .
Finish with a layer of pasta, all the remaining sauce, grated cheese , mozzarella , and pepper. Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 25-30 minutes, on the middle rack. Remove from the oven and serve your Beneventan lasagna after letting it rest for a few minutes !
The Beneventan lasagna can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze it either before or after cooking.
For an even richer lasagna, try the traditional variant with meat sauce!

