name:
Grandma's Meatballs in Sauce
ingredients:
Ground beef: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Stale bread: 2.8oz(80 g)
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Anchovies in oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Whole milk: 1.3cups(300 g)
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste
White onions: 1
Tomato purée: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 26 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Did someone say meatballs ? Just mentioning them makes your mouth water, even more so if they are grandma's meatballs in sauce, a main course of home cooking that has always won over every new generation, never going out of style. Here you will find one of the best and most genuine beef meatballs, first fried and then dipped in a delicious and enveloping tomato sauce , making them doubly appetizing! Let yourself be tempted by these inviting meatballs in sauce and also discover other tasty meatball recipes:
To prepare grandma's meatballs in sauce, clean and chop half an onion . In a pan, pour a dash of oil and the chopped onion . Sauté the onion for about 5 minutes or until soft, then add the tomato purée and salt.
Add the basil leaves , cover with a lid , and cook for 10-15 minutes. While the sauce is cooking, prepare the meatballs: in a bowl, soak the stale bread in the milk.
In a bowl, add the ground beef, cheese , eggs , salt, chopped parsley, and anchovies .
Knead to combine . Meanwhile, the bread will have softened, squeeze it and add it to the rest of the mixture .
Take a portion of the mixture and shape it into meatballs , roll them in breadcrumbs , and place them on a tray .
Heat the vegetable oil for frying, once it reaches 340°F , dip a few meatballs at a time and fry until golden brown . Drain the fried meatballs on a tray lined with paper towels .
Salt while they are still hot. Meanwhile, the sauce will be ready, immerse the fried meatballs in it , arranging them side by side .
Cover with a lid and cook for 10 minutes, turning them every 2-3 minutes . Grandma's meatballs in sauce are ready , serve them with toasted bread.
You can store grandma's meatballs in sauce in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for 2-3 days. You can also freeze them either cooked or raw: in this case, however, it is very important that the ingredients are very fresh and not previously frozen.
Before adding the basil leaves, clap them between your hands to release their aroma. Have some leftover meatballs in sauce? Use them to dress a plate of spaghetti!

