name:
Carnival Zeppole
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2cups(300 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- soft
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 g)- warm
Eggs: 1
Egg yolks: 1
Brewer's yeast: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Limoncello: 1spoonful
Fine salt: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Peanut seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the rising time (about 2 hours)

instructions:
When we say zeppole, what comes to mind? The answer isn't straightforward: there are St. Joseph's zeppole , Christmas zeppole , Sardinian Zeppole ... and Carnival zeppole! Fried and covered in sugar as any respectable Carnival treat should be, they are made with a dough enriched with boiled potatoes, reminiscent of graffe . However, unlike graffe, they are smaller and characterized by their typical bow shape, similar to a tarallo. We've chosen to flavor them with limoncello as per tradition, giving the potato zeppole a delightful citrus aroma... so what are you waiting for to fry your Carnival zeppole and toss them into a sea of granulated sugar?
Don't miss out on these classic Carnival sweets:
To prepare the Carnival zeppole, first boil the potatoes with their skin in cold water for about 30-40 minutes, depending on their size . When they're soft enough to pierce with a fork, drain and mash them while still hot in a bowl ; the skin will remain inside the potato ricer .
Let them cool slightly, then add the flour , the egg , and the yolk .
Add the softened cubed butter , a pinch of salt , and the sugar .
Dissolve the yeast in the milk you've slightly warmed , then pour it into the bowl . Finally, add the limoncello .
Start mixing in the bowl , then transfer the mixture to the work surface and continue kneading until you achieve a smooth and homogeneous consistency . Form a ball, place it in the bowl, and cover with a cloth . Let it rise away from drafts for a couple of hours, or until it doubles in volume.
After the rising time, take the dough and quickly work it on a lightly floured surface , then shape it into a long form and divide it into about 30 pieces . Work each piece to form strips about 6 inches long and 0.4 inches thick .
Take one strip at a time and close it into a ring, twisting the ends . For safety, you can twist the ends twice to hold the shape . Once all the zeppole are formed, heat the seed oil to a temperature of 300°F-320°F and submerge 1 or 2 pieces at a time .
Fry, turning the zeppole on all sides until fully golden, then drain and immediately toss them into granulated sugar to coat completely . Continue in this way and serve your Carnival zeppole immediately !
It's best to enjoy the Carnival zeppole immediately, or at least within the day.
If you prefer, you can replace the limoncello with grated lemon zest.

