name:
Roman-style Chicken with Peppers
ingredients:
Chicken: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- whole, free-range
Bell peppers: 3- red and yellow
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
White wine: ½glass- dry
Tomatoes: 5- for sauce, ripe
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves

info:
Difficulty: Average
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Roman-style chicken with peppers is a rustic second course; a typical recipe from Lazio cuisine, perfect to prepare for the whole family. Making it is simple and today we show you how to do it using a whole chicken, cutting the pieces one by one. But if you are not very handy, do not worry, let your trusted butcher handle this operation. By following our steps, you will get moist chicken that pairs excellently with the sweetness of peppers and a delicious gravy from the tomatoes. Follow our advice to prepare a classic and timeless dish!
Here are other chicken recipes not to be missed:
To prepare Roman-style chicken with peppers, first wash the peppers. Cut them in half and remove the seeds and inner filaments. Slice the peppers and then cut them into pieces .
Collect the yellow and red peppers in a bowl . Dice the tomatoes . Now, take care of the chicken; you will need to cut it into pieces. If you are not very skilled, we recommend buying it already cut. Using a sharp knife, first separate the thighs .
From these, cut drumsticks and thighs . Now also separate the wings and the breast .
Halve the breasts if they are too large . Once you have cut the chicken into pieces, salt it well and proceed with cooking. In a large pan, pour the oil and 2 cloves of garlic .
Then add the chicken pieces and, when they are well browned, turn them and remove the garlic. Let them brown on the other side and deglaze with white wine . Once completely evaporated, add the tomatoes .
Also add the peppers , salt, pepper and cover with a lid .
Let it cook for 40 minutes, then remove the lid . Increase the heat to reduce the gravy if needed and serve .
Roman-style chicken with peppers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1-2 days.
You can also use onion instead of garlic.
You can enrich the chicken with capers or chili pepper.

