name:
Luciana-style Baby Octopus
ingredients:
Baby octopus: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (about 60 g each)
Tomato purée: 1.7cups(400 g)
Gaeta olives: 2.8oz(80 g)
Salted capers: 2tsp(10 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Dried chili pepper: 1
Parsley: 1tuft
Dry white wine: ½glass
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The polpo alla luciana is a traditional recipe from the Campania region characterized by a simple and flavorful sauce. Using the same sauce, we created a delicious variation: Luciana-style baby octopus! After being slow-cooked in tomato sauce, the Stewed baby octopus become tender and succulent, perfect to accompany with toasted bread croutons. Although they look very similar to the famous Octopus in Tomato Sauce , these baby octopus differ due to having only one row of suckers and are enriched with capers and olives, resulting in an intensely Mediterranean flavor. A second course or seafood appetizer that will make you lick your lips... and fingers!
After trying Luciana-style baby octopus, also try these recipes:
To prepare Luciana-style baby octopus, first clean the octopus: remove the beak and eyes , then remove the innards from the sac and rinse them thoroughly one by one under running water .
Cut the chili pepper in half lengthwise, remove the seeds , and chop it finely . Sauté the garlic clove and chili pepper with a drizzle of oil in a large pan .
Add the baby octopus and sauté over low heat for 2-3 minutes until the tentacles curl up . At this point, increase the heat and deglaze with white wine .
When the alcohol has evaporated, lower the heat again and pour in the tomato puree . Mix well, then add the pitted olives and rinsed capers .
Lightly salt , stir , and cover with a lid . Cook over low heat for 50-60 minutes, stirring occasionally. If it dries out too much towards the end of cooking, you can add a little hot water, but keep in mind that the sauce should be quite thick.
After the cooking time, turn off the heat and garnish with pepper and chopped parsley . Give it one last stir and your Luciana-style baby octopus is ready to be served hot !
The Luciana-style baby octopus can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
The cooking time may vary depending on the size of the baby octopus.
Add salt sparingly because the baby octopus, olives, and capers are already quite salty.
The Luciana-style baby octopus can also make an excellent pasta sauce... take inspiration from our Luciana-style spaghetti recipe!

