name:
Spaghetti with Octopus Sauce
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 0.9lb(400 g)
Octopus: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (already cleaned)
Tomato purée: 2.1cups(500 g)
Tomato paste: 4tsp(20 g)
Yellow onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Carrots: 2.8oz(80 g)
Celery: 1.4oz(40 g)
Bread: 1.1oz(30 g)- crumbs
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Parsley: 1tuft
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Spaghetti are the perfect pasta shape for seafood dishes because they envelop all the flavors and aromas of the sauce in one bite. After the classic spaghetti with clams and seafood spaghetti , today we are cooking spaghetti with octopus sauce! A simple but very tasty recipe, enlivened by the spicy notes of chili pepper and the crunchy touch of toasted breadcrumbs. Thanks to the slow cooking in tomato sauce, the octopus will be tender and flavorful, making it hard to resist scooping up every last bit... So don't be surprised if your guests forget formalities to fully enjoy your spaghetti with octopus sauce!
Try these variations as well:

To prepare spaghetti with octopus sauce, first cut the octopus into pieces about 3/4 inch , then chop the chili pepper . Clean and chop the onion, carrot, and celery as well .
Heat a swirl of oil in a large pan , add the chopped vegetables , and sauté for 4-5 minutes over medium-low heat, then add the octopus and let it brown.
When the water released by the octopus has evaporated, pour in the tomato passata and paste , mix well, and cover with a lid . Cook for over an hour on low heat, adding a little hot water as needed.
Meanwhile, toast the crumbled breadcrumbs in a pan with a little oil . Towards the end of the sauce cooking time, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the spaghetti .
Drain the pasta when it is very al dente and finish cooking it in the pan with the sauce . Finally, flavor with chopped parsley and mix everything well. Serve the spaghetti with octopus sauce by adding the crunchy breadcrumbs directly on the plate !
It is recommended to consume the spaghetti with octopus sauce immediately.
If you prefer to replace the passata with fresh tomatoes, you can follow the recipe for pasta with octopus and tomato!

