name:
Spaghetti with anchovy sauce and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Taggiasca olives: 1oz(30 g)
Salted capers: 1tbsp(15 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: ½
Yellow cherry tomatoes: 14.1oz(400 g)
Basil: to taste
Colatura di alici (fishsauce): 4spoonfuls
Lemon peel: ½
Fine salt: to taste
Sugar: 1pinch
Ground pistachio: 1.8oz(50 g)
Breadcrumbs: 2tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
If like us you are lovers of main dishes with intense and strong flavors, don’t miss our spaghetti with anchovy sauce and cherry tomatoes. This is a quick sauce enriched by a special ingredient that will give the dish an extra kick: the anchovy sauce, a sauce derived from anchovies in brine. This condiment, with its concentrated and pungent taste, will give the dish a salty touch and a sea aroma that will tickle your palates. A sweet sauce, made with yellow cherry tomatoes, will cleverly balance the flavors. To complete the dish, a crunchy cascade of pan-fried pistachios, which will add a refined, elegant, and naturally tasty touch!
Come take a look at our specialties of quick, easy and tasty fish dishes:
To make spaghetti with anchovy sauce and cherry tomatoes, start with the pistachio crumble: in a bowl, pour the chopped pistachios and breadcrumbs and mix . Heat the oil in a small pan over medium heat .
Add the breadcrumbs and pistachios , lightly salt and cook for a few minutes, stirring often to achieve an even toast. When they are crunchy, toasted, and fragrant, remove from heat and let cool.
Wash the cherry tomatoes, then cut them in half lengthwise ; set aside. For the sauce: split the chili pepper in half , heat the oil in a large pan along with a crushed clove of garlic and half the chili pepper .
Add the olives and capers . When everything starts to sizzle, cook for about a minute, then remove the garlic and the chili pepper .
Add the yellow cherry tomatoes and sauté over high heat for 5 minutes. Add a pinch of sugar to balance the acidity of the tomato if necessary, then season with some torn basil leaves . Cook for about fifteen minutes over low heat, covering with a lid .
Bring a pot of lightly salted water to a boil (remember that the anchovy sauce and capers are already very salty): cook the pasta for 4 minutes less than indicated on the package . Drain the pasta and finish cooking it directly in the pan , using as much pasta cooking water as needed .
Once cooked, off the heat, add the lemon zest and the anchovy sauce. Mix while gradually adding a couple of tablespoons of oil to emulsify the sauce well.
Serve immediately topping everything with the pistachio crumble . The spaghetti with anchovy sauce and cherry tomatoes are ready to be enjoyed .
We recommend eating the pasta as soon as it is ready.
The anchovy sauce is very salty, so we recommend salting the preparation sparingly.

