name:
Pappardelle with White Ragù of Cinta Senese
ingredients:
Egg Pappardelle Ricce pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Cinta  Senese: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- shoulder
Meat broth: 1cup(250 g)
Celery: 1.75oz(50 g)
Carrots: 0.4cup(50 g)
Yellow onions: 1.75oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Juniper: 2berries
White wine: 1.8oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Today we take a trip to Tuscany, more precisely to Siena, and for lunch, we refresh ourselves with a nice plate of pasta: pappardelle with white ragù of Cinta Senese! The heritage of recipes and ingredients offered by Italian regional cuisine is vast, as we know, and in this case, it is worth lingering on the Cinta Senese pig, an ancient breed particularly widespread on the hills of Siena where it is raised free-range: it is precisely this type of breeding that gives this meat its uniqueness, with a more intense flavor and color compared to common pork, which requires slow and prolonged cooking. This is why the Cinta Senese ragù best enhances this exquisite ingredient, especially if paired with egg pasta, or even better, with curly pappardelle, perfect for embracing the sauce and wrapping it in a spiral of goodness! Pappardelle with white ragù of Cinta Senese is a first course not to be missed if you happen to be in those parts… but if you don't have any trips planned, we offer you our version: you just need to get the key ingredient and follow this simple recipe to bring to the table the unique taste of our Tuscany! Are you particularly hungry? No problem: serve a succulent chicken cacciatore as a second course accompanied by a good Chianti and your menu will be complete!
To prepare the pappardelle with white ragù of Cinta Senese, first of all, prepare the meat broth following our recipe. Then move on to preparing the meat: remove the rind from the pork shoulder , then chop it roughly into pieces , and pass it through a meat grinder to grind it finely . If you don't have a meat grinder, you can buy ready-ground pork.
Finely chop the carrot, onion, and celery as well , and finally the juniper berries . Now heat the extra virgin olive oil in a large pan, add the chopped carrot, celery, and onion , and sauté over low heat for 5-6 minutes.
Then add the ground pork and let it brown for 7-8 minutes, stirring often. Season with salt and pepper , then deglaze with the white wine and let it evaporate completely.
Finally, add the chopped juniper berries , the bay leaf , and mix well. At this point, add the meat broth
and let it cook slowly for about an hour until the broth has almost completely dried up . At that point, you can remove the bay leaf from the pan .
When the ragù is almost ready, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the pasta . Cook the curly pappardelle al dente, then drain and add them directly to the pan with the ragù . Quickly toss the pasta with the sauce to mix everything well and serve your pappardelle with white ragù of Cinta Senese piping hot!
It is recommended to serve the pappardelle with white ragù of Cinta Senese as soon as they are ready. If necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator for up to one day, in an airtight container.
This traditional dish is also very popular in the red variant, equally good: to try it, simply add fresh tomatoes or a good tomato purée to the meat and cook slowly as described in the recipe. If you like to be generous with aromatic herbs, you can further perfume your Cinta Senese ragù with chopped rosemary or other spices to your liking.

