name:
Gluten-Free Tart
ingredients:
Rice flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Fioretto corn flour: 1 ⅓cup(165 g)
Butter: 4.6oz(130 g)- cold
Brown sugar: ½cup(120 g)
Egg yolks: 2.1oz(60 g)- (approximately 4)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (1 whole)
Lemon peel: ½
Fine salt: 1pinch
Strawberry jam: 0.6cup(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + 2 hours of chilling in the fridge

instructions:
What is the most rustic and simple homemade dessert that has always delighted the snacks of both adults and children? The tart, of course! A crumbly base to fill with creams or fruit preserves , a dessert for all seasons and versatile to enjoy at breakfast with a cup of tea or a latte, at snack time with orange juice, or to serve as a dessert to deliciously conclude a meal! We have variations for every taste, such as the Whole Wheat Tart one or Butter-free tart , and today we want to propose our gluten-free tart version, a small indulgence for all those following a gluten-free diet to enjoy without reservations. It only took replacing the wheat flour in the preparation of the Gluten-free shortcrust pastry with a clever mix of rice flour, also used for making our Rice flour cookies , and cornmeal to achieve a perfect dessert both in terms of flavor and texture that will satisfy all palates! And to experiment with other gluten-free recipes for afternoon snacks, try the Gluten-free focaccia !
To make the gluten-free tart, start by placing the cold butter cut into pieces, the rice flour , the cornmeal , and the brown sugar into the bowl of a food processor equipped with blades.
Flavor the dough with lemon zest , then add the egg yolks and the whole egg .
Finally, add a pinch of salt , then start the food processor to obtain a homogeneous and soft mixture . Transfer it onto a slightly floured work surface and knead with your hands to compact it and form a dough ball . Wrap the dough ball with plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator to firm up for at least 2 hours.
After the firming time has passed, take the shortcrust pastry and roll it out with a rolling pin on a slightly floured work surface , it should have a thickness of about 1/4 inch. Trim the edge with a knife and then place the obtained sheet on a 9-inch diameter tart pan .
Make sure the shortcrust adheres well to the bottom and the sides, then cut away the excess edge (13-14). Fill the base with strawberry jam
and level the surface with the back of a spoon . Roll out the remaining shortcrust to the same thickness and cut strips about 1/2 inch wide .
Place the strips of shortcrust pastry on the tart first in one direction and then the other, crossing them to create a lattice pattern. Trim away the excess pastry strips with a small knife . Bake the gluten-free tart in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 30 minutes in the middle rack. Once baked, remove the dessert from the oven and let it cool slightly before removing it from the mold .
You can store the raw gluten-free shortcrust pastry in the refrigerator for a couple of days or you can freeze it.
As an alternative to lemon zest, you can use seeds from a vanilla bean or its extract to flavor the dough.
For gluten-free recipes, we recommend purchasing only products that bear the crossed-out ear symbol on the package, certified gluten-free, recommended by the AIC (Italian Celiac Association) guide.

