name:
Pasta alla Norcina
ingredients:
Penne Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Sausage: 0.7lb(300 g)
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(200 g)
Yellow onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)- to be grated
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
With pasta alla norcina, we rediscover a delightful dish from the Umbrian cuisine, rich and irresistibly creamy. This first course is made special by two typical ingredients from Norcia: sheep's ricotta and spiced sausage. Rustic, strong, and genuine flavors that defy culinary trends and still bring taste and pleasure to our tables today. In the area, you will find different versions of this pasta: a more refined one with the addition of black truffle, another local delicacy, and a more homemade and modern one with fresh cream, which gives it a silkier touch. As often happens with traditional recipes, just a few simple ingredients are enough here to create a timeless and appetizing dish!
Come and discover other delicious recipes with sausage:
To prepare pasta alla norcina, clean and finely chop the onion . Slightly cut the sausage, remove the casing, and break it up roughly with your hands .
Pour a drizzle of oil into a pan , add the chopped onion , the garlic clove, and sauté over medium heat for about 5 minutes. Add the roughly broken sausage to the onion and cook over moderate heat for another 5 minutes until well browned. Meanwhile, place a pot full of water on the stove and salt when boiling; this will be used to cook the pasta.
Remove the garlic and turn off the heat . Cook the pasta until al dente . Add the sheep's ricotta to the pan .

Add a ladle of pasta cooking water and mix . Drain the pasta al dente directly into the pan with the sauce and sauté over high heat for 2 minutes.
Finish the preparation with the addition of Parmesan cheese , mix well , and serve the pasta alla norcina hot !
It is recommended to consume the pasta alla norcina immediately.
In some variations of the recipe, truffle is also included, to be grated in flakes on the dish before serving, giving it a refined and flavorful touch!

