name:
Filled Chiacchiere
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(240 g)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (1 medium, at room temperature)
Egg yolks: 1- (at room temperature)
Sugar: 5tsp(20 g)
Grappa: 1.4oz(40 g)
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)- soft
Fine salt: 1pinch
Strawberry jam: 0.7cup(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Carnival colors our table with cheerful salty goodies and sweets, especially chiacchiere ! Try them fried, baked, and even filled, like these chiacchiere filled with delicious strawberry jam. These delightful fried triangles are a rich and tasty variant of traditional sweets, but since sweetness knows no borders, you can find similar treats all over the peninsula under different names and with some variations in the recipe: the filled bugie , the sweet Sweet Carnival Ravioli , the Sicilian cassatelle enriched with ricotta and chocolate. It's hard to choose among all these fried and baked Carnival sweets!
To prepare the filled chiacchiere, pour the flour , sugar , whole egg, and yolk at room temperature into the bowl of the mixer equipped with a hook.
Also add the grappa and work the ingredients for a couple of minutes to obtain a lumpy mixture. Add the softened butter and salt to the dough.
Work with the hook until you obtain a smooth dough . Transfer the dough to the work surface and cover with a bowl or plastic wrap.
Divide the dough into two parts and keep one protected from the air under the bowl . Roll out the portion of dough (with an electric pasta machine or with a rolling pin) starting from the largest thickness and passing it twice at the same thickness .
Fold the dough strip in three: fold one edge of the sheet towards the center , then fold the opposite edge in the same way . Roll out the dough to increasingly thinner layers until you get a sheet about 1/32 inch (1 mm) thick .
Cut squares of 4x4 inches (10x10 cm) . Fill each square with 0.35 oz (10g) of jam (about 1 teaspoon) . Lightly brush the edges of the sheet with a little water .
Fold diagonally in half, matching the two opposite corners and seal the edges with slight pressure with your fingers , thus forming a triangle. (Repeat the operation with the remaining dough, you will get about 20 pieces). Heat the seed oil to 340°F (170°C) and fry the chiacchiere, a few at a time,  for about a couple of minutes .
Drain the filled chiacchiere with a skimmer and place them on a tray lined with absorbent paper , then let them cool slightly before serving !
We recommend consuming the filled chiacchiere immediately.
Custard cream, hazelnut cream, or other jams will tastefully vary these crispy chiacchiere. We've shaped them into triangles, but nothing stops you from making squares reminiscent of the traditional chiacchiere shape!
•Can they be baked?
We do not recommend it because the result might differ in terms of taste and texture.
• What can I substitute for the grappa?
You can use another aromatic liquor like rum, limoncello, or orange juice, without changing the dosage.
• If you don't have a pasta machine, can you roll out the dough with a rolling pin?
You can roll out the dough by hand, keeping in mind that the sheet should be quite thin, about 1/32 inch (1 mm) thick.
• Can you knead by hand if you don't have a mixer?
You can knead without a mixer: combine the ingredients in a bowl and help yourself with a fork at the beginning and then continue kneading by hand.
• Can you use creams instead of jam?
The chiacchiere can be filled with custard or even hazelnut cream.

