name:
Pasta with peppers, sausage and feta
ingredients:
Rigatoni: 11.3oz(320 g)
Yellow peppers: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Sausage: 7.1oz(200 g)
Feta cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Sage: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Pasta with pepper cream is a first course that brings joy with its bright color, bold, enticing, and honest flavor. The pasta with peppers, sausage, and feta further enriches the creamy base: the combination of Ricotta gnocchi with pepper cream and sausage has always been a winning classic. The Baked Feta with its freshness and pleasantly tangy note gives the dish an unforgettable touch and balances it perfectly. Pasta with peppers, sausage, and feta will win over all palates who appreciate it: quick to make and guaranteed success!
Do you want to try other recipes with similar combinations?
To prepare the pasta with peppers, sausage, and feta, we start with the vegetables. After cleaning the peppers cut them into irregular pieces of about 3 cm (1 1/4 inches) . Break the sausage by hand into pieces of about 2 cm (3/4 inch) after removing the casing and move to the stove .
Heat a non-stick pan and add the sausage , cook over high heat for about 5 minutes, add a pinch of pepper , and when it is well colored, place it in a bowl .
In the same pan, add the chopped peppers , salt, and cover with the lid, cooking for about 10 minutes on low heat ; we will need the pan again later. Meanwhile, put a pot of water on the stove to cook the pasta. When the peppers are cooked, transfer them to a blender bowl and add the oil .
Fragrance with sage, stripped thyme , the rosemary sprigs , and start blending .
Obtain a smooth cream and set aside . Crumble the feta with a knife, or even by hand for a more rustic effect , and return to the stove. Drop the rigatoni into boiling salted water to be drained al dente .
Return the sausage to the pan, heat , and when the pasta is cooked, drain it directly into the sauce . Add the pepper cream .
Extend with a ladle of cooking water and sauté over high heat for a couple of minutes. Turn off the heat and finish with crumbled feta . Here is your pasta with peppers, sausage, and feta ready .
Pasta with peppers, sausage, and feta can be kept in the refrigerator for up to one day.
Try adding a touch of sweet paprika, or even spicy if you like, to the pepper cream!

