name:
Brandacujun
ingredients:
Stockfish: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (already soaked)
Potatoes: 10.6oz(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(100 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1tbsp(15 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Brandacujun is not an exotic dish; it comes from Liguria, just like panissa ! It is a delicious appetizer made with stockfish creamed with potatoes, soft and aromatic, to be enjoyed spread on toasted bread croutons. An ancient recipe that, in texture and procedure, recalls other regional dishes made with cod fish, such as the famous Venetian creamed cod . It seems that this preparation was popular among sailors: stockfish and potatoes were always available on ships, practical foods to preserve and cook during long sea voyages. There are various explanations for the peculiar name Brandacujun , the least "naughty" one concerns the traditional gesture of repeatedly rotating (or brandishing) during cooking. By doing so, the potatoes and stockfish crumble and blend, achieving a perfect creaminess. The result is a creamy and enveloping dish with rustic but timeless flavors! Start with pre-soaked stockfish to skip the How to Desalt Cod !
Discover other ways to prepare cod and stockfish:

To prepare the brandacujun, cut the stockfish (already soaked) into fairly large pieces . Then peel the potatoes and cut them into coarse chunks . Wash and chop the parsley .
In a pot, add the stockfish and potatoes, cover with cold water and bring to a boil, it will take about 30-40 minutes of cooking over medium-high heat. While the fish is cooking, skim off any foam that forms on the surface using a skimmer .
The stockfish will be ready when it starts to flake. Drain it and let it cool slightly. Remove the skin and bones from the stockfish (this operation is easier after cooking). As you clean it, crumble it with your hands to shred it.
Chop the garlic , then add it to a large enough pan where you have heated a drizzle of oil , let it flavor well over moderate heat.
Add the stockfish with the potatoes , pour in more oil and the chopped parsley .
Cover with a lid and continue cooking over low heat. Every 5-7 minutes, rotate the pot off the heat to blend . In total, you should cook for about 1 hour, rotating occasionally and adding the rest of the oil a little at a time during the cooking . At the end of cooking, when everything is well crumbled, add salt and pepper.
Remove from the heat and scent with lemon zest . Brandacujun is ready to be enjoyed! Serve it hot, warm, or even cold on toasted bread .
Brandacujun can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
The ratio between stockfish and potatoes is 2:1. This ensures a good consistency and does not lose the flavor of the stockfish. You can accompany Brandacujun with toasted bread, Taggiasca olives, and toasted pine nuts. In some versions of the recipe, salted cod is used instead of stockfish.
Be careful not to confuse stockfish with Baked Cod , it is still cod, but the preservation method is different: in the first case, the fish is air-dried, while in the second it is salted. In both cases, it is necessary to soak it before use or buy it already soaked.

