name:
Carnival Fritters
ingredients:
Whole milk: 0.9cup(210 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Eggs: 8.1oz(230 g)- (4 whole)
Egg yolks: 2 ⅓tbsp(35 g)- (2 egg yolks)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the cooling time of the dough

instructions:
Every country has its own version of fried treats! Carnival fritters are typical Lombard sweets, and here they are, little fried, soft, and fragrant bites, to be enjoyed plain or filled with the most delicious creams, like custard , chantilly , chocolate cream , or Lemon Cream . The batter for the fritters is quite fluid, so it is spooned into the hot oil. During frying, the Carnival fritters puff up into delightful little balls to be tossed in granulated sugar, making them even more tempting! Like all traditional Carnival sweets, the fritters require only a few simple ingredients that will let you fill your party platter with the most loved fritters of all time!
Here are more fried and baked Carnival sweets to prepare at home:

To prepare the Carnival fritters, pour the milk into a saucepan, add the chopped butter , sugar, grated lemon zest , and salt . Bring the mixture to a boil, stirring with a wooden spoon.
When it reaches a boil, remove the saucepan from the heat and add the sifted flour along with the baking powder , and stir vigorously. Then return the saucepan to low heat and continue stirring for 2-3 minutes until you obtain a homogeneous mixture . Transfer the mixture to a bowl and let it cool slightly .
When it has cooled slightly, add the eggs one at a time , stirring well until each egg is fully incorporated before adding the next one; at the end, you should have a smooth and fluid mixture . In a deep saucepan, pour vegetable oil and heat it to 320°F-340°F. The fritters should fry slowly to prevent them from browning too quickly and staying raw inside, so before frying a batch, test a small amount of batter: it should brown slowly. When the oil is ready, scoop a spoonful of batter about the size of a walnut .
With another spoon, slide the batter into the oil , turn the fritter to make it evenly golden and puffed on all sides . Once golden, remove the fritters with a slotted spoon .
Place the fritters on a tray lined with paper towels to absorb the excess oil, then roll them in granulated sugar . Your Carnival fritters are ready to enjoy !
Carnival fritters are best eaten freshly fried while still warm, but they can also be served lukewarm!
If you want to store them, we recommend placing them in a tin box lined with paper towels, and closing it with a lid.
If you want to fill the Carnival fritters, fill a piping bag with the filling of your choice; after frying, poke holes in the fritters, fill them with cream, then sprinkle them with sugar.
If you like, you can add raisins to the batter or substitute the lemon zest with orange zest.
Discover all our Carnival fritter recipes!

