name:
Baked Spinach Crepes
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Spinach: 6.7cups(200 g)
Eggs: 2
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Spinach: 20cups(600 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Provola cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1 ¾cup(180 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Butter: to taste
Aromatic herbs: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the spinach crepes, first melt the butter (in the microwave or gently in a saucepan) and let it cool down. Place the baby spinach in a tall, narrow container. Add the milk , the now cooled melted butter , and the eggs .
Add a pinch of salt and blend everything with an immersion blender until you get a fairly liquid mixture. Add the flour and blend again until you obtain a smooth batter without lumps.
Grease a 9 1/2-inch crepe pan with a little butter and heat it well over the stove. Pour a ladle of batter in the center and rotate the pan to cover the entire surface . Cook for about 3 minutes, then as soon as it detaches from the edges, flip the crepe and cook for another minute. Transfer it to a plate and continue cooking the others, greasing the pan with a little butter each time. Arrange them on a serving plate or tray as you go .
Now prepare the filling. Transfer the baby spinach to a pan , without adding oil or other fats, just a pinch of salt. Cook them for a few minutes until wilted , then drain them well .
In another bowl, add the ricotta and grated Parmesan . Mix with a wooden spoon and add the spinach .
Then fill your crepes, spreading the cream only on half . Place two thin slices of provola on top and fold it into a half-moon shape .
Fold them again to form a small triangle and transfer the spinach crepes to a baking dish . Sprinkle with more grated Parmesan .
Add some butter knobs on top , a grind of black pepper , and aromatic herbs of your choice. Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 20 minutes until the provola is well melted .
The baked spinach crepes can be stored for 2-3 days in the refrigerator. We recommend reheating them before serving.
If you prefer, you can enrich this recipe with béchamel or replace the provola with other cheeses, such as tomino or brie.
The baked spinach crepes are the ideal choice for a Vegetarian Christmas Menu!

