name:
Clam Soup with Saffron
ingredients:
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Saffron: - 2 sachets of 0.15 g
Garlic: 2cloves
Parsley: 3sprigs
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Black pepper: to taste
White wine: 2.8oz(80 g)
Bread: 4slices- toasted

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the time to purge the clams (2 hours)

instructions:
When it comes to clams, one immediately thinks of a recipe: spaghetti alle vongole , one of the iconic dishes of Italian cuisine... today we want to show you another dish that will conquer you! Saffron clam soup is the perfect appetizer to start a seafood dinner. The clams in cooking will release a delicious broth that we have chosen to enrich with saffron for a truly unique taste! Prepare plenty of bread, preferably toasted, and discover with us how easy it is to make this recipe in just a few steps. The result is guaranteed... and so is the scarpetta! Discover more recipes with clams:

To prepare saffron clam soup, the first thing you need to do is to purge the clams. Check that there are no clams with broken shells; if so, discard them. Then rinse them under cold running water , and transfer them to a bowl. Fill the bowl with cold water and add some salt . Move the clams with your hands, rubbing them together, so that they release all the sand. Change the water with salt, then leave them to soak for 1 or 2 hours, changing the water and salt a couple of times. In the end, the water should be clean .
After this time, pour a swirl of oil into a pot, 2 peeled garlic cloves , some parsley sprigs, and the whole but cut chili pepper lengthwise with a knife . Let it flavor for 1-2 minutes, then pour in the previously drained clams .
Deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate for 1-2 minutes. Then cover with a lid and cook for about 3-4 minutes, until all the clams have opened .
Now filter the clams , remove the chili pepper, garlic, and parsley . Collect the hot cooking liquid from the clams in a bowl .
Add the saffron and stir with a spoon until it has completely dissolved .
Transfer the clams to the plates , if you prefer for convenience you can separate some from the shells. Pour the hot broth over the top and serve your saffron clam soup with croutons .
It is recommended to consume the saffron clam soup as soon as it is ready.
If you are a pasta lover, you can use this soup to dress some spaghetti. Just drain them very al dente and finish cooking them within the soup!
Saffron should be dissolved in a little warm-hot water (in this case, the clam broth) to dissolve the powder evenly.

