name:
Stuffed Veal
ingredients:
Veal sirloin: 2.2lbs(1.2 kg)
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Onions: 1
White wine: 0.4cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Water: ⅔cup(150 g)- hot
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Spinach: 10.5oz(300 g)
Bread: 1.75oz(50 g)- crumb
Prosciutto cotto: 5.3oz(150 g)
Eggs: 1
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.8tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
Christmas Menu still undecided? A good wine to uncork and a rich and tasty dish like the stuffed veal pocket will make your holiday lunch truly special! This succulent main course of home tradition will please everyone: slices of tender veal stuffed with a mouth-watering filling, all accompanied by the indispensable roasted potatoes and a finger-licking sauce! The patient and long cooking time is the secret of this dish; the time we lovingly dedicate to cooking will reward us with joyful and convivial moments to spend with family or friends, and, above all, a well-deserved toast to the cook!
To prepare the stuffed veal pocket, start with the filling: wash the spinach under running water, then heat the olive oil in a pan, add the peeled garlic clove and the still-wet spinach , cover with the lid and let it wilt for 3-4 minutes over medium heat.
Once the spinach is soft, turn off the heat, remove the garlic clove and drain the spinach in a colander to remove the excess water . Let the spinach cool and take the loaf of bread, remove the crust
and place the crumb in the blender , blend to obtain a minced mixture . Cut the cooked ham into pieces ,
place it in the blender to chop it finely . Take the now cold spinach and chop it with a knife .
In a large bowl, add the spinach, grated cheese , grated bread crumbs, chopped cooked ham, and the egg . Knead with your hands to obtain a homogeneous mixture.
Salt and pepper and set the filling aside. Now take the meat, trim the fat , and cut the central part to create a pocket
Fill the pocket with the stuffing , sew the cut with kitchen string to close the pocket well so that the filling does not come out. At this point, tie the meat as you usually do for roasts . For better execution of this process, you can read our guide how to tie a roast.
Proceed with cooking the stuffed veal pocket: wash and peel the celery, carrot, and onion, then cut the vegetables into pieces (22-23-24).
Heat the oil in the pan , place the veal pocket and brown it on both sides for a few minutes until the surface is well golden .
Now add the chopped vegetables , deglaze with white wine , cover with hot water ,
flavor with rosemary , cover with the lid and cook on low heat for 75 minutes, turning the veal occasionally and covering it with the cooking liquid. In the meantime, prepare the potatoes: wash, peel, and cut them into large wedges ,
place them in a bowl, season with oil, salt, garlic, and rosemary , then place them on a baking sheet and bake in a ventilated oven at 425°F for 50 minutes or until well roasted .
In the meantime, the veal will also be cooked , remove the rosemary sprig , pour the cooking liquid into a blender cup, and blend to obtain a smooth sauce .
Take the stuffed veal pocket, remove the string , cut it into slices and serve the hot meat accompanied by the potatoes and the cooking sauce.
The stuffed veal pocket can be stored in the fridge covered for 2-3 days with plastic wrap, it can also be frozen whole or already sliced together with the cooking sauce.
To stuff the veal pocket, you can alternatively use speck, mortadella, or pancetta instead of ham.

