name:
Walnut Bread
ingredients:
Whole grain flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Spelt flour: 1 ⅓cup(160 g)
Buckwheat flour: ⅓cup(40 g)
Walnut kernels: ¾cup(100 g)
Water: 1 ½cup(340 g)- lukewarm
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(3 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + rising time (4 and a half hours)

instructions:
Baking bread at home is always enchanting, with flour floating everywhere and the aroma spreading quickly throughout all the rooms, making this moment truly magical. Kneading dough is a natural stress-reliever that allows you to enjoy fresh bread on the table every day, with the knowledge of the ingredients used. To enrich your breadbasket and offer a variation from the classic loaf , there are endless variations. After the Pumpkin Bread and Beer Bread versions, today we want to propose a classic yet original idea: walnut bread! Thanks to a blend of three flours, you'll get a rustic and pleasant taste... you'll easily fall in love with its crispy crust and soft crumb that hides a treasure within its pockets, a cascade of chopped walnuts! So what are you waiting for? Tie on your aprons and prepare walnut bread... there's nothing better than a slice of this still warm loaf!
To prepare walnut bread, start with the walnuts, chop them and set them aside. Now, proceed to make the dough: combine the three flours (spelt, whole wheat, and buckwheat) in the bowl of a stand mixer and add the dry yeast .
At this point, turn on the machine with a hook attachment at moderate speed and slowly pour in the water . Mix everything for 8-10 minutes until you get a well-bonded dough; only then can you add the salt and the walnuts . If you don't have a stand mixer, you can knead by hand following the order of ingredients as described in the process.
Once the walnuts and salt are well incorporated, stop the machine and use a dough scraper to transfer the dough onto a lightly floured work surface . Using your hands, fold the dough , which will give your bread its structure. Then shape the dough into a ball .
and place it inside a bowl . Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise in the oven turned off with only the light on for 3.5 hours. Once it has doubled in size , transfer the dough again onto a lightly floured work surface, using the scraper again .
Fold the dough again and shape the bread into a loaf , then place it on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Let it rise for another hour at room temperature, protected from drafts. Then make the classic cuts on the surface of the bread with a very sharp blade . Preheat the static oven to 464°F by placing a small bowl of water at the bottom; when the oven is well heated, bake the bread on the second lowest rack. Wait 20 minutes, then lower the temperature to 428°F, remove the bowl of water, and bake for another 20 minutes. Once baked , let your walnut bread cool slightly before slicing and serving it .
Walnut bread can be stored in a plastic or paper bag for about 2 days. If you prefer, once baked, it can be frozen, perhaps sliced so you can defrost only the amount you want to consume!
If you want to opt for a long fermentation, you can let the dough rise overnight in the refrigerator, after which it will be sufficient to let it come to room temperature for 2 hours, give it the classic shape, wait for the second rise, and bake it!
To get different bread every time, use olives or hazelnuts instead of walnuts!

