name:
Fusilloni with sausage, yellow cherry tomatoes, and provolone
ingredients:
Fusilloni pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Sausage: 0.9lb(400 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 12.3oz(350 g)- yellow
Provolone cheese: 4.2oz(120 g)
White wine: 2.1oz(60 g)
Shallot: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: 4sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
We really wanted a pasta that had flavorful notes given by the sausage but with an original touch. So we thought of fusilloni with sausage, yellow cherry tomatoes, and provolone. A rich and irresistible mix: the sausage is mellowed by the presence of the now-famous yellow cherry tomatoes and everything gets an extra dose of flavor when it meets the grated provolone. A summer first course that will tantalize your palate with the harmony of flavors that assertive palates will appreciate. Get in the kitchen to prepare fusilloni with sausage, yellow cherry tomatoes, and provolone and let us know what you think!
Looking for more ideas for flavorful first courses with sausage and tomatoes? Check out these suggestions!
To prepare fusilloni with sausage, yellow cherry tomatoes, and provolone, start with the tomatoes: clean and halve them . Then remove the casing from the sausage and cut it into chunks , and finally, coarsely chop it .
At the stove, put a pot of water to cook the pasta, then a skillet with a bit of oil. Add the chopped shallot and stew over low heat for a few minutes. Then add the sausage and let it brown for a few minutes .
Deglaze with white wine and when the alcohol has evaporated, add the chopped tomatoes . At this point, you can drop the pasta in the water .
While the pasta is cooking, grate the provolone . Add salt, pepper, and thyme leaves to the sauce, and when the pasta is al dente, drain it into the skillet .
Briefly sauté, adding a little water as needed . Finish cooking, stirring frequently , and plate, topping with cheese. Here are the fusilloni with sausage, yellow cherry tomatoes, and provolone ready to enjoy .
It is recommended to consume fusilloni with sausage, yellow cherry tomatoes, and provolone immediately.
If you want to add a crunchy and flavorful note to your fusilloni with sausage, yellow cherry tomatoes, and provolone, toast some breadcrumbs with aromatic herbs and chili pepper.

