name:
Tripe with Beans
ingredients:
Dried cannellini beans: 5.3oz(150 g)
Tripe: 2.1lbs(950 g)
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
White onions: 1
Peeled tomatoes: 3 ¼cups(750 g)
Water: 1.7cups(400 g)
Bay leaves: 4leaves
Garlic: 2cloves
Marjoram: 3sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 2 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the soaking time for dried beans

instructions:
The tripe with beans recipe takes us back to a rustic and timeless home kitchen. Many of you will know and appreciate Roman-style tripe , the Parmesan-style tripe from Emilia-Romagna, Florentine tripe , or the spiced Milanese busecca . Tripe is a peasant dish that keeps alive a simple and genuine culinary taste that is still passed down from family to family. This recipe calls for the addition of delicately flavored cannellini beans, which will give more body to the dish. Serve the tripe with beans with some toasted bread and a good glass of red wine!
To prepare the tripe with beans, place the cannellini beans in a bowl and soak them in cold water for 12 hours . After this time, drain, rinse, and cook them in a pot, starting with cold water. Also, add some bay leaves . Cooking time will be about 1 to 1.5 hours: they should be soft but still firm. Clean and finely chop celery, carrot, and onion .
Cut the tripe into strips and rinse it thoroughly under running water. Mash the peeled tomatoes with a fork . Pour a drizzle of oil into a saucepan, add celery, carrot, onion, and garlic . Sauté for 5 minutes.
Add the tripe and let it brown for another 5 minutes . Then add the tomatoes and water, using the same bowl that contained the tomatoes . Season with salt.
Cover with a lid and continue cooking for about 40 minutes. Halfway through cooking, remove the garlic . After about 40 minutes, the beans should also be cooked
Drain them and add them to the pan with the tripe and season with marjoram leaves .
Continue cooking for about 20 minutes . Adjust salt and pepper and serve the tripe with beans hot .
Tripe with beans can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1-2 days, covered with plastic wrap; if desired, it can also be frozen.

