name:
Pasta with potatoes and mussels
ingredients:
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Potatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Ditaloni pasta: 7.1oz(200 g)
Tomato purée: 3tbsp(40 g)
Shallot: 1
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1tuft
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
For the series of creamy first courses, here is a delicious suggestion: pasta with potatoes and mussels. Have you tried pasta and potatoes and tasted the spaghetti with mussels ? Imagine what a winning combination to bring together the best of these two dishes: the creaminess of the potatoes that release starch during cooking and act as a binder, combined with the unmistakable taste and softness of the seafood. Tasty and fragrant, this first course will conquer everyone! A bit of tomato sauce will add an extra note of color, but you can also choose the white variant. All that's left is to prepare the pasta with potatoes and mussels and let yourself be captivated by its intense and typically Mediterranean flavor!
Discover also other super creamy dishes with potatoes or tasty with mussels such as:
To prepare pasta with potatoes and mussels, keep a saucepan with water on the stove to keep it warm. Start by cleaning the mussels: wash them carefully under running water, then detach the byssus with a firm pull and scrub if necessary with a knife to remove impurities from the shell. Chop the parsley . Also chop the peeled garlic, removing its core .
Chop the chili pepper , with or without seeds as you prefer. Sauté the garlic and chili pepper for a few moments in a large pan drizzled with oil to taste , stirring occasionally. After a few moments, add the mussels to the pan .
Add a ladleful of water and cover with a lid . After a few minutes, your mussels will have opened, at this point, turn off the heat. Season with chopped parsley . Put the lid back on and let it rest for a few minutes, perhaps while you continue with the rest of the preparation.
Then you can drain the mussels, filtering the cooking liquid which you can heat in the same pot you cooked the mussels or in a small saucepan. Then you can shell them . Proceed to peel the potatoes .
Cut them into 1/2-inch cubes . Clean and chop the shallot , place it to sauté in a large non-stick pan drizzled with oil to taste . Stir occasionally to prevent it from burning.
After a few minutes, add the potatoes . Cover them with the mussel liquid , let them cook over medium heat until the potatoes are softened and cooked. When they are ready, add the tomato sauce , stir.
Now it's time to add the pasta and add hot water to cover , then add more if necessary during cooking. Salt and pepper to taste, cook for the time indicated on the pasta package. Finally, add the basil leaves for fragrance .
Add the shelled mussels , stir and serve your pasta with potatoes and mussels !
It is recommended to consume immediately.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can leave or remove the chili seeds depending on your preferred level of spiciness.
If you like, you can deglaze the mussels with white wine to open them.

