name:
Italian brutti ma buoni cookies
ingredients:
Whole peeled hazelnuts: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Egg whites: (150 g)
Vanilla bean: 1- the pulp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
“Appearances can be deceiving,” says the popular saying, and brutti ma buoni (ugly but good) cookies are proof of this. Just like in fairy tales, beneath the rough and irregular appearance of these cookies lies a pure and genuine delight! Perhaps that's why they always garner great success and have rightfully become part of the confectionery tradition of the whole Boot, especially during the Christmas season! Made with a mixture of meringue and hazelnut pieces, the brutti ma buoni cookies are simple treats originating from northern Italy, which have spread with slight variations but keep intact the essence of a recipe that owes its success to simplicity. Whether you're a fan of brutti ma buoni cookies or have never tried them before, today is the perfect day to start making them at home: follow our step-by-step recipe and enjoy the happy ending!
To make the brutti ma buoni cookies, first chop the hazelnuts in a mixer until you get a not overly fine crumb . Set aside and pour the egg whites into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment .
Start whisking and add the seeds from the vanilla bean . When the egg whites become light and frothy, add the sugar little by little . Continue whisking at medium speed for another 5 minutes: you should obtain a stiff and firm mixture, with the classic peak .
Incorporate the hazelnut crumb into the meringue , gently mixing from bottom to top with a spatula . Transfer the mixture into a stainless-steel pot and cook over medium or medium-high heat for about 15 minutes, stirring continuously with a soft spatula .
When the mixture has thickened , form small heaps on a baking tray lined with parchment paper, using 2 tablespoons to help you, and space them apart . Bake in a preheated static oven at 266°F for 40-45 minutes: they should dry out without burning. Once cooked, remove from the oven and let the brutti ma buoni cookies cool completely before enjoying them !
Brutti ma buoni cookies can be stored for 7-8 days in a tin box.
If you prefer, you can flavor the brutti ma buoni cookies with a pinch of cinnamon instead of vanilla!
The brutti ma buoni cookies should be dry even inside, but keep in mind that they will harden a bit as they cool. The cooking time may vary by a few minutes, so we recommend baking a first batch with a few cookies to best adjust based on the characteristics of your oven.

