name:
Lumaconi Parmesan Style
ingredients:
Lumaconi pasta: 10.6oz(300 g)
Eggplant: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: 5tsp(30 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Peanut seed oil: 21.2oz(600 g)- for frying
Canned tomatoes: 28.2oz(800 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + at least one hour to purge the eggplants

instructions:
We were inspired by two classic Italian recipes, baked pasta and eggplant Parmesan , to create a rich and succulent first course: lumaconi Parmesan style! This giant pasta shape naturally calls for generous and hearty sauces, which can also be transformed into tasty fillings like in the case of Lumaconi with sausage and scamorza . For the Parmesan-style variant, we started with a simple tomato and basil sauce enriched with fried eggplants, mozzarella, and Parmesan before heading into the final gratin with a guaranteed melted effect. Ideal to prepare in advance, lumaconi Parmesan style are perfect for a night with friends because while the dish is in the oven, you'll have plenty of time to entertain your guests!
Also try the version with gnocchi , simply irresistible!
To prepare lumaconi Parmesan style, first cut the eggplants into cubes , then transfer them to a colander and add 30 g of coarse salt . Let them rest for at least an hour to remove excess water; you can cover the eggplants with a plate and place a weight on top to facilitate this process .
Next, prepare the sauce: pour the oil into a non-stick pan and sauté the crushed or whole garlic clove . When the garlic starts to brown, add the tomato pulp, salt , pepper, and let it cook for 30 minutes on low heat with the lid on. Once cooked, add a few hand-torn basil leaves for flavor, turn off the heat and set aside. In the meantime, cut the mozzarella into cubes .
After the soaking time for the eggplants, rinse them thoroughly under running water to remove excess salt and pat them dry with a kitchen cloth , then coat them uniformly with flour .
Remove the excess flour using a sieve . Now heat the vegetable oil to a temperature of 340°F, then fry the eggplants until golden brown . Drain on paper towels to remove the excess oil and set aside. In the meantime, bring a pot of water to a boil for cooking the pasta.
When the water comes to a boil, salt it and cook the lumaconi for about 8 minutes . Then drain them in a large bowl where you have poured the sauce and mix well to combine. At this point, oil a 12x8-inch baking dish .
Distribute the lumaconi with the sauce in the baking dish, then add the fried eggplants , the cubed mozzarella , and some chopped basil leaves .
After adding all the ingredients , sprinkle the dish with Parmesan and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 30 minutes. Remove from the oven and let it rest for a few minutes, then serve your lumaconi Parmesan style !
Parmesan-style lumaconi can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Friends for dinner but afraid of not timing the preparation well? No problem! You can prepare the dish in the afternoon and bake it according to the preparation times before serving. To ensure the sauce is evenly distributed in your lumaconi, you can pour some of the sauce directly into the pasta!

