name:
Chicken Rolls
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 8slices
Prosciutto cotto: 4.25oz(120 g)
Spinach: 4 ½cups(500 g)
Fontina cheese: 7oz(200 g)
White wine: 2.7oz(80 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Rolls that passion! These delicious meat rolls, perfect as a second course, lend themselves to the most exquisite and imaginative fillings. Be inspired by seasonal vegetables to create inviting recipes such as veal rolls with Asparagus Stuffed Rolls or those with green beans . Those who love citrus flavors can try the Loin rolls with lemon , aromatic and fragrant. For those who can't resist the cheesy effect, we propose a homemade recipe with evergreen flavors: chicken rolls stuffed with spinach, cheese, and ham. A dish of simple goodness that can be offered all year round, accompanied by mashed potatoes in the colder months or a fresh salad in the warmer ones! Also, discover our recipe for Meat and Bacon Rolls and our chicken breast and zucchini pinwheels .
Discover more delicious Chicken recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the chicken rolls, start by boiling the fresh spinach in salted boiling water for a few seconds . Once blanched, stop the cooking in ice water , drain them well, squeeze out all the water using a towel, and finally chop them finely with a knife .
Using a meat tenderizer, gently pound the chicken breast slices to make them thinner and more uniform, then salt them . Place the sliced cooked ham to size on each slice of meat and two thin slices of fontina cheese .
Finally, stuff with a tablespoon of boiled spinach . Then start rolling the chicken tightly from one end to the other, securing it at the end with a toothpick ; continue this way for all the rolls. Heat the oil in a non-stick pan and place the rolls . Brown on all sides over high heat.
When they are well browned, deglaze with white wine . Let the wine evaporate, cook the rolls for about 15 more minutes over low heat (the cooking times will depend on the thickness of the meat); if during cooking the meat dries out excessively, add some hot water. When the chicken rolls are ready , serve them piping hot!
Keep the chicken rolls in the fridge for a maximum of one day.
You can freeze them after cooking if you used fresh ingredients.
Try them also with caciocavallo cheese instead of fontina or with chard as an alternative to spinach if you prefer a less bitter taste. If you want to create an accompanying sauce, add a tablespoon of creamy cheese to the cooking base and let it melt, then blend everything with an immersion blender to make the sauce smooth and creamy.

