name:
Catalan-style Cauliflower
ingredients:
Cauliflower: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Eggs: 2
Salted capers: 1spoonful
Parsley: 1tuft- to chop
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 6tbsp(80 g)
Red wine vinegar: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Garlic: 2cloves
Sugar: 2tsp
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 22 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + 1 hour resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
We usually associate the term “Catalan-style” with shellfish and mollusks, the stars of delicious seafood recipes like the famous Catalan Lobster . This time, however, we offer you an unusual pairing: Catalan-style cauliflower! A rich and flavorful side dish, garnished with capers and crumbled hard-boiled eggs and dressed with a vinaigrette with zesty notes. Excellent to enjoy cold or at room temperature, the Catalan-style cauliflower is very easy to prepare and will add a touch of originality to your menus!
Also try these tasty cauliflower-based side dishes:
To prepare the Catalan-style cauliflower, first bring a pot of lightly salted water to a boil, then move on to cleaning the cauliflower: remove the stem and outer leaves and divide it into florets . Rinse the florets under running water , place them in the pot, and cook for about 12 minutes .
Meanwhile, prepare the dressing: finely chop 2 garlic cloves and place them inside a jar, then add the olive oil , the juice of half a lemon , the red wine vinegar ,
the sugar , and the paprika . Close the jar and shake it to mix everything well .
Once the cauliflower cooking time is up, drain it and transfer it to a large bowl, pour the dressing inside and mix to combine it evenly , then cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate for about an hour.
Near the end of the resting time, you can prepare the hard-boiled eggs: place whole eggs in a saucepan with cold water, bring to a boil and boil over medium heat for 10 minutes , then drain and cool them under a thin stream of running water. Carefully peel the hard-boiled eggs and finely chop them with a knife .
Take the cauliflower out of the fridge, sprinkle it with the hard-boiled eggs , the desalted capers , and the chopped parsley, and serve your tasty Catalan-style cauliflower !
The Catalan-style cauliflower can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
You can vary the recipe by using green or purple cauliflower and adding sliced black olives to make it even more flavorful!

