name:
Pasta cabbage and bacon
ingredients:
Organic Spaghetti pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Cabbage: 7oz(200 g)
Red cabbage: 2 ¼cups(200 g)
Smoked pancetta: 5.6oz(160 g)- flat, thin slices
Stracchino cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Oregano: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The hunger pangs are kicking in, you need an immediate boost of energy and flavor. With pasta, cabbage, and bacon, you can't go wrong: a creamy and tasty main dish that will convince even the most skeptical about these vegetables. Every forkful of this delightful pasta will only make you want more because it's that good. You can share it with friends for a hearty lunch after an intense sports activity or a morning of studying. But adults will go crazy for it too: pasta, cabbage, and bacon is suitable for all occasions, for those who want a complete dish that combines wellness and taste.
To prepare pasta, cabbage, and bacon, bring the pasta water to a boil and add salt when boiling. Stack the slices of bacon, roll them up , then cut them into strips . Heat a pan without adding extra fats and place the bacon to brown. Stir occasionally with a wooden spoon .
In about 4 minutes, it will be crispy and will have released its fat. Drain it with a slotted spoon on kitchen paper and set aside (4-5). Set aside the cooking fat and boil the spaghetti .
Meanwhile, clean the white and purple cabbage: wash them and cut the amount indicated in the recipe into julienne strips (7-8). In the same pan where you cooked the bacon, add the purple cabbage
and the white cabbage , stir , salt and pepper to taste and cook over medium-high heat for 6-7 minutes, adding water if it dries out too much and stirring occasionally.
After the cooking time is over, turn off the heat and drain the pasta directly into the pan ; if necessary, add a little cooking water and toss quickly, then add dollops of stracchino
and cover with a lid . After 30 seconds (up to 1 minute), toss the pasta again; the stracchino at this point will be melted. Serve the pasta on plates, adding the crispy bacon and, if desired, more dollops of stracchino . If you prefer, season with a sprinkle of black pepper, oregano and serve your pasta with cabbage and bacon !
It is recommended to consume pasta, cabbage, and bacon immediately after preparation. It can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 1 day.

For a crunchy touch, you can add nuts like hazelnuts or almonds!


