name:
Savory pie with black cabbage
ingredients:
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 10.5oz(300 g)
Leeks: 1
Eggs: 3
Edam cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3oz(80 g)
Water: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: 2sprigs
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- iced
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
It is one of the main stars of Tuscan cuisine, and its flavor is truly unique! The black cabbage, bitter and tasty, is an essential ingredient in recipes like ribollita or a Pasta with Black Kale . But today, we introduce a new recipe that will always be at your disposal when you're in the mood for something tasty and delightful. We're talking about the savory pie with black cabbage, an original appetizer for a dinner with friends or a rustic pie to serve at a house party. The intense flavor of black cabbage is softened by the addition of leeks and cheese, which will become gooey and succulent during cooking. This savory pie with black cabbage will be a treat to which you will hardly say no. Have you done your shopping? Let's begin! And if you're looking for more recipes with black cabbage, try our Calamarata with black cabbage and 'nduja !
To prepare the savory pie with black cabbage, start with the shortcrust pastry . Just put the flour, cold butter, and salt into the mixer . Then activate the blades until the mixture starts to crumble, then add the ice-cold water . Transfer the mixture to a work surface, compact it with your hands, and wrap it in plastic wrap. Let it firm up in the refrigerator for at least 40 minutes .
Meanwhile, prepare the filling. Clean a leek by removing the two ends and then cutting it vertically. Discard the first 2 leaves and then slice it into thin rings .
Finally, clean the black cabbage, ensuring the leaves are intact and not yellowed, then cut into 1-inch pieces and rinse. Move to the stove. In a saucepan, heat a splash of oil and add the leek . Let it stew for 2-3 minutes over medium heat , adding a little water to prevent it from burning .
At this point, you can add the black cabbage , season with salt and pepper, and stir . Cover with a lid and cook over medium heat for 15 minutes; remember to stir occasionally .
After the time has passed, transfer the mixture to a bowl and let it cool completely before adding the grated cheese , then the Edam cheese cut into about 1/2-inch cubes ,
and the eggs . Season with another pinch of salt and then add the thyme leaves . At this point, the shortcrust pastry should be ready. Retrieve it, remove the plastic wrap, and roll it out on a lightly floured work surface .
Roll out the dough until you get a disk about 1/4 inch thick. Wrap it around the rolling pin and unroll the shortcrust pastry into a fluted 9-inch pan . Trim the excess with a knife . Prick the base with a fork and then pour in the filling .
Your savory pie is ready to bake in a static oven, preheated to 355°F, on the lowest shelf (not in contact with the base) for about 55 minutes. If you notice the pie is turning too golden halfway through, cover it with a sheet of aluminum foil . The savory pie with black cabbage is ready; wait a few minutes before removing it from the mold and enjoying it !
The savory pie with black cabbage can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, covered with plastic wrap or under a cake dome. If you prefer, you can also freeze it if you've used fresh ingredients. In this case, you can slice it before putting it in the freezer.
Is Edam cheese not your favorite? Choose the cheese you love the most for your savory pie with black cabbage: it will always be a great choice! For a more rustic touch, we suggest adding diced bacon, sweet or smoked; you'll see what a delight. And why not some parboiled potatoes?

