name:
Chicken Pizzaiola
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.4lbs(640 g)
Capers in vinegar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Tomato purée: 2cups(450 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 6.3oz(180 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: 6leaves
Oregano: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Chicken recipes are always a solution that pleases everyone! If the dish is as cheesy and saucy as our chicken pizzaiola, success is guaranteed! We were inspired by the sauce of meat pizzaiola scented with oregano and added mozzarella slices that, with their cheesy touch at the end of cooking, will make the chicken breasts a real delicacy. Even the capers will add an extra touch to this inviting preparation. An easy and quick recipe that with little effort will allow you to obtain a truly exquisite main course!
Discover more ideas for cooking chicken:
Discover more delicious Chicken recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the chicken pizzaiola, first clean your breasts, remove the central bone part, the excess fat , and cut it to obtain 4 slices .
Also, slice the mozzarella , let it drain in a colander to lose some of the excess whey. Crush a garlic clove and brown it in a non-stick pan with a drizzle of oil . Sear the chicken breasts for about 3 minutes on each side on high heat to get some color . Remove the garlic clove and adjust with salt and pepper.
After browning, remove the breasts and set them aside . In the same pan, pour the capers
and the tomato sauce which you will cook for about 5 minutes. At this point, put your chicken breasts back in the pan and cook the chicken for about 10 minutes with a lid .
After cooking, add hand-torn basil leaves , place the mozzarella on the breasts and add oregano ,
cover again and cook for a few minutes on low heat just until the mozzarella melts a little . Your chicken pizzaiola is ready to enjoy .
It is recommended to consume the chicken pizzaiola immediately; if there are leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator for up to a couple of days. You can freeze the preparation if you have used fresh, non-defrosted ingredients.
We recommend draining the mozzarella well; otherwise, it will release water during cooking. If the chicken slices are too thick, you can make them thinner with a meat tenderizer.

