name:
Roman maritozzi recipe
ingredients:
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)- (natural, bottled)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Type 0 flour: 3.53oz(100 g)- (Strength = W 320)
Type 0 flour: 3 ½cups(400 g)- with W 320
Sugar: 4tbsp(55 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.3oz(8 g)
Honey: 2tsp(10 g)
Whole milk: (175 g)
Eggs: 4.4oz(125 g)- (approximately 2 medium, at room temperature)
Orange peel: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 5.1tbsp(75 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Raisins: ½cup(90 g)
Pine nuts: 4tbsp(50 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Eggs: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: 1.7cups(400 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 25 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the dough rising times

instructions:
Imagine walking through Rome and suddenly craving something sweet, admiring the beauties of the Capital while enjoying a soft dessert rich in cream. Discover this wonder with chef Fabrizio Fiorani who has prepared delicious maritozzi for us, so soft that it will feel like a dream tasting them. And what greater satisfaction than making them at home with doses and secrets for a perfect result? Secrets because the maritozzo does not have a codified recipe, everyone has their own personal method to make them soft and fragrant. For example, chef Fiorani uses a pre-ferment, adds honey, orange, and vanilla for an intoxicating aroma, and inserts pine nuts and raisins into the dough, following tradition. We do not dwell on the differences between typical Roman, Lazio, or Abruzzo maritozzi because they are all fabulous. We invite you to prepare his recipe and share your sensations with us, bite after bite enveloped in a cloud of whipped cream!
To prepare the maritozzi, first make the pre-ferment. In a bowl, pour the water , add the yeast , and mix with a whisk until it dissolves .
Then add the flour and mix with a spatula just until you get a homogeneous mixture. Cover with plastic wrap .
Let it mature for 2 hours at around 86°F: an off oven with the light on will work . When the pre-ferment has doubled in volume, pour the flour into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a hook , add the crumbled yeast .
the sugar and honey . Also pour in the cold milk and eggs .
Work the mixture until it is well blended . Add the grated orange zest, being careful to take only the orange part , and the seeds from a vanilla pod .
Continue working until they are absorbed, then add the pre-ferment and knead again. When it is blended, slowly add the extra virgin olive oil, in 2-3 additions.
When it is well absorbed, add the salt , raisins , and pine nuts .
Continue kneading until well combined . Then transfer the dough to a work surface , shape it into a ball and place it in a bowl .
Lightly grease a piece of plastic wrap and use it to seal the bowl . Let it rise for 2 hours at room temperature, then place it in the refrigerator overnight. The next day, remove the plastic wrap .
and transfer the dough to a floured work surface . Using a dough scraper, divide it into 20 pieces of about 1.8 oz each . Make quick folds ,
then shape the balls and place them on a baking sheet with a micro-perforated mat if possible . Cover with the previously greased plastic wrap and let rise for another hour.
Then gently remove the plastic wrap . In a small bowl, pour equal weights of cream and eggs , beat them and use to brush the maritozzi .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 374°F for 7-8 minutes , then remove and let cool. Whip the cream (without adding sugar) and transfer it to a piping bag .
Make a lateral cut in the maritozzi , pipe a generous amount of cream inside , and smooth it well with a spatula .
Dust with powdered sugar and continue the same way with the others. Serve and enjoy them in company .
The maritozzi, once baked, can be stored, without the filling, under a glass dome for a couple of days or can be frozen. When ready to serve, simply fill them with cream. Once filled, we recommend consuming them immediately, or at least within a few hours. You can store them in the fridge if needed.
If you do not like raisins and pine nuts, you can omit them in the recipe preparation. Instead of honey, you can use the same amount of malt or sugar. If you do not have a micro-perforated mat, you can use parchment paper. We recommend using a silicone brush; those with bristles are a bit risky in the kitchen because they might lose bristles that will stick to your desserts. It's important that the milk is "fridge cold" while the eggs are at room temperature.

