name:
Chocolate and vanilla layer cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(380 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Eggs: 9.5oz(270 g)- (4 medium) at room temperature
Corn oil: 0.8cup(180 g)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(180 g)- at room temperature
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: ½cup(40 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you are looking for a dessert to prepare for the whole family's breakfast, here is our Chocolate and vanilla layer cake! A tall and fluffy cake that will win you over with its double tasty side: vanilla and cocoa, a winning combination in any form... some will love the light part, some will try to take only the cocoa part, and some, like us, love to enjoy them together! This cake without butter will be very soft thanks to the addition of oil and the air incorporated into the batter during preparation. What are you waiting for to try it?
To prepare the Chocolate and vanilla layer cake, first put the eggs in a bowl along with a pinch of salt . Whip them with an electric mixer for a few seconds and as soon as the mixture becomes foamy, add the sugar .
and the seeds you have extracted from the vanilla bean . Whip again for 5 minutes , until you get a puffy and frothy mixture .
Add the oil and the milk . Whip again for 2 minutes .
Add half of the sifted flour and mix again with the mixer until it is absorbed . Then add the remaining flour, always sifting it .
and mix again with the mixer . Also add the sifted baking powder and incorporate it into the rest by mixing with the electric mixer .
Finally, mix with a spatula, then divide the batter in half, transferring it into two bowls in equal measure. In one of the two bowls, add the sifted cocoa and mix it into the batter with the electric mixer .
Butter a 9-inch cake pan. Pour half of the light batter into the pan , spread it with a spatula , and pour all the cocoa batter on top .
Complete with the remaining light batter and if necessary, smooth it gently . Bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 50 minutes. Always do the toothpick test before taking the cake out of the oven .
Let it cool, transfer the cake to a plate , and decorate it with powdered sugar . The two-tone cake is ready to be served .
The two-tone cake keeps for 3 days under a glass dome.
You can add chocolate chips and half a small glass of rum to the batter for an even more delicious version.

