name:
Fresh Salmon Farfalle
ingredients:
Bow tie pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Salmon: 11.6oz(330 g)- (otherwise 7.4 oz without skin)
Red onions: 2.1oz(60 g)
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The recipe for fresh salmon farfalle is the ultimate dinner saver. We have experimented with the combination of farfalle and salmon in summer pastas like Farfalle with salmon, arugula, and cherry tomatoes and the cold pasta with salmon , or in the spring version Farfalle with salmon, snow peas, and confit cherry tomatoes with arugula pesto . In this case, we have created a classic, suitable for any season: fresh salmon and cream come together to create a creamy and irresistible sauce. This is an easy and quick first course, similar to spaghetti with garlic, oil, and chili pepper , tuna pasta , and even a similar version with ham ! This is a dish that can be prepared in a matter of minutes, and with a couple of tricks, you will get a perfect dish!
If you are passionate about salmon pasta , don't miss tagliolini with salmon , Pasta with salmon and potatoes , and Creamy salmon and mushroom pasta !
To prepare fresh salmon farfalle, we start with the fish. Place it on a dry cutting board and with a smooth, sharp blade, slide it between the skin and the flesh. Then cut into 1-inch chunks and .
Now peel the onion and finely chop it . Move to the stove and cook the farfalle: drop them into boiling salted water and cook according to the times indicated on the package . In a pan, pour the oil and add the onion: let it turn golden for a few moments
before adding the salmon . Cook it for 2-3 minutes, stirring gently and making sure it doesn't become too dry. At this point, deglaze with white wine , and when the alcohol has evaporated, add the cream
and continue cooking for a couple more minutes at most because the pasta should now be cooked: drain it into the sauce . Turn up the heat, stir, and add water as needed if the sauce is too dry. Chop a little parsley , add it to the pan, and your fresh salmon farfalle are ready, enjoy immediately !
It would be ideal to consume the fresh salmon farfalle immediately, but if you prefer, you can store it in the refrigerator for one day, keeping it well sealed in a container. The next day, reheat with a drop of cream or hot water.
This dish has everything it needs. But for a bit more color, you can use some cherry tomatoes, preferably without seeds, or a touch of tomato paste.
A splash of vodka to take you back to the '80s and chives instead of parsley.

