name:
Eggs with Tomato Sauce
ingredients:
Eggs: 4- (medium)
Plum tomatoes: 2 ¼cups(400 g)
Yellow onions: ½
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Eggs with tomato sauce are a quick and tasty main course. You only need a few ingredients to make them, making them a perfect last-minute dinner solution. The eggs will have two different textures: soft yolks and firm, well-cooked whites that blend with the fresh cherry tomato sauce. A sprinkle of freshly chopped parsley adds the aromatic note that completes the dish. This recipe is prepared in just a few minutes and is ideal when you're short on time but don't want to compromise on flavor. Eggs with tomato sauce pair perfectly with crispy bread, as dipping is a must!
If you're looking for more egg recipes, also try:
To prepare eggs with tomato sauce, first cut the cherry tomatoes into 1/2 inch cubes . In a non-stick pan, pour some olive oil, add the finely chopped onion , and sauté for 5 minutes until the onions are soft and translucent. Add the tomatoes .
Season with salt and cook, stirring often, for about 5 minutes. Use a ladle to create small spaces , there's no need to make a real hole, just move the cherry tomatoes a bit. Pour the eggs into the spaces .
Lightly salt the egg whites , and add a sprinkle of pepper . Cover with a lid and cook for 5 minutes.
This way, you'll have well-cooked whites and soft yolks . If you prefer your eggs more cooked, you can extend the cooking time. Finish with some freshly chopped parsley . The eggs with tomato sauce are ready to be enjoyed .
Eggs with tomato sauce can be stored in the fridge, in a closed container, for up to 1 day. Before enjoying them again, gently reheat them in a pan over low heat, adding a splash of water.
If the tomatoes are not ripe enough, you can add a tablespoon of tomato paste to give them more color. If they are out of season, use tomato sauce or canned tomatoes to make excellent eggs in purgatory. You can enrich the recipe with black olives, capers, and oregano. If you love spicy food, add a fresh chili pepper to fry with the onion.

