name:
Zucchini Flower Parmigiana
ingredients:
Zucchini flowers: 50
Rice flour: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sparkling water: 3 ½cups(800 g)- cold
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Pizza mozzarella cheese: 5.3cups(600 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste
White onions: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Canned tomatoes: 3.1cups(750 g)
Tomato purée: 3cups(700 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the zucchini flower parmigiana, start with the sauce: clean and slice the onion . In a saucepan, heat a drizzle of oil, add the onion , and sauté over low heat. Once the onion has softened, pour in the tomato purée .
Add the pulp as well , salt, pepper, cover with the lid , and cook until the sauce has thickened, it will take about 40 minutes. Meanwhile, clean the zucchini flowers , removing the stem and pistil.
Prepare the batter: in a bowl, pour the two flours , slowly add the sparkling water while mixing with a whisk until you obtain a smooth, lump-free mixture. Heat the seed oil in a saucepan, once it reaches the frying temperature of 340°F, first dip the flowers in the batter .
Then into the oil , fry them until golden brown , then drain them on a tray lined with absorbent paper, salt, and pepper .
Cut the mozzarella into sticks, then into cubes . Meanwhile, the sauce will be ready . Take an 8x7 inch baking dish and spread some of the sauce on the bottom .
Lay 1/3 of the well-compacted fried zucchini flowers . Cover with tomato sauce , mozzarella, a sprinkle of Parmigiano Reggiano , and a few torn basil leaves.
Continue with a second layer . Proceed in this way until all the ingredients are used up . Bake the zucchini flower parmigiana in a preheated oven at 340°F for 30 minutes or until gratinated .
Store the zucchini flower parmigiana in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for 1-2 days. It can be frozen after cooking, perhaps already divided into portions, and thawed in the refrigerator as needed before reheating.
Instead of mozzarella, you can use provola cheese cut into thin slices.

