name:
Fried Artichokes in Batter
ingredients:
Artichokes: 4
Water: to taste
Lemons: 1
Vegetable oil: to taste- (for frying)
Red beer: 11.2oz(330 g)- cold
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 1tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp
Ketchup: (80 g)
Tabasco®: to taste
Chives: 5fili

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If artichokes are your passion, then you cannot miss this appetizing recipe: fried artichokes in batter! A delicious appetizer that can also become a fried side dish to enjoy occasionally. The artichoke hearts are dipped in an enveloping batter made with flour and red beer... the result will be an incredibly crispy and tasty finger food, perfect for dipping in the ketchup and Ketchup Sauce that you will prepare in the meantime. Make fried artichokes in batter with us for a gathering with friends or a Sunday lunch: we bet there won't be a single one left!
Don't miss these other fried artichoke recipes:

To make fried artichokes in batter, the first step is to clean the artichokes : remove the stem and the tougher outer leaves , then cut off the tips .
Trim the base with a small knife , then cut the artichoke in half and scrape away the central choke .
Finally, cut the artichokes further into quarters and immerse them in a bowl with water and lemon to prevent them from browning . Set the artichokes aside and move on to the sauce.
Pour the ketchup into a small bowl, add a few drops of tabasco and the chopped chives , then mix everything together .
Now prepare the batter: in a large bowl, place the egg yolk , the instant yeast , and the flour .
Pour in the red beer while stirring with a hand whisk to achieve a smooth batter without lumps. Finally, add the salt and mix again .
At this point, drain the artichokes from the acidulated water and dry them well with a clean kitchen towel , then gently spread the leaves .
Heat the seed oil in a saucepan to a temperature of 320°F. Coat the artichokes with the batter, letting the excess drip off, then immerse a few wedges at a time into the hot oil and fry for about 5 minutes .
When they are beautifully golden, drain them and transfer them to paper towels . Serve your fried artichokes in batter immediately, accompanied by the sauce !
It is recommended to consume the fried artichokes in batter immediately.
You can prepare the batter and the sauce a few hours in advance and store them in the refrigerator.
If desired, you can flavor the batter with a pinch of smoked paprika!

