name:
Yogurt Plumcake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 10.6oz(300 g)- (about 5)
Butter: 0.9lb(200 g)
Powdered sugar: 1.6cups(200 g)
Greek yogurt: 0.6cup(150 g)
Potato starch: 6tbsp(50 g)
Baking powder: 1tbsp(15 g)
Vanilla bean: 1- seeds
Fine salt: ¾tsp(4 g)
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note FROM THE EDITORIAL STAFF: We recommend using a powerful mixer. Before taking it out of the oven, do the toothpick test, and if it is not well cooked, continue by covering the surface with aluminum foil or parchment paper.

instructions:
Simple things are always the best. Having breakfast with this yogurt plumcake together with your whole family will be one of your favorite moments. Thanks to master Iginio Massari, making the classic homemade plumcake will be really simple, just follow a few small tips: blend all the ingredients in the mixer and cook the velvety batter you get to create an ultra-soft and fragrant cake. Just as tradition dictates, every classic plumcake must be baked in a mold that is twice as long as it is wide to achieve the right balance even in shape. Make the yogurt plumcake recipe yourself, it will be perfect for any occasion!
Discover these delicious variations too:
To prepare the yogurt plumcake, first make sure all the ingredients are at a temperature of 75°F. At this point, equip yourself with a sufficiently powerful and capacious mixer fitted with blades. Place the vanilla pod seeds , cubed butter, flour , and eggs into the container.
Then add the Greek yogurt, powdered sugar , salt, baking powder , and potato starch .
Mix everything at maximum speed for about 3 and a half minutes. In the meantime, butter and flour two slightly flared molds of 6.3x3.15 inches. Once you have obtained a homogeneous mixture , transfer it into the molds . As a final touch, dip a spatula, or knife blade, first in the melted butter
and then into the center of the first plumcake . Repeat the same operation for the second . This will allow for uniform growth during baking. Now attend to baking the plumcakes, which should be baked in a preheated static oven in 2 phases: first at 365°F for 15 minutes, then at 330°F for 30 minutes. Once they are baked, remove them from the oven and let them cool completely .
At this point, remove them from the molds and decorate with powdered sugar using a strip of cardboard to place over the central crack . The yogurt plumcakes are ready to be enjoyed .
The yogurt plumcake can be stored for a week at room temperature covered with a glass dome.
Alternatively, it can be frozen for a month.
The principle chosen for making this plumcake is homogenization: through proper ingredient temperatures and maximum machine speed, you will achieve an excellent result! The secret for perfect baking? Use a probe to measure the internal temperature of the plumcake: it should be between 203°F and 207°F.
If you wish, you can enrich the batter Chocolate chip loaf cake .
• Can the butter be omitted and only seed oil used?
In this case, we recommend following the recipe for yogurt plumcake without butter .
• Can seed oil be replaced with olive oil?
Yes, but olive oil will give the cake a stronger flavor.
• What can be done if the available mixer has a capacity of less than 43 oz, so it is too small?
Divide the batter in half and work it in the mixer in two rounds!


