name:
Naples-style Braised Artichokes
ingredients:
Artichokes: 6- (about 600 g to clean)
Black olives: 3.5oz(100 g)- from Gaeta
Salted capers: 3tsp(15 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Escarole , Octopus in Tomato Sauce , broccoli , and even chocolate are all ingredients that can be cooked "braised." But perhaps you've missed another recipe that uses the same cooking method. We're talking about Naples-style braised artichokes. This delicious side dish originates from the capital of Campania: the artichokes are quickly cooked in a pan with water and other ingredients that give it aroma and flavor. Additionally, you should know that this ancient peasant recipe was consumed not only as a side dish but also as a main course. Naples-style braised artichokes will whet your appetite with their simplicity and tradition... but also with their flavor!
Also discover the Jewish-style artichoke , a super tasty Roman dish
To prepare Naples-style braised artichokes, desalinate the capers by rinsing them thoroughly under running water. Then move on to the olives, you'll need to remove the central pit by peeling them with a small knife or an olive pitter . Move on to the cleaning of the artichokes . After removing the stem and the outer leaves until you reach the more tender ones , peel the base
cut off part of the leaves . Cut in half, remove the fuzzy choke with a paring knife , and then divide into 8 wedges by halving and halving again. As you go, immerse the pieces in lemon water to prevent them from browning .
Move to the stove. In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, the chili pepper sliced thinly, and a peeled garlic clove , then add the pitted olives and desalinated capers . Let it heat for a minute and then add the drained artichokes .
Sauté for another minute, adjust the salt, then add the water and cover with a lid, letting it cook on low heat for 15-20 minutes. Test with a fork: if the tines easily pierce the center, they are ready . Once cooked, sprinkle with some chopped parsley before serving .
Naples-style braised artichokes can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days, although the texture and color may change.
Freezing is not recommended.
There are many versions of Naples-style braised artichokes, each one closely guarded by every family. Some add a zest of lemon peel, and some even a small anchovy.

