name:
Bistecca alla fiorentina
ingredients:
Florentine steak: 4.4lbs(2 kg)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
The Florentine steak, along with tripe , is one of the most appreciated Tuscan main courses. Let's discover how to prepare it grilled with a master of meat, the famous butcher Dario Cecchini. The elements for a perfect Florentine are two: the meat, usually Chianina (the cattle breed from the area between Arezzo and Siena), has a special "T" shape with the bone in the middle, the tenderloin on one side, and the sirloin on the other, with an aging of at least 20 days. The Florentine steak must also be three fingers high and the width should be proportionate. The other fundamental aspect is the cooking: to achieve a succulent Florentine steak, it is necessary to prepare a good grill, preferably with oak and holm oak charcoal, the most suitable because they maintain a high and constant temperature. Externally it must be well cooked, but tradition wants the inside to be rare, to fully enjoy its tenderness. Once cooked, it is served with the bone upright, traditionally the piece dedicated to the butchers, which for many is precisely the best part! If you are a meat lover, here are other ideas to serve it:
To prepare the Florentine steak, first take the meat . It should be three fingers thick, include tenderloin and sirloin, and have the right amount of fat. Leave it at room temperature for a few hours, it's important that at the time of cooking it isn't cold. Prepare the grill: use oak and holm oak charcoal and let it reach its peak temperature until a light white film forms, indicating it has reached its maximum temperature. Place the grill on top and let it heat well. Then place the steak vertically, beside the grill, so that the bone rests on the grill , this way the meat will start to warm up gently.
Then place it in the center of the grill and cook it for 8 minutes per side. When you turn it, the grill marks should be clearly visible . Once the cooking is finished on the other side, place the meat again vertically, next to the grill always on the bone side. This way, while resting, the juices stabilize, and the meat will be more tender. Be careful not to burn the bone too much.
Transfer the meat to a cutting board and let it rest for a few more minutes. Cut the steak, separating the tenderloin from the sirloin , leaving it upright.
Season with salt , add a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil , and massage it with your hands. Now you can serve it nice and hot .
We recommend consuming the Florentine steak as soon as it is ready.
Aging is a meat maturation process inside a refrigerated cell with controlled temperature and humidity. We recommend a period of 20-30 days without exceeding.

