name:
Apple Heart Cake
ingredients:
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Lemon peel: 1tbsp(5 g)
Fine salt: ½tsp(2 g)
Eggs: 1.8oz(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Ambrosia apple: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Butter: 10 ½tbsp(150 g)- soft
Sugar: ½cup(105 g)
Eggs: 3.7oz(105 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Wheat starch: ½cup(60 g)
Baking powder: 5tsp(22 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + 1 hour of rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
The apple heart cake is a delicious dessert with simple flavors inspired by two classics of home cooking. It's halfway between the classic apple cake , with its soft and aromatic filling, and the apple tart , with the characteristic crumbly shortcrust pastry shell. This delight is a perfect mix of textures. You will be surprised by its cheeky savory touch, which harmonizes the flavors making this cake unique and special!
To prepare the apple heart cake, pour the cubed butter, sugar , salt , and lemon zest into a bowl.
Knead to form a dough ball , then add the egg and mix again to incorporate it .
Now add the flour and baking powder , mix to form a homogeneous dough .
Form a dough ball , wrap it with plastic wrap , and leave it in the refrigerator for an hour. Now cut the apples in half , then peel them and remove the core.
Cut them into cubes . In a separate bowl, mix the flour and cornstarch .
Mix the powders and apples . In another bowl, pour the butter, sugar , and salt .
The eggs, vanilla bean pulp , and beat with an electric mixer to obtain a homogeneous mixture .
Combine this mixture with the apple mixture , mix and set aside . Take the shortcrust pastry and roll it out to a thickness of about 1/8 inch .
Roll the pastry sheet onto the rolling pin and unroll it over a 9 1/2-inch diameter mold. Remove the excess dough by trimming the edges with a knife . Pour the filling inside and level it with the back of a spoon . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 35-40 minutes.
Once ready, remove the apple heart cake from the oven , let it cool, then sprinkle with powdered sugar as desired and enjoy it !
The apple heart cake keeps in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. You can freeze it after baking.
The dessert has a pronounced savory note; if you don't like it, you can reduce the amount of salt in the recipe.

