name:
Black Kale Gnudi
ingredients:
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 1.5lbs(700 g)- (to clean)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(280 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to be grated)
Type 00 flour: 0.375cup(45 g)
Eggs: 1
Nutmeg: to taste
Water: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Mixed mushrooms: 4cups(500 g)- cardoncelli, pioppini
Garlic: 1clove
Butter: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Marjoram: to taste
Sage: to taste
Parsley: to taste- (to chop)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)- (to grate)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The black kale is an ingredient that is often found in first courses of Tuscan cuisine, for example in the famous ribollita . In this recipe, we use it to create a variation of another typical specialty: black kale gnudi! The gnudi are ricotta and spinach dumplings usually served with butter and sage. Instead, we opted for a mushroom sauce with the addition of a creamy Parmesan fondue... a delicious idea that will make the black kale gnudi even more irresistible. Perfect for the winter season, they will make you appreciate the typical flavors of tradition with an extra touch of creativity!
Don't miss these regional variations as well: the strangolapreti from Trentino and the Brescian malfatti!
To prepare the black kale gnudi, first clean the black kale: separate the leaves from the stems , then place the leaves in a large pot with a little water .
Cover with the lid and cook on low heat for about 15 minutes. After this time , transfer the black kale to a colander and let cool .
In the meantime, prepare the mushrooms: clean and roughly chop the king oyster mushrooms and poplar mushrooms . In a pan, melt the butter in the oil .
Flavor with the aromatic herbs and the clove of garlic in its skin , then add the poplar mushrooms .
Add the king oyster mushrooms , salt, and season with chopped parsley , then cook over medium-low heat for 4-5 minutes, stirring often ; the mushrooms should still be slightly crunchy. Once cooked, remove the garlic and set aside.
Move on to the fondue: pour the fresh cream and grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP into a saucepan, mix with a whisk and let thicken over medium-low heat for a few minutes until reaching the desired consistency . To achieve a sauce like ours, we recommend reaching 140-150°F. Set aside.
Take the black kale and squeeze it well with your hands to remove excess liquid , then finely chop it with a knife . Transfer the chopped black kale into a large bowl and add the ricotta .
Add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP , the egg , and the flour .
Season with salt , pepper, and nutmeg , then mix the mixture by mashing it with a fork .
Scoop the mixture with a spoon and, with the help of another spoon, form quenelles and place them on a tray . Meanwhile, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and melt the butter with sage in a large pan over low heat .
Immerse the gnudi in the gently boiling water, handling them carefully as they are very soft and delicate . After blanching them, gently drain the gnudi and transfer them to the pan with the seasoning . Let them flavor over low heat for a few minutes, basting them with the flavored butter .
Place the gnudi on a plate, then dress with the mushrooms and the fondue . Your black kale gnudi are ready to be served !
The black kale gnudi should preferably be consumed immediately. If necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator for a day, in an airtight container.
You can prepare the gnudi in advance and store them raw in the refrigerator covered for a maximum of 12 hours. Alternatively, you can freeze them for about 1 month and boil them while still frozen.
Do not throw away the black kale stems: they can be used to make a good vegetable broth, for example!
If the ricotta you use is watery, it is preferable to let it drain in a sieve before adding it to the mixture.
The dough for black kale gnudi is very soft, so it is important to handle them gently and cook them on low heat to prevent them from falling apart.

