name:
Ricotta Lasagna
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 9oz(250 g)
White pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 3cups(750 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Water: 0.3cup(75 g)- hot
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Milk: 3 ⅛cups(750 g)- fresh whole
Type 00 flour: ½cup(60 g)
Butter: 5tbsp(75 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)- to grate
Pecorino cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- grated

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 22 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Lasagna is a classic and beloved first course of Italian cuisine because it satisfies everyone. They are very versatile in combinations with sauces and ragù that accompany the pasta sheets; versions have been created for every occasion: from the classic green Bolognese for Sunday lunch, those in white , fish lasagna for refined dinners to Lasagna with lamb ragout for Easter. Today we offer you a vegetarian version with a delicate flavor ideal for any occasion: ricotta lasagna. The fundamental ingredient of these lasagna is indeed ricotta, which must be fresh and creamy. Its delicate taste pairs perfectly with the béchamel, here enriched with a mix of cheeses. Layer after layer, in an exquisite alternation of pasta sheets with ricotta and béchamel, these delicious lasagna will win you over! Serve them to your family for a rich Sunday lunch and also experiment with other white variations like the lasagna with sausage and spinach .
To prepare ricotta lasagna, start by making the béchamel . Take a high-sided pan, melt the butter over medium heat, and add the flour . Stir with a hand whisk until you get a golden roux. Then add the slightly warmed milk . Adjust with salt and pepper and grate some nutmeg . Continue cooking on low heat for another 5-6 minutes to thicken, stirring with the hand whisk to prevent the mixture from sticking to the bottom of the pan.
Now add the grated Grana Padano DOP and Pecorino . Stir with a whisk to create a smooth, lump-free mixture. Transfer the béchamel with cheese into a large bowl and cover it with cling film to prevent a crust from forming on the surface . Set aside.
Proceed with preparing the ricotta cream. Pour the ricotta into a bowl and drizzle with a little olive oil and mix with warm water to make it creamy. Using a hand whisk, combine the ingredients and adjust with salt and pepper.
Combine the mixture with the previously prepared béchamel and mix well with the hand whisk to obtain a uniform and sufficiently compact mixture, neither too liquid nor too thick .
Start composing the lasagna: take a baking dish measuring 12x8 inches. Drizzle a little olive oil and pour some tablespoons of ricotta and béchamel cream to cover the bottom . Lay the pasta sheets to cover the entire surface of the dish .
Then create another layer with the ricotta and béchamel cream . Place some thyme leaves over the entire surface of the dish, well spaced apart , and sprinkle some ground pepper .
Grate some nutmeg . Create another layer of lasagna by arranging them in the opposite direction to the first layer so that they are crossed . Repeat the operation by alternating the ingredients until you obtain 6 layers of lasagna, ending with a final layer of ricotta and béchamel cream .
Sprinkle with plenty of grated Grana Padano DOP , further flavor with thyme leaves and ground pepper , and nutmeg. Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 20 minutes (if using a convection oven, 356°F for 10 minutes). Finish cooking in grill mode for the last 2 minutes to create a light crust on the surface. Remove your ricotta lasagna from the oven and let them cool for 5-6 minutes before serving to allow them to set and... enjoy!
Ricotta lasagna can be prepared the day before and stored in the fridge covered with cling film.
They can be stored in the fridge, once cooked, for up to 2 days covered with cling film or in an airtight container.
It is also possible to freeze them. To do this, proceed as follows: freeze the cooked lasagna in an airtight container or aluminum tray for up to 30 days. To defrost the ricotta lasagna, take them out of the freezer and place them in the fridge the night before use, or use the defrost function in the microwave. It is advisable to heat the lasagna in a preheated oven for about ten minutes to revive them.
If you notice that the ricotta and béchamel cream is too dry and therefore difficult to spread in the dish, add a little water. If you love bold flavors, try using sheep's milk ricotta instead of buffalo ricotta.

