name:
Apple cake without sugar
ingredients:
Apples: 3
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Almond flour: 0.8cup(80 g)
Wildflower honey: ½cup(150 g)
Natural plain yogurt: ½cup(125 g)
Eggs: 3
Vegetable oil: 3.7tbsp(50 g)
Baking powder: 3 ¾tsp(16 g)
Vanilla extract: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The apple cake without sugar is a fragrant and aromatic dessert that will win you over at the first bite. In this revised version of the classic apple cake , honey takes the place of sugar, giving the dough a natural and delicate taste. The apples are the undisputed protagonists of the dessert, making it delicious and releasing an irresistible aroma. Preparing the apple cake without sugar is really easy; in less than an hour, you can bake a delicious recipe, perfect for any occasion!
If you love apple cakes, you absolutely must try these "alternative" recipes too:

To prepare the apple cake without sugar, first break the eggs into a bowl , add the millefiori honey , and mix with a hand whisk .
Pour in the vegetable oil and plain yogurt , then mix again to combine the ingredients .
Add the vanilla extract , then sift the flour and baking powder and mix to incorporate the powders uniformly .
At this point, add the almond flour and mix again to obtain a smooth, lump-free mixture . Peel 2 apples, remove the core, and dice them into small pieces .
Add the apples to the batter and mix one last time . Pour the batter into a 9-inch springform pan, previously greased and floured . Slice the remaining apple, leaving the peel on if you prefer .
Arrange the apple slices in a radial pattern on the surface and bake in a static oven at 350°F for 40-45 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool . The apple cake without sugar is ready; before serving, dust with powdered sugar !
Store the apple cake without sugar at room temperature, preferably under a glass dome, for 2-3 days maximum.
It is possible to freeze the cake once baked.
To make the apple cake without sugar more aromatic, you can add the grated zest of a citrus fruit to the batter or replace plain yogurt with lemon-flavored yogurt.
If you find the cake not sweet enough for your taste, you can increase the amount of honey up to 6 oz.

