name:
Shortcrust Sfogliatelle
ingredients:
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- (cold but pliable)
Sugar: 0.67cup(125 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Lemon peel: ½- green
Orange peel: ½
Eggs: 1.8oz(50 g)
Baker's ammonia: ½tsp(2 g)
Honey: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Water: 1cup(250 g)
Semolina: ⅓cup(75 g)
Ricotta di bufala cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(125 g)
Eggs: 0.3cup(60 g)
Candied orange: 1.75oz(50 g)
Cinnamon powder: ¼tsp(1 g)
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus one night and 4 hours

instructions:
The desserts of the Campania tradition are always the most indulgent. Walking through the streets of Naples between a rum baba and a slice of Pastiera , or migliaccio , it's a must to leave some space to enjoy the typical shortcrust sfogliatelle in one of the historic pastry shops, strictly accompanied by a steaming cup of coffee! Just as the name suggests, these pastries are made with one of the basic recipes of pastry making: shortcrust pastry. A fragrant and very aromatic shell thanks to the citrus fruits from the region that are added directly to the dough is ready to hold a soft and enveloping filling made of ricotta and semolina. As soon as the shortcrust sfogliatelle are baked, their aroma will fill your home, and no one will be able to resist such sweetness!
For a sudden craving for sfogliatelle, also try the easy ones !
To prepare the shortcrust sfogliatelle, start by making the shortcrust pastry. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, add the cold but pliable butter and granulated sugar . Mix at moderate speed and as soon as they are well combined and you have obtained a sort of cream, add the honey .
Then add the zest of half an orange , that of half a lemon , and the seeds of half a vanilla pod . If the stand mixer doesn't gather everything, you can help with a spatula to combine the ingredients better.
Break the egg into a small bowl and beat it lightly. Add it to the mixer a little at a time , until it is completely absorbed . Again, you can help with a spatula to combine the ingredients. As soon as the mass is combined, add the ammonia and continue to mix.
At this point, sift the flour and add it to the mixer . As soon as the flour is completely absorbed, turn off the machine .
Transfer the dough to a small tray and flatten it with a spatula . Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 4 hours.
Meanwhile, prepare the filling. Pour the water into a saucepan and lightly salt it . As soon as it starts boiling, add the semolina in a steady stream, stirring continuously with a whisk , to avoid lumps. Let it cook for 3-4 minutes using a wooden spoon and stirring continuously .
As soon as the semolina is dry , pour it into a baking dish, press it lightly, and cover with cling film in contact with the surface . Let it cool completely, then transfer it to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle; also add the candied fruits and turn on the machine to soften the semolina.
Then add the ricotta in two parts and when it is well combined with the semolina, also add the sugar . Then add all the aromas: cinnamon, the grated zest of half an orange, lemon zest, and the seeds from half a vanilla pod .
Mix again and finally add the egg . As soon as the filling is ready and the egg is completely absorbed, transfer it to a piping bag ; it won't be necessary to use a nozzle.
Take the dough and transfer it to a lightly floured work surface . Shape it into a log and, using your hands, break off pieces of dough about 1.75 oz (50 grams) each .
You will get 11 ; to give more uniformity to your shortcrust sfogliatelle, roll the portions of dough between the palms of your hands into a spherical shape . Using a rolling pin
shape each piece of shortcrust pastry into an oval and generously fill the center with the filling of each rolled-out piece of dough . Then fold like a bundle, folding the dough from one end of the oval to the other to enclose the filling;
seal the edges by pressing lightly with your fingers . Then, using a 3.5 inch (9 cm) round cutter, trim the excess dough around the filled pastry to create your shortcrust sfogliatelle . Re-knead the scraps of dough and use them to create 4 more sfogliatelle, proceeding in the same way.
Arrange the pastries on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and press lightly with your index finger to create an indentation at the base of the bundles and achieve the classic shell shape . Let them rest overnight in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap .
After resting overnight, brush the sfogliatelle with lightly beaten egg . Then bake in a preheated static oven at 437°F (225°C) for 18-20 minutes until they are golden brown. At this point, remove from the oven , let cool slightly, and enjoy your shortcrust sfogliatelle .
Shortcrust sfogliatelle can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day.
Additionally, they can be frozen raw if all fresh ingredients were used. Just bake them directly from frozen, slightly increasing the cooking time.
Add a bit of custard to the ricotta and semolina filling for an even more melting result!
The resting time for the shortcrust pastry and the ready sfogliatelle is important for achieving a good result.

