name:
Roman Pizza
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 8.8cups(1 kg)
Water: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1.4tsp(7 g)
Fine salt: 3 ½tsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Tomato purée: 2.9cups(700 g)
Pizza mozzarella cheese: 5 ½cups(600 g)
Oregano: 10tsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Anchovies in oil: 16fillets

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + preparation and rising time for the dough

instructions:
Roman pizza is one of the many variants of pizza . This is one of the simplest and tastiest Neapolitan preparations, requiring very few ingredients: mozzarella, tomato, oregano, anchovies, and extra virgin olive oil laid on a thin layer of pizza dough . What is called Roman pizza in Naples and its surroundings may be called pizza “Napoli” or Neapolitan pizza in other parts of Italy, which actually contains the same ingredients but without the mozzarella, and sometimes with the addition of capers. If you prefer, you can make the dough using sourdough, or with long leavening , or for the pan pizza and use these ingredients as toppings!
Discover also how to prepare other variations, such as pinsa and capricciosa pizza !
To prepare Roman pizza, start with the pizza dough. Pour the flour into the bowl of the stand mixer . Add the yeast and 100 grams of water, then start the stand mixer with the dough hook attached at medium-low speed .
Continue adding the water little by little, making sure to wait until the previous amount is well absorbed by the flour . Once about 3/4 of the water has been added, add the salt and continue kneading. Add the rest of the water slowly and let the mixer work until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough .
At this point, gradually add the oil (as you did with the water) . When the oil is completely absorbed, remove the dough from the mixer and shape it with your hands into a ball . Place it in a large, slightly oiled bowl .
Cover with plastic wrap or a clean cloth and let it rise in the oven with the light on . Wait until the dough has at least doubled in volume (1.5 h), preferably tripled (2.5/3 h) . Once the dough has risen, transfer it to the work surface and divide it into 4 equal parts .
Shape each piece into a ball . Cover them with a clean cloth and let them rest for 30 minutes . Lightly oil with a drizzle of oil 4 pizza pans with a diameter of 12 inches. Place a ball of dough in the center of the pan .
and start pressing from the center outwards, pulling the edges slightly if necessary . If the dough is too elastic and tends to return to its previous shape, set the pizza you're stretching aside and continue with another, letting the previous one rest. Try to stretch the dough over the entire surface of the pan . Pour a generous ladle of tomato sauce, previously seasoned with salt and oregano, onto the base of the pan and spread it in a circular motion, covering almost the entire area, leaving only a border of about 0.5 inches .
Roughly chop the mozzarella. Now, top the pizza with anchovy fillets, a drizzle of oil, and the chopped mozzarella . Let the topped pizza rest for about ten minutes , then bake at 480°F for 12/15 minutes in a static oven (otherwise, if using a convection oven, about ten minutes at 450°F will suffice). As soon as you take the Roman pizza out of the oven, serve it immediately .
Roman-style pizza can be half-cooked and then frozen. To use it, let it thaw at room temperature and finish cooking in the oven before serving!
If you notice that the mozzarella is very wet, remember to squeeze it well and let it drain on a sieve before placing it on the pizza.

