name:
Mondeghili (Milanese meatballs)
ingredients:
Beef steak: 0.7lb(300 g)
Liver mortadella: 2.8oz(80 g)- (or Bologna)
Stale bread: 2 ¼cups(130 g)- of breadcrumbs
Carrots: 1
White onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.75oz(20 g)
Eggs: 1
Whole milk: 0.3cup(80 g)
Lemon peel: 1- untreated
Parsley: 1tbsp(5 g)- chopped
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Ground black pepper: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 8spoonfuls
Butter: 1.1cups(250 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Makes: 18 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Mondeghili are a humble dish from the peasant tradition, typical of Milanese cuisine. At first glance, someone might think they are meatballs, but don't dare call them that! The origin of mondeghili comes from far away: the name, which means meatball, is derived from the Arabic word "al-bunduck," but it was the Spanish who taught the Milanese how to prepare mondeghili during their 150 years of domination in Milan. The Milanese transformed the Spanish word "albondiga" into "albondeguito," which then became "albondeghito," eventually leading to the current term mondeghilo. We drew inspiration from this traditional recipe by creating a mixture with various types of meat, all flavored with a pleasant citrus aroma and nutmeg. Try our version of mondeghili, and you'll fall in love with this dish!
Don't miss out on these timeless Milanese recipes:

To prepare the mondeghili (Milanese meatballs), set a pot of salted water on the stove, add the celery and carrots, cut into coarse pieces, and the onion with cloves, then bring to a boil . Cook the brisket over medium heat until the meat has softened: it will take at least an hour; occasionally skim off any impurities that form on the surface with a skimmer. Once the necessary time has passed , turn off the heat and let it cool completely; crumble the meat and transfer it to a bowl.
In a separate container, soften the bread crumb with milk , then add it to the boiled meat . Remove the casing from the liver mortadella and cut it into slices .
Finely chop the mortadella and add it to the bowl , then pass everything through the meat grinder .
Add the grated lemon zest and the whole egg .
Season with nutmeg and grated cheese . Mix vigorously with your hands to combine all the ingredients well .
Finally, add the finely chopped parsley , adjust the salt and pepper , and mix again.
At this point, take 1.25 oz (35 g) of the mixture and form elongated meatballs that you will press lightly: with our quantities, you should get 18 mondeghili . Roll the mondeghili in breadcrumbs, turning them on both sides so that the coating adheres evenly .
Set a non-stick pan on the stove and melt the butter . Place a few mondeghili at a time and cook them for 1-2 minutes , turning them with a fork or kitchen tongs for even cooking .
Once ready , drain them with a skimmer and place them on a tray (or baking sheet) lined with kitchen paper to remove excess butter . Serve the mondeghili (Milanese meatballs) still hot !
You can store the mondeghili in the refrigerator for up to 2-3 days, in an airtight container.
They can be frozen.
In modern times, clarified butter or tomato sauce is used for cooking mondeghili. If you choose to fry them in butter, we recommend changing it often, so it doesn't risk burning.

