name:
Pasta with Cabbage and Sausage
ingredients:
Organic Penne Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Verza (savoy cabbage): 5.6oz(160 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Sausage: 0.9lb(400 g)
Canned cherry tomatoes: 1cup(240 g)
Goat: 2.8oz(80 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
White wine: ¼cup(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Queen of winter, cabbage is the star of many recipes. From the Lombard casoeûla to the Tuscan ribollita , these cap-shaped heads have an intense flavor and their leaves give these dishes a truly distinct taste. Today we used it to create a main course that the whole family will enjoy: pasta with cabbage and sausage. A recipe that plays on contrasts of meat, vegetables, and cheese... in fact, for the final decoration, goat cheese is used, which will release a slightly tangy flavor and a unique and different note from the usual!
If you have some leftover cabbage leaves, also try:
To prepare pasta with cabbage and sausage, first finely chop the chili pepper . Then remove the casing from the sausage and use the back of the knife to crush the meat against the cutting board, breaking it apart .
Next, move on to the cabbage, remove the outer leaves . If it's very large, cut it in half and score the white part of the inner stem . Then cut it into thin strips and set aside.
In a saucepan, pour a drizzle of oil, add garlic and chili pepper ; then light the flame and let it infuse for a few minutes. Add the sausage and, stirring often, let it brown over high heat. Then remove the garlic cloves
add the cabbage , lower the heat and deglaze with white wine . Let it evaporate and add the cherry tomatoes .
Then salt, pepper and stir. Cook everything for another 10 minutes (in total, it will take about 25 minutes) and in the meantime, cook the pasta in plenty of boiling salted water to taste and drain it very al dente, transferring it directly into the saucepan with the cabbage .
Sauté everything for a couple of minutes and plate. Decorate the surface of each dish with dollops of goat cheese and serve your pasta with cabbage and sausage still hot !
It is recommended to consume the pasta with cabbage and sausage immediately.
The sauce can be stored for one day in the refrigerator.
Add black olives and herbs like thyme and oregano if you prefer. Do not throw away the outer leaves of the cabbage, but use them to prepare a soup.

