name:
Muffins with a Heart
ingredients:
Butter: 0.8cup(180 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Eggs: 2- at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Baking powder: 4tsp(16 g)
Baking soda: 1tsp
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)- at room temperature
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Dark chocolate: 4.25oz(120 g)
Dark chocolate: 2.1oz(60 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + resting time in the freezer of about 3 hours (for the ganache filling)

instructions:
Soft and filled, with just one bite you uncover the creamy and indulgent interior: they are muffins with a heart. These single-serving sweets are made with the batter of American muffins , perfect for a snack, breakfast, but especially for special occasions like Valentine's Day! Who can resist a melting heart of dark chocolate? You'll win everyone over with the goodness of muffins with a heart, and you'll be won over by how easy they are to make. If you want to up the difficulty, you can make the heart with a dark chocolate truffle made by you, as we explain step by step! In any case, muffins with a heart will be a success, make a good stock, also in other variants like chocolate , apple for fruit dessert lovers, wonderfully fragrant Soft lemon muffins , and Grandma's Muffins that recall the classic Grandma's cake , or super soft like Paradise muffins . All you have to do is choose your favorite recipe... or love them all!
To prepare muffins with a heart, start by melting the butter in a bain-marie or in the microwave and let it cool slightly . In a pitcher (or a bowl), pour the milk, slightly beaten eggs , and now cooled butter ;
stir with a fork (or a whisk) and set aside . In a large bowl, sift the flour, baking soda, and baking powder through a sieve , then add the sugar and a pinch of salt.
Now, slit the vanilla bean along its length and extract the internal seeds which you will add to the mixture . Insert the electric whisks into the bowl with the dry ingredients and turn them on at a very low speed while you also pour the liquid mixture little by little : this way you'll blend everything without forming lumps.
In the end, you will get a smooth and homogeneous mixture . Insert paper liners into a classic 12-muffin mold. Pour the mixture into a piping bag without a nozzle and squeeze enough to fill half the liner . Now, for the version with dark chocolate: place a piece of chocolate about 0.35 oz at the center . Do not push the chocolate piece downward, or it will remain at the bottom.
Squeeze additional batter to cover the chocolate . Bake the muffins with a heart in a preheated static oven at 375°F for 25 minutes. Once baking is complete, your muffins with a heart will be slightly golden on the surface , let them cool slightly before serving.
As an alternative to the chocolate bar, you can make a dark chocolate ganache heart to fill your muffins: while the muffins are baking, gently heat the liquid cream, just enough to warm it. Then finely chop the dark chocolate and place it in another small pan in a bain-marie , to melt it completely by stirring to aid the melting
then pour the warm liquid cream . Stir with a spoon to combine the mixture, which should be very fluid . Pour the obtained ganache into a silicone mold for chocolates .
Once all the molds are filled , place in the freezer to set for at least 3 hours. After this time, the ganache will have solidified , and you can insert it into the batter . Continue to prepare the muffins with a heart as per the recipe, baking in a preheated static oven at 375°F for about 25 minutes.
Muffins with a heart can be stored under a glass dome for a couple of days. They can be frozen after baking, then you can let them defrost in the fridge and keep them at room temperature before serving.
You could make chocolate muffins and make a White chocolate ganache for a super delicious and appealing color contrast!

