name:
Turkey Rolls in Sauce
ingredients:
Turkey breast: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- one whole piece
Broccoli rabe: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fontina cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Canned tomatoes: 1.67cups(400 g)
Rosemary: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Looking for a simple and quick lunch idea? Try our turkey rolls in sauce recipe! Just fill and roll the slices as you would for chicken rolls and you're all set! For the filling, we chose to combine broccoli rabe, the classic ally of orecchiette , with fontina cheese. This cheese, with its very intense flavor, perfectly complements the taste of the vegetable. Additionally, the presence of tomato tends to sweeten the flavor of this slightly bitter green, making the turkey rolls in sauce a perfect second course for the whole family! And if you have someone at home who doesn't like vegetables, especially if they're children, you'll see that you'll win them over with this! Get the ingredients ready, let's prepare turkey rolls in sauce together.
To prepare the turkey rolls in sauce, start with the filling. Clean the broccoli rabe , keep the leaves, and rinse them under running water. Dry them and set them aside for a moment; move on to the cheese. After removing the rind , first cut the cheese into slices, then into sticks, and finally into cubes of about 0.2 inches .
Now that you have everything, move on to the turkey. From a whole piece, cut 8 slices approximately 0.6 inches thick . On the slice , lay a leaf of broccoli rabe and flatten it .
Add some fontina cheese and roll tightly with your fingers . Finally, seal the rolls with a toothpick . Continue this way to make all the rolls.
Move to the stove. In a saucepan, heat a swirl of oil with a clove of unpeeled garlic and a sprig of rosemary, leaves removed . As soon as the base is hot, add the rolls and let them seal on high heat for 1-2 minutes, then turn them over .
When the rolls are sealed, pour in the tomato puree , season with salt and pepper, and then add 1 cup of water . Cover with a lid and let them cook on low heat for 30 minutes, shaking the saucepan from time to time to prevent the rolls from sticking to the bottom .
Make sure to ensure they don't dry out too much during cooking . Once cooked, remove the lid and serve the turkey rolls in sauce, removing the skewer, while they're still nice and hot .
The turkey rolls in sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, as long as they are kept well-covered. If you prefer, you can also freeze them raw, just let them thaw before cooking. If you want to freeze them after cooking, that's fine, but the texture might become a bit tough.
The turkey rolls in sauce allow any modifications you want for the filling! Use lettuce, escarole, or even grilled vegetables. You can choose the melting cheese you prefer and why not enhance the flavor further with slices of ham or bacon!

