name:
Apple Pancakes
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Rice flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Butter: 3 ¼tbsp(45 g)- melted
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Fuji Apples: 10.5oz(300 g)- about 1
Whole milk: 0.4cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- at room temperature
Baking powder: 1tsp(4 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Orange peel: 1
Butter: to taste- to butter the baking pan
Maple syrup: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 9 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
The pancakes are one of the most beloved breakfast dishes... born in America, they have now spread all over the world! We have tried many, but the apple pancakes truly won us over. The apple cubes inside the batter remain soft and at the same time still crunchy, while the puree gives the pancakes all the taste of apples. This version we propose today is truly original, rich in fruit, and everyone will appreciate it. Apple pancakes are small fritters, soft and so inviting that it is impossible to resist them. We are sure that after trying them, you will be eager for Sunday to prepare breakfast for the whole family or brunch with your friends. Discover the doses and procedure and all the secrets to obtaining perfect pancakes, starting from adding rice flour to the batter, to cooking.
Here are other ways to make pancakes with and without fruit:
And if you love apple desserts, also try:
To prepare the apple pancakes, first take care of the apples. Peel them and cut them in half and then into slices . Remove the core part .
Cut half of the apple into pieces and transfer it to a blender along with the milk . Blend everything until you obtain a smooth sauce . Cut the remaining apple into cubes of about 0.4 inches and keep them aside, then melt the butter and let it cool.
In the meantime, separate the egg yolk from the white and beat the latter until stiff peaks form with electric beaters. Now pour the egg yolk into a bowl and add the brown sugar .
Also pour in the apple milk and mix with a hand whisk until you obtain a homogeneous mixture. Place a sieve over the bowl and pour the flour and rice flour inside .
Add the baking powder and sift everything into the mixture . Mix again with the hand whisk .
Once you have obtained a homogeneous mixture , add the now lukewarm butter and mix again to combine .
Now add the egg white and mix very gently from bottom to top . Then add the apple cubes set aside .
Mix again, this time with a spatula , then add the grated lemon zest .
Mix one last time . Now it’s time to cook the pancakes. Heat a wide non-stick pan on the stove, lightly buttered. Place 2 tablespoons of batter on one side to form the first pancake, then form the others in the same way . Cook for 2-3 minutes, then flip them .
Continue cooking for another 2-3 minutes , then when they are golden brown on both sides, transfer them to a plate . Serve your apple pancakes with maple syrup on top .
Apple pancakes are best freshly made, but you can store them in the fridge for 1-2 days and reheat them before serving. Alternatively, you can also freeze them without syrup if any are left over.
When they are hot, it is preferable not to stack the pancakes, this way they will remain softer. You can enrich them with chocolate chips or cinnamon!

