name:
Amaretti and Chocolate Tart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2)
Powdered sugar: 1.67cups(200 g)
Butter: 1cup(250 g)- cold
Lemon peel: 1
Whole milk: 0.67cup(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(110 g)
Eggs: 4.25oz(120 g)- (about 2)
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Cornstarch: 3 ¾tbsp(30 g)
Dark chocolate: 7.1oz(200 g)
Amaretti cookies: 3.2oz(90 g)- approximately 40
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
The amaretti and chocolate tart is a delicious and scenic dessert, perfect for any occasion! What could be hiding under these little balls of shortcrust pastry? At first glance, this will be the first thought of your guests, but we are sure that upon tasting, they will surely discover what it is. The sweet taste of amaretti goes perfectly with the dark chocolate cream, and their almond flavor will leave a pleasant aftertaste in the mouth. Our classic shortcrust pastry will be the perfect container to enclose so much goodness! This amaretti and chocolate tart is a fragrant and creamy dessert, ideal for ending a dinner or Sunday lunch!
To prepare the amaretti and chocolate tart, start with the shortcrust pastry. Pour the flour into a mixer, along with the cold butter cut into pieces . Pulse the blades repeatedly until you get a sandy mixture. Using the mixer intermittently will prevent the dough from heating excessively. Stop the blades and add the powdered sugar , along with the slightly beaten egg and the grated zest of one lemon .
Activate the mixer again for a few moments, this time lowering the speed so the blades will mix the dough without blending . As soon as the mixture has combined , transfer it to the work surface and quickly work it with your hands, just enough to obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough. Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest for 2 hours in the refrigerator.
In the meantime, prepare the cream. Finely chop the chocolate, then pour milk and cream into a pot and heat until boiling. Meanwhile, in another bowl, mix the eggs with the sugar , then add the cornstarch and mix until you get a lump-free mixture.
When the milk and cream have reached boiling, pour it into the bowl with the eggs, stirring with a whisk . Transfer everything back to the pot and continue to cook, stirring continuously until it thickens. At this point, turn off the heat and add the chocolate
and keep stirring until it's completely melted and the cream has absorbed it . Then transfer the cream obtained into a bowl and cover with plastic wrap in contact. Let it cool, then transfer it to the fridge.
At this point, take the shortcrust pastry and divide it in half . Roll out the pastry using a little flour , until you get a thickness of 1/4 inch .
Transfer the rolled pastry into a 9.5-inch tart pan . Make sure the pastry adheres well to the pan, then with a gentle pressure using the rolling pin, remove the excess pastry . Alternatively, you can use a smooth blade knife. If the trimming is too much, work it together with the reserved pastry and place it in the fridge for a few minutes. At this point, use a fork to poke holes in the bottom of the tart
and pour the chocolate custard inside . Slightly level the surface, then place the amaretti inside, arranging them neatly, trying not to leave empty spaces . Then roll out the remaining pastry until you get a thickness of 1/4 inch
and use it to cover the tart . Make sure the pastry adheres well to the one underneath by applying light pressure and remove the excess pastry .
At this point , bake the tart in a preheated static oven at 340°F for about 55 minutes. Then remove from the oven and let it cool. At this point, remove the tart from the pan and sprinkle it with powdered sugar before serving .
The chocolate and amaretti tart can be stored in the fridge, well covered, for 2-3 days.
If you prefer, you can use milk chocolate instead of dark chocolate.

