name:
Beef Fillet in Crust
ingredients:
Beef filet: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Sage: - a few leaves
Rosemary: - a few sprigs
Fine salt: 1tsp
Black pepper: 1tsp
Black Greek olives: 1.67cups(250 g)- pitted
Pistachios: 1 ¼cup(150 g)- shelled
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to grate)
Red onions: 1
Red wine: 5.1oz(150 g)- Cabernet
Dijon mustard: 1tsp- ancient

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
If you love crusted dishes from Pork tenderloin en croute to Shrimp in Crust , and even cheese , which is also loved by vegetarians, you will be incredibly surprised. We are talking about the beef fillet in crust, with an original coating compared to the puff pastry or bread . For this version, we chose a delightful coating with a typically Mediterranean character thanks to Greek olives and pistachios. Thanks to these flavors, the beef fillet in crust will be the perfect dish for lovers of second courses with a bold taste, ideal for festive lunches or special occasions.
To prepare the beef fillet in crust, start with the crust. Place the pitted olives together with the pistachios on the cutting board , then use a smooth-bladed knife to chop them coarsely . Gather the mixture in a bowl and add grated Grana Padano ,
then mix to evenly combine everything and set aside for a moment . In the meantime, peel the red onion and slice it to a 1/8-inch thickness .
Now that everything is ready, sprinkle the cutting board, or work surface, with salt and pepper , then place the beef fillet on top. Rotate it, gently massaging the meat, so that the spices penetrate the tissues . Move to the stove and place a pan over the heat, let the butter melt and season with sage, rosemary, and a garlic clove .
Add the oil as well , and when the base is sufficiently hot, place the fillet in the pan . Allow the meat to seal, at medium-high temperature, for about 3 minutes per side .
Occasionally, baste the surface to keep the meat moist . When the fillet is completely cooked, discard the aromatic herbs and garlic and place the piece of meat on a rack with a tray underneath .
Spread the olive and pistachio mixture on the surface and press it to adhere completely to the meat . Finish cooking in the oven .
Bake at 430°F in a preheated static oven for about 12 minutes . Meanwhile, deglaze the seasoning in the pan. If necessary, add a splash of water to dilute the seasoning, then add the onions and red wine. Cook at medium temperature for about 8 minutes .
Occasionally stir , and when the liquid is reduced by half, add the mustard . Continue stirring for a few more moments and then turn off the heat .
Transfer the mixture to the blender and blend to obtain a smooth puree . Once the fillet is cooked, let it cool slightly before slicing and serving it with the sauce. The beef fillet in crust is ready !
It is recommended to consume the beef fillet in crust immediately. If necessary, you can keep it in the refrigerator for up to two days, but remember that both the texture of the meat and the coating may change. Freezing is not recommended.
Is the beef fillet in crust good? Certainly yes, but if you really miss a side dish that makes a difference, then we suggest the mashed potatoes !

