name:
Valtellina-style Ravioli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Buckwheat flour: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Eggs: 4- medium
Potatoes: 2
Verza (savoy cabbage): ½
Garlic: 2cloves
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Sage: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Water: to taste
Valtellina Casera cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 30 min. of resting time for the fresh pasta

instructions:
Those who don't know them are amazed at the first taste, those who have always appreciated them find new excuses to indulge abundantly! We are talking about Valtellina-style pizzoccheri , a typical dish from Valtellina based on fresh pasta made with buckwheat, while the condiment includes potatoes, cabbage, and mountain cheeses like Latteria. We want to offer you a stuffed reinterpretation of the classics: the Valtellina-style ravioli. The fresh pasta is made with buckwheat flour and eggs, and the filling is the classic combination of potatoes and cabbage. To dress these tasty ravioli, lots of good Casera cheese and a few sage leaves to perfume this stuffed goodness! Are you ready to fall in love with Valtellina-style ravioli?
Discover other specialties from this area:
If you enjoy reinventing classic first courses, also try the double filling ravioli !
To prepare the Valtellina-style ravioli, start with the fresh pasta: in a bowl, combine all-purpose flour and buckwheat flour and mix to blend them . Break 4 eggs and add them to the flours, then knead everything first with a fork ,
then by hand and, when the eggs are completely absorbed, transfer to the work surface . Knead until you get a smooth and compact dough. Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest for 30 minutes .
Focus on the filling: peel the potatoes and cut them first into slices , then into strips
and finally into very small cubes . Remove the tougher central part of the cabbage , then cut it into julienne strips .
Chop the sage leaves, then melt 2 tbsp of butter in a pan, add the sage leaves and 2 whole cloves of garlic, unpeeled .
Add the potatoes and cabbage , salt and sauté over medium heat until they reach a golden brown color. Deglaze with a ladle of water and cook for another 5-7 minutes, stirring gently from time to time: the water must be absorbed and the potatoes should become soft .
Once the filling is ready, transfer it to a bowl and remove the garlic cloves , mash everything with a fork and let it cool. Bring plenty of water to a boil in a large pot, and salt when boiling. Take the fresh pasta and place it on a lightly floured work surface with buckwheat flour .
Roll it out with a rolling pin to a thickness that is not too thin as the dough is not excessively elastic and could tear (you can also use a pasta machine, up to notch no.4). Divide the dough into 2 strips and place mounds of filling on one strip, spacing them 1-1.5 inches apart . Brush the edges with a little water
and overlap the other strip of pasta to make them adhere , then cut out the ravioli with a cutter : we used a round cutter about 3.5 inches in diameter .
Grate the Casera cheese with a coarse grater . Boil the ravioli in salted boiling water for 5 minutes; meanwhile, melt 3.5 tbsp of butter in a large pan along with the sage leaves .
Drain the ravioli directly into the pan with the butter and sage , turn off the heat and gently stir ; add the grated Casera cheese !
Season with some pepper , cover with a lid for a few moments , then plate and serve your Valtellina-style ravioli hot !
It is recommended to consume immediately. The Valtellina-style ravioli can be stored for 1 day in the refrigerator and reheated in the microwave or in a pan over low heat. They can be frozen raw.

Instead of Casera, you can use Bitto or Branzi. If you can't find them, a high-quality Fontina cheese will also work!

