name:
Crispy Salmon with Panko
ingredients:
Salmon fillets: 10.6oz(300 g)
Soy sauce: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fresh ginger: 1 ½tbsp(10 g)
Fresh scallion: 0.4oz(10 g)- (the green part)
Acacia honey: 1tsp
Panko: to taste
Sparkling water: 0.8cup(190 g)- cold
Flour: 0.83cup(100 g)
Avocado: 1
Cherry tomatoes: 0.7oz(20 g)
Red onions: 0.4oz(10 g)
Lime juice: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Salad: to taste- red sorrel
Edible flowers: to taste
Teriyaki sauce: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average
Note + 30 min. of marinating

instructions:
To make the crispy salmon with panko, first prepare the salmon marinade: peel the ginger and finely chop it , then cut the green part of the scallion into thin slices .
Take the salmon fillet, which you have already skinned and deboned, and place it in a baking dish . Cover the salmon with the scallion and ginger .
Add the honey and soy sauce , then let marinate in the refrigerator for 30 minutes , covered with plastic wrap.
In the meantime, focus on the avocado sauce: finely chop the cherry tomatoes and red onion , then extract the avocado pulp and cut it into pieces .
Transfer the avocado to a mortar, add salt and pepper, then add the cherry tomatoes and onion .
Also pour in the lime juice and oil . Use a pestle to achieve a creamy consistency .
Set the sauce aside and prepare the batter: pour the flour and cold sparkling water into a bowl and mix with a whisk to combine . At this point, remove the salmon from the marinade and drain excess .
Coat the fillet first with the batter and then with the panko, placed in a separate dish . Heat the vegetable oil to 340°F, then immerse the salmon and fry for a few minutes.
When the coating is crispy and golden, drain and transfer to paper towels . Cut the salmon fillet into cubes .
Plate and garnish the top of the cubes with the avocado sauce , then finish with lettuce leaves and edible flowers . Serve your crispy salmon with panko accompanied by teriyaki sauce !
It is recommended to consume the crispy salmon with panko immediately.
If you wish, you can try making homemade Teriyaki sauce following the recipe on our website!
Salmon and guacamole are a winning combination... try it also as a first course with Spaghetti with Guacamole and Crispy Salmon !
For an enticing version with cod, we recommend the recipe for Fried Cod with Avocado Cream !

