name:
Chocolate Chip Buns
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Manitoba flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(160 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 7.1oz(200 g)- cold
Whole milk: 0.6cup(150 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)- cold
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.3oz(8 g)
Eggs: 1- at room temperature
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 18 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 4 h of rising

instructions:
Soft and light as a cloud, chocolate chip buns will be the right motivation to wake up in the morning. With a genuine look and taste, these soft buns are made with a dough reminiscent of Brioche bread , making them ideal for breakfast. The secret of their irresistible taste is not just the softness and fragrance but the chocolate chips, which make them super tasty! If you love yeast-raised desserts, our recipe is for you. The wait during the rising times will be rewarded by these special homemade chocolate chip buns that are incredibly appetizing, which no one will be able to resist!
Let yourself be tempted by these other delights:

To make the chocolate chip buns, start with the preparation of the starter dough: in a bowl, pour the flour, crumbled fresh yeast , and water . Mix quickly, then cover with plastic wrap and let rise covered with plastic wrap for 1 hour at 77°F-79°F (it's fine to keep it in the turned-off oven with the light on).
After this time, the starter dough will have increased in volume . In the bowl of a stand mixer equipped with a hook, pour in the flours and the starter dough . Add the crumbled fresh yeast .
Finally, add the sugar and start the mixer to begin kneading . With the mixer running, pour in the milk .
Incorporate the whole egg and work for 4-5 minutes until the dough is well-bound. At this point, add the cold butter a piece at a time , then also add a pinch of salt .
Finally, add the cold chocolate chips . Turn the machine back on just long enough to incorporate the chocolate . Now transfer the dough to the floured work surface .
Give a few folds and then transfer the dough into a bowl , cover with plastic wrap , and let rise, still in the oven with the light on, for 2 hours or until doubled in volume.
Once risen , transfer the dough to a floured work surface and divide it into pieces of 1.75-2 oz . You will get about 18 buns.
Shape the pieces of dough into a round shape and place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper . Let rise for one hour, still in the turned-off oven with the light on.
Brush the surface with mixed yolk and milk , then bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 20 minutes. The chocolate chip buns will be ready when they are well golden, take them out of the oven and let them cool before enjoying them !
Chocolate chip buns can be stored in a paper bag for 1-2 days. It is recommended to warm them up a bit before serving.
You can freeze them after baking,
You can flavor the dough of the buns with lemon zest, orange, or vanilla.

