name:
Battered Broccoli
ingredients:
Broccoli: 1.7lbs(750 g)- Sicilian
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Water: 0.85cup(200 g)- lukewarm
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.2oz(5 g)
Sugar: 1tsp
Vegetable oil: to taste- for frying
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the time for cooling the broccoli and rising the batter

instructions:
Did someone say " I don't like broccoli "? Because we bet you'll change your mind soon with battered broccoli! A very simple and tasty appetizer, perfect for those who don't enjoy these winter vegetables, which are usually used to prepare an enveloping soup , a more indulgent gratin version under a rich layer of béchamel, or even the Sicilian version, " drowned "! For an ideal texture, you should blanch them slightly, so they will be perfect to bite into, wrapped in the crispy batter ! Battered broccoli will literally win you over. If you want a richer fry, try the battered vegetables.
To prepare the battered broccoli, start with the batter. In a bowl, pour in the lukewarm water , add the crumbled yeast and sugar . Then mix to dissolve everything, and let it rest for 5 minutes .
Sift the flour directly into the bowl and mix carefully to avoid lumps . When you have a smooth batter, cover it with plastic wrap and let it rise for 2 hours at room temperature or until it doubles in size .
In the meantime, prepare the Sicilian broccoli. After removing the stalk , check the tip for what to do with it, detach all the florets . Rinse under a stream of fresh water
and then plunge the florets into boiling salted water . After 10 minutes of cooking, drain them; they will still be crunchy, then let them cool completely (it will take a couple of hours, just the resting time for the batter). Retrieve the batter after resting ,
and dip a few florets at a time : they should be completely covered. Lift them with a fork and dip them in warm seed oil (heated to 340°F, measured with a kitchen thermometer) .
Let them turn golden for about ten minutes, turning occasionally, and when they are done, drain the first ones on absorbent paper : then continue this way with all the others . At the end of cooking, add a pinch of salt to your battered broccoli and enjoy them while still hot !
It is recommended to consume the battered broccoli immediately; alternatively, you can store them for up to a day in the refrigerator.
With the leftover parts of the broccoli, besides the classic broth, you can make an excellent Broccoli pesto to dress pasta, and why not some meatballs or Broccoli Burger !

