name:
Oil Rolls
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.4oz(10 g)
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Water: 0.8cup(180 g)- at room temperature
Extra virgin olive oil: 7 ½tbsp(100 g)
Malt: 0.4oz(10 g)
Fine salt: 1.7tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the rising time (about 4 hours)

instructions:
Whether you are a fan of the great classics, like milk rolls , or more unique versions, like beer rolls, one thing is certain: making bread at home is a whole different experience! So we propose you try your hand at making oil rolls, an equally tasty variant. Thanks to the poolish made with yeast, a method also used for ciabatta dough, you will achieve a result that is crispy on the outside and soft on the inside, as well as more fragrant and long-lasting. Perfect for filling with cheese, cold cuts, or vegetables for a quick meal or a rich snack, oil rolls will also make a great impression on their own, in the breadbasket, both for Holiday Sandwiches and for everyday lunch. Try making them, and you'll see that you will become increasingly skilled in the magical art of bread-making!
To make oil rolls, first prepare the poolish: pour the bread flour into a bowl, add the water and the yeast , and mix well with a spoon until you obtain a fluid and homogeneous mixture . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it mature at a temperature of 77°F-82°F for about an hour (or until it doubles in volume).
After this time, pour the all-purpose flour into the bowl of a stand mixer equipped with a dough hook, then add the malt , water , and the matured poolish . Mix the ingredients for about 10 minutes.
When the dough is well-incorporated, add the oil and the salt , and continue to mix until you get a smooth and soft dough .
Transfer the dough onto a floured work surface and shape it into a tight ball . Transfer the dough ball into a large bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let rise again at a temperature of 77°F-82°F for about 2 hours or until it doubles in size.
After the rising time , transfer the dough back onto the floured work surface and roll it out with a rolling pin to form a rectangle of 16x14 inches , then roll it up from the longer side to form a loaf 16 inches long .
Cut the loaf into 6 pieces weighing 5 oz each . Now roll out each piece of dough with a rolling pin to form an oval about 10x4 inches , then roll it up from the shorter side .
Once rolled , place the small rolls on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper with the seam side down and let rise again for an hour, still at a temperature of 77°F-82°F. Then bake them in a preheated static oven at 375°F for about 30 minutes: they should be golden on the outside and soft on the inside. For extra assurance, you can check the internal temperature with a probe to ensure it reaches 201°F. Your oil rolls are ready to be taken out of the oven !
Oil rolls can be stored for about 3 days in a food bag.
You can freeze them after cooking and letting them cool completely.
You can substitute the malt with the same amount of honey or granulated sugar.
• What is malt used for and where can it be found?
Malt improves leavening and gives the final product a nice amber color. It can be easily purchased online or at well-stocked supermarkets.
• Can dry yeast be used instead of fresh yeast?
Yes, but in this case, the amount will be about 3 grams.
• Can I knead the dough by hand if I don't have a stand mixer?
Yes, but it will require more time and effort.
• What is the ideal place to let the dough rise?
The oven turned off with the light on is a great solution to achieve the right temperature and avoid drafts.

