name:
Cauliflower Pie
ingredients:
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(130 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- cold
Whole milk: 0.1cup(30 g)- cold from the fridge
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Ricotta cheese: 1.9cups(465 g)
Cauliflower: 7cups(700 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)
Eggs: 6.2oz(175 g)- about 3
Egg yolks: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8

instructions:
Raise your hand if you love cauliflower... definitely a minority compared to those who don't have much of a liking for this vegetable, which is primarily an autumn and winter staple. Today we show you how to make this ingredient tasty, along with a savory pastry crust enriched with Grana Padano and Pecorino: cauliflower pie! This crispy shell holds a soft and delicate cream made from cauliflower and ricotta, which you can choose to enrich with diced cured meats or cheese, relying on your taste and using your imagination! Perfect as a single dish to share at the table or to take on a picnic, weather permitting!
To prepare the cauliflower pie, start by making the savory pastry dough. Pour the flour , Pecorino, and Grana Padano into the bowl of a stand mixer. Then add the cold cubed butter from the refrigerator , a pinch of salt, and pepper.
Turn on the machine and work the mixture with the paddle attachment, adding the milk in a stream . Once you have a homogeneous mixture , transfer it to a surface and knead it just enough to form a dough (if it's too sticky, add a tiny bit of flour), then wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes.
In the meantime, take care of the cauliflower: remove the green leaves , the stem, and separate the florets . Then place them in a food processor
and run it until finely chopped . Pour the slightly beaten eggs into a bowl , place a sieve on top, and pour the ricotta inside .
Use a spatula to sift the ricotta , then work the mixture with an electric mixer for a few minutes to obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream .
Then add the grated cheese , the chopped cauliflower , a pinch of salt, and pepper. Stir to combine everything , and set the filling aside.
Take your savory dough and roll it out with a rolling pin on a lightly floured surface. Once it reaches a thickness of approximately 1/4 inch, roll the dough around the rolling pin and transfer it into a 9 1/2-inch mold previously buttered and floured . Use your hands to properly fit the pastry to the edges of the pan
and trim the excess with a knife . At this point, pour the filling inside and level it with a spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 40 minutes. You can try baking in a fan oven at 356°F for about 30-35 minutes (you can do the toothpick test, and if the pie darkens too much on the surface, cover it with a sheet of aluminum foil); then remove the pie from the oven
and brush the surface of the pie with a previously beaten egg yolk . Bake again at 392°F for another 10 minutes, then let your cauliflower pie cool before unmolding and serving it .
The cauliflower pie can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2-3 days! If you prefer, you can freeze it once cooked and after it has cooled.
Flavor the filling with some nutmeg and add some diced pancetta!

