name:
Coffee mousse
ingredients:
Coffee: 2.7tbsp(40 g)- (from the moka pot)
Instant coffee: 5tsp(10 g)
Sugar: 13tbsp(160 g)
Egg whites: ⅓cup(80 g)- (from about 2 medium eggs)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.2oz(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Each year we love to celebrate all dads by delighting them with tempting sweet or savory recipes! Coffee mousse is created with this intention: to offer your dad a moment of sweetness for a snack or after a meal, a fluffy and aromatic dessert to serve in a small cup! Excellent to enjoy on its own or accompanied by tasty biscuits like our almond Coffee mousse with cigar and a small glass of liqueur, this mousse also knows other variations, such as the dark chocolate version , light and airy.
Is coffee your passion? Come and discover other sweet recipes that feature this intense-flavored beverage:

To prepare your coffee mousse, start with the meringue. In a small pot, pour the sugar and the espresso coffee made with the moka pot and heat it to 244°F (checking with a kitchen thermometer). Meanwhile, place the egg whites in a bowl and beat them with the mixers .
When the syrup reaches the temperature and the egg whites are well-beaten , pour it in a thin stream into the egg whites while continuing to beat with the mixers.
When the mixture is firm and shiny, it’s ready . Set it aside. Soak the gelatin sheet in cold water . Heat a little cream taken from the total amount in a saucepan (even 30g/1oz is enough) .
When it’s hot, turn off the heat and add the instant coffee . Stir until it’s dissolved. Drain and squeeze the gelatin and add it to the saucepan with the coffee .
Stir with a spoon until completely dissolved . Pour the mixture into a bowl to let it cool slightly . Put the mascarpone in a bowl and work it with a spoon to soften it .
Add the remaining fresh cream and the one with the gelatin . Whip everything for a few minutes with the mixers .
When it’s whipped , add the meringue little by little with a spatula , until fully absorbed. Your mousse is ready, cover it with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes .
After the necessary time, you can transfer it to a piping bag with a size 10 star nozzle and it will be ready to be served in a 125 ml (1/2 cup) cup or glass , dust with cocoa and serve immediately .
The coffee mousse can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days.
Don't throw away the remaining egg yolks but use them to prepare a delicious custard . Accompany the cups with cookies or cat's tongues to make them even more delicious!

