name:
Grandma's Cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4 ½cups(550 g)
Brown sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 0.7cup(150 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(120 g)
Eggs: 5.8oz(165 g)- (about 3)
Baker's ammonia: 2tsp(10 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
If it is true that breakfast is an important meal of the day, it is worth dedicating the right amount of space to this moment, taking the time to savor the delicacies you prefer the most. In an Italian breakfast, you cannot miss sweets like the flaky Croissant and the soft ring cakes . Alongside these delights, we find the traditional butter cookies and the morning cookies , perfect as dipping cookies in hot milk, café au lait, or tea to start the day with a sweet treat. These shortbread cookies will be even better if homemade with our grandma's cookie recipe! With their slightly rustic texture and simple taste, they are perfect for dipping into your hot beverages to make them soft and even more flavorful. After the first bite, you won't be able to stop, and one cookie will lead to another in a delicious whirl of sweetness! Discover also how to prepare grandma's tart .
To make grandma's cookies, first slice the vanilla bean lengthwise and scrape out the seeds with a small knife . Mix the baking ammonia in the milk , then pour the whole eggs into a stand mixer equipped with a paddle attachment .
Turn on the stand mixer and add the brown sugar in 3 parts . When the mixture is fluffy, add the vanilla bean seeds and the oil in a thin stream .
and the milk and ammonia mixture , keeping the mixer running. Finally, add the previously sifted flour and incorporate it with a spatula .
Transfer the mixture into a pastry bag with a 15 mm star nozzle (about 9/16 inch) . Line a baking sheet with parchment paper , taking care to slightly butter the bottom of the tray to help the paper adhere. Pipe the mixture, dragging it for about 4 inches to form the cookies .
Once you've filled a baking sheet , you can sprinkle the surface with granulated sugar . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 25 minutes on the middle rack. Once cooked, take the cookies out of the oven and let them cool slightly before serving.
Grandma's cookies can be stored for a week in a tin box. It is possible to freeze the raw dough; before using it, let it thaw in the refrigerator.
It is possible to flavor the cookies with lemon zest or make them even more delicious by covering them with strips of melted dark chocolate after baking.
Don't have a pastry bag? Try our spoon cookies recipe!

