name:
Yogurt Plumcake without Butter
ingredients:
Eggs: 6oz(168 g)- (3 medium)
Sugar: 0.7cup(140 g)
Greek yogurt: 1cup(250 g)- whole
Vegetable oil: 0.4cup(100 ml)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Potato starch: 4tbsp(60 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Baking powder: 3 ¼tsp(16 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
The yogurt plumcake is a soft cake highly appreciated by both adults and children for its lightness and simple goodness, even in the orange version ! The English origins of the word plumcake refer to a typical Anglo-Saxon cake that contains English Plumcake in its dough. But there are truly numerous variations: from the Chocolate chip loaf cake or the lemon plumcake , the Whole Wheat Plumcake for example, or Gluten-free plumcake and Sugar-free mini plumcakes to allow everyone to enjoy it for a genuine snack or breakfast... in any case, the plumcake always wins us over with its delicate goodness! In this recipe, we have omitted the butter and enriched the dough with creamy Greek yogurt . Once you take the yogurt plumcake without butter out of the oven, its aroma will captivate you... and you'll lose yourself in its irresistible softness! And if you want to enjoy it in a single-portion version, try these yogurt muffins ! If instead, you prefer the classic cake, don't miss our recipe for Yogurt cake without butter .
To prepare the yogurt plumcake without butter, have all the weighed ingredients at room temperature. Place the whole eggs in a large bowl along with the granulated sugar and a pinch of salt; whisk everything with an electric mixer, initially on low speed, then you can increase it . When you have obtained a light and frothy mixture, discard the electric beaters and take a hand whisk. Add the Greek yogurt little by little, mixing with the whisk to incorporate .
Grate the zest of a lemon and add it to the mixture . Stir to blend all the ingredients well , then pour in the oil in a thin stream while continuing to stir .
In a bowl, sift the flour, potato starch, and baking powder , then add the dry ingredients one spoonful at a time to the batter , mixing with a spatula from top to bottom , until the dry ingredients are completely incorporated and you have a smooth and homogeneous batter.
Butter and line a loaf pan measuring 9x4x3 inches (with a capacity of 1 liter) with parchment paper ; gently pour in the batter you have prepared , leveling the surface very gently with a spatula. Bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 55 minutes. Check the cooking by performing a toothpick test: insert a toothpick in the center of the plumcake, and if it comes out clean, it means it's ready; otherwise, extend the cooking for a few more minutes. When the plumcake is golden brown, remove it from the oven , let it cool completely in the pan, then remove from the pan: your yogurt plumcake without butter is ready to be served!
Store the yogurt plumcake without butter outside the refrigerator under a glass dome for a maximum of 3-4 days. Once cooked, it can be frozen and kept for up to 30 days.
Instead of Greek yogurt, you can use a flavored fruit yogurt with a thick consistency, choosing the flavor you prefer: you'll get a more delicious and tasty plumcake! Alternatively, you can also use ricotta and make a Whole Wheat Plumcake . Otherwise, flavor it with plenty of citrus zest, and for example, you can get a very fragrant lemon plumcake !

