name:
Oat and Hazelnut Plumcake
ingredients:
Type 2 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Almond milk: 0.67cup(150 g)
Butter: 0.7cup(150 g)- soft
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Rolled oats: ¾cup(60 g)
Whole peeled hazelnuts: 1.75oz(50 g)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (about 1 medium) at room temperature
Baking powder: 5.7tsp(16 g)
Butter: to taste
Type 2 flour: to taste
Whole peeled hazelnuts: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
There are many ways to start the day in a wholesome way and replenish your energy, such as with a delicious fig and walnut pound cake or a classic porridge … in this case, we combined oats with nuts to create a fantastic oat and hazelnut pound cake! This is a really simple preparation made with semi-wholemeal flour, brown sugar, and Almond milk , which will delight lovers of homemade desserts with a rustic and unrefined character: the coarsely chopped hazelnuts add a crunchy note that pleasantly contrasts with the soft texture of the batter. Follow the recipe and tell us what your family thinks of the oat and hazelnut pound cake!
To prepare the oat and hazelnut pound cake, put the softened butter and brown sugar in a bowl and mix with electric beaters for a couple of minutes, then add the egg at room temperature and continue mixing until fully absorbed. Sift the type 2 flour and baking powder directly into the bowl .
Incorporate the dry ingredients with the beaters, then pour in the almond milk and continue mixing until you obtain a homogeneous mixture. Finally, add the oats and coarsely chopped hazelnuts and mix with a spatula.
Pour the batter into a greased and floured loaf pan measuring 8x4.5 inches , level the surface with a spatula, and sprinkle it with the coarsely chopped hazelnuts . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 55 minutes, then let cool and enjoy your oat and hazelnut pound cake !
The oat pound cake can be stored for about 4 days at room temperature. You can freeze it after it is baked and completely cooled.
You can substitute hazelnuts with almonds, walnuts, or other nuts. Alternatively, you can easily use cow's milk or another type of plant-based milk, such as oat or hazelnut milk, instead of almond milk!

