name:
Cookie Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Brown sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (1 medium)
Butter: 2cups(150 g)- (soft)
Baking powder: 1tsp(5 g)
Baking soda: ½tsp(3 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Dark chocolate chips: 0.7cup(120 g)
Dark chocolate 55%: 5.25oz(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.7cup(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note plus resting time (1 hour)

instructions:
The cookie cake is a super delicious dessert that no one will be able to resist, especially chocolate lovers! This cake combines two of the recipes we love the most: classic American cookies and the delicious crumble cake . A truly tempting version, made with a pastry rich in chocolate chips and an incredibly creamy filling. The crispy shell encloses a dark chocolate Ganache cream . The cookie cake is simple to make, and after trying it, we are sure you won't leave this recipe, will you try it even without butter or in the cookie cake version with Smarties? For breakfast, snack, or to satisfy your sweet craving, this cake is perfect at any time... and if it's not enough, serve it with a scoop of vanilla ice cream! Here are more recipes we recommend trying:
To prepare the cookie cake, start with the dough. In a large bowl, pour the flour and softened butter . Work with your fingertips until you get a sandy mixture. At this point, add the brown sugar .
Also add the granulated sugar and work with your hands to combine the ingredients , then add the egg.
Add the vanilla extract , baking powder , and baking soda .
Quickly combine with your hands and finally add the chocolate chips . Work quickly until you get a homogeneous dough . Cover the dough with plastic wrap and transfer to the refrigerator until use.
In the meantime, prepare the ganache. Finely chop the dark chocolate and transfer it to a bowl. Pour the cream into a saucepan and bring to a boil . As soon as it starts to boil, turn off the heat and pour half of the cream into the chocolate .
Mix with a spatula without incorporating air . Once you have a homogeneous mixture, pour in the remaining cream and mix again until you get a smooth cream .
Cover the ganache with plastic wrap in contact and let it rest in the refrigerator for 60 min. After this time, retrieve the chocolate chip pastry from the refrigerator. With your hands, crumble half of the dough into an 18 cm (7-inch) springform pan . Slightly press the dough crumbs to adhere to the edge and each other. Pour the now cold ganache onto the pastry base .
Spread it evenly with the back of a spoon, leaving a 1 cm (about 1/2-inch) border . Cover the ganache with the remaining dough, crumbling it with your hands and apply slight pressure with your fingers to adhere the dough to the edges .
Bake in a static oven at 350°F for 30 min. Remove from the oven and let cool completely before removing from the mold.
The cookie cake keeps for 3 days in the refrigerator.
We recommend taking the cookie cake out of the fridge 30 minutes before serving it.
You can add chopped nuts to the dough.

