name:
Veal Pot Roast
ingredients:
Veal round: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Mustard: 1spoonful
Carrots: 1
Onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Sage: 4sprigs
Rosemary: 4sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.3cup(80 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Usually cooked in the oven, oven-baked veal roast is one of those dishes that can't be missing during holidays or Sunday lunch. Today we want to show you how to prepare veal roast in a pot: an easy recipe that will make everyone happy and is quick to prepare! A great classic, a main course perfect for gathering the whole family, to be served with delicious oven-baked potatoes! Thanks to the milk, you'll get very tender meat and a creamy sauce that'll make you lick your chops, also thanks to the sautéed vegetables and the addition of mustard. Here are more roasts you shouldn't miss:

To prepare the pot roast, first peel the onion and slice it . Peel the celery and cut it into pieces about an inch long ; do the same with the carrots .
Trim any excess fat from the meat , then place the herbs on top and proceed with the classic tying ; if you're not very experienced, follow our guide " how to tie a roast ", or let your trusted butcher do this. Salt the roast and massage the meat well.
In a pot, preferably cast iron, heat a drizzle of oil and place the roast inside . Brown it well on all sides , which will take about 10 minutes, then transfer it to a baking dish .
In the same pot, add celery, carrot, and onion . Let them brown well for a few minutes , then add the roast .
Let it flavor, then pour in the milk and cover with a lid . Let it cook for 40 minutes on low heat , occasionally turning the roast.
After this time, remove from the pot and discard the herbs and string . Use an immersion blender to blend the cooking base until you get a creamy consistency . Then let it reduce for about ten minutes.
When creamy, add the mustard and stir . Make sure the roast is still nice and hot and slice it . Serve your pot veal roast on a bed of sauce !
We recommend serving the pot veal roast immediately. Alternatively, you can store it in the fridge for one day.
Instead of milk, you can use the same amount of broth. In this case, you can deglaze the meat and vegetables with wine, for a richer flavor!

