name:
Chicken breast with curry
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.1lbs(480 g)
Curry: 1tsp
Red onions: 0.9oz(25 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Water: 0.8cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Milk: ½cup(100 g)
Curry: 1spoonful
Cornstarch: ¾tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Chicken breast with curry is a meat main course that captivates for its simplicity and is perfect for those looking for a quick, versatile recipe with exotic flavors. Chicken breast with curry is not just a dish but a culinary journey that will expand your horizons. The curry, the undisputed star of this recipe, gives the chicken an intense golden color and an aroma that whets the appetite. You'll need just a few simple ingredients to obtain a flavorful dish that will delight your palate and can be customized according to your tastes: for those who love spiciness, chili pepper will enhance the spicy notes, while for those who prefer a milder taste, coconut milk will give the dish a sweet and fresh note. Accompanied by basmati rice, chicken breast with curry transforms into a complete and satisfying meal, ideal for a family dinner or with friends.
If you're looking for recipes with chicken breast, try these too!

To prepare the chicken breast with curry, first focus on the curry sauce. In a saucepan, place the curry powder, add the cornstarch , and mix. Once the ingredients are blended, gradually add the milk , continuing to stir to prevent lumps. Place the saucepan on the burner over low heat, continuing to stir . As soon as the sauce comes to a boil, remove it from the heat and let it cool, stirring occasionally.
Meanwhile, clean the chicken breast of any cartilage and cut it into slices about 1/4 inch thick . To bread the chicken slices, mix the flour, curry powder , and salt together.
Coat both sides of the chicken slices in the flour and curry mixture and set aside. Peel and slice the onion. In a pot, melt the butter , add the onion , and cook for 5 minutes over low heat.
Place the chicken and brown it for a minute on each side. Pour in the water and cook for 15 minutes, turning the slices occasionally. Then add the curry sauce and cook, stirring continuously, for another minute. The chicken breast with curry is ready, serve hot!
Chicken breast with curry can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for one day.
You can replace the cornstarch with the same amount of flour.
If you want a milder curry sauce, you can replace the milk with coconut milk.
If you like it spicy, you can add chili pepper during the cooking of the curry sauce.

