name:
Baked Mozzarella in Carrozza
ingredients:
Mozzarella cheese: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sandwich bread: 4.9oz(140 g)- (8 slices)
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Breadcrumbs: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Put together small delicious bites, wrapped in a golden crust like potato croquettes and Ascolana olives and it's immediately aperitif time! Because there's no aperitif without a tasty... and fried delicacy! But who said that these delights need to be dipped in hot oil to be appetizing? We've thought about it and want to challenge, or rather tempt you, with our lighter version of an evergreen classic: baked mozzarella in carrozza . With its tasty soft filling enclosed in a case of sandwich bread, it is an irresistible version of fried mozzarella! The only difference: oven cooking, making it equally crispy on the outside and pleasantly stringy on the inside. Heat up the ovens and sharpen the knives, preparing this recipe will be a piece of cake!
Also try Fried mozzarella and mozzarella and ham in carrozza , perfect for your aperitifs!
To prepare the baked mozzarella in carrozza, cut off the edges of 8 slices of sandwich bread , then dry the mozzarella and cut it into slices . It is important that the mozzarella is well dried so that it doesn't release liquid during cooking. In a separate bowl, beat the eggs
season with salt and pepper . Take a slice of sandwich bread, place the mozzarella slices on top , and then close it like a sandwich with another slice of sandwich bread .
Pour the milk into a bowl and immerse the sandwich , then pass it in the beaten eggs , and finally finish the breading with breadcrumbs , thoroughly covering the surface and edges of the sandwich bread.
Now, it's time to proceed with cooking: line a baking sheet with parchment paper and place the pieces to be cooked on it ; bake in a preheated static oven at 400°F for 15 minutes. Once cooked, remove the baking sheet from the oven and serve your baked mozzarella in carrozza hot and stringy .
To preserve the crispiness of the mozzarella in carrozza, it is best to consume them immediately. Freezing is not recommended.
Do you want to add a tangy note to your baked mozzarella in carrozza? Add anchovy fillets to the filling, they will be irresistible!

