name:
Pasta artichokes and sausage
ingredients:
Whole wheat Tortiglioni pasta: 2cups(320 g)
Artichokes: 4- to clean
Sausage: 1lb(450 g)
White wine: 0.7oz(20 g)
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
It is said that the meeting of two strong characters inevitably leads to conflict: we have decided to dare and pair two ingredients with a strong personality in a single dish: pasta with artichokes and sausage! Sausage works well with all combinations, we have also tried it in a more summery version with eggplant and with ricotta . Today we propose the preparation of a simple yet characterful sauce, which combines the sweet and bitter notes of the artichoke with the robust and intense flavors of the sausage, enhanced by the rustic taste of whole wheat pasta. Pasta with artichokes and sausage is an ideal main course for a hearty and informal dinner, which will make you feel full and satisfied! If the combination of these ingredients has convinced you too, we suggest an even more sumptuous variant for particularly cold days: macaroni pie with sausage and artichokes !
To prepare pasta with artichokes and sausage, first of all take care of the cleaning of the artichokes (remember to wear gloves or rub your hands with lemon to prevent them from blackening upon contact with the artichokes): remove the toughest leaves of the artichoke, starting from the outside until you reach the more tender heart . Remove the end of the stem and peel the fibrous outer layer with a paring knife . Now remove the tip, which is the part with the thorns . You will get about 12 oz of cleaned artichokes.
Cut the artichoke heart obtained in half ; at this point you can scrape away the internal choke with a small knife and cut the remaining part into very thin slices . Transfer the cleaned and sliced artichokes into a bowl full of acidulated water (i.e., mixed with some lemon juice) to prevent them from blackening upon contact with air.
Bring a pot of salted water to a boil, which you will use to cook the pasta. In the meantime, prepare the sausage: score the casing with a small knife and gently pull it off with your hands to remove it , then break up the sausage using a spatula or bench scraper . Place the sausage in a hot pan, without the need to add oil, and brown it over medium-high heat for 7-8 minutes, stirring frequently .
When the meat is well-browned and has a uniform color, pour in the white wine and let it evaporate. Then drain the artichokes and add them to the pan with the sausage ; adjust with salt and pepper and cook for about ten minutes over medium-high heat, until they have softened.
While the artichokes are cooking, boil the pasta and chop the parsley. When the pasta is al dente, drain it with a slotted spoon and add it directly to the pan with the sauce and sauté everything together for a minute. At this point, turn off the heat and sprinkle with the chopped parsley , mix well and plate the dish: your pasta with artichokes and sausage is ready to be served hot !
It is preferable to consume the pasta with artichokes and sausage immediately after preparation; otherwise, you can store it in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to one day.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you want to make the pasta with artichokes and sausage even more flavorful, you can sprinkle it with grated Pecorino or Parmesan cheese; if instead you prefer to intensify its aroma, add some thyme or marjoram leaves! Finally, you could try to enrich the sauce with a little fresh ricotta to achieve a creamy and velvety effect!

