name:
Creamy mashed potatoes
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.2lbs(550 g)- yellow-fleshed
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Sour cream: 1spoonful
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The mashed potatoes is one of the most classic side dishes. Loved by everyone for its creamy texture, it pairs perfectly with numerous main courses, especially meat-based ones. Today, here at Giallo Zafferano, we want to offer you an even more flavorful and velvety variant: creamy mashed potatoes! Chef Roberto Di Pinto follows the classic method, but with a few extra precautions, such as completely drying the potatoes in a pan and sieving them to achieve a finer result that will melt in your mouth with every bite. But the real secret is to use cream instead of butter; by folding the mashed potatoes with fresh cream, you'll achieve a creamy consistency that will win over all your guests! And to get a taste that never tires, the sour cream will add a tangy note that will contrast with the delicate taste of the potatoes! Prepare classic cutlets or scallops and accompany them with this creamy mash, you won't regret it!
Also try the recipe for saffron mashed potatoes, a tasty and aromatic variant!
To prepare creamy mashed potatoes, first place the potatoes in a pot and fill it with water , then boil them for about 40 minutes . Once cooked, drain them and set them aside for a moment. At this point, focus on reducing the cream: pour it into a saucepan
and let it reduce by 50% over very low heat , it will take about 10 minutes. In the meantime, peel the potatoes, which should still be hot . Once peeled, and still hot, mash them using the appropriate tool .
Then, transfer the potatoes to a non-stick pan and over very low heat, stirring with a spatula , let all the moisture in the potatoes evaporate completely. A crust should not form on the bottom, so the heat should be constant but moderate. At this point, sieve the potatoes. Place them in a strainer over a bowl
and with a spatula sieve the potatoes to render them even more velvety . Add a pinch of salt
and mix with your hands to create a smooth, soft, and compact dough . Now, it only remains to fold the mash: pour the cream reduction into a larger pot
add the separated potato dough pieces into the cream and using a spatula fully incorporate the cream into the potatoes. At this point, turn off the heat and begin to whip the mash with the spatula by quickly beating it to incorporate air and achieve a fluffier consistency.
Then add the sour cream and mix to fully blend it. Then add a generous grating of nutmeg , adjust the salt if necessary, mix again, and serve your creamy mash with a drizzle of raw oil on top .
The creamy mash can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1-2 days, in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
For a very tasty creamy mash, use Noratt potatoes; if you can't find them, yellow-fleshed potatoes will work fine.

