name:
Fusilli with black cabbage and bacon
ingredients:
5-grain fusilli pasta: 3 ¼cups(320 g)
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 1.1lbs(500 g)
Sweet Pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 2- small
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Long, thick, veined leaves, with a greenish color, that seem to be covered in bubbles, are the main ingredient of this recipe. Do you know what we're talking about? Black cabbage is a vegetable often used in cooking, especially in Tuscany where it is used to prepare ribollita and other winter soups. Today we've captured its unique taste, stronger than other cabbages, in this first course: fusilli with black cabbage and bacon. The cabbage's long cooking makes it tender and pleasant, while the crispy bacon cubes enhance this preparation, tempting even the skeptics and non-vegetable lovers to try it! By using five-grain pasta, you'll get a rustic, slightly spicy flavor, perfect for the whole family, which you can also delight with another recipe seasoned with purple cabbage and cappuccio, the cabbage and bacon pasta !
Also try the black cabbage pesto , perfect for creamy pasta dishes!
To prepare fusilli with black cabbage and bacon, start by washing the black cabbage leaves under running water. Place them on a cutting board and slice them finely ; set them aside and deal with the chili pepper, removing the seeds and also slicing it finely. In a fairly large pan, pour a drizzle of oil, add a peeled garlic clove, the chili pepper , and let it brown over low heat.
Add the black cabbage , season with salt and pepper , and add a ladle of cooking water
and mix everything . Cover with a lid and let it cook for about 30 minutes over low heat, stirring often and adding water if necessary .
Place a pot full of water on the stove, salted to taste, and bring it to a boil; this will be used to cook the pasta. In the meantime, take the bacon and cut it first into strips and then into cubes . Transfer them to a pre-heated pan
and let the bacon fry without adding other fats until it becomes golden and crispy . At this point, cook the pasta , and as soon as the cabbage is ready, remove the garlic clove .
Once cooked (al dente), drain it and pour it directly into the pan with the black cabbage, keeping a little cooking water aside . Add the Parmesan cheese , a ladle of cooking water
and toss everything for a few minutes . Plate your fusilli and top with the bacon cubes , then serve while still steaming .
It is recommended to consume the pasta immediately; alternatively, you can store it in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day in an airtight container.
The black cabbage alone can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 2-3 days.
Freezing the pasta is not recommended, while the cabbage alone can be frozen.
Use speck instead of bacon for an even more special taste!

