name:
Lentil Ragù
ingredients:
Dried lentils: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Canned tomatoes: 3.3cups(800 g)
Water: 3.3cups(800 g)
Yellow onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Carrots: 0.6cup(80 g)
Celery: 1rib
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Rosemary: 4sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
The favorite pasta sauce among Italians? Definitely ragù! The variations can be endless, from Bolognese ragù to Maltagliati with Fish Ragù . To give everyone the chance to enjoy this dish, we prepared lentil ragù, inspired by the typical pasta with lentils . The soffritto is classic, as tradition demands, but instead of ground meat, we've chosen one of the most appreciated legumes. The stewed lentils will be soft and blend into the sauce to become a perfect condiment for simple pasta or eggless tagliatelle , or to enrich a Vegan lasagna ! And if your vegan friends are coming over for a last-minute lunch, don't worry, the lentil ragù will be ready in an hour and everyone will be amazed by the surprise awaiting them!
Also try these vegetarian ragù recipes:
Discover more delicious Sauces recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the lentil ragù, start by cleaning the carrot, celery, and onion , then finely chop them using a knife . Chop the rosemary as well and set it aside.
Pour the oil into a saucepan , add carrot, celery, and onion , and let them brown over medium heat for about 10 minutes. Meanwhile, rinse the lentils and add them to the soffritto .
Mix everything and first add the rosemary , then the tomato pulp .
Also add the water and mix again . Cover with a lid and let it cook for an hour over medium heat, stirring occasionally. Cooking times may vary depending on the type of lentils you purchase, so we recommend reading the instructions on the package and adhering to those.
Only when the ragù is cooked, adjust the salt and add the pepper . Mix everything and your lentil ragù will be ready.
Lentil ragù can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 2-3 days. Alternatively, it can be frozen.
If you prefer, you can use shallot instead of onion, or use bay leaf instead of rosemary.

