name:
Rice with Potatoes and Scamorza
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Potatoes: 1.2lbs(550 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 2.75oz(80 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
White onions: 1- medium
Dried chili pepper: 1- small
Rosemary: 1sprig
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pasta and potatoes , a gastronomic wonder from Campania... with this flavor and texture in mind, we thought of making rice with potatoes and scamorza. A hearty, flavorful first course, perfect for a dinner filled with genuine good flavors. Some may prefer it slightly more brothy, others thicker... who knows if you'll be able to please everyone, but we are sure that in any case you will win over your guests with simplicity and taste! Let's start preparing rice with potatoes and scamorza together.
To prepare rice with potatoes and scamorza, start by cleaning and slicing the onion . Then wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half , and finally, peel the potatoes and cut them into fairly large pieces .
In a saucepan, pour a drizzle of oil and crumble a chili pepper , add the onion and let it soften for a few minutes over low heat . Then add the cherry tomatoes .
Add the potatoes and stir , scent with a sprig of rosemary , salt, and cover with plenty of hot water .
Let it cook over medium heat for 30 minutes . Meanwhile, slice the scamorza and cut it into cubes .
By now, the potatoes will be almost ready, you can toast the rice. Pour it into a non-stick pan without any fat . Stir often and let it become hot, being careful not to burn it. From the pan with the seasoning, remove the rosemary sprig , and pour the rice into the seasoning .
Moisten it with hot water, pouring it a little at a time , and continue cooking this way . At the end of cooking, turn off the burner and add the scamorza cubes .
Stir to mix well and make sure the salt is just right . Plate and enjoy your rice with potatoes and scamorza !
Once the rice with potatoes and scamorza is ready, it is recommended to consume it immediately. You may store it for a couple of days in the refrigerator, but be aware that the texture will deteriorate.
Leftover rice with potatoes and scamorza? No problem! Place it in a baking dish, or in delightful single-serving cocottes, sprinkle the surface with breadcrumbs + Parmesan, and let it gratinate in the oven: how delicious! For a richer and non-vegetarian sauté, let some lard melt.

