name:
Potato and Sausage Crumble
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Eggs: 1
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Cornstarch: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sausage: 0.8lb(360 g)
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 19.4oz(550 g)
White wine: 1.8oz(50 g)
Shallot: 1
Rosemary: 1sprig

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
If you fell in love with our potato crumble with bacon , you're sure to appreciate this version too! Let's prepare potato and sausage crumble together. The base is the usual one, soft, made with red potatoes and with a pleasant crispy outer crust, but this time we've opted for a different, even more tantalizing filling: sausage fried in a pan and slices of buffalo mozzarella that, when melted, will make everything gooey and irresistible! The potato crumble can be served as a main dish or like a savory pie to enrich your appetizers. A truly unique recipe that you really can't resist! If you love this kind of recipe, also try: polenta with sausage and cheese !
To make the potato and sausage crumble, first place the potatoes in a pot with cold water, enough to cover them . Boil for 30-40 minutes, until tender when pierced with a fork. Then slice the mozzarella . Place it in a strainer over a bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let it drain well .
Meanwhile, prepare the filling. Clean the shallot and finely chop it . Move on to the sausage. Remove it from the casing and coarsely chop it with a knife .
Also chop the rosemary . Move on to cooking. Pour the shallot into a pan with a drizzle of oil and let it stew gently for 7-8 minutes. Then increase the heat and add the sausage .
Break it up well with a spoon and fry it. Add the rosemary and when it's well browned, deglaze with white wine .
Salt, pepper, and let the wine evaporate well, then turn off the heat and set aside. Once the potatoes are cooked , drain and mash them with a potato masher, collecting the puree in a large bowl .
Wait until they are warm. Then add the starch , half of the grated Parmesan , salt, and pepper .
Also add the whole egg and mix everything by hand (or initially with a wooden spoon) until you get a homogeneous mixture ,
but still crumbly . Line a 9-inch round baking pan with parchment paper and pour half of the mixture inside. Use the back of a spoon to press slightly and create a smooth base .
Drain the mozzarella well and arrange half of it on the potato base, breaking it with your hands . Add the sausage, distributing it evenly , then finish with the remaining mozzarella .
Cover with the remaining mixture, spreading it well and crumbling it to cover the filling . Drizzle with a little oil and season with a pinch of pepper .
Add the rest of the Parmesan on top and bake in a preheated static oven at 400°F in the middle rack for 20 minutes. After 20 minutes, continue baking for 5 minutes with the grill at 465°F. Once cooked, the savory crumble will be nicely golden on top. Take it out of the oven . Let it cool slightly before removing from the pan and serving !
It can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Squeeze the mozzarella very well, otherwise, the crumble will struggle to cook.

