name:
Spaghetti with rancetto
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 14oz(400 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Pancetta tesa: 5.5oz(150 g)
White onions: 0.67cup(100 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)- to be grated
Marjoram: 1sprig
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Today we present you a first course that at first glance might remind you of the original amatriciana , but it is typical of Umbrian cuisine: we're talking about spaghetti with rancetto! Bacon, tomato , Pecorino, and marjoram are the ingredients that characterize this sauce which is usually paired with umbricelli, a traditional type of fresh pasta similar to spaghetti. A recipe with peasant origins, therefore, that uses local products in a simple and incredibly tasty way. Try spaghetti with rancetto, and you'll understand why they are still so appreciated today!
Discover more delicious Spaghetti recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare spaghetti with rancetto, first clean and finely chop the onion , then cut the bacon into cubes . Heat a pan and brown the bacon for 5 minutes . Meanwhile, bring a pot of water to a boil to cook the pasta.
When it is golden and crispy, set the bacon aside and leave the fat in the pan where you'll sauté the onion over medium heat . Once golden, add the chopped peeled tomatoes and cook for about 10 minutes with the lid on.
At this point, the water will have come to a boil, so cook the pasta . Towards the end of the sauce's cooking time, flavor with marjoram leaves and adjust with salt and pepper . Drain the spaghetti al dente directly into the sauce and mix to combine, adding a bit of the cooking water if needed .
Add part of the bacon and mix again. Finally, remove the pan from the heat and mix in the grated Pecorino cheese . Serve the spaghetti with rancetto by adding the remaining bacon to the plate and a drizzle of raw olive oil, plus pepper and Pecorino to taste !
It is recommended to eat the spaghetti with rancetto immediately after preparing it.
Instead of peeled tomatoes, you can use fresh tomatoes when in season.
The version with guanciale is also popular, which is just as tasty!
The term "rancetto" refers to the slightly rancid taste that characterized the traditionally used bacon, due to a long aging process.

