name:
Spring Omelette
ingredients:
Eggs: 4
Red peppers: 2cups(300 g)
Yellow peppers: 2cups(300 g)
Carrots: 1
Asparagus: 7.1oz(200 g)
Leeks: 1 ¼cup(100 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: 3sprigs
Marjoram: 2sprigs
Wild fennel: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¾tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The spring omelette is a colorful dish rich in vegetables and very tasty. In this omelette, you will find a great variety of pan-cooked vegetables that are very good and nutritious: carrots, asparagus, leek, and peppers, all made even more flavorful with spices, which give it an even more appetizing touch. You can serve this omelette as an appetizer to share with friends or as a main course with a nice salad.
Also try these spring omelette recipes:

To prepare the spring omelette, start by washing all the vegetables under plenty of fresh running water. Scrape the stalks of the asparagus with a vegetable peeler to remove the tougher outer parts , then cut the stalk into cubes of about 1/5 inch and the tips in half .
Finely slice the leek , then peel the carrots and cut them into cubes of about 1/5 inch . Continue cleaning the peppers: remove the top part ,
then with a knife, remove the white filaments and seeds found inside ; then cut them into cubes of about 1/5 inch . Place a non-stick pan with oil and a garlic clove on the stove.
When the garlic is golden, remove it from the heat and add the carrots and leek , cooking for 2 minutes and seasoning with salt and pepper. Add the yellow and red peppers, along with the asparagus
and cook for another 10-12 minutes, adding a ladle of water and stirring with a spatula . In a separate bowl, beat the eggs and add salt and pepper.
Add the herbs as well: thyme, marjoram , and fennel . Stir with a whisk to mix all the ingredients .
Once the vegetables are ready , turn off the heat and add them to the beaten eggs , mixing well with a teaspoon .
Pour everything into a 11-inch diameter non-stick pan and cook covered with a lid for 6-7 minutes over moderate heat . With the help of the lid, flip the omelette to cook it on the other side for about 3 minutes . Once ready , turn off the heat and serve your spring omelette .
Pour everything into a non-stick pan with a diameter of (?) and cook covered with a lid for 6-7 minutes over moderate heat . With the help of the lid, flip the omelette to cook it on the other side for about 3 minutes . Once ready , turn off the heat and serve your spring omelette .
You can keep the spring omelette covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for up to 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
To your colorful spring omelette, you can add the seasonal vegetables of your choice. Additionally, you can flavor it with some nutmeg: you'll see how delicious it is!

