name:
Croissants with Sourdough Starter
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 3 ½cups(430 g)
Manitoba flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Water: 1.1cups(250 g)- at room temperature
Sourdough starter: ¾cup(180 g)- (refreshed at least 4 hours ago)
Eggs: 2.1oz(60 g)- (1 medium)
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(12 g)
Butter: 1.3cups(300 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: 2tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus resting times (10 hours). Note: the sourdough starter should be refreshed at least 4 hours before or should have been refreshed no more than 24 hours before use.

instructions:
Who doesn't love enjoying a good Croissant for breakfast? There are endless variations to create these crescent-shaped brioche , and today we want to finally present you with the recipe for our croissants with sourdough starter! The technique used is very similar to that used in Italian-style folded croissants , but in this case, instead of yeast, we used sourdough which will allow the croissants to last longer and give them a truly unique taste and incredible aroma! The croissants with sourdough starter will be soft and fragrant and are perfect for filling with cream, jam, or Whole wheat honey croissants . If making them at home doesn't seem like child's play, we encourage you to challenge yourself... we are sure the result will satisfy you! If you are looking for other breakfast pastries to make with sourdough, try these Braids with Sourdough Starter or our raisin brioche knots !
To prepare the croissants with sourdough starter, start with the dough. Pour the all-purpose flour, bread flour , and sourdough starter (which should be refreshed at least 4 hours before using, so it has the right strength to leaven the dough, but not more than 24 hours before) into the stand mixer. Start kneading at medium/low speed with the hook, adding the water little by little .
When the dough is smooth and homogeneous , add the lightly beaten egg a little at a time , allowing the dough to absorb it gradually. Finally, when the egg is completely absorbed, add the sugar
and the salt . Knead for about 5 minutes until your dough is smooth and well bound . Transfer it to a surface, shape it into a ball
and place it on a tray, covering with cling film . Transfer to the fridge for 2 hours. Meanwhile, take the butter from the fridge and let it soften at room temperature for about 20 minutes. Place it between two sheets of parchment paper and, with the help of a rolling pin, roll it out to a thickness of 0.5-0.75 inches. You should get a butter square of about 8x8 inches . At this point, keep it in the parchment paper in which you rolled it out and transfer it back to the fridge to avoid it getting too warm. After the 2-hour rest, remove both the dough and butter from the fridge and let them sit at room temperature for 30 minutes. Lightly dust your work surface with flour and gently roll out the dough with a rolling pin
until you form a square of about 12x12 inches . Make sure the dough is not too floured, or you will find it difficult to seal it after adding the butter. At this point, place the butter square in the center of the dough to form a diamond shape . Fold the edges of the dough over towards the center of the butter block ,
bringing the edges together without overlapping and seal the ends with your fingers . Now stretch it lengthwise , ensuring it's elongated only from one side until you get a rectangle about 20 inches long .
Then make the first fold in thirds by bringing the top edge of the dough to 1/3 of the rectangle . Then lift the bottom dough and fold it over to cover the previous one . The first fold is done. Rotate the block, positioning it with the short fold facing you, where the folds are visible, and roll it out again to always get a rectangle of the same size as before .
At this point, repeat the fold in thirds by always bringing one dough edge towards 1/3 of the rectangle and covering with the other . Transfer the dough onto a tray, cover with cling film , and let it rest in the fridge for 20 minutes .
After the 20 minutes, take the dough from the fridge and give it the last fold in thirds, as done previously . Place it back in the tray, cover with cling film , and let it rest again in the fridge, this time for 2 hours. After this time, take the block and roll it out to obtain a rectangle 30 inches long and 6 inches wide, with a thickness of about 1/8-3/16 inches .
From this, you should obtain 15 triangles with a base of 4 inches and a height of 6 inches . Form the first croissant: firmly hold the base of one of the triangles with one hand and gently stretch the dough with the other hand to increase its length by 1/4. Now, roll your croissant starting from the base without pressing or squeezing too much . Prepare all the croissants this way
and place them, with the closure facing down, on a baking sheet spaced well apart . Cover them with cling film and let them proof again at room temperature until they double, which will take about 5/6 hours . You need to monitor them every once in a while, as each sourdough starter has different proofing times.
Once they have risen, beat an egg yolk with some milk and use it to brush the croissants . Bake the sourdough croissants in a preheated static oven at 390°F for about 20 minutes, in the middle rack of the oven. When the croissants are nicely golden, you can take them out . Let them cool at room temperature and serve them!
The sourdough croissants can be kept at room temperature, covered for 2 days, but it is recommended to consume them the same day. Once baked, they can be frozen. You can also freeze the raw formed croissants before the last proofing: you can then take them out of the freezer, let them thaw overnight in a turned-off oven, and then brush them as indicated in the recipe. Then bake them as instructed. Alternatively, you can also freeze them after baking.
Be very careful not to wait too long between folds, because if the butter inside the dough cools down too much it may break when you roll the dough. If you are looking for a butter-free alternative, try Butterless Croissants !
Unfortunately, it is not the same. Using dehydrated sourdough starter would require rebalancing the amount of water and flour, and the result may not be the same.
A stand mixer is not necessary, but it is a great help. You can also make the dough by hand!
It is possible to add citrus zest, vanilla, or cinnamon to the first dough.
For the best results, we recommend following the times indicated in the recipe.

