name:
Mini diplomatici
ingredients:
Eggs: 5.3oz(150 g)- (about 2 large)
Sugar: 0.375cup(75 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.3cup(38 g)
Potato starch: 0.3cup(38 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Puff pastry: 1lb(460 g)- (2 ready rectangular sheets)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: 6tbsp(75 g)
Type 00 flour: 1oz(25 g)
Egg yolks: 3- (of medium eggs)
Powdered sugar: ⅛cup(20 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(180 g)
Alchermes: 7cups(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
The diplomatic cake is one of the most famous and classic desserts of Italian pastry. Here we offer you a delicious mini version: mini diplomatic! Just like the original version, they are made with a soft sponge cake soaked in Alchermes, two layers of crispy puff pastry, and a very delicate diplomatic cream , which is pastry cream and semi-whipped cream together. These sweets are perfect for making a birthday party or as a dessert for a truly special Sunday! The various layers will win over your guests with their simple taste and different textures, which you will discover bite after bite! And if you are lovers of mini pastries made with puff pastry, don't miss these recipes:

To prepare the mini diplomatic, for the sponge cake, you can use a stand mixer with beaters or electric beaters: work the eggs, adding the granulated sugar a little at a time . Also, add the seeds of the vanilla pod and continue to whip the mixture until it is light and fluffy (this will take about 15-20 minutes) .
Add the sifted flour little by little and with the help of a spatula, gently mix from bottom to top to incorporate it. Then add the cornstarch, again sifting it and a little at a time .
Mix gently from top to bottom to avoid deflating the batter . As soon as the powders are well combined, pour the mixture into a 10.5x8 inch buttered and floured rectangular pan . Level the surface with a spatula and bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for about 45 minutes. Always adjust according to the power of your oven.
Meanwhile, prepare the cream. In a bowl, pour the egg yolks and sugar , mix with a whisk and when they are combined, add the flour little by little ,
always stirring with the whisk , until you get a smooth mixture. At this point, put the milk in a saucepan, add the vanilla seeds and bring it almost to a boil. Then pour it little by little into the bowl with yolks and flour ,
continuing to mix with the whisk until completely combined . Pour the obtained mixture back into the saucepan ,
turn the heat back on low and stir with a whisk until it thickens . Pour the cream into a bowl , cover it with plastic wrap, and let it cool in the refrigerator . As soon as the sponge cake is cooked, take it out of the oven and let it cool at room temperature.
Now take your ready-made pastry and gently roll it out with a rolling pin . Transfer it to a baking sheet with its parchment paper, and prick it with a fork or the appropriate wheel . Sprinkle with powdered sugar . Do the same for the other one and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 15 minutes (until they are well golden). If you bake them together, you can swap the sheets halfway through cooking. For perfect cooking, of course, adjust with your oven.
Take it out of the oven and let it cool at room temperature . Do the same with the second puff pastry sheet. As soon as the pastry cream has cooled, pour the fresh cream into a bowl, add the powdered sugar , and whip it with electric beaters until it is semi-whipped.
Soften the pastry cream by working it with a whisk . Now add the cream to the custard a little at a time , mixing gently with the spatula .
When the sponge cake is cold, trim it both at the top and bottom to eliminate the crust . Then trim it laterally to obtain a rectangle measuring 9.5x6 inches .
When the puff pastry is cold, trim it laterally to obtain a rectangle of the same size . Repeat this operation for the second layer. Now you will need to assemble the diplomatic. Take a rectangle of puff pastry that will serve as the base and spread half of the diplomatic cream on it with a spatula . Place the sponge cake on top
and brush it well with Alchermes . Put the rest of the cream, spreading it with a spatula , and finally, place the last rectangle of puff pastry on the cream .
Transfer to a plate, cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for an hour. Then transfer to a cutting board and cut with a serrated knife into 6 vertical slices . They will have a width of about 1.5 inches.
Now divide each slice into 5 squares . Transfer them to a tray , sprinkle them with powdered sugar, and serve cold .
The mini diplomatic can be stored in the refrigerator for two days.
For a more indulgent version, make one layer of pastry cream and one of chocolate pastry cream. Alternatively, you can add dark chocolate chips or shavings inside the dessert!

If you prefer to make the cream with starch, you can use about 1.4 oz of cornstarch instead of the indicated flour.

