name:
Chocolate Brioche Bread
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 3 ½cups(400 g)- sifted
Sugar: 3 ¼tbsp(40 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(55 g)
Water: 3tbsp(45 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(14 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (2 medium)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Butter: 8tbsp(115 g)- (at room temperature)
Dark chocolate: 1.8oz(50 g)- (72% large chips)
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus the rising time (about 13 hours)

instructions:
Your breakfast will never be the same again thanks to pastry chef Stefano Ferraro's chocolate brioche bread! Delicious because they are also very simple to make. To prepare the dough for the Brioche bread we recommend choosing high-quality ingredients... a single-grain flour and excellent butter will give a unique flavor. If you can't find them, you can always rely on the powerful and natural aroma of vanilla or orange zest! The long maturation in the fridge will allow the dough to develop and rise slowly for perfect leavening. To enrich these very soft rolls, we suggest using rather bitter dark chocolate, which contrasts with the sweetness of the brioche bread, but if you prefer, you can also use chocolate with a lower cocoa %, or milk chocolate. What we recommend is to always use chocolate chips and not chop the chocolate, so it won't melt during baking! All that's left is to get your hands dirty and prepare these delicious chocolate brioche bread, perfect for the whole family! Also, discover these recipes for a varied breakfast:
To prepare the chocolate brioche bread, the first thing to do is take the butter out of the fridge for about ten minutes. In the bowl of a stand mixer, pour in the previously sifted Manitoba flour , the sugar , and using a dough scraper, create a well in the center : this will help the stand mixer work more efficiently.
Then pour the milk , water , and crumbled yeast into the center.
Beat 2 eggs and pour them into the stand mixer . Attach the hook and run the mixer for a couple of minutes at medium speed . Add the salt and mix until it's absorbed .
Incorporate the butter in three batches , waiting for it to be fully absorbed before adding more. When the butter is well absorbed, add the chocolate chips . As soon as the gluten structure is well-formed, turn off the mixer and using a dough scraper, transfer the dough onto a work surface. Using the scraper again, shape the dough into a more regular round form, gently pirling it. Grease a bowl that is at least twice the size and transfer the dough into it .
Cover the dough with plastic wrap and place it in the fridge at 39°F for the whole night or for 10-12 hours. Once the dough is well-risen , transfer it onto a work surface .
Again with the help of a scraper, cut the dough into pieces weighing 1.75-2 oz each , obtaining 13 pieces . Round each piece with the palm of your hand to form regular balls and smooth them as much as possible .
Do the same for all the others . Transfer the balls to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, spacing them at least 1.5-2 inches apart. Cover the balls with previously greased plastic wrap to prevent sticking. Let them rise for 45-60 minutes at room temperature. When the brioches are well-risen, beat the yolk in a small bowl with the milk. Use it to brush the surface of the brioches .
Once all the brioches are brushed , bake in a preheated fan oven at 392°F for 10-15 minutes, on the middle-lower rack. When nicely golden, remove the brioche bread and let them cool slightly before serving .
The chocolate brioche bread can be stored in a well-sealed food bag for a couple of days. Alternatively, after baking, they can be frozen.
If you are in a hurry, you can let the dough rise at room temperature for 1-1.5 hours, keeping in mind that skipping the fridge step may result in a less flavorful product.

