name:
Broccoli Cream with Crunchy Croutons
ingredients:
Broccoli: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.6cup(150 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)- to grate
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Pancetta tesa: 3oz(80 g)
Sandwich bread: 1.75oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Broccoli are rich in vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants, but not everyone enjoys eating them. We can create appetizing main courses such as pasta , Broccoli pesto , or creamy soups like the broccoli cream with crunchy croutons that we offer here! Adding cream provides a rich and creamy texture that contrasts with the crunchy note of bacon cubes and toasted bread. Winter is the perfect season to add broccoli to our table, and this dish will warm you up on the coldest evenings! Nutritious and flavorful, the broccoli cream with crunchy croutons is made with simple ingredients in just a few minutes and is suitable for the whole family dinner.
To prepare the broccoli cream with crunchy croutons, first wash and clean the broccoli by removing the hard and woody part of the stem , then divide them into florets . Bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the broccoli for about 10 minutes .
Meanwhile, cut the bacon and sandwich bread into cubes. Sauté the bacon in a pan over moderate heat until it becomes crispy and golden . Set the bacon aside, leaving the fat in the pan, and use it to toast the sandwich bread. Once cooked, drain the broccoli and save the cooking water. Blend the broccoli with an immersion blender .
Add a couple of ladles of the cooking water and blend again, then add the cream and grated Parmesan cheese . Blend again, adding another ladle of cooking water if necessary until the desired consistency is reached.
Finally, adjust the salt and pepper. Garnish with crispy bacon and toasted bread cubes, drizzle with raw olive oil , and serve your broccoli cream with crunchy croutons immediately !
The broccoli cream with crunchy croutons can be stored in the refrigerator for about 2 days.
Replace the bacon with nuts or seeds for a vegetarian version!

