name:
White Chocolate Lava Cakes
ingredients:
White chocolate: 5.8oz(165 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(60 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2) at room temperature
Powdered sugar: ¼cup(30 g)
Butter: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)- (soft)
Almond flour: 1 ½tbsp(15 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Fine salt: 1pinch
Butter: to taste
Brown sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 17 min
Serving: 5
Cost: Average

instructions:
The molten chocolate cake is too tempting for chocolate lovers, but imagine an even sweeter version and how much satisfaction it will bring you! Enjoying these cakes with a white molten center gave us so much pleasure! A sweet indulgence that no one will be able to resist, but after all, who can blame you when its warm and creamy center is a true magnet for chocolate lovers! With the first bite, this explosion will be a real surprise, so what are you waiting for? Get to work and prepare to receive many compliments! Our only advice?! Bake the cakes at the moment of serving, it's the only way to fully enjoy all their goodness! Here are other cakes to prepare:

To prepare the cakes with a white molten center, first coarsely chop the chocolate and place it in a bowl . Melt in the microwave or double boiler , then add the butter cut into pieces .
Heat for a few more seconds until completely melted. Stir well with a spatula . In another bowl, combine eggs and powdered sugar , beat with electric whisks for a couple of minutes, then add the salt and mix for a few more seconds.
When they are well frothy, add the chocolate and butter mixture, continuing to beat with the whisks . Also incorporate the vanilla seeds and add the all-purpose flour .
and the almond flour . Mix again with the electric whisks until obtaining a homogeneous mixture .
Butter 5 aluminum molds, place a teaspoon of sugar in the center and rotate them to coat completely . Pour the mixture inside ,
dividing it equally among the molds . Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 16-17 minutes. At this point, take the cakes out of the oven , gently unmold them and serve hot.
It is recommended to consume immediately. You can store the raw white molten center cake in the refrigerator for 1 day covered with plastic wrap or you can freeze it. In this case, just place them in the oven frozen: it will take a few more minutes of cooking (3-4 minutes more).
You can flavor the cakes with citrus zest or replace the almond flour with hazelnut or pistachio flour.

