name:
Veal Scaloppine with Pomegranate
ingredients:
Sliced veal: 0.9lb(400 g)- round cut
White wine: 3.4oz(100 ml)
Pomegranate: 1.5lbs(700 g)- (about 2)
Cornstarch: 6tbsp(50 g)
Rosemary: 1bunch
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 14 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
A succulent meat main course with distinctly winter notes: veal scaloppine with pomegranate is an original variant of this simple and tasty meat dish. Tender veal slices floured and deglazed with white wine, flavored with juice extracted from two red and lively pomegranates. The perfect dish for a last-minute dinner, to be accompanied by classic baked potatoes for guaranteed success!
To prepare the pomegranate scaloppine, start by cutting the pomegranates in half , squeeze and strain the juice (you'll need about 7/8 cup) , set aside.
Take the cornstarch and place it on a large flat plate, thoroughly coat the slices on both sides (4-5). In a wide pan, pour in the extra virgin olive oil
heat over medium heat then cook the meat slices for 2-3 minutes on each side, turning them with kitchen tongs . Deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate.
Transfer the slices to a plate (10-11) and pour the pomegranate juice into the cooking base .
Let it thicken over low heat, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon for about 4-5 minutes . Then put the slices back in the pan, adjust salt, and add some fresh rosemary sprigs . Let it flavor for a few minutes. Serve the veal scaloppine with pomegranate by decorating the dish with some pomegranate seeds .
Always choose thin veal slices to prepare scaloppine because the cooking needs to be quick. If necessary, you can flatten them further with a meat tenderizer by placing the slices between two sheets of parchment paper. It's better to use cornstarch to coat the meat instead of flour: it adheres better to the meat and makes the sauce thicker and creamier.
The veal scaloppine with pomegranate can be stored in the fridge in a container for up to one day. To reheat, add a few tablespoons of white wine.

