name:
Potato and Onion Crunch
ingredients:
Potatoes: 0.5lb(230 g)
Yellow onions: ½cup(70 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(220 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(290 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp- grated
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Corn flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Did you try the Pumpkin Crunch and were impressed by its simple deliciousness? Then try the potato and onion crunch, a rustic and equally appetizing variant! It's a kind of unleavened focaccia that can be prepared in minutes, with a golden and crispy surface, just as its name suggests. Great to enjoy on its own or with cheese and cold cuts, the potato and onion crunch is a vegetarian savory pie for a unique appetizer!
Also, try these potato and onion-based recipes:
To prepare the potato and onion crunch, first peel the potatoes and slice them very thinly with a mandolin to obtain very thin slices . Peel the onions and also cut them into very thin rings . Combine the potatoes and onions in a bowl and move on to the dough.
Pour the flour and water into a bowl and mix with a hand whisk until you get a smooth and homogeneous mixture, then add 2 level teaspoons of salt and the pepper and mix again. Finally, add the potatoes and onions .
Mix to incorporate them evenly . Grease a mold with a diameter of 12 inches and sprinkle it first with all-purpose flour and then with cornmeal .
Pour the dough into the mold and level it with the back of a spoon , then sprinkle the surface generously with cornmeal .
Finally, season with a drizzle of oil and a dash of pepper . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 50 minutes, then continue cooking for another 10-15 minutes in ventilated mode at 428°F. When the surface is well golden, take out and serve your potato and onion crunch !
The potato and onion crunch can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
Monitor the cooking of the potato and onion crunch: if you notice that the inside is still too soft, lower the temperature and extend the cooking for a few more minutes.

