name:
Filetto al pepe verde senza burro
ingredients:
Beef filet: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.7cups(400 g)
Mustard: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Brandy: 1.4oz(40 g)
Green peppercorns: 4tsp(20 g)- in brine
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
The fillet with green peppercorns is a classic main course perfect for any special occasion. We will show you how to prepare the fillet with green peppercorns without butter, cooked in vegetable oil and always characterized by an extraordinary flavorful creamy sauce made of cream, mustard, and brandy, as per the original version. It cooks very quickly, leaving the meat well-seared on the outside but extremely tender inside. It will be a pleasure to enjoy the beef tenderloin wrapped in the creamy sauce, flavored with green peppercorns, this very aromatic variety with herbal notes. Serve the fillet with green peppercorns without butter with classic roasted potatoes and success is assured!
Discover other succulent main courses such as:
To make the fillet with green peppercorns without butter, cut the beef tenderloin into 4 pieces and tie each one with kitchen string to obtain 4 medallions .
Pour the vegetable oil into a large pan and heat it very well before placing the fillets . Sear them for about 2-3 minutes , turning them on both sides.
When they are well-sealed, deglaze with the brandy . Now you will need to flambé the fillets (being very careful). You can use a torch as we did to evaporate all the alcohol content . You can also tilt the pan if you have a gas burner. Alternatively, you can skip this step and wait for the alcohol to evaporate without flambéing.
Once the alcohol has evaporated, you can pour in the cream , and add the green peppercorns which you have previously rinsed under running water . Finally, you can add the mustard .
Mix all the ingredients well and adjust the salt . Cook for another 2-3 minutes on high heat to thicken the sauce . Serve the fillets with green peppercorns without butter, topping with the sauce and, if desired, with roasted potatoes on the side !
It is recommended to consume the fillet with green peppercorns without butter as soon as it's ready.

Instead of brandy, you can use cognac or whiskey.
If you prefer, you can skip the flambéing and wait for the alcohol to evaporate in the pan.

