name:
Potato and Bean Burger
ingredients:
Precooked red beans: 2.1cups(500 g)
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Soy sauce: 1 ¼tbsp(20 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Breadcrumbs: 1.67cups(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Smoked paprika: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Chives: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Looking for an original idea to switch up the usual Italian-style Hamburger ? Try the potato and bean burger, a tempting and easy-to-make vegetarian burger. Perfect as a main course, accompanied by a side of seasonal vegetables or enjoyed with the must-have French fries , the irresistible companions of traditional burgers. No one will be able to resist the temptation to fill the typical burger buns with these vegetarian patties. Super quick to make, they are perfect with a salad and a dipping sauce to enrich your sandwiches, even to bring for lunch at work!
Here are some more ideas for your vegetarian burgers:
To prepare the potato and bean burgers, start by boiling the whole potatoes with the skin in a large pot . It will take about 30 minutes. Always do the fork test; if it easily pierces the potatoes, they are ready. Peel them while still hot .
Place them in a blender with drained canned red beans, salt , pepper, and extra virgin olive oil .
Season with oregano, chives , thyme, paprika, and soy sauce . Add the egg , then blend everything well.
When the mixture starts to come together, add breadcrumbs in parts to adjust the consistency and blend again. The mixture should have a consistency similar to traditional meatball dough . Wet your hands and moisten an 8 cm (3-inch) diameter ring placed on a tray lined with parchment paper with water. Scoop about 110 g (about 4 oz) of mixture and place it inside the ring .
Compact it well with a moistened spoon and remove the ring . If it's more convenient for you, cut the parchment paper around the burgers for cooking.
Heat a drizzle of oil in a non-stick pan , flip the burgers into the pan and remove the parchment paper .
Cook over medium heat for about 5 minutes on each side , or until they are nicely golden . The potato and bean burgers are ready to be served .
The potato and bean burgers can be stored in the refrigerator for two days. They can be frozen after cooking.
You can replace the red beans with other varieties such as borlotti or cannellini, taking care to recalibrate the quantities according to the consistency of the mixture.

