name:
Pasta with Leek and Potato Cream with Crispy Speck
ingredients:
Mezze Maniche Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Leeks: ½
Potatoes: 5.3oz(150 g)
Speck: 4.6oz(130 g)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
That Vichyssoise (cold leek and potato cream) were a winning combination was already well known to the French, who in the early 1900s invented a cold soup. But today we want to prepare a cream to dress pasta, with an added touch of flavor. Today's recipe is pasta with leek and potato cream with crispy speck. A triumph of flavors with textures ranging from soft and creamy to the crispy part given by the speck. This first course will surely please your diners who will want to have seconds!
To prepare the pasta with leek and potato cream with crispy speck, start by cleaning and the leek . Slice it into thin rings and then proceed to the potatoes, peel these as well .
Cut them into very small cubes to facilitate quick cooking . Place a pan on the heat with a dash of oil, heat slightly, then add the leeks and then the potatoes . Let everything brown for a couple of minutes.
It's time to add the milk , so you can extend the cooking for another 8-10 minutes. Season with salt . When the vegetables are cooked, transfer them to the bowl of a blender
and start it until you get a smooth cream . Return to the stove, in a non-stick pan pour the speck cut into strips about 0.4 inches wide .
Scald them to make them crispy and golden and move on to cooking the pasta in boiling salted water. Drain the mezze maniche into a pan , add the leek cream
and stir with the heat off, also adding the speck strips . As a final touch, chop the parsley and add it directly to the plates of your pasta with leek and potato cream with crispy speck !
Pasta with leek and potato cream with crispy speck can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of a couple of days.
Add some toasted nuts, such as hazelnuts or almonds, to make your pasta with leek and potato cream with crispy speck even tastier!

