name:
Leek and potato soup with bacon
ingredients:
Leeks: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Potatoes: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Smoked pancetta: 5.3oz(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Semolina: ½cup(100 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
The leek and potato cream with bacon is a comforting first course to enjoy as a warm treat on the coldest days. A tasty and appetizing idea that deliciously revisits typical soups and cream soups of winter. Just two humble ingredients like leeks and potatoes enriched with crispy diced smoked bacon and fried leek sticks will be enough. The result is a genuine and tantalizing dish that will enliven your winter menus.
To prepare the leek and potato cream with bacon, start by cleaning the leeks. Cut off the greenest part and trim the root base, cut lengthwise in half and rinse under running water .
Now cut the leek into a “log” of about 6 inches, thinly slice this piece lengthwise to obtain thin sticks , which you will immerse in plenty of ice water . At this point, cut the remaining leeks into small pieces of roughly equal size .
Peel the potatoes and cut them into small pieces of the same size . Heat the oil in a pot, add the leeks and sauté them. Add the potatoes as well .
Sauté for a few minutes, adding a pinch of salt, and cover with broth . Cook for about 30 minutes from boiling . Now attend to the bacon, pour it into a non-stick pan .
and sauté over medium heat until it becomes slightly colored and crispy , place it on a tray with absorbent paper to dry excess fat . Meanwhile, heat seed oil in a high-sided pot. Drain the sliced leek from the ice water, dry it well with a cloth .
and pass it in semolina . When the oil reaches the right temperature, about 350°F, fry your floured leek sticks . Cook for about 3-4 minutes, until they become crispy but not dark, then drain them .
Dry the fried leek well on absorbent paper . Once the cooking of leeks and potatoes is finished , adjust with salt and pepper and blend the mixture adding 1.4 oz of extra virgin olive oil.
until it results in a smooth cream . Serve your cream in a soup plate and garnish with crispy bacon cubes and fried leek .
It is recommended to consume the leek and potato cream with bacon immediately. However, it keeps well for a couple of days in the refrigerator and can be reheated in a pot.
Be careful with the cutting of leeks and potatoes; there is no recommended shape, but the size is important, the more uniform it is, the better it will cook. If you like, you can add fresh herbs such as rosemary, which pairs well with your ingredients. If you have any doubts about the cream's density, when blending, you can drain the cooked vegetables, keeping the cooking liquid to add gradually while blending, in this way you will achieve the desired consistency. If the leeks are very large, we recommend removing the first outer layer which might be tough.

