name:
Vegetarian Ascolana Olives
ingredients:
Green olives: 3 ¼cups(450 g)
Wild fennel: to taste- fresh
Chickory: 11tbsp(150 g)
Chard: 4 ¼cups(150 g)
Spinach: 5cups(150 g)
Zucchini: 1
Onions: ½
Carrots: ½
Celery: ½rib
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 4.5oz(130 g)- (to grate)
Stale bread: 2.5oz(75 g)
Eggs: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Eggs: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Spinach: to taste- dried
Sunflower seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 50 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + soaking time for the olives (12 h)

instructions:
Impossible to resist Ascolana olives ! One leads to another... even in the vegetable-based variant we present here: vegetarian Ascolana olives. This recipe was created for us by Gabriella Calvaresi from “ Siamo Fritti ”, a famous spot in Ascoli Piceno known for Ascolana olives and more! The classic meat filling is replaced with a mix of chicory, chard, zucchini, and spinach, while the crispy breading takes on a green hue thanks to the addition of a special ingredient that enhances these delicious fried bites even more. Perfect to serve at an aperitif alongside the traditional version, vegetarian Ascolana olives are an appetizer worth licking your fingers for!
Discover more recipes with olives:

To make the vegetarian Ascolana olives, first rinse the olives and soak them overnight with some sprigs of fresh fennel . Prepare the filling: clean and coarsely chop the chicory and the zucchini .
Do the same with the chard , while the spinach can be left whole. Heat the oil in a saucepan and fry the aromatic blend that you have made by blending carrot, celery, onion, and salt (see the advice section) . Add the chicory .
Add the chard and zucchini , mix well and add pepper . Cover with a lid and stew everything for 5-10 minutes .
After this time, add the spinach and continue cooking for another 15-20 minutes, still covered . At the end of cooking, the vegetables should be completely dried out, so turn off the heat and let them cool .
Grind the vegetables together with the stale bread using a grinder . Add the egg and the grated Parmigiano Reggiano PDO .
Flavor with nutmeg and knead everything by hand until you get a dry and compact mixture ; if necessary, you can add a teaspoon of cornstarch.
At this point, drain the olives: remove the pit by making a spiral cut so as not to break the pulp .
Insert a walnut-sized piece of filling inside the olive and press it into the palm of your hand to compact it well . Continue this way to stuff all the olives .
You can move on to the breading: dredge the stuffed olives in flour , then dip them in beaten eggs and drain with a strainer to remove excess egg .
Mix the spinach powder with the breadcrumbs and coat the olives with the obtained mix . Proceed this way to bread all the olives .
You are ready to fry: heat plenty of vegetable oil to a temperature of 356°F, then immerse a few olives at a time and fry for a few minutes. When they are evenly golden, drain and transfer to paper towels . Serve your vegetarian Ascolana olives immediately !
It is recommended to consume vegetarian Ascolana olives immediately.
You can freeze the raw olives after stuffing and breading them, then fry them directly from the frozen state.
The aromatic blend is prepared by blending carrots, celery, and onion with a dose of salt corresponding to 30% of their weight.
If the vegetable filling is too soft, you can add a teaspoon of cornstarch.
For an even crispier result, you can do a double breading!
Fennel for soaking the olives is optional.
Pre-pitted green olives can be purchased in stores.

