name:
Soft Milk Cakes
ingredients:
Egg whites: 1.3cups(320 g)- (about 8)
Egg yolks: 5oz(140 g)- (approximately 8)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(60 g)
Potato starch: 3tbsp(40 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(5 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.7cups(400 g)
Condensed milk: 6tbsp(120 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(7 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 9 pieces
Cost: Low
Note +2 h of chilling in the refrigerator

instructions:
Discover the best snacks around: Nutella swirls , milk cocoa slices and Saccottini . To this delightful assortment, we add our soft milk cakes, where a velvety, frothy cream embraces two layers of the softest Biscuit dough . Perfect for a break awaited by the little ones or for a refreshing office break, these individual treats are an irresistible indulgence, suitable for any time of the day... and any age! Homemade snacks are known to be the best, so get to work immediately to prepare these delicious soft milk cakes and other tasty and genuine snacks such as:

To prepare the soft milk cakes, start with the sponge cake: in the bowl of a stand mixer, pour the egg whites and sugar . Whip with the beaters at high speed for 10-15 minutes until you obtain a white and frothy mixture . Meanwhile, melt the butter in a double boiler and let it cool.
At this point, add the egg yolks and gently mix with a spatula to avoid deflating the egg whites, using movements from top to bottom , until they are well incorporated .
Now add the sifted dry ingredients through a sieve: the cornstarch , flour , and baking powder .
Mix as before, gently with the spatula . Pour in the cooled melted butter and combine one last time to obtain a homogeneous batter .
Pour the mixture into a greased and parchment-lined rectangular pan of 12x16 inches , then level it well with a spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for 15 minutes. Once baked, remove the sponge cake and let it cool .
Meanwhile, soak the gelatin sheets in cold water to soften them . In a saucepan, heat half the dose of condensed milk together with the drained and squeezed gelatin .
Stir well to dissolve it . Then combine the hot mixture with the remaining condensed milk set aside . Stir to blend .
In the bowl of the stand mixer, pour the cold liquid cream from the fridge , then whip with the beaters until frothy. Incorporate the condensed milk and mix to obtain a homogeneous cream .
Now unmold the sponge cake onto a cutting board and cut it in half to obtain 2 equal-sized rectangles . Trim the edges with a knife , then spread the cream prepared with the condensed milk on one of the bases .
Level it well with the spatula to create a regular filling layer . Cover with the second layer of sponge cake . Level the cream well on the edge with the blade of a knife .
Now cut the dessert to obtain 9 rectangles . Garnish with powdered sugar and serve your soft milk cakes immediately !
The soft milk cakes can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
You can freeze the sponge cake without filling.
You can flavor the sponge cake with lemon zest or vanilla extract.

