name:
White Pizzoccheri from Valtellina
ingredients:
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(60 g)
Whole milk: 1.67cups(400 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(170 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Valtellina Casera cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Sage: 5leaves
Garlic: 2cloves
Pesteda valtellinese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Valtellina is famous for the deliciousness of its typical dishes, especially the sciatt and pizzoccheri alla valtellinese , but not everyone knows an equally tasty variant of the latter: the white pizzoccheri from Valtellina! A traditional recipe proposed for us by chef Gianni Tarabini that differs from the classic version both in ingredients and preparation: in this case, the pizzoccheri, similar to dumplings, are not made with buckwheat but with a rather soft dough made of bread, milk, and flour that is shaped with a spoon. In the seasoning, we still find potatoes, butter, and cheese, but cabbage is not present. So don't hesitate, for those who wish to delve deeper into the flavors of the Lombard Alps, the white pizzoccheri from Valtellina are a must-try!
Also try the ravioli alla valtellinese , a tasty reinterpretation.
To make the white pizzoccheri from Valtellina, start with the pizzoccheri dough: pour the breadcrumbs into a bowl, add the milk and mix , then add the flour .
Add a pinch of salt and continue mixing until you obtain a soft, not dry mixture . Put a large pot with 12 cups of water on the stove. In the meantime, cut the cheese into cubes .
Peel the potatoes and cut them into cubes about 0.6 inches . When the water comes to a boil, salt it and add the potato cubes . Wait for the water to return to a boil, then take the dough and, using 1 or 2 tablespoons, scoop a portion the size of a large olive .
Drop the dough directly into the boiling water , making sure to complete this operation rather quickly to prevent the first dumplings from cooking too much. Meanwhile, melt the butter in a large pan along with the sage leaves and crushed garlic cloves . Drain the pizzoccheri as soon as they float and transfer them along with the potatoes into the pan with the seasoning .
Add the Valtellina Casera cheese and toss everything for a few moments, so that the cheese melts . Serve your white pizzoccheri from Valtellina warm !
It is recommended to prepare the dough at the moment and consume the white pizzoccheri from Valtellina immediately.
If you cannot find Valtellina Casera, you can replace it with Bitto or Latteria cheese.

