name:
Crepe Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 3
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2cups(500 g)
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Dark chocolate 55%: 7oz(200 g)
Glucose: 1.6tbsp(20 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Orange peel: 1
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average

instructions:
Crepes are one of the most beloved recipes by all. Due to their simplicity, they are the go-to snack for students, who gather at any time to make and fill them, most often with a generous layer of Nutella ! Today we want to transform simple crepes into a majestic and inviting dessert, perfect to prepare for a birthday or a special occasion! The crepe cake is composed of many soft layers, interspersed with Chantilly cream and a super delicious topping made with a dark chocolate ganache flavored with cinnamon and orange! The crepe cake will win over your guests, layer after layer, and will become one of your signature dishes! If you love layered desserts, also try the Layer cake !
To prepare the crepes, start by cracking the eggs into a high-sided bowl , mix with a fork, and add the milk . Stir thoroughly to blend these two ingredients .
Place a sieve over the bowl and then sift the flour into it . For convenience, you can add it in two batches and mix to avoid lumps. Then, use a whisk to vigorously mix the flour until it is absorbed . Continue stirring until you obtain a smooth, velvety mixture without lumps .
At this point, cover the bowl with transparent plastic wrap and let it rest for at least 30 minutes in the refrigerator . After the time has passed, stir the batter to revive it, then heat a 6-inch crepe pan and grease it with a pat of butter. Once at temperature, pour a ladle of batter sufficient to cover the surface of the pan . You can use a crepe spreader or rotate the pan to distribute the batter evenly; it is advisable to perform these operations quickly as the batter will cook rapidly. After about 1 minute over medium-low heat, you should notice a slight golden color; the edges will begin to lift, so you can flip the first crepe with a spatula .
Cook the other side for about 1 minute, waiting for it to color . Once cooked, transfer it to a serving plate or a cutting board. Repeat this operation until the batter is finished; you should obtain 17 crepes with a diameter of about 6 inches: stack the crepes so they remain soft . Let them cool, and in the meantime, prepare the filling. Pour the cream and powdered sugar into a bowl .
and the seeds from half a vanilla pod . Whip everything with an electric mixer . Then take a 6-inch metal ring and place it on a tray where you have laid a sheet of parchment paper. Take a crepe and spread a thin layer of Chantilly cream on it .
Then place it inside the ring, making sure that the cream faces you (16-17). Take the second crepe, cover it with cream .
and place it on top of the previous one . Continue this way until you finish all the crepes, except for one, which you should place on top of the others without cream . Press lightly with your hands to compact everything , cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes.
Before removing the cake from the fridge, prepare the ganache. Chop the dark chocolate and transfer it to a bowl. Place the cream, glucose , orange zest, and cinnamon in a saucepan.
Bring everything to a boil over low heat , then immediately pour the cream into the chocolate, filtering it with a sieve . Mix with a spatula until you obtain a smooth ganache .
Take the crepe cake out of the fridge, remove the ring (28-29), and transfer it to a wire rack .
Pour half of the ganache over the cake and use a spatula to spread it over the surface and the sides . Refrigerate for 10 minutes.
Then pour the remaining ganache on top and spread it again with the spatula . Then refrigerate and wait at least 30 minutes before serving your crepe cake !
The crepe cake can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can prepare the crepes a day in advance, stack them on top of each other, wrap them in plastic, and store them in the refrigerator.
It is possible to flavor the ganache with other spices or liqueur of your choice.
You can enrich the cake with chopped nuts or decorate it with berries.

