name:
Yogurt and Apple Plumcake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Natural plain yogurt: 2cups(500 g)- whole
Golden delicious apples: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Sugar: 1 ¾cup(360 g)
Eggs: 12.7oz(360 g)- (about 6 medium)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Baking powder: 3.8tsp(16 g)
Lemon peel: 1- grated
Type 00 flour: to taste
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 12

instructions:
What will come from the meeting between the simplicity of yogurt plumcake and the genuineness of apple plumcake ? A soft and delicate dessert: yogurt and apple plumcake! Perfect for the family's breakfast and snack time, it is made with butter, sugar, and eggs as in the most classic version. The added touch comes from the addition of diced fruit in the batter, making it particularly tasty and nutritious. Bring the soft goodness of yogurt and apple plumcake to the table for a sweet awakening!
Also discover:
To make the yogurt and apple plumcake, first melt 3 oz of butter in a saucepan or microwave and set it aside. Peel the apples, cut them in half , and remove the core. First, slice them and then dice them into 1/2 inch cubes .
Pour the eggs and sugar into a large bowl and beat with an electric mixer until you get a light and frothy mixture. At this point, gradually incorporate the flour and baking powder , keeping the mixer running at a lower speed.
Once the dry ingredients are well absorbed, first add the melted butter that has cooled slightly and then the yogurt , continuing to mix to combine everything well. Also, add the grated lemon zest .
Finally, add the apples to the mixture , incorporating them with a spatula . Pour the batter into a 14x4x4 inch loaf pan, greased and floured .
Dip the blade of a knife into the remaining 0.7 oz of butter that you previously melted, then make a cut in the center of the batter lengthwise ; this way, you’ll achieve the classic crack found in plumcakes. Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 1 hour and 15 minutes on the middle rack . Once cooked, take it out of the oven and let it cool before enjoying your yogurt and apple plumcake .
The yogurt and apple plumcake can be stored at room temperature for 3 days, covered with a cake dome.
You can freeze it after baking and completely cooling it.
If you prefer, you can enrich the batter with chopped nuts like almonds, walnuts, or hazelnuts!

