name:
Potato Gnocchi Without Flour
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Potato starch: ¾cup(100 g)
Saffron: 2bags- (powdered)
Peeled almonds: ¼cup(40 g)
Water: 1cup(250 g)
Cornstarch: 1 ¾tsp(5 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Broccoli: 2cups(200 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 1 ½cup(100 g)
Cranberries: ⅛cup(20 g)- dried
Lemon peel: to taste- to grate
Pink peppercorn: to taste
Ground pepper: to taste- black and white
Water: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 20 min. resting time for the dough

instructions:
Chef Pietro Leemann guides us in preparing a recipe that highlights the principles of healthy and natural cooking: potato gnocchi without flour. An evolution of the classic gnocchi that looks to the East, with its flavors, colors, and textures, as detailed by the chef who entertains us by revealing the reasons behind the choice of a particular ingredient or cooking method. The use of potato starch gives the dough a particular gummy texture known as mochi , characteristic of many Japanese dishes. It is balanced by roasted vegetables, in this case, mushrooms and broccoli, which add the umami component to the dish, and a creamy almond cream, rich in flavor and protein. A perfect balance completed by the acidic note of dried cranberries, great for digestion and a source of energy. Finally, the colors: the yellow of saffron and the vibrant hues of the vegetables and peppercorns make the potato gnocchi without flour truly irresistible! A vegetarian, lactose-free, and gluten-free recipe that represents the beauty of a simple and mindful way of cooking, attentive to both taste and well-being.
Discover more delicious Gnocchi recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the potato gnocchi without flour, first prepare the gnocchi dough: boil the potatoes starting from cold water for 30-40 minutes depending on the size . To check if they are cooked, pierce them with a fork, and if you reach the center easily, they are ready. Peel them and pass them through a sieve . Add the potato starch to the still warm mash .
Also add the saffron powder , then knead thoroughly until you obtain a smooth and evenly colored mixture ; this way, you will achieve the right consistency. Let the dough rest at room temperature for 20 minutes.
Transfer the dough onto a wooden work surface, without flouring it, and form thick logs of about 1 inch . Dust them with a bit of starch to create a light layer and cut them into pieces about 1 1/5 inches long . Place them on a tray lined with parchment paper and set aside while you continue with the recipe .
Proceed to prepare the almond cream: in a blender, pour the water and almonds , blend for at least a minute . Strain the obtained almond milk with a fine mesh strainer to separate the liquid part from the granular part, achieving a smooth result. Help yourself by pressing the mixture with the back of a ladle or spoon . The pulp that remains in the strainer should not be discarded, it can be used as suggested at the end of the recipe.
Pour the obtained liquid into a saucepan and bring to a boil, then add the cornstarch , which you have diluted with a little water. Also add the oil , salt, and white pepper. Stir with a whisk to combine, turn off the heat and set aside .
Now focus on the vegetables. Clean the broccoli and divide them into florets of the same size . Heat about 1 1/2 tablespoons of oil in a pan, add the broccoli and salt. Cover with a lid and let roast on low heat for about ten minutes, without stirring; halfway through cooking add a splash of water to facilitate cooking . At the end of cooking, remove the lid to let the remaining water evaporate.
Clean the mushrooms and cut them in half so they are equally sized . In another pan, heat a generous swirl of oil, add the mushrooms and sauté them for about 5 minutes on high heat . Salt only at the end of cooking.
Put a pot with plenty of water on the stove to cook the gnocchi. Meanwhile, pass the pink peppercorns through a coarse mesh strainer: collect the aromatic peel on parchment paper . The spicier inner part will remain to be set aside for other uses. Also chop the white and black peppercorns with a knife and the dried cranberries .
Once the water has come to a boil, add the salt and cook the gnocchi for about a minute and a half . While the gnocchi are cooking, sauté the cranberries in a pan with a drizzle of oil along with the chopped pepper. After a couple of minutes, deglaze with a ladle of cooking water .
Drain the gnocchi into the pan and sauté them with the cranberries , while reheating the vegetables separately .
You are ready to plate: pour the almond cream on the bottom of the plate , then add the gnocchi , the mushrooms, and the broccoli .
Finish with the pink pepper peel and grated lemon zest . Your potato gnocchi without flour are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the potato gnocchi without flour right after they are prepared to enjoy them at their best.
You can prepare the vegetables in advance and reheat them just before plating.
The dough can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, as well as the uncooked gnocchi, taking care to cover them with plastic wrap or a cloth. Alternatively, you can also freeze the uncooked gnocchi.
To make the potato gnocchi without flour, it's preferable to choose starchy potatoes; the best potatoes are found during the fall and winter months. Using rice flour instead of potato starch will result in a gummier texture.
You can replace champignon mushrooms with porcini, shiitake mushrooms, or another type of your preference. Remember that mushrooms should not be salted at the beginning of cooking to keep them firm. They also require a high initial cooking temperature and a lot of oil or a fat to conduct heat and flavor.
Dried cranberries provide an acidic and delicately bitter note to the dish: alternatively, you can use raisins, apricots, or dates.
The solid part that remains in the strainer after filtering the almond milk is called almond okara and can be used in many ways in the kitchen, for example, to enrich bread, patties, and desserts!
Do not replace the cornstarch to make the almond cream, as, for example, potato starch would make the mixture sticky instead of creamy.

