name:
Gluten-free focaccia with aromatic herbs
ingredients:
Gluten free flour mix: 4cups(500 g)- for pizzas and focaccias
Water: 2cups(450 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 5tbsp(70 g)
Gluten free fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(15 g)
Honey: 1tsp
Rosemary: to taste
Sage: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Fine salt: 4 ½tsp(25 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Water: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Maldon salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note plus rising times (2.5 hours)

instructions:
If you want to prepare a simple and tasty appetizer, the gluten-free focaccia with aromatic herbs is just the recipe you were looking for! Soft, flavorful, and suitable for everyone, perfect to serve with cold cuts and cheeses, to enjoy with your friends or to fill for a quick lunch! The Gluten-free focaccia , as good as the classic focaccia , is excellent at any time of the day and making it at home with our recipe is very simple. Gluten-free flour, compared to white flour, is usually more difficult to work with but we will show you a technique to manage it easily: by slowly pouring the water you will allow this flour to hydrate and the dough to take shape. Just one rise and in a few hours your focaccia will be ready to be baked... you will smell the aroma thanks to the addition of the aromatic herbs! Discover also these gluten-free recipes:
To make the gluten-free focaccia with aromatic herbs, first prepare the flavored oil, preferably a few hours in advance. In a saucepan, pour plenty of oil and add some sprigs of rosemary . As soon as it starts to sizzle, turn off the heat. Leave the rosemary to infuse for a few hours (or overnight). Meanwhile, make the dough: chop all the aromatic herbs, then transfer them to a bowl where you have put the gluten-free flour . Add the crumbled fresh yeast .
Pour in a portion of the water and start mixing. Gradually add more water ; don't worry if the dough seems to crumble, it's normal as it is made with gluten-free flour. As the flour absorbs the water, it will become more compact. Finish adding the water slowly and mix vigorously.
Add the honey and, in several additions, also the oil . Mix well with a wooden spoon .
Add the salt and mix once again until it is absorbed. You should obtain a smooth and creamy dough . Transfer it to a 12x16 inch baking tray lined with parchment paper, greased with a little water and a little oil .
With greased hands, gently spread the dough until it completely fills the tray . Cover with cling film and let it rise in a turned-off oven with the light on for about 2-2.5 hours .
After this time, drizzle the surface with oil and water , then add a pinch of salt. Gently press your fingers into the dough to create the characteristic dimples .
Bake in a preheated convection oven at 425°F for about 30 minutes, until it is well golden. Then take the focaccia out of the oven and let it cool slightly. Transfer the gluten-free focaccia with aromatic herbs to a cutting board, generously brush with the rosemary-flavored oil , add some Maldon salt, and serve it cut into squares !
The gluten-free focaccia with aromatic herbs can be stored at room temperature well covered for 1-2 days. You can freeze it after baking.
Create the mix with your favorite aromatic herbs: it's preferable to use fresh ones, as dried ones might end up slightly bitter!

