name:
Meatloaf stuffed with spinach and caciocavallo
ingredients:
Beef: 1.5lbs(650 g)- ground
Pork: 0.9lb(400 g)- ground
Eggs: 1
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)- (to grate)
Bread: 1 ½cup(100 g)- crumb
Parsley: 1bunch
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste- (to grate)
Mustard: 2tsp(10 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 6.3oz(180 g)
Spinach: 17cups(500 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Breadcrumbs: 1.3tbsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Eggs: 5
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- new
Rosemary: 1sprig
Sage: 1sprig
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Thyme: 1sprig

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 1 h 10 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
The meatloaf stuffed with spinach and caciocavallo is a variant of the classic meatloaf . There are a thousand and more ways to reinvent this recipe, so we decided to offer you a version with a delicious heart of spinach, boiled eggs, and melted caciocavallo cheese. A truly original way to stuff it and bring a different preparation to the table than usual! We chose to accompany this main course with roasted potatoes, a side dish that always pleases everyone. This time we chose baby potatoes, but if you can't find them, you can also use regular potatoes by cutting them into rather large wedges! Many aromatic herbs will give the dish a really unique aroma, and thanks to this recipe, we can guarantee that Sunday lunch will be a real success! Here are other variations of stuffed meatloaf to try:

To prepare the meatloaf stuffed with spinach and caciocavallo, start with the spinach: pour a drizzle of oil into a pan, add a garlic clove , and let it brown over low heat. Now add the spinach , a pinch of salt, and let them cook for about 5 minutes until wilted, then remove the garlic clove .
Transfer them to a colander to remove excess water and let them cool. Meanwhile, prepare the eggs needed for the filling. Place them in a pot with cold water and once boiling, let them cook for about 7 minutes, then cool them under running water and set them aside.
Transfer the spinach to a cutting board, chop them coarsely , and place them in a bowl. Add the breadcrumbs and mix well. Now take the caciocavallo cheese and cut it into thin slices .
Cut them in half . You can now start preparing the meatloaf mixture. Combine the two types of meat in a bowl and add the grated bread crumb . Add the chopped parsley and mustard .
Add salt, pepper , a pinch of nutmeg , and the grated Grana cheese .
Pour in the previously beaten egg and start kneading vigorously with your hands . You should obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture . Place it in the refrigerator to rest for 10 minutes.
Then lay out a sheet of plastic wrap on a surface and transfer the mixture onto it. Flatten it with your hands and gradually spread it out until you get a rectangle 3/4 inch thick . Now place the spinach in the center and spread them out, leaving a bit of space from the edge .
Place the caciocavallo cheese on the spinach , leaving a space in the center to place the eggs . After placing the eggs inside, start rolling it up with the help of the plastic wrap .
Form a compact cylinder and tighten it well, using the plastic wrap . Transfer it to a tray and let it rest for 15 minutes in the refrigerator. Meanwhile, prepare the side dish. Transfer the potatoes to a pot, cover with water and bring to a boil. Let them cook for 5 minutes, then drain and let them cool slightly.
At this point, transfer the potatoes to a cutting board and cut them in half lengthwise . Gradually place them in a bowl, then season with salt, pepper , and oil. Add rosemary, sage, bay leaf, and thyme , mix well, and set aside.
On a baking tray lined with parchment paper, place the potatoes , spreading them out to leave a space in the center , where you'll place the meatloaf .
Brush the meatloaf with a little oil . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40 minutes, then activate the grill mode and cook for another 10-12 minutes. Remove from the oven , wait a few minutes before slicing and serving it .
You can store the stuffed meatloaf in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
You can use other vegetables instead of spinach, such as grilled eggplant, zucchini, or Swiss chard. Instead of caciocavallo, use another stringy cheese, like smoked cheese.

