name:
Crespelle with speck, radicchio and fontina
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1cup(230 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Eggs: 2- small
Fine salt: to taste
Butter: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Speck: 6.3oz(180 g)- Alto Adige PGI (12 slices)
Radicchio: 10 ½cups(320 g)- Treviso
Fontina cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- to grate
Speck: 1.8oz(50 g)- Alto Adige PGI

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Note + 30 min. of resting the batter in the refrigerator

instructions:
Are crepes your passion? We tempt your appetite with a truly tantalizing version: crespelle with speck, radicchio, and fontina, a tasty first course with bold flavors. The Savory crepes with chanterelles and bacon are filled with a cheese and vegetable filling and the extra touch of Speck Alto Adige IGP, which is also added at the end. Thanks to the gratin in the oven with butter and Parmigiano Reggiano DOP you will get a delicious crust and an irresistibly stringy effect... so get to work and serve the crespelle with speck radicchio and fontina while they are still nice and hot!
Come and discover other appetizing recipes based on crespelle:
To make crespelle with speck, radicchio, and fontina, first prepare the crepe batter: pour the eggs and milk into a bowl , add the melted and cooled butter. Mix well, then add the sifted flour and a pinch of salt. Mix thoroughly with a whisk to avoid forming lumps , then cover with plastic wrap and let rest in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes.
In the meantime, wash the radicchio and cut it into pieces . In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil with the garlic, then add the radicchio , salt, pepper, and cook for 5 minutes over medium heat . Turn off the heat, cover with a lid and set aside.
Proceed to cook the crepes: heat and slightly butter a 9.5-inch crepe pan (or a thick-bottomed non-stick pan), then pour a ladle of batter in the center and use the appropriate tool to spread it over the entire surface (or rotate the pan). When the edges of the crepe start to lift, use a spatula to gently flip it to the other side . Each crepe will cook for a total of a couple of minutes: one and a half minutes on one side and 30 seconds on the other. As they are cooked, stack the crepes on a plate and let cool , then cover with plastic wrap to prevent them from drying out.
At this point, grate the fontina with a large-hole grater and proceed to assemble the crespelle. Fill half a crepe with radicchio and a generous handful of grated fontina , then place 3 slices of Speck .
Fold the crepe first in half and then into quarters to form a triangle ; proceed this way with all the others. Once ready, place the stuffed crespelle in a buttered baking dish, brush them with a little more melted butter and sprinkle with grated Parmesan . Bake for 5 minutes in grill mode at 464°F.
In the meantime, cut the Speck into strips . Heat a non-stick pan well, then add the Speck and brown it over medium-high heat for 3-4 minutes .
Once gratinated, take the crespelle out of the oven , season with a grind of pepper, and garnish with the crispy Speck . Your crespelle with speck, radicchio, and fontina are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the crespelle with speck, radicchio, and fontina on the same day.
If necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator for up to 2 days in an airtight container.
If you prefer, you can replace the fontina with another melty cheese like scamorza!

