name:
Cauliflower in Batter
ingredients:
Cauliflower: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Water: 1cup(220 g)- at room temperature
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.2oz(5 g)
Brown sugar: 1tsp(5 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + the resting time for the batter

instructions:
A vegetable that should never be missing in winter: cauliflower. Versatile in the kitchen and with many beneficial properties, this white ingredient with globular inflorescences... let's be honest, it's not everyone's favorite! So here's a recipe to make it loved by both adults and children, serving it as a tasty appetizer or a rich side dish: cauliflower in batter. The tender florets are wrapped in a creamy batter without eggs, which once immersed in boiling oil, thanks to thermal shock, will become very crispy and delicate; it will allow the cauliflower to release its best flavors and all its softness. Cauliflower in batter will win everyone over... all that's left is to try it and wait to receive the best compliments. Once you've convinced everyone, you can try other delicious cauliflower recipes: try the gratinated version , creamy and tasty!
Come and discover other tasty recipes based on broccoli and cauliflower:
To prepare the cauliflower in batter at home, first dissolve the yeast in 1.4 oz of water by mixing with the whisk . Then, in a large bowl, pour the flour and the remaining water.
Add the dissolved yeast as well . Mix well with the whisk and once you have a smooth batter, add sugar and salt and mix again.
Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature for at least half an hour. Clean the cauliflower by removing the outer leaves and the central stalk. Then separate the florets trying to get them medium-small in size, so they will cook better.
Heat vegetable oil in a tall pot to 340°F. Retrieve the batter and dip the florets into it before plunging them, a few at a time, into the hot oil .
Keep an eye on them with the help of a slotted spoon and let them brown evenly; less than two minutes will suffice. Drain on paper towels and sprinkle with salt. The cauliflower in batter is ready to be enjoyed .
We recommend consuming the cauliflower in batter immediately.
Accompany with something defatting and refreshing: a yogurt sauce or a nice bitter chicory salad dressed with vinegar. Many versions suggest blanching the cauliflower before dipping them in the batter and frying them, but with small florets, this step is absolutely unnecessary. Brown sugar can be replaced with regular sugar, it changes almost nothing, just slightly the color and even more slightly the caramel hint. You can add herbs, pepper, and spices to the batter to your liking. If you prefer to prepare a lighter batter without yeast, you can make it with 1 cup of flour, 7 oz of cold sparkling water, and salt. You can use the discarded stalk to make a delicious cream soup.

