name:
Pasta with Chickpea Ragù
ingredients:
Fresh-Pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Precooked chickpeas: 1 ½cup(300 g)- (drained weight)
Tomato purée: 2cups(500 g)
Carrots: 3
Yellow onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Rosemary: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
While it's true that the traditional meat ragù is untouchable, it's also true that today there are many vegetarian variants to satisfy all tastes and needs, from vegetable ragù to legume-based ones: after trying ragù with lentils , now it's time for pasta with chickpea ragù! A very simple recipe made with pre-cooked chickpeas, which you can easily replace with dried legumes. The tomato-based sauce is flavored with a classic soffritto and seasoned with rosemary and bay leaves... few ingredients for a nutritious and wholesome first course, perfect for dinner for both young and old!
Did you like the idea of pasta with chickpea ragù? Also discover these recipes:
To make the pasta with chickpea ragù, first drain the pre-cooked chickpeas , then place them on a clean cloth and rub them gently to remove the skins .
Now peel and finely chop the onion , celery, and carrot . Pour the chopped vegetables into a pan with a drizzle of oil .
When the soffritto is wilted, add the chickpeas and rosemary . Sauté the chickpeas for 5 minutes, then remove the rosemary and add the bay leaves .
Add the tomato sauce , salt , and cook for about 20 minutes, until the sauce has reduced. In the meantime, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the pasta .
Drain the pasta into a bowl, add the sauce and mix well . Your pasta with chickpea ragù is ready to be served !
Pasta with chickpea ragù can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
It's possible to freeze the chickpea ragù.
We chose to remove the skins from the chickpeas to make them more digestible, but you can omit this step if you prefer.
If you're using dried chickpeas, soak them for 12 hours and cook them in water for at least 90 minutes, then proceed with the recipe.


