name:
Savory Pie with Romanesco Cauliflower and Potatoes
ingredients:
Flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)- type 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- cold
Fine salt: to taste
Romanesco cauliflower: 4cups(400 g)- frozen
Potatoes: 0.55lb(250 g)
Fontina cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Shallot: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Note + the dough resting time in the fridge (at least 30 min.)

instructions:
The Romanesco cauliflower is a type of broccoli characterized by beautiful light green pyramid-shaped florets. Excellent as a side dish or to dress up a pasta , this time it becomes the protagonist of a delightful savory pie with Romanesco cauliflower and potatoes! The shortcrust pastry shell holds a soft and tasty filling, enriched with melting cheese. A different idea to serve for an informal appetizer or as a vegetarian main course. Follow our directions and discover how easy it is to make the savory pie with Romanesco cauliflower and potatoes!
To make the savory pie with Romanesco cauliflower and potatoes, first prepare the shortcrust pastry: put the flour and oil in a bowl , add the cold water and mix to combine everything .
Add salt and work the mixture for a few more minutes, first in the bowl and then on the work surface. Once you have obtained a homogeneous dough, wrap it in plastic wrap and leave to rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes .
In the meantime, prepare the ingredients for the filling: clean and thinly slice the shallot , then peel and also cut the potatoes into thin slices . Finally, grate the fontina cheese with a large-hole grater .
Put the shallot in a pan with a drizzle of oil and sauté on low heat for about 5 minutes, then add the potatoes and cook for another 5 minutes. At this point, add the Romanesco cauliflower florets .
Season with salt and pepper and cook for another 5 minutes on high heat. Turn off the heat and let it cool slightly . Meanwhile, take the dough and roll it out on a lightly floured surface to a thickness of about 1/8 inch .
Roll the dough around the rolling pin and lay it inside a rectangular mold measuring approximately 13.5x4 inches, make it adhere well to the base and sides, and remove the excess with a small knife . Spread about two-thirds of the grated fontina cheese on the bottom .
Fill the shortcrust shell with the now cooled potato and cauliflower filling and finish with the remaining cheese . Bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for 30 minutes, then switch to grill mode at 445°F for another 5 minutes until golden brown. Once cooked, remove from the oven and let cool. Your savory pie with Romanesco cauliflower and potatoes is ready to be served warm or at room temperature .
The savory pie with Romanesco cauliflower and potatoes can be stored for 2 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container.
You can flavor the filling of the savory pie with aromatic herbs such as parsley, oregano, or thyme.

