name:
Roman-style Meatballs
ingredients:
Ground beef: 0.7lb(300 g)
Ground veal: 7oz(200 g)
Ground pork: 3.5oz(100 g)
Mortadella: 0.7oz(20 g)
Bread: 3cups(200 g)- (only crumbs)
Parsley: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Garlic: ½clove
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 1
Egg yolks: 1
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Celery: 3ribs
Carrots: 2
Onions: 2
Peeled tomatoes: 6.6lbs(2.5 kg)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 5
Cost: Average

instructions:
Meatballs are one of the most delicious dishes ever! Some prefer them fried, while others love meatballs in sauce ! If you're among the latter, you'll appreciate our Roman-style meatballs! To make the mixture, there are 3 types of meat and bologna, a mix that will give you superior flavor and super soft texture. This is also thanks to the addition of bread crumbs which are essential. Aromas and cheeses will make these meatballs really tasty! No frying or browning is needed; just immerse the meatballs in boiling sauce and cook them for a long time so the sauce absorbs all the flavor. Discover how simple it is to prepare these Roman-style meatballs... and if there's some sauce left over, use it to dress pasta!
Also discover:
To prepare Roman-style meatballs, first make the sauce. Start with the sauté: peel and dice the carrots , peel the onions and slice them thinly . Wash the celery well and dice it small .
In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, add the sautéed vegetables , and stir. Let it brown for about ten minutes and in the meantime, blend the tomatoes with an immersion blender .
As soon as the vegetables are wilted , add the blended tomatoes , some water , and season with salt.
Cover with a lid and let it cook for 30 minutes, from boiling, over moderate heat. Meanwhile, soak the bread in a bowl . Now prepare the meatball mixture. Pour the 3 types of ground meat into a bowl .
Add the chopped parsley , the egg , the yolk, and the chopped bologna . Soak the bread crumbs with some water .
Crumble it with your hands and add it to the bowl . Also, add the grated Pecorino and grated Parmigiano Reggiano PDO.
Crush the garlic inside , add salt , and nutmeg .
Knead everything with your hands until you get a homogeneous mixture . Now form the meatballs, taking about 3.5 oz of mixture and place them on a tray .
You will get about ten meatballs . After half an hour, immerse the meatballs in the sauce , so they don’t overlap .
Shake the pan, without stirring. Cover with a lid, without closing it completely (you can place a wooden spoon between the pot and lid) , and cook for about 40 minutes. The sauce should be well thickened . Roman-style meatballs are ready to serve .
Roman-style meatballs can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
We recommend making the meatballs this size; if made smaller, the cooking time should be reduced, and the sauce might not thicken enough.

