name:
Green gnocchetti with gorgonzola
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Spinach: 14.1oz(400 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Gorgonzola cheese: 14oz(400 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 1 h 5 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The Green gnocchetti are delightful nuggets of spinach and potatoes. But how to dress them to enhance their taste? Let's prepare the green gnocchetti with gorgonzola, a creamy and delightful first course! The gnocchi are prepared just like potato gnocchi , but chopped spinach is also added inside, which will give them this typical green color. Once cooked, they will turn out soft, yet firm, and are suitable for many combinations. Today we show you one of our favorites; you just need to melt the gorgonzola with a little cooking water, and even without cream, you will achieve a truly creamy sauce. Once the gnocchi float to the surface, drain them and toss them in the sauce... a quick toss, a few thyme leaves, and your dish will be ready to enjoy! Also discover:
To prepare the green gnocchetti, start by cooking the potatoes. Choose them all the same size and place them in a pot with cold water . Cook from boiling for 30-40 minutes. Meanwhile, cook the spinach. Immerse them in boiling, lightly salted water and cook for about 5 minutes, until wilted. Transfer them to a colander, placed over a bowl .
Squeeze them well and transfer them to a cutting board; then chop them finely with a knife . Transfer them to a bowl and set them aside. At this point, once the potatoes are cooked, drain them and let them cool slightly. Pour the all-purpose flour onto a work surface and mash the potatoes on top ; also add the spinach .
Now knead quickly with your hands. You should obtain a homogeneous dough . Take a portion using a knife or dough scraper and with your hands, form a cylinder on a work surface ; it should be about 3/4 inch thick. Using semolina, flour the cylinder of dough well, then use the dough scraper (or a knife) to cut it into pieces about 1/2 inch wide . If necessary, add a little more semolina to prevent them from sticking.
Now using a gnocchi board, or the tines of a fork, shape the gnocchi . Always add a bit of semolina to prevent them from sticking and arrange them on a tray lined with a cloth, lightly floured with semolina . Put a pot filled with water on the heat, salted to taste, which will be used for cooking the gnocchi. In the meantime, cut the gorgonzola into cubes .
In a large pan, pour the gorgonzola , add a ladle of the now hot water , and stir to melt it. Then add another ladle of hot water .
Stir until completely melted and add the thyme leaves . Now you can cook the gnocchi by immersing a few at a time in the boiling water . As soon as they float to the surface, you can drain them using a slotted spoon .
Transfer them to the sauce , add plenty of black pepper , mix, and serve your green gnocchetti with gorgonzola !
Spinach gnocchetti can be prepared 2-3 hours in advance. Keep them on the tray with the floured cloth and cover them with another cloth. If it's not excessively hot, store them at room temperature.
Alternatively, you can freeze them, first on a tray and then transfer them to a food bag. We recommend cooking the gnocchi without defrosting them first.
Once cooked and dressed, we recommend consuming them immediately, or storing them in the fridge for a maximum of one day.
If you prefer a more uniform color, you can blend the spinach, always after squeezing them well.
Do not overwork the dough, otherwise, it will tend to absorb more flour, and the gnocchetti will be hard.
You can flavor the dough with some nutmeg.
For the sauce: if you prefer, you can add a bit of cream, reducing the amount of water. You can also add walnuts or other nuts.

