name:
Super Soft Focaccia (dough with potatoes)
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Potatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)- warm
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.7cup(150 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.4oz(10 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Coarse salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + rising time (at least 3-4 h)

instructions:
The super soft focaccia (dough with potatoes) is the soft focaccia par excellence, an even more irresistible version of the classic Potato Focaccia ! Like in the Apulian focaccia with onions , in this case, the dough is enriched with the addition of boiled potatoes for a particularly soft, thick, and tasty result. Being very easy to prepare, it is a focaccia accessible to everyone, and even those not used to kneading will experience the pleasure of sinking their fingers into well-leavened dough! Great to enjoy on its own, perhaps still warm, the super soft focaccia (dough with potatoes) is also perfect for filling with a variety of ingredients like ham, cheese, and vegetables.
Discover other focaccia recipes to make and share at home:

To make the super soft focaccia (dough with potatoes), first boil the potatoes starting from cold water for about 30-40 minutes, or until they are soft enough to pierce with a fork . Once cooked, mash the potatoes while still hot in a large bowl, without peeling them : the skin will remain in the potato masher .
Add the salt and the oil , then mix well with a spoon .
In a small bowl, mix the crumbled fresh yeast in the warm milk , then pour the liquid into the potato mixture and stir.
Finally, add the bread flour and mix it into the dough first with a spoon and then with your hands .
Continue to work on the countertop until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough . Place the dough in the bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let it rise for 2-3 hours at room temperature, preferably in the oven with the light on .
After the rising time, turn the dough out onto a lightly floured workplace , then transfer it to a non-stick pan with a diameter of 10 inches (26 cm) (alternatively, you can grease it with olive oil). Gently stretch the dough with your fingers , cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for another hour .
At this point, season the focaccia with plenty of olive oil and press your fingers into the dough to form the classic dimples . Finally, sprinkle the surface with coarse salt .
Bake the focaccia in a preheated static oven at 356°F (180°C) for about 40 minutes . When it's nicely golden, remove from the oven and let it cool in the pan . Unmold and enjoy your super soft focaccia (dough with potatoes) !
The super soft focaccia (dough with potatoes) can be stored for about 2 days in a food bag.
You can freeze it after it has been baked and completely cooled.
If you prefer, you can make the dough using a stand mixer equipped with a hook.

