name:
Rustic Pappardelle with Sausage and Leeks
ingredients:
Egg pappardelle pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Sausage: 0.7lb(300 g)
Leeks: 7.1oz(200 g)
Red wine: 1.5oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Black pepper: 1pinch
Fine salt: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2oz(60 g)
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
There are ingredients that are good on their own but even tastier when combined and used to create flavorful dishes to share. Sausage, for example, together with leek, can create a first course with a rustic and exquisite taste, like pappardelle with sausage and leeks. A first course with a bold and authentic flavor: the rough and porous pappardelle are perfect for capturing the rich seasoning, while the delicate notes of the leeks embrace the succulent sausage meat... a combination of flavors that can also be proposed as an appetizer, for example with the recipe for Leeks with Ham . Tasty and enveloping, this pasta with sausage is quick to prepare, perfect for unexpected guests or a family dinner. Serve it with a full-bodied red wine and indulge in the pleasure of these pappardelle with sausage and leeks! Here are more sausage recipes to try:

To prepare the rustic pappardelle with sausage and leeks, start with the sausage. Remove the casing and cut it into chunks about 3/4 inch . Now, take care of the chili pepper: remove the seeds and cut it into strips .
Take the leek and remove the outer leaves . Cut it in half and then into thin strips .
Pour the oil into a pan, add the chili pepper, and let it brown. Add the sausage pieces and let them brown over medium-high heat, adding some fresh thyme . Deglaze with red wine and let the alcohol evaporate completely.
Add the leek and cook for a few more minutes until wilted . In the meantime, cook the pappardelle in boiling water, salted to taste .
When they are cooked, drain them and transfer them directly to the pan . Add the grated Parmesan , a ladle of the pasta cooking water, a bit more thyme , and toss to mix the pappardelle well with the seasoning. Serve the rustic pappardelle with sausage and leeks, adding a grind of black pepper and some thyme leaves.
The rustic pappardelle with sausage and leeks can be kept in the refrigerator for up to one day.
For a vegetarian version, you can use cardoncelli mushrooms instead of sausage.
For a creamier result, you can dissolve the Parmesan in a tablespoon of the pasta cooking water and then incorporate the creamy mixture into the pasta before serving.

