name:
Paccheri with pistachio pesto, sausage, and provola
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 6.3oz(180 g)
Sausage: 6.3oz(180 g)
Provola cheese: 6.25oz(180 g)
White wine: ½glass
Pistachios: 0.8cup(100 g)- salted, shelled
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(50 g)
Basil: 2tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
Among the types of pasta, paccheri are perhaps the most loved because they can perfectly capture the sauce, as in this case: paccheri with pistachio pesto, sausage, and provola! A delightful first course, with an extra kick of flavor, thanks to the creaminess given by the pistachio pesto and the melty touch of cheese. If the pasta with pistachio pesto and the pasta with sausage alone are already a guarantee of success, the paccheri with pistachio pesto, sausage, and provola will make you win directly at the table!
To make paccheri with pistachio pesto, sausage, and provola, first prepare the pistachio pesto: bring a small pot of water to a boil, add the shelled pistachios and blanch them for a minute, just enough time to soften the skin. Drain the pistachios on a clean cloth, then rub them to remove the skin .
Set aside some chopped pistachios for decoration and transfer the rest to a mortar . Add the basil leaves, previously washed and dried , and crush with the pestle to make a paste .
Add the oil , pepper, and a splash of cold water , then crush again until you get a soft and creamy mixture . Adjust the salt to taste.
Meanwhile, put a pot of water on to boil for the pasta; once boiling, salt the water and cook the paccheri for 13 minutes . Meanwhile, cut the provola into cubes of about 0.6 inches . Remove the casing from the sausage, then cut it into pieces and form small balls .
Brown the sausage in a large pan with a drizzle of oil , then deglaze with the white wine . Once the pasta is cooked, drain the paccheri and transfer them to the pan .
Add a few ladles of cooking water and finish cooking the pasta for a couple of minutes. Turn off the heat, then add the pistachio pesto and the provola cubes .
Mix well to combine everything , then plate. Garnish with the chopped pistachios kept aside and scent with a few basil leaves. Your paccheri with pistachio pesto, sausage, and provola are ready to be served !
The paccheri with pistachio pesto, sausage, and provola can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
For a bolder flavor, you can add a clove of garlic to the pistachio pesto!

