name:
Pistachio Donuts
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Pistachio flour: ½cup(50 g)
Sugar: 10tsp(40 g)
Water: (160 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 3tsp(15 g)
Eggs: 4.2oz(120 g)- (about 2)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste
Pistachio cream: 2.1cups(500 g)- spreadable
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus rising times (2 and a half hours)

instructions:
Sweet, fluffy, and round, for breakfast or any other time of the day, bomboloni are a true delight for all ages! Have you ever tried our pistachio bomboloni? If the answer is no, then it’s time to catch up and get to work... in just 3 hours you can enjoy all their deliciousness and we are sure you will fall in love with them at the first bite! Usually filled with cream, or in the case of krapfen with jam, the rule is one: bomboloni should be full and explode bite after bite! In the pistachio variant we offer today, we added pistachio flour directly into the dough, and once fried, we filled them with a delicious pistachio cream , ready-made or homemade! We can assure you that it will be impossible to resist! Discover also these sweet leavened pastries:
To prepare the pistachio bomboloni, pour the flour , pistachio flour , and sugar into the bowl of a stand mixer.
Add the salt and crumbled fresh yeast with your hands . Add part of the water and start kneading with the hook .
Add the slightly beaten eggs, pouring them in a thin stream , and slowly add the remaining water . Work until you get a homogeneous dough; when it detaches from the sides of the mixer, add the butter little by little .
Continue kneading until it is completely absorbed, and the dough is well-stranded . Transfer it to a work surface and cover with a bowl . Let rest for 5 minutes.
Fold the dough to give it strength, then form a ball and transfer it to a bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for 2 hours at room temperature.
When the dough has risen , transfer it to a slightly floured work surface . Roll it out with a rolling pin to obtain a thickness of 0.4 inches.
Using a 3.5-inch round cutter, cut out 10 disks , gently lift them with your hands , and transfer them to a tray lined with squares of parchment paper. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for another 30 minutes. Do not discard the dough scraps, but cut them and place them on another tray. You can fry them too.
When the disks are well risen , heat plenty of vegetable oil in a pot, bringing it to a temperature of 320-330°F. As soon as it reaches the temperature, lift the first bombolone, also lifting the parchment paper. Immerse it in the hot oil and after a few seconds, use tongs to remove the parchment paper that will have detached from the dough .
Cook a couple of bomboloni at a time to not lower the temperature too much. Pour hot oil over the top of the bomboloni ; this way, they will puff up better. When the bottom side is well browned, turn them. Let the other side cook as well, then lift them with a skimmer and transfer them to a tray lined with paper towels .
Let the bomboloni cool slightly and fill them with pistachio spread, which you will have transferred for convenience into a piping bag . Dust with powdered sugar and serve your bomboloni .
We recommend consuming the bomboloni as soon as they are ready, or within a few hours.
If you don't have a food thermometer, you can use a ladle. Immerse the handle part in the oil, if the first bubbles start forming, you can cook the bomboloni.

