name:
Upside-down Mandarin Cake
ingredients:
Mandarin oranges: 1.4oz(40 g)- (weight with peel)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (2 medium)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(55 g)
Cornstarch: 7tbsp(55 g)
Vegetable oil: 0.3cup(70 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Baking powder: 1 ¾tsp(7 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Mandarin oranges: to taste- 3 or 4 depending on the size
Sugar: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
What is better than the scent of freshly peeled mandarins? Combine it with the aroma of a homemade cake and you have the wonderful upside-down mandarin cake. An incredibly easy dessert to make... as soon as you flip the cake, you will immediately fall in love with its spectacular effect. The upside-down mandarin cake is perfect to serve at breakfast or as a snack, remaining soft and moist at just the right point. Little effort and big payoff for a sweet treat to enjoy with the whole family. Here are other "upside-down" versions not to miss:

To prepare the upside-down mandarin cake, first peel the mandarins needed for the decoration . Then cut them in half. Grease the bottom of an 8-inch springform pan, line it with parchment paper, and close the springform. Sprinkle with 2 tablespoons of sugar .
Arrange the mandarins inside with the cut side down on the parchment paper . At this point, sift flour, starch , and baking powder into a large bowl.
Add the sugar , a pinch of salt , and mix. Set the dry ingredients aside. Pour into the bowl of an immersion blender a well-washed, unpeeled mandarin cut into pieces. Add the vegetable oil .
Now add the eggs and blend everything until you obtain a smooth, fairly liquid cream . For safety, strain the mixture to remove any seeds.
Then transfer it into the bowl with the dry ingredients and mix until you obtain a homogeneous mixture . Pour into the pan .
The batter should completely cover the mandarins . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40-45 minutes. Remove the cake from the oven . Let it cool slightly, flip it onto a plate, and gently remove the parchment paper before serving !
The upside-down mandarin cake keeps in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
Instead of oil, you can use 8 tablespoons of butter, previously melted and allowed to cool slightly.


