name:
Cacciatore-style Meatballs
ingredients:
Ground veal: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Breadcrumbs: 0.8cup(100 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- (to be grated)
Eggs: 3
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: to taste- (to chop)
Fine salt: to taste
Tomato purée: 2cups(500 g)
Onions: 1
Carrots: 1
Celery: ½rib
Red wine: ¼cup(50 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Cacciatore-style meatballs are born from the union of two timeless home recipes: meatballs and chicken cacciatore ! Made with veal mince, these soft meatballs in sauce are further flavored with a classic sauté of celery, carrots, and onions and a splash of red wine. An essential sprig of rosemary evokes the aroma of this typical second course, to which we have also decided to add some black olives for an extra burst of flavor. Incredibly appetizing in their simplicity, the cacciatore-style meatballs will make the whole family happy, especially when it’s time to mop up the sauce!
Don't miss out on these meatball recipes:

To make the cacciatore-style meatballs, first prepare the meatball mixture: pour the minced meat and eggs into a large bowl, then add the grated Grana Padano DOP , crushed garlic , and a pinch of salt.
Add the chopped parsley , breadcrumbs , and milk .
Knead with your hands until you get a soft and homogeneous mixture . Shape the meatballs by rounding them between your palms; with these quantities, you'll get about 15 .
Set the meatballs aside and prepare the sauce: finely chop the onion , carrot , and celery .
Heat a swirl of oil in a large pan, then add the chopped onion, celery , and carrot . Sauté for a few minutes, then place the meatballs in the pan .
Brown the meatballs, gently turning them on both sides . When they are golden, deglaze with red wine and let the alcohol evaporate completely, then add the sprig of rosemary .
Finally, pour in the tomato puree , salt, and pepper . If you like, you can also add black olives .
Lower the heat, cover with the lid, and cook for 20-25 minutes . After the cooking time , plate and serve your cacciatore-style meatballs immediately !
The cacciatore-style meatballs can be stored in the refrigerator for about 2 days, in an airtight container.
You can freeze them either cooked or raw, if you used all fresh ingredients.
You can replace the black olives with green olives, or omit them altogether.
If you love this type of seasoning, we recommend trying other dishes such as rabbit cacciatore and lamb cacciatore !

