name:
Pasta with Baked Vegetable Cream
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Delica pumpkin: ¾cup(200 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 1.8cups(125 g)
Cauliflower: 2 ½cups(250 g)
Leeks: 1
Robiola cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Tomato paste: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Hazelnuts: 0.4cup(50 g)
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Smoked paprika: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Of first courses we've offered many creamy ones, but none are as good as our pasta with baked vegetable cream! A recipe rich in winter vegetables: pumpkin, cauliflower, mushrooms, and leeks, first baked in the oven and then blended with robiola and tomato paste. The robiola gives the sauce a velvety texture, perfectly coating the linguine! Discover how to make this super simple first course, perfect for a delicious vegetable load, perfect to offer to the whole family and beyond!
Here are other vegetable pasta dishes you shouldn't miss:
To prepare the Pasta with baked vegetable cream, first clean the pumpkin and cut it into cubes ; you will need about 5 oz. Also clean the mushrooms with a damp cloth .
Cut them into thin slices . Now separate the cauliflower florets and chop them coarsely , you will need about 7 oz.
Remove the outermost leaves of the leek and cut it into rings . Combine all the vegetables in a bowl, season with salt, oil, pepper, paprika , and thyme .
Transfer them onto a baking sheet , spread them out as much as possible, and bake in a preheated static oven at 430°F for 25 minutes. Take the vegetables out of the oven and let them cool slightly. Meanwhile, bring a pot of salted water to a boil that will be used for cooking the pasta. Then pour the vegetables and robiola into a blender jar .
Add a little water and the tomato paste . Blend everything until you get a thick cream , adding more water only if necessary.
Cook the linguine and in the meantime pour the vegetable cream into a pan. Thin it with a little pasta cooking water and mix well. Coarsely chop the hazelnuts .
Drain the linguine al dente and place them directly into the vegetable cream . Toss them well, finish cooking, and add the chopped hazelnuts . Plate and serve .
The sauce can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days at most. We recommend consuming the pasta immediately; alternatively, it can be stored in the fridge for up to one day.
Vary the vegetables according to the season and your tastes. Instead of robiola, another fresh cheese like ricotta or spreadable cheese is fine.

