name:
Bucatini with sardines, raisins, and pine nuts
ingredients:
Bucatini pasta: 0.7lb(320 g)
Sardines: 160- (already gutted)
Wild fennel: 16tbsp(40 g)
Raisins: 5 ½tbsp(50 g)
Pine nuts: ⅓cup(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Saffron: 2bags
Peperoncino: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Bucatini with sardines, raisins, and pine nuts is a main course dish that tells the story and tradition of Sicilian cuisine. It is a simplified version of the classic pasta with sardines , where the blue fish, raisins, and pine nuts meet in a perfect balance of sweet and savory flavors. Even wild fennel is a fundamental ingredient of this recipe: with its unmistakable aroma, it gives the dish freshness and lightness, perfectly balancing the richness of the other components. Bucatini with sardines, raisins, and pine nuts are ideal for impressing your guests with a recipe that combines tradition and taste, but they are also excellent for a family lunch!
Discover also these main courses with sardines:

To prepare bucatini with sardines, raisins, and pine nuts, first clean the sardines. Remove the head , then open the sardines like a book and, without separating the two fillets, gently remove the central bone . Rinse under running water to remove all impurities. Set aside.
Remove the stems from the fennel , blanch it and set aside. In a pan, toast the pine nuts .
Then add the crushed garlic , the chili pepper , and a drizzle of oil .
Cook the bucatini in salted boiling water . Add the sardines to the pan and a ladle of fennel cooking water .
At this point, add the drained fennel , the raisins , and the saffron .
When there are 2 minutes left before the bucatini are done cooking, drain them and transfer them to the pan , then finish cooking. Plate and finish with a drizzle of raw oil . Your bucatini with sardines, raisins, and pine nuts are ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume bucatini with sardines, raisins, and pine nuts immediately; if there are leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for up to 2 days.
Soak the raisins in warm water for about ten minutes before adding them to the pan, this will restore their softness and enhance their flavor.
If you wish, you can finish with some grated Parmesan cheese.

