name:
Linzer Torte
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Nut flour: 2 ½cups(250 g)
Butter: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: (200 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- at room temperature (about 2 medium)
Lemons: ½
Vanilla bean: 1
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 1tbsp(10 g)
Brandy: 0.4oz(10 g)
Ground cloves: 1pinch
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp
Baking powder: ½tsp(3 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Raspberry jam: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Almond slices: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average

instructions:
Linzer Torte is an Austrian dessert, which has nothing to envy in terms of goodness to the Sacher ! Like other Austrian desserts, such as Kranz , kaiserschmarren or kipferl , this special pie can also be tasted in Trentino and South Tyrol. It is one of the oldest cakes in the world, originating from the city of Linz, a simple Christmas cake to make. It is made with a base of shortcrust pastry prepared with ground hazelnut flour and flavored with cinnamon and cloves. For the filling, a red fruit jam, raspberry or currant is used, which with its sour taste contrasts with the sweetness of the base. Finally, it is decorated with dense crosshatchings and slivered almonds. Traditionally, a layer of wafer was placed between the base and the jam, which acted as an insulator.
To prepare the Linzer torte, in a large bowl pour the softened butter, sugar, salt and mix everything with electric whisks for a couple of minutes. Add the room temperature eggs and mix until fully incorporated. Add the spices, vanilla bean pulp, and grated lemon zest to the mixture .
While keeping the whisks in action, continue adding the flours , baking powder, cocoa powder, and brandy . You should obtain a soft and homogeneous mixture .
Transfer three-quarters of the dough into a pastry bag fitted with a 15 mm nozzle. Cover the bottom of a 9.5-inch diameter mold (preferably with a removable ring) by creating concentric circles starting from the perimeter of the mold . Now fill the base with the jam leaving 0.6 inches of free space from the edge . You will surely have some leftover dough which you will keep aside in this pastry bag.
Transfer the remaining dough into another pastry bag fitted with a 1 cm nozzle and create the decorative crosshatchings . Take the first pastry bag again and create the edge of the tart. Sprinkle the edge with slivered almonds .
Bake the Linzer in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 50-55 minutes. Remove from the oven and let it cool slightly before removing your Linzer torte from the mold . Once cold, decorate with a little powdered sugar !
The Linzer torte can be stored for 2-3 days under a glass dome.
The shortcrust pastry can be frozen wrapped in plastic wrap for 3-4 weeks.
You can replace the raspberry jam with currant or mixed berry jam!
Don't have a pastry bag or prefer not to use it? In this case, let the shortcrust pastry firm up in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours and then proceed to roll it out quickly so it does not soften too much.

