name:
Artichoke Ravioli with Thyme Aroma
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3
Artichokes: 8
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.67cup(160 g)
Marjoram: 1sprig
Thyme: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- to grate
Onions: 1- small
Garlic: 1clove
Wine: - 1/2
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)
Thyme: 4sprigs
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Artichoke ravioli with thyme aroma is a refined and flavorful first course. It is a simple dish to make at home that highlights the versatile artichokes. The filling is made with artichokes that are first sautéed and then chopped; they are accompanied by the more delicate taste of ricotta, while the extra touch for a truly special aroma is the addition of fresh thyme and marjoram. The secret to obtaining an excellent filling is not to over-chop the artichokes that will be used for the stuffing, so that the filling remains more substantial. In this recipe, the artichoke ravioli is dressed with melted butter scented with thyme, but you can experiment with whatever you prefer, such as a cheese sauce or even a tomato-based sauce.
First, prepare the fresh pasta : sift the all-purpose flour into a bowl (you can leave some flour aside and add it later if needed) , then add the slightly beaten eggs and start mixing with a fork ; when the eggs are absorbed, continue by hand and transfer the dough onto a floured surface. Knead until you create an elastic and smooth dough, which you can wrap in plastic wrap , allowing it to rest for about 30 minutes in a cool place.
While the fresh egg pasta is resting, prepare the filling starting with the cleaning of the artichokes , then clean and cut them. . Finely chop the onion and let it soften over very low heat for about 15 minutes with four tablespoons of oil and a clove of garlic, crushed or finely chopped, when the onion becomes transparent, add the artichokes and brown them; halfway through cooking, add white wine and season with salt and pepper. Once cooked, transfer the artichokes to a food processor and coarsely blend them (there should still be pieces of artichokes)
Once cooked, transfer the artichokes to a food processor and coarsely blend them (there should still be pieces of artichokes). Once you have a thick cream, transfer it to a bowl and add the ricotta, fresh marjoram leaves and chopped thyme, and finally, the grated cheese . Mix everything well .
Mix everything well . At this point, you can roll out the pasta until you obtain a rather thin sheet, cut it into strips about 4 inches wide, place the filling in the center , and fold the sheets over themselves .
Gently press around the filling with your finger to push out any air inside (13-14). Once ready
use a pastry cutter to cut out the ravioli . As you prepare the artichoke ravioli, place them on a floured cloth . Once done, cook them in plenty of salted water ;
while the ravioli are cooking, melt the butter in a pan and add the fresh thyme . When the ravioli are cooked, drain them and toss them in the aromatic butter : let them absorb the flavor for a few minutes . Plate them, decorating the dish with a few thyme leaves, and as a final touch, sprinkle some Grana Padano.
You can store the ravioli in the refrigerator for a day at most in an airtight container. Alternatively, you can freeze them raw. To freeze, place the tray with the ravioli in the freezer to harden for a couple of hours. Once they are well hardened, put them in a freezer bag, preferably already portioned, and put them back in the freezer. When you need to use them, cook them directly from frozen in boiling water and proceed as per the recipe.

