name:
Potato and Gorgonzola Croquettes
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.7lbs(750 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)- sweet
Eggs: 1
Breadcrumbs: 0.3cup(40 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.1cup(30 g)- to grate
Fine salt: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅓cup(50 g)
Eggs: 3
Peanut seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
The potato patties are golden bites that everyone always loves, but how can we make them even more irresistible? Simple: with a gooey heart like in the recipe for potato and gorgonzola patties! Soft and flavorful, these vegetarian croquettes will be a hit among lovers of this typical blue cheese and are perfect as an appetizer to accompany an aperitif. Thanks to frying, they will be crispy on the outside and melty on the inside, a contrast to savor bite after bite!
After the potato and gorgonzola patties, also try these equally appetizing variations:
To make the potato and gorgonzola patties, first boil the potatoes with their skin starting from cold water for about 35 minutes from the boil . Once cooked, mash them in a bowl with a potato masher . Let the mashed potatoes cool for about 15 minutes .
At this point, add a pinch of salt , grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP , and an egg .
Also add the breadcrumbs and mix first with a spoon and then with your hands to obtain a compact mixture .
Take small portions of the mixture, about 1.75 oz each, and form balls by shaping them between the palms of your hands, then create a hollow in the center . Add a teaspoon of gorgonzola (about 0.25 oz) and close the mixture to seal the filling inside . Continue this process to form all the patties; with these quantities you will get about ten.
Proceed to the breading: pour the breadcrumbs and flour into 2 different bowls, then crack the eggs into a third bowl and beat them with a pinch of salt. Pass each patty first in the flour , then in the egg , and finally in the breadcrumbs . Repeat this operation to make a second breading.
Heat the seed oil in a saucepan and fry 2-3 patties at a time for about 5-6 minutes . When they are well golden, drain them and transfer them to a sheet of frying paper . Your potato and gorgonzola patties are ready to be enjoyed!
It is recommended to consume the potato and gorgonzola patties immediately, otherwise they will lose their crispiness.
Alternatively, you can freeze them after breading, then fry them directly from frozen; in this case, we recommend making slightly smaller patties to ensure they cook through the center.
You can use spicy gorgonzola for an even stronger flavor, or replace it with taleggio or stracchino!

