name:
Salmon and Ricotta Strudel
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 ml)
Water: ¾cup(175 ml)
Fine salt: ½tsp
Salmon fillets: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Smoked Salmon: 3.5oz(100 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Shallot: 1- large
Brandy: 1small glass
Dill: 1tuft
Thyme: 2sprigs
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Eggs: 1
Egg yolks: 1
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Egg whites: 1
Sesame seeds: 1tsp
Poppy seeds: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
The salmon and ricotta strudel is a tasty appetizer, colorful and flavorful, perfect for this festive period of Christmas dinners and lunches. With the intense aroma that it releases already during cooking, the salmon and ricotta strudel serves as a light and quick intermezzo among other appetizers, and it can be useful as a dish to prepare in advance and perhaps bring to a dinner. And to complete the menu, you could prepare delicious salmon lasagna !
Prepare the strudel dough by combining the sifted flour with salt and the water mixed with oil in a bowl. Knead by hand in the bowl for a few moments and transfer to a floured board to finish kneading ;
Cover with plastic wrap and let rest for about 30-45 minutes in a cool place, but not in the fridge. Peel and finely chop the shallot and let it soften in a pan with oil and butter for at least 15 minutes on very low heat. Meanwhile, cut the fresh salmon (skinless and boneless) into strips and then dice them
and add them to the pan to brown ; once cooked, add the small glass of brandy and let it evaporate, then salt, chop the dill and add it to the salmon in the pan, turn off the heat.
Pour the mixture into a bowl and let it cool slightly; in the meantime, cut the smoked salmon into pieces and add it to the bowl along with: ricotta, one whole egg plus one yolk, .
Grated Grana Padano, thyme, salt, and white pepper . Mix all the ingredients well and let rest for a few minutes. Meanwhile, roll out the dough on a lightly floured surface and shape it into a rectangle that you can then stretch with floured hands
and place it on a clean kitchen towel . Spread the filling over the dough , making sure to leave the edges empty: on one of the longer sides, leave 2 inches of empty dough.
Brush the empty edges of the rolled-out dough with the leftover egg white and, using the towel, roll up the salmon and ricotta strudel starting from the longer side of the rectangle . Fold the ends of the strudel underneath and place it on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper: if it is longer than the baking sheet, bend it into a horseshoe shape.
Brush it with egg white and sprinkle it with mixed poppy and sesame seeds . Bake in a preheated oven at 320°F for about 50-60 minutes. Once baked, let it cool slightly, then cut it into slices and serve. It is also excellent cold!

