name:
Lentil Velouté in Crust
ingredients:
Lentils: 0.6cup(125 g)
Onions: - half
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Puff pastry: - 1 roll
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Thyme: 2sprigs
Vegetable broth: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Precooked cotechino: 3.5oz(100 g)
Eggs: 1- small
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note Plus the soaking time for the lentils

instructions:
Lentils are a must-have on your New Year's Eve table because they are a symbol of good luck: this year we suggest an original way to serve them to your guests! The lentil velouté in crust is a tasty and refined appetizer made from lentils scented with bay leaves and thyme, crispy crumbles of pan-fried cotechino, all covered by a golden puff pastry crust. Invite your guests to break the crust and eat it together with the velouté as if it were bread! Thanks to the lentil velouté in crust, you'll bring an elegant dish to the table that also nods to tradition!
To prepare the lentil velouté in crust, soak the lentils with half a teaspoon of baking soda the night before or 2-3 hours before use, making sure to change the water at least once. Then rinse and drain them. Clean and finely chop the onion, carrot, and celery, and let them wilt over low heat for at least 10 minutes in oil and butter. Add the lentils , stir, add the bay leaf , fresh thyme leaves, and cover everything with vegetable broth .
Boil the lentils until they become tender, adding broth when needed , then salt and pepper to taste. Once the lentils are cooked, remove the bay leaf . While the lentils are cooking, take the pre-cooked cotechino, crumble it in a pan and make it crispy over low heat, stirring occasionally .
Once cooked, blend the lentils in a mixer until you obtain a smooth cream . If it seems too thick, add some vegetable broth. Pour it into 4 small cocottes and add the crumbled cotechino to each one .
Cut circles of puff pastry with a cutter that is 0.5 inches wider in diameter than the cocottes . Moisten the edge of the cocottes with water and cover them with the puff pastry circle ,
sealing the edges well . Brush the puff pastry with beaten egg (14-15) and bake at 390°F for about 15 minutes, until the pastry is puffed and golden! The lentil velouté in crust is ready, serve it hot! For this preparation, you can use both lentils and cotechino left over from your New Year's Eve dinner. Instead of puff pastry, you can use shortcrust pastry.
The lentil velouté in crust should be served immediately after being taken out of the oven and consumed right away. You can only store the lentil velouté in the refrigerator covered for 2 days or freeze it.
Serve the hot lentil cream (be careful not to burn yourself!) and invite your diners to break the crust and eat it together with the cream, as if it were bread.

