name:
Vegetarian Savory Log
ingredients:
White bread loaf: 8.5oz(240 g)- (3 slices)
Cavolo riccio (Kale): 1 ¼cup(80 g)
Edam cheese: 10.6oz(300 g)- sliced
Avocado: 2- (Hass variety, well ripe)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: ½cup(100 g)
Walnut kernels: ½cup(50 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 2tbsp(30 g)- grated
Cream cheese: to taste
Cavolo riccio (Kale): to taste
Dried tomatoes in oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The yule log is one of the typical Christmas desserts: it's never missing from holiday tables! So beautiful, delicious, and ornamental. Who can resist? If you're fond of the sweet version, then you'll surely appreciate the vegetarian savory log! A truly original appetizer to enjoy first with your eyes and then with your palate, perfect for the December 25th lunch. The tasty vegetarian filling includes seasonal kale, a flavorful sun-dried tomato pesto , and the essential avocado that will provide a characteristic flavor reminiscent of raw hazelnut. The vegetarian savory log will be a real ace up your sleeve to impress your guests. What are you waiting for? Get cooking, let's start! Discover more vegetarian recipes for your Christmas!
To prepare the vegetarian savory log, start with the pesto. In a mixer, add the walnut kernels , sun-dried tomatoes not too drained , and grated Pecorino cheese .
Activate the blades and obtain a paste, set it aside for a moment . Move on to the kale. After washing it thoroughly, dry it and remove the stems with a knife . Coarsely chop the leaves and set these aside as well .
Finally, clean the avocado. Cut it in half, remove the central seed , and peel it. If very ripe, it will be easy to separate the flesh from the skin, otherwise, you can run a spoon between the two . Slice thinly .
Now move on to the composition. Place a sheet of plastic wrap on the cutting board . Lay 3 slices of white bread slightly overlapping , then press with the rolling pin to obtain a single slice .
Spread the sun-dried tomato pesto evenly over the entire surface , then distribute the avocado slices and the Edam slices .
Finally, distribute the kale and garnish with salt and oil and proceed to roll it: tightly roll starting from the shorter side to obtain a log .
Wrap the log in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least an hour. Trim the edges before garnishing the surface with some fresh spreadable cheese . Then, score the surface with a fork to recreate the appearance of a snow-dusted log .
Transfer the log to a serving platter using two spatulas or a palette knife and garnish the surface with some kale tips and sun-dried tomatoes . A small grind of pepper and your vegetarian savory log is ready to amaze everyone !
The vegetarian savory log can be stored for 2-3 days in the refrigerator, taking care to place it under a dome. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can vary the filling of your vegetarian savory log according to your tastes: imagine, for example, replacing the kale with radicchio or arugula! Add some toasted and chopped nuts for crunchiness, and finally, get creative with the decoration. Tufts of mixed sprouts, avocado roses, and even rosemary needles and currant berries!
If you follow a vegetarian diet that excludes cheeses made with animal rennet in addition to meat and fish, you can substitute the ingredient with a similar cheese made with vegetable rennet.

