name:
Agnolotti
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 1cup(210 g)- (3 medium)
Onions: 1
Garlic: 2cloves
Meat broth: 8 ½cups(1.5 l)
Veal: 7.1oz(200 g)- meat
Beef: 0.9lb(400 g)- lean
Pork loin: 3.5oz(100 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Verza (savoy cabbage): 2leaves
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- to grate
Butter: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Rosemary: 6sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 3 h 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 1h of resting the fresh pasta in the refrigerator

instructions:
Agnolotti are a typical first course of Piedmontese cuisine and represent a recipe known and appreciated not only in Italy, but also abroad for its goodness and simplicity. The origins of agnolotti can be traced back particularly to the countryside of Piedmont, where housewives would handcraft these specific dumplings using mainly leftover meat from previous days. Naturally, in every region the recipe for agnolotti is different, and the filling is prepared in various ways: in Monferrato and Turin, the filling consists only of roasted pork and veal with the addition of brains; in lower Canavese, the filling also includes cabbage and sausage; in Tortona and Alessandria, the filling is made from braised beef, and the agnolotti are then seasoned with the sauce resulting from the braised preparation. Very popular in the Langhe is the " al plin " agnolotto, literally "pinch," characterized by its boat shape and filled with only meat. Historically, agnolotti were seasoned with a sauce based on meat and vegetables, while today they are preferred with a simpler seasoning of butter and sage or ragù.
Don't miss these other tasty first courses of Piedmontese cuisine:

To prepare agnolotti, start by making the egg pasta. You can consult the Cooking School process: fresh egg pasta . In the bowl of a stand mixer, sift the flour directly into the mixer , add a pinch of salt , and the eggs .
Attach the K beater and mix at medium-high speed to create a smooth and soft mixture . Then transfer the dough to a work surface or cutting board and form a ball . Wrap it with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least an hour. In the meantime, prepare the meat broth; you can follow the process by consulting the sheet: meat broth . Then take the three pieces of beef, veal, and loin for the filling .
Peel the onion and garlic cloves and chop them finely , then place the softened butter pieces in a large pot and melt over very low heat . Once the butter has melted, add the chopped onion and garlic .
Add one or more ladles of meat broth to aid in cooking: the onion and garlic should melt without browning. Then add the rosemary sprigs and the beef . Brown it on both sides, then add the veal .
Finally, add the loin ; season with salt and pepper, and brown the meat pieces on all sides, cooking by adding a ladle of broth from time to time to flavor the meat and aid in cooking. Gradually, a thick and dark cooking base will form .
Cover the meat and cook for about 3 hours, continuing to add broth occasionally. Once the meat is cooked , separate it from the cooking base, which you can collect in a small bowl : it will be used to season the agnolotti.
Leaf the cabbage , wash two leaves under running water, and boil them for a few minutes in boiling water ; when they have softened, transfer them with a slotted spoon to a tray lined with paper towels to drain.
In a blender, place the meat pieces and cooked cabbage and blend everything until you get a homogeneous mince . Then, in a bowl, beat the egg, grate the nutmeg
also add the grated Parmesan using a teaspoon and mix with a whisk . Then add the minced meat and mix until you get a soft and homogeneous mixture.
Fill a piping bag with the mixture . Then take the egg pasta out of the refrigerator. Divide the dough ball into two halves and roll them out with a rolling pin just enough to then work it with a pasta machine and obtain a rather thin sheet . Flour an agnolotti mold (if you don't have one, you can roll out the pasta sheet on a slightly floured cutting board and use a serrated pasta cutter). Then place a sheet on the mold, cutting the excess edges with a pasta cutter. Then place a dollop of the mixture with the piping bag in each space of the mold .
You can brush a bit of water on the points of the pasta without filling so that the other pasta sheet adheres better. Then place it and press lightly with your hands to make it adhere to the bottom one. Cut the agnolotti with the pasta cutter and boil them for about 2 minutes in the pot with boiling broth .
When they start to float , drain them with a slotted spoon and place them on plates, adding the braised cooking sauce . Serve your agnolotti hot! :)
Cooked agnolotti can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day. They can be frozen uncooked only if fresh ingredients and not thawed ones have been used.
As for the name, it seems that agnolotto derives from the name of the Monferrato chef Angelotu, who was the first to invent this type of dumpling, which was named "piat d’Angelot," eventually transforming over time into agnolotto.
Apart from epic Sunday feasts worthy of being remembered in history, I recommend serving a light second course after the agnolotti, perhaps with a fresh salad as a side dish. Rather, since they will be the main dish of the meal, it is worth varying the seasoning: you could try them with a simple ragù or, as tradition dictates, a sauce based on meat and vegetables.

