name:
Pomegranate Jam
ingredients:
Pomegranate: 4.4lbs(1.5 kg)- whole
Golden delicious apples: 7.8oz(220 g)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Lemon juice: ¼cup(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 12 hours of resting

instructions:
Of jams and preserves, we have them for all seasons. Many flavors and colors to brighten and vary your breakfast in the morning or enrich homemade tarts. Try apricot , Strawberry Jam , or Cherry Jam in spring, while in winter you can enjoy lemon, Persimmon Jam , or the pomegranate jam you find here, an unusual and intriguing proposal that will pique your curiosity. The sweet-tart flavor that distinguishes this fruit will give a unique taste to your jam and make it perfect to pair with aged cheeses, like Pecorino, or blue cheeses, like Gorgonzola. Purists will also appreciate it simply spread on a slice of bread, for a healthy and genuine breakfast!
To make pomegranate jam, cut the fruits in half , seed them, and collect about 30.7 oz of seeds in a bowl . Wash the apple and, without peeling it, cut it in half, remove the core, and chop it into pieces .

Place the pomegranate seeds in a large pot , flavor with the lemon zest , and add the apple .
Add the sugar , cover with plastic wrap and let it macerate overnight. After resting, add the lemon juice and cook for about 40 minutes on low heat.
As foam forms, remove it with a skimmer . Remove from heat and pass the mixture through a food mill to remove the seeds . You can also use an immersion blender for this operation.
Collect all the juice , pour it back into the pot, and return it to low heat, cooking for another 50-60 minutes while stirring often . The jam should thicken .
Check the consistency with the saucer test. Pour a teaspoon of jam onto a saucer; if the mixture runs, it means the jam needs to cook longer, but if it remains firm , it's ready. Transfer the hot jam into the jars you have sanitized , using a ladle and leaving 0.4 inches of space from the rim. Seal the jars and let them cool . You can turn them upside down or skip this step: the heat will still create a vacuum seal, allowing the product to be preserved for a long time. The pomegranate jam is ready.
Homemade pomegranate jam lasts about 3 months in a dark, dry place if the jars are correctly sterilized and the vacuum seal is achieved. Once opened, keep in the refrigerator for 3-4 days.
You can squeeze the pomegranate juice first and skip the overnight maceration. Cook with lemon juice and zest, sugar, and apples. After 30-40 minutes, blend the mixture with an immersion blender to make it creamier. The apple is very important for the pomegranate jam because it is rich in pectin, which will naturally thicken your jam.
The home preparation of preserves and jams can present health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the necessary conditions and measures to guarantee the safety and suitability of food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures are able to ensure in order to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to scrupulously follow food safety instructions to reduce risks, but one must always bear in mind that one can never achieve the same food safety as professionally produced preserves and jams. For the correct preparation of home-made preserves, we refer to the Italian Ministry of Health guidelines
. What does this jam taste like?
Pomegranate jam has a strong and slightly tart flavor that pairs well with cheese.
. Is the apple essential?
The apple acts as a natural thickener because it is rich in pectin, so it cannot be omitted.
. Which pomegranates should be chosen?
It is best to use ripe pomegranates with juicy and flavorful seeds.
. Why does foam form during cooking?
The foam is formed by impurities from the fruit that emerge during cooking, and it's best to remove it to make the jam shinier and more transparent.
. Tips for seeding the fruit
Remove the top cap, then cut the fruit in half. Tap the peel with the back of a spoon and collect the seeds in a bowl.


