name:
Lasagna with Broccoli Rabe and Sausage
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 6.3oz(180 g)- (12 sheets)
Provola cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2cups(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Broccoli rabe: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- to clean
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Garlic: 2cloves
Yellow onions: 1
Sausage: 1.1lbs(500 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
Raise your hand if you don't love lasagna ... delightful layers of fresh egg pasta alternated with the most appetizing ingredients! In this recipe, lasagna with broccoli rabe and sausage, a perfect winter main course! This time, we were inspired by a typical Mediterranean culinary tradition pairing: Turnip tops with sausage , a rich dish with timeless rustic flavors, to which we added a creamy and velvety béchamel sauce. A cascade of diced provola couldn't be missing, making your baked lasagna even richer and tastier! Discover our delicious recipe and other tempting variations:
To prepare lasagna with broccoli rabe and sausage, first take care of the béchamel: heat the milk in a saucepan . Melt the butter in another saucepan over low heat , then pour in the flour all at once . Stir vigorously with a whisk to avoid lumps.
Continue stirring until you get a golden mixture. Pour a little hot milk , stir, and pour in the rest of the milk. Salt and pepper . Cook the béchamel for about 5-6 minutes. Keep at room temperature covered with plastic wrap in contact .
Peel and chop the onion . Remove the casing from the sausage by scoring with a knife , crumble the sausage with your hands .
In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil , heat slightly, then add the chopped onion . Cook over low heat for about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add the crumbled sausage , sauté for about 8 minutes, or until fully cooked.
Set aside the cooked sausage . Clean the broccoli rabe by separating the smaller branches from the central stalk, which you will discard, and slice while keeping the leaves slightly larger . Blanch the broccoli rabe in salted boiling water for about 3-4 minutes .
In the meantime, remove the seeds from the chili pepper and chop it , crush the two garlic cloves. Heat some oil in a pan, add the whole crushed garlic and the chili pepper .
Drain the broccoli rabe well and add them to the pan with the garlic and chili pepper , salt , let cool slightly and remove the garlic cloves. Chop the provola .
Assemble the lasagna: place a couple of tablespoons of béchamel at the bottom of a 12 x 8 x 3 inch baking dish , lay 3 sheets of egg lasagna slightly overlapping, press a little to adhere everything well. Add the broccoli rabe .
Then add the sausage, the provola , and the béchamel , overlap another 3 sheets of egg pasta . Continue this way until you have four layers.
On the last layer, finish with grated parmesan (in place of béchamel, so directly in contact with the other ingredients) . Pour a drizzle of oil over the parmesan. Bake in a preheated static oven at 400°F for 25 minutes. At the end of cooking, turn on the grill and brown for 5 minutes. Take the lasagna with broccoli rabe and sausage out of the oven and let cool slightly before serving .
The béchamel keeps for a maximum of 2 days in the refrigerator, in an airtight container. The lasagna keeps in the refrigerator for a maximum of 2 days. They can be frozen after cooking.
If you prepare the béchamel much earlier, once cold, if it should thicken, it can be recovered by stirring it vigorously with a whisk, thus making it creamier.
The discarded central stalk of the broccoli rabe can be blanched separately, blended, seasoned, and turned into a sauce for pasta. The leaves of the broccoli rabe are thinner and cook faster than the branches, they are cut larger so that cooking everything together results in an even outcome.

