name:
Crunchy Stars with Chocolate and Cinnamon
ingredients:
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)- cold from the fridge
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp
Lemon peel: 1
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Honey: 6tsp(40 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Egg whites: 1
Cinnamon powder: to taste
Sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 12 min
Makes: 26 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + resting time of the dough in the refrigerator

instructions:
Crunchy chocolate stars are crispy, tasty cookies flavored with cinnamon. Thanks to the honey in the dough, they evoke all the flavor and atmosphere of Christmas. They are perfect both for breakfast during the holidays and to be gifted or used as cookies hanging on the tree! The butter and dark chocolate give these cookies exceptional crunchiness and friability, making them particularly appreciated by children!
To prepare crunchy stars with chocolate and cinnamon, start by chopping the dark chocolate , then add it to the sifted flour in the bowl of a mixer . Also pour in the cold butter cut into pieces ;
then operate the blades to create a sandy mixture . Transfer it to a bowl and pour in the granulated sugar and honey . Then add the egg yolk . Also add the ground cinnamon and grated lemon zest.
Quickly work all the ingredients by hand to avoid warming the dough too much , then form a dough ball, flatten it into an oval shape, and wrap it in plastic wrap (8-9). Place it in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes to firm up.
After the necessary time, roll out the dough on a lightly floured work surface to a thickness of about 0.4 inches . Using a star-shaped cookie cutter, cut out shapes from the dough : you will get about 26; you can knead the scraps to finish the dough. Place them on a tray lined with parchment paper and refrigerate to firm up for 15 minutes.
Then place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and brush them with egg white , then sprinkle with sugar flavored with ground cinnamon and bake at 302°F for about 12-15 minutes (266°F for 8-10 minutes if using a fan oven. You can bake 1 or 2 as a test to better adjust the time and temperature). Once baked, remove the crunchy chocolate and cinnamon stars and let them cool completely on a rack before serving!
You can store the crunchy chocolate and cinnamon stars in a glass jar or tin box for 5-6 days.
You can freeze the dough wrapped in plastic wrap for about 1 month and defrost it in the refrigerator as needed.
You can also decorate the crunchy stars with chopped hazelnuts or pistachios if you prefer!

