name:
Mascarpone Truffles
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
Mascarpone cheese: ½cup(100 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Shredded coconut: ½cup(40 g)
Ground pistachio: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: 2tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Makes: 22 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Mascarpone truffles are chocolate-based bon-bons . They are an original and refined idea for using mascarpone. Soft and colorful, garnished with hazelnut and pistachio crumbs, coconut flakes, and bitter cocoa for those with a sweet tooth, but you can personalize them according to your tastes! Serve them in elegant patterned paper cups for an even more refined effect. Mascarpone truffles will adorn your table on the most special occasions, such as parties, Christmas lunches or New Year's Eve or on the table of a rich buffet, perhaps creating a delicious display of Truffles and simple chocolate truffles !
To prepare mascarpone truffles, coarsely chop the chocolate and melt it in a double boiler on the stove . Stir the chocolate with a spatula
And continue until the chocolate has melted . Then remove the pot from the heat and pour the melted chocolate into a large bowl and add the mascarpone .
Mix the melted chocolate well with the mascarpone until you obtain a homogeneous mixture . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it cool in the fridge for at least two hours to solidify the mixture. After two hours, divide the mixture into small portions of about 0.5 oz each using a teaspoon, and with damp hands, shape each portion into a round shape. You will get about 22 truffles. At this point, prepare bowls with cocoa powder, hazelnut and pistachio crumbs, and coconut flakes .
Coat the truffles as you like by dipping them in pistachios and other decorations, making sure to cover them entirely. Place the mascarpone truffles in paper cups and store them in the refrigerator until ready to serve .
You can store the truffles in the refrigerator for up to 2-3 days, covering them with plastic wrap or under a glass dome.
You can prepare the truffles the day before and then garnish them with the crumbs (whichever you prefer) just before serving, so they will maintain their crunchiness!

