name:
Fried Tortellini Skewers with Cream and Parmesan Sauce
ingredients:
Eggs: 1- medium
Vegetable broth: 8 ½cups(1.5 l)
Tortellini pasta: 36- medium
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 ml)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: 1pinch
Whole milk: 0.4cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time for the tortellini

instructions:
The fried tortellini skewers with cream and Parmesan sauce are a truly original and imaginative appetizer, perfect for the holiday season and beyond, allowing you to quickly prepare an unusual and particularly tasty dish that will pleasantly surprise your guests! After boiling the tortellini in broth, skewer them, brush them with egg, coat them with breadcrumbs, and fry them in hot oil accompanied by a sauce of cream, Parmesan, and nutmeg.
To prepare the fried tortellini skewers with cream and Parmesan sauce, boil the tortellini in broth and drain them when they are al dente ; let them cool down separately so they don't stick together. Now make the sauce: put the cream in a saucepan , heat it over low heat, add the milk , and slowly bring it to a boil.
Add the grated Parmesan and mix with a whisk until it is completely melted , then add the grated nutmeg and pepper. Continue stirring until the mixture thickens, then adjust the salt if necessary, turn off the heat, and set the cream aside.
Now start assembling the skewers: thread three tortellini onto each wooden skewer , making a total of 12 skewers, and set them aside. In a bowl, beat an egg with a fork and brush it onto each tortellini skewer .
Then roll them in breadcrumbs . Fry the skewers in hot oil for 1 minute , turning them to brown both sides, then place them on a tray lined with paper towels to drain ; subsequently, arrange them on a serving plate. Place the cheese sauce in a small bowl, to be served with a teaspoon: each guest can drizzle their skewers with it before eating.
These skewers cannot be stored as they would lose their crispiness.
Be careful not to overcook the tortellini, or you won't be able to skewer them onto the wooden sticks. To prepare the skewers, you'll need to get medium-large tortellini with a rather firm dough, so they don't break during skewering. If you wish, you can use tortellini with various fillings for the skewers: meat, prosciutto, speck, ricotta and spinach, artichokes, etc... The accompanying cream and Parmesan sauce (with a fairly neutral flavor) will pair well with the filling you choose.

