name:
Befana's Sweet Coal
ingredients:
Powdered sugar: 2.4cups(300 g)
Egg whites: 1
Pure alcohol: 0.4oz(10 g)
Food coloring: 1tsp(5 g)- black in powder
Lemon juice: 4drops
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The night of the Epiphany takes away the holidays but leaves behind many delicious treats in the stockings of children hanging by the fireplaces and on the Christmas tree. Candies, chocolates, cookies for the good kids, and the traditional coal for the naughty ones, no longer real as it used to be but a sweet version that serves as a tasty reminder. You too can make the Befana's sweet coal; with our recipe, it will be simple and fun!
To make Befana's sweet coal, start with the icing: place the egg whites in a bowl , add the drops of lemon juice, and start whipping with the beaters (alternatively, you can use a stand mixer). Gradually incorporate the powdered sugar , the alcohol ,
finally add the black food coloring powder . The dosage is for the powder version; if you use liquid colorings, you will need a slightly larger amount. In this case, it is recommended to increase the amount gradually until you reach the desired color. Keep whipping until you achieve a thick and dark glaze. Separately, in a thick-bottomed stainless steel pan, non-stick, prepare the syrup: pour in the water and black coloring , add the granulated sugar
mix quickly to wet all the sugar and let it boil until the caramel reaches a temperature of 286°F . If you don't have a thermometer, do not add the coloring immediately, but add it as soon as the caramel becomes golden. It will take about 10-15 minutes. Slightly heat 2 tablespoons of icing in a double boiler or microwave and pour them into the syrup . Give a quick stir and immediately pour into a loaf pan lined with parchment paper (or in a mold with high edges).
The mixture will increase in volume; if you want a more airy coal, let it cool without stirring; if you prefer it more compact, stir the coal for a few seconds in the mold with a spoon. Let the coal harden at room temperature, then turn it over on a cutting board (10-11) and roughly cut it with a knife to achieve the "coal" effect .
The Befana's sweet coal can be stored for up to a month, protected from humidity, well-sealed in a plastic bag or a tin box.
To work with it best, it is necessary to prepare more royal icing than you actually need, so only color the amount of icing you need to redo the process multiple times with more colors.

