name:
Confit Duck Legs
ingredients:
Duck legs: 4
Clarified butter: 2cups(1 kg)
Orange peel: 1
Thyme: 6sprigs
Bay leaves: 3leaves
Mixed peppers: to taste- whole
Fine salt: to taste
Belgian endive: 4
Balsamic vinegar: 3.3tbsp(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Orange juice: 1- red
Thyme: 3sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 3 h 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High
Note + 12 hours of rest

instructions:
Confit duck legs are a succulent main course inspired by elegant and refined French cuisine. In this recipe, the duck legs will be tender and juicy on the inside, maintaining an irresistible crispy crust on the outside. The aromas further enhance the flavor: the freshness of the orange, with its zest adding a citrusy touch, and the enveloping scent of thyme, which harmoniously completes the complex taste of duck meat. But that's not all: the dish is served with equally delicious sides. Belgian endive, crunchy and delicately bitter, becomes the star alongside the duck legs. Sautéed in a pan with a mix of orange juice and balsamic vinegar, this vegetable turns into a tasty accompaniment capable of balancing the richness of the meat with its light acidity. Confit duck legs are a truly gourmet experience to enjoy comfortably at home.
Discover other recipes that celebrate duck as the star in the kitchen:

To prepare the confit duck legs, first remove any feathers from the legs with a blowtorch . Rinse them under running water and pat them dry. Then place them in a baking dish with bay leaves, thyme, salt, and the mixed peppercorns .
Flavor with orange zest , then cover with plastic wrap and marinate in the refrigerator for 12 hours. After marinating, cover the legs with clarified butter .
Cover the baking dish with parchment paper and wrap it with foil , then bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for 3 hours. Once ready, take them out of the oven .
Remove the legs from the baking dish, place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper , and bake in a preheated oven at 430°F for 40 minutes; this way, the meat will be very tender and the skin nicely flavorful and crispy. Meanwhile, cut the endive heads in half . In a pan, heat a splash of oil with a clove of garlic .
Salt and pepper, add the thyme sprigs, and brown the endive on both sides . Deglaze with orange juice .
Also pour in the balsamic vinegar , cover with the lid , and cook for 10 minutes .
Take the duck legs out of the oven, which will now be well browned . Plate the confit duck legs and serve with the endive and a sprinkle of pepper !
Store the confit duck legs in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 1-2 days. They can be frozen if you have used fresh, non-defrosted ingredients.
The sautéed endive can also be stored in the fridge for a couple of days, but freezing is not recommended.
You can purchase ready-made clarified butter or make it at home following our recipe: Clarified butter .

