name:
Cotechino in Puff Pastry with Lentils
ingredients:
Cotechino: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Spinach: 10cups(300 g)
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- 1 rectangular roll
Dried lentils: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1- medium
Yellow onions: ½
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Vegetable broth: 8 ½cups(1.5 l)- approximately
Eggs: 1
Maldon salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 2 h 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
New Year's Eve means cotechino with lentils ! There's no better dish to enjoy at the stroke of midnight, and today we're showing you how to cook it in an exceptionally delicious way. Let's prepare together the cotechino in puff pastry with lentils, a classic yet truly original version inspired by the classic Beef Wellington ! Instead of the filet, we use cotechino; we used fresh cotechino and cooked it in boiling water before wrapping it in puff pastry. Instead of the typical mushroom cream, we added a touch of creaminess with a finely chopped spinach mix, making this dish super tasty! The stewed lentils are a must as a side dish, a good luck wish for the year to come! Here are more recipes with cotechino:
To prepare the cotechino in puff pastry with lentils, first make the vegetable broth . Take an uncooked cotechino, prick it with a toothpick, and roll it in a sheet of parchment paper . Then use kitchen twine to tie it , as if it were a roast . If you've never done this, find out here how to tie a roast .
Immerse it in a large pot, cover with cold water , and let it cook for 2 hours from boiling. In the meantime, prepare the lentils. In another pot, pour a little olive oil, the chopped onion , and the chopped carrot .
Also add the finely chopped celery and gently sauté everything . Then add the lentils , salt, freshly ground black pepper, and the 2 bay leaves .
Cover with the vegetable broth and cook everything for an hour and a half over low heat, adding more hot broth if necessary, stirring occasionally. Meanwhile, also prepare the spinach. Immerse them in hot salted water for a few minutes, until wilted .
Drain them and transfer them to ice water . Then squeeze them very well and transfer them to a cutting board. You will need to chop them very finely, until you achieve a creamy consistency .
As soon as the cotechino is ready, drain it, remove the casing, and let it cool. Roll out the puff pastry on a surface and spread the spinach cream over it, covering almost the entire surface . Place the cotechino on one side of the pastry and start rolling it ; make sure the seam ends up on the bottom .
Press down on the sides to seal it well . Transfer to a baking sheet with parchment paper, brush with egg , and sprinkle with Maldon salt .
Bake the cotechino in a preheated fan oven at 356°F for 30/35 minutes. Once golden, remove from the oven and let it rest for a few minutes. Then slice it and serve it with the lentils .
We recommend consuming the cotechino in puff pastry within a few hours, otherwise the pastry might soften.
If you prefer, you can cook the cotechino a day in advance. Cooked lentils keep for 2-3 days.
Use a tea towel to squeeze the spinach better. Instead of spinach, you can use other seasonal leafy greens. Instead of puff pastry, you can use shortcrust pastry!

