name:
Linguine scampi e cognac
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Scampi: 16- (approximately 1.4 kg to clean)
Garlic: 2cloves
Cognac: 1.4oz(40 g)
Tomato purée: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Parsley: 1tuft
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Scampi: - the waste
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Onions: 1
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Are you looking for a seafood main dish with an aromatic taste? We offer you a version of the classic linguine with langoustines enhanced with cognac. The delicate taste of the shellfish, stars of many first courses like spaghetti with seafood or pasta with prawns , meets the aromas and scents contained in the famous brandy to create a unique and elegant explosion of flavors, making linguine with langoustines and cognac the ideal dish for your holiday menus. A few small tricks to make this dish irresistible? Finish cooking the pasta in the tomato sauce and broth, it will absorb all the seasoning and become even more flavorful!
If you love recipes with shellfish, don't miss:

To prepare linguine with langoustines and cognac, clean 12 langoustines: detach the heads of the langoustines and remove the black intestinal thread . Make two lateral cuts in the shell on the belly of the shellfish and extract the flesh .
Clean the remaining 4 langoustines but do not remove the head. With the scraps from the langoustines, make a tasty shellfish broth : in a pot, pour the olive oil, the scraps from the langoustines , and the vegetables peeled and coarsely chopped . Let them flavor for a few moments over medium heat, then deglaze with white wine ,
when the wine has evaporated, add the water , cover with the lid , and cook on low heat for 10 minutes. Once cooked, strain the broth through a sieve and set aside .
In a pan, heat the oil and let it flavor with a clove of garlic for a few minutes , then pour in the tomato puree and let the sauce thicken for about 20 minutes .
In another pan, heat the oil with a clove of garlic, add the langoustines , let them flavor for a few moments, then deglaze with the cognac and cook for a couple of minutes on high heat .
Place a pot with plenty of salted water on the heat and bring to a boil, pour in the pasta and cook for 5 minutes, they will continue cooking in the pan, drain them directly into the pan with the sauce , add a couple of ladles of broth and continue cooking the pasta, in this way it will absorb the aromas of the seasoning.
When the linguine is cooked, incorporate the langoustines sautéed in the pan , season with chopped parsley and mix gently. Serve the linguine with langoustines and cognac hot .
Store the linguine with langoustines and cognac in the refrigerator for up to 1 day. You can freeze the sauce separately if you have used fresh ingredients.
If you don't have Cognac or don't like its aroma, you can replace it with another spirit of your choice.

