name:
Rabbit Roll
ingredients:
Rabbit: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (already deboned)
Sweet Pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)- (10 slices)
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Thyme: 3sprigs
Myrtle: 3sprigs
White wine: ½cup(100 g)
Vegetable broth: 1.7cups(400 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Ground veal: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Eggs: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
With rabbit, you can create many flavorful and wholesome main dishes, like the rabbit roll. Ideal as a Sunday main course or for Christmas lunch, this is a truly tasty roll with a minced meat filling. To make it more succulent and flavorful on the outside, we wrapped it with slices of bacon! Now all you have to do is choose the perfect side dish: classic roasted potatoes , gratin cauliflower, or a simple mixed salad!
Also discover the delicious goodness of:
To prepare the rabbit roll, start with the filling. Place the minced meat in a bowl, add the chopped herbs , the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP , the egg , and a pinch of salt and pepper.
Mix the filling well until you obtain a homogeneous mixture. On a cutting board, lay the boned rabbit down flat, then salt and pepper it. Cover with a sheet of parchment paper and pound it with a meat mallet to achieve a thin and even thickness . Place the filling in the center .
Fold the outer edges of the rabbit towards the center , then carefully roll it up to obtain a roulade .
Lay the bacon slices on a cutting board, place the roll on top, and lift them one by one from both sides to cover it . Now, using a string, tie the meat as if it were a roast . If you don't know how to do this, consult our guide: how to tie a roast .
Place the sprigs of thyme, rosemary, and myrtle and use more string to tie them to the meat . The roll is ready , now you just need to cook it. Use a pot suitable for oven cooking as well. Pour a drizzle of oil inside and add two cloves of garlic .
Heat on the stove and place the roll inside the pot . Brown it well on all sides , then deglaze with white wine .
Once all the wine has evaporated, pour in the hot broth . Now transfer to a static oven preheated to 392°F for 60 minutes. During cooking, turn the roast every 15-20 minutes. After the cooking time, remove it from the oven . Transfer the roast to a cutting board, keeping the cooking juices warm .
Remove the string and slice it . Drizzle it with the sauce and serve it .
It can be stored in the fridge for 1-2 days. If you use all fresh ingredients, it can be frozen, keeping the cooking juices as well. You can freeze it either sliced or whole.
You can also prepare the roll a day in advance, store it in the refrigerator, and cook it on the same day. You can accompany the roll with roasted potatoes, but we recommend cooking them separately.

