name:
Homemade Mascarpone
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Lemon juice: 1tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus resting times (24 hours)

instructions:
If you like homemade products, here's another recipe to save: homemade mascarpone. Making this cheese is really simple, and with a few steps, you'll get a thick and creamy mascarpone, truly delicious for all the spoon desserts and more! Surely you're wondering how mascarpone is made? How many ingredients or complicated procedures might be involved! Instead, homemade mascarpone is made with only two ingredients: cream and citric acid, which is naturally found in lemon juice. To achieve a good result, it's important to maintain the right temperature, so we recommend getting a kitchen thermometer before you start. Another important thing not to overlook is the resting time, allowing excess liquids to drain away and obtain a more compact cheese! Now that you have everything you need to prepare homemade mascarpone, here are some suggestions for preparing recipes, desserts, and savory dishes:
To prepare homemade mascarpone, first squeeze the lemon and set the juice aside. Now pour the cream into a pot and turn on the heat, on low. Stir carefully with a wooden spoon and heat the cream until it reaches a temperature of 180°F (use a kitchen thermometer to measure the correct temperature) .
At this point, turn off the heat and add the lemon juice and stir . Let it cool for 10 minutes. Prepare a bowl and place a strainer inside .
Now place a clean cloth inside the strainer . Pour the cream inside and cover with plastic wrap . The mixture will need to rest in the refrigerator for 24 hours so that the cloth filters the liquids, which will drain into the bowl.
After the 24 hours, take the bowl out of the fridge . Your homemade mascarpone is ready. Using a spoon, scoop it out and store it in a clean bowl , or in a jar.
Homemade mascarpone can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days, well covered.
Homemade mascarpone can be used just like the classic tub version: for both sweet and savory preparations.
Very important, in fact, it's essential to have excellent fresh cream to obtain a high-quality mascarpone.
Since it's a precision instrument, the thermometer can't be replaced by an empirical or eyeball method. They are available at very affordable prices both in stores and supermarkets and online.
Unfortunately, no. The process naturally - not mechanically - is achieved through the separation of the fat from the whey, and only this way you will obtain the mascarpone.
Just like in the past, homemade mascarpone has a slightly tangy taste that is not overly intrusive or lingering, which is why you can use it to make both sweet and savory recipes without issues.

