name:
Santa Claus Bread
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 6cups(750 g)
Water: ¾cup(190 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(120 g)
Butter: 6tbsp(90 g)- softened
Extra virgin olive oil: 4 ½tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: 2.7tsp(15 g)
Sugar: 1.7tsp(7 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1 ¼tsp(6 g)
Gaeta olives: 2
Eggs: 1
Food coloring: to taste- red

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the dough rising time

instructions:
An original recipe to spend Christmas Eve with your children getting hands-on! Santa Claus bread is a fun recipe from the internet depicting the cheerful face of the most beloved Santa by children. The savory dough is made with bread dough and softened with butter. Once rested, the dough is divided into parts to form the face, beard, nose, and even the pom-pom of the hat! Final touch: the red! With beaten egg and food coloring, you can color the hat and nose! For the eyes, just two black olives are needed! Make your children happy and have fun waiting for Santa Claus by preparing Santa Claus bread! And to further decorate your table, also make the Bread Wreath !
To prepare Santa Claus bread, start by dissolving the yeast in lukewarm water , while in lukewarm milk add sugar and salt, and stir to combine the ingredients. Take a large bowl and pour in the sifted flour, then add the water with dissolved yeast ,
then also pour in the milk with sugar and salt . Begin kneading, gradually adding the olive oil in a thin stream. Once the oil is incorporated, add the softened butter in small pieces a little at a time, adding more when the previous amount is incorporated.
Knead everything in the bowl, then transfer the dough to a lightly floured surface. Work it vigorously until you get a soft, smooth, and homogeneous dough. Form a ball, place it in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise at room temperature for a couple of hours (or until it doubles in volume) .
After the necessary time, take the dough again, divide it into two parts, one about 2 lbs and the other 1 lb. Roll out the larger one into a triangular shape 14 inches in height, with a bottom width of about 2.5 inches and a base of 9 inches, with rounded corners representing Santa Claus's head and hat. Place the dough triangle on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and brush with water . Then cut strips about 0.4 inches thick along the base of the triangle .
From the remaining dough, take a quarter to use for decoration, while gently rolling out the rest and using a cutter to make 0.4 inch thick strips without cutting them completely . Twist the strips around themselves to give movement to the beard and place it about halfway down the triangle, leaving space for the base of the hat and eyes . From the remaining dough, make small logs of various lengths that you can combine to create the mustache .
Make the nose with a small ball of dough and place the nose and mustache in the center of the beard . Then slightly fold the tip to simulate the Christmas hat , make a pom-pom and pierce it with scissors .
Position the pom-pom and then focus on the base of the hat with the remaining dough, making a small log to slightly flatten .
Finish the edge with a serrated cutter , brush Santa Claus's forehead with water and place the base of the hat .
Create the eyes with two black olives and brush all of Santa Claus bread with beaten egg . In the remaining beaten egg, add a few drops of red food coloring until you get the desired color .
With a brush, color the hat and the nose red, then bake Santa Claus bread in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 35 minutes (if using a fan oven, at 320°F for about 25-30 minutes). Once cooked, remove it from the oven , let it cool slightly, and enjoy it to celebrate Christmas!
You can store Santa Claus bread in a food bag for 1-2 days. You can freeze the dough after rising and defrost it in the refrigerator for at least 12 hours. Then, knead it briefly and let it come to room temperature before shaping.
You can make Santa Claus bread with the entire dough or divide it to make many mini Santa Claus rolls!

