name:
White Lasagna
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Sausage: 0.9lb(400 g)
Spinach: 10cups(1 kg)
Onions: 1.8oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 ml)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Whole milk: 1.9cups(450 g)
Type 0 flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Nutmeg: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
White lasagna is a tasty variant of the typical Bolognese dish made with fresh egg pasta and meat ragù. From today, Sunday lunch is filled with new colors and flavors! Like all "white" versions, the missing ingredient here is tomato sauce, but we assure you won't miss it. Instead, you'll find a tantalizing filling with sausage, spinach, and cheese, all wrapped in the essential béchamel sauce , adding a creamy and velvety touch to this main course. Discover more delicious lasagna recipes you can prepare at home:

To prepare homemade white lasagna, start with the béchamel sauce: heat the milk in a saucepan . Separately, melt the butter over low heat and add the flour all at once , stirring constantly, and cook for about two minutes .
Remove from heat and slowly add the heated milk , stirring with a whisk to prevent lumps, then return to the heat and continue cooking over low heat until the béchamel comes to a boil and thickens. Season with salt and finish with a pinch of grated nutmeg .

Peel and finely chop the onion , cut the sausage, remove the casing , and crumble it. Heat 1 1/2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil in a pan .
Sauté the onion over low heat , then add the sausage and let it cook for a few minutes .
Transfer the sausage to a bowl . Wash the spinach and, without drying them, place half in the same pan where the sausage was browned, using the same cooking base.
Add a pinch of salt and let them wilt covered with a lid for 5 minutes . Add the other half and complete the cooking for another 5 minutes, still covered. Once cooked, squeeze them and chop them with a knife .
Assemble the lasagna: in a baking tray measuring 14 x 10 inches, spread a few tablespoons of béchamel sauce on the bottom , continue with layers of dry pasta , béchamel sauce ,
sausage , spinach , and a handful of grated Grana Padano cheese .
Continue like this until you use up all the ingredients. There will be a total of three pasta layers . Cover with a sheet of aluminum foil . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 25 minutes, then remove the foil and finish baking for another 10 minutes. The white lasagna is ready to be enjoyed .
You can store the white lasagna in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container, for 1-2 days. It can be prepared the day before, kept in the fridge covered with plastic wrap, and baked the next day. It can be frozen, only if all fresh ingredients were used, preferably uncooked: to cook it, simply thaw it in the refrigerator about 24 hours before and then bake it in the oven.
If you love getting your hands into dough, try making homemade fresh egg lasagna following our recipe!

