name:
Persimmon and Cocoa Pudding
ingredients:
Persimmon: 3.1cups(700 g)- ripe
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 8tbsp(40 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste
Chopped almonds: to taste- or mixed nuts, caramelized

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the time to set in the refrigerator (at least 8 h)

instructions:
Today we really want to surprise you, let's prepare a spoon dessert with just two ingredients: persimmon and cocoa pudding. Thanks to the sweetness of the persimmons, this pudding is sugar-free, and thanks to the thickening power of the persimmons, you'll get a pudding without gelatin, yet equally compact and creamy. You won't have any trouble extracting the pudding from the molds, but we advise you to respect the resting times, without reducing them, because this magic will happen slowly. You can enjoy this vegan pudding without too much guilt... serve it to the little ones as well, we're sure they won't feel the difference with the classic chocolate pudding they love so much! But all good things have at least one downside, and the only drawback of this pudding is that it can only be prepared in the cold season when persimmons are well ripe! If you are lovers of special desserts, also try these:
To prepare the persimmon and cocoa pudding, first remove the stem from the persimmons . Peel them and transfer all the pulp into a blender .
Add the cocoa as well and blend everything until you get a smooth and homogeneous consistency . Divide the mixture into 4 molds, pouring about 5 oz into each .
Once you have filled the molds , place them on a tray and cover with plastic wrap. Refrigerate for at least 8 hours. After the resting time, unmold the puddings onto a plate .
Decorate with a sprinkle of cocoa and some caramelized nut crumbs . The persimmon and cocoa puddings are ready to serve .
The persimmon and cocoa pudding can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
If the persimmons don't seem sweet enough, try using sweetened cocoa or add a little sugar to the pudding.

