name:
Roast stuffed with plums and walnuts with mustard
ingredients:
Pork loin: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Old-fashioned mustard: 2 ¾tbsp(40 g)
Dried prunes: 2.1oz(60 g)
Dried apricots: 2oz(60 g)
Walnut kernels: ½cup(60 g)
Whole peeled hazelnuts: ½cup(60 g)
Sweet Pancetta: 10.6oz(300 g)- sliced
Brandy: 1.2oz(35 g)
Shallot: 1
Marjoram: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 3 ½cups(400 g)
Butter: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Garlic: 2cloves

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
Are you looking for a refined and succulent second course for your Christmas menu? We propose our roast stuffed with plums and walnuts with mustard, a rich and tasty roll, perfect to serve on the occasion of the lavish holiday lunches. We have not left anything to chance, every detail is carefully explained to allow you to replicate this special meat dish at home, complete with a tantalizing side dish based on potatoes and mushrooms. Since everything is allowed at Christmas, we wrapped the loin roll with slices of bacon to create an inviting golden crust on the outside. The filling is rich in dried fruit and plums which will give a sweet and sour touch to the dish. Tempt your guests' palates with a sumptuous 5-star roast!
To prepare the roast stuffed with plums and walnuts with mustard, clean and chop the shallot , finely chop rosemary, marjoram, and thyme . Cut the plums and apricots into pieces .
Chop the nuts . In a non-stick pan, melt the butter with the chopped shallot, add the aromatic herbs and let them flavor for a few moments .
Add the dried and dehydrated fruit and toast until golden . Let cool slightly and meanwhile open the loin by cutting with a sharp knife to obtain a large single slice .
Slightly pound it and spread the old-style mustard on the meat , add just a pinch of salt and pepper, sprinkle with the cooled filling .
Roll up the meat . Distribute the slices of sweet bacon on the cutting board, one close to the other .

Place the roll on top and wrap the surface, including the sides . Tie the roast with string .
Briefly sear in a pan with oil on all sides , deglaze with a small glass of brandy and flambé, let the alcohol evaporate .
Transfer the roast to a baking dish with its cooking juices . Bake in a static oven, preheated to 392°F, for about 50 minutes, turning halfway through cooking. Meanwhile, cut the potatoes into wedges , clean the mushrooms and quarter them .
In a pan, melt the butter and flavor it with garlic . Add the potatoes and rosemary . Sauté the potatoes until golden.
Add the mushrooms as well and continue cooking for a few minutes . Your roast is ready to be served!
It is recommended to consume immediately, but it can be kept for up to a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can replace the dried and dehydrated fruit to your liking, if you want to make your roast even richer, you can use lard instead of bacon.
You can prepare an accompanying sauce with butter, cream, old-style mustard, and garlic.

