name:
Christmas Tree Brownies
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 7.1oz(200 g)
Butter: 0.8cup(175 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2spoonfuls
Baking powder: 1tsp
Whole peeled hazelnuts: ½cup(60 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Eggs: 2- medium
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Lemon juice: - a few drops
Egg whites: 1- (about 30 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Food coloring: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste
Colored candy decorations: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
The Christmas tree brownies are delightful and cute single-serving desserts, a simple recipe that will enrich your Christmas menu. The base of these sweets is the brownie , a typical American dessert made with dark chocolate and hazelnuts that, for the Christmas festivities, we decided to cut into tree shapes using a simple cookie cutter. To make these treats even more charming, each little tree has been decorated with royal icing and some colored sugar candies. The Christmas tree brownies can also be completed with wooden sticks inserted at the base. They will surely be very appreciated!
To make the Christmas tree brownies, start by preparing the cake: using a knife, cut the dark chocolate into fairly small pieces . Melt the butter in a bain-marie over low heat, then add the chocolate :
when it begins to melt, add the unsweetened cocoa powder . Continue stirring, allowing everything to melt into a thick, smooth cream . Once the ingredients are completely combined, turn off the heat and let it cool slightly. Separately, beat the eggs with the sugar using a stand mixer or an electric whisk ,
then slowly add the now lukewarm chocolate mixture . In a bowl, sift the flour , add the baking powder , a pinch of salt, and mix well to combine all the ingredients.
Add the flour with the baking powder to the chocolate mixture , one spoonful at a time, mixing well and being careful not to form lumps. On a cutting board, roughly chop the hazelnuts using a knife, then add them to the batter .
Now pour the mixture into a 8x11 inch rectangular mold, lined with parchment paper , and bake everything in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 20 minutes. When the cake is ready, let it rest for about ten minutes before removing it from the pan. After this time, cut the brownie, now cold, horizontally in half and cut from the two rectangles obtained 10 tree shapes using a cookie cutter . If you don't have the cutter, you can cut the cake into equal triangles (with the base 3 inches long and the sides 3.5 inches).
Here's how your little trees look . Now prepare the royal icing by beating with whisks an egg white, the powdered sugar, and a few drops of lemon juice (for more details on how to prepare royal icing Royal icing . Divide the icing into two equal parts and color one part light green (or the color you prefer), using food coloring, then transfer both into a piping bag.
Now decorate the little trees by drawing zigzag lines on the surface of each one or outlining the edges . Finally, place the colored candies on the still fresh icing to make them stick. Finally, take wooden sticks and insert them at the base of each tree ; if desired, finish with a sprinkle of powdered sugar.
Store the Christmas tree brownies in a tin box for up to 5 days. If you wish, you can freeze the brownies once baked and not yet decorated. When ready to use, defrost them at room temperature and proceed as per the recipe for decoration.
You can use food colorings in gel, powder, or liquid form interchangeably. If desired, you can replace the wooden sticks with lollipop candies. Instead of royal icing, you can use white chocolate melted in a bain-marie and optionally colored. If you like, you can replace the sugar candies with currants.

