name:
Savory Christmas Cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: 5tbsp(75 g)
Corn oil: 5tbsp(75 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)- cold
Fine salt: to taste
Pink peppercorn: to taste
Fennel seeds: to taste
Dried chili pepper: to taste
Poppy seeds: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Rosemary: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Baking cookies during the holiday season is one of the favorite activities for both adults and children! This time, however, we are not talking about the classic decorated sweets , but a delightful appetizer to bring directly to the table: savory Christmas cookies. A recipe without eggs, butter, yeast, and especially without resting times, which you can make even at the last minute (like the puff pastry Christmas tree ) in case of a dinner with friends, for example. Personalize the savory Christmas cookies by using a different spice for each one, and you'll surely make everyone happy, from the oldest to the youngest! And if you're looking for a sweet version of Christmas cookies, also try the Lebkuchen !
To make the savory Christmas cookies, first prepare the dough: pour the flour into a bowl, add the grated Grana Padano and a pinch of salt , and mix with a fork .
Add the seed oil and olive oil and mix again with the fork to obtain a crumbly mixture .
Finally, add the water and knead with your hands until you form a compact and homogeneous dough ball .
Roll out the dough with a rolling pin on a lightly floured surface to a thickness of about 1/4 inch , then cut the cookies using a Christmas tree-shaped cookie cutter . Knead the scraps again to make more cookies and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Garnish each cookie with a different spice or a mix of various spices .
Once ready , bake the cookies in a preheated fan oven at 350°F for about 25 minutes, until they are slightly golden . Let them cool slightly and serve your savory Christmas cookies !
The savory Christmas cookies can be stored at room temperature for 3-4 days. The dough can be frozen.
Use only extra virgin olive oil for a stronger flavor or only seed oil for a more delicate taste.

