name:
Duck with Orange
ingredients:
Duck: 4.4lbs(2.3 kg)
Orange juice: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)- melted
Grand Marnier liqueur: 4oz(110 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Thyme: 3sprigs
Rosemary: 1sprig
Oranges: 3slices
White wine: 2tbsp(30 g)
Water: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Potatoes: 1lb(450 g)
Rosemary: 5sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Cornstarch: 2tbsp(15 g)
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Oranges: 1
Water: 4tsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Duck with orange is a perfect main course for Sunday lunches or as a main dish for celebrations like Christmas! A fine meat, with a strong and aromatic flavor that pairs perfectly with the scents and citrus aromas typical of orange. A combination always considered sophisticated and reserved for special occasions. Contrary to popular belief, this dish is exquisitely Italian, more precisely Florentine, and its origins date back to the 15th century when citrus juice was used as a meat preservative. The Tuscan dish once known as "papero alla melarancia" was, most likely, exported to France by Catherine de Medici after her marriage to Henry II of France. The queen indeed brought with her a retinue of cooks who maintained many of the Tuscan culinary traditions. The recipe that has reached us today is succulent and inviting: the duck cooks with aromas in the oven and is flavored with a delicious caramelized orange sauce that creates an irresistible golden crust during cooking. Traditionally served with roasted potatoes , duck with orange is a dish with a pleasantly sweet and sour flavor that will make your holiday menus unique!
Try these recipes with duck as well:

To prepare duck with orange, start with a duck already cleaned of internal organs, fat, and any remaining feathers, if possible, otherwise, you'll need to clean it thoroughly before using it in the recipe. Remove any remaining feathers by singeing them with a blowtorch , then rinse the duck thoroughly under running water inside and out and dry it perfectly with a kitchen cloth. Proceed to tie it: using elastic food-grade string (available at any housewares store), knot the wings by passing through the shoulders and tying the legs over the belly . This will help to keep the whole duck in shape during cooking. In a large pan, heat the oil, then add the excess duck fat set aside , and let it stew for a few minutes.
Place the duck and brown it over medium heat on one side and the other; then deglaze with Grand Marnier and drizzle with the cooking juices .
Meanwhile, slice the oranges and when the duck is well browned, transfer it to a high-sided baking dish and fill it with three slices of orange , thyme, and rosemary .
Brush the duck with 2 3/4 tablespoons of melted butter , salt it, pepper it , and pour about 1/4 cup of orange juice on the bottom of the baking dish.
the white wine and 1 1/3 tablespoons of water . Before transferring it to the oven, cover the duck with a sheet of aluminum foil, pricking it with a fork to facilitate cooking and to prevent the surface of your duck from burning. Transfer to a preheated static oven at 392°F and cook the duck using a probe until it reaches 158°F at the core: it will take about 1 hour and 10 minutes.
Also prepare the potatoes that will go in the oven separately but at the same temperature as the duck: wash them thoroughly and clean them with a kitchen cloth, then cut them into wedges of equal size as much as possible, leaving the skin on ; season them in a bowl with oil , salt, and pepper. Then transfer them to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and season with rosemary . Place in the oven along with the duck (you can place them on the lower rack of the oven); they should cook at the same temperature for about 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, focus on the sauce: take the orange, peel it with a peeler , squeeze the juice and strain it: you will need 5 1/4 oz. Then blanch the orange peels for a few moments in boiling water , then drain them
and slice them into very thin strips . Prepare the sauce by melting the sugar with the water over very low heat : you need to reach a temperature of 330°F using a kitchen thermometer and at that point pour in the strained orange juice ;
stir with a whisk to emulsify everything and add a few tablespoons of the duck's cooking juices and the cornstarch dissolved in 1 1/3 tablespoons of water . Continue working the sauce with the whisk until it thickens, then turn off and strain the sauce through a sieve ,
then add the finely sliced orange peels (28-29) and set aside. Once the core temperature is reached, remove the duck from the oven, discard the aluminum foil, brush it with the orange sauce , and grill for about 5-10 minutes (time varies depending on the oven's power) to brown it well.
Once well browned, remove your duck from the oven and the potatoes that will have finished cooking , serve the duck with orange on a serving dish along with the potatoes and use the orange sauce to drizzle over the slices you will serve your guests.
Store the duck with orange in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 1-2 days. It can be frozen if you have used fresh, not defrosted ingredients.
If you don't have a roast probe, you can monitor the cooking state of the duck by skewering it with a long toothpick and checking that it is moist inside, with a slight exudation of pink liquid; if it becomes dry, it is overcooked, while if too many juices come out, it will be too early to remove from the oven.
If you are looking for less laborious pairings, come and browse our selection of 30-minute recipes for Christmas.
FOCUS : The guide to the best Slow Cookers on the market

