name:
Lentil Salad with Bacon and Vegetables
ingredients:
Dried lentils: 1cup(200 g)- shady
Smoked pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Carrots: 0.9cup(100 g)
Brussels sprouts: 7.1oz(200 g)
Lamb's lettuce: 3cups(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 2 hours of soaking the lentils (optional)

instructions:
Lentils, small nuggets as versatile as they are rich in properties. We have already whetted your appetite with the mushroom and lentil savory pie and delicious Lentil meatballs ! Today we present an original way to serve them as a side dish, a colorful and tasty lentil salad that you can personalize to your liking. For example, we have chosen Brussels sprouts, lamb's lettuce, and crunchy carrots to make this dish lively and appealing just by looking at it. Don't miss out on this goodness, because lentil salad is really tasty, not just in winter... try the version with tomatoes and spring onions for example!
To prepare the lentil salad, start by rinsing them and soaking them in plenty of cold water for about 2 hours , this will only slightly reduce the cooking times of the lentils. Then drain and rinse them to remove any impurities . In a saucepan, pour some water and as soon as it boils, cook the lentils for 40 minutes .
If you notice foam on the surface, simply remove it with a skimmer . Adjust the salt only at the end, and when cooked, drain them and let them cool . In the meantime, take care of the other ingredients. Finely chop the shallot and set it aside .
Then cut the smoked bacon into strips of about 1-2 inches . Slice the carrot into sticks after trimming it . Finally, take care of the Brussels sprouts, peeling them
and rinsing them under running water . Dry them with paper towels and cut them into wedges . At this point, you can proceed to cooking. Sauté the shallot in the oil for a few minutes over low heat, stirring occasionally, then add the bacon pieces .
After 2-3 minutes, add the carrots and Brussels sprouts , season with salt and pepper, and cook over high heat for 7-8 minutes. After these few minutes, add the lentils and continue cooking for another 4-5 minutes.
Finally, with the heat off, add the lamb's lettuce (already washed and drained) , stir while the mixture is still warm to combine the flavors well . At this point, you just need to serve your lentil salad slightly warm or, why not, even cold !
It is recommended to consume the lentil salad immediately. If you prefer to store it, you can keep it in a glass container for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
You can personalize your lentil salad by adding your favorite seasonal vegetables. In summer, for example, some bell pepper cubes or matchstick zucchini, in winter instead cauliflower or beetroot. Want to add an evergreen? Simple: sun-dried tomatoes in oil!

