name:
Chocolate Liqueur
ingredients:
Whole milk: 3 ¼cups(750 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Pure alcohol: 5.3oz(150 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 1 ¼cup(100 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
If you are looking for a homemade gift idea to delight your gourmet friends, our recipe is just for you: with its sweet and round flavor, voluptuous and dense consistency, the chocolate liqueur will win over everyone's hearts and palates, especially lovers of classic hot chocolate ! Small bottles to give as gifts at Christmas or on special occasions, but not only: a small stock of chocolate liqueur is a must-have in the fridge for those who love to enjoy a moment of warmth and sweetness on cold winter evenings, alone or in company. And for the more indulgent, the versatility of this 'liquid delight' will have no boundaries: added to ice cream for sumptuous sundaes, paired with salted butter cookies to warm up by the fireplace, or even to jazz up coffee , the chocolate liqueur will always offer new pleasures... always irresistible!
If you love homemade liqueurs, also try these variations:
To prepare the chocolate liqueur, start by combining the milk and cream in a large pot . Add the sugar and start heating the mixture. Also add the cocoa
Immediately start mixing with a whisk to prevent lumps from forming . Continue stirring with the whisk and gently bring to a boil . Let it simmer for about 10 minutes, continuing to stir; then add the coarsely chopped chocolate
Mix carefully until it melts, turn off the heat and let it cool slightly. Finally, add the alcohol , and mix it thoroughly as well. Strain the mixture through a fine mesh sieve to prevent any remaining lumps. Once completely cooled, distribute the chocolate liqueur into clean and completely dry bottles . Seal the bottles tightly, store them in the fridge, and let the liqueur mature for 20-30 days before consumption, so the alcohol flavor becomes softer and less intrusive. Shake the liqueur before consuming it.
The bottled chocolate liqueur can be stored in the refrigerator for about 90 days. It is recommended to wait at least 20 days before enjoying it, as it will initially taste very alcoholic. Always shake the liqueur before serving it. We do not recommend storing it in the freezer.
Personalizing and making your chocolate liqueur truly unique is easy and fun: infuse cardamom, orange peels, or chili in the milk overnight before proceeding with the recipe!

