name:
Chocolate and nougat salami
ingredients:
Cookies: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: 10.6tbsp(150 g)- soft
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
White nougat: 2.1oz(60 g)- hard
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 5tbsp(30 g)
Eggs: 4.25oz(120 g)- (about 2 medium)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time (at least 6 h in the fridge or 2 h in the freezer)

instructions:
The nougat is a traditional holiday dessert that can also be used to create numerous sweet treats, such as a refined semifreddo or an original Nougat cheesecake ! If you're looking for a particularly simple and quick idea, however, we recommend trying the chocolate and nougat salami, a Christmas variation of the classic homemade dessert. Soft and crunchy at the same time thanks to the addition of dry biscuits and chopped nougat, the chocolate and nougat salami will be perfect for a delicious snack or to accompany a cheerful game of bingo with friends... being ideal to prepare in advance, it also won't take time away from the dinner preparations!
To prepare the chocolate and nougat salami, first place the pieces of nougat in a mixer and chop it for a few seconds at maximum speed , then roughly break the dry biscuits with your hands .
In a bowl, put the softened butter together with the sugar and work with electric beaters to obtain a creamy mixture , then add the broken biscuits .
Also add the unsweetened cocoa powder , the chopped nougat , and the eggs .
Mix with a spoon until you get a homogeneous mixture . Pour the mixture onto the center of a sheet of parchment paper, lift the bottom edge and roll it up completely, then twist the ends to seal the cylinder . Let it set in the refrigerator for at least 6 hours, or better yet, overnight. Alternatively, you can put it in the freezer for a couple of hours.
After the cooling time has passed, remove the parchment paper and cover the salami with plenty of powdered sugar . Your chocolate and nougat salami is ready to be served !
The chocolate and nougat salami can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days, in an airtight container. You can also freeze it, maybe sliced.
If you wish, you can flavor the mixture with a few drops of rum or orange flavor.

