name:
Risotto with Scallops and Citrus
ingredients:
Rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)- Great Risotto
Scallops: 12
Oranges: 1
Lemons: 1
Lime peel: 1
Shallot: 2
Prosecco: 1.7oz(50 g)
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Chives: to taste
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- cold
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Note + the resting time of the scallops in the fridge (20 min.)

instructions:
Risotto with scallops and citrus is a refined and surprising first course. The delicacy of scallops pairs perfectly with the fresh and fragrant notes of citrus, delivering a balance of flavors that captivates at first taste. The secret of this dish lies in the attention to detail, which will allow you to achieve a creamy and delicate risotto: the perfect cooking of the scallops and the velvety cream made with the coral. Risotto with scallops and citrus is ideal for serving on special occasions, during holidays, or when you want to impress your guests by bringing a gourmet dish to the table.
Don't miss these first course dishes with scallops as well:

To prepare the risotto with scallops and citrus, first, release the fruit from the shell , separate the coral from the nut and set aside. Place the nuts in a bowl and season with oil .
Season with salt and pepper . Stir gently and let rest in the refrigerator for 20 minutes. Pour the oil into a pan, add the shallot and let it turn golden brown.
Add the corals , pour a glass of water , and cook for a minute. Adjust with salt .
Transfer everything into a glass and blend with an immersion blender until you get a smooth and homogeneous cream .
Grate the zest of the orange , lemon , and lime .
Extract the juice of the orange and the lemon . Heat a non-stick pan well and cook the scallops for 30 seconds on each side .
Deglaze with orange and lemon juice . Set aside both the scallops and the cooking juices. In a pot, pour a swirl of oil, add the rice , and toast for a few minutes. Deglaze with prosecco and when all the alcohol has evaporated, pour slightly salted water or fish broth. Add a ladle of water each time the previous one has been absorbed by the rice and cook until done.
When there are 5 minutes left for cooking, add the coral cream . Once the rice is done cooking, turn off the heat, add the butter and Parmesan .
Add also the citrus zests and stir. Plate, place the scallops on top of the risotto , and add a sprinkle of black pepper .
Finish with freshly chopped chives and the scallop cooking juices . The risotto with scallops and citrus is ready to be served !
The risotto with scallops and citrus should be consumed as soon as it's ready, but if there are leftovers, you can store it in the refrigerator in a closed container for a maximum of 1 day.
For an aromatic touch, you can add saffron dissolved in hot broth.
During the cooking of the rice, you can add asparagus cut into slices; their delicate flavor pairs very well with scallops!

