name:
Shrimp and Lemon Ravioli
ingredients:
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(200 g)
Shrimps: 0.9lb(400 g)- Argentinian, tails
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1.1cups(280 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Thyme: 3sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High
Note plus the resting times for the dough

instructions:
The fish ravioli are a traditional homemade first course perfect for special occasions! Today we bring you the recipe for preparing delicious shrimp and lemon ravioli: egg pasta parcels that hide a refined filling with a delicate flavor. Shrimp and lemon ravioli can be dressed in countless ways, with a simple sauce made from cherry tomatoes, or with cream and a bit of saffron or Shrimp and Lemon Ravioli with Butter and Thyme to not overpower the flavor of the filling... a filling made so soft thanks to the addition of ricotta and so fragrant thanks to the lemon and thyme leaves! Are you ready to get your hands dirty?!
To prepare shrimp and lemon ravioli, first make the fresh pasta dough. In a bowl, pour the flour, add the lightly beaten eggs , and start incorporating them with a fork. Then work the mixture with your hands ,
until you have a uniform dough ball . Transfer it to a work surface and knead for about 5 minutes ; wrap the obtained dough in plastic wrap and let it rest for at least 30 minutes at room temperature.
In the meantime, clean the shrimp tails. Remove the shell by pulling it off with your hands , then cut along the back of each shrimp and gently remove the black vein .
Coarsely chop the shrimp (10-11). In a bowl, work the ricotta together with salt and pepper .
Then add the thyme leaves , grated lemon zest , and shrimp .
Mix to combine all the ingredients , cover with plastic wrap , and transfer to the refrigerator. Once the dough has rested, take a piece , making sure to cover the remaining part with the plastic wrap to prevent it from drying out.
Flatten it slightly with your hands using a bit of flour , then roll it out using a pasta machine, gradually reducing the roller thickness until you get a rectangular sheet about 1/8 inch thick . Repeat the same operation to obtain two sheets of the same size .
On one of the sheets, place the filling in small piles of about 0.7 oz, spacing them about 1 1/4 inches apart (22-23). Brush the edges of the pasta with a bit of water ; this will help the two sheets stick together.
Cover with the other pasta sheet, aligning the edges and applying slight pressure with your fingertips between the filling piles to remove air and prevent them from opening during cooking and spilling the filling. Use a pastry cutter with a 2 3/4 inch diameter to cut out the first ravioli .
Do the same for the others and remove the excess pasta between each ravioli . Re-knead the pasta scraps and let them rest before rolling out the sheet again and making more ravioli. Continue this way until you've used all the ingredients, placing the obtained ravioli on a floured cloth as you go .
Once prepared, we recommend cooking the ravioli immediately; alternatively, you can store the shrimp ravioli in the freezer for up to 1 month. To freeze them, follow this method: place the tray with the ravioli in the freezer for a couple of hours or until hardened, then transfer them to freezer bags. When you want to use them, take the bag out of the freezer and cook them in plenty of salted water while still frozen.
You can use rosemary or parsley instead of thyme.

