name:
Puff Pastry with Smoked Swordfish
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1- rectangular 230 g
Smoked swordfish: 8- slices
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Sunflower seeds: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Mixed ground pepper: to taste
Whole milk: to taste
Lime peel: 1
Water: ¼cup(50 g)
Sugar: 1- teaspoon
Coarse salt: ½tsp

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 25 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Unroll the puff pastry , season it with a crunchy mix, and garnish with smoked swordfish and lime zest. Don't believe that an appetizer can be prepared in such a short time? Then we will surprise you with the recipe for puff pastry bites with smoked swordfish. An easy and quick snack to accompany with a fresh wine, perhaps even a Bellini cocktail , to start the evening right. You'll discover that this snack is perfect especially during the Christmas holidays, where a rich buffet cannot be without the classic canapés and now the puff pastry bites with smoked swordfish!
To prepare the puff pastry bites with smoked swordfish, start with the lime. After washing and drying it, peel it with the help of a peeler, making sure to take only the green part and then cut it into julienne strips with a knife . Pour the water, sugar ,
salt into a small pot and turn on the stove until they dissolve. Then dip the lime zest , cover with plastic wrap, or a lid, and let it marinate for at least 15 minutes .
Meanwhile, mix the Grana cheese with a generous grind of pepper and sunflower seeds . Unroll a puff pastry sheet onto a baking tray using the baking paper already present, and prick the surface with a pastry docker or the prongs of a fork .
Brush the surface with milk and then sprinkle with the previous mix: press lightly to make the sunflower seeds adhere well . Bake the pastry in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 12 minutes .
Let the pastry cool slightly before cutting it into 2.3x2 inch rectangles, obtaining 25 pieces . At this point, place the slices of smoked swordfish on a cutting board and get 25 strips , roll the strips onto themselves to obtain rolls .
Then place the rolls on the puff pastry bites and garnish with the drained zest and a pinch of pepper . Your puff pastry bites with smoked swordfish are ready !
Once ready, the puff pastry bites with smoked swordfish are recommended to be consumed immediately. Alternatively, you can store the pastry, without the fish, for a few days covered with plastic wrap, bearing in mind that the texture will gradually be lost.
With Christmas approaching, lime, and citrus fruits in general, will give that touch of festivity and freshness to the recipe. Therefore, you can flavor the puff pastry bites with smoked swordfish with other citrus fruits such as orange, grapefruit, or lemon. If you want to create a tart mix, just add some currant berries.

