name:
Linguine with Scampi
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Scampi: 12- (approximately 700 g)
Tomato purée: 1.7cups(400 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Shallot: 2
Parsley: 5- stalks
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Ground black pepper: 5

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Linguine with scampi is among the top traditional recipes for Christmas holidays and to celebrate the most important occasions. Their flavor, which also pairs well with cognac , is for truly refined palates who will surely appreciate the delicate, fresh taste with very light sweet notes. But even curious palates will become very passionate about the linguine with scampi recipe, as it provides a variation from versions with Pasta with zucchini cream and shrimp or scampi and shrimp cream . A very elegant and beautiful first course to see but above all tasty, especially thanks to a particular, yet indispensable, cooking technique: the shellfish broth . This is indeed a real trick because instead of throwing away the scampi scraps, they will be used to obtain a flavorful seasoning that will enrich your sauce.
If you are looking for other recipes for the holidays, also try:
To prepare the linguine with scampi, start by cleaning them: gently detach the head of 8 scampi (leave the other 4 whole) . Using a toothpick, extract the black vein inside and then remove the shell ; keep the scraps because they will be needed for the broth. For the other 4 whole scampi, make an incision on the belly with a pair of scissors.
Then clean and coarsely chop the shallots . In a pot, heat a drizzle of oil and add the shallots and the scampi scraps .
Add the pepper , parsley with stems , and sauté everything over high heat, stirring occasionally. After a couple of minutes, deglaze with the white wine .
As soon as the alcohol has evaporated, pour in the water , bring to a boil and then cover with a lid, letting it cook over medium heat for about 40 minutes. When the broth is ready, strain it through a sieve; you will have obtained approximately 21 oz of liquid .

Meanwhile, in a pan, pour a round of oil and add the peeled garlic cloves. As soon as the base is hot, toss in the 4 whole scampi and the 8 tails . Let them flavor for a few moments, then deglaze with white wine and continue cooking for a couple of minutes over high heat . Set the scampi aside and keep them covered with a plate .
In the pan with the base, add the tomato puree , wet with the broth, leaving aside a couple of ladles, and let it cook over low heat for about 15-20 minutes, adjusting with salt and pepper . Meanwhile, you can put a pot of water on the stove, when it boils, salt it and cook the linguine for 3 minutes .

Drain them directly into the pan with the sauce, so they can finish cooking . If needed, wet with the reserved broth until the pasta is cooked . When the linguine is cooked, incorporate the scampi sautéed in the pan ,

and flavor with chopped parsley , another drizzle of raw oil, and mix gently . Serve the linguine with scampi still hot .
It is recommended to consume the linguine with scampi immediately. You can freeze the seasoning if you have used all fresh products.
Looking for a version without tomato? Normally boil the pasta in water, then finish cooking it for a couple of minutes with the broth.

