name:
Christmas Tree Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 12
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(120 g)
Hazelnuts: 1cup(140 g)
Almonds: 1cup(140 g)
Sugar: 1.4cups(280 g)
Coffee: - 4 small cups (to soak the cake)
Butter: 0.9cup(200 g)
Powdered sugar: 1.67cups(200 g)
Egg yolks: 4
Dark chocolate: 6.4oz(180 g)
Coffee: 4spoonfuls
Butter: ¾cup(200 g)
Powdered sugar: 1.4cups(200 g)
Dark chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Water: to taste
Food coloring: to taste- red and green
Sprinkles: - colored and silver sugar balls
Almond slices: to taste
Chocolate: 200- in flakes

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 12
Cost: Average

instructions:
The Christmas Tree Cake is a dessert to serve as an alternative to the classic panettone and pandoro. The batter is made without flour; instead, breadcrumbs with chopped hazelnuts and almonds are used. The frosting and filling creams are butter-based. The final touch is the decorations made with icings and colorful sugar balls, where you can unleash your creativity and enrich your Christmas Tree Cake as you like best.
First, chop the almonds and hazelnuts in a mixer . Then, beat the egg yolks very well with half of the sugar until they become a thick and creamy mixture, then pour them into a bowl . Add the chopped nuts to the beaten eggs and mix everything together.
Then incorporate the breadcrumbs , mix well, and then add the egg whites previously beaten to stiff peaks with the remaining sugar . Butter and flour the mold where you will bake the cake .
Pour the batter into the cake pan and place it in a pre-heated oven for 45 minutes at 320°F. While the cake is baking, prepare the creams. For the filling, melt the chocolate, previously coarsely chopped with a knife, in a saucepan over very low heat along with the coffee . In a mixer, work the butter with powdered sugar and the egg yolks .
When the mixture is smooth, add the amount of chocolate (now lukewarm) needed for the cream and mix everything together . Proceed in the same way to prepare the topping cream, being careful that the ingredient quantities are different. When the cake is baked, cut it in half and soak it with the coffee you prepared earlier .
Pour the filling cream and spread it with the help of a knife blade . Then cover it and focus on the topping .
Spread the chocolate cream on the surface and, with the help of a spatula with pointed ends (alternatively use a fork), draw lines to simulate pine needles . With the green icing (prepared by mixing powdered sugar and boiling water as needed to get a thick mixture), create some lines by going over some grooves created with the spatula .
With the red icing, create small circles that you will fill with sugar or colorful sprinkles . Arrange the almond petals on the entire surface .
Sprinkle the edges of the cake with chocolate sprinkles and with a pastry bag, give the final touch with buttercream tufts all around the cake (23-24). Best wishes!

