name:
Crostini with Marinated Salmon
ingredients:
Baguette: 8slices
Salmon fillets: 9.2oz(260 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Lemon juice: 3tbsp(45 g)
White wine vinegar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Dill: 3sprigs
Red pepper: to taste
Vegetable oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Soy milk: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
White wine vinegar: 1tsp
Arugula: 0.7oz(20 g)
Lemon peel: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 4 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 24 h for marinating

instructions:
We know bruschetta for their rustic and informal character, a practical solution to enjoy as an appetizer or for a standing dinner with friends, but they can also reveal an unexpected gourmet side! After creating the tartare on bruschetta for meat lovers and the Bruschetta with burrata and vegetables for vegetarian foodies, today we delight you with a refined seafood version for those who adore raw fish: crostini with marinated salmon! The intense flavor of the fresh marinated salmon is accompanied by the delicate taste of faux mayonnaise and is enhanced by the pungent notes of arugula and pink peppercorns. Of course, the pairing with lemon zest is essential, helping to cleanse and refresh the palate, preparing it for the next bite! If you're looking for a summer dish to impress with minimal effort, prepare the crostini with marinated salmon and let your guests do the talking…
To make the crostini with marinated salmon, first prepare the marinade: in a kitchen squeeze bottle, pour the white wine vinegar , olive oil , and lemon juice .
Shake well to emulsify everything and move on to the salmon, which you will first cut in half lengthwise and then into slices about 0.4 inches thick .
Pour part of the marinade into a baking dish, add a grind of pink pepper and lay the salmon slices on the bottom . Season with salt and pink pepper,
add some dill and cover with the marinade , then continue in this way, alternating salmon slices, seasonings, and the marinade until all ingredients are used. Cover the baking dish with plastic wrap and leave it in the refrigerator to marinate for 24 hours.
After the marinating time, cut the bread into slices 1-1.2 inches thick , transfer them onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and drizzle with olive oil , salt, and black pepper. Preheat the oven to 464°F and bake the bread slices for 3-4 minutes with the grill on, then remove them from the oven and let them cool.
In the meantime, prepare the faux mayonnaise: in a tall and narrow container, pour the vegetable oil , white wine vinegar , soy milk , and a pinch of salt.
Blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a thick and creamy sauce . Take the marinated salmon from the refrigerator and start assembling the crostini: spread the faux mayonnaise on the bread slices ,
add a tuft of arugula, which you have previously washed and dried, add a couple of slices of marinated salmon , and some grated lemon zest . Finally, season with a pinch of salt and a grind of pink pepper. Your crostini with marinated salmon are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the crostini with marinated salmon immediately. The salmon can be stored in the marinade for up to 2 days in the refrigerator.
If you prefer, you can replace the arugula with grilled zucchini or make a classic mayonnaise instead of the faux one!
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not fully cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at -0.4°F in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, according to the Ministry of Health guidelines .

