name:
Bisque
ingredients:
Shrimps: 2lbs(900 g)- (or 1 pound of leftover shells)
Fish fumet: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Carnaroli rice: ½cup(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(50 g)
Celery: ½cup(50 g)
Carrots: 2oz(50 g)
Onions: 0.3cup(50 g)
Butter: 8 ½tbsp(120 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cognac: 1.1oz(30 g)
White wine: 0.3cup(80 g)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Thyme: 2sprigs
Parsley: 2sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 2
Cost: High

instructions:
Bisque is a creamy soup made from shellfish, originating from French cuisine. Thanks to its velvety texture and intense, rich flavor, bisque has become one of the most popular shellfish soups worldwide. Although it shares many ingredients, bisque should not be confused with shellfish broth , a delicate broth widely used in cooking fish-based recipes. Today, we're showing you how to make a delicious shrimp bisque, but you can use any type of shellfish, such as langoustines, crabs, lobsters, or a mix of these. To make it, as per the classic procedure, rice is also needed, but only for the cooking part. It will then be removed: the rice will release all its starch into the bisque, resulting in a truly creamy outcome. Bisque is a very versatile dish that can be served as an appetizer or a main course. It can be accompanied by toasted bread croutons to add crunchiness and contrast to its creamy flavor. If you're looking for an original and delicious recipe to serve to your guests, you can't go wrong with bisque, an elegant and refined soup that will satisfy even the most demanding palates. Here are other fish soups not to be missed:
To prepare the bisque, first make the fish stock following our recipe. Clean the shrimp. Using your hands, gently remove the head , the legs , and the shell. Collect all the scraps in a bowl; you will need about 17.5 ounces (500 g) for this preparation. Not all the shrimp you clean are necessary for making the bisque, just 3-4 per person, and you can use the others for your recipes. Then prepare the soffritto, clean the celery thoroughly, and cut it into strips .
Peel the carrot and cut it to the same size as the celery . Also peel the onion .
Coarsely chop the onion as well . Then take a large pot and place 1.5 tablespoons (20 g) of butter inside ; let it melt and add the soffritto vegetables .
Stir to flavor , then add the shell scraps and increase the heat. Stir occasionally; a crust should form on the bottom .
Add salt , pepper , and deglaze with the cognac .
Then pour in the white wine and let the alcohol evaporate completely for a few minutes. Add the aromatic herbs and pour in the fish stock .
Let it cook over medium heat for about 30 minutes , stirring occasionally. Once ready, strain it into another saucepan with a fine-mesh chinoise , pressing the heads well with a ladle so that all the juices come out .
Place it back on the stove and bring to a boil. Add the rice and cook for about 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. This way, the rice will release all its starch into the bisque. Strain the bisque again with a fine-mesh chinoise into another saucepan.
Press well with the back of a ladle and return the bisque to the stove . Add the remaining 7 tablespoons (100 g) of butter .
Add the cream and stir until well combined . If necessary, adjust the salt and pepper.
Cut the shrimp into small pieces . Serve the bisque with a quenelle of shrimp on top and enjoy it hot !
You can store the bisque in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, without the shrimp tartare. If you prefer, you can freeze the liquid obtained at step "22" and then proceed with the rest of the preparation once thawed.
Instead of fish stock, you can use any fish broth, or even vegetable broth, but note that it will be less flavorful. If you prefer, you can cook the shrimp in the bisque during the last few minutes.

