name:
Pomegranate Duck
ingredients:
Duck breast: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (2 breasts)
Pomegranate: 2lbs(900 g)- (2 fruits)
White onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(25 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½tsp(4 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 36 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Pomegranate, the fruit of good fortune with its characteristic tangy taste, has been a true revelation in the kitchen! We have experimented with a risotto , a main course of Pomegranate Chicken Strips , and even a Panna cotta with pomegranate jelly to accompany panna cotta for an unconventional dessert. Tradition dictates that this fruit with its amaranth-colored seeds is always present on the Christmas table, and to honor this custom, we offer you an excellent New Year’s Eve main dish to make: pomegranate duck, a refined and appetizing dish perfect for festive occasions or any special lunch!
Discover these savory pomegranate recipes as well:
To make the pomegranate duck, first make cuts on the duck breasts' skin with a knife , then season with salt and pepper: the cuts will allow the spices to penetrate and flavor the meat better. Melt 1 tbsp of butter in a pan and place the duck breasts skin-side down to sear for 4 minutes over high heat .
Then turn the meat and sear the other side for another 4 minutes . Cut a pomegranate in half and squeeze 1/2 cup of juice with a citrus juicer .
Pour 1/3 of the pomegranate juice over the meat and continue cooking over medium heat for about 16 minutes, taking care to turn the breasts halfway through (about 8 minutes on one side and 8 on the other). Do not overcook to prevent the meat from becoming too dry or tough. Once ready , remove the meat from the pan and keep it warm .
Peel half an onion and chop it into fairly large pieces . In another pot, melt the remaining butter, which is about 1 tbsp , add the onion , and sauté over low heat for about 8 minutes.
Once the butter is well-flavored and the onion is golden , you can remove it from the pot. Pour the remaining pomegranate juice, about 1/3 cup , into the same pan, add a pinch of salt, a sprinkle of pepper, and the tip of a tablespoon of flour .
Stir with a whisk to prevent lumps from forming . Let it simmer for a few minutes to thicken slightly . Cut the duck breasts into slices .
On each plate, create a base by pouring 2 tablespoons of pomegranate sauce . Lay the slices of duck on top and drizzle with more sauce . Cut off the top of the other pomegranate, score the skin into sections .
Open the fruit and take 3 tablespoons of pomegranate seeds to sprinkle on the plate and over the duck as decoration. Serve the pomegranate duck hot .
Pomegranate duck should be consumed hot, right after it's ready. If there are leftovers, you can store the dish in the refrigerator for 1 day, covered with plastic wrap or inside an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
While cooking, you can also flavor the dish by adding a sprinkle of nutmeg or cinnamon: the spicy flavors pair perfectly with the pomegranate duck.
If you enjoy this type of meat, try the recipe for grilled duck breast!

