name:
Cappellacci with shrimps and artichokes
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Spinach: ½cup(100 g)- (cooked and drained)
Eggs: 2
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Shrimps: 14
Artichokes: 4
Potatoes: 1
Yellow onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
Tomato paste: 1spoonful
Cognac: 1.1oz(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Marjoram: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Ice: to taste
Water: to taste- cold

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High
Note + 30 minutes of resting time for the fresh pasta

instructions:
The Christmas atmosphere is an ideal occasion to experiment in the kitchen and delight your loved ones with extraordinary dishes, like these appetizing cappellacci with shrimp and artichokes. This year, we offer you a Christmas recipe, perfect for Christmas Eve dinner, which combines the tradition of fresh egg pasta with a touch of innovation and sophistication. The cappellacci, those little hat-shaped fresh pasta crescents, get a bright and vivid color thanks to the addition of spinach in the dough. The combined filling of shrimp, which brings a delicate and marine flavor, and artichokes, which add a touch of acidity and crunchiness, represents a perfect pairing of ingredients that blend into an incredible symphony of flavors. Discover this and other delicious Christmas first courses to enrich your holiday menu!
To prepare the cappellacci with shrimp and artichokes, first, take care of the fresh spinach egg pasta: blanch the spinach in salted boiling water just enough to soften them. Drain and transfer them to a bowl with ice water to maintain the bright green color . Squeeze them with a strainer .
Transfer the spinach into a jug, add the eggs , salt, and a drizzle of oil. Blend with an immersion blender to obtain a cream. On the work surface, pour the flour in a fountain shape, place the spinach cream in the center .
Mix first with a fork then continue by hand until you get a smooth and compact dough . Cover with plastic wrap and leave in the fridge for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the filling: boil the potato until it is soft.
Clean the shrimp and keep the scraps . In a pot, sauté a bit of oil with a coarse chop of carrot, onion, and celery . Add the shrimp cleaning scraps .
Add the marjoram and a tablespoon of tomato paste . Toast everything, then deglaze with cognac and, if you prefer, you can also flambé with caution. Cover with cold water and ice .
Cook the stock for 25 minutes on low heat . Then strain it through a strainer and put it back on low heat until it is reduced, this will take at least 20 minutes.
Now clean the artichokes: separate the stem , remove the tougher outer leaves and peel the tough outer part with a knife . Cut the hearts into wedges and extract the internal fuzz.
Peel the stem as well and cut it into pieces . Keep the cleaned artichokes in lemon water so they don't darken . In a pan, heat a bit of oil with a crushed garlic clove, add the artichokes .
Add salt and white pepper, then sauté them for about ten minutes to soften, adding a splash of water if necessary. Chop the cleaned shrimp and cooked artichokes .
With a potato masher, mash the previously boiled potato to a puree , add shrimp and artichokes , salt, white pepper , and a drizzle of oil, then mix to combine.
Transfer the filling into a piping bag . Retrieve the dough, lightly flour it and pass it through the pasta machine starting from the widest thickness to reach a thickness of about 1/8 to 1/12 inch.
Cut squares of about 2 1/2 x 2 1/2 inches . Fill with the filling by squeezing balls of mixture. Now close the pasta by matching the corners to form a triangle .
Fold the two ends towards the center and join the two ends . Meanwhile, bring water to a boil for the pasta. Transfer the reduced stock to a large pan with a ladle of the cappellacci cooking water. Boil the cappellacci until they rise to the surface , it will take just a few minutes.
Drain the ravioli into the pan with the sauce and sauté briefly, then turn off the heat and toss with a drizzle of oil . Serve your cappellacci with shrimps and artichokes, garnishing the plates with fresh marjoram leaves !
The cappellacci with shrimps and artichokes can be stored in the refrigerator for a day.
The uncooked cappellacci can be frozen on a tray, and once hardened, transferred to freezer bags, for up to 3 months. You can then cook them directly from frozen.
If instead of green pasta you want to make a classic dough, you can take inspiration from the recipe for Cappellacci with Cotechino and Lentil Cream !
The ice serves to create a thermal shock that extracts flavors better.

