name:
Baskets with shrimp and avocado
ingredients:
Phyllo dough: 3fogli
Black sesame seeds: to taste
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)- melted
Shrimps: 12- already cleaned
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Salt: 1tsp
Chestnut honey: 1tsp
Lemon juice: ½
Black pepper: to taste
Avocado: 1
Lime juice: ½
Fine salt: to taste
Tabasco®: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Egg yolks: 2- (of medium eggs)
Mandarin orange juice: 1
Orange peel: 1
Lemon peel: 1
Sunflower seed oil: 1.1cups(250 g)
Salmon roe: 1tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Shrimps are the stars of many appetizers, as easy to prepare as they are good to enjoy... with minimal effort you will achieve the maximum, precisely because their fantastic taste should not be overwhelmed with too many ingredients, but highlighted in a refined way! The best examples are definitely the Shrimp in Crust or those with coconut , but today's recipe will certainly be no less! You will serve baskets with shrimp and avocado that will conquer all your guests, thanks to a crispy phyllo pastry shell and a filling that is delicate yet very tasty! The sesame seeds will release a pleasant flavor in the mouth and you'll be eager to taste another one! Whether it's for a buffet, or for the appetizer of the holidays make these baskets too, and fill them with avocado cream and sweet honey shrimp just a few minutes before serving!
To prepare the baskets with shrimp and avocado, first melt the butter and let it cool slightly. Use it to butter a 12-cup muffin tin and take one of the phyllo sheets, carefully peeling the pastry and keeping the other sheets under a cloth to prevent them from drying out. Cut the phyllo sheet in half lengthwise , and from each half, cut 4 rectangles .
In this way, you will obtain 8 equal rectangles ; for each basket, you will need to use 2 rectangles. Then brush the entire surface of one of the rectangles with the melted butter and place another rectangle on top, ensuring the sides do not align, but the points are slightly offset, forming a sort of star. Brush again with the butter .
and transfer both sheets inside the mold. Press lightly with your fingers to make it adhere well and create a sort of basket . Continue in this way until you finish all the pieces, then cut another sheet and so on until you fill all the cavities of the mold and obtain what will be your 12 baskets. Sprinkle them with black sesame seeds (8-9) and bake the baskets in a fan oven, preheated to 375°F, for 7-8 minutes on the middle shelf.
Meanwhile, cut the shrimp in half lengthwise ; if your shrimps are not already cleaned, you can follow our cooking school: how to clean shrimp . Gradually place them in a bowl and season them with oil and the salt flakes .
Then add the pepper, lemon juice , and honey . Mix everything and set aside.
At this point, the phyllo baskets will be cooked, and you can take them out of the oven . Let them cool and in the meantime, also prepare the guacamole sauce. Cut the avocado in half, remove the pit, and transfer the flesh into a mixer, scooping it out with a spoon. Then add the oil , a few drops of Tabasco , a pinch of salt.
and lime juice . Blend everything until you get a cream and transfer the sauce into a piping bag .
Meanwhile, prepare the citrus mayonnaise. Pour the 2 egg yolks into a mixer container, add the juice of a mandarin , and while pouring the oil gradually, emulsify everything with an immersion blender . As soon as you have obtained a consistency similar to mayonnaise, stop, add salt , and pepper.
Then add the lemon zest and orange zest . Mix everything and place in a kitchen squeeze bottle .
At this point, drain the shrimp from the marinade and place them in a very hot pan . Cook them for a few minutes until they are golden brown , then set them aside. Gently unmold the baskets and place them on a tray.
Now assemble them, filling them with a bit of avocado cream, two pieces of shrimp , and cover with a bit of citrus mayonnaise . Finish by sprinkling some salmon roe and serve the baskets with shrimp and avocado .
It is advisable to fill the baskets when it's time to serve them. The various preparations can be made a couple of hours in advance.
If you don't like salmon roe, you can use small strips of smoked salmon or toasted bread crumbs!

