name:
Mascarpone and Orange Spoon Dessert
ingredients:
Oranges: 1- organic
Biscotti: to taste- Cantucci
Dark chocolate chips: to taste
Almond slices: to taste
Mascarpone cheese: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Sugar: 0.4cup(85 g)
Water: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Vanilla bean: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 10 min. of resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
The mascarpone and orange spoon dessert is the answer to your craving for a refined dessert to prepare at home. Our recipe will show you, in just a few simple steps, how to transform a homemade dessert into a classy single-portion delight, starting from one of the most beloved preparations: mascarpone cream . The true gourmet touch is given by the orange puree, a citrus-scented concentrate that will give an intense flavor. The crunchy note will be provided by almond flakes and crumbled cantucci , which, along with dark chocolate chips, garnish these quick spoon desserts for the joy of those with a sweet tooth!
If you enjoyed this flavor combination, also try the orange tiramisu and the colomba tiramisu .
To prepare the mascarpone and orange spoon dessert, first pierce the orange with a knife : place it in a saucepan filled with water and cook it until soft, turning it occasionally. This will take about 30-40 minutes. In the meantime, prepare the syrup: pour the water into a separate saucepan .
Add the sugar , stir , and bring the syrup to a temperature of 237°F-239°F, monitoring it with a kitchen thermometer .
When the syrup reaches 219°F, place the egg yolks in a bowl and start beating them with an electric whisk. Once it reaches temperature, pour the syrup in a thin stream while keeping the whisk running . Continue whisking until you get a light and fluffy mixture . Add a spoonful of the mixture to the mascarpone, which you have placed in a bowl, and stir to temper it .
Then add the rest and work with the electric whisk until you obtain a smooth cream . Flavor with the seeds of the vanilla bean and blend again to infuse well .
Place the cream in the refrigerator for about 10 minutes . Retrieve the cooked orange and blend it with an immersion blender .
You should obtain a smooth cream ; if it turns out too thick, add some of the cooking water. Now take a dessert glass with a capacity of 8 oz and pipe a layer of mascarpone cream using a piping bag with a star tip . Using a piping bag without a tip and with a small hole, add dots of orange cream as desired .
Finish with chocolate chips and roughly crumbled cantucci . Continue with another identical layer, starting with the mascarpone cream .
Continue with the orange cream and finish with chocolate, cantucci, and sliced almonds . The mascarpone and orange spoon dessert is ready to be enjoyed !
The mascarpone and orange spoon dessert can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you want a very sweet orange cream, increase the amount of water to cook the orange; on the other hand, if you prefer bitter notes, decrease it.

