name:
Prawn Cocktail
ingredients:
Shrimp paste: 16
Iceberg lettuce: ½cup(30 g)
Lemons: 4slices
Sunflower seed oil: ½cup(120 g)
Egg yolks: 1- very fresh
Lemon juice: 1tbsp(15 g)
Ketchup: 2 ¾tbsp(40 g)
Brandy: 1tsp
Worcestershire sauce: to taste
Tabasco®: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
It's a classic appetizer for celebrations, originating in the 1960s in America and becoming popular in our country especially in the 1980s, so much so that it represents an iconic recipe from that period... have you guessed? We're talking about the prawn cocktail, still loved today by the most nostalgic but not only! There are many reasons: not only is it easy and quick to prepare, making it ideal for a last-minute dinner, but it's also a guarantee of success and elegance thanks to its scenic presentation. The prawns in pink sauce are typically served in refined long-stemmed cocktail glasses, and they don't look out of place even on the table for the most important occasions, like the Christmas menu. To make the cocktail sauce , simply start with homemade mayonnaise , which is flavored with ketchup, Tabasco, Worcestershire sauce, and a dash of brandy. For the rest, you just need to get fresh, high-quality prawns (but shrimp or large prawns will also do) to ensure a striking result... after all, if the prawn cocktail never goes out of style, there must be a reason!
Don't miss these classic appetizers for Christmas or for the New Year's Eve menu:

To prepare the prawn cocktail, start with the mayonnaise: place the egg yolk in a bowl, then add the lemon juice , salt, and pepper . Turn on the electric whisk and slowly pour in the vegetable oil .
When you have achieved a creamy consistency , add the ketchup and Worcestershire sauce .
Add the brandy and a few drops of Tabasco , then stir to combine everything .
Keep the cocktail sauce chilled and move on to cleaning the prawns: leave the head, shell , and legs intact, keeping the tail attached. Cut along the back and remove the black vein of the intestine . Bring a small pot of water to a boil and immerse a few prawns at a time with the help of a slotted spoon .
Blanch the prawns for 30 seconds, just enough time to curl them slightly, then drain them into a bowl with ice water . After blanching all the prawns, cut the iceberg lettuce into julienne strips and get ready to plate: pour a spoonful of cocktail sauce into 4 Martini glasses .
Add a few strips of lettuce and a lemon wedge, then place 4 prawns on the rim of each glass . Serve your prawn cocktail immediately or refrigerate it for 30 minutes before serving !
It is recommended to consume the prawn cocktail immediately.
The cocktail sauce can be prepared in advance and stored in the refrigerator for one day; in this case, garnish with the freshly blanched prawns.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you don't have Worcestershire sauce, you can substitute it with sweet soy sauce.
Alternatively, rum or cognac can be used instead of brandy.
Instead of Tabasco, you can use spicy paprika or chili powder.
If you like, you can enrich the prawn cocktail with slices of mango or avocado!
If you don't have electric whisks, you can prepare the mayonnaise with an immersion blender .

