name:
Christmas Cupcake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(400 g)
Eggs: 11.3oz(320 g)- (6 medium)
Sugar: 1.3cups(260 g)
Butter: 1cup(220 g)- at room temperature
Whole milk: ½cup(120 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Baking powder: 3 ¼tsp(16 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Mascarpone cheese: 3cups(700 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Colored sprinkles: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Note + cooling times

instructions:
The most anticipated holiday of the year is coming, and we will welcome it with these delicious Christmas cupcakes, soft cakes topped with an enticing frosting that has a fresh taste and velvety texture, adorned with cute colorful themed sprinkles. Alongside the typical and majestic traditional desserts, you can't miss new and delicious recipes that enrich the Christmas table, making it even more spectacular. Let yourself be tempted by these fluffy Christmas cupcakes and have fun decorating them with the little ones at home, making the holidays even more joyful!
Also try other delicious Christmas-themed cupcakes:

To prepare the Christmas cupcakes, place the softened butter in a bowl, add the sugar , a pinch of salt , and the vanilla extract .
Turn on the mixers at medium-high speed and let the mixture slightly whip. After a few minutes, add the eggs a little at a time , continuing to work with the mixers. Sift the dry ingredients into a bowl .
As soon as the eggs are incorporated, add the dry ingredients gradually . Work with the mixers to incorporate the dry ingredients, then pour in the milk slowly . Mix until the mixture is combined .
Line a 12-cup muffin tin with paper liners, then fill them with about 50g (approximately 1.75 oz) of batter each, using a spoon . Before baking, tap the pan several times on the work surface to level the surface carefully, so you'll get puffy cupcakes with a flat surface. Bake in a preheated oven at 350°F for about 25-30 minutes, then proceed with the second batch: with these quantities, you will get approximately 24 cupcakes. Once cooked, let them cool at room temperature before decorating them .
Now, work the mascarpone with electric mixers together with the sugar and the vanilla extract .
Pour in the cream until you obtain whipped cream . Transfer the cream into a piping bag with a star tip and place it in the fridge.
Take the now-cooled cupcakes and decorate them with the frosting . Garnish with colorful sprinkles and serve your Christmas cupcakes !
Christmas cupcakes can be stored filled in the fridge for one day.
You can store baked cupcakes at room temperature, without cream, for 3-4 days.
It is possible to freeze the cupcakes after baking.
It's preferable to decorate the cupcakes 1-2 hours before serving them to allow the frosting to set in the refrigerator.

