name:
Microwave Brownies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: ½cup(70 g)
Dark chocolate: 7oz(195 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Eggs: 2
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 3tbsp(15 g)
Whole peeled hazelnuts: ¾cup(120 g)
Butter: 4.2oz(120 g)
Salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 32 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Microwave brownies are a really delicious dessert. An alternative way to prepare the classic brownies , even on vacation, the microwave becomes a formidable ally without compromising the quality and taste of this delicious dessert! Forget about the oven with this recipe and you can enjoy wonderful brownies, cooked in an alternative way! Dark chocolate is the star of this recipe and, with toasted hazelnuts, it forms an irresistible combination of taste and crunchiness. With simple and easily available ingredients, even those less experienced in the kitchen can achieve a guaranteed result and will be able to delight the palate of friends and family. All that's left is to try this very easy recipe!
There are countless variations for brownies, here is a small selection not to be missed:
If you are looking for more microwave recipes, here are some to try:
To prepare microwave brownies, first melt the chocolate in the microwave. Place the chopped chocolate in a bowl and heat it in the microwave a few seconds at a time, stirring until melted. Then transfer it to a large bowl . Also melt the butter in the microwave and add it to the chocolate . Stir vigorously with a spatula and let it cool slightly.
In another bowl, crack the eggs, add the sugar , a pinch of salt , and beat with an electric mixer until the mixture is light and frothy .
Add the melted chocolate and beat again with the electric mixer for a couple of minutes . Add the sifted flour .
Sift the cocoa powder and work with the electric mixer until you obtain a smooth and glossy batter. Add the toasted hazelnuts and mix with a spatula .
Brush a 9.5x9.5 inch baking dish with butter and pour the batter into it. Level it with a spatula or the back of a spoon. Cook in the microwave at 350W for 32 minutes. The microwave brownies are ready to be served!
The microwave brownies can be stored at room temperature, preferably under a cake dome, for 2-3 days.
You can flavor your brownies by adding the seeds of half a vanilla bean to the batter. To make them even more delicious, you can dust them with powdered sugar or serve them with whipped cream or vanilla ice cream.

