name:
Stuffed Capon
ingredients:
Capon: 4.4lbs(2 kg)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Celery: ½cup(50 g)
Carrots: 0.4cup(50 g)
Shallot: 1.4oz(40 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 1sprig
White wine: 0.4cup(100 g)
Vegetable broth: ¾cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Prosciutto crudo: 4.2oz(120 g)
Ground veal: 7.1oz(200 g)
Ground pork: 7oz(200 g)
Cashews: 3oz(80 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2cups(60 g)- grated
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: High

instructions:
Among the classic Christmas recipes, in some regions, there is surely stuffed capon! In your Christmas menu, if you do not choose only vegetarian Christmas dishes, this will certainly be one of the most appreciated dishes. Rich, flavorful, delightful: stuffed capon is one of those timeless recipes to share for a special occasion. Essential is a slow and prolonged cooking that will make the capon meat tender and tasty. We have chosen an irresistible filling: a mix of meats, ham, and cashews! But you can enrich it with whatever your imagination and taste suggest to make your guests even more delighted, like walnuts, for example! Another advantage of this recipe? It can be prepared in advance so on Christmas lunch you just need to bake it and... you can enjoy warm hugs from your family on this special day!
Discover other ideal recipes for the Christmas holidays:

To prepare the stuffed capon, start by preparing the vegetable broth . Then proceed with the basic preparations: coarsely chop the carrots and celery , then also the shallot. Finely chop a sprig of rosemary after rinsing it . Then cut the prosciutto into small cubes and finely chop them with a mixer .
Then begin with the preparation of the filling: in a very large bowl, pour the ground pork, the chopped prosciutto , then the ground beef and the grated cheese . Add salt and pepper.
Season with the chopped rosemary and start mixing the ingredients by kneading energetically with your hands . Now also add the cashews .
Knead them with the other ingredients as well and temporarily set aside the filling mixture. Proceed by flaming the capon to remove any small feathers and quills : we preferred to use a torch for greater practicality. If you don't have one, you can simply bring the capon close to the gas flame for a few seconds to achieve the same result. Rinse it under a stream of cold water .
Pat it dry with paper towels . Salt and pepper the inside of the capon. Fill it with the stuffing you obtained earlier .
Bind the capon to seal the stuffing inside well . At this point, pour the oil into a saucepan, preferably cast iron, with a thick bottom and high sides: heat the oil and place the capon in it, browning it on both sides over high heat. Use kitchen spatulas to help turn it inside the saucepan . Keep the heat high and deglaze with wine , letting it evaporate.
Add the shallot , the carrots , and the celery .
Season with a rinsed sprig of rosemary and the garlic, halved and with the green internal part removed . Pour the vegetable broth .
Cover with a lid and let it cook over very low heat for at least 2 hours . If you have a kitchen thermometer for more precise cooking, you will know that the capon is ready when it reaches 176°F. Alternatively, you can use a kitchen skewer: if you see a clear liquid come out when pricking the meat, the capon is cooked, if the liquid is pink then the capon needs more cooking time. The stuffed capon is then ready and can be sliced to be enjoyed !
The stuffed capon can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 2 days. If you intend to serve this main dish on Christmas day but time is tight and you also want to enjoy the holiday without fussing in the kitchen, you can prepare it the day before and store it in the refrigerator. Then, the next day, cook it before serving!
If you used only fresh and not thawed ingredients, you can also freeze it for up to 1 month.
How to make the capon stuffing even more flavorful? Simple! Enrich it with pistachios and aromatic herbs to your liking!
If desired, you could also bake the stuffed capon in a preheated static oven at 320°F for about 2 hours, then cook it for an additional 15 minutes at 392°F: remember, however, that while it cooks in the oven, you will need to baste it with the cooking liquid at least 2 or 3 times to prevent it from drying out.
Even more delicious? Blend the vegetable juice you prepared to drizzle over each portion of stuffed capon you serve: impossible to resist

