name:
Tortellini in broth
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 10.6oz(300 g)- for pastry
Eggs: 6.9oz(195 g)- (about 3 medium)
Pork loin: 3.5oz(100 g)- (single piece)
Mortadella: 3.5oz(100 g)- (single piece)
Prosciutto crudo: 3.5oz(100 g)- (single piece)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Eggs: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Beef steak: 4.4lbs(1.5 kg)- (adult)
Hen: ½- (old)
White onions: 1
Carrots: 1
Celery: 2ribs
Water: 17cups(4 l)- cold
Cloves: to taste
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 1 h 50 min
Cook time: 4 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 12 h of rest for the filling

instructions:
Tortellini in broth are a true delicacy, a restorative dish and a concentrate of goodness made with passion and tradition. It always starts with the filling of the tortellini, classic with pork, eggs, and lots of Parmesan... then the dough, so thin that looking through it you can see the “San Luca sanctuary”, as they say in Bologna! The extraordinary hand-sealing of the fresh pasta, a simple, repeated gesture, a little magic that happens before plunging the tortellini into chicken and beef broth. Some also make the broth with just beef or capon... it will always have an incredible and unmistakable flavor, the perfect broth dish during Christmas first courses. Aurora Mazzucchelli, 1 Michelin star, shows us how to make this dish special, whose expertise is passed down from generation to generation.
Discover many other similar recipes:
To prepare tortellini in broth, start with the filling which will need a long rest. Cut the mortadella, ham, and pork loin into pieces, removing the harder outer parts. Pass everything through a meat grinder, using a medium plate and collecting the ground meat in a bowl. Do not set the meat grinder aside, it will be needed again. Add the grated cheese , salt, pepper, and egg to the ground meat. Also add a pinch of grated nutmeg. Mix all the ingredients by kneading with your hands.
Pass through the meat grinder again, this time using the finest plate . Compact again with your hands, then cover with plastic wrap and place in the fridge for 12 hours. When there are about 4 hours left, prepare the meat broth. Peel the onion and cut it in half . Insert 3 cloves into each half
and place them in a hot pan . Wash the celery and carrot well, then cut them into pieces . Place the chicken and beef in a large pot .
Add the celery and carrots . When the onions are well browned, remove them with a fork and transfer them to the pot .
Add the water and a pinch of salt. Cook over medium heat . From the boil, it will take about 4 hours. In the meantime, prepare the egg pasta. Pour the flour on a work surface and make the classic well shape. Pour the slightly beaten eggs inside
and start mixing the ingredients with a fork. Then knead by hand , continue until you get a homogeneous dough. Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature. From time to time, check the broth and skim it using a skimmer .
Take the egg pasta and transfer it to a work surface. Flatten it with your hands, then roll it out with a rolling pin until you get a very thin sheet . Using a pasta cutter wheel or a pasta cutter bike, make squares . Place a tip of filling in the center of each square .
Lift one, close it to form a triangle and press lightly on the edges. Now lower the two side edges, wrapping them around your finger . Seal by pinching the two edges of the dough, and the first tortellino is ready . Do the same with all the others and gradually place them on a tray with a cloth .
When the broth is ready, remove the meat and vegetables with a skimmer . Transfer to a bowl . Taste the broth and adjust the salt if necessary .
Then strain it, dividing the broth into two pots . Bring one of the two pots with the broth back to a boil and keep the other warm. As soon as the broth starts to boil, immerse the tortellini . Wait a few minutes until they float, then using a skimmer, remove a portion of tortellini
and transfer them to a plate . Add the hot broth, taking it from the other pot, so it will be clearer . Do the same until all the plates are finished and serve them .
Freshly made tortellini can be frozen, well separated from each other for 30 minutes and then collected together in a freezer bag. If you do not want to freeze them, let them dry well and store them for a day in the refrigerator, well closed in a container, either raw or cooked. The broth can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days.
The broth is divided into two pots, so that one part remains clearer and can be added to the serving dishes.
If it's very hot, the rest of the fresh pasta can be done in the refrigerator.

