name:
Candied Orange Peels
ingredients:
Oranges: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- whole, untreated, with thick peel
Sugar: 2cups(400 g)
Water: 1.7cups(400 g)
Ice: to taste
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes of cooling the peels

instructions:
Candied orange peels are traditional Christmas sweets, perfect to enjoy after a meal or to enhance your desserts! The recipe is very simple and involves boiling thin strips of orange peel in a syrup of water and sugar. Once ready, you can choose to use them immediately, enjoy them with granulated sugar or covered in chocolate, or turn them into a preserve to store in the pantry. This way, you will always have a supply of homemade candied orange peels to delight your guests or enrich delicious desserts such as refined Orange and Chocolate Baskets !
Come and discover other desserts made with oranges:
To prepare candied orange peels, cut thick-skinned, untreated oranges into wedges , then use a knife to remove the pulp . Cut the peel into strips about 0.2 inches wide, following the direction of the wedges ; you should get about 10.5 oz of peels.
Place the peels in a saucepan with cold water and bring to a boil, then drain and cool in a bowl with cold water and ice . Drain the peels with a slotted spoon and repeat this process 4 times.
At this point, transfer the peels to a baking dish . Pour the water and sugar into a saucepan and bring to a boil. When you have obtained a syrup, add the peels .
Simmer for at least 30 minutes over low heat . Once ready , you can choose to use your candied orange peels immediately to garnish your desserts or preserve them: in this case, pour the peels along with the boiling syrup into a previously sterilized glass jar . Immediately close with the lid and turn the jars upside down to create a vacuum seal. Your candied orange peels are ready to be stored.
If you want to consume them immediately, after boiling them in the syrup, let them dry for at least 30 minutes on a rack . Melt 3.5 oz of dark chocolate in the microwave or bain-marie .
Dip the peels halfway , place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper until the chocolate has solidified . Alternatively, you can coat them with sugar: after drying them on the rack, roll them in sugar .
Mix to ensure the sugar adheres well . Your candied orange peels are ready to be enjoyed or stored .
Candied orange peels in jars can be stored for about 6 months at room temperature, away from light and heat sources.
We recommend consuming chocolate and sugar-coated orange peels immediately as humidity and temperature changes can alter taste and texture.
With the leftover orange pulp, you can make Orange jelly candies , a coulis, or a simple orange juice.
If you have thin-skinned oranges, we recommend boiling them only twice in water.
Homemade preparation of preserves and jams can pose health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the conditions and measures necessary to ensure the safety and suitability of food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures can assure to prevent dangerous contaminations. It is therefore important to strictly follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but it must always be kept in mind that the same level of food safety as preserves and jams produced professionally can never be achieved. For correct preparation of homemade preserves, we refer to the Ministry of Health guidelines .

