name:
Panpepato
ingredients:
Dried figs: 9oz(250 g)
Peeled almonds: 1.8cups(250 g)
Walnut kernels: 2 ½cups(250 g)
Whole peeled hazelnuts: 1.8cups(250 g)
Raisins: 1cup(150 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Candied orange: 5.3oz(150 g)
Wildflower honey: ¾cup(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: ½cup(50 g)
Coffee: 7tbsp(35 g)- (from the moka pot)
Rum: 2tsp(10 g)
Cinnamon powder: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 9 pieces
Cost: High
Note + cooling time (at least 4-5 hours or overnight)

instructions:
Peppered cake is a traditional Christmas dessert typical of Central Italy: as with all regional preparations, there are many variations of this recipe, for example, the Panforte , the Roman Pangiallo , or the Genoese pandolce . Here we offer you the Umbrian recipe, originating particularly from the city of Terni, made with a dough based on dried and candied fruits, chocolate, cocoa, honey, raisins, and spices. A rich and fragrant sweet, characterized by the aroma of coffee and rum, which you can personalize by varying the proportions of the ingredients or substituting them with others to your liking… after all, every family has its own peppered cake recipe, and you just have to create yours to enrich your Christmas recipes, in the name of tradition!
If you love spiced sweets, discover other sweet recipes with black pepper.
To make homemade peppered cake, first rinse and then soak the raisins for about 20 minutes . Meanwhile, prepare the other ingredients: finely chop the dark chocolate , then cut the candied orange and dried figs into pieces .
Coarsely chop the dried fruits with a knife: walnuts , hazelnuts , and almonds .
Drain the raisins and place them in a large bowl along with the dried figs , candied orange , and rum .
Add the coffee , chopped chocolate , cinnamon, and nutmeg .
Add pepper , then also add the almonds , walnuts, and hazelnuts .
Finally, pour in the flour and cocoa . Start mixing with a wooden spoon while also adding the honey .
After mixing everything, continue kneading with your hands until you obtain a homogeneous mixture as possible . At this point, grease your hands with olive oil and form balls weighing about 4.5 oz each; with these quantities, you should get 9 pieces . Place the balls on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper as you make them .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for about 35 minutes . Once the baking time has elapsed, remove from the oven and let cool at room temperature for at least 4-5 hours, preferably overnight . Your peppered cake is ready to be enjoyed !
Peppered cake can be stored for up to 2 weeks in a tightly closed tin box.
Freezing is not recommended.
To coarsely chop the dried fruits, you can use a blender.
Almonds, walnuts, or hazelnuts can be replaced with pine nuts, pistachios, or pecans for example!
If you prefer, you can melt the dark chocolate to better incorporate it into the mixture.
You can make the peppered cake any size you prefer.

