name:
Ravioli stuffed with potatoes and shrimp
ingredients:
Remilled durum wheat semolina: ½cup(80 g)
Type 0 flour: 0.67cup(80 g)
Eggs: 4.25oz(120 g)- (about 2 medium)
Potatoes: 7.1oz(200 g)
Shrimps: 3.5oz(100 g)- (tails)
Eggs: 1
Mint: 4leaves
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Shrimps: 5.3oz(150 g)- peeled
Dry white wine: 0.4cup(100 g)
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 30 min. resting time for the dough

instructions:
The fish ravioli are certainly an excellent choice for an important and refined dinner. For this reason, we propose another dish to include in your special occasion menus: ravioli stuffed with potatoes and shrimp! Unlike the shrimp and lemon ravioli , the crustaceans in this case are precooked and the creaminess of the filling is given by the potato puree instead of ricotta... an equally delicious variant enlivened by the fresh note of mint. Dressed with a simple seafood sauce, the ravioli stuffed with potatoes and shrimp will certainly be appreciated even by the most demanding guests! Also discover how to prepare the Paccheri with provola and shrimp and the refined Shrimp ravioli with stracciatella and turnip tops !
To make the ravioli stuffed with potatoes and shrimp, first prepare the fresh egg pasta: pour the 2 types of flour into a large bowl , add the eggs , and start mixing first with a fork and then with your hands.
Once you have well combined all the ingredients, transfer the mixture to the work surface and knead until you form a homogeneous dough . Cover the dough with the bowl and let it rest at room temperature for about 30 minutes . Meanwhile, peel the potatoes and cut them into cubes .
Boil the potatoes in salted water for about 25 minutes . In the meantime, you can clean the shrimp: remove the legs from the shrimp tails, then cut along the back , remove the shell and extract the black thread .
In a pan, sauté 2 cloves of garlic with a drizzle of oil, add 3.5 oz of cleaned shrimp and cook them for a few minutes, just until they turn red . Roughly chop the shrimp and set aside . The rest of the shrimp will be used for the sauce.
When the potatoes are cooked, drain them and let them cool slightly, then mash them in a bowl . Also add the chopped shrimp, the egg, and the fresh mint leaves . Mix to form a homogeneous mixture and season with salt .
Take the dough and roll it out on a lightly floured surface to a thickness of 1/25 inch (1 mm), trying to obtain a circular sheet . Place small heaps of filling on half of the sheet, spacing them about 5/8 inch (1.5 cm) apart . Fold the other half of the sheet to cover the heaps, making sure it adheres well .
At this point, cut out the ravioli with a round cutter with a diameter of 1.5 inches (4 cm) and press the edges with your fingertips to let the air out , then seal by pressing with the tines of a fork . Place the ravioli on a floured tray and move on to the sauce, while bringing a pot of plenty of salted water to a boil to cook the ravioli.
Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the whole shrimp tails, and add salt . When the shrimp have turned red, deglaze with white wine . Meanwhile, cook the ravioli until al dente .
As soon as the ravioli rise to the surface, drain them directly into the pan with the sauce and mix to combine everything . Serve your ravioli stuffed with potatoes and shrimp garnishing the dish with some fresh mint leaves .
It is recommended to cook and consume the ravioli stuffed with potatoes and shrimp immediately; alternatively, they can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day. You can freeze the raw ravioli for about a month, if you have used only fresh ingredients; then you can cook them from frozen by dropping them directly into boiling water.
For a creamier sauce, you can add a couple of tablespoons of cooking cream!

