name:
Salmon trout in pistachio crust
ingredients:
Salmon trout: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (4 fillets)
Ground pistachio: ½cup(60 g)
Panko: 0.8cup(40 g)
Mustard: 1spoonful
Garlic: 1clove
Lemon peel: ½
Dill: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Salt: to taste
Natural plain yogurt: 2spoonfuls
Mayonnaise: 2spoonfuls
Salted capers: 2tsp
Taggiasca olives: 2tsp
Shallot: 1
White wine vinegar: to taste
Water: to taste
Lemon juice: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
The New Year's Eve dinner is the perfect occasion to delight your guests with an extraordinary and refined Christmas main course like salmon trout in pistachio crust. This succulent salmon trout is wrapped in a golden pistachio and Homemade Panko coating and delicately baked. Accompanying the fillets is a dill-flavored yogurt sauce, made even more enticing with the addition of olives and capers. This exceptional dish combines bold flavors and crunchy textures to refresh your holiday menus with a gourmet twist!
Here are more ideas for your main courses based on trout:

To prepare the salmon trout in pistachio crust, clean and chop the shallot , then soak it in a bowl with equal parts vinegar and water to soften its flavor. Take the cleaned trout fillets with skin on, remove the bones . If you bought whole fish, you can follow our guide: How to Clean Salmon Trout .
Pat them dry with paper towels , then cut them in half and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Season with salt and brush with a little mustard . Prepare the coating: in a bowl, pour the panko and chopped pistachios .
Add grated lemon zest , dill , grated garlic , and oil.
Mix to combine and cover the fillets with the coating , achieving a thickness of about 0.4 inches . Drizzle with oil and bake in a preheated fan oven at 375°F for 12-13 minutes (the time may vary depending on the thickness of the fillet).
Meanwhile, prepare the sauce: chop capers and olives and place them in a bowl. Drain the shallot .
Add it to the bowl with yogurt , mayonnaise, and lemon juice .
Flavor with dill , mix, and salt to taste . Remove the salmon trout from the oven .
Plate the salmon trout in pistachio crust and garnish with flaked salt , then add the sauce on the side . Finish with a few drops of raw oil !
The salmon trout in pistachio crust can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days without the sauce.
The mustard helps the coating adhere better; alternatively, you can brush the fillets with a slightly beaten egg white.
Panko is a Japanese-style breadcrumb in flakes; you can substitute it with breadcrumbs or coarsely crushed breadsticks.
Instead of salmon trout, you can choose the type of fish you prefer: the important thing is to keep the skin, remove the bones, and adjust the cooking time based on the thickness of the fillet!

