name:
Canapés with Jelly
ingredients:
Sandwich bread: 10slices
Smoked Salmon: 5slices
Eggs: 3- medium
Edam cheese: 15slices
Brie cheese: 15slices
Shrimp paste: 5
Pickles: 5
Prosciutto crudo: 5slices
Prosciutto cotto: 5slices
Tuna in oil: 1oz(25 g)
Black olives: 3
Green olives: 10
Anchovies in oil: 5- fillets
Salami: 5slices
Capers in vinegar: 5
Frankfurter: 1
Peperoni in oil: 10- yellow and red in pieces
Egg yolks: 1- at room temperature
Lemon juice: 2.4tsp(12 ml)
Vegetable oil: ½cup(125 ml)
Vinegar: ½tsp(1.5 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Gelatine: 0.9oz(25 g)- prepared
Water: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Lemon juice: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: High
Note + the cooling time for the jelly

instructions:
The canapés with jelly are a rich and colorful appetizer to serve on special occasions or celebrations, especially during the Christmas holidays. In this recipe, we propose four different types of canapés that mix flavors and tastes to enrich your Christmas menu. The ingredients are truly rich and tasty: cold cuts, shrimp, eggs, cheeses, and pickled vegetables, which are placed on soft slices of sandwich bread garnished with mayonnaise and covered with jelly.
Also, try these canapé recipes:
To prepare the canapés with jelly, place 250 ml of water in a large pot and bring to a boil. Take the gelatin mix and dissolve it over low heat, stirring with a whisk , then add the remaining 250 ml of cold water and
the lemon juice . Turn off the heat and pour the mixture onto a tray , ensuring that the jelly is 1/8 inch thick . Place the jelly in the refrigerator to solidify (it's better to prepare it the night before for the next morning).
Proceed with the preparation of the mayonnaise ; take the eggs at room temperature and separate the yolks from the whites. Place the yolks in a high-sided bowl and season with salt and pepper to taste. Pour in the vinegar and start working the ingredients with an electric mixer; while you are whisking the eggs, slowly drizzle in the vegetable oil ; you must always mix in the same direction until you obtain a thick sauce (to prevent the mayonnaise from curdling, you must avoid adding too much oil at once, which would prevent proper emulsification with the yolk). When the mayonnaise is whipped , finish by adding the lemon juice .
Work with the whisk again until you obtain a dense and homogeneous consistency . Set aside the mayonnaise and take the slices of sandwich bread, removing the crusts with a knife . Cut the slices in half, to obtain 20 rectangles (alternatively, you can cut the sandwich bread with cookie cutters to obtain different shapes).
For the shrimp and salmon canapé, start by cleaning the shrimp : remove the head and tail , then use your fingers to remove the shell ; slit the back and remove the internal intestine (the black filament) by gently pulling it out with the tip of a knife (alternatively, you can use a toothpick).
Blanch the shrimp in a pot with plenty of water for about 1-2 minutes . When they are ready , turn off the heat and drain them. Take a rectangle of sandwich bread and spread the mayonnaise you prepared earlier .
Assemble your canapés by placing a slice of salmon, half a slice of edamer, the brie , and a shrimp . Finish your salmon and shrimp canapés by adding sliced pickled cucumbers .
To prepare the prosciutto crudo canapé, first, hard boil the eggs for about 8 minutes ; run them under cold water, then peel and slice them with an egg slicer . Spread the mayonnaise on the slices of sandwich bread, then place a slice of prosciutto crudo ,
the brie, a slice of egg , and the previously drained tuna . Finish your prosciutto crudo canapés by adding a sliced green olive on the egg yolk .
To prepare the salami canapés, spread the mayonnaise on the sandwich bread, place a slice of salami , the hard-boiled egg , and an anchovy fillet .
Place a caper in the center of the anchovy , then cut a sausage diagonally and place it on your canapés along with the brie and black olives .
For the cooked ham canapés, spread the mayonnaise on the slices of sandwich bread and lay a slice of cooked ham and brie . Add the pickled red and yellow peppers, the drained tuna , and finish with a green olive .
Once you have made all the canapés , remove the now-solidified jelly from the refrigerator and cut it with a knife to obtain 20 rectangles the same size as the sandwich bread slices . With the help of a spatula
place the jelly rectangles on the canapés . Once done , put them in the refrigerator for 10-15 minutes before serving your jelly canapés .
Once prepared, it is recommended to consume the canapés immediately.
Many flavors and many tastes! Have fun composing your canapés with the ingredients you like best! For the base of the canapés, you can use sliced sandwich bread or loaf bread; however, I do not recommend using club sandwich bread, as it is too soft and fragile.

