name:
Casoncelli alla bergamasca
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: ½cup(50 g)
Eggs: 1.8oz(50 g)- (approximately 1 small)
Water: ¼cup(63 g)
Salami paste: 5.3oz(150 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(125 g)
Abate Fetel pears: 3.7oz(105 g)- or 'spadona' type
Pork: 3.5oz(100 g)- roasted
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(75 g)
Eggs: 1.8oz(50 g)- (about 1 small)
Raisins: ¼cup(30 g)
Amaretti cookies: 0.2oz(5 g)- about 2
Garlic: 
Lemon peel: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cinnamon powder: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Butter: to taste
Sage: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time for the fresh pasta

instructions:
Let's take a trip to Northern Italy to show you the recipe for Casoncelli alla Bergamasca. This fresh pasta is a traditional Lombard dish that comes in many versions. Both the shape and the filling vary depending on where they are made. To create our recipe, we followed the production guidelines for Casoncelli alla Bergamasca , to respect tradition. The real peculiarity of casoncelli lies in the filling: rich and flavorful, made with meat, cheese, breadcrumbs, pears, and amaretti. A mix that allows you to achieve a perfect balance, not too sweet! To taste this first course, you can organize a tour of Bergamo, Brescia, or Val Camonica inns, to savor different and exquisite local variations of this first dish. In the meantime, you can arm yourself with some good will and high-quality ingredients to recreate our version of these fantastic casoncelli, treasures of goodness ready to be rolled!
Here are other traditional Lombard recipes not to miss:
To prepare the Bergamasca casoncelli, start with the fresh pasta. In a bowl, pour the all-purpose flour and semolina . Mix with a fork, then while continuing to mix, add the egg and let it absorb. Also add the water .
Knead everything until you get a homogeneous mixture ; transfer it to a surface and knead it energetically until it is smooth . Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest for 30 minutes in a cool place.
In the meantime, prepare the filling. Peel the pear , remove the core and first cut it into thin strips , then into cubes .
In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil, then add the pears and cook them over high heat for 5-6 minutes until they are well browned . Let them cool and in the meantime pass the sausage meat through the meat grinder .
Also pass the roasted meat cut into pieces through the meat grinder and combine the two types of meat in a large bowl . Finely chop the parsley .
Finely chop the garlic, after peeling and removing the core . Crumble the amaretti or crush them with the blade of a knife . Finally, finely chop the raisins .
Add the sautéed pears , the amaretti , and the breadcrumbs into the bowl with the meat.
Also add the egg , the grated Grana Padano PDO , and the raisins .
Flavor with lemon zest , garlic , parsley , black pepper, nutmeg, and cinnamon. Also add a pinch of salt.
Knead the mixture with your hands until it is compact and homogeneous . Then form balls of about 0.25 oz , which will be the filling for your casoncelli.
At this point, take the egg pasta. Divide it in half and cover one of the portions with plastic wrap to prevent it from drying out. Meanwhile, roll out the other portion with a pasta machine starting from the widest thickness. Once the sheet is obtained, fold the edges towards the center and roll it out again, reducing the thickness of the rollers . Stretch the sheet in this way until you get a thickness of 0.02 - 0.04 inches.
Now cut discs from the sheet using a 2.5-inch round cutter . Knead the scraps again and let them rest for 15 minutes before rolling them out again. Place a ball of filling inside and moisten the surface of the dough with a spray bottle filled with water . In this way, it will be easier to close them later.
Close the casoncelli into a half-moon shape , sealing the edges well. Then, using your fingers, turn it over and press it in the center with your thumb .
Continue this way until they are all formed . Cook them in boiling water for about 6 minutes and in the meantime, melt the butter with the sage .
Add a little pasta cooking water to the butter , then drain the casoncelli and sauté them quickly in the pan . Serve with a sprinkle of grated Grana Padano PDO .
Cooked casoncelli can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
Uncooked casoncelli can be stored on a tray, sprinkling them with plenty of semolina. Cover them well with plastic wrap and make small cuts in the wrap, so moisture won't be trapped inside. Once done, you can store them in the fridge for 24 hours.
Uncooked casoncelli can be frozen first on a tray and then transferred to a food bag.
Fresh pasta tends to dry out; if this happens, it becomes more difficult to close the ravioli, and the finished product may crack and open during cooking. It is advisable not to roll the whole dough at once, rather divide it into four and roll a little pasta at a time, always keeping the other pieces well closed in plastic wrap.
The varieties of pears provided by the production guidelines are the Abate pear in autumn-winter and the Spadona pear in spring-summer.
In the guidelines, it is indicated to use roasted beef, as traditionally these ravioli were made with leftovers from previous roast meals. Alternatively, you can use beef (such as round), roast it with oil, or use minced meat and sear it well in a pan.

