name:
Sausages with Red Wine
ingredients:
Sausage: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (approximately 8)
Red wine: 2glasses(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Cornstarch: 3 ½tbsp(30 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Sage: to taste
Bread: 7oz(200 g)- (8 toasted slices)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Sausages with red wine are an extremely flavorful main course. If you already love the simple cooking in a pan or the more classic sausages with sauce , whose seasoning is perfect for preparing in the colder days. By pricking the sausages before cooking, the wine will penetrate the meat and absorb all its flavor! Therefore, it will be very important to choose an excellent red wine, which will accompany you throughout the dinner. And if you are looking for a side dish to enjoy with the sausages with red wine, roasted potatoes are definitely the most suitable. Invite your friends, making this recipe will be really simple, and the result will be a dish with a bold flavor and an intense aroma.
To prepare sausages with red wine, first chop sage and rosemary together . Then take the sausages and use a toothpick to make holes about 1/2 inch apart, making sure to make them on all sides and along the entire length . This way, the sausage fat can escape, and the wine will better penetrate the meat. Pour a drizzle of oil into a pan and let it heat up. Then add the sausages .
Brown them well on all sides , it will take about 10 minutes. At this point, turn off the heat, wait a few seconds, then pour the wine and turn the flame back on. Let it cook for another 15 minutes.
Using kitchen tongs, move the sausages to a serving dish and keep them warm. Let the sauce cook for another 5 minutes. Then add the chopped aromatic herbs and cornstarch .
Stir until you have obtained a creamy texture , then strain it and place it on a plate where you have already positioned the croutons , place the sausages on top and serve.
Sausages with wine can be kept in the fridge for up to one day; just heat them before serving. It is not advisable to freeze them.
If you want to try giving a sweeter taste to your wine sauce, add a tablespoon of honey to the preparation.

