name:
Savory Christmas Wreath
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.3cup(80 g)
Eggs: 1
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 5 ¼tsp(15 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Sugar: 1tsp(5 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 7oz(200 g)
Fontina cheese: 6.4oz(180 g)
Whole milk: to taste
Sesame seeds: to taste
Pink peppercorn: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 12
Note + 15 min. dough resting time

instructions:
The savory Christmas wreath is a decorative appetizer, a perfect centerpiece for the holidays, and an ideal recipe for your Christmas menu! It is a baked bread made with dough balls stuffed: an original and tasty idea that will create a magical and welcoming atmosphere. Every soft bite encloses a heart of melted fontina cheese and ham: this is our suggestion, but you can vary with many other tempting ingredients to your liking. Among all the holiday recipes, the savory Christmas wreath is undoubtedly one of the most captivating and will be perfect alongside the timeless traditional Christmas appetizers. Celebrating the holiday with homemade dishes using simple ingredients is not only convenient but will also make you rediscover the love for authentic and genuine food!
Also try:

To prepare the savory Christmas wreath, first take care of the dough: in a bowl, pour the flour, sugar, yeast, and salt . Pour in the milk and the egg , then knead by hand.
Add the oil gradually while continuing to knead . Work patiently until the dough has well absorbed the oil . Form a dough ball .
Let the dough rest covered with the bowl for about 15 minutes . Now cut the cheese into tiny cubes and set aside . After the resting time for the dough, divide it with a bench scraper .
You should get 24 pieces of about 1.23 oz , then form balls by rolling the dough between your hands . Cover the balls with a cloth to prevent them from drying out .
Roll out each ball with the rolling pin to form a disc of about 4 inches . Fill with cheese and ham .
Seal like a dumpling by joining the edges . Roll the stuffed dumplings again on the surface to obtain a round shape .
Grease both the baking tray and the 3.5-inch cookie cutter, then place the latter in the center of the tray . Arrange about 9 balls around the circle . Complete with the remaining dough balls, then brush them with milk and sprinkle sesame seeds on the surface .
Flavor with a grind of pink pepper . Bake in a preheated oven for 30 minutes at 350°F. Once out of the oven, remove the central cookie cutter with tongs. Decorate your wreath with aromatic sprigs .
The savory Christmas wreath can be kept for 2 days under a glass dome. Freezing is not recommended.
You can replace fontina with provola or caciocavallo cheese.

