name:
Tagliolini with Lobster on Burrata Cream
ingredients:
Egg Tagliolini pasta: 8.75oz(250 g)
Lobster: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- pre-cooked from which to obtain 150 g of meat
Fish broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Wildflower honey: 1tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Burrata cheese: 0.8cup(200 g)
Basil: - a few leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: (10 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
At the end of the year, it's tradition to surprise loved ones with flavorful and original dishes, and if they are plated well, even better. Thus, we decided to bring to the table a delicious dish of tagliolini with lobster on burrata cream. A first course with delicate yet persistent flavors thanks to the burrata blended with basil which perfectly matches the goodness of the lobster. A dish that is prepared quickly, allowing you to also consider all the other preparations for the evening. By the way, do you already have a menu in mind? Because we can suggest some crostini with marinated salmon and a Tuna steak with mint pesto for the main course. In the meantime, try the tagliolini with lobster on burrata cream and let us know what you think.
To prepare the tagliolini with lobster on burrata cream, start by ensuring the fish stock is kept warm throughout the preparation. Then, in a blender, combine the burrata, salt, and pepper , then add a few basil leaves, some lemon zest, and the oil . Blend until smooth, and set aside in a bowl .
Now move on to cleaning the lobster. First, cut into the claws , this will allow you to extract the meat . Then use scissors to cut along the belly and extract the remaining meat .
Cut it into pieces and move to the stove. In a saucepan, heat the oil along with the chili pepper sliced into rings. Then add the lobster pieces and sear them over high heat. Add salt and honey ,
a few moments of cooking and they will be done . Remove the lobster pieces and deglaze the cooking base with a ladle of fish stock . Meanwhile, bring the fish stock to a boil and add the egg tagliolini, cooking them according to the package instructions .
It's time to plate. On the bottom of the plates, pour some of the burrata cream , drain the egg tagliolini into the cooking pan and toss for a few moments . Then form a nest with a fork or tongs and a ladle .
Garnish with the reserved lobster pieces , a few basil leaves, and a sprinkle of lemon . Here you have tagliolini with lobster on burrata cream, enjoy your meal .
It is recommended to consume the tagliolini with lobster on burrata cream immediately.
A handful of toasted nuts in a pan could make your dish of tagliolini with lobster on burrata cream even more special. Try with almonds or hazelnuts.

