name:
Sweet Wreath
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(4 g)
Sugar: 1tsp(5 g)
Water: 0.3cup(80 g)
Manitoba flour: 3.3cups(400 g)
Sugar: ½cup(90 g)
Whole milk: 0.7cup(150 g)
Egg yolks: 4.6tbsp(65 g)- (about 3)
Orange peel: 1
Fine salt: 0.8tsp(5 g)
Butter: ½cup(120 g)- soft
Orange jam: ¾cup(200 g)
Raisins: 1cup(200 g)
Rum: 3.4oz(100 g)
Honey: to taste
Almond slices: ¼cup(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
Christmas is undoubtedly the favorite holiday for both adults and children. Most of the time, we focus on what to prepare for lunch or for Christmas Eve dinner, but today we want to propose an idea for a breakfast with the whole family! The lights on the tree are twinkling, the gifts are ready to be unwrapped, and the scent of this sweet wreath has already filled all the rooms and woken even the sleepiest ones! Soft, scenic, and delicious, it's also perfect to prepare as a centerpiece and enjoy after lunch. Inside you'll find lots of raisins and a generous layer of jam, but you can customize this wreath with the ingredients you love the most!
First, make the yeast starter: dissolve the dry yeast in the water , add the sugar , and the flour gradually .
Mix well, first with a spoon then with your hands until you form a smooth dough . Transfer it to a work surface and knead for a few minutes , and when it is smooth and uniform, form a ball and place it in a bowl .
Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for 30 minutes in the turned-off oven with the light on. As soon as the yeast starter has doubled, start preparing the dough. Put the egg yolks in a large bowl, add the sugar , the grated orange zest , and mix.
Then, add a bit of flour and a bit of milk, alternating them and kneading until you get a soft and uniform dough.
Add the softened butter cut into pieces . Then add the salt and knead with your hands until you get a homogeneous dough. Now add the yeast starter prepared earlier ,
and knead with your hands . When you have obtained a smooth dough, transfer everything to a floured work surface . Knead again to form a soft loaf, then transfer it back to the bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise for about 3 hours in the turned-off oven with the light on.
When the dough has doubled in volume , put the raisins in a bowl and add the rum . Let them soften and in the meantime transfer the dough to a slightly floured surface .
Roll out the dough with a rolling pin , achieving a thin thickness of about 1/8 inch, forming a rectangle . Brush the entire surface with the jam
and add the well-drained raisins . Then roll tightly starting from the longer side . At the end, you will have a log .
With a large smooth-bladed floured knife, make a cut starting from about 1-1/2 inches from the beginning and continue along the entire length . At this point, braid the two halves , sealing the two ends well. Very gently transfer to a baking sheet covered with parchment paper and join the two ends to create a ring . Let the wreath rise again for about 20 minutes in the warmth, in the turned-off oven with the light on.
Bake in a static oven at 356°F for about 30 minutes. Remove from the oven and let it cool slightly, then brush it with honey and decorate with sliced almonds .
The sweet wreath can be stored under a glass dome for a couple of days. It can be frozen once baked and completely cooled.
If you don't like almonds for decoration, you can use other nuts, like pine nuts or candied orange peels.


