name:
Yule Log (Buche de Noel)
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Eggs: 5- medium
Sugar: 0.7cup(140 g)
Honey: ½tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Vanilla bean: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1.3cups(300 g)
Dark chocolate: 10.5oz(300 g)- 55%
Dark chocolate: 10.6oz(300 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 10
Cost: High
Note + resting times

instructions:
The Yule log (Bûche de Noël) is a Christmas dessert typical of French tradition that resembles a log, a symbol considered to bring good luck in many Northern European countries. Delicious and refined, our Yule log is the king of Christmas cakes: a roll of soft Biscuit dough filled with Ganache cream and garnished with dark chocolate shavings that, besides adding a tasty touch, simulate the appearance of a real log. This year, make the Yule log yourself, a traditional dessert that cannot be missing from your Christmas lunch!
Try it also in red velvet version!
Also try these sweet and savory variations:
To prepare the Yule log (Buche de Noel), start with the sponge cake: begin by separating the yolks from the whites. Beat the yolks with the beaters for a few minutes along with 90 g (about 3.2 oz) of sugar , a pinch of salt, vanilla, and honey until they become light and very frothy . With impeccably clean beaters, then whip the egg whites to stiff peaks along with the remaining sugar .
Now combine the two mixtures with a spatula without deflating them . Add the flour by sifting it directly into the bowl , gently incorporate with movements from bottom to top .
Spread the mixture on a sheet of parchment paper placed on a baking tray measuring 45 x 37 cm (about 18 x 14.5 inches), level it with a spatula until reaching a thickness of 1 cm (about 0.4 inches) . Bake in a preheated static oven at 220°C (428°F) for 6-7 minutes. When it's ready, place it with the parchment paper on a work surface. Sprinkle the surface of the sponge cake with granulated sugar to prevent sticking, then seal it with plastic wrap, wrapping it underneath the edges as well; let it cool .
Meanwhile, move on to the ganache. Chop the chocolate ; pour the cream into a saucepan and bring it to a simmer . When the cream is hot, turn off the heat and add the chopped chocolate .
Stir with the whisk to completely dissolve it then transfer the mixture into a bowl placed inside another larger bowl with ice . Now start beating with an electric mixer .
Work the ganache for 10-15 minutes until it is well whipped; you'll know it's ready when the color becomes similar to milk chocolate, and it is firmer . When the sponge cake is cool, remove the plastic wrap and gently peel off the parchment paper , fill it with about half of the whipped ganache
and spread it out, leaving 2 cm (about 0.8 inches) from the edges . Roll up the sponge cake delicately, helping yourself with the plastic wrap , seal the ends, and place the roll to set in the fridge for about 1 hour together with the remaining ganache .
In the meantime, take care of the decoration. To How to temper the chocolate using the seeding method, simply chop the chocolate and divide it into two parts: 2/3 and 1/3. Then melt 200g (about 7 oz) of chopped dark chocolate in a double boiler (or microwave) , letting it melt while measuring the chocolate temperature with a confectionery thermometer. As soon as the chocolate is melted and reaches a temperature of 45°C (113°F), immediately transfer it into a bowl and add the remaining 100g (about 3.5 oz) of chopped chocolate . Stir until completely blended: measure the temperature again, which should reach 29°-31°C (84°-88°F) .
Transfer the chocolate onto a sheet of parchment paper , distribute it evenly with the help of a spatula to form a thin sheet , and let it cool so it becomes hard . Later, you can cut it into strips with a smooth knife and then into squares .
Retrieve the filled roll, trim the edges by cutting off the two ends (you can consume them as a rich snack or place them at the sides, as we did with the snowy Yule log) . Spread the remaining ganache until the entire log is covered .
Finally, lay the chocolate flakes close to each other to recreate the look of a wooden log . A dusting of powdered sugar, and your Yule log (Buche de Noel) is ready to be enjoyed !
Store the Yule log (Buche de Noel) in the refrigerator for a couple of days. You can freeze it without decoration.
You can also use pastry cream to fill the Yule log; in this case, to make the cream compact and firm, add sheet gelatin.
According to ancient tradition, the log was extracted from the thickest part of the tree and kept in the woodshed until Christmas Eve, when it was placed in the fireplace by the head of the family to symbolically warm baby Jesus. The log had to burn until New Year's, so it was generally extracted from fruit trees like oak or chestnut, which ensured a slow burn; the entire tradition has its roots in the ancient pagan custom of propitiating, through this ritual, the fertility of all fruit trees: with the now-burnt ashes of the log, propitiatory rites were performed throughout the year to protect the harvest and the family from negativity.

