name:
Christmas parcels with scampi, ginger, and lime
ingredients:
Scampi: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Phyllo dough: 3.5oz(100 g)- (4 sheets of 25 g each)
Lime: 1
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Coconut milk: 0.4cup(100 g)
Fresh ginger: 2tsp(10 g)
Shallot: 1.8oz(50 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Eggs: 1
Poppy seeds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Christmas parcels with scampi, ginger, and lime are small treats to enjoy as a delicious Christmas appetizer during the holiday season. They make a fun addition to traditional fish dishes like the shrimp cocktail or gratinated scallops . Irresistibly crispy on the outside with a soft and creamy filling inside that reveals its delicate scampi flavor with the first bite, these fun parcels are an original recipe. Once the guests are gathered, challenge them to guess the mysterious filling: winners will naturally be granted a well-deserved second helping!
To prepare Christmas parcels with scampi, ginger, and lime, first, clean the scampi: remove the head , use scissors to cut the shell to make it easier to remove .
Carefully extract the black thread from the back and place the cleaned and whole scampi in a small bowl . Peel and chop the shallot .
Chop the fresh chili pepper along with its seeds . Now melt 1 tbsp (0.5 oz) of butter in a pan and add the shallot .
Sauté it for a couple of minutes and then add the chili pepper . Deglaze with the coconut milk and season with lime zest
and its juice . Finish with the grated ginger , then incorporate the scampi (15-16) and cook for a total of 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, unroll the phyllo dough; 4 sheets weighing 0.9 oz each will be enough. Overlap two rectangular sheets measuring 14.6x9.8 inches and cut them in half lengthwise . Repeat the process to obtain 4 double rectangles. Brush the pastry with 1 tbsp (0.5 oz) of melted butter .
Fill each rectangle with two scampi and their sauce , roll the pastry all the way . Once at the end, pinch the ends to create a candy-like shape .
and seal them with kitchen twine . Brush the surface of the candies with beaten egg and garnish with poppy seeds .
Place the candies on a baking sheet and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 15 minutes or until golden brown . Serve the Christmas parcels with scampi, ginger, and lime piping hot .
We recommend consuming the Christmas parcels immediately.
To enrich the filling, you can add Taggiasca olives or cherry tomatoes. If you don't like coconut milk, you can cook the scampi with a little broth.

