name:
Soft polenta cake
ingredients:
Bramata corn flour: 3cups(400 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Eggs: 4- medium
Greek yogurt 0% fat: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Butter: 8tbsp(110 g)
Baking powder: 2 ½tsp(12 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
There are those who prefer polenta in a classic style or concia style, and we should remember that it's not always pure but also a great companion for sausages or beans. Today, however, we present you with the soft polenta cake, a delicious sweet version perfect for breakfast and snacks. Not everyone knows that cornmeal, as strange as it may seem, works wonderfully in non-salty versions, as in this case or when we talked about the Lombard amor polenta or Pan meino (pan de mej) . In the version we propose today, the cake with cornmeal will be soft and lemon-scented, but its texture will have a rough consistency, thanks to the coarse ground cornmeal. This type of coarse milling flour results in a more rustic finish. Exactly the kind of result we wanted from our soft polenta cake because, after all, as they say in Lombardy, " la polenta la fa la tàola contenta " (polenta makes the table happy).
To prepare the soft polenta cake, start by sifting the coarse cornmeal with the baking powder and a pinch of salt in a bowl, mix and set aside. Then melt the butter in a saucepan or microwave and let it cool. Now, place the eggs and grated lemon zest in a bowl, use a whisk to beat while gradually adding the sugar. After about 5 minutes, gradually pour in the previously melted and now cooled butter, and mix everything together. At this point, lower the whisk speed and incorporate the dry mixture one tablespoon at a time, alternating with Greek yogurt. Continue beating until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous batter. Grease a 9.5-inch diameter pan, dust it with cornmeal, and pour in the batter, leveling the surface with the back of a spoon. Transfer to a preheated oven at 340°F for 60 minutes. Check the baking with a toothpick test, and when it's dry, you can remove the cake and let it cool before unmolding; then let it cool on a rack. Your soft polenta cake is ready; it just needs a sprinkle of powdered sugar!
The soft polenta cake can be stored in a cool place for 3-4 days.
If you want to give your soft polenta cake an extra kick, just add chocolate chips, candied or dried fruit, or even finely chopped nuts. If you prefer a more delicate texture, you can use fioretto cornmeal, or even fumetto if available, instead of the coarse ground cornmeal.

