name:
Spaghetti Carbonara
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Jowls: 5.3oz(150 g)
Egg yolks: 6- (of medium eggs)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare spaghetti carbonara, start by putting a pot of salted water on the stove to cook the pasta. In the meantime, remove the rind from the guanciale and cut it first into slices and then into strips about 3/8-inch thick . The leftover rind can be reused to flavor other dishes.
Place the pieces of guanciale in a non-stick pan and brown them for about 10 minutes over medium-high heat, being careful not to burn it, or it will release a strong aroma. Meanwhile, plunge the spaghetti into the boiling water and cook them al dente. In the meantime, pour the yolks into a bowl .
Add the Pecorino and season with black pepper . Blend everything with a hand whisk until you obtain a smooth cream.
Meanwhile, the guanciale will be cooked ; turn off the heat and using a slotted spoon, remove it from the pan, leaving the cooking base in the pan itself . Transfer the guanciale to a small bowl and set it aside. Pour a ladleful of pasta water into the pan , along with the guanciale fat.
Drain the pasta al dente directly into the pan with the cooking base . Toss it briefly to flavor it . Remove from the heat and pour the egg and Pecorino mixture into the pan. Mix quickly to combine .
To make it creamy, if needed, you can add a little pasta cooking water. Add the guanciale , mix one last time , and serve the spaghetti carbonara immediately, adding more Pecorino on top and a pinch of black pepper .
We recommend consuming spaghetti carbonara immediately.
The guanciale should not be overcooked, or it may release a bitter taste. Also, it's best to add the guanciale only at the end to maintain its crunchiness.
To avoid the scrambled egg effect, it's important to add the yolk mixture only with the heat off. Stirring is an important step; you need to mix until the cream thickens. You can adjust the consistency by adding pasta cooking water. You can use half Pecorino and half Parmesan for a milder version.

