name:
Pandoro Stars with Zabaione Cream
ingredients:
Pandoro pastry: 14.1oz(400 g)- (3 slices)
Egg yolks: 4- (of organic eggs)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Marsala wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Dark chocolate: 2.5oz(70 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.3cup(65 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Imagine the crispy golden crust of a slice of pandoro just toasted, releasing its delicate buttery notes. Imagine drizzling it with a very special cream, reminiscent of Christmas, like zabaione . What can make simplicity even more perfect? Perhaps a drizzle of chocolate sauce...? We've added that too, to our pandoro stars with zabaione cream: and the result is a joy for the eyes and the palate! To conclude a sumptuous holiday menu with a good Christmas dessert or New Year's dessert, or to treat yourself to a snack rich in flavors and suggestions, this simple and delicious version of stuffed pandoro is the most tempting answer: try it yourself!
After trying the pandoro stars with zabaione cream, don't miss these pandoro recipes:

To prepare the pandoro stars with zabaione cream, start with the zabaione: place a saucepan with water on the stove and bring it to a simmer, then insert a bowl inside for the double boiling method. Add the egg yolks and sugar and whisk by hand until the mixture reaches a temperature of 180°F-185°F .
Add the Marsala wine and continue stirring . Once the mixture is light and frothy, move the bowl into a larger bowl filled with ice and water ; this will stop the cooking and prevent it from becoming scrambled.
Continue to whisk for about a minute , then transfer your zabaione into a bowl and set aside (room temperature is fine). Proceed to make the chocolate ganache: finely chop the dark chocolate and place it in a bowl.
Heat the cream in a small saucepan and once it reaches a simmer, pour it directly into the bowl with the chocolate . Stir gently with a spatula or whisk , without incorporating too much air, until the chocolate is completely melted. At this point, you'll have a smooth and creamy ganache, set aside .
Cut the pandoro horizontally starting from the base, to obtain 3 slices totaling about 14 oz of pandoro . Heat a flat non-stick pan and lightly toast the pandoro stars on both sides, being careful not to burn them .
You're ready to assemble your pandoro stars: spread a couple of tablespoons of zabaione on a serving plate and place the first toasted slice , then add another 2 tablespoons of zabaione and spread it to cover all the points well.
Add another slice of pandoro so that the points are staggered. Fill with a bit more zabaione and finish with the last slice of pandoro . Pour the remaining zabaione and spread it over the entire slice. Decorate the surface by dripping the ganache with a spoon . The pandoro stars with zabaione cream are ready; all that's left to do is serve them !
It is recommended to assemble the pandoro stars at the time of serving and to prepare the zabaione cream no more than 2 hours in advance. Freezing is not recommended.
You can also fill the pandoro stars with mascarpone cream and add berries to the filling.
Looking for an alternative to zabaione? Try our Chocolate Cream for Pandoro or the mascarpone cream for pandoro and panettone !
If you don't have a thermometer, you can use the spoon test: dip it into the mixture so that the back is coated with the cream, swipe a finger through it and check that the two parts remain separate (see the video for more details).

