name:
Lasagna with Romanesco Cauliflower and Bacon
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Romanesco cauliflower: 4.7cups(400 g)- frozen
Taleggio cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Pancetta tesa: 7oz(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Sage: to taste
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Bay leaves: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
A lasagna makes Sunday special! Even lasagna with cauliflower and bacon will be the perfect main course for a special family lunch or gathering. Romanesco cauliflower florets alternate with bacon slices and combine with the tantalizing taleggio cheese. The classic béchamel sauce flavored with sage and rosemary will make this lasagna even softer and tastier. Discover layer after layer the goodness of lasagna with Romanesco cauliflower and bacon, we are sure it will become one of your favorite variations!
Discover more delicious Lasagna recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare lasagna with Romanesco cauliflower and bacon, start by making the béchamel: heat the milk with sage and rosemary in a saucepan . In another saucepan, melt the butter over very low heat , once melted, add the flour all at once .
Stir vigorously with a wooden spoon or hand whisk to prevent lumps from forming. Continue stirring until you get a golden mixture, the roux. At this point, dilute the roux by pouring in a little hot milk , stir. Then pour in the remaining hot milk. Continue stirring over low heat for 5-6 minutes .
The correct consistency for the recipe will be medium density . Remove the aromatic herbs from the béchamel, then cut off the crust from the taleggio and chop it into pieces , add it to the béchamel .
Mix well , transfer to a wide and shallow bowl, cover with film, and let the béchamel rest at room temperature until use. Move on to the rest of the sauce: remove the seeds from the chili pepper , heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the aromatic herbs. Let it fry for about 2 or 3 minutes. Add the Romanesco cauliflower , stir.
Cover with a lid and cook over medium heat for about 10 minutes. At the end of cooking, adjust the salt, turn off and set aside the cooked Romanesco cauliflower; the pan will be used to cook the bacon cut into cubes of about 2 inches . Sauté it over high heat for about 5 minutes .
Everything is ready to assemble the lasagna: create a first layer of béchamel on the bottom of the baking dish . Place 3 sheets of pasta on the béchamel, slightly overlapping them . Add more béchamel and some Romanesco cauliflower florets to the pasta .
Add some bacon cubes as well . Then proceed again with another layer of egg sheets , béchamel, cauliflower, and bacon .
Continue this way for four layers and finally finish with béchamel , Romanesco cauliflower florets, bacon, and grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP . Adjust with pepper to taste. Bake the lasagna for about 30 minutes at 392°F in a preheated static oven; finish with 5 minutes of grill to nicely color the surface !
The lasagna with Romanesco cauliflower and bacon can be kept in the fridge for a couple of days.
The béchamel can be kept in the fridge for a couple of days.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can substitute bacon with diced cooked ham, salami, or sun-dried tomatoes for a vegetable version!

