name:
Artichoke Lasagna
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)- dry
Artichokes: 12
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 0.9lb(400 g)
Taleggio cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3cups(250 g)- to grate
White wine: 1glass
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Shallot: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(80 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Artichoke lasagna is a rich and appetizing dish, a vegetarian alternative to the classic baked lasagna , made with the traditional and timeless Bolognese sauce . The cheeses and a velvety béchamel sauce will ensure a succulent melty effect, while the artichokes, with their sweet and bitter taste, will confer their typical and unmistakable flavor. This special white lasagna with winter vegetables will thus be enriched with new and inviting aromas and scents. Next Sunday, change the menu and bring artichoke lasagna to the table, an ideal first course for the Easter lunch!
Also discover these first courses with artichokes:
Discover more delicious Lasagna recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the artichoke lasagna, start with the cleaning of the artichokes : shorten the stem and peel the remaining part, then remove the outer leaves and the tips. Cut the artichokes into wedges and finally remove the choke . While proceeding with the recipe, keep them soaking in a bowl of water with a lemon cut in half, so they don't darken. Prepare a shallot mince and sauté it in a saucepan with a drizzle of oil .
Add the well-drained artichokes and brown them over medium heat for a few minutes, then deglaze with a glass of white wine and salt .
When the alcohol has evaporated, cover with a lid and cook the artichokes for another 10 minutes . If during this time the artichokes become too dry, add half a cup of water. When they are cooked , roughly chop them with a knife .
Cut the taleggio and provolone into irregular cubes. Move on to preparing the béchamel: heat the milk flavored with salt and nutmeg .
In the meantime, melt the butter in another saucepan over low heat . Add the flour to the melted butter all at once and stir quickly with a whisk to avoid forming lumps. When the flour is completely blended, thin the mixture first with a little hot milk and then by pouring the rest.
Thicken the mixture, continuing to stir . You are ready to assemble the lasagna: cover the bottom of a 20x30 cm (8x12 inch) baking dish with a layer of béchamel , then lay down the first layer of pasta sheets .
Cover with a layer of artichokes and distribute part of the cheese cubes , then sprinkle with grated Grana cheese .
Cover with béchamel and continue layering (4 or 5) until all ingredients are used: sheets , béchamel , artichokes, cheeses, and Grana.
Finally, assemble the last layer of artichoke lasagna and cover with béchamel and artichokes. Sprinkle with plenty of grated Grana cheese and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 45 minutes , until the surface is golden brown . Serve your artichoke lasagna piping hot!
In the refrigerator, artichoke lasagna can be kept for up to one day, well covered, because cooked artichokes are very delicate.
They can be frozen after cooking if you have used fresh ingredients.
If you wish, you can replace the scamorza and taleggio with other cheeses of your choice such as fontina, brie, emmental, or mozzarella (making sure to drain it well so that it doesn't release liquids during cooking).

