name:
Microwave Pesto Lasagna
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3
Salt: to taste
Basil: 9 ½cups(200 g)
Pine nuts: 4tbsp(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Pecorino cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.4cup(100 g)
Garlic: ½clove
Ice: 3- cubes
Milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 6 ½tbsp(50 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)- (to be grated)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time in the fridge for the fresh pasta (15 min.)

instructions:
Microwave pesto lasagna is an easy and tasty first course, a quick variant of the classic oven-baked lasagna , perfect for any occasion, whether for a family meal or with friends, for a buffet, or for a special occasion. The pesto , with its fresh and aromatic flavor, gives the lasagna a unique and irresistible taste. Moreover, microwave cooking allows you to save time and effort without sacrificing flavor, for an excellent result. Thanks to the use of the microwave, cooking times are drastically reduced, allowing you to serve sumptuous pesto lasagna in just 15 minutes. Get ready to impress your guests with this recipe, we are sure that microwave pesto lasagna will become your new ace in the hole in the kitchen, giving you moments of pure culinary pleasure without giving up practicality!
Besides the lasagna recipes, you can prepare many other microwave recipes, such as:
Discover more delicious Lasagna recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare microwave pesto lasagna, start by making the fresh pasta: on a work surface, make a well with the flour, crack the eggs into the center, add a pinch of salt , and beat them quickly . Mix the dough using a dough scraper .
Then continue to knead by hand until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough . Cover with plastic wrap and let rest in the fridge for 15 minutes .
Move on to the béchamel sauce. Heat the milk in a saucepan, add the salt and nutmeg . In a small pot, prepare the roux: melt the butter coarsely chopped, then add the flour .
Stir over medium heat with a whisk to avoid lumps forming . When you have obtained a hazelnut-colored mixture, add part of the hot milk to temper it , mix, and pour it all into the remaining milk . Cook over low heat until you obtain a viscous sauce, then set aside.
Finally, prepare the pesto: in a mixer, place the basil, then add the pine nuts , the Parmesan, the pecorino , and the garlic .
Also add the ice , the oil , and adjust the salt. Blend intermittently to avoid overheating the mixture until you achieve a creamy consistency .
Take the dough and divide it to make it easier to handle. Roll out the dough with a pasta machine , gradually adjusting the thickness until you reach a thickness of 1-2 mm. Cut the sheets into rectangles of 6x4 inches , then blanch them in salted water .
Lay the pasta sheets on a lightly greased tray and let them cool slightly . Assemble the lasagna in a 10x10 inch pan, spreading a layer of oil and a ladle of béchamel on the bottom, then continue with the pesto and add a bit of pepper .
Place another layer of pasta sheets and continue in the same way until you reach a total of 5 layers. Finish by sprinkling the surface with Parmesan . Cook in the microwave at 500 W for 10 minutes, then continue cooking for another 5 minutes in grill mode. The microwave pesto lasagna is ready !
Microwave pesto lasagna can be stored in the fridge, already cooked, for 2 days.
You can prepare the pesto in advance and store it in the refrigerator for up to 4-5 days in a closed container, ensuring you pour a little oil on the surface.
If you want more substantial lasagna, you can add speck and toasted walnuts to each layer!

