name:
Lasagna with Winter Vegetables
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 5
Delica pumpkin: 2 ¼cups(500 g)- (to clean)
Broccoli: 3.3cups(300 g)- (to clean)
Swiss chard: 8 ½cups(300 g)
Crescenza cheese: 1 ½cup(330 g)
Porcini mushrooms: 2.1oz(60 g)- dried
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to be grated)
Garlic: 3cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
What better way to make vegetables appetizing than diving them into a creamy lasagna? Try our winter vegetable lasagna recipe and taste the goodness! Broccoli and greens are enriched with dried porcini mushrooms and alternate with an aromatic pumpkin and crescenza cream that gives everything a velvety texture. Easy to prepare thanks to the use of ready-made pasta sheets, winter vegetable lasagna is perfect to serve as a first course for Sunday lunch, a tasty and genuine way to pamper your family!
Don't miss these other lasagna recipes for the coldest season:
Discover more delicious Lasagna recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the winter vegetable lasagna, first soak the dried porcini mushrooms in warm water . Clean the pumpkin , peel it, and cut it into cubes .
Heat a splash of oil in a saucepan and let it infuse with a clove of garlic with its skin on , then add the pumpkin cubes , salt and pepper.
Add the thyme and sauté for a few minutes, then add a little water and cook over medium heat for about 10 minutes. When the cubes are soft and well-cooked, turn off the heat, remove the garlic, and set aside .
Move on to the other vegetables: remove the stem from the broccoli and separate the florets , then bring a pot of salted water to a boil .
Place the florets in the boiling water and blanch them for 2-3 minutes , then drain them into ice water , saving the cooking water.
Do the same with the greens after washing them: blanch them for a minute in the same broccoli water , then drain them into ice water . In a pan, flavor a drizzle of oil with a clove of garlic with its skin on and a chili pepper cut into rings .
Add the greens and broccoli , lightly salt, and sauté over high heat just long enough to dry them from excess liquid. Remove the garlic and set aside; if the vegetables are very watery, you can let them drain in a colander.
Now squeeze the mushrooms well from the soaking water and place them in a pan with hot oil and a clove of garlic . Salt and sauté them for a few minutes until they are nicely golden . Set aside.
Transfer the cooked pumpkin into a pitcher, add 5.8 oz of crescenza cheese and blend with an immersion mixer to obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream .
You are ready to assemble your lasagna: take a baking dish of about 8x7 inches and place an egg lasagna sheet on the base , then spread some pumpkin cream over the entire surface and part of the mushrooms .
Add some greens and broccoli and dollops of the remaining crescenza , then sprinkle with grated Parmigiano Reggiano .
Cover with another lasagna sheet and repeat the layers in the same way until you reach a total of 5 . Bake in a static oven at 450°F for 10 minutes, then remove from the oven and let rest for a few minutes. Your winter vegetable lasagna is ready to be served !
The winter vegetable lasagna can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze them after cooking and allowing them to cool completely.
Don't throw away the broccoli stem and scraps: you can use them to make delicious Bruschetta with Broccoli Cream !

