name:
Lasagna with ham and spinach
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 11.3oz(320 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 14oz(400 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 10tbsp(50 g)
Spinach: 10 ½cups(1 kg)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
Reinterpreting lasagna is never easy, but today we want to surprise you with our lasagna with ham and spinach! A white variant that stands out for its creaminess and rich balance of flavors, thanks to the generous presence of béchamel sauce and the unique touch that only cooked ham can give. And to make this lasagna even more delicious, we added sautéed spinach with garlic and chili... by varying this vegetable with other seasonal ones, you can prepare a new recipe each time to delight your guests! Lasagna with ham and spinach not only offers a tasty alternative for those who want to stray from the classic ragù , but it's an ideal first course for family dinners, special occasions, or simply when you want to indulge in something incredibly comforting and satisfying. Discover with us how to prepare it! Here are more lasagna recipes to try:
Discover more delicious Lasagna recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare lasagna with ham and spinach, start with the spinach. Place them in a pan with a drizzle of oil and a pinch of salt, stir , and let them wilt over medium-low heat for a few minutes .
Transfer them to a colander to remove excess liquid . In the same pan, sauté oil, garlic, and chili , then add the spinach .
Saute for a few minutes to flavor them, then transfer them to a bowl . Now focus on the béchamel: in a saucepan, pour the butter and let it melt, then add the flour and mix quickly.
Then pour the cold milk in a stream while continuing to stir until it thickens. Add plenty of grated nutmeg and a pinch of salt .
Mix well and remove the béchamel from the heat. Now assemble the lasagna, using a baking dish measuring 12x8 inches: place some béchamel on the bottom , then lay 3 egg sheets and cover with more béchamel .
Spread it well with the back of a spoon , then add the spinach and place the slices of cooked ham on top . Add some mozzarella and grated Parmesan cheese .
Continue with a layer of lasagna, more béchamel, spinach , ham , mozzarella, and grated Parmesan cheese .
Continue alternating the ingredients in this way until you get 5 layers. The last layer should consist of pasta sheets and plenty of béchamel . Spread it well with the back of the spoon. Cut the remaining cooked ham into strips .
Distribute the ham strips over the béchamel , then add a little more mozzarella and grated Parmesan cheese . Bake in a preheated oven at 430°F for 20-25 minutes, positioning the pan on the lowest rack for the first 15 minutes and on the highest rack for the remaining 10. Remove from the oven and serve your lasagna with ham and spinach !
Lasagna with ham and spinach can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container. If preferred, you can also freeze it, better after cooking.
Instead of Parmesan, you can use Pecorino for a richer flavor. You can also use other seasonal vegetables: zucchini, eggplant, or broccoli, for example!

