name:
Lasagna with Artichokes and Gorgonzola
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 9.5oz(270 g)- (about 15)
Gorgonzola cheese: 7.8oz(220 g)
Artichokes: 7- (to clean)
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: ¼cup(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
Are you looking for a rich and substantial main course for a family lunch? Artichoke and Gorgonzola lasagna is perfect for satisfying both taste and appetite! The lasagna sheets are alternated with layers of creamy béchamel , sautéed artichokes , and chunks of Gorgonzola, the famous blue cheese from Lombardy that, melting with all the other ingredients, will give the dish that extra kick of flavor. Take advantage of the season to prepare artichoke and Gorgonzola lasagna and you'll fall in love at the first bite!
Also try these variations:
Discover more delicious Lasagna recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the artichoke and Gorgonzola lasagna, first prepare the béchamel: as you melt the butter in a saucepan , heat the milk flavored with nutmeg and salt in a separate pan.
When the butter has melted, add the flour all at once and quickly stir with a whisk until you get a golden roux. At this point, add a ladleful of hot milk and mix well.
Add the rest of the milk and continue stirring over low heat to prevent lumps from forming . It will take 5-6 minutes to reach the right consistency , then transfer the béchamel to a baking dish, cover with cling film in contact, and let it cool at room temperature .
Move on to cleaning the artichokes: remove the outer leaves until you reach the heart , then peel the stem . Separate the flower from the stem .
Cut the stem into chunks , then trim the tips from the artichoke heart and cut it in half lengthwise .
Remove the choke and finally, cut it into wedges . Immerse the cleaned and cut artichokes in a bowl of acidulated water .
In a large pan, heat the oil with a clove of garlic , then add the drained artichokes . Sauté the artichokes for 5 minutes, then deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate completely.
Now add salt, cover with the lid, lower the heat and continue cooking for about 10 minutes . When they are tender, remove the lid and set aside . Meanwhile, remove the rind from the Gorgonzola and cut it into cubes .
At this point, take the béchamel again and stir with the whisk to soften it . You are ready to assemble the lasagna: cover the bottom of a 10x7.5 inch baking dish with a thin layer of béchamel , then place the lasagna sheets overlapping them slightly .
Spread another layer of béchamel , then distribute some of the artichokes and a few chunks of Gorgonzola .
Cover with the sheets and continue in this way until you have a total of 5 layers of lasagna, finishing with béchamel, artichokes, and Gorgonzola . Bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F for 45 minutes. Once cooked, take out and serve your tasty artichoke and Gorgonzola lasagna !
The artichoke and Gorgonzola lasagna can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 2 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze the raw lasagna and cook it after letting it thaw.
Drain the artichokes well before adding them to the pan; otherwise, it will be necessary to cook them for longer.

