name:
Prawn, Lime, and Prosecco Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 2cups(400 g)
Shrimps: 12
Prosecco: 1.1cups(250 g)
Lime: 1- zest and juice
Vegetable broth: 3cups(750 g)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)
Coarse salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + preparation of the vegetable broth

instructions:
Between one toast and another during the New Year's Eve celebration, take the opportunity to make an original prawn, lime, and prosecco risotto! A refined first course that will pleasantly surprise your guests with its fresh and intense aroma. The prawn, lime, and prosecco risotto is also a less expensive alternative to the classic champagne risotto or its Risotto with Champagne and Scampi , ensuring you still make a great impression.
Also try the prawn and leek risotto , a version with a gourmet touch!
Discover more delicious Risotto recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the prawn, lime, and prosecco risotto, first prepare the vegetable broth. Proceed to clean the shellfish: remove the head and cut the belly with the tip of a knife , then extract the intestine . Shell half of the prawns and leave the other half with the shell .
Melt the butter in a large pan, then add the rice and toast it for a few minutes, adding the salt and stirring constantly .
At this point, deglaze with the prosecco and let the alcohol evaporate completely. Then cook the rice by adding a ladle of broth at a time . While the rice is cooking, add the grated lime zest , then squeeze the juice and set it aside.
When there are 5 minutes left until the rice is cooked, add both the shelled prawns and those with the shell , pour in the lime juice , and finish cooking by adding another ladle of broth if necessary. Serve your prawn, lime, and prosecco risotto garnished with a curl of lime zest !
It is recommended to consume the prawn, lime, and prosecco risotto immediately or store it in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day.
For a creamier result, stir in a knob of butter with the heat off.

