name:
Jewish-style Artichoke with Poached Egg
ingredients:
Purple artichokes: 2
Eggs: 2- medium
Mint: 1bunch
Lemons: 1
White wine vinegar: 1spoonful
Fine salt: to taste
Maldon salt: to taste
Whole milk: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Pecorino cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Parsley: 1bunch
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 ml)
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the Jewish-style artichoke with poached egg, first prepare the parsley oil: in a tall glass pour in the parsley leaves and the oil , blend with an immersion blender .
Once you have obtained a smooth sauce , filter it through a fine-mesh sieve to obtain the parsley oil .
Put the mint leaves in the microwave for two minutes at maximum power and sift them .
Set aside the aromatic powder obtained . Clean the artichokes: remove the outer leaves , peel the stem .
Cut off the tip slightly open the leaves . Rub a little lemon over them so they don't turn black .
Fry the artichokes in oil at 340°F until they become crispy and drain them on paper towels for frying and let them cool on paper towels . Heat the water with vinegar in the pot .
Bring to a boil, then lower the heat and create the typical swirl with the spoon , pour an egg at a time into the center of it . Cook for three minutes and when the white has coagulated around the yolk, gently remove the egg with a slotted spoon .
Keep the eggs warm . In a double boiler, melt the Pecorino in the milk . Stir until it becomes a slightly liquid fondue .
Then fry the artichokes a second time and drain them again on paper towels for frying. Cut the artichoke stems into pieces, season with a few drops of lemon juice . Now assemble the preparations: pour the fondue onto the plate .
Finish with the parsley oil, the artichoke with the stems, finally the egg and the mint powder. The Jewish-style artichoke with poached egg is ready, enjoy it hot .
We recommend consuming the preparation immediately.
When artichokes are fresh in season, it is not necessary to remove the inner fuzz during cleaning.

