name:
Quick Christmas Danubio
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(275 g)
Spinach: 5cups(150 g)
Whole milk: 0.3cup(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 2tsp(8 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: 0.8tsp(5 g)
Edam cheese: 4.2oz(120 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 7 ½tbsp(90 g)
Whole milk: to taste
Sunflower seeds: to taste
Flax seed: to taste
Pumpkin seeds: to taste
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: to taste
Salted ricotta cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
This year, the holiday tree will be all about biting into with our quick Christmas Danube recipe. In the eternal debate between a real tree and a fake tree, you can choose the tree to eat inspired by the savory Danube , a tasty and convivial rustic dish! This fun idea will allow you to kick off your Christmas feasts with a fun and tantalizing appetizer, filled with melting Edam cheese and sun-dried tomatoes. A soft and clever dough, which does not require rising, will make everything simpler and faster. We are sure that once you bring it to the table for the Christmas lunch, your guests will compete for the last tasty ball! Here are some other vegetarian recipes for your Christmas, such as:

To make the quick Christmas Danube, first, take care of the spinach: wash the leaves, then heat a drizzle of oil with garlic in a pan and add the spinach . Cover with a lid and let them wilt over high heat for about 5 minutes, then remove the garlic and turn off the heat .
Transfer the cooked spinach to the mixer bowl and blend them until you get a smooth and well-chopped mixture . Cut the cheese into small cubes .
Chop the sun-dried tomatoes drained from the preservation oil . Now pour the flour into a large bowl, add the spinach puree and the egg yolk .
Start kneading by hand and pour the milk gradually , 1 tbsp of oil , and the instant yeast for savory preparations .
Finally, incorporate the salt and finish kneading on a work surface . Form a homogeneous dough ball .
Divide the dough with a dough scraper into 11 equally-sized balls . Flatten each ball with a rolling pin to form a disc .
Fill each disc with cheese cubes and tomatoes , then close the dough into a pouch to regain the shape of a ball .
Place the balls on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper to form a small tree . Brush the surface with milk and garnish with mixed seeds .
Bake in a static oven preheated to 356°F for 30 minutes. Once cooking is complete, remove the Danube from the oven , place it on a cutting board, and garnish with sun-dried tomatoes and grated salted ricotta . The quick Christmas Danube is ready to be served .
Store the quick Christmas Danube under a glass dome for one day and heat it before serving. You can freeze it after cooking.
For the filling of the Danube, you can unleash your creativity: olives, anchovies, diced ham, and all the tastiest ingredients you can think of!

