name:
Baked pasta and potatoes
ingredients:
Tubetti pasta: 2cups(320 g)
Potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Provola cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Celery: 1rib- with leaves
Spring onions: 1
Carrots: 1
Tomato purée: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Among the winter first courses we love the most, there is undoubtedly pasta and potatoes , a dish with rustic and simple flavors, ideal for warming up on the coldest days. Here we have revisited this timeless classic of homemade cuisine by making baked pasta and potatoes, an even richer baked version thanks to the addition of a tantalizing ingredient: provolone cheese, which, melting during cooking, will deliciously envelop the pasta. Treat yourself to a warm and comforting meal at the table with our appetizing recipe!
Here are other variations of the traditional pasta and potatoes:

To prepare baked pasta and potatoes, start with the sauté: chop the carrots , celery, including leaves , and spring onion .
Cut the potatoes into small cubes as well . Bring a pot of water to a boil, and in the meantime, sauté the vegetables in a pan with olive oil . Add the potatoes and brown them .
Pour in the tomato sauce , salt , and add the pasta .
Cook the pasta by adding a ladle of boiling water at a time , as you do with risotto. Meanwhile, cut the provolone into cubes . At the end of cooking, adjust the salt, turn off, and stir in the grated Parmesan cheese .
Add some of the diced provolone, leaving a few cubes aside for the top. Transfer the pasta to a baking dish .
Sprinkle with Parmesan on the surface and bake in a static oven with grill at 350°F for about 15 minutes . The baked pasta and potatoes are ready to be enjoyed .
Baked pasta and potatoes can be stored for one day in the refrigerator.
Freezing is not recommended.
In addition to or instead of provolone, you can use other stringy cheeses like smoked scamorza and mozzarella.
You can sprinkle with a mix of grated cheeses like Parmesan and Pecorino.
The spring onion can be replaced with red or yellow onion.
For an extra flavor kick, you can add pancetta or crumbled sausage to the sauté!

