name:
Risotto with Mascarpone and Pink Pepper
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1cup(320 g)
Mascarpone cheese: ¾cup(180 g)
Vegetable broth: 8 ½cups(2 l)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Pink peppercorn: 1tsp(4 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Risotto with mascarpone and pink pepper is a refined yet very simple first course, with an enveloping taste that can be prepared in a short time. The rice is toasted with very little oil and the addition of pink pepper, which, as it heats, releases all its aroma. Meanwhile, the main ingredient of this dish, mascarpone, is added halfway through cooking, allowing the rice to absorb its flavor. Thanks to the mascarpone and the final creaming, this risotto will be really creamy. Prepare it yourself and discover this unique combination, perfect for a romantic dinner and beyond! If you liked this recipe, here are other dishes we recommend you try:
To prepare the risotto with mascarpone and pink pepper, first heat the vegetable broth. Meanwhile, crush the pink pepper berries by pressing with the blade of a knife , then chop them . In a large pan, pour a drizzle of oil and let it heat up. Then add the rice .
Add a pinch of salt and half of the pink pepper . Toast the rice, stirring often. At this point, start the actual cooking of the risotto. Pour in the broth until it covers the rice. Continue cooking in this way, adding broth as needed . The rice should always simmer and you must stir it often.
About halfway through cooking, add the mascarpone and continue to stir , adding a little broth at a time. When cooking time is up, turn off the heat and let the rice rest for a couple of minutes, then start the creaming. Add the remaining pink pepper first .
Add the grated Grana cheese , the butter , and the grated lemon zest .
Finally, add a drizzle of oil , stir vigorously , and serve .
We recommend consuming the risotto immediately.
When you add the mascarpone, make sure the rice is slightly dry so that the cheese is well absorbed by the rice.

