name:
Risotto alla carbonara
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Egg yolks: 8- with yellow flesh
Jowls: 0.55lb(250 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
White wine: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Marjoram: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Note + the time to prepare the vegetable broth

instructions:
The carbonara is one of the most famous and tricky recipes of Italian cuisine. If instead of pasta we use rice, what we get is an equally creamy and flavorful first course, the carbonara risotto! All the traditional elements are here: crispy pork cheek, pecorino cheese, and egg yolks, to be added strictly off the heat. Consequently, the taste cannot disappoint, in fact... after tasting our carbonara risotto, we bet you'll want to try these variations as well:
Discover more delicious Carbonara recipes and elevate your cooking game!
Discover more delicious Risotto recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the carbonara risotto, first make the vegetable broth and keep it warm. Pour the egg yolks into a bowl , then add the grated pecorino cheese and pepper .
Mix well , then place the bowl on a saucepan in a bain-marie and continue to stir over medium-low heat until the mixture is creamy .
Set aside and deal with the pork cheek: after removing the rind, cut it first into slices and then into strips . Place the pork cheek in a preheated pan .
Let the pork cheek sweat over low heat for about 10 minutes . When it is crispy and golden, remove it from the pan and transfer it onto paper towels . Now pour the rice into a saucepan and toast it dry, stirring often.
Deglaze with the white wine and let the alcohol evaporate completely, then cook the rice by adding a ladleful of hot broth at a time, making sure the liquid is absorbed each time before adding more . Three-quarters of the way through the cooking time, turn off the heat, cover with a lid , and let it rest for 3 minutes.
After this time, add the egg and pecorino mixture and mix well , then add about half of the browned pork cheek and mix again .
Plate and garnish with the remaining pork cheek and a few marjoram leaves . Your carbonara risotto is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the carbonara risotto immediately after preparation.
It is not possible to prepare the yolk and pecorino cream in advance.
For an extra flavor boost, you can cream the risotto with the pork cheek's cooking fat!
Also try other classic dishes in risotto form, such as amatriciana risotto , Risotto cacio e pepe , or puttanesca risotto !

