name:
Gnocchi alla carbonara
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Egg yolks: 6
Jowls: 6.3oz(180 g)- small cuts
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 10.6oz(300 g)- (to grate)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
The carbonara is not just a recipe, but a true institution! For those who are crazy about this first course, we have a really appetizing variation: gnocchi carbonara. The creamy sauce made with yolks, pecorino, and pepper remains unchanged, but instead of classic spaghetti or rigatoni, we used homemade potato gnocchi . The crispy guanciale, browned in a pan, contrasts with the soft texture of the gnocchi. These few essential elements are enough to create a small masterpiece... prepare gnocchi carbonara yourself and you'll see!
Here are other delicious carbonara variations:
Discover more delicious Carbonara recipes and elevate your cooking game!
Discover more delicious Gnocchi recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the gnocchi carbonara, first boil the potatoes starting with cold water, calculating about 30-40 minutes from boiling . When they are soft enough to pierce with a fork, drain and peel them . Mash the potatoes in a bowl using a potato masher .
Place the mashed potatoes on the work surface, creating a well in the center, then add the flour , a pinch of salt , and the egg .
Start gathering the ingredients with a dough cutter , then continue to knead with your hands until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough .
Divide the dough into small portions , then form them into logs , lightly flouring the work surface .
Cut the logs into small pieces , then roll them over the tines of a fork to create the typical ridges . Place the gnocchi on a lightly floured tray .
Move on to the sauce: place the guanciale in a hot pan and brown it over medium heat until crispy . Drain the browned guanciale to collect the cooking fat and set aside.
Place the egg yolks in a bowl with grated Pecorino , then add some of the guanciale cooking fat while whisking to combine . Pepper to taste .
Place the bowl over a saucepan and continue to stir the mixture in a double boiler for a couple of minutes . Meanwhile, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the gnocchi ; add a drizzle of oil to the boiling water to prevent sticking. As soon as the gnocchi float to the surface, drain and transfer them to a bowl .
If necessary, dilute the egg and Pecorino mixture with a little cooking water , then pour it into the bowl with the gnocchi and mix well .
Plate the gnocchi and add the crispy guanciale . Finish with freshly ground pepper and more cheese to taste. Your gnocchi carbonara is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the gnocchi carbonara immediately.
For making gnocchi, we recommend using red or older potatoes as they are less watery. Also, it's important to mash and knead them while still hot, so they absorb less flour.
With the leftover egg whites, you can make a tasty Egg White Omelette !

