name:
Seafood Carbonara with Shrimp
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Tuna: 3.5oz(100 g)
Swordfish: 3.5oz(100 g)
Shrimps: 12
Lime peel: to taste
Salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Pecorino cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)
Egg yolks: 4
Tuna Bottarga: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
The seafood carbonara with shrimp is a main course dish that combines the tradition of Italian cuisine with the fresh and refined flavors of the sea, inspired by the typical Spaghetti alla carbonara . Unlike the classic seafood carbonara , here you will find the shrimp, undisputed protagonists, used in various forms: tartare and bisque , providing the dish with a variety of textures and flavors. The swordfish and diced tuna bring a pleasant texture and robust flavor that harmoniously contrasts with the richness of the yolk and pecorino cream. A sprinkle of raw bottarga completes the picture with an intense and savory note. Get ready to surprise your guests with a sophisticated and flavorful dish.
If you are looking for other shrimp main courses, also try:
Discover more delicious Carbonara recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the seafood carbonara with shrimp, first clean the shrimp . Remove the heads and set them aside. Remove the intestines and shells. Chop the flesh into small cubes .
Transfer them to a bowl and add the lime zest , a pinch of salt , white pepper, and oil . Let marinate.
Meanwhile, in a bowl put the pecorino, add some white pepper and the yolks . Mix everything and cook in a double boiler .
In a blender, place the shrimp heads, add 1.5 tbsp of oil , 2 tbsp of water and blend .
Strain the mixture through a fine mesh strainer to obtain the shrimp bisque . Cut the tuna into cubes about 3/4 inch .
Do the same for the swordfish . In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, add the tuna and swordfish cubes, season with salt and pepper . Sauté over high heat for 2 minutes and set aside.
Meanwhile, cook the pasta in plenty of salted boiling water . In the same pan where you cooked the fish, pour in the shrimp bisque , add the pasta, drained al dente .
Also add the pecorino and yolk cream to the pan and toss for a few minutes . Then add the tuna and swordfish and toss for a few more minutes. If needed, you can add some pasta cooking water to make the pasta a bit creamier.
Plate and finish with the shrimp tartare and a sprinkle of bottarga . Your seafood carbonara with shrimp is ready to be enjoyed .
It's best to consume the seafood carbonara with shrimp as soon as it's ready, but if there are leftovers, you can store it in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for up to 1 day.
Bottarga and pecorino are naturally salty ingredients, so when adding salt during the preparation, do so sparingly and taste frequently. If you love spicy, you can add chili or spicy paprika to the yolk cream. You can enrich the dish with a few leaves of fresh herbs like basil, parsley, or thyme.

