name:
Fake saffron carbonara
ingredients:
Spaghettoni: 11.3oz(320 g)- from Gragnano
Jowls: 2.8oz(80 g)- of Casertana black pig
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Black olives: to taste- caiazzane (powdered)
Onions: 2- alifane
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Cream of milk: 3cups(700 g)- from buffalo
Saffron threads: 0tsp(0.2 g)
Jowls: 7oz(200 g)- of Caserta black piglet
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
How many times have you wondered how to prepare a carbonara without eggs? From today, this is possible! Chef Rosanna Marziale will show us all the secrets to make her fake saffron carbonara. And it is precisely thanks to this spice that her velvety cream will have the same color as egg yolks, albeit with a distinctly different taste. Of course, we didn't skimp on the guanciale... we used it in two forms: blended to flavor the cream and in small well-toasted cubes to decorate the dish. Inside the recipe, you will also discover a truly tasty addition, the Alfitane onions, well grilled and blended with the rest of the ingredients to impart all their sweetness! The recipe is simple, but you should not underestimate the choice of ingredients, like the pasta, which must be strictly from Gragnano, as its roughness will absorb the sauce perfectly! Here are other variations of the classic recipe not to be missed:
Discover more delicious Carbonara recipes and elevate your cooking game!

To prepare the fake carbonara, start with the onions. Peel them and cut them in half . Place the onions on a grill, adding a drizzle of oil on top .
Let them grill, then turn them to the other side and add another drizzle of oil. Continue to grill the onions for about 15 minutes, turning them occasionally . They should be soft and well-grilled. Then transfer them to a bowl and let them cool .
Now pour the buffalo milk into a bowl and infuse the saffron threads . Stir with a whisk until the saffron has dissolved and the cream has taken on the same color as the yolk. Now take care of the guanciale. Cut the 200 grams into larger cubes .
While the other 80 g, cut them into smaller cubes . Now pour some oil into a small pan, heat it, and add the larger cubes of guanciale . Let it simmer gently until it is well-flavored but still soft. Then let it cool in the oil.
Then strain the buffalo milk and saffron cream , transferring it into a tall, narrow container. Add the grilled onions, removing the overly dark parts , as they might be too bitter and change the color of your cream. Then add the guanciale with its oil .
Blend with an immersion blender and transfer the mixture into a fine-mesh sieve placed over a bowl . Strain it to obtain a smooth cream .
Now place the guanciale cut into small cubes in a hot pan . Let it toast until it becomes crispy. Then transfer it to a small tray with paper towels and let it rest .
Now it's time to cook the pasta in boiling, salted water to taste . Pour the sauce obtained into a pan, adjust with salt and pepper . Heat it and as soon as the pasta is al dente, drain it and transfer it inside. Mix and toss to combine everything well.
Transfer the pasta to plates, finish with the crispy guanciale and the Caiazzane olive powder . The fake carbonara is ready to serve.
We recommend consuming the pasta immediately.
If you can't find saffron threads, you can use a sachet of powdered saffron.
To make the Caiazzane olive powder, just pit them, bake at 158°F for about an hour, and blend them. Then pass them through a fine sieve to obtain the powder.
Instead of buffalo milk cream, you can use cow's milk mozzarella cream, perhaps with a small addition of cream. Clearly, the flavor will be more delicate.

