name:
Viareggio-style seafood carbonara
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Mussels: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to clean)
Clams: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to clean)
Calamari (squid): 0.75lb(300 g)- (to clean)
Shrimps: 12
Eggs: 2
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 3.3tbsp(50 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Parsley: to taste- to chop
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
The carbonara pasta is a staple of Lazio cuisine. Unique, unquestionable, inimitable. But on the Viareggio coast, you can enjoy a special pasta dish that was born right here: the Viareggio-style seafood carbonara! A first course of seafood that has become part of the culinary identity of this area of Tuscany. A version that differs from the seafood carbonara or salmon carbonara because it's enriched with mussels, clams, shrimp, and squid! The egg cream, however, is not made with Pecorino but with a splash of cream... an addition that purists of carbonara may not approve of, but it will allow you to achieve a flavorful and enveloping sauce, perfect for spaghetti. Are you skeptical? Don't worry, the Viareggio-style seafood carbonara will convince you with the first bite!
Try these tasty variations too:
Discover more delicious Carbonara recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the Viareggio-style seafood carbonara, first prepare the ingredients: clean the squid and cut them into rings, then remove the shell from the shrimp and take out the black vein. Clean the clams and mussels as well . For further instructions, you can look at our guides: how to clean squid , how to clean shrimp , How to clean clams , how to clean mussels .
In a pot, heat a drizzle of oil with a clove of garlic, then add the mussels and clams , cover with the lid and cook over high heat for a few minutes.
When the shellfish have all opened , turn off the heat and strain the cooking liquid . Shell the mussels and clams, leaving some whole for decoration .
Put a pot of water on the stove to cook the pasta and add almost all of the shellfish liquid , reserving a little. In another pan, heat a dash of oil with a clove of garlic , then add the squid .
Add the shrimp and sauté for 3-4 minutes, then deglaze with the reserved liquid and remove the garlic .
Add the mussels and clams to the pan with the squid and shrimp , stir and turn off the heat . Meanwhile, the water will have come to a boil, so moderately salt it and cook the spaghetti .
Meanwhile, prepare the egg cream: pour the whole eggs and yolk into a bowl, salt , pepper and add the cream , then mix well with a whisk to obtain a homogeneous mixture .
Drain the spaghetti directly into the pan , add a ladle of the pasta cooking water and briefly toss everything together. At this point, turn off the heat and pour in the egg cream, mixing quickly to prevent it from setting .
Flavor with chopped parsley and stir again . Serve your Viareggio-style seafood carbonara immediately !
It is recommended to consume the Viareggio-style seafood carbonara immediately.
You can customize the sauce using your preferred seafood and shellfish!

