name:
Asparagus Carbonara
ingredients:
Tortiglioni pasta: 11.5oz(320 g)
Egg yolks: 5
Asparagus: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Pecorino cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
How many ways are there to prepare carbonara ? For purists, only one, but as you know, we love to propose variations on the theme, just like today's: asparagus carbonara! This vegetarian version doesn't try to mimic the original but aims to please everyone! The classic creamy yolk and Pecorino sauce remains, but instead of guanciale, there will be asparagus: a perfect first course to prepare in spring and enjoy on many occasions! For pasta shape, we chose to use tortiglioni, but you can make this recipe even more "your own" by choosing what you prefer: spaghetti, mezze maniche, fusilli, or farfalle will all work great! If you also like experimenting with new recipes, here are other versions you absolutely cannot miss:
Try them all and let us know which one is your favorite!
Discover more delicious Carbonara recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare asparagus carbonara, start with the asparagus. Wash and trim them, removing the woody part. To determine how much stalk to remove, lightly press with your finger on the stalk to break it . It will snap at the right point, thus eliminating the hardest part . In a pot, pour water that will be used for cooking the pasta. Add the asparagus scraps and bring to a boil; it will then be used to cook the pasta!
Meanwhile, slice the asparagus stalks into rounds about 0.4 inches thick, keeping the tips intact . In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, heat slightly, and add the sliced asparagus .
Season with salt and pepper, stir occasionally, and let them season. Add a ladleful of cooking water (from the stalks) and cook over moderate heat for about 5 minutes .
Remove the asparagus stalks , salt to taste and toss in the tortiglioni . Cook the pasta and in the meantime, in a bowl, combine the yolks, a ladleful of cooking water, and grated Pecorino . Mix well and set aside.
Drain the tortiglioni al dente and transfer them directly to the pan with the asparagus , mix. Then remove the pan from the heat, add the yolk and Pecorino cream .
and stir well and quickly . Add black pepper to taste , stir once more and serve !
It is recommended to consume the asparagus carbonara immediately after preparation.
For a milder flavor, you can use half Pecorino and half Parmesan or Grana.

