name:
Salmon Carbonara
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Salmon fillets: 10.6oz(300 g)
Eggs: 1- (medium)
Egg yolks: 3- (of medium eggs)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- to be grated
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The original recipe with guanciale is unbeatable, but its variations are not far behind! We are talking about carbonara , of which we have experimented with various versions, including seafood carbonara ... and it was precisely by drawing inspiration from the latter that we chose today's dish, salmon carbonara! Made with cubes of fresh fish sautéed in a pan, it is seasoned with the classic creamy sauce made of eggs, pepper, and Pecorino, which must be added away from the heat to prevent it from becoming lumpy. Try salmon carbonara yourself and discover how many other variations of this dish exist:
Discover more delicious Carbonara recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the salmon carbonara, first bring a pot of water to a boil to cook the pasta. Remove the skin from the salmon fillet and cut it into cubes about 3/4 inch on each side . Heat the oil in a pan with the garlic clove , then add the salmon cubes and sauté over high heat for 2-3 minutes.
Season with salt, remove the garlic from the pan, and set aside . In the meantime, the water will have reached a boil, so salt it and add the spaghetti . While the pasta is cooking, place the egg and yolks in a bowl and beat them with a fork.
Add the grated cheese and ground pepper to taste , then mix again to combine everything .
Drain the pasta al dente and add it to the pan with the salmon, turn on moderate heat, and briefly mix while adding a ladle of the cooking water . At this point, remove the pan from the heat and pour in the egg and Pecorino mixture , stirring quickly and well, adding more cooking water if needed. Season with another grind of pepper and serve your salmon carbonara immediately !
It is recommended to consume the salmon carbonara immediately.
If you don't have fresh salmon and want to use smoked salmon, you can cut it into strips and sauté it in the pan for a few seconds! For a milder taste, you can substitute part of the Pecorino with grated Parmesan.

