name:
Vegetable Carbonara
ingredients:
Gluten-free Spaghetti pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Asparagus: 1lb(470 g)- (to clean)
Peas: 2 ½cups(400 g)- (to shell)
Snap peas: 2 ½cups(250 g)
Carrots: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Egg yolks: 5
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)- (to be grated)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Along with lasagna, carbonara is undoubtedly one of the Italian dishes that best represents us abroad and not only. A genuine recipe, with few characteristic ingredients and an unmistakable taste, capable of putting everyone in agreement! Today we offer you a delicious vegetable carbonara that will be able to spark the most fervent discussions. Some believe that carbonara is only the one with pecorino and guanciale, while others are tempted by many new versions, like this one rich in spring delights! Before deciding which side to take, we recommend trying this delicious vegetarian first course and only then taking a stand! Besides the vegetable carbonara, here are other variants not to be missed:
Discover more delicious Carbonara recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the vegetable carbonara, first peel the carrots and cut them into 2 or 3 pieces, depending on their length . Slice each piece first, then cut into sticks lengthwise . Move on to the snow peas: wash them well and trim them, removing the string .
At this point, cut them into diamond shapes or sticks if they are long . Break the asparagus to remove the tougher part of the stalk and peel the rest , then cut them in half .
Divide them again in half, but this time lengthwise to obtain sticks . Move on to the peas: snap the pod and remove the string to open them .
Shell the peas and collect them in a bowl . At this point, place a pot full of salted water on the stove, which will be used for cooking the pasta. In a large pan, pour a drizzle of oil and add a clove of garlic . Let it infuse without browning too much.
Add the asparagus and sauté over high heat for a couple of minutes; add the snow peas and wait another 2-3 minutes. If the base has dried too much, moisten it with a ladle of cooking water. At this point, also add the carrots and peas . Season with salt and pepper, then toss everything and cook for about 6 minutes.
Meanwhile, pour the yolks into a bowl along with the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP and mix until a creamy consistency is achieved . Adjust the consistency by adding a little cooking water.
When the water has reached a boil, add the pasta . As soon as the vegetables are ready, remove the garlic clove and keep them warm. Drain the pasta al dente and transfer it to the pan with the vegetables .
Add a ladle of cooking water and the egg cream . Mix well with the heat off .
Adjust the consistency by adding possibly a little more cooking water . Plate , also adding the creamy sauce and vegetables on the pasta . Finish with a grind of black pepper and serve your vegetable carbonara immediately!
Any form of preservation is discouraged once the vegetable carbonara is ready. If you wish to get ahead with preparations, you can already wash and cut all the vegetables; if you prefer, you can also cook them a few hours in advance. However, in this case, keep in mind that the vegetables will lose color and texture.
Variations on the theme? Let yourself be inspired by your tastes! Vegetable carbonara can be enriched with green beans, zucchini, broad beans, and even monk's beard (agretti). If you prefer a version to prepare in cold seasons, choose broccoli, cauliflower, and cabbage; just blanch them a bit before sautéing them in a pan! Don't throw away the scraps and peels of the vegetables, they're perfect for making broth for a risotto!

