name:
Baked Carbonara
ingredients:
Bucatini pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Eggs: 1
Egg yolks: 4
Smoked pancetta: 5.3oz(150 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1cup(100 g)- to be grated
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 ml)
Fine salt: - to taste
Black pepper: - to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
One of the greatest classics of Italian cuisine is carbonara pasta , a main dish characteristic of Lazio cuisine, made with popular, very tasty, and flavorful ingredients. Carbonara is very appreciated and widespread worldwide, so much so that there are several variants that, compared to the original recipe, may include the use of bacon or different types of pasta beyond the traditional spaghetti. In this recipe, we present a delicious version that will make your dish even more interesting and appetizing. After the traditional cooking, the pasta is baked in the oven for a few minutes: the final grilling will make the bacon and pecorino even more crunchy, thus creating a very inviting seasoning. It's truly impossible to resist a good plate of baked carbonara: its bold flavor wins at the first taste!
Don't miss out on these variations as well:
Discover more delicious Carbonara recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare baked carbonara, place a pot with plenty of water on the stove for the pasta. Meanwhile, put the diced smoked bacon in a non-stick pan, without adding oil . Stir the bacon well with a spatula , browning it over medium heat until the fat becomes transparent and slightly crispy ; then remove from the heat and let it cool slightly.
In a bowl, pour the egg yolks and the whole egg , beat them, then add the grated pecorino, keeping some aside ; salt and pepper .
Add the cream and continue mixing with the whisk for a few minutes to blend all the ingredients well ; finally add the bacon , keeping one or two tablespoons aside (this will be added and gratinated at the end along with the leftover pecorino). When the pasta water has reached a boil, salt moderately , as the pasta will already have a very flavorful seasoning from the bacon and pecorino.
Cook the bucatini for about 10 minutes (they should be al dente) , stirring occasionally . When the pasta is al dente, drain it well and pour it into the bowl with the egg mixture, using a pasta strainer or a fork .
Mix the pasta well with two forks , then brush a baking dish with oil and distribute the bucatini evenly .
Finally, sprinkle the entire surface of the pasta with the bacon and grated pecorino you set aside . Place in the oven and grill at 520°F for 5-7 minutes. After the required time, turn off the oven and serve the baked carbonara while it's still hot .
It is recommended to consume baked carbonara immediately. Freezing is not advised.
Guanciale can also be an excellent alternative to smoked bacon! If you are a cheese lover, you can get some excellent Pecorino Romano and also add some good Parmesan... it's up to you!

