name:
Vegetarian Carbonara
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.5oz(320 g)
Yellow peppers: 2.2lbs(1.2 kg)
Tofu: 6.3oz(180 g)
Saffron: 0.03tsp(0.3 g)- (2 packets of 0.15 g each)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Chives: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Tofu: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Have you ever thought about making a vegan version of a classic dish like spaghetti carbonara ? We have, and we offer you a tasty variant made with tofu bites flavored with saffron, which resemble diced guanciale in appearance, and a delicious yellow pepper cream, which replaces the egg mixture that serves as the base for the traditional recipe and its most famous reinterpretations. It will look like a classic carbonara, but upon tasting, it will release a unique flavor that will pleasantly surprise you... what are you waiting for? Try our vegetarian carbonara recipe, it will be a success!
Discover other vegetarian variations of the quintessential Roman dish:
Discover more delicious Carbonara recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the vegetarian carbonara, first wash the peppers and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, upside down , so they cook evenly and become nicely browned. Bake in a preheated static oven at 482°F for about 50 minutes. Meanwhile, slice the tofu first into slices and then into half-inch cubes .
In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil and add a sliced chili pepper ; if you prefer, you can remove the seeds before slicing it to make it less spicy. Then add the tofu and let it brown. Meanwhile, dissolve the saffron in a little hot water .
Add the saffron to the browned tofu and let it season for a few minutes . Then turn off the heat and set aside. When the peppers are well roasted, take them out of the oven .
Without burning yourself, transfer them to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and wait 10 minutes. This will make them easier to peel . Place the peeled, shredded peppers in a blender, then add salt and oil .
Blend everything until you get a smooth cream . Add the obtained cream to the tofu . Meanwhile, cook the spaghetti in salted boiling water .
Drain them al dente and transfer them to the pan . Add a ladle of cooking water if necessary, and chopped chives . Add a generous grind of pepper and mix everything well .
Plate the vegetarian carbonara, add some chopped chives , some tofu flakes , and serve immediately !
We recommend consuming the vegetarian carbonara immediately; alternatively, it can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
Instead of tofu, you can also use seasonal vegetables!

