name:
Fake Carbonara
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.5oz(320 g)
Yellow peppers: 2.2lbs(1.4 kg)
Mortadella: 8.8oz(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
The fake carbonara is a dish that resembles the colors of spaghetti alla carbonara , but uses very different ingredients: the guanciale is replaced by mortadella, while the egg of the traditional carbonara is replaced by a thick and enveloping yellow pepper cream. The preparation is very simple: the peppers are baked in the oven and blended until a smooth cream is obtained, and this is combined with the previously browned cubes of mortadella. The result of the fake carbonara will be surprising not only visually, because the cream will look just like that of the real carbonara, but especially on the palate. The fake carbonara is a tasty first course, like the other variants of the famous Lazio dish, such as the seafood version or the vegetable carbonara suitable for spring and ideal if you want to impress your guests! Discover also the fake saffron carbonara !
Discover more delicious Carbonara recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the fake carbonara, start by taking the yellow peppers and, after washing them thoroughly, place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper . Bake the peppers at 482°F in a static oven for 40-45 minutes (or in a convection oven at 446°F for about 35 minutes) . Once cooked, put the peppers in a bag and let them cool for about ten minutes; this process will make it easier to peel them .
While the peppers are cooling, take the mortadella and cut it into cubes . Once done, brown the cubes of mortadella in a large non-stick pan without adding oil until golden .
Take the peppers and clean them: remove the stalk, skin, and seeds with the help of a knife . Once cleaned, place the peppers in a blender and blend them until a smooth cream is obtained .
Add the pepper cream to the mortadella and cook over medium heat for a few minutes, stirring with a wooden spoon . Season with salt and pepper . In the meantime, cook the spaghetti in plenty of salted boiling water.
When the spaghetti is al dente, drain them, making sure to keep 1-2 ladles of cooking water aside . Toss the spaghetti with the pepper and mortadella sauce directly in the pan, extending with 1-2 ladles of cooking water and cooking over low heat for a couple of minutes to combine everything . Add a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil, and your fake carbonara is ready!
The fake carbonara can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container. We do not recommend freezing it; however, the pepper cream can be made in advance and frozen, or stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
Taste and be amazed! I know at first glance this dish may seem strange, but you will be won over by the sweetness of the peppers in contrast with the crunchiness of the mortadella cubes. If desired, you can complete the dish by stirring the pasta with grated cheese for a really enveloping effect. Let's not forget that this dish lends itself to various vegetarian versions: just replace the mortadella with cubes of eggplant or zucchini.

