name:
Red velvet roll
ingredients:
Eggs: 7.75oz(220 g)- (about 4)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(35 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2tsp(5 g)
Food coloring: 1tsp- red, powdered
Cream cheese: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.67cup(150 g)
Powdered sugar: ⅓cup(50 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Fresh liquid cream: 2tbsp(30 g)
Red currants: to taste
Dark chocolate: to taste- in curls

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 12 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time in the refrigerator (30 minutes)

instructions:
Are you looking for a dessert to prepare for Christmas lunch or the New Year's Eve dinner? The red velvet roll, with its colors, is perfect for both occasions. Additionally, thanks to its fresh and delicate taste, we are sure everyone will love it! The red velvet roll is inspired by one of the most famous American cakes worldwide, dressed up for a special day like this. The colors remain unchanged; in fact, the red of the Biscuit dough stands out in the middle of a white mascarpone-based cream, reminiscent of snow. We hope you have a pleasant holiday season and that this variant of the typical log makes it truly sweet and special!
To prepare the red velvet roll, start with the sponge cake. Pour the sugar and eggs into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment . Turn on the machine and add the powdered coloring ; keep mixing until you have a fluffy and frothy mixture .
Sift the flour and cocoa inside; then mix with a spatula from bottom to top so as not to deflate the mixture .
Pour the mixture into a 14.5x12.5-inch baking tray lined with parchment paper and using an offset spatula , spread it over the entire surface .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 10-12 minutes. Once cooked, take it out of the oven and let it cool . Meanwhile, prepare the cream: place the cream cheese and cream in a bowl , add the powdered sugar
and the seeds of the vanilla bean . Mix everything with an electric whisk until you obtain a fluffy cream . Cover with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator.
When the sponge cake is completely cool, flip it onto a surface where you have placed a sheet of parchment paper. Remove the parchment paper attached to the base of the sponge cake by pulling it away very gently . Trim the edges with a knife and place the cream in the center, setting aside about a third .
Spread it over the entire surface of the sponge cake , then roll the sponge cake onto itself without too tightly (20-21).
Wrap the roll with the parchment paper underneath and transfer it to a tray , then place it in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. After this time, take the roll out and trim the edges by slightly cutting the ends .
At this point, take the remaining cream, add the cream for decoration , and mix to soften it . Distribute the obtained cream over the roll
spreading it on the top and sides . Garnish with red currants, chocolate curls, and rosemary sprigs . Place the red velvet roll in the refrigerator until ready to serve it !
The red velvet roll can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
The cream can be flavored with liqueur or enriched with chocolate chips!

