name:
Tuscan crostini with liver pâté
ingredients:
Chicken livers: 0.55lb(250 g)
Anchovies: 5
Capers: 2tbsp(30 g)
Vin santo wine: 3tbsp(45 g)
Chicken broth: ½cup(100 g)
Mustard: 1tsp
Colatura di alici (fishsauce): 1spoonful
Red onions: 1
Butter: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Sage: to taste
Homemade bread: to taste- (about 4 large slices)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Tuscan crostini with liver pâté is a traditional recipe, easy to make at home. The original preparation seems to have originated in France but over time has also spread to Tuscany, becoming one of the most famous and appreciated appetizers for its rich and aromatic flavor. The protagonists of Tuscan crostini are chicken livers, but the aromatic herbs used, such as sage and rosemary, which are more widespread in this area, are also of great importance. But that's not all. In the traditional version, two ingredients are not present, which we have added not only to give a touch of originality but also flavor: mustard, which will add acidity, and anchovy sauce, which will instead add saltiness and robustness to the dish. If you think the recipe for liver pâté is very long and laborious, you can breathe a sigh of relief; in reality, the execution is really very simple and also quite fast. Before you know it, you'll be spreading your liver pâté on the crostini. Are you curious to start? Follow us to the stove!
Are you curious to discover other varieties of pâté to make original appetizers? Take a look at these variations:
To prepare the Tuscan crostini with liver pâté, start by preparing and then keeping the chicken broth warm. Move on to the red onion; after cleaning it, slice it thinly . Place it in a pan with hot oil and let it stew for a couple of minutes . Add some sage leaves and rosemary sprigs .
Let it flavor for a few minutes, stirring to prevent burning . At this point, add the livers and seal well .
Remove the herbs and deglaze with vinsanto . When the alcohol has evaporated, moisten with hot chicken broth and cook for about ten minutes.
After the time has elapsed, turn off the heat and while the base is still very hot, add the anchovies and previously desalted capers .
Add the butter , mustard , and anchovy sauce. Stir immediately and well so that the butter and anchovies melt and the rest is combined .
Ensure it is seasoned correctly and add a bit more chopped sage . Transfer the livers to the cutting board and chop them with a knife until you get an almost rustic puree . Spread the liver pâté on toasted bread, with a drizzle of oil, and enjoy .
The liver pâté can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days, well covered with oil.
The addition of mustard and anchovy sauce is an "extra" compared to tradition; you can omit them if you don't prefer them.
When they are cooked, taste the livers before chopping them with a knife: if they are too salty, add a bit of hot broth or water; otherwise, if they are too bland, just add a pinch of salt.

