name:
Spaghetti with sea truffles
ingredients:
Spaghetti Rigati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Sea Truffles: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
White wine: 1.75oz(50 g)
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Mussels, clams, and cockles are the most classic among seafood, but there is a variety that might be less known to many, which we guarantee is truly a delicacy: sea truffles. A very strong flavor and the aroma of the sea will delight your palate with every forkful while you are intoxicated by the marine fragrance. Spaghetti with sea truffles are truly a delight for the palate that you won't be able to resist; the meaty and flavorful truffle flesh will enchant you! A fish menu or a special first course, just like the one to serve at the Christmas Eve dinner or on Christmas Day after an enticing fish appetizer or salmon, requires dishes that meet the guests' expectations, and that's why we thought of suggesting spaghetti with sea truffles!
To prepare the spaghetti with sea truffles, start by soaking them in abundant salted water for at least an hour. Then place them in a container with a colander inside and cover with cold water . Add plenty of coarse salt to recreate seawater and let them rest . If after this process you notice any open shells, because the sea truffle is dead, discard them as they could compromise the taste of your sauce.
Peel the garlic, cut it in half, and then remove the core , or the central part, making the fragrance released much more delicate. Then let it flavor in a pan for a few minutes along with some extra virgin olive oil; once well browned, remove the garlic . Drain the sea truffles and pour them into the pan while the oil is still hot ,
drizzle with white wine and cover with a lid , letting them cook until completely opened .
Shell the truffles, keeping the mollusks aside . Then strain the sauce by pouring it through a very fine sieve, or using sterile gauze, this way you're sure to eliminate any sand residues . Wash, dry, and finely chop the parsley with a knife and set aside.
Pour the seasoning into a large pan and turn on the flame only when the pasta is cooked, ready to be tossed . In abundant boiling salted water, cook the ridged spaghetti and drain them when al dente
pouring them directly into the sea truffle sauce . This way, not only will they absorb flavor, but they will also release some starch, making the sauce thicker. Add the sea truffles and the chopped parsley .
Then add a drizzle of raw extra virgin olive oil , black pepper, and a pinch of salt to taste, and mix well . At this point, your spaghetti with sea truffles are ready, enjoy your meal !
It is recommended to consume the spaghetti with sea truffles immediately; you can store them cooked, keeping them in a container well covered with plastic wrap.
Freezing is not recommended.
The sea truffles can be stored for up to one day in the refrigerator, wrapped in a damp cloth.
Are you a fan of pepper or chili pepper? Because the latter is a valid alternative! If you like to add a touch of color and extra flavor, add some cherry tomatoes or a few tablespoons of tomato puree.

