name:
Pandoro with sourdough
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.7cups(217 g)- (W 370-390)
Egg yolks: ½cup(135 g)- (about 8 medium) cold
Sourdough starter: 3.9oz(110 g)- refreshed 3 times, each 3 hours apart
Butter: 1cup(110 g)- cold
Sugar: ½cup(94 g)
Water: 0.4cup(88 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.1cups(136 g)- (W 370-390)
Butter: 6 ½tbsp(92 g)- softened
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Acacia honey: 1tbsp(30 g)
Egg yolks: 1oz(28 g)- (approximately 2 medium)
Orange paste: 1tbsp(15 g)
Cocoa butter: 1tbsp(15 g)- melted
Fine salt: 1.1tsp(6 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Butter: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste
Powdered sugar: ½cup(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the dough rising time

instructions:
The pandoro , along with the panettone , is one of the traditional desserts that absolutely cannot be missing from your Christmas recipes. If you have already tried your hand at making homemade panettone with sourdough, you just need to try pandoro with sourdough, perfect for enriching your holiday menu. A naturally leavened dough that will give you an incredibly soft dessert. The use of natural leavening leads to an extension of the resting times so that the dough can rise properly before being baked: to make pandoro, it is therefore necessary to respect the different rising times and add the ingredients in order, little by little. These and other secrets will be revealed by Chef Giovanni Ricciardella from the Cascina Vittoria restaurant in Rognano, who prepared for us his recipe for pandoro with sourdough. The final result will not disappoint you and will reward your efforts: a good pandoro prepared with your own hands is just what you need to impress your guests!
Discover more ideas for the holiday table:

To prepare the pandoro with sourdough, start with the first dough. In the bowl of a stand mixer, pour the water , sugar , and egg yolks .
Add the sourdough starter in pieces , ensuring you take the central part, discarding the drier surface. Attach the paddle and run the machine just long enough to combine the ingredients .
Add the flour and knead at medium speed for 5 minutes. Once you have a smooth dough, switch to the dough hook and continue until the gluten structure has formed; this will take about 15-20 minutes. To check if the dough is ready, take a small piece with greased hands and stretch it to verify its elasticity and strength .
At this point, add the cold butter from the fridge cut into cubes and let it incorporate at the same speed. Once the butter is well absorbed, stop the mixer and grease your work surface with some butter .
Transfer the dough onto the work surface and give it a few folds using a scraper , then form a ball and place it in a tall, narrow, slightly buttered container , large enough to hold 3 times the dough's volume. Also, grease the surface of the dough with butter. Place the container in the oven turned off with a glass of hot water and the light on, and let it rise for at least 14 hours at a temperature of 82°F-86°F. Once tripled in volume (you can mark the starting level with a marker on the container), put it immediately in the fridge until the next morning (about 8 hours). The fridge will not stop the fermentation of the dough, it will only slow it down, so if after 4-6 hours or after 8 hours you see that the dough has quadrupled or is spilling out of the container, it must be worked immediately.
In the meantime, prepare the emulsion for the second dough: in a bowl, pour the softened butter , cocoa butter, acacia honey , and sugar .
Flavor with orange paste and mix with a spatula. Now incorporate the egg yolks and salt .
Lastly, add the vanilla bean seeds . Mix until you have a homogeneous mixture , cover with plastic wrap in contact , and store in the fridge. Let it rest overnight along with the dough.
Retrieve the first dough from fermentation in the fridge , place it again in the stand mixer with the hook and add the flour . Start at minimum speed to re-form the gluten structure; it will take about 30 minutes.
After this time , turn off the machine and check the elasticity by pulling a small piece with greased hands, as previously done . Turn the mixer back on and add the cold emulsion in 3 parts to gradually incorporate it .
When the dough is well incorporated, pour it onto the buttered work surface . Give a few folds and form a loaf . Let the dough rest for 15 minutes on the work surface without covering it; in this way, a thin crust will form that will retain the gases during leavening .
At this point, round the pandoro, always with hands slightly greased with butter : rotate it on the work surface with the palm of your hands, being careful not to lift it. Then take the dough in your hands with the help of a scraper and squeeze it on one side to remove air. Butter and dust with powdered sugar a 2 lbs pandoro mold , then place the dough inside .
Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for 8 hours in the turned-off oven, always with a glass of hot water and the light on. When the dough reaches the edge of the mold , make holes with a toothpick at the star points and a few holes in the center; this operation will allow the release of gases retained during leavening, thus achieving a compact crumb. Bake in a static preheated oven at 300°F for 50-55 minutes, placing the mold on the first rack from the bottom; the pandoro will reach a height of about 9 inches and should have a nice hazelnut color. Remove the pandoro from the oven and let it cool in the mold for 90 minutes, then unmold it .
Once unmolded , sprinkle the pandoro with powdered sugar : you can place the pandoro in a bag and shake it to evenly distribute the sugar. The pandoro with sourdough is ready to be served !
The pandoro with sourdough can be stored at room temperature, closed in a nylon bag and away from humidity, for about 3-4 days.
Cocoa butter gives softness to the dough, plus it has a neutral taste and does not affect the aromas.
It is recommended to start the preparation in the morning.
Located in the heart of the Pavia plain, the Cascina Vittoria restaurant is a place where you can rediscover the flavors of tradition with a gourmet twist, immersed in a rustic farmhouse with ancient origins, a small oasis of peace where the Ricciardella family will welcome you, always committed to offering a unique experience to their guests. Chef Giovanni Ricciardella's artisanal touch is found in the preparation of leavened products, desserts, and fresh pasta, all rigorously made with the genuine ingredients offered by the territory.

