name:
Amberjack tartare with mango sauce
ingredients:
Amberjack fish: 0.9lb(400 g)- fillets already frozen
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.8tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp
Black pepper: 1tsp
Lemon peel: 1
Bread: 2.5oz(70 g)
Mango: 0.875cup(150 g)- pulp
Orange juice: 1
Lemon juice: 1
Brown sugar: 1tsp
Powdered turmeric: 1tsp
Green Peperoncino: ½tsp
Fresh ginger: 1tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
"What should I prepare to surprise them?" How many of you have exclaimed this phrase at least once? Especially for those hosting friends with discerning palates or those wanting to have a chic dinner with sophisticated and elegant dishes. Don't worry, we have the recipe for you! It's a fragrant and flavorful amberjack tartare with mango sauce. A main course or even a rich appetizer that will not only amaze with its appearance but also with its taste. The delicate and fresh flavor of the amberjack is enhanced by the mango sauce, which features a blend of sweet, sour, and spicy notes. A real surprise for your palate, especially if accompanied by a dice of seasonal roasted vegetables and possibly some homemade bread to make your guests feel immediately at ease. Well, are you ready to prepare the amberjack tartare with mango sauce with us? It could be your ace up your sleeve for a Valentine's Day menu to make at home! Try also our Mediterranean amberjack tartare or the marinated tuna tartare with mango and arugula !
To prepare the amberjack tartare with mango sauce, start with the bread. Slice it diagonally into slices about 1/4 inch thick , flatten them with a rolling pin , and arrange them on a baking tray. Round them and secure with a skewer .
Then toast them in the oven for about 5 minutes at 480°F; set aside . Meanwhile, move on to the mango sauce. Peel the mango with a vegetable peeler, choosing one that is not too ripe , and then cut it first into strips and then into cubes about 1/2 inch .
Peel and slice the ginger , then squeeze the lime juice and orange juice .
Move to the stove. In a small pot, pour in the citrus juice , then the mango cubes and ginger slices . Season with a pinch of salt, the brown sugar ,
chili powder and turmeric powder . Turn on the burner and let it simmer over low heat for about ten minutes, stirring occasionally; you can add a few drops of water if you notice the liquid part is drying too quickly. At the end of cooking, remove the ginger ,
and blend until you get a smooth puree . Finally, prepare the amberjack fillets. Mince them ,
until you get a very fine mince . Gather in a bowl and season with grated lemon zest , salt, pepper, oil .
Mix and move on to plating. On the bottom of a plate, pour a spoonful of mango sauce , place a 2.75-inch diameter pastry ring in the center, and fill it with the tartare .
Finally, garnish with some chives cut with scissors , grate a bit more lemon zest , and your amberjack tartare with mango sauce is ready, serve with the bread .
Any form of preservation is not recommended.
If you think the spice mix is too much for your amberjack tartare with mango sauce, reduce the quantities or avoid the ginger, which is very spicy. Instead of chili, use sweet paprika for a pleasant spicy note!
Try serving the amberjack tartare as an appetizer or main course of the Valentine's Day menu!
Looking for other amberjack recipes? Try the pasta with amberjack ragù and dried porcini.
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not thoroughly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze for at least 96 hours at -0.4°F in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, as per Ministry of Health guidelines .

