name:
Tortellini Timbale
ingredients:
Butter: 1.3cups(300 g)
Type 00 flour: 4 ¾cups(600 g)
Water: to taste- cold
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Tortellini pasta: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Leeks: 1
Peas: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1 ¾cup(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
The tortellini timbale is a first course with a very scenic and sumptuous appearance, excellent to present on the tables during the holidays; although it may seem elaborate and lengthy, the tortellini timbale is actually very simple and quick to prepare, just equip yourself with desire and patience which will guarantee sure success! The tortellini timbale can easily be prepared a day in advance and then reheated shortly before serving it at the table.
For the tortellini timbale, first of all, it is important to prepare the shortcrust pastry and let it rest in the fridge for at least 30 minutes, wrapped in plastic wrap . In the meantime, also prepare the bechamel sauce with the doses indicated in the ingredients box. Try to keep the bechamel rather soft (2-3). Let the bechamel cool, covering it with plastic wrap so that a surface layer does not form.
Thinly slice the leek and stew it in a large non-stick pan with oil ; let it cook gently for about 10-15 minutes, then add the peas and cook them until they are very tender, about 15 minutes; if necessary, add either hot vegetable broth or hot water during cooking.
Bring plenty of salted water to a boil and pour in the tortellini (you can also make them yourself by following the recipe on the site: tortellini ) , cook for the time indicated on the package, usually 1 or 2 minutes. Drain them very well, being careful not to break them, and add them to the pan with the peas and leek . Place the cooked ham on a cutting board
and roll it up on itself and then finely chop it using a knife. Add the ham to the pan and sauté everything for a few moments, turn off the heat, and season with salt and white pepper to taste .
Butter a round springform pan of 7 inches x 4 inches ; roll out the shortcrust pastry into a sheet about 1/5 inch thick and cut out a rectangular strip about 4 inches high that will serve as the side of the mold, a disc of 7 inches that will serve as the bottom base, and another disc of 7.5 inches that will serve as the upper base of the tortellini timbale. Line the round springform pan with the rectangular strip that you have buttered with a brush, make the shortcrust pastry adhere well to the mold, cover the bottom with one of the two discs
Leave the bottom disc in an adjustable springform pan (this ensures that it does not expand during baking but maintains its shape), brush it with an egg, and from the remaining shortcrust pastry, cut out shapes with cookie cutters and place them on the disc which will serve as the top "lid".
Sprinkle the bottom of the mold with a tablespoon of grated Parmesan cheese , now cover with a scant ladle of bechamel and then a ladle of tortellini ;
continue alternating Parmesan cheese, bechamel, and tortellini until the ingredients are used up , setting aside a ladle of bechamel to pour over all the tortellini; bake in a hot oven at 355°F for at least 40-45 minutes and also bake the other decorated shortcrust pastry disc on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Remove the lid-disc from the oven and the tortellini timbale , let it cool and then open the springform pan very carefully so as not to break your tortellini timbale. Place on a serving platter and decorate with the lid-disc. Now your tortellini timbale is ready to make your holiday table unique!

