name:
Hazelnut Bundt Cake
ingredients:
Nut flour: 1cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(100 g)
Potato starch: ½cup(65 g)
Egg whites: 6.3oz(180 g)- (about 4 small eggs)
Egg yolks: 8tbsp(120 g)- (approximately 8 from small eggs)
Sugar: 0.9cup(175 g)
Butter: (95 g)
Lemon peel: 1- (to grate)
Brandy: 1.2oz(35 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1 ¼tsp(3 g)
Fine salt: ½tsp(3 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: to taste
Whole peeled hazelnuts: to taste
Gianduia chocolate: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the hazelnut bundt cake, first butter an 8-inch Bundt pan , then sprinkle the chopped hazelnuts to cover both the base and the sides .
Set the pan aside and prepare the batter: first, separate the egg whites from the yolks. Put the softened butter and 1/4 cup of sugar in a bowl , add the salt and the grated lemon zest . Use an electric mixer to cream the ingredients.
At this point, add the yolks and the brandy , continuing to mix with the beaters until smooth and homogeneous .
Set the yolk mixture aside and pour the egg whites into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment . Start beating, then add 1/2 cup of sugar while the whisk is still running . You should achieve a fairly creamy consistency .
Fold the beaten egg whites into the yolk mixture , gently mixing with a rubber spatula . Start by adding one-third of the whipped egg whites, then fold in the rest. Add the all-purpose flour and cornstarch and mix again.
Finally, blend in the hazelnut flour and cinnamon . Pour the batter into the buttered and hazelnut-covered Bundt pan , then gently tap it on the countertop.
Bake in a preheated static oven at 338°F for about 40 minutes . Check the cooking with a toothpick, then remove from the oven and let cool completely in the pan before inverting the bundt cake onto a serving platter .
Garnish the bundt cake with some melted gianduia chocolate and finish with whole toasted hazelnuts . Your hazelnut bundt cake is ready to be enjoyed !
The hazelnut bundt cake can be stored at room temperature for 2 days, covered with a cake dome.
Before starting the recipe, prepare the pan: this way you can bake the batter as soon as it's ready without the risk of deflating!
If you prefer, you can replace the brandy with vanilla syrup.

