name:
Winter Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 5.3oz(150 g)- (about 3)
Type 00 flour: 3cups(350 g)
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(120 g)
Vegetable oil: ½cup(110 g)
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp
Powdered ginger: ½tsp
Powdered turmeric: ½tsp
Apples: ½
Pears: ½
Raisins: 3tbsp(30 g)
Walnut kernels: ¼cup(30 g)
Hazelnuts: 3tbsp(30 g)
Almonds: 1.1oz(30 g)
Honey: 1tbsp(20 g)
Baking powder: 1bag
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low

instructions:
The winter cake is a dessert that embodies typical winter flavors: apple, pear, spices often used to combat the winter cold, and dried fruits that are a staple on festive tables during the coldest period. And yet, honey and raisins... a skillful mix of flavors for a cake that's very easy to prepare and doesn't even require the use of electric whisks. Soft and delicious, the winter cake will be perfect for breakfast or to enjoy with a steaming cup of tea... a sweet treat for a moment of relaxation!
If you love desserts with dried fruits, don't miss our soft walnut cake .
To prepare the winter cake, first place walnuts, almonds, and hazelnuts into a mixer bowl . Blend everything coarsely , without achieving a very fine consistency. Place the raisins in a small bowl and add warm water until covered . Let them soak and in the meantime prepare the batter.
In a bowl, combine eggs and sugar ; whisk them by hand until you get a frothy consistency. Then add the vegetable oil .
and the milk . Mix again before incorporating the flour .
Mix everything until you get a homogeneous batter . Add the baking powder and the spices (turmeric, cinnamon, and ginger) . Mix again.
Peel the apple and cut it into small pieces . Do the same with the pear and transfer both into the batter .
Add 1 oz of chopped nuts . Drain and lightly squeeze the raisins, take 1/3 of them and add to the batter . Mix everything once more.
Transfer into a 12x8 inch rectangular baking pan, lined with parchment paper, and level the surface with a spatula. Sprinkle the cake with another 1 oz of nuts and half of the remaining raisins . Drizzle honey on top, trying to spread it evenly .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 35 minutes, then cover the cake with a sheet of aluminum foil for another 10 minutes. Take the winter cake out of the oven and let it cool completely. Only when it is completely cool, sprinkle with powdered sugar and garnish with the remaining chopped nuts and raisins .
You can store the winter cake under a glass dome for 3-4 days at room temperature.
What to do with leftover apple and pear? Slice them and add them on the surface of the cake!

