name:
Tiramisu cheesecake with ladyfingers
ingredients:
Ladyfingers: 6.7oz(190 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Coffee: 10tbsp(50 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 2.1cups(500 g)
Cream cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: 0.65cup(130 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 3.5oz(100 g)- (about 6)
Water: 3tbsp(45 g)- cold
Gelatin in sheets: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Ladyfingers: 4.25oz(120 g)
Coffee: 1 ½cup(120 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + the cooling time for the base (30 min) and the cheesecake (at least 3 h)

instructions:
With our Tiramisu cheesecake with ladyfingers, we have taken the best of the cheesecake , the world's most versatile creamy cheese cake, and the tiramisu , the classic and beloved Italian dessert... and created an even more unique and delicious sweet treat! The delicate mascarpone cream and coffee-soaked ladyfingers of the legendary spoon dessert meet the rich, fresh, and firm texture of cheesecake, for a burst of goodness sure to delight the whole family. And for more special occasions? With our cocoa checkerboard decoration, the Tiramisu cheesecake dresses up for the party and is ready to grace even the most refined tables... just like the soft Tiramisu tart , equally original and spectacular! The teaspoons are trembling, aren't you starting to feel a certain craving too? Enough talking, it's almost snack time: let's prepare the irresistible Tiramisu cheesecake with ladyfingers together!
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the Tiramisu cheesecake, start with the base. Prepare the coffee (espresso or moka): you will need a total of 170 g (let it cool afterward), then melt the butter in a saucepan, being careful not to burn it, then let it cool. In the meantime, place the ladyfingers in a mixer and blend until they turn into a powder . Transfer them to a bowl and add the cooled melted butter .
Also add 50 g of coffee , then mix thoroughly. Butter and line an 8.5-inch springform pan with parchment paper and pour the ladyfinger mixture into it . Distribute it evenly on the bottom, pressing well with the back of a spoon to compact it . Finally, to set it, transfer the pan to the fridge for at least half an hour.
In the meantime, focus on the cream. First, soak the gelatin in cold water . In the meantime, put 65 g of sugar and 45 g of water in a heavy-bottomed saucepan . Bring the syrup to a boil .
Check the temperature with a food thermometer ; when it reaches 239°F, add the yolks and the rest of the sugar to the stand mixer and start whipping . When the syrup reaches 248°F, remove it from the heat and start pouring it into the stand mixer , little by little, in 3 batches, turning off the beaters each time to scoop the syrup from the sides of the bowl.
Continue whipping until the mixture is completely cool . Then, in a saucepan, heat the cream (no need to boil it) and add the gelatin that you had soaked, after squeezing it well .
Mix thoroughly to dissolve the gelatin uniformly and let it cool. In a bowl, combine the fresh cream cheese and mascarpone , then mix them .
Add the cheeses, one tablespoon at a time, to the stand mixer while it's running . Finally, also add the cream in which you dissolved the now-cooled gelatin . Let the beaters mix just long enough to combine all the ingredients of the cream, then turn them off. Retrieve the firmed base from the fridge and pour a first layer of cream over it .
Level the surface with a spatula . Quickly dip the ladyfingers in the remaining 120 g of coffee and cut them in half .
Arrange the half-ladyfingers in concentric circles within the cake pan , then cover with the second and last layer of cream and level it too. Place your Tiramisu cheesecake in the fridge to set for at least 3-4 hours .
After the setting time, gently remove the ring of the pan and the paper on the edges . At this point, you can simply dust the surface of the cake with sifted cocoa powder, or, to create a checkerboard like ours, proceed as follows: draw a circle the same diameter as the pan on a sheet of parchment paper; use a ruler to draw horizontal and vertical lines to form squares, and finally, using a knife or cutter, cut out half of the squares alternately to create a checkerboard. Have someone help hold the parchment paper over the cake and dust with cocoa powder . Then remove the parchment paper: your Tiramisu cheesecake is ready to be enjoyed !
The Tiramisu cheesecake can be stored in the fridge, covered with plastic wrap, for 3-4 days.
You can freeze it, dividing it into portions if you prefer, in suitable food containers. Then thaw the cheesecake in the fridge when needed.
If you want a simpler decoration, but equally nice to look at, make some strips of parchment paper and arrange them in a diamond pattern on the cake's surface, like making a tart; dust with cocoa, and voilà!

