name:
Shrimps with Lard
ingredients:
Shrimps: 16- whole
Lard: 16slices
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
White onions: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Tomato paste: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Shrimps with lard is an easy and tasty appetizer that offers a delightful combination. After the Shrimp in Crust , here is another appetizer with shrimps with an irresistible taste. The lard gently wraps the shrimps, blending with their delicate flavor and providing a crispy and flavorful texture that makes these bites a true pleasure for the palate. Adding a gourmet touch will be the reduced stock in a sauce with an intense taste in which to dip these delicious shrimps. Try them for your special dinners or during the holidays; the shrimps with lard will be perfect to enrich your Christmas appetizers!
Discover more appetizers and recipes with shrimps:
To prepare the shrimps with lard, clean the carrot and cut it into coarse pieces , do the same with the celery and onion .
Clean the shrimps, remove the head and eliminate the intestine with a toothpick . The shells will be used to make the stock: in a pot, heat a swirl of oil, add the vegetables and the shells .
Season with tomato paste and toast everything for a few moments, then pour in water to cover and cook for 30 minutes .
Once cooked, strain the stock , put it back on the heat , and let it reduce, which will take about 20-30 minutes. Lay the slices of lard on a cutting board, place the shrimp on one end, and roll it in the lard . Repeat for all.
In a non-stick pan, heat a drizzle of oil, season with a sprig of rosemary , and arrange the shrimps . Cook on high heat on both sides until golden, basting the shrimps with the cooking juices as you go .
Set aside the well-browned shrimps . Retrieve the reduced stock, which should have the consistency of a thick sauce . Serve the shrimps with lard with the stock sauce .
Consume the shrimps with lard immediately.
If you have little time, you can make a quicker version, and instead of making the stock sauce, you can dip the shrimps in a spicy mayonnaise or a fresh yogurt sauce.

