name:
Crispy Cheese Potatoes
ingredients:
Potatoes: 3.3lbs(1500 g)
Breadcrumbs: 0.8cup(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus the soaking time for the potatoes (30 minutes)

instructions:
Today we want to intrigue you with a baked side dish that is easy to prepare, crispy, and flavorful. Our crispy cheese potatoes are an alternative to the much-loved Sandy potatoes . Entirely covered with a breading made of Pecorino, Parmigiano Reggiano DOP, and breadcrumbs, once cooked, they will be crispy on the outside and very soft on the inside. A terrific version of baked potatoes that everyone will surely love! This side dish is perfect to accompany many second courses of meat and vegetables, but also fish! All you have to do is try them and choose the pairing that suits you best! Here are other potato-based recipes to try:
To prepare the crispy cheese potatoes, first peel the potatoes , then cut them in half and then into wedges .
Place them in a bowl, cover them with water , and let them rest for 30 minutes. This will remove the starch. Now drain them , transfer them to a tray, and pat them dry with paper towels .
Season them with salt . Now in another bowl, prepare the breading: pour in the breadcrumbs, grated pecorino , and grated parmesan .
Mix well . Remove any paper from the potatoes and add the breading , mix to coat them entirely .
Transfer the potatoes to a baking tray lined with parchment paper. Add a drizzle of oil , mix, and bake in a preheated static oven at 400°F on the middle rack for 40 minutes. When they are well browned, remove them from the oven and serve your potatoes .
Crispy cheese potatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for up to a couple of days. We do not recommend freezing.
Enhance the potatoes with aromatic herbs such as rosemary or thyme. If you prefer, you can also add a teaspoon of paprika.

