name:
Ravioli with capon broth
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Eggs: 7oz(200 g)- (about 4 medium)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste- for dusting
Capon: 4.5lbs(1.5 kg)
Carrots: 0.9cup(100 g)
Celery: 1cup(100 g)
White onions: ½cup(80 g)
Juniper: 5berries
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Ground black pepper: 10
Water: 12.7cups(2.5 l)
Eggs: 7oz(200 g)- about 4 medium
Smoked pancetta: 5.3oz(150 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Parsley: 1 ½tbsp(10 g)
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 3 h 5 min
Makes: 80 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes of dough resting

instructions:
The holidays are approaching, families are getting ready to celebrate Christmas and New Year's Eve around the festive table and… we want to crown your special moments with delicious and unforgettable dishes, just like this one! Ravioli with capon broth is a perfect first course for these occasions: the combination of fresh egg pasta sheets encasing a flavorful capon filling is simply perfect. We decided to plunge them into a wholesome broth made right from the capon meat, which is usually served stuffed … a preparation that pairs perfectly with other forms: some love to present it with tortellini, others with cappelletti or cappellacci, all delightful variations of stuffed pasta, a pride of our culinary tradition. And if you don't know how to use the leftover meat from the broth, no problem: Boiled Meat and Ricotta Balls are a tasty recycling solution you can serve as an appetizer! We recommend seasoning the ravioli with capon broth with a pinch of love and joy that the holidays bring to enjoy an irresistible dish!
If you're looking for less laborious pairings to complete your menus, come and explore our selection of 30-minute recipes for Christmas.
To prepare the ravioli with capon broth, start by making the broth. Take the carrots, peel them, and cut them into chunks; after cleaning the onion, cut it as well as the celery into chunks . Now take a pot with a non-stick bottom and high sides: pour in plenty of water and add the cleaned capon (and possibly singe it if there's too much plumage). The water should completely cover the capon. Add the carrots and onions as well .
Then add the celery , bay leaves , and juniper berries .
Also season with whole peppercorns . Cook over very low heat for about 3 hours: the capon should be tender by the end of cooking. Remember to continue skimming the broth with a skimmer . While the capon cooks, work on the fresh pasta: in a large bowl, pour the flour .
Break the room temperature eggs with a fork and pour them into the bowl : mix the ingredients with your hands , or use a fork if you prefer, until you create a homogeneous dough to shape into a ball . The dough should be sufficiently elastic: if it turns out too hard and difficult to work with, you can add a bit of lukewarm water; if it turns out too sticky, add more flour, but not too much to avoid the opposite effect. Wrap the obtained dough in a sheet of transparent plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature, away from drafts, for at least 30 minutes.
At this point, the capon will be almost cooked: ten minutes before the end of cooking, adjust the salt . Adding salt at the end of cooking will allow you to better gauge the saltiness of the broth. Once you've finished cooking the broth, strain it through a fine mesh strainer and set aside. Take the capon and debone it .
Place the meat in a mixer and blend it . Take the smoked bacon, cut it into strips and then into cubes , which you will put in the mixer and blend .
Put the blended capon and bacon in a large bowl , seasoning with finely chopped parsley . Add the grated cheese .
Also add the eggs to the bowl and season with nutmeg : knead the ingredients with your hands until you get a homogeneous mixture. Set the mixture aside while you prepare the dough for the ravioli.
Take the dough you set aside to rest and divide it into two. Lightly dust one piece (you can keep the other covered with plastic wrap to prevent it from drying out) with semolina flour and roll it out with a rolling pin or using a pasta machine : pass it through the rollers from the widest setting to the penultimate thickness of the pasta machine until you obtain rectangles about 1/5 inch thick. The width of the pasta sheet should be about 3 inches. Repeat these operations for the second piece as well. Place the sheets on a lightly floured work surface with semolina flour and place the filling divided into small balls, using a teaspoon . Space them out evenly on the sheet, about 1 inch apart, so you can later fold it over. Now fold the pasta sheet lengthwise to completely cover the filling and align the long edges .
With your fingers, apply pressure between the little heaps of filling to let the air out and adhere the pasta . At this point, cut out the tortelli with a fluted pastry cutter : they should measure 1.5x1.5 inches. As you make them, place them on a tray with a clean kitchen towel lightly floured with semolina flour : you will get about 80 ravioli.
Pour the filtered broth into a pot with high sides and heat it. When it is boiling, add the ravioli , a few at a time to cook them: about 3 minutes will be enough . When they are cooked, plate your ravioli with capon broth in individual dishes and enjoy them steaming hot !
Ravioli with capon broth should be consumed as soon as they are ready. We do not recommend storing the prepared dish in the refrigerator. However, if desired, you can only store the broth in the refrigerator, sealed in an airtight container.
If you have prepared the ravioli only with fresh ingredients and not defrosted ones, you can freeze them raw. It is also possible to freeze the broth, preferably already portioned for your convenience when you need to defrost it.
Given the long cooking times of the capon broth, you can opt to prepare the broth the day before and store it in the refrigerator to complete the entire preparation the next day. Does the bacon seem too rich? You might decide to use ham instead.

