name:
Panettone Pudding
ingredients:
Panettone: 7.1oz(200 g)
Egg yolks: 2 ½tbsp(36 g)- (about 2)
Whole milk: 1.3cups(300 g)
Sugar: ½cup(90 g)
White Rum: 1.75oz(50 g)
Butter: to taste- for the mold
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(25 g)
Currants: 1sprig
Dark chocolate: to taste- in flakes

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
How many desserts are there in the Italian Christmas tradition! So many! But how many variations can be made without making a significant, almost institutional dessert, like panettone , trivial? We thought about it a lot, and finally, we found the answer when we baked a soft and inviting panettone pudding. The decoration with cream, chocolate, and currants exactly recalls the magical colors of Christmas with an extra touch of sophistication to make this panettone pudding even more special. Tradition always wins, we know, but this year among the good resolutions we also put the willingness to embrace novelties in the kitchen, especially when it comes to desserts!
Are you looking for new ways to serve panettone? Try the recipe for stuffed panettone with cream and mascarpone !
Discover more delicious Panettone recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the panettone pudding, start by cutting the panettone into cubes of about an inch , then sprinkle them with white rum ,
stir with a spoon and cover with plastic wrap, letting it rest for 15 minutes, the pieces will soak up nicely without drying out in the air . In the meantime, proceed to prepare the custard : pour the milk into a saucepan, turn on the heat to medium, and let it come close to boiling, then turn it off and let it cool for a few minutes .
In a bowl, combine the sugar with the egg yolks and beat for a few moments with a whisk until you get a homogeneous mixture , then pour in the now lukewarm milk to dilute (if you prefer, use a ladle to avoid dirtying the work surface) .
Whisk gently and pour the diluted mixture back into the cooking pan . At this point, you must be careful with the cooking, so turn on the burner to low heat and stir continuously for 3-4 minutes at most .
To be sure of the cooking, use a kitchen thermometer; once 185°F is reached, the custard is ready, going beyond that temperature risks the eggs and milk separating, thus compromising the result . You can also do the spoon test: that is, make sure the custard coats the spoon. To do this, just run your finger across the back of the spoon , the parts should remain separate, so the top won't drip to the bottom .
After allowing the custard to cool for a few minutes, pour it over the panettone cubes and mix with a spatula to obtain a homogeneous mixture .
Butter a pudding mold with a capacity of 2 cups and pour the cream with the panettone, if you prefer using a ladle . Finally, you can bake your panettone pudding in a preheated static oven at 320°F for 50 minutes.
When the dessert is ready, take it out of the oven and let it cool completely at room temperature before removing it from the mold and placing it on a serving plate . At this point, all that's left is to focus on the decoration .
Then whip the cream, adding powdered sugar while beating with electric beaters , when it's fluffy, put it in a piping bag and decorate starting from the center and then move to the sides, making dollops around the base . Create shavings by dragging a smooth blade over the chocolate bar, slightly tilting the knife to scrape the surface .
Scatter the shavings using a spoon to avoid melting them with your hands and sprinkle over all the cream dollops. Finally, place a sprig of currants to add a touch of color and your beautiful panettone pudding is ready to be served .
You can store the panettone pudding in the refrigerator covered with a glass dome. You can prepare the pudding many hours in advance without any problems. Baking in a fan oven and freezing is not recommended.
Customize your panettone pudding with fresh or dried fruit to your liking. If the cream isn't indulgent enough, why not embellish the pudding with custard or chocolate ganache? You can finally enrich the custard with grated orange zest or ground cinnamon... but in reality, they'll work well together too!
Speaking of leftover panettone: there is a Milanese custom where families, after Christmas holidays, keep a panettone to eat on Saint Blaise's Day (February 3), the throat protector. According to tradition, the panettone must be eaten on the same morning, on an empty stomach, to act as a beneficial balm for the throat and thus protect it.

