name:
Panettone Canapés with Robiola and Culatello
ingredients:
Panettone: 2.8oz(80 g)
Culatello ham: 2.75oz(80 g)
Robiola cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Thyme: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Black pepper: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 3 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Every year it always ends up the same way... when it's time for dessert, we're already so full and the panettone often gets left over! However, we can invent many ways to reuse it, from the more classic sweet preparations like the very easy truffles to savory recipes, like the one we propose today: panettone canapés with robiola and culatello. A tantalizing, original, and very simple idea to prepare that will allow you not only to recycle leftovers from the feast but also to offer a tempting Christmas appetizer to friends who come to visit during the festive days! And if after making the canapés you still have some slices of panettone left, you can use them to create imaginative bruschetta or a tasty sandwich !
Discover more delicious Panettone recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the panettone canapés with robiola and culatello, first cut the leftover panettone into 6 rectangles of about 3.5x2 inches and toast them in a pan for 2 minutes on one side and 1 minute on the other side .
Set the panettone slices aside and focus on the cream: put the robiola in a bowl and add the thyme leaves , olive oil , and pepper .
Also, grate the lemon zest and mix with a spatula to soften the mixture , then transfer it into a piping bag. Now take the panettone slices and lay the slices of culatello on top .
Squeeze a few dollops of robiola cream and garnish with some thyme leaves and grated lemon zest as desired : your canapés with robiola and culatello are ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the panettone canapés with robiola and culatello immediately.
You can customize the panettone canapés with any meats and cheeses you like.

