name:
Panettone
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sourdough starter: 2.3oz(65 g)- (refreshed three times throughout the day)
Water: ½cup(125 g)- (room temperature)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)- soft
Sugar: 5tbsp(65 g)
Malt: 0.1oz(2 g)
Egg yolks: 3tbsp(50 g)
Manitoba flour: ½cup(62 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)- soft
Raisins: 1cup(150 g)- sultana
Fine salt: 0.3tsp(2 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Acacia honey: 1tbsp(16 g)
Candied citron: 2tbsp(30 g)
Candied orange: 2.5oz(70 g)
Orange paste: 5tbsp(75 g)
Mandarin orange paste: 2tbsp(30 g)
Lemon paste: ½tbsp(20 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Mandarin oranges: 8.8oz(250 g)- (or oranges or lemons)
Sugar: 0.6cup(125 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note plus the time to refresh the sourdough; 22 hours of leavening; 1 night of cooling

instructions:
The king of all holidays is certainly the panettone. Along with the pandoro , it is the quintessential dessert for the Christmas lunch, and although it originates from Lombardy, on this Holy day it is present on all Italian tables. Making it at home is a small challenge that many people choose to undertake, along with other seasonal recipes like soft nougat ! Today we will help you tackle it with the right approach, thanks to one of the best recipes from master pastry chef Alfonso Pepe. Contrary to what it may seem, it is not such an arduous task... you just need to be patient and take the necessary time for the preparation because panettone requires quite long rising times. In the version we present to you, the panettone has been prepared using natural yeast, which will allow you to obtain a soft texture that keeps well and a richer aroma! Set the holiday table with Christmas sweets, but for a perfect Christmas, panettone cannot be missing... serve it with a delicious mascarpone cream !
Also, discover these variants of panettone:
Discover more delicious Panettone recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the panettone, start by making the first dough. Pour the malt , 65 g of granulated sugar , and 125 g of room temperature water into a bowl.
Stir with a whisk until the sugar dissolves ; then pour the syrup into a stand mixer fitted with a flat beater . Then add the 250 g of Manitoba flour all at once and start mixing.
It will take about 5 minutes, and as soon as the dough has gained consistency , add 65 g of refreshed sourdough starter, refreshed 3 times throughout the day , and continue mixing at a moderate speed. Meanwhile, prepare a butter and egg yolk emulsion. Transfer 70 g of soft butter into a small bowl and work it with a hand whisk until a creamy consistency is reached. Add about half of the yolks and mix.
Then add the remaining yolks and mix again until you get a homogeneous emulsion . At this point, add half of it to the mixer in operation .
To facilitate absorption, use a spatula to detach the dough that remains stuck to the beater, and turn the mixer back on at medium speed. When the dough is dry and the butter has been completely absorbed, add the remaining butter and yolk emulsion . Work it again until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough , then transfer it to a work surface, using a dough cutter .
Shape the dough into a sphere , transfer it into a glass bowl, cover with food wrap , and let it rise for about 12 hours at a temperature of about 79°F until the dough has tripled in volume . Meanwhile, if you prefer to make the mandarin, orange, or lemon paste at home, see the box at the bottom.
For the second dough of the panettone, use a dough cutter to detach the first dough (risen) from the glass bowl and transfer it into the mixer, still fitted with a flat beater. Add 65 g of Manitoba flour and start the machine at a moderate speed until it is completely absorbed. Then add the aromatic masses, namely the orange paste, the mandarin paste, and the lemon paste ; then add the honey .
and the seeds of the vanilla bean . Turn the mixer back on until the aromas are fully absorbed . Meanwhile, prepare the emulsion again with 40 g of butter and 50 g of yolks, adding them in two parts as done previously .
As soon as your dough is elastic, stop the machine and add 50 g of sugar . Reactivate the machine for a few minutes and add a pinch of salt . Let it absorb and turn off the mixer again. Add the butter emulsion, still in two parts .
and finish working the dough until it is well tied . Meanwhile, soak the raisins and cut both the candied citron and the candied orange into cubes .
At this point, drain the raisins well and pour them into a bowl, also add orange and citron, and mix . To be sure that the dough is ready, turn off the machine, take a portion of it, and if widening it with your hands it is thin but does not break easily, it means it has reached the right elasticity ; if not, work the dough a few more minutes, otherwise, add the mixture of candied fruit and raisins into the mixer and activate it again at a moderate speed.
When the mixture of candied fruit and raisins is well incorporated, turn off the machine, detach the beater, and let the dough rest for about 20 minutes inside the mixer bowl , covering it with a cloth. Then transfer it to a surface, give it some folds , and let it rest for another 30 minutes at room temperature ; there is no need to cover it. Do not worry if the dough seems a bit sticky, use a dough cutter to help work it.
After 30 minutes, take 1050 g of dough, round it gently to give it a spherical shape, and transfer it to a 1 kg paper mold (the exact dimensions are 8.66 inches in diameter and 3.15 inches in height) . Use the remaining dough (about 150 g) to prepare two small panettones using muffin molds . Preheat the oven to 95°F, then turn it off, cover the panettone with a glass dome , and let the panettone and the small panettones rise in the oven for 6-8 hours.
Once risen, leave it uncovered at room temperature for about 30 minutes; this will create a thin skin on the surface. With a scalpel, make a cross incision and place a knob of butter at the center of the cross . Bake at 347°F in static mode for 50 minutes; after 20-25 minutes, remove the small panettones and continue baking the panettone for the remaining time. Then remove it from the oven.
and pierce it with 2 steel skewers on the two outer edges . Let it cool upside down overnight, using two pots or two bowls of the same height to secure it . The next morning, turn it over, remove the skewers, and your panettone will be ready to enjoy !
If you want, you can make the citrus paste at home. To make the mandarin paste, first wash them and remove the ends; then, without peeling them, cut them in half and then into slices that you will need to halve again .
Transfer them to a pot and add the sugar , stir , and let them mature for about 15-20 minutes until the sugar has dissolved .
At this point, place on the stove and cook on low heat for 35-40 minutes . Once cooked, let cool slightly and blend everything with an immersion blender until you get your mandarin paste .
Before using the sourdough starter, refresh it 3 times throughout the same day at intervals of about 2 hours, until it has doubled in volume. For the refreshments, use Manitoba flour.
To prepare the citrus paste (optional) you can use the same technique we used to prepare the mandarin paste. The quantities will remain unchanged.
Once the panettone is cold, close it in a food bag for 2 days; this way, it will release all its aromas.
Looking for an original idea to serve the panettone? Try the recipe for stuffed panettone , for example, with cream and mascarpone !
The panettone, thanks to the sourdough, once cooked, can be kept well sealed in a plastic bag for 1 week. Alternatively, it can be frozen once cooked.

