name:
Risotto with Asparagus Cream and Yolk Crumbs
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 0.9cup(180 g)
Shallot: 1
White wine: ½glass
Asparagus: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Edible flowers: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Butter: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 2
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the risotto with asparagus cream and yolk crumbs, clean the asparagus: remove the harder base and peel the stalk , blanch the asparagus for 5 minutes , then drain and place them in ice water to maintain a bright color and stop the cooking process .
Separate the tips and set them aside, cut the rest into pieces then place in a tall glass with a drizzle of oil and a scant ladle of cooking water .
Blend with an immersion mixer until a smooth cream is obtained . Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the asparagus tips , season with pepper and salt and sauté in the pan until golden , they should be al dente.
Beat the yolks with salt in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap and cook them for one minute at maximum power in the microwave, the consistency should be spongy . Clean and chop the shallot .
Sweat the chopped shallot with a knob of butter in a saucepan, add the rice , salt, and toast, deglaze with white wine , let it evaporate, and continue cooking with the vegetable broth .
Melt the Parmigiano Reggiano DOP with the milk in a double boiler (even over the broth) and stir to obtain a smooth sauce . When there are 2-3 minutes left before the risotto is done, add the asparagus cream.
Stir and cream with Parmigiano Reggiano DOP and butter . Cover with a lid and let it rest for a few seconds, then toss it until creamy.
Serve the risotto on a flat plate, garnish with the Parmigiano Reggiano DOP fondue , asparagus tips, grated yolk , and edible flowers .
Risotto with asparagus cream and yolk crumbs can be stored in the fridge for one day. Freezing is not recommended.
Use the scraps from cleaning the asparagus to make the vegetable broth.

