name:
Panettone with cherries and chocolate
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sourdough starter: 2.3oz(65 g)- (refreshed 3 times over 24 hours)
Fresh brewer's yeast: ½tsp(2 g)
Water: 0.6cup(145 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 0.3cup(65 g)
Malt: 0.1oz(4 g)
Egg yolks: 3tbsp(45 g)- at room temperature
Manitoba flour: ½cup(65 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)- softened
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.7tsp(2 g)
Black cherried in syrup: 0.67cup(150 g)
Fine salt: 0.3tsp(2 g)
Acacia honey: 3tsp(15 g)
Dark chocolate 55%: 3.5oz(100 g)
Egg yolks: 3.9tbsp(55 g)- at room temperature
Water: 1tbsp(15 g)- at room temperature
Manitoba flour: 2tbsp(15 g)
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Dark chocolate 55%: 5.3oz(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(100 g)
Acacia honey: 1tbsp(20 g)
Granulated sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note plus rising times about (26 hours) and resting times (about 7 hours)

instructions:
The magic of Christmas is concentrated in the weeks leading up to it... buying gifts, decorating the house, and choosing the menu are truly enjoyable moments. But when it's too cold to go outside, take advantage of the cozy warmth at home to prepare a leavened dough, like our cherry and chocolate panettone! Carefully calculate the rising times and respect them, also relying a little on your intuition... don't rush, only this way will you get a panettone with the right consistency. To achieve a more aromatic flavor, we've also added sourdough, so it will stay fragrant for a long time. You can prepare the cherry and chocolate panettone a couple of days in advance, just decorate it with the ganache right before serving! Your effort will be rewarded by all the compliments you'll receive from friends and family visiting during this festive season!
Try these panettone variations:
Discover more delicious Panettone recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the cherry and chocolate panettone, start with the first dough. Pour the bread flour into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a hook . Separately, dissolve the yeast in the indicated amount of water , then pour it into the mixer .
Add the sugar , the malt , and the indicated amount of sourdough .
Begin kneading, when you have a homogeneous mixture, add the egg yolks gradually , until fully absorbed. Work with the hook on medium-low speed until you get a smooth and elastic dough . At this point, using a dough scraper, transfer the dough onto a lightly floured work surface .
Shape it into a ball . Transfer it into a bowl , cover with plastic wrap. Let it rise in the turned-off oven with the light on for about 4-5 hours, adding a small pot of hot water at the bottom. Alternatively, let the dough rise at room temperature (79°F), away from drafts, until it has doubled in volume .
Drain the cherries , you will need 5.3 oz. Flour them with 0.5 oz of flour and mix . Coarsely chop the dark chocolate and set it aside.
Dissolve the yeast in the water , add the honey and mix. Pour the bread flour into the bowl of a stand mixer and add the dissolved yeast with water and honey .
At this point, add the first dough , add the sugar , and start kneading with the hook. When you have a smooth and homogeneous mixture, gradually add the egg yolks . Also, add the salt when the dough has completely absorbed the yolks.
Then gradually add the softened butter . Wait for the first piece of butter to be well absorbed before adding the next. Pour the chopped cherries and the dark chocolate into the mixer. Work for about 5 minutes, then stop the machine and wait 10 minutes.
In the meantime, butter a high panettone mold with a capacity of 1.6 lbs. After the 10 minutes, start the machine again and work the dough for another 10 minutes until it is smooth and adheres to the hook . Transfer the dough onto a greased surface and work it quickly with your hands .
Then shape it into a ball and place it in the panettone mold . Cover with a glass dome (or something else that won't compromise the growth of the panettone). Let it rise for 2 hours at room temperature, then transfer it to the refrigerator and let it mature for 15 hours. After this time, leave the panettone at room temperature for another 4 hours, always well-covered. Then uncover it and wait another two hours, in this way it will dry slightly on the surface.
By this point, the panettone will have risen, forming a thin crust ; using a razor blade, make a cross . Lift the inner flaps and fold them outward. Add butter pieces inside the cuts. Bake in a preheated static oven at 365°F for 60 minutes, placing a baking tray in the top part of the oven to block the direct heat from the oven's coil.
Perform the toothpick test at the end of cooking or measure the internal temperature with a kitchen thermometer: it should be between 198-208°F. As soon as the panettone is cooked, remove it from the oven . Skewer it using two long skewers . Let it cool upside down for at least 5 hours. Use two tall bowls or two pots to keep the panettone elevated. After about 3 hours of resting, make the ganache. Chop the dark chocolate and place it in a bowl. In a saucepan, pour the cream, add the honey , and heat until almost boiling.
Pour the cream over the chocolate in two additions , stirring well with a spatula until the chocolate is completely melted and you have a smooth and shiny mixture . Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 2 hours.
At this point, take the now-cooled panettone, decorate it with the ganache, which will now be cool and thick , sprinkle with sugar granules as desired , and serve it .
Store the uncovered panettone in a plastic bag, or wrapped in plastic wrap, for 3 days. Once covered with ganache, it should be stored in the refrigerator.
Enrich the decoration with hazelnuts, almonds, pistachios, or cocoa nibs (toasted cacao beans chopped into small pieces).

