name:
Stuffed Panettone
ingredients:
Panettone: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Whole milk: 3cups(700 g)
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Egg yolks: 0.6cup(145 g)- (about 8)
Cornstarch: 9tbsp(70 g)
Dark chocolate: 1.8oz(50 g)
Orange peel: 2
Fresh liquid cream: 1.1cups(250 g)
Dark chocolate 55%: 7oz(200 g)
Butter: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)- cold
Peeled almonds: to taste
Oranges: to taste
Myrtle berries: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + the cooling time in the fridge for the creams and the stuffed panettone

instructions:
Christmas brings with it many unmissable traditions, but sometimes it's also nice to add a touch of creativity to the usual customs... this year, for example, we've dressed up the typical Milanese Christmas dessert with the stuffed panettone recipe! The classic panettone is sliced into layers and filled with Orange Cream and chocolate custard , one of the most beloved combinations in pastry making. The rich chocolate glaze that drips down the sides is the perfect crowning touch for this original Christmas cake, so tempting and showy that it will win over even pandoro fans! What about you, which side are you on? Do you prefer traditional sweets or enticing reinterpretations? Let us know, and in the meantime, have a look at these delightful panettone recipes:
Discover more delicious Panettone recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the stuffed panettone, start with the custard: pour the milk into a saucepan, add the grated orange zest , and heat until it almost boils. Meanwhile, place the egg yolks and sugar in another saucepan .
Mix well with a whisk , then add the cornstarch and stir again .
Add the hot milk in 2 parts , then move to the stove and let it thicken over low heat, stirring constantly . When you reach the desired consistency, turn off the heat and pour two-thirds of the cream into one bowl and one-third into another .
Now chop the dark chocolate with a knife and add it to the smaller bowl with the cream . Stir with the whisk until fully melted , then cover both creams with plastic wrap in contact and let them set in the refrigerator. Once cold, take the creams and soften them with the whisk, then transfer them into 2 piping bags without nozzles.
At this point, slice the panettone horizontally into 4 slices of the same thickness . Place the first slice on the serving plate, then spread with the light cream and cover with the second slice of panettone .
Fill with the chocolate cream , then continue by adding the third slice of panettone and another layer of light cream. Finally, cover with the top . Level the cream by passing the knife blade (or a spatula) on the sides .
Now work on the glaze: heat the cream in a saucepan and put the chopped dark chocolate in a bowl. When the cream reaches boiling point, pour it over the chocolate in 3 parts , stirring gently with a spatula to avoid incorporating air . Once the chocolate has melted, add the cubed cold butter, a little at a time .
Stir until the butter is completely melted , then transfer the mixture into a jug and blend with an immersion blender for a couple of minutes . At this point, pour the obtained glaze over the top of the stuffed panettone and let it drip down the sides.
Let the glaze crystallize for a few minutes, then garnish with the orange slices (you can use a toothpick to hold them together) , myrtle , and sliced almonds. Place in the refrigerator for 10 minutes before serving your stuffed panettone !
The stuffed panettone can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, covered with a glass dome.
The creams can be prepared in advance and stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, covered with plastic wrap in contact.
To make the stuffed panettone even more delicious, you can add dark chocolate chips to the light custard and orange zest to the chocolate cream.
Did you like this idea? Also try our stuffed pandoro recipe! If you prefer the savory version, just follow the gourmet panettone recipe, customizing it with your favorite fillings.

