name:
Stuffed Panettone with Cream and Mascarpone
ingredients:
Panettone: 1- (from 1 kg)
Mascarpone cheese: 2.1cups(500 g)- cold
Fresh liquid cream: 2.1cups(500 g)- cold
Powdered sugar: 1cup(120 g)
Orange peel: 1- to grate
Dark chocolate: 1.8oz(50 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: 3cups(100 g)
Currants: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average

instructions:
Uncontested king of Christmas sweets, the panettone is one of the essential elements of the holiday table, for Christmas or even to include in the New Year's Eve menu. With this recipe, we offer you an even more inviting way to serve it: stuffed panettone with cream and mascarpone! A sumptuous and scenic dessert made with 3 layers of panettone, enriched with a soft cream scented with orange and dark chocolate shavings. Hazelnut crumbs and red currants also add a crunchy and colorful touch to the decoration of the stuffed panettone . Easy and quick to prepare, stuffed panettone with cream and mascarpone is a delicious and original idea, but above all, within everyone's reach!
Discover other tasty ways to serve panettone:
Discover more delicious Panettone recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the stuffed panettone with cream and mascarpone, first, prepare the cream: pour the mascarpone and powdered sugar into a bowl , add the grated orange zest , and start working with electric beaters. Add the cream while keeping the beaters running .
You should obtain a soft and homogeneous cream . Take the panettone and remove the top cap , then cut it horizontally into 3 slices of the same thickness .
Place the first slice on a serving plate and spread a layer of cream with a spatula , then add chocolate shavings made with a vegetable peeler . Place the second slice of panettone .
Spread another layer of cream and add more chocolate shavings, then cover with the third slice of panettone . At this point, distribute the remaining cream over the entire surface of the panettone .
Decorate the sides with hazelnut crumbs, reaching up to the top edge . Finally, garnish with red currants and some thyme leaves. Your stuffed panettone with cream and mascarpone is ready to be served !
The stuffed panettone with cream and mascarpone can be stored in the refrigerator, covered, for 1-2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can flavor the cream with the seeds of a vanilla bean instead of the orange zest.
The hazelnut crumbs can be replaced with pistachio or almond crumbs.
For decoration, you can use pomegranate seeds or red fruits instead of red currants!
If you prefer, you can omit the chocolate.

