name:
Panettone Sandwich
ingredients:
Panettone: - Milanese 8 slices of 50 g each
Almond slices: to taste
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 2.1oz(60 g)
Butter: to taste- (to grease the pan)
Veal: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Garlic: 1- clove
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1- stalk
Yellow onions: 1
Bay leaves: 1- leaf
Cloves: 3
Ground black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Water: 8 ½cups(1.5 l)
White wine: 1cup(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3- tablespoons
Chicory: 12.3oz(350 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Are you in the mood to try something truly unique? We have the panettone sandwich in mind for you. It's an original and lively recipe, with an unexpected combination of flavors and interesting textures. The idea to create a panettone sandwich came to us when, during preparations for the Christmas holidays, we had leftover veal with tuna sauce . The chicory will contrast the sweetness of the panettone, the sun-dried tomatoes in oil will add savoriness and flavor, while the crunchy note will be provided by toasted almonds. The panettone sandwich will be a very appetizing sandwich that will surprise everyone, a real feast for the palate. After the first exploratory bite, there will be the second of approval, until you finish it with satisfaction. Ready for this new experience? Let's get started!
Discover more delicious Panettone recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the panettone sandwiches, you need leftover meat. We've used the eye of round from the veal with tuna sauce . If you want to prepare it specifically, just clean the meat from cartilage and filaments , then place it in a pot along with cleaned and chopped vegetables. Add bay leaves, cloves, and black peppercorns. Pour in the wine , water, salt, and oil, and put it on the stove .
Remove the foam from the surface and then simmer with the lid on for about 40 - 45 minutes or until the meat reaches 149°F at the center. At the end of cooking, drain the eye of round, cover it with plastic wrap, and let it cool completely .
Meanwhile, prepare the chicory. After removing the base , cut it into pieces about 4 inches long and then rinse thoroughly . Then prepare the garlic clove, cut into a chili, and move to the stove .
In a large saucepan, add a swirl of oil, add garlic and chili, and heat on high flame . Then plunge in the chicory pieces and blanch for just a few moments before seasoning with salt, covering with the lid, and letting it cook gently for about half an hour. Remember to stir occasionally and check that it doesn't stick to the bottom: if the water has completely evaporated, add a little more .
At the end of cooking, remove the garlic and chili and let it cool . Finally, prepare the panettone. From the Milanese panettone, low and wide, cut 8 slices about 0.6 inches thick. Pair those of similar size to avoid having disproportionate sandwiches .
Then heat a non-stick pan well, let a knob of butter melt , and then toast the bread slices for about a minute on each side . Gently press with the spatula and repeat with all the slices .
Now that all the ingredients are cold, slice the meat as thinly as possible : aim for about 3 - 4 slices per sandwich, roughly calculating 1.75 oz per piece. Proceed with the composition. On a slice of toasted panettone, place the chicory , the meat ,
some drained sun-dried tomatoes and some toasted almond flakes . Close with a similar slice of panettone and repeat for all. Your panettone sandwiches are ready, you just have to enjoy them, if you wish, by dividing them in half !
Once ready, it is recommended to consume the panettone sandwiches immediately. Alternatively, you can prepare the veal and chicory in advance while it's best to toast the panettone at the moment or at most a few hours before. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of almond flakes, you can use coarsely ground hazelnuts or walnuts to provide the crunchy part of your panettone sandwich. We didn't want to add a creamy part from cheese because it might soften the whole, but if you really insist, then use a savory cheese like caciocavallo. Lastly, instead of chicory, you can use smooth escarole.

