name:
Panettone French toast
ingredients:
Panettone: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Eggs: 3
Whole milk: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Dark chocolate: 1.8oz(50 g)
Maple syrup: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 5
Cost: Low

instructions:
The French toast is not just a delicious breakfast to start the day, but also a creative way to use up stale bread. This time we decided to replace the bread with panettone , one of the most common leftovers from Christmas holidays, to propose the Panettone French toast! Inspired by the classic pancakes of American breakfast, we stacked the golden slices of panettone on a plate, alternating them with dark chocolate flakes and drizzling everything with plenty of maple syrup... Let yourself be inspired by our recipes and serve Panettone French toast in a different way each time, for example by adding caramelized apples ! Try making French toast using non-leavened panettone as well.
Discover more delicious Panettone recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare Panettone French toast, first cut the panettone into 10 slices about 0.75 inches thick . Chop the dark chocolate and set aside, then pour the eggs into a bowl .
Beat the eggs with a whisk, then add the milk and cinnamon and mix again to combine everything. Now melt a pat of butter in a pan .
Dip the panettone slices on both sides into the egg and milk mixture , then toast them in the pan for about 2 minutes on each side , until they are nicely golden . Continue this way with the rest of the panettone, adding more butter to the pan if it becomes too dry.
You are ready to assemble your French toast: place a slice of panettone on the plate, garnish with the chopped chocolate and cover with another slice of panettone . Add more chopped chocolate and drizzle with maple syrup : your Panettone French toast is ready to be enjoyed!
It is recommended to eat the Panettone French toast immediately.
If you like, you can serve Panettone French toast with fresh berries or a scoop of ice cream!

