name:
Woodland cake of panettone
ingredients:
Panettone: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (with a diameter of 18 cm)
Orange marmelade: 1cup(340 g)
Dark chocolate: 1.1oz(30 g)- curls
Mascarpone cheese: 640
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 4tbsp(60 g)- (about 3 medium eggs)
Water: 3tbsp(40 g)
Cinnamon sticks: 4
Myrtle: - a few sprigs
Chinese Lantern fruits: to taste
Sugar: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes of cooling

instructions:
Among the many beautiful Christmas fairy tales, we've tried to write one ourselves this year. We've taken inspiration from the famous fawn, and we assure you it will have a delicious ending! Our recipe, or fairy tale if you will, is titled woodland cake of panettone, a reinterpretation of the famous and spectacular American naked cake. Inspired by the simplicity and enchanting beauty of the woods, we thought of this dessert that can adorn the table and make it truly beautiful. So, we started with the base made of panettone , the symbolic Christmas cake, filled it with delicious orange marmalade and indulgent mascarpone cream . But what makes the woodland cake unforgettable is the addition of meticulous decorative details. What are you waiting for to recreate this imaginative and equally delicious forest yourself? It will also be perfect for New Year's and you can be sure to surprise all your guests... without telling fairy tales !
Looking for other simple and tasty ideas to serve panettone? Try these recipes as well:
Discover more delicious Panettone recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the woodland cake of panettone, start with the mascarpone cream . In a saucepan, pour the water and sugar , stir and turn on the stove, bringing the temperature to 250°F: for this operation, a pastry thermometer is essential . When the mixture reaches 239°F, pour the egg yolks into a bowl and start whisking them with an electric beater. Once it reaches the temperature, pour the syrup in a thin stream with the beaters running .
Continue beating until the mixture cools to room temperature . Turn off the beaters and work the mascarpone with a spatula to soften it before adding the egg cream . Cover the mascarpone cream with plastic wrap and let it set in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes .
In the meantime, take care of the panettone. We chose an 18 cm diameter panettone, so there is very little waste since the top will be discarded (you can reuse it to make some delicious Cake pops ). Proceed with the cuts using a serrated knife: first, make superficial incisions every 1.18 inches around the panettone, which will serve as a guide during the cutting. Then cut along the lines, just like for How to cut Sponge Cake : you will obtain 3 precise disks . For a clean and precise job, place the base of the panettone in a pastry ring set on a plate .
Spread a thick layer of orange marmalade and then a rich layer of cream, carefully distributing it with a spatula . Finish the first layer by sprinkling with chocolate curls .
And at this point, start again with panettone , marmalade, cream , and finally curls. On the last layer of panettone .
pour some more marmalade and then the remaining cream and smooth carefully . Then cover with a glass dome and let set in the refrigerator for at least an hour . Meanwhile, you can move on to the decorations. Tie the cinnamon sticks, preferably small ones, with food-grade twine. Then rinse and dry the myrtle twigs. Finally, remember to clean the little animals you will use for decoration. For the last, brush the physalis with some marmalade .
Then roll them in sugar and gradually place them on a tray with parchment paper . After the time has passed, take the cake out of the fridge and remove the ring. Finally, decorate the cake starting with the myrtle, arranged in a crescent shape on the surface .
Then add the frosted physalis , deer and fawn , and finally the cinnamon bundle. Sprinkle it all with a little snow (powdered sugar, that is) and your beautiful woodland cake of panettone is ready .
You can store the woodland cake of panettone for a maximum of 1-2 days in the refrigerator, always under a glass dome. Freezing is not recommended.
Vary the marmalade with mandarin or lemon or switch to jams like apricot or red fruits, such as currant, to give a delightful tangy note. Decorate your cake with the woodland animals you like most!

