name:
Panettone Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ¾cup(350 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
White onions: 1.8oz(50 g)
Fontina cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Vegetable broth: 2cups(500 g)
Spumante: ½cup(120 ml)
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Panettone: 3.5oz(100 g)
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
After the holidays, there are always some tasty leftovers of pandoro or panettone that we usually recycle into delightful desserts like panettone pudding , Panettone muffins , or the irresistible Panettone muffins . This year, we propose a recipe using leftover panettone, but it won't be a dessert; instead, it will be a delicious first course that will win you over: panettone risotto, flavored with cubes of fontina that make it creamy and bites of panettone rich in candied fruits and raisins that give it a sweet and sour touch. Bring Christmas flavors to the table with an unusual but very tasty dish!
Discover more delicious Panettone recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the panettone risotto, cut the panettone and the fontina into small cubes and set them aside, peel and finely chop the onion .
Heat a drizzle of olive oil in a saucepan, add the chopped onion and let it soften over low heat, then pour in a ladle of vegetable broth and after a couple of minutes, add the rice .
Toast the rice for a few minutes , then deglaze with sparkling wine or white wine . Continue cooking by adding broth , one ladle at a time until the rice is cooked: it will take about 20 minutes.
Once cooked, turn off the heat, season with fresh thyme leaves , stir in the butter pieces , and finish by adding the fontina cubes .
And the panettone pieces (13-14); mix with a spoon so that the fontina melts, flavoring the risotto. Serve the panettone risotto piping hot !
Store the panettone risotto in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day. Freezing is not recommended.
You can also make the risotto with leftover pandoro. To add a crunchy note to the preparation, toast the panettone bites in the oven for a few minutes.

