name:
Leek flan with anchovy sauce
ingredients:
Leeks: 4
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Butter: to taste
Eggs: 3
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3spoonfuls
Fresh liquid cream: 0.625cup(150 g)
Whole milk: 0.625cup(150 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Anchovies in oil: 12fillets
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Cornstarch: ½spoonful
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
The leek flan with anchovy sauce is a delicacy that embodies the heart of winter, an appetizer that makes the simplest and most rustic flavors elegant and refined. The sweetness of the stewed leeks pairs wonderfully with the savory and bold taste of the anchovy sauce. Whether you prepare it for a special dinner, like Christmas Eve, or just to treat yourself on a cold evening, this dish will wrap you in a warm embrace of flavors typical of our culinary tradition.
Discover more savory flans perfect for enriching your Christmas appetizers:
To prepare the leek flan with anchovy sauce, clean the leeks by cutting away the tough green part , then slice them . In a pot, heat a drizzle of oil with a knob of butter .
Add the sliced leeks , salt , and cook on low heat for 15-20 minutes .
Meanwhile, prepare the anchovy sauce: in a small pot, pour a drizzle of oil and a clove of garlic , let it infuse over low heat, and as soon as the garlic starts to sizzle, add the anchovies . Stir with a whisk and cook over low heat to melt them .
Add the fresh cream and cook for 5 minutes. Separately, dissolve the starch in milk , and when the sauce starts to boil, remove the garlic .
Gradually pour the starch and milk mixture just enough to slightly thicken the sauce (you might not need the whole amount) . Blend it with an immersion blender to make it smoother .
Retrieve the cooked leeks, pour an amount equal to 10.6 oz into a tall glass, add the eggs , grated Parmigiano Reggiano , and blend to combine. Now add cream and milk .
Salt the mixture . Butter six 5 oz molds and place them in a baking dish, pouring the mixture without filling it to the edge . Pour boiling water into the baking dish to cover halfway up the molds . Bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for 35 minutes.
Remove the flans from the oven and let them cool slightly. Run a knife around the edge to unmold more easily . Flip the flan onto a serving plate and cover it with the anchovy sauce . Serve the leek flan with anchovy sauce immediately.
You can store the leek flans without sauce in the refrigerator for up to 2-3 days in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap. It is possible to freeze the flans if fresh ingredients were used.
Do not throw away the green part of the leeks; use it to prepare a vegetable broth.

