name:
Filled Vol-au-vent
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- (1 roll)
Whole milk: to taste- (for brushing)
Mayonnaise: 0.6cup(130 g)
Sour cream: ¼cup(50 g)
Tuna in oil: 2oz(50 g)- (drained)
Parsley: to taste
Sichuan peppers: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
You will certainly remember them among the choices in the appetizer cart at restaurants in the '80s and '90s. Those inviting puff pastry baskets with a delicious sauce and delightful shrimp inside. We're talking about filled vol-au-vent, simply unforgettable! If you're feeling nostalgic for those times, we propose how to make them at home. Vol-au-vent are very easy to prepare and can be stuffed in the most original and varied ways. We've already proposed fantasy fillings with robiola, salmon, and Russian salad. Today, however, we invite you to create a creamy and delicate filling with sour cream, tuna, and mayonnaise. Are you ready to create your vol-au-vent for a party or New Year's Eve buffet?New Year's Eve?
If you're short on time, come and take a look at our quick holiday snacks.
To prepare the filled vol-au-vent, roll out the puff pastry and cut out 12 discs of about 2.75 inches in diameter with a pastry cutter . Place 4 of the discs obtained on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper ,
while cutting out the center of the remaining 8 discs with a pastry cutter of about 1.18 inches in diameter . Brush the obtained rings with some milk .
Prick the whole discs so they do not puff up excessively during cooking , then place the holed discs on the large discs, 2 for each one . Brush again with some milk and bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for about 15 minutes or until they are puffed and golden on the surface. Once ready, remove from the oven and let them cool completely.
In the meantime, prepare the filling: combine the sour cream with the mayonnaise , the tuna drained from the conservation oil , the chopped parsley , and the pepper.
Mix everything well , transfer it to a pastry bag, and fill your now cold vol-au-vent . Your filled vol-au-vent are ready to be served, optionally with more freshly ground pepper and basil leaves .
Filled vol-au-vent can be stored for 1-2 days in a food bag.
It's better to fill them at the time of serving or shortly before.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can fill the vol-au-vent with smoked swordfish instead of tuna.
Are you looking for ideas for a Valentine's Day menu to make at home? You can make heart-shaped filled vol-au-vent by following our salty puff pastry hearts recipe salty puff pastry hearts !

