name:
Quick savory panettone
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ⅛cups(270 g)
Broccoli rabe: 8.8oz(250 g)- (weight after cleaned and boiled)
Butter: 11tbsp(165 g)
Eggs: 7.8oz(220 g)- (about 4 medium)
Whole milk: 0.42cup(100 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 5tsp(16 g)
Fine salt: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 8
Smoked scamorza cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Delica pumpkin: 0.6cup(150 g)- (already cleaned)
Almonds: 0.7cup(90 g)
Almonds: 0.3cup(70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
Tasty, naturally colorful, and easy to make: we're talking about quick savory panettone, with broccoli rabe! This is not a traditional leavened dessert, a classic panettone , but a very tempting recipe perfect as a Christmas appetizer or as a centerpiece for New Year's Eve! It's a rich savory pie that visually resembles a beautifully filled panettone: broccoli rabe naturally color the dough a bright green, dried fruit and pumpkin fill it as if they were the candied fruit of a naturally leavened panettone! The best part is that it is impressive, delicious, and quick to prepare! Ready to delight your guests with a perfect and original dish for your vegetarian Christmas menu? Perhaps alongside another quick appetizer perfect for sharing, the quick Christmas Danubio !
Discover more delicious Panettone recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the quick savory panettone, clean and boil the broccoli rabe for about 8 minutes in boiling salted water to taste . You will need about 500g (17.6 oz) of broccoli rabe; once cleaned and boiled, you will need 250g (8.8 oz) for the recipe. Once ready, you can cool them immediately in a bowl with ice water so the color will remain bright. Drain and blend them with an immersion blender along with the milk .
Remove the skin and seeds from the pumpkin, place the flesh in a pan with a drizzle of oil , salt to taste. Stir occasionally and cook over medium heat for about 10 minutes; the cubes should soften but remain firm. On a cutting board, you can cut the smoked scamorza cheese into cubes .
Coarsely chop the sun-dried tomatoes and almonds . Now that you have everything ready, you can start with the dough. First, melt the butter over low heat and let it cool slightly. Then start whisking the eggs with an electric mixer, gradually add the cooled melted butter while continuing to beat.
Now you can also add the broccoli rabe cream , the sifted flour and baking powder , salt , and pepper.
Then add all the filling ingredients: the pumpkin , the coarsely chopped almonds , and the diced scamorza cheese .
Finally, add the sun-dried tomatoes and mix with a spatula . Pour the mixture into an 18 cm (7-inch) springform pan with high sides, well brushed with butter. Cover the surface with more chopped almonds , a drizzle of oil, and a grind of pepper. Bake at 180°C (356°F) for 55 minutes. Once baked and slightly cooled , you can unmold the savory panettone and serve it warm or cold!
The savory panettone keeps well under a glass dome for 2-3 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
This quick savory panettone can be made in other colors by using beetroot instead of broccoli rabe. You can fill it as you like, with Taggiasca olives, mountain toma cheese, pecans, vegetables, and pickles. Perfect for stress-free Christmas lunches and dinners!

