name:
Salmon Lasagna
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Smoked Salmon: 14.1oz(400 g)- sliced
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Spinach: 2.1oz(60 g)- green and red
Dill: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: High

instructions:
Lasagna has always held a place of honor on Italian tables, especially for Sunday lunch or on special holidays and occasions! An undisputed protagonist of our menus, it is also known abroad, especially in the most traditional version, Bolognese style . But more "hungry" users will surely have tasted the many other variants such as fish lasagna or vegetable lasagna , with autumn ingredients like mountain lasagna , all equally rich and appetizing like zucchini lasagna ! We want to add salmon lasagna to this tasty list, very simple to prepare but highly impressive. The classic egg sheets alternate with soft slices of smoked salmon, accompanied by the freshness of baby spinach leaves and the velvety consistency of the essential béchamel . Plenty of black pepper and some sprigs of dill add a lively and spirited note that will make it truly irresistible! Surprise your guests by bringing to the table a delicious reinterpretation of one of the most appreciated first courses of our cuisine: salmon lasagna will be suitable for any occasion, from informal to more important ones... try them for Christmas lunch!
Discover more delicious Lasagna recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the salmon lasagna, first prepare the béchamel: pour the milk into a saucepan, flavor it with nutmeg and a pinch of salt, and heat it over low heat. Meanwhile, put the butter in another saucepan and let it melt over low heat, then turn off the heat and add the flour all at once , stirring with a whisk to avoid lumps .
Turn the heat back on low and continue stirring until the flour and butter mixture becomes golden: this way, you will have obtained the roux . At this point, pour some warm milk into the saucepan to thin the base , then add the rest of the milk and stir vigorously with the whisk until the sauce has reached a rather fluid consistency .
When the béchamel is ready, you can start assembling the lasagna: take a rectangular baking dish measuring 8x12 inches, pour a ladle of béchamel on the bottom and spread it well over the entire surface, then place 3 sheets of lasagna . Pour another ladle of béchamel to cover the sheets ,
add a handful of previously washed and dried baby spinach and cover with the slices of smoked salmon . Season with some sprigs of dill , a grind of pepper, and grated Grana Padano , then repeat the layers until the ingredients are used up: you should have 4 layers in total.
Create the last layer by placing 3 sheets of lasagna , cover with the béchamel , add some pieces of smoked salmon, and grated Grana Padano
and a grind of pepper . Once completed , bake the lasagna in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 40 minutes, placing the dish on the middle rack, until they are nicely golden on top. Serve your salmon lasagna piping hot !
Salmon lasagna can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days. You can freeze them if you used fresh, not thawed ingredients.
If you wish, you can replace the baby spinach with finely sliced fennel sautéed with a bit of oil. Alternatively to dill, you can also use thyme leaves.

