name:
Panettone without leavening
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 7oz(200 g)- (about 4 whole)
Sugar: 0.67cup(125 g)
Partly skim milk: ¾cup(200 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 3.5oz(100 g)
Blueberries: 0.3cup(50 g)- dried
Honey: 1tbsp(25 g)
Baking powder: 3 ¾tsp(16 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 3.7tbsp(50 g)
Potato starch: 6.3tbsp(50 g)
Sugar: 3 ½tsp(15 g)
Egg whites: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Almonds: to taste
Granulated sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note plus 30 minutes to freeze the chocolate chips

instructions:
Do you want to prepare and serve a panettone on the same day, perhaps on Christmas Day? The no-leavening panettone comes to the rescue. We know that this preparation requires very long times to obtain a soft and fragrant product. But for those who are not experts in large leavened products or wish to achieve an equally delicious effect, the recipe with the classic instant cake yeast is perfect. The final appearance will indeed be a panettone, with a texture and flavor closer to a soft cake, enriched with lots of chocolate chips and dried cranberries. You can even slice it for a delicious panettone French toast ! On the surface of this no-leavening, truly clever panettone, you won't miss the classic glaze and typical almonds. Prepare the no-leavening panettone yourself and customize it according to your tastes!
Also try these variations of panettone:
Discover more delicious Panettone recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the no-leavening panettone, first put the chocolate chips in the freezer for 30 minutes (this trick prevents the chocolate chips from sinking to the bottom of the panettone during baking). Prepare the glaze for the surface and store it in the refrigerator until ready to use: lightly whip the egg white with a fork, add the granulated sugar and mix . In a bowl, put the eggs and granulated sugar and work the ingredients with a fork ;
Add the milk , sunflower seed oil and mix to blend the ingredients well .
Also add the honey and mix again. In a bowl, pour the flour, potato starch and yeast; mix .
Gradually add the dry ingredients to the egg mixture . Continue to mix with a fork until you get a smooth, lump-free batter .
Add the dried cranberries and the frozen chocolate chips . Mix well ,
until they are well combined . Pour the batter into a 1 lb panettone mold or a 8-inch high mold . Pour the glaze over the surface of the panettone ;
decorate with sugar sprinkles and almonds . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 45 minutes, on the middle-lower rack. Always do the toothpick test before removing from the oven. Remove the no-leavening panettone from the oven , let it cool and serve.
The no-leavening panettone stays soft and moist for 2 days, stored under a glass dome at room temperature.
Instead of dried cranberries, you can use candied fruit or coarsely chopped nuts.

