name:
Boats with whipped cod
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)- chilled
Sichuan peppers: ⅛tsp(2 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Fine salt: to taste
Desalted cod: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Lemon peel: 1
Dill: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 10
Cost: High

instructions:
If you think that the spritz and the Venetian liver are the most known dishes of Veneto, you are mistaken. There's the famous whipped cod , an ancient and delicious preparation, so widespread that it can be purchased at the deli or regularly enjoyed on bread or polenta crostini during an aperitif with cicchetti. Today we offer you a quick and tantalizing variant called boats with whipped cod. In short, we created a quick shortcrust pastry that we made special with a couple of ingredients and filled it with this amazing pâté. Therefore, the boats with whipped cod are perfect for aperitif time to whet your friends' appetite. But try to imagine these delights on the holiday table along with other treats. Oh yes, since you're making the shortcrust pastry, why not add some delicious Brisè baskets with goat cheese and herbs ? Show everyone how skilled and creative you are in the kitchen! But now we'll explain how to make the boats with whipped cod; let's start.
Are you short on ideas for your holiday menu? Come discover our selection of 30-minute Christmas recipes!
To prepare the boats with whipped cod, start with the latter. Remove the skin from the cod using a thin, smooth-bladed knife . Cut into large chunks and make sure there are no bones . Then in a pan where you have drizzled some oil, add the pieces of cod, let them flavor for a moment .
before cooking it over low heat, covered with a lid for 15 minutes, . After the time has passed, transfer the cod to a saucepan where you have poured the milk and let it cook over low heat, stirring continuously: this way you can achieve the whipped effect, or creamy . It will take about 30 minutes.
Let the mixture cool slightly and then pour it into a blender , then blend until you get a puree as smooth as possible. Store in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for at least 3 hours . Meanwhile, prepare the shortcrust pastry. In the blender, add the pepper, rosemary needles
and 50 grams, taken from the total quantity . Turn on the machine and when everything is reduced to powder, add it back to the total amount of flour and mix. Then pour into a bowl with cold butter in chunks , add the salt .
Begin to knead everything with your fingertips, working quickly to avoid the mixture warming up too much . As soon as you get crumbs, add the ice water and continue kneading . Then transfer the mixture to the work surface and work for a moment to compact it .
Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours. Retrieve the dough and beat it for a moment with a rolling pin before rolling it out on a lightly floured surface , you should obtain a sheet 1/25 inch (about 1 mm) thick .
Cut the dough using the mold to obtain boats. Place the cut dough inside the molds, using the scraps to create a border all around and then prick the base with a fork . Place 10 small sheets of parchment paper in the middle
and small ceramic spheres so you can proceed with blind baking. Bake in a static oven, already hot at 350°F, for about 30 minutes. Remove the spheres and parchment paper and bake for another 5 minutes, the time needed to brown the shortcrust pastry, before letting it cool and removing the boats from the molds; let them cool on a rack . Fill with the whipped cod by spooning it in .
and garnish with lemon zest cut with a knife . Add a few sprigs of fresh dill, a drizzle of raw oil, and a sprinkle of black pepper . The boats with whipped cod are ready, enjoy !
Once the boats with whipped cod are ready, it's recommended to consume them immediately, otherwise, you could store them for a few days in the refrigerator, remembering that the consistency will change. The whipped cod can be prepared in advance. Finally, you can freeze the boats either cooked or raw (just the dough).
The boats with whipped cod are very tasty so we recommend making only very small changes. The pepper in the dough, for example, can be omitted if desired, while the lemon zest can be replaced with the peel of other citrus fruits.

