name:
Fantasy Vol-au-vent
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 3rolls- rectangular
Eggs: 1
Shrimp paste: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Mayonnaise: 2tbsp(30 g)
Ketchup: ¼cup(50 g)
Chives: to taste
Robiola cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Arugula: 0.4oz(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Prosciutto cotto: 6oz(170 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.7cup(150 g)
Ground pistachio: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Fantasy vol-au-vent are a timeless Christmas appetizer that offers a wide range of variations. These crispy puff pastry shells can be filled in many ways, some more creamy than others! Today we offer you 3 delicious versions: 1 vegetarian with arugula and cheese, 1 seafood with shrimp, and 1 meat-based with cooked ham, to satisfy everyone's tastes. You can serve them for Christmas lunch or for the Christmas Eve dinner. The preparations are all simple and making them will be a breeze, you can use ready-made shells for a quick Christmas appetizer, but we also show you how to make them at home with ready-made puff pastry! Along with the puff pastry Christmas tree , vol-au-vent are a must on holiday tables, also perfect for enjoying standing up! Try these other appetizers with puff pastry:

To prepare the fantasy vol-au-vent, roll out the first sheet of puff pastry on a flat surface. Then, using a pastry cutter with a diameter of 2.5 inches, cut out 12 discs . Do the same with the other 2 sheets of puff pastry. You will cut out a total of 36 discs. Place 12 discs on a baking tray and prick them with a fork . With a 1.5 inch pastry cutter, cut holes in the other 24, creating rings . Tip: do not discard the central disc; you can bake it as well, brushing it with egg and enriching it with sesame seeds or grated cheese.
Brush each pricked disc with beaten egg using a brush, then place a ring on it and brush again with the egg . Place another ring on top and brush one last time with the beaten egg . Each vol-au-vent will require: 1 full disc and 2 rings, for a total of 3 layers. With these quantities, you will make 12 vol-au-vent.
Bake the shells in a preheated static oven at 390°F in the lower part for about 15 minutes. Once they are golden brown, take them out and let them cool, preferably on a wire rack . Once completely cold, use a teaspoon to press down the puff pastry in the center, which will have puffed up during baking .
This way you will create a cavity to fill . Now start with the fillings. For the vegetarian one, add the robiola cheese and oil to a mixer . Also add the arugula .
Blend everything until you get a smooth cream . For the shrimp filling: add them to a pan with a drizzle of oil . Season them with salt and pepper .
Sauté them quickly for a few minutes until they are well browned , then transfer them to a bowl. Let them cool slightly and add ketchup and mayonnaise . Chop chives into the mix as well .
Mix well and this filling is ready too . To prepare the last filling, add ricotta cheese and cooked ham to the mixer.
Blend everything until you get a smooth cream . Your 3 fillings are ready , transfer both the ham and vegetarian fillings into two separate piping bags. Use a spoon to fill 4 vol-au-vent with the shrimp filling .
Then fill 4 with the arugula filling and another 4 with the cooked ham filling . The vol-au-vent are ready to serve .
When freshly made, the shells will definitely be more crispy, but you can also prepare them a day in advance. However, we recommend filling the vol-au-vent shortly before serving them.
You can get creative and use ingredients you love most. Caramelized pears and taleggio cheese, bell peppers, onions, and casera cheese, primosale cheese, and baby spinach. Let your imagination run wild! With the excess puff pastry, brush it with a sun-dried tomato pesto and bake for 15 minutes at 390°F and serve it as an appetizer.

