name:
Pomegranate Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Pomegranate: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (about 4)
Yellow onions: 2oz(60 g)
White wine: ½cup(120 g)
Vegetable broth: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Simple, original, and refined: pomegranate risotto is a surprise for both the eyes and the palate! If you love playing in the kitchen with colors and contrasts, this recipe will certainly win you over. The pomegranate fruit is very versatile, and both the seeds and juice can be used in combination with various ingredients, from fish to meat. Being considered a good omen, it is the perfect protagonist for the New Year's Eve dinner but can also become a romantic ally for a Valentine's Day menu to make at home, thanks to the rosy touch it gives to dishes. Whatever the occasion, pomegranate risotto is a first course that certainly deserves a taste, even in the variant Pomegranate Risotto with Leek Cream !
Also discover these delicious savory recipes with pomegranate:
Discover more delicious Risotto recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the pomegranate risotto, first prepare the vegetable broth and keep it warm. Seed the pomegranates: remove the cap and divide each fruit into 4 parts, without completely separating them , then open them like a flower and let the seeds fall into a bowl . Transfer the pomegranate seeds into a blender, making sure to set aside 2 tablespoons for decoration .
Blend at maximum speed , then strain the resulting puree through a sieve by pressing with the back of a spoon ; you will need about 9 oz of filtered juice . Set aside.
Peel and finely chop the onion . Place the onion in a saucepan with the oil and let it gently soften, then add the rice .
Toast the rice for a few minutes, stirring constantly . When the rice becomes translucent, deglaze with the white wine and let it evaporate completely. At this point, pour in the pomegranate juice and start cooking the rice over medium-low heat.
When the liquid has been absorbed, continue cooking by adding one ladle of broth at a time . Once the rice is cooked, adjust the salt and pepper, then turn off the heat and stir in the butter and grated cheese. Mix well to make it nice and creamy and serve your pomegranate risotto immediately, decorated with the reserved seeds !
It is recommended to consume the pomegranate risotto immediately.
If you love bold flavors, you can stir the pomegranate risotto with taleggio or gorgonzola instead of butter!

