name:
Salted Caramel Cake
ingredients:
Almond flour: 1cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Butter: 11tbsp(150 g)- cold
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Eggs: 1
Orange peel: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: ½tsp(3 g)
Roasted salted peanuts: 0.6cup(90 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.3cup(80 g)
Sugar: 0.7cup(140 g)- (75 g + 65 g)
Marzipan: ⅓cup(75 g)
Orange peel: 1tsp(5 g)
Sugar: 5tsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Edible gold: to taste- leaves

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: High

instructions:
The salted caramel cake is a guilty pleasure dedicated to lovers of contrasts! Two layers of almond shortcrust pastry filled with a toffee-flavored cream made with caramel , cream, and marzipan. The addition of salted roasted peanuts gives a crunchy note and a hint of saltiness that further enhances the sweetness of the filling. A delicious and refined dessert, perfect for the holiday season or to conclude a special dinner... have you already thought about who to dedicate it to? While you decide, follow Frau Knam's instructions and start getting to work!
Try these other salted caramel sweets:

To make the salted caramel cake, first prepare the shortcrust pastry: in a bowl pour the butter and sugar , then quickly mix them together .
After incorporating the sugar, add the grated orange zest , salt , and the egg .
Knead everything well , then add the all-purpose flour and almond flour .
Continue working with your hands to incorporate the flours , then transfer the mixture to the work surface and continue kneading until smooth and homogeneous . Shape into a dough, wrap it in cling film, and let rest in the refrigerator for 2 hours .
In the meantime, prepare the filling: pour 75 g of sugar into a saucepan and place it over medium-high heat without touching it. When the sugar begins to melt at the edges, you can lower the heat and stir with a wooden spoon until completely dissolved . Meanwhile, heat the cream in another saucepan until it is about to boil. When the sugar is almost fully dissolved, add the hot cream and stir to combine. Then add the marzipan in pieces .
Stir until the marzipan is completely melted in the boiling caramel , then turn off the heat and add the salted peanuts and grated orange zest .
Add the remaining 65 g of sugar and mix well to combine everything . Transfer the filling to a low and wide container and let cool at room temperature .
After the shortcrust pastry has rested, roll it out on a lightly floured surface to a thickness of 1/8 inch . Place a 6-inch diameter mold on the pastry and use it to cut out 2 discs, one for the base (which will also cover the edges) and one for the cover . Line the mold with the first disc of pastry and remove the excess with a knife .
Add the filling inside the pastry shell and spread it evenly with the back of a spoon. Beat an egg in a bowl and brush the edge of the cake . Take the second disc of pastry and make a small hole in the center : this will allow air to escape during baking.
Cover the tart with the pierced pastry disc and press the edges to adhere well. Now add the sugar and salt to the beaten egg and mix .
Brush the surface of the cake with the obtained mixture , then bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 30 minutes. When the surface is nicely golden, remove from the oven and let cool in the mold , then unmold and garnish with gold leaves: your salted caramel cake is ready to be served !
The salted caramel cake can be stored for 2-3 days at room temperature.
If you prefer, you can replace the peanuts with other nuts, such as cashews!

