name:
Risotto with Taleggio, Pears, and Walnuts
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 0.9cup(180 g)
Taleggio cheese: 5.5oz(150 g)
Bosc pears: 2
Walnut kernels: to taste
Shallot: 1
Thyme: 2sprigs
White wine: ½glass
Vegetable broth: 2cups(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
Cheese and pears, as we've said many times, is a time-honored and renowned pairing. If you add the crunchy note of nuts to this established duo, success is guaranteed! The Taleggio, pear, and walnut risotto is a variant of the classic risotto with Gorgonzola, pears, and walnuts , a first course that plays with the contrast between sweet and savory flavors. In this case, we used the typical cheese produced in the namesake valley of Bergamo, characterized by a soft texture and buttery flavor, perfect for perfectly creaming a risotto. The addition of caramelized fruit cubes creates a harmonious and complex balance that will make you love the Taleggio, pear, and walnut risotto from the first bite!
Also try these Taleggio risotto variants:
Discover more delicious Risotto recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the Taleggio, pear, and walnut risotto, first make the vegetable broth and keep it warm. Peel the pears and cut them first into slices and then into cubes . Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan and add the pears .
Salt, pepper , and caramelize them for a few minutes over medium heat . In the meantime, clean and finely chop the shallot .
Sauté the chopped shallot in a saucepan with a dash of oil , then add the rice , salt it, and toast it, stirring often. When the grains are hot to the touch of your hand, deglaze with white wine .
Let the alcohol evaporate completely, then add a ladle of hot broth and wait for it to be absorbed. Cook the rice by adding a ladle of broth at a time . Meanwhile, cut the Taleggio into cubes .
When there are 2 minutes left to finish cooking the risotto, add the caramelized pears, keeping some aside for decoration , and the Taleggio . Turn off the heat and stir well to combine .
Plate the risotto and garnish each dish with the reserved caramelized pears , walnut halves , and some fresh thyme leaves. Your Taleggio, pear, and walnut risotto is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the Taleggio, pear, and walnut risotto immediately.
To make the flavor of the Taleggio, pear, and walnut risotto even more special, try garnishing it with a drizzle of chestnut honey!
If you don't particularly love the taste of Taleggio, you can prepare the recipe for risotto with Stracchino, pears, and hazelnuts , a more delicate but equally creamy variant.

