name:
Baked pasta with speck and gorgonzola
ingredients:
Mezze Maniche Rigate pasta: 13.2oz(375 g)
Speck: 2.6oz(75 g)- single slice
Gorgonzola cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)- sweet
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 2.6oz(75 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: to taste- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Whether it is white or red, simple or messy, with or without béchamel , baked pasta is always good! And if it is baked pasta with speck and gorgonzola, success is more than guaranteed: the creaminess of gorgonzola pasta combines with the saltiness of speck and the crunchy touch of gratin for an appetizing and tasty first course. Discover how easy it is to prepare gorgonzola béchamel and unleash your creativity to create new variations using your favorite cheese... but first, we invite you to try the recipe and tell us if baked pasta with speck and gorgonzola meets your expectations!
Looking for a vegetarian version? Here's the recipe for Baked Pasta with Gorgonzola Gratin !
To make the baked pasta with speck and gorgonzola, first prepare the gorgonzola béchamel: melt the butter in a saucepan while separately heating the milk. Once the butter has melted, add the flour all at once and quickly stir with a whisk to obtain the roux .
At this point, pour in the hot milk and let the mixture thicken over low heat, continuing to stir for about 10 minutes . Finally, add salt and the cubed gorgonzola , stirring again to blend it in.
Set aside the béchamel and move on to the speck: after cutting it into strips about 0.4 inches thick , place it in a pan with a drizzle of oil and sauté it for 5 minutes over high heat until crispy and golden .
Meanwhile, cook the pasta in salted boiling water . Drain the pasta al dente and transfer it to a bowl, then add the gorgonzola béchamel . Mix well and also add the speck .
Finally, season with grated Grana and mix everything. Pour the pasta into a baking dish , level the surface, and add the gorgonzola chunks .
Sprinkle with grated Grana and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 15 minutes . Once golden, remove from the oven and serve your baked pasta with speck and gorgonzola while still hot !
The baked pasta with speck and gorgonzola can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can replace the speck with pancetta or sausage.
If you like Taleggio, you can use it instead of gorgonzola and follow the same recipe!

