name:
Risotto with Radicchio and Taleggio
ingredients:
Vialone nano rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Radicchio: 1
Yellow onions: 1
White wine: ½glass
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Red wine: 1glass
Port wine: 1glass
Balsamic vinegar: 2spoonfuls
Wildflower honey: 1tsp
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Taleggio cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)- cold
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)- (to be grated)
Marjoram: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The risotto with radicchio and taleggio with wine reduction is a main course that reimagines one of the most beloved winter risottos in a gourmet way. Inspired by the classic radicchio risotto we have created a version with a unique flavor. The radicchio, with its characteristic bitter taste, gives the risotto an earthy and slightly spicy note. The taleggio adds an irresistible creaminess and a slightly pungent flavor, perfectly balancing the bitterness of the radicchio. But the true star of this dish is the Port wine sauce reduction, which lends a sophisticated touch.
Let yourself be tempted by our risotto with radicchio and taleggio and try other delicious variations of this winter dish:
Discover more delicious Risotto recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the risotto with radicchio and taleggio, start with the wine reduction: in a small saucepan pour the red wine , the Port , and balsamic vinegar . Reduce the sauce over high heat.
Meanwhile, peel and chop the onion . Finely slice the radicchio as well and discard the tough central part. In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil and add the onion .
Salt and stew until the onion is wilted . At this point, add the radicchio , lower the heat, cover with a lid, and cook for 5-8 minutes .
Meanwhile, the sauce will have thickened (it should coat the spoon like syrup), add the honey and stir. With the heat off, add the very cold butter , emulsify , and set aside.
In the meantime, the radicchio will be cooked, so turn off the heat and set aside . In a pan, toast the rice over medium heat with a pinch of salt, stirring continuously . When the rice is hot, deglaze with white wine and let the alcohol evaporate.
Now cook the rice by adding hot unsalted water little by little . Make sure the rice is always covered by about a quarter-inch of water . Halfway through cooking, add the radicchio .
At the end of cooking, stir in cold butter and Parmigiano Reggiano DOP . Finally, add the diced taleggio . Cover with a cloth and let it rest for a couple of minutes .
Remove the cloth and stir well to combine everything, adding hot water if needed to adjust the consistency . Once ready , serve your risotto with radicchio and taleggio garnishing the plate with the wine reduction, a grinding of pepper, and some marjoram leaves .
We recommend consuming the risotto with radicchio and taleggio immediately. If there are leftovers, you can store them in the fridge and then gratin them in the oven before serving.
The discarded part of the radicchio can be used to prepare a vegetable broth.
It is not necessary to salt the cooking water because salting the rice grains during toasting will already provide good flavor.
We recommend choosing a good quality wine because, once the alcohol has evaporated, the flavor will be more concentrated.
If you love taleggio, don't miss the recipe for risotto with taleggio, pears, and walnuts !

