name:
Yogurt Pancakes
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Sugar: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Eggs: 2
Yogurt: (70 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(60 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(6 g)
Lemon peel: ½
Butter: to taste- for greasing the pan
Berries: 1cup(140 g)- (raspberries and blackberries)
Yogurt: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)- whole
Sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Raspberries: to taste
Sunflower seeds: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: 1tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Round, fluffy, and of American origin, pancakes are one of the most beloved dishes for breakfast or brunch! The most classic recipe calls for them to be served with maple syrup , but we have experimented with many versions, such as Japanese fluffy pancakes , Cocoa pancakes , or apple pancakes . These soft little cakes are always delicious, and today we want to propose a new recipe... yogurt pancakes are perfect to prepare on Sunday morning for the whole family's breakfast. Waking up to their aroma will be a pleasure, and enjoying them together will make this moment truly special! We enriched the pancakes with a raspberry and yogurt sauce and a crumble of nuts, but you can customize them to suit everyone's tastes!
Also, discover how to make fabulous:
To prepare yogurt pancakes, first take care of the accompanying sauce. Pour raspberries and blackberries into a saucepan , add the sugar , and cook, stirring occasionally, until the sugar has dissolved and the fruits have softened .
Then transfer the mixture to a blender and puree the fruits to eliminate any seeds . Add the yogurt .
Mix and set aside in the refrigerator . Now move on to the pancake batter. Crack the eggs into a bowl, add the sugar , and beat with a hand whisk .
Then add milk , yogurt , and beat again .
Sift in the flour and baking powder , then incorporate them by mixing again with the whisk until you get a smooth and homogeneous mixture.
Finally, add the grated lemon zest and mix one last time. Heat a pan and butter it . Pour a ladleful of batter .
When bubbles start to form , flip it and cook it on the other side . Meanwhile, toast the sunflower seeds and hazelnut crumble in a pan. Arrange the pancakes on a plate .
Garnish with the raspberry sauce , sunflower seeds, hazelnut crumble , and a couple of fresh raspberries. The pancakes are ready to serve .
Raw pancake batter can be stored in the fridge for 12 hours. Cooked pancakes can be stored in the fridge for 1-2 days. Alternatively, they can be frozen.
Replace the coulis with melted dark chocolate or maple syrup.
If you want to enrich the yogurt pancake batter, add half a mashed banana.

