name:
Hot Milk and Cocoa Sponge Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.1cups(135 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 7tbsp(35 g)
Eggs: 6.2oz(175 g)- (approximately 3 medium eggs at room temperature)
Sugar: (160 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(120 g)
Butter: (60 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(6 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you enjoyed our hot milk cake , also in the muffin version , and its aromatic Hot milk and coffee cake , you absolutely have to complete this delicious series with the hot milk and cocoa cake. The consistency is the familiar one, soft and a bit spongy, which makes this dessert unique. In the cocoa version, we added an extra touch of sweetness that will make both adults and kids happy! Chocolate cake lovers can enrich their recipe collection with the simple goodness of the hot milk and cocoa cake, perfect for breakfast with a cup of coffee or as a snack with fresh fruit juice.
Try these delicious cakes as well:

To make the hot milk cake, pour the eggs into a bowl with a pinch of salt , then turn on the mixer. While the mixer is running, gradually add the sugar to help it absorb . As soon as the mixture is light and frothy, it will take about 10 minutes, turn off the electric beaters .
Sift the baking powder, flour , and cocoa into the bowl, gradually adding the powders while stirring with the spatula from bottom to top to incorporate them without deflating the mixture.
Take a couple of tablespoons of the obtained batter and set aside in another bowl . Pour the milk into a small saucepan and heat over medium heat, then add the butter .
Completely melt the butter while stirring with the whisk and bring the mixture to near boiling . At this point, turn off the heat and pour the mixture into the bowl with the reserved tablespoons of batter . Stir well with a whisk to achieve a batter-like consistency .
Add the batter to the rest of the mixture in the larger bowl and gently stir with a whisk or a spatula . Pour the obtained batter into a greased 8-inch diameter pan .
The dessert is ready for baking . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F (175°C), placing the pan on the lowest rack (not in contact with the base) for about 40 minutes. After the first 25 minutes, transfer the pan to the middle rack and continue baking for the remaining 15 minutes. Check the doneness with a toothpick test, then remove from the oven and let cool slightly . Once slightly cooled, remove the cake from the pan and place it on a wire rack to cool completely. Your hot milk and cocoa cake is ready to be enjoyed !
You can store the hot milk and cocoa cake at room temperature, covered with a glass dome, for up to 4 days.
You can also freeze it after it has completely cooled.
The batter, once prepared, must be baked immediately, so it cannot be stored.
Want to make the hot milk and cocoa cake even more delicious? Serve it with raspberry jam to create a pleasant contrast of flavors.
For a gluten-free version, try the recipe for flourless chocolate cake !

