name:
Pizza marinara
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 8cups(1 kg)
Water: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1.4tsp(7 g)
Fine salt: 4tsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4.1tbsp(60 g)
Tomato purée: 3cups(700 g)
Garlic: 4cloves
Oregano: 20tsp(20 g)- (dry)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + preparation and dough rising time

instructions:
Pizza marinara is a typical Neapolitan pizza made only with fresh tomato, oil, garlic, and oregano placed on a thin layer of dough . This pizza is the most famous along with the Margherita : its name comes from the fact that the ingredients, which are easily preserved, could be taken by sailors to flavor bread during their long journeys... the same ingredients we find in other humble dishes from our tradition, such as meat alla pizzaiola. Despite the simplicity of preparation, however, the pizza marinara has an unforgettable taste! Depending on the time available, you can decide to experiment with the dough for long-rise pizza , or on the contrary, with baking soda.
For the toppings, you can unleash your creativity or choose from:
Discover more delicious Pizza recipes and elevate your cooking game!

To prepare pizza marinara, start by pouring the flour into the bowl of the stand mixer . Add the yeast and 100 grams of water, then turn on the stand mixer with the hook attached at medium-low speed .
Proceed by adding the water little by little, taking care to wait until the previous amount has been completely absorbed by the flour . Once about 3/4 of the water has been poured in, add the salt and continue kneading. Gradually add the rest of the water and let it work until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture .
At this point, gradually add the oil (as you did with the water) . When the oil has been completely absorbed, remove the dough from the mixer and shape it with your hands until you form a ball . Place it in a large, lightly greased bowl .
Cover with plastic wrap or a clean dishcloth and let it rise in the oven with the light on . Wait until the dough has at least doubled in volume (1.5 h), preferably tripled (2.5/3 h), and proceed with shaping the pizzas . Once the dough has risen, transfer it to the work surface and divide it into 4 equal parts .
Make a ball with each . Cover with a clean dishcloth and let rest for 30 minutes . Lightly grease 4 pizza pans of 12 inches in diameter with a little oil. Place a ball of dough in the center of the pan .
and start pressing from the center outward, gently stretching the edges if necessary . If the dough is too elastic and tends to return to its previous shape, set aside the pizza you are stretching and proceed to stretch another one, allowing the previous one to rest. Try to stretch the dough over the entire surface of the pan . Separately, in a large bowl, pour the tomato sauce and season it with salt, oil, pepper, and oregano .
Pour a generous ladle of tomato sauce onto the pizza base and spread it in a circular motion, covering almost the entire area, leaving only a border of about 0.6 inches . Peel the garlic and cut it in half. Remove the core and slice thinly .
Now season with oregano , a drizzle of oil, and the garlic . Let the topped pizza rest for about ten minutes, then bake at 410°F for 15/20 minutes in a static oven (otherwise at 375°F in a convection oven for 15 minutes) . As soon as you take the marinara pizza out of the oven, you can serve it hot!
The marinara pizza can be half-baked and then frozen. To use it later, let it thaw at room temperature and finish baking in the oven before serving!
It's important to let the dough balls rest to stretch them more easily!

