name:
Pizza with Salami and Olives
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)- at room temperature
Fine salt: 1.8tsp(10 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(4 g)- (or 0.5 teaspoons if dry)
Pizza mozzarella cheese: 1 ½cup(200 g)- (matchstick cut)
Tomato purée: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Neapolitan salami: to taste
Taggiasca olives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 3 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus the rising time (6 hours)

instructions:
Today we want to show you a really tasty way to top your pizza : an original flavor that will win you over: pizza with salami and olives is one of our favorite variations! To make it, we recommend preparing the dough by hand, following our recipe and respecting the rising times. Pay close attention to the type of flour to use in order to obtain a smooth dough. With our advice, you'll achieve perfect cooking and consistency! The base is that of the Margherita pizza , which we love so much... red and full of mozzarella for the perfect pizza! By adding salami and Taggiasca olives only at the end of cooking, you'll enrich it with unique and tasty flavors that will satisfy everyone's palate. Get your hands in the dough... let's start!
Discover more delicious Pizza recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the pizza dough, we chose to knead everything by hand, but if you prefer to use a mixer, you can follow the same procedure using the hook at a medium-low speed. First, pour the two flours into a bowl , crumble the yeast inside , and pour in some of the water . The ideal water temperature is 77°F.
Mix with a wooden spoon and slowly add the water . Continue to mix, and when you have added about half of the water, you can also add the salt .
Then add the remaining water, always slowly, until you get a homogeneous mixture; use your hands to work it better . Finally, transfer the dough onto the work surface and knead it with your hands until it is smooth and homogeneous .
Once you have a nice smooth dough ball, let it rest on the work surface for about ten minutes, covering it with the bowl . Once rested, give it a small fold: imagine the sphere is divided into 4 parts, take the end of each one, gently pull it and fold it towards the center . Then give the dough a fold .
Turn it over on itself , shape it into a sphere . Transfer the dough thus formed into a bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise. For convenience, you can put the bowl in the oven turned off but with the light on, so the inside will reach a temperature of 79-82°F, ideal for rising; alternatively, you can also keep the bowl in a warm place. The times are approximate because each dough, the temperature, and the weather conditions influence the rising: on average, the dough should take 6 hours to double in volume.
After the rising time, the dough will be nice and swollen , so transfer it to the work surface and divide it with a dough cutter into 3 pieces of 9.3 oz . If needed, you can lightly flour the work surface. Now take each portion and, as before, lift one edge of the dough and bring it towards the inside.
Then do the same for the other 3 edges of the dough . Then stretch the dough by folding it over itself and proceed with the rounding: rounding the dough means turning it with your hands on the work surface, bringing it towards you and then pushing it away repeatedly until you get a smooth and regular sphere .
Gradually transfer the dough balls into a pizza box previously greased , cover with the lid , and let them rest for another 30 minutes .
Meanwhile, place the pizza stone in the oven, position it at the top. Turn on the oven to 482°F and set it to static mode. Now, using a dough cutter, gently lift the first dough ball. Transfer it to a surface with plenty of semolina and add a little more semolina on top. With your fingertips, press the dough ball starting from the center. Continue this way, making a rotary movement to spread the dough . Transfer the dough onto the peel, taking care not to damage it, and top with tomato sauce, previously enriched with salt and oil .
Bake, gently sliding the pizza onto the pizza stone and let it cook for about 6 minutes. Then add a third of the mozzarella and bake again for another 6 minutes. Meanwhile, cut the salami into slices and divide each slice into quarters . As soon as the mozzarella has melted, remove the pizza from the oven .
Top with olives , Neapolitan salami , and serve it .
Once the dough has risen, it needs to be cooked. If you prefer to store it, you can reduce the amount of yeast, cover the bowl with plastic wrap, and let it mature in the refrigerator for 8-12 hours. After that time, it's enough to let the dough acclimate and then continue as per the recipe. The pizza dough, once risen, can also be frozen, preferably already divided into portions, and stored in a freezer bag. Later, it will be enough to let your portion thaw at room temperature and proceed as per the recipe. If you prefer, you can also freeze the pizza half-cooked: just cook it halfway, let it cool, and finally freeze it wrapped in plastic wrap; later, it will be sufficient to bake it, still frozen, at a slightly lower temperature.
Our pizza dough is colloquially said to be cut. This means there are two types of flours: 00 and manitoba. This means that the low protein value of one and the high value of the other will create a perfect value for the pizza, which is between w260 and w300.
If you prefer to add oil to the dough, leave everything unchanged and add 1.2 oz of oil during the working process.

