name:
Pizza by the slice
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Water: 1.6cups(380 g)- cold at 3°-4°C
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: 2 ½tsp(15 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.35oz(10 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 1.67cups(400 g)
Pizza mozzarella cheese: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Artichokes in oil: 8.8oz(250 g)- (drained weight)
Prosciutto crudo: 1.8oz(50 g)
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 0.4cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Note + rising time (about 2 h 15 min. total)

instructions:
What a pleasure to buy a slice of pizza from the bakery and eat it on the street... but we promise you that homemade pizza by the slice with your own hands will be even better! A baking tray pizza with a deliciously crispy base, ready to be topped as you like. You can opt for a classic Margherita or the version with tomato, mozzarella, prosciutto, and artichokes that we propose here, or you could even create a different topping for each slice depending on the diners' tastes, taking inspiration from classic recipes like Diavola pizza or Capricciosa pizza . Great for sharing with family or friends, the pizza by the slice prepared with this recipe is destined to become a must for your evenings!
Also try these baking tray pizza recipes:
Discover more delicious Pizza recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the pizza by the slice, first crumble the yeast into 1 cup of water and stir to dissolve it . Put the flour in the bowl of a stand mixer with a dough hook .
Add the water and yeast mixture and turn on the mixer at low speed. After about 5 minutes, add the salt , then increase the speed and slowly pour in the remaining water .
When the liquid is absorbed, also add the oil slowly and continue to work until the dough is elastic . Transfer the dough to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise at room temperature for about an hour and a half.
In the meantime, prepare the topping: crush the peeled tomatoes by hand , then season with oil , salt, and pepper .
Flavor with basil leaves and mix . Cut the artichokes into wedges and set aside.
After the rising time, turn the dough onto an oiled work surface and stretch it by gently pulling the sides until reaching a diameter of 16 inches , then fold the outer edges inward .
Close the dough and shape it , then form a slightly elongated loaf .
Place the loaf in a container with a lid sprinkled with semolina , close it and let it rise for about 45 minutes. After this time, turn the dough onto the work surface .
Spread the loaf by gently pressing with your fingertips to obtain a rectangular shape, being careful not to release the fermentation gases . Transfer the rectangle to a 12x16 inch non-stick baking tray and brush the surface with oil . Bake in a preheated static oven at 480°F for 5 minutes, placing the tray on the lower shelf of the oven.
After 5 minutes, take it out and spread the tomato sauce , then bake at the same temperature for another 15 minutes, on the middle shelf. After this time, take it out and sprinkle with mozzarella . Bake one last time for 5-6 minutes, this time on the top shelf.
When the mozzarella is melted and golden, take it out and top with artichokes and prosciutto . Garnish with basil and serve your pizza by the slice immediately !
Pizza by the slice can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
You can freeze it after cooking, already cut into pieces.
You can customize the topping as you like, maybe creating multiple flavors on the same tray!

