name:
Paradise Muffins
ingredients:
Eggs: 4.2oz(120 g)- (2 medium)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Yogurt: ½cup(125 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.1cups(130 g)
Potato starch: 6tbsp(50 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp
Sunflower seed oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Whole milk: 0.3cup(70 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: (150 g)
Powdered sugar: 4tsp

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
So cute and fluffy, Paradise Muffins are a tasty and soft idea, a sweet comfort food with a rich and velvety ricotta cream filling that is inspired by soft milk cakes . Every bite of these soft muffins will be a joy for your palate, especially discovering the creamy and delicate heart that gives a refined and inviting touch. You can also vary with different fillings by taking inspiration from our recipe for muffins with a heart . Let yourself be tempted by these single-serving muffins and try other delicious versions:

To prepare the Paradise Muffins, add the eggs and sugar to a bowl , beat with an electric mixer to combine , then slowly add the milk .
Incorporate the sifted flour , cornstarch, and baking powder . Mix again, this time with a hand whisk, then pour in the vegetable oil .
Add the yogurt and grated lemon zest . Mix again with the hand whisk to obtain a homogeneous and lump-free mixture .
In a bowl, add the ricotta, drain if necessary, and the sugar . Mix with the whisk to obtain a cream . Butter and flour a muffin tin, then pour a couple of tablespoons of batter into 6 muffin molds .
Gently place a teaspoon of cream in the center , then cover with the remaining batter up to the edge . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 20-25 minutes.
Remove the Paradise Muffins from the molds , let them cool, and then dust with powdered sugar before enjoying them .
Paradise Muffins can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days. You can freeze them after baking.
If using fresh cow's milk ricotta, we recommend letting it drain in the fridge so that it does not release its whey during baking.

