name:
Meatloaf with speck and potatoes
ingredients:
Ground beef: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Sausage: 0.9lb(400 g)
Speck: 9.2oz(260 g)- (sliced)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- (to be grated)
Eggs: 1
Rosemary: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Potatoes: 10.6oz(300 g)
Peas: ½cup(100 g)
Carrots: 1
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- to be grated
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the time for chilling in the refrigerator (15-20 min.)

instructions:
The meatloaf is one of the family cooks' ace in the hole, not only because it is liked by both adults and children but also because it can be made in a thousand different ways! The meatloaf with speck and potatoes is not the classic oven-baked meatloaf : it is an even more appetizing version stuffed with a soft filling of potatoes, peas, and carrots, wrapped with slices of crispy speck. A main dish with a built-in side, perfect for Sunday lunch or Christmas for example, thanks to its rich and scenic appearance. Your guests will surely appreciate it, and the meatloaf with speck and potatoes will become one of your musts !
Try these other stuffed meatloaf variations as well:

To prepare the meatloaf with speck and potatoes, first, boil the potatoes starting with cold water for about 30-40 minutes, depending on the size . Meanwhile, prepare the meat mixture: place the ground beef and sausage without casing in a large bowl , then add the chopped rosemary .
Add the egg and the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP , then salt .
Mix everything with your hands until you get a homogeneous mixture . Cover with plastic wrap and set aside for a moment. Now focus on the filling: peel and cut the carrot into 3/8 inch cubes .
Boil the carrot and peas in salted water for a few minutes . Meanwhile, the potatoes will have softened, so mash them with a potato masher in another bowl . Drain the carrots and peas and add them to the mashed potatoes .
Also add the Parmigiano Reggiano DOP , salt, and pepper, then mix with a spoon to combine everything .
At this point, spread out rectangles of plastic wrap on the work surface, slightly overlapping them to create a larger rectangle, then place the slices of speck on top, slightly overlapping . Spread the meat mixture over the entire surface to obtain a rectangle of about 16x11 inches, with a thickness of 3/8 inch, making sure to leave the edges free . Finally, distribute the potato mixture in the center of the rectangle, transversely to the direction of the speck slices , and shape it with your hands to form a cylinder.
Start rolling the rectangle from the longer side, using the plastic wrap to help and sealing the filling well inside the roll . Wrap the roll tightly in the plastic wrap and refrigerate for 15-20 minutes .
After the cooling time, remove the plastic wrap and wrap the meatloaf in parchment paper, rolling up the ends, then place it on a baking sheet . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 20 minutes, then remove the parchment paper and continue cooking at 440°F in grill mode for 10 minutes. Once cooked, remove from the oven and serve your meatloaf with speck and potatoes immediately !
The meatloaf with speck and potatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in an airtight container.
You can also use chopped green beans or asparagus for the filling, following the same procedure.
Cooking the meatloaf wrapped in parchment paper helps keep the meat tender. The grill step, on the other hand, will make the speck crispy!

