name:
Chocolate and Walnut Cake
ingredients:
Butter: 9tbsp(125 g)- softened
Eggs: 3- medium
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Dark chocolate: 6.4oz(180 g)
Walnut kernels: ¾cup(100 g)
Cornstarch: 3 ½tbsp(40 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(60 g)
Baking powder: 3.3tsp(16 g)
Cointreau: 0.5oz(15 g)
Orange peel: 1
Dark chocolate: 8.8oz(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(125 g)
Walnut kernels: 4 ½tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + 5 minutes to melt the chocolate

instructions:
For those winter evenings when the craving for sweetness is more intense than ever, the chocolate and walnut cake is our secret cure. With its soft yet dense and buttery texture, strong chocolate and walnut flavor, and delicate orange aroma, this cake always warms our hearts, and if you follow our recipe, it will surely warm yours too. An inimitable comfort food, perfect for accompanying a cup of hot tea or recharging students during study afternoons, this dessert does not let itself be confined to just the role of a snack: the fluffy dark chocolate ganache frosting gives it a refined appearance, a creamy touch, and an elegant patisserie allure that will make it impressive even as a dessert, perfect for concluding lunches and dinners in grand style. Are you already salivating? Join us in succumbing to the sweet temptation of this rich delight!
If you love the taste of these nuts, also try our walnut cake , perfect for breakfast.
To prepare the chocolate and walnut cake, start by breaking the chocolate into pieces and placing it in a double boiler . Let it melt completely , then set it aside and let it cool.
In the meantime, deal with the other ingredients. Place the walnuts in the mixer and blend to obtain a fine flour . Wash the orange and grate its zest .
Now take your stand mixer and add the sugar and softened butter . Turn on the whisk and mix until you get a fluffy mixture . Then start adding the eggs one by one , adding the next one only when the previous one has been fully incorporated into the batter.
Once all the eggs are added, proceed with the orange zest and, while continuing to mix, also pour in the Cointreau . Remove the whisk and sift the cornstarch, flour, and baking powder into the bowl .
Gently mix with a hand whisk or a spatula until the flours are well incorporated into the batter . Then take the chocolate, which should have cooled by now, and pour it into the batter , still mixing with the whisk.
Once the chocolate is incorporated, finally add the walnut flour . Mix thoroughly and pour the batter into a 9-inch pan previously lined with parchment paper . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40 minutes (in a convection oven, bake at 320°F for about 30 minutes). Remove the cake from the oven and let it cool .
While the cake cools, you can work on the frosting: Chop the dark chocolate, put the cream in a saucepan, and bring it to a simmer, then remove from the heat and add the chocolate . Stir vigorously with the whisk to melt it completely, then transfer it to a bowl placed inside a larger container full of ice . Beat the mixture with an electric mixer for 10-15 minutes until you get a well-whipped ganache.
Spread the ganache over the entire surface of the cake until it is covered and, with a smooth spatula, create wavy grooves to give your dessert a textured look. Garnish the center of the cake with some chopped walnut halves and serve!
The chocolate and walnut cake keeps in the fridge for up to 3 days, covered by a glass dome.
If you want to give a different aroma to your dessert, you can flavor the batter with a vanilla bean instead of orange zest, and use Amaretto Disaronno instead of Cointreau!

