name:
Pot-Roasted Turkey
ingredients:
Turkey breast: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Dry white wine: 0.8cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Garlic: 2cloves- poached
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Red onions: 1.8oz(50 g)- half an onion
Carrots: 0.5lb(90 g)
Celery: 0.9oz(25 g)
Parsley: to taste
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼tbsp(15 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the marinating time (30 minutes)

instructions:
Pot-roasted turkey is a tender and juicy meat main dish that evokes cozy and convivial atmospheres of family gatherings. Cooking the roast in a pot allows the meat to retain its juices, making it softer and more flavorful. Thanks to this slow and controlled cooking technique, you will achieve a surprising final result that will impress all your guests. Preparing this roast is simpler than you might think, requiring just a few steps and a bit of care to achieve a perfect result.
This recipe is also a great Thanksgiving alternative if you're looking for something less traditional than a whole roast turkey, but still deeply satisfying and festive.
Are you looking for more turkey roast recipes? Try also:
To prepare the pot-roasted turkey, first tightly tie the breast with kitchen string . Here you will find all the details of this procedure: how to tie a roast . Insert a sprig of rosemary and two bay leaves , washed and dried. Place them in the ties.
Transfer the meat to a pot, pour in the white wine , add the extra virgin olive oil , and two unpeeled garlic cloves .
Season with salt and pepper . Turn the meat so that it absorbs all the flavors .
Peel an onion and add half of it to the pot . Clean the celery and a carrot and add them to the meat . Wash the parsley and add it to the other ingredients .
Cover the pot with a lid and let it marinate in the fridge for 30 minutes, turning the meat after 15 minutes . Put the pot on the stove, over medium heat, to evaporate the alcohol from the wine . Then add enough water to completely cover the meat . Close the pot with the lid and continue cooking over low heat for another 60 minutes or until the liquid has reduced by half.
Remove the meat from the pot and transfer the cooking juices to a bowl, add the flour and blend with an immersion blender . Pour the cooking juices into a pan and cook for a few minutes over low heat to thicken .
Put the butter in the pot , add the meat, and sear for two minutes on each side . Let it cool and remove the kitchen string before slicing . The pot-roasted turkey is now ready, serve it with the cooking juices.
The pot-roasted turkey can be stored whole in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for up to two days. The cooking juices should be blended and stored separately, also in the refrigerator.
If you prefer hot roast, you can reheat it in a pan for a few minutes with the cooking juices. You can also reheat just the meat with a little oil in the microwave, then serve it with the cooking juices, reheated separately.

