name:
Baked Turkey
ingredients:
Turkey legs: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
New potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Dry white wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Butter: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: 1tuft
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 g)
Curry: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 1 hour of marinating

instructions:
With baked turkey, the Sunday family menu is enriched with a tasty recipe. Just like traditional roasts , this is a rich main course, perfect for sharing, which happily brings everyone to the table, just like a classic lasagna ! Oven-baked turkey pairs well with various side dishes; we suggest baby potatoes, sautéed spinach, or other seasonal dishes. Turkey is much less used than chicken, but we invite you to try it for its tenderness and properties: light, tasty, and healthy. Here are some ideas with turkey:
To prepare oven-baked turkey with potatoes, cut the turkey leg into 2 or 3 parts . Wash the meat well and dry it with a cloth. Place the meat in a not-too-large container and season with oil , chopped parsley
salt , rosemary , curry ,
and lemon juice . Mix everything with your hands to cover the meat with the flavors. Cover with plastic wrap and let marinate for 1 hour. Meanwhile, wash and peel the baby potatoes and cut them in half or, if you prefer, leave them whole.
Oil a baking dish . After the marinating time, place the turkey in the baking dish with the marinade . Season with wine .
peeled garlic and oil. Add the potatoes , cover with a sheet of aluminum foil, and cook at 400°F in a convection oven for 30 minutes.
After 30 minutes, remove the foil and turn the turkey pieces. Continue cooking in the oven, without foil, for 50-60 minutes. Frequently turn the ingredients to brown them well, and baste with the cooking liquid . In the last 10 minutes, add some butter on top of the meat to create a crispy crust. The baked turkey is ready to be served .
Store the turkey in a container in the fridge for up to 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
If you have leftover turkey, you can cut it into strips and enrich a mixed salad. Alternatively, you can make delicious fried meatballs.

