name:
Sweet Potato Bruschetta
ingredients:
Sweet potatoes (or yams): 0.7lb(300 g)
Brie cheese: 4.4oz(125 g)
Raspberries: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Brown sugar: 1tsp
Green Peperoncino: 1pinch
Hazelnuts: 0.7oz(20 g)- shelled
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 7 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
The secret of a good dish lies in finding the right balance between its flavors, an exciting culinary challenge that thrives on pairings, often unusual for the boldest, exploring all tastes from bitter to sour, from savory to sweet. This desire to discover new combinations guided us in creating sweet potato bruschettas, a skillful blend of flavors where the tanginess of the raspberries will be a pleasant surprise for the palate and the melting effect of the brie a safe haven. Just one bite will convince you of the goodness of the sweet potato bruschettas... and once you've tried them, you'll want to try these sweet potato recipes:

To make the sweet potato bruschettas, start by washing and drying the potatoes, then slice them lengthwise into 1/4 inch thick slices, without peeling them . Place them in a bowl and season with oil , salt, pepper, and chopped rosemary .
Massage the potatoes to flavor them , then place them on a baking sheet and bake in a preheated fan oven at 400°F for about 20-25 minutes. While the potatoes are baking, cut the brie into thick slices, trying to obtain slices the same size as the potatoes .
Now make the sauce: in a small saucepan, place the brown sugar , chili powder , and half the raspberries .
Cook over low heat for 2-3 minutes, just long enough to obtain a puree . Strain through a sieve (11-12) and collect the obtained sauce in a bowl.
Let it cool before adding the remaining raspberries and mix gently . Meanwhile, the potatoes will be ready, so take them out of the oven ,
place a slice of brie on each and put them back in the oven on grill mode at 475°F for 4-5 minutes to melt the cheese. After this time, remove the bruschettas , add the sauce with the whole raspberries ,
the coarsely chopped hazelnuts , a sprinkle of pepper , and a few rosemary needles. Serve your sweet potato bruschettas immediately .
Consume the sweet potato bruschettas immediately. We do not recommend keeping them after cooking. It is possible to make the raspberry sauce in advance and warm it up when serving the bruschettas.
As an alternative to brie, you can use slices of scamorza to achieve the same melting effect. If you have any leftover raspberry sauce, use it to accompany a cheese board; its sweet and sour taste is perfect for tasting!

