name:
Bucatini with Sausage Ragù
ingredients:
Sausage: 14oz(400 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 2.3cups(550 g)- (variety pizzutello)
Bucatini pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Fresh chili pepper: ½
Shallot: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Oregano: to taste- fresh

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
No one can resist the most rustic and indulgent Italian first courses, such as the famous amatriciana pasta or the timeless carbonara spaghetti. What do they have in common besides being irresistible first courses? The pasta shape: bucatini. "Bucatini is a traitor," as the Romans say, because it often slips off the fork, causing the dreaded sauce stain! But we are willing to take the risk! Due to its shape and quick cooking time, bucatini is perfect for hearty and enveloping sauces, like the one we propose today: bucatini with sausage ragù. This dish has nothing to envy to the most genuine, rustic recipes and is excellent for a dinner with friends or a Sunday lunch. The bucatini will wrap around a flavorful sausage sauce with spicy notes thanks to the fresh chili pepper: a true delight for the palate, forkful after forkful. An alternative to the classic spaghetti that will leave your guests more than satisfied!
To make bucatini with sausage ragù, take the chili pepper, remove the seeds inside , and thinly slice only half .
Peel the shallot and slice it . Cut the sausage laterally, remove the casing , and crumble it on a cutting board .
In a pan, heat a swirl of olive oil, add the chopped chili pepper and sliced shallot . Sauté for a couple of minutes. Then add the sausage , stir , and cook for about 10 minutes over medium-high heat.
When the sausage is well browned, add the canned tomatoes , lower the heat and cook for about twenty minutes. Meanwhile, bring a pot full of water to a boil. When the sauce is halfway cooked, boil the bucatini and cook them al dente. Once the sauce is ready, season with fresh oregano leaves .
Then drain the bucatini into the pan with the sauce , stir for a few moments, flavor with grated cheese and stir again . Serve the bucatini with sausage ragù piping hot!
We recommend consuming the bucatini with sausage ragù immediately. You can freeze the sauce if you have used fresh ingredients.
As an alternative to canned tomatoes, you can use fresh cherry tomatoes!

