name:
Crumble Cake with Jam
ingredients:
Eggs: 2
Type 00 flour: 3 ½cups(440 g)
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: 13tbsp(185 g)
Baking powder: 1.1tsp(6 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Almond slices: to taste
Raspberry jam: 2 ½cups(600 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 29 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
The raspberry jam crumble cake is a rustic and delicious pantry sweet made with shortcrust pastry , an evergreen of homemade cooking, for many also a comfort food that evokes childhood and homemade snacks from grandma, like the Jam cake . The filling with Raspberry Jam gives this cake an irresistible flavor and represents the soft heart enclosed between two layers of crunchy pastry crumbs. The essence of this crumble cake lies in its simplicity, a simplicity that is found in its basic ingredients: flour, butter, sugar, and the delicious raspberry jam. The magic begins when these elements are combined together to create a buttery and crumbly dough that will form both the base and the topping of this exquisite crumb cake, from which the cake takes its name. The raspberry jam crumble cake embodies the charm of homemade cooking, an easy-to-make dessert that can bring joy by satisfying all palates with its many variations:

To prepare the crumble cake with jam, place the cold butter cut into cubes, the flour , and the baking powder in a bowl, and start crumbling the mixture with your hands .
Add the sugar, a pinch of salt , and the vanilla seeds . Finally, incorporate the eggs .
Continue to crumble the mixture to form coarse crumbs , cover with plastic wrap, and place in the fridge for 1 hour . Line a 9-inch springform pan with parchment paper, pour 2/3 of the dough into the pan .
Compact the bottom with your hands or the back of a spoon and also form the edge. Spread the jam and cover with the remaining crumbs .
Cover the entire surface, then distribute the almond flakes . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 60 minutes.
The crumble cake with jam can be stored under a glass dome for 3-4 days. You can freeze it after baking.
Brown sugar adds an aromatic touch, but you can replace it with the same amount of granulated sugar. Instead of raspberry jam, you can use any other flavor you like.

