name:
Sausage and Saffron Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Sausage: 0.7lb(300 g)
Saffron: 0.1tsp(0.3 g)- (2 sachets of 0.15 g each)
Shallot: 1
White wine: ½glass
Meat broth: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 2 ¾tbsp(40 g)- cold
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- cold

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
We have made many risottos, but it is never enough! This beloved first course, in fact, can bring great satisfaction in the kitchen and is also ideal for a dinner with a few friends. The recipe for sausage and saffron risotto combines two great classics, saffron risotto and sausage risotto , creating a variant that enhances the best characteristics of both! Saffron provides an unmistakable aroma and color, while the sausage adds a robust and decisive character to the dish. Sausage and saffron risotto is one of those dishes that calls for seconds until you are completely satisfied and happy, one of those staples that will win over your guests at the first taste... if your mouth is already watering, head to the stove and follow our recipe! Discover these saffron risotto variations as well:

To prepare the sausage and saffron risotto, first prepare the meat broth following our recipe and keep it warm. Score the sausages and remove the casing, then break them into pieces by hand or crush them with the blade of a knife. Clean and finely chop the shallot .
Heat a drizzle of oil in a saucepan, then add the shallot and let it wither over medium-low heat for a few minutes. Add the sausage and brown it for 4-5 minutes, stirring often .
At this point, add the rice and toast it until the grains feel hot to the touch , then deglaze with the white wine .
When the alcohol has completely evaporated, start moistening the rice with the broth, adding a ladle at a time as soon as the liquid dries out . Meanwhile, dissolve the saffron in a small bowl with a little warm broth and mix well to dissolve it .
When there are about 5 minutes left for the rice to finish cooking, add the saffron . Mix well and season with salt . Once the rice is cooked, turn off the heat and stir in the cold butter .
Also add the grated Parmesan cheese and mix everything together . Plate and finish with a grind of pepper. Your sausage and saffron risotto is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the sausage and saffron risotto immediately. If necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator for 2 days.
We used luganega, but you can choose the type of sausage you prefer.

