name:
Savory Pumpkin and Mozzarella Pie
ingredients:
Delica pumpkin: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Mozzarella cheese: 10.6oz(300 g)
Puff pastry: 1roll- round
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste
Corn flour: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Among the many savory pies we bake every day, there is one we had never tried before... the savory pumpkin and mozzarella pie is an original variation of the classic pumpkin savory pie , delicious and easy to make! A perfect dish to prepare in autumn, a truly irresistible pumpkin recipe to serve as an appetizer or for an aperitif. You can use ready-made puff pastry, as we did, or use brisée pastry to easily create a crispy shell that will contain this filling. The melted mozzarella and the oven-baked pumpkin make it so perfect, but pay attention to one crucial step: only by sprinkling the base of the pie with cornmeal and drying the mozzarella well will you be sure to obtain a dry, liquid-free result. With this little trick ready, we can start cooking! Here are other pumpkin recipes you shouldn't miss:
To prepare the savory pumpkin and mozzarella pie, first cut the pumpkin in half and remove the seeds . Then slice it into thick pieces and remove the skin with a knife .
Place the pumpkin slices on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and bake in a preheated ventilated oven at 400°F for 15 minutes. When the pumpkin is soft, remove it from the oven . Let it cool, and meanwhile, slice the mozzarella and place it on a tray with paper towels. Unroll the puff pastry inside a flared pie pan with a base diameter of 8.66 inches and a top diameter of 10.24 inches .
Prick the bottom with a fork and sprinkle the base with cornmeal ; this will help absorb any liquids from the mozzarella and pumpkin. Now place the pumpkin slices .
Season with salt and place the sliced mozzarella on top . Finish with the remaining pumpkin .
Add grated cheese on top , a drizzle of olive oil , and fold the edges of the pastry inward over the filling .
Now you can bake your savory pie . Bake in a preheated ventilated oven at 350°F for 20-30 minutes. Remove from the oven when it is golden brown and let it cool slightly before removing it from the pan and serving .
The savory pumpkin and mozzarella pie can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. We recommend reheating it before serving.
Flavor the savory pie with various aromatic herbs, such as rosemary, thyme, or oregano.

