name:
White Chocolate Tenerina Cake
ingredients:
White chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- soft
Type 00 flour: 2.8oz(80 g)
Sugar: 5 ½tbsp(70 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 3 medium)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The white chocolate tenerina cake is a variation of the tenerina cake , a typical dessert from the city of Ferrara, an irresistible cake thanks to its outer crust and its moist and soft interior. But not everyone loves dark chocolate, so we have the solution for those seeking special sweetness! The white chocolate tenerina cake is just as easy to make and equally delicious. Just a few ingredients are needed to prepare this cake, perfect for any occasion! And if you are looking for other variations, also try the Coffee-flavored tenerina cake or the pumpkin tenerina, perfect for autumn!
To prepare the white chocolate tenerina cake, chop the white chocolate and melt it in a bain-marie or in the microwave . Only when the chocolate is melted, but not excessively hot, add the butter in pieces .
Let this melt as well while continuing to stir . Separate the egg yolks from the egg whites into two different and large bowls. At this point, add half of the sugar to the egg whites and beat them with an electric mixer .
You should obtain a firm and frothy mixture . Set the beaten egg whites aside and add the remaining sugar to the egg yolks , then beat everything at moderate speed until you get a light mixture.
At this point, with the mixer still running, slowly pour in the now lukewarm chocolate and butter mixture , and continue beating until you obtain a uniform mixture . Now add the beaten egg whites in several stages : initially add about 1/3, mixing with a spatula or whisk. Then fold in the remaining egg whites, this time mixing gently from bottom to top.
Add the sifted flour and always mix with a spatula making gentle movements from bottom to top until you get a smooth and uniform mixture. At this point, line a 9.5-inch springform pan with parchment paper (this will make it easier to remove the tenerina cake) and pour the prepared batter inside .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 25/30 minutes. Once baked, let your white chocolate tenerina cake cool before removing it from the pan and dusting it with powdered sugar .
The white chocolate tenerina cake can be stored for 3-4 days under a glass dome. You can freeze it after baking.
It is not recommended to use a convection oven as it may overcook the exterior of the cake and undercook the interior.

