name:
Potato and Sausage Pie
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 2lbs(900 g)
Sausage: 1.5lbs(650 g)
White onions: ½cup(100 g)
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Sage: 6leaves
White wine: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 4.2oz(120 g)- to grate
Robiola cheese: 1cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
We have made many pies in the kitchen, all to satisfy various tastes: from the classic potato pie , to the rich and hearty baked pasta , to the springtime creamy and aromatic Asparagus Pie , we've experimented with many mixes. What these delightful 'pies' have in common is the melty cheese center that makes them so appetizing, which you will also find in our potato and sausage pie, a promise of flavor in every layer that will win you over with its irresistible gratinated surface. This main dish, inspired by the classic sausage and potatoes in a pan , is a true indulgent treat that will warm your winter lunches. The potato and sausage pie is a delicious, rustic, and hearty comfort food to share with the ones you love!
If you love aromatic dishes, also try Sausage and Potatoes with Beer , a delight!
To make the potato and sausage pie, first clean and slice the onion , then chop the rosemary needles and sage leaves .
Slice the sausage lengthwise and remove the casing, coarsely chop the meat with a knife and set aside. Now wash the potatoes well and slice them thinly with the skin using a mandolin; they should be 1/16 inch thick. As you slice them, place them in a bowl filled with water to prevent browning .
Heat the oil in a large pan, then add the sliced onion and let it soften for about 5-6 minutes on moderate heat until it becomes soft and transparent. At this point, add the sausage and the chopped aromatic herbs .
Sauté for a few minutes so the meat takes on color, then deglaze with white wine . Let the meat cook for about 12 minutes on moderate heat, then turn off the heat and set aside . Grease a rectangular ovenproof dish measuring 12x8 inches with oil, sprinkle the bottom and sides with breadcrumbs .
So that it is well-coated . At this point, arrange the well-drained potato slices slightly overlapping, so as not to leave empty spaces. Season with a drizzle of oil , salt, pepper, and a sprinkle of grated Parmesan .
Add some pieces of robiola, distributed in chunks over the surface , and finish with a layer of sausage . Continue again with the potatoes , the cheeses, and the sausage until the ingredients are used up (you will get about 4 layers).
Finish the last layer with the cheeses and pepper ; cook the potato pie in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40 minutes in the middle part of the oven. Once cooked, take out your potato and sausage pie , let it cool slightly, and then serve it by cutting it into slices.
Store the potato and sausage pie in the fridge and consume within a couple of days. You can freeze the dish after cooking if you have used fresh ingredients.
Instead of potatoes, you can use thinly sliced fennel or celeriac. Add some stringy cheese to make your pie even richer.

