name:
Ricotta, Pear, and Chocolate Cake
ingredients:
Bartlett pears: 1.3lbs(600 g)- to be cleaned
Dark chocolate: 7.1oz(200 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.6cup(135 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Eggs: 5.8oz(165 g)- (about 3 medium) at room temperature
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- melted
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(8 g)
Sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + the time needed to drain the ricotta

instructions:
Are you torn between the Soft Ricotta and Pear Cake or the pear and chocolate cake ? Here is our delicious solution that pleases everyone: the ricotta, pear, and chocolate cake. Among all the cakes, this one definitely stands out for its delicious mix of flavors and textures: the ricotta will ensure a soft batter, the pears will add a juicy note, and the dark chocolate will give an extra boost to the flavor. Home bakers who love pear cake can try their hand at a delicious and refined dessert, perfect to enjoy after a meal or as a snack!
Try these variations as well:
To make the ricotta, pear, and chocolate cake, first put the ricotta in a sieve, place it in the refrigerator, and let the excess whey drain for a few hours . Wash and clean the pears, removing the stem and base , then cut them in half without peeling .
Remove the core and slice them thinly . Set aside two-thirds for decoration, while one-third will be used for the batter. Roughly chop the chocolate .
In a large bowl, pour the eggs and sugar , then beat with an electric mixer until the mixture is light and fluffy . Add the previously melted and cooled butter, and beat for another minute .
Gradually add the ricotta and mix for a few more seconds. Incorporate the flour and baking powder and mix again until you get a smooth batter. Finally, add one-third of the pears .
Add the chopped chocolate and mix well with a spatula . Line a 9-inch springform pan with parchment paper and pour the batter .
Level the surface with the back of a spoon and decorate with the reserved pear slices . Position the slices close together, then add more slices oriented in different directions to create fans. Sprinkle the pear slices with a little granulated sugar and bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for 40 minutes, then for another 20 minutes at 350°F in convection mode.
Once cooked, remove from the oven and let cool in the pan before unmolding . Decorate with a little powdered sugar and enjoy your ricotta, pear, and chocolate cake !
The ricotta, pear, and chocolate cake can be stored in the refrigerator for 3 days.
You can freeze it after baking.
Make sure to drain the ricotta properly to prevent it from releasing water in the batter, making it too moist.

