name:
Apple and Hazelnut Porridge
ingredients:
Rolled oats: 1 ½cup(140 g)
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)
Water: 1cup(220 g)
Fuji Apples: 1
Chopped hazelnuts: ⅛cup(20 g)
Acacia honey: 3 ½tbsp(70 g)
Cinnamon powder: 2pinches
Salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 4 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
A trend that has been popular in England for some years and has also taken hold in Italy. We're talking about porridge , the famous "oatmeal" loved even by celebrities, a complete breakfast in the "whole food" morning series: all in a bowl. This dish, obtained by cooking oats in water and milk, or just milk depending on the variations, can be enriched with fresh fruit, nuts, agave syrup, or jams, making it very nutritious and complete. In this recipe, we propose apple and hazelnut porridge, ideal for starting the day with the right energy and sweetness. A true comfort food, rich and aromatic, for the colder mornings. But we're sure it will become a part of your morning routine all year round! Discover spoonful after spoonful the apple and hazelnut porridge, perhaps for a leisurely Sunday breakfast or brunch. Try it also for a substantial snack in complete relaxation, to be enjoyed hot! Are you ready to recharge your batteries? If you don't want to cook, we also have the version of overnight porridge (or Cold porridge ) without cooking!
To prepare the apple and hazelnut porridge, start with the oats: in a pot, pour the water , the milk , and a pinch of salt, then add the oat flakes, stirring with a spatula . Now turn on the heat and cook on medium-low heat, stirring.
Cook the porridge for 4-6 minutes, continuing to stir until it reaches the consistency you prefer : it should be creamy and very thick. When it's ready, turn off the heat and add a pinch of cinnamon . Mix well and then transfer the porridge into two breakfast bowls , setting them aside for a moment.
Now focus on the apples: wash your apple well and cut it into very thin rings, about 1/8 inch thick . Pour the honey into a pan, making sure to leave a couple of teaspoons aside to garnish the porridge later ; let it melt over low heat for 1-2 minutes . Add the apple slices and caramelize them for a minute.
Turn the apples with the help of tongs and caramelize them for another minute on the other side . At this point, you can assemble your apple and hazelnut porridge: take the bowls and place a few apple slices over the oatmeal , add the chopped hazelnuts
sprinkle with a pinch of cinnamon and pour a teaspoon of honey . If desired, you can decorate with more chopped hazelnuts . Your apple and hazelnut porridge is ready to be enjoyed!
The apple and hazelnut porridge is best consumed immediately, while it's still hot: any form of storage is not recommended.
You can flavor your porridge with the fruits and aromas you prefer: pears or bananas, for example. Try it with vanilla, or with lemon, orange, or lime zest: it will be a highly fragrant breakfast!
Also, try our Blueberry and Pistachio Porridge !

