name:
Stuffed Turkey
ingredients:
Turkey: 1- 2 kg
Pork: 0.6lb(250 g)
Sausage: 3.5oz(100 g)
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Onions: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Eggs: 1- medium
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Breadcrumbs: ¼cup(40 g)
Nutmeg: ½tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 7tbsp(100 ml)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Smoked pancetta: 7.1oz(200 g)
Luganega sausage: 0.5lb(200 g)
Golden delicious apples: 4
White wine: 3.5oz(100 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 2 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Stuffed turkey is a sumptuous preparation that looks great on the festive table or for a special occasion or important celebration. The rich and full taste of the stuffed turkey is balanced by the sweetness of apples, which compensate and bring the right balance to the entire preparation. It is very important to cook the stuffed turkey for a long time, so that both the meat and the stuffing inside can cook for the necessary amount of time without becoming dry.
Whether you're hosting a family gathering or planning a festive menu, stuffed turkey is always a crowd-pleaser, especially during the Thanksgiving season , when turkey takes center stage. This version offers a delicious alternative to the classic roast, with added elegance and seasonal charm.
Also discover the baked turkey and the turkey pot roast .
Prepare the stuffing for the turkey: clean the vegetables and transfer them to the mixer and chop them finely, transfer them to a large bowl and add the ground meat, the sausage (removed from its casing and crumbled), knead everything by hand and add the grated Parmesan ,
the breadcrumbs and the whole egg , mix the dough again by hand and season with salt and pepper, add the nutmeg and mix everything again.
Also clean and gut the turkey if you haven't bought it already prepared and ready to stuff (you can ask the butcher to prepare it without the entrails), remove any remaining small feathers with tweezers and then proceed to stuff the turkey by inserting the stuffing with a spoon and pressing well inside to compact it.
Close the turkey with skewers (10-11) (or sew it with a needle and kitchen twine), tie the wings so that they do not fall apart during cooking. Use 1.5 tbsps of butter to massage the turkey
and completely cover it with the bacon , including the legs ; cut the sausage into small pieces of about 1 inch
and wrap them with the remaining bacon , one slice per piece, and then skewer them with toothpicks to secure the bacon. Melt the remaining butter and oil in a baking pan that can also go in the oven, and when they are hot, place the turkey and brown it over medium heat for a few minutes.
Deglaze with white wine and also add the sausage and bacon skewers , let the alcohol evaporate and then bake in a preheated (static) oven at 400°F for an hour. From time to time, baste the turkey with its cooking juices to keep the bacon on the surface tender and the meat moist, which will cook better.
After this hour, wash the apples and cut them in half or into quarters and add them to the turkey , baste again and return to the oven to cook for another hour and a half (if you see that the bacon on the surface becomes too browned, cover the turkey with a sheet of aluminum foil so it continues to cook without burning), remembering to continue basting from time to time with the cooking juices. Once the turkey is well cooked (you can check by inserting a skewer into the meat, if any liquid comes out then the cooking time needs to be extended), transfer it to the serving platter garnished with the skewers and apples, and drizzle with the cooking juices to serve with the meat.

