name:
Baked Gratinated Cabbage
ingredients:
Verza (savoy cabbage): 4.4lbs(1.5 kg)- (to clean)
Prosciutto cotto: 5.3oz(150 g)
Emmentaler cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 4.6oz(130 g)
Bread: 3.5oz(100 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Do you like cabbage but are looking for a different way to enjoy it? Try the recipe for baked gratinated cabbage! A substantial and tasty side dish, also ideal to serve as a second course or a main dish. Two layers of cabbage enriched by a layer of cooked ham and melted cheese, crowned on top with an inviting golden crust... no one will be able to resist this rustic Savoy Cabbage Lasagna ! If you don't believe it, put the baked gratinated cabbage on the table tonight and you'll see that only a few crunchy crumbs will be left.
Also try these appetizing cabbage recipes:
To make baked gratinated cabbage, first remove the outer leaves of the cabbage , then cut it into slices about 3/4 inch wide . Rinse the cabbage well under running water .
Sauté the whole garlic cloves in a large pan with a drizzle of oil , then add the cabbage . Cook over medium-high heat for 15 minutes with the addition of half a glass of water so that it is slightly brothy, stirring often .
In the meantime, cut the ham into cubes and place it in a mixer along with the Emmentaler cheese , then blend to chop everything finely .
When the cabbage has wilted , pour almost all of it into a 8x12 inch baking dish, making sure to cover the bottom . Cover with the ham and cheese mixture .
Add the remaining cabbage and cook in a preheated static oven at 400°F for 15 minutes . Meanwhile, cut the bread into chunks .
Transfer the bread to a mixer along with the diced Parmigiano Reggiano PDO and blend coarsely . Once the cooking time is up, take the baking dish out and distribute the bread and Parmigiano Reggiano PDO mix on the surface .
Drizzle with a bit of oil and bake again in convection mode at 430°F for 5 minutes. When it is well golden , your baked gratinated cabbage is ready to be served !
Baked gratinated cabbage can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
For a vegetarian version of baked gratinated cabbage, you can substitute the ham with a mix of sun-dried tomatoes, pine nuts, and Taggiasca olives!

