name:
Rustic chicken with potatoes
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Chicken Thighs: 1.4lbs(650 g)
Chicken legs: 0.8lb(350 g)
White onions: 2.8oz(80 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
White wine: 0.8cup(200 g)
Thyme: to taste- dry
Oregano: to taste- dry
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Love baked chicken thighs but looking for an equally succulent recipe that cooks without an oven, using just one pan? Rustic chicken with potatoes is the one for you! An easy main course with guaranteed success, thanks to the unfailing combination of chicken and potatoes. Not your usual roast chicken , but a practical alternative that allows you to achieve an equally succulent result: the thighs and pan-cooked chicken thighs will remain very tender and juicy, while the potatoes will brown with the onions, giving us an irresistible golden crust... ideal for Sunday lunch or an informal dinner with friends, rustic chicken with potatoes will make both kids and adults lick their fingers!
Discover other ways to cook chicken with potatoes:

To make rustic chicken with potatoes, first put the chicken thighs and drumsticks in a baking dish, then season with oil , salt, oregano , and dried thyme .
Massage the meat to evenly flavor it . Place the chicken pieces in a preheated non-stick pan and let them brown over medium heat for about ten minutes without touching them. When they are nicely colored on one side, turn them over .
After about 5 minutes, deglaze with white wine and let the chicken cook for another 10-15 minutes without touching it . After this time, turn off the heat and transfer the chicken to a baking dish with the cooking juices , then cover with a sheet of aluminum foil to prevent it from drying out .
In the meantime, peel the potatoes and cut them into cubes about 1.2 inches . In the same pan where you cooked the chicken, add a drizzle of oil and the unpeeled garlic cloves .
Add the potatoes , salt , and brown them over medium heat for about 15 minutes .
Meanwhile, peel and slice the onion . After 15 minutes, the potatoes will have colored, so remove the garlic cloves and add the onion first and then the chicken .
Add the cooking juices back to the pan and continue cooking over medium-low heat for another 10 minutes, stirring gently to avoid breaking the potatoes. Once cooked, season with dried oregano and serve your rustic chicken with potatoes immediately !
Rustic chicken with potatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
Use the herbs of your choice, such as sage or bay leaves!
If you prefer, you can replace the white onion with a red one.
Looking for other recipes to cook Chicken in a pan ? Try hunter-style chicken in white , enriched with olives, perhaps served with a side of pan-cooked potatoes !

