name:
Stuffed Guinea Fowl
ingredients:
Guinea fowl: 4.4lbs(1.5 kg)
Ground beef: 0.44lb(200 g)
Sweet Pancetta: 2.5oz(70 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 3.5oz(100 g)
Porcini mushrooms: 0.7oz(20 g)- dried
New potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Borettane onions: 8.8oz(250 g)
Vegetable broth: 0.8cup(200 g)
Sage: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
If you are looking for a main course to enrich your Christmas menu, we have just the thing for you. The lunch of the 25th is saved thanks to our recipe... let's discover how to prepare stuffed guinea fowl! A rich and sumptuous Christmas main course that will bring friends and family around the table to celebrate together. Preparing the guinea fowl is simple: following our cooking method and basting it with broth, the meat will remain moist but well-cooked, and thanks to this stuffing, it will be super flavorful! We blended together meat, bacon, two types of mushrooms, and an aromatic blend to create a filling that everyone will love! Serving it with a classic side dish, like potatoes and small onions, we were sure not to go wrong... indeed, the result is guaranteed! Discover how to make stuffed guinea fowl yourself for a perfect Christmas! Here are more Christmas recipes you won't want to miss:

To prepare the stuffed guinea fowl, first chop rosemary, sage, and peeled garlic cloves . Wash the baby potatoes, dry them, and if they are too large, cut them in half without peeling. Transfer them to a bowl, season with salt, oil, and half of the aromatic blend . Mix well .
Add the small borettane onions and mix again . Set aside and move on to the stuffing for your guinea fowl. In a small bowl, pour the dried porcini mushrooms and cover them with water .
Meanwhile, clean the champignon mushrooms with a damp cloth and remove the base with a knife . Then cut them into pieces . Also, cut the bacon into cubes .
At this point, place the champignon mushrooms, bacon, ground meat , rehydrated and drained porcini mushrooms , and almost all of the remaining aromatic blend into a food processor fitted with blades. Add a pinch of salt, but do not overdo it.
Blend well until you get a homogeneous mixture . Take the guinea fowl and make sure there are no feathers, otherwise burn them with a blowtorch or pass the guinea fowl over the kitchen stove. Then salt both the inside and the skin of the guinea fowl , massaging well to allow the salt to penetrate inside.
Stuff it with the prepared filling and with a needle and kitchen twine, close the lower part , this way the filling won't come out during cooking. Place the guinea fowl in a baking dish and arrange the side of onions and potatoes around it .
Season the guinea fowl with a drizzle of oil and add the remaining blend . Bake at 392°F for 20 minutes, then baste the guinea fowl with broth and continue cooking for another 70 minutes, lowering the oven to 356°F. At this point, remove the stuffed guinea fowl from the oven and let it rest for a few minutes before serving.
The stuffed guinea fowl can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days, but keep in mind that it tends to dry out. If you plan to serve this main course on Christmas day but time is tight, you can prepare it the day before and store it in the refrigerator. Then cook it the next day before serving!
You can enrich the stuffing with other ingredients such as cured meats, cheeses, and dried fruits.
You can use ground pork or replace the bacon with sausage.

