name:
Sandwich cake with mascarpone cream
ingredients:
Eggs: 5
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Lemon juice: 1tsp(5 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1pinch
Fresh liquid cream: 0.6cup(150 g)
Mascarpone cheese: ½cup(100 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
The sandwich cake with mascarpone cream is the perfect recipe for those who love experimenting with new sweets that are more and more tantalizing! These delicious sandwiches are made with a base that resembles the Japanese Cheesecake , famous for its "sponge" effect, but with the addition of an aromatic touch that will make it even more fragrant. To fill the cake, we opted for a delightful mascarpone cream in its express version, a preparation that is not only easy and quick to make but will also give the filling the right structure. Beautiful, scenic, and especially tasty, our sandwich cake is undoubtedly a dessert that will tempt everyone!
To prepare the sandwich cake with mascarpone cream, separate the egg yolks from the whites. In a bowl, mix milk and oil , then grate the lemon zest .
Add the vanilla extract , the flour , and mix with a whisk .
Finally, pour in the egg yolks and mix to incorporate them . In another bowl, combine the sugar with the egg whites, then pour in the lemon juice .
Incorporate the salt , then beat with an electric whisk until you get a soft and frothy mixture .
Pour a couple of tablespoons of the whipped mixture to soften the first batter , then gently incorporate the rest. Transfer the batter to a greased and floured 12x8 inch baking sheet and bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for about 30 minutes.
Let it cool completely . Prepare the cream: in a bowl, pour the heavy cream, mascarpone, and sugar . Flavor with the vanilla extract .
Whip the cream with an electric whisk . Now, turn out the base onto a rack , first running the back of a knife blade along the edge to more easily detach the batter. Flip the cake onto a sheet of parchment paper, even out the edges, and split it in half .
Spread the cream on one of the halves . Level it carefully with a spatula and then place the second rectangle on top .
Sprinkle with powdered sugar and first divide into 3 squares (about 3.5 inches each) then cut each square in half to get 6 triangles . The sandwich cake with mascarpone cream is ready !
The sandwich cake with mascarpone cream can be stored for 2-3 days at most in the fridge.
Instead of lemon, you can also flavor the batter with orange.

