name:
Four Cheese Rice Croquettes
ingredients:
Roma rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Emmentaler cheese: 2.6oz(75 g)
Provolone cheese: 2.7oz(75 g)
Shallot: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Vegetable broth: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Saffron: 0oz(0.15 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 3 ¼cups(700 g)
Eggs: 2
Breadcrumbs: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the time to cool the rice and filling (and the time to prepare the vegetable broth)

instructions:
The rice croquettes are a really tasty appetizer, perfect to enjoy with company! Today we show you an even more delicious variant: four cheese rice croquettes. To prepare them, the first thing you need to do is make a good risotto and let it cool completely so that it becomes moldable. To cream it, we used 3 cheeses: Emmentaler, provolone, and gorgonzola, while the fourth cheese, Grana Padano DOP, is found inside the filling made with cream and saffron. The secrets to perfect croquettes that don't open during cooking are 3: the rice must be cold, then it should be well compacted, and lastly, the croquettes need to be perfectly breaded. By following our recipe, you'll get crispy and super tasty four cheese rice croquettes!
To prepare the four cheese rice croquettes, start by making the vegetable broth following our recipe and keep it warm. Move on to the risotto. Finely chop the shallot , then place it in a large saucepan with a drizzle of oil . Stew over low heat for about 4-5 minutes .
Now add the rice to the pan and toast it for a few minutes. Cook the rice by adding the hot broth little by little . Always wait for the liquid to be absorbed before adding the next ladle of broth .
In the meantime, cut the Emmentaler and provolone into cubes. Once the rice is cooked, season with salt and turn off the heat, then add the provolone cubes .
Also add the Emmentaler and gorgonzola and mix well to cream the rice until all the cheeses are melted .
Transfer the rice onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and level it out . Cover with plastic wrap and let it cool in the fridge. Now focus on the filling. Pour the cream into a small saucepan and heat it up. Add the grated Grana Padano DOP and mix.
Also add the saffron and mix to dissolve it completely . Cook over low heat for about 5-6 minutes until it thickens .
Let it cool for about 15 minutes, then use a spoon to form 12 balls with the help of 2 teaspoons and transfer them one by one onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . When the rice is cold, take a small portion and spread it onto the palm of your hand . Place a filling ball in the center .
Now fold the rice over to cover the filling and shape it into a croquette. Do this to form all the croquettes; with these quantities, you'll get 12 croquettes. Move on to the breading. Beat the eggs with a bit of pepper. Coat the croquettes, one by one, first in the egg and then in the breadcrumbs .
They need to be well coated on all sides . Continue this way to bread all the croquettes and place them on a tray . Heat the oil in a tall pot to a temperature of 340°F. Immerse a few pieces at a time , so as not to lower the temperature too much.
Fry the croquettes for 3-4 minutes until they are golden brown . Drain and transfer them onto a sheet of kitchen paper . Serve your four cheese croquettes while still hot !
It is recommended to serve the four cheese croquettes immediately.
It is possible to prepare everything a day in advance. Alternatively, you can freeze the breaded croquettes and fry them just before serving.
You can flavor the rice with aromatic herbs, such as thyme or rosemary.
The suggested cheeses can be replaced with other melty cheeses, according to your taste!

