name:
Boiled Meat in Pressure Cooker
ingredients:
Pork: 2.2lbs(1.2 kg)- (real or beef brisket)
Celery: 2ribs
Carrots: 2
Onions: 1
Cloves: 4
Ground black pepper: 4
Thyme: 1sprig
Bay leaves: 1sprig
Parsley: 1sprig
Fine salt: to taste
Coarse salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note For this recipe, a 6L capacity pressure cooker is used

instructions:
Boiled meat in a pressure cooker is a very easy winter recipe that will allow you to prepare one of the traditional second courses in a quicker but equally tasty way, saving time and energy. Like the traditional boiled meat , the same cut of beef is used here: chuck or short ribs, you might also opt for brisket. The preparation is completed with aromatic herbs and strong-tasting spices like cloves, which will give it a distinctive aroma. The practicality of this pot allows you to keep culinary traditions alive, such as mixed boiled meat from Piedmont , which would require a longer cooking time in a common pot.
Discover other pressure cooker recipes you can prepare at home:

To prepare boiled meat in a pressure cooker, start by cutting the celery stalks in half . Peel the carrots and clean the onion .
For convenience, stick the cloves into the whole onion to make it easier to remove them at the end of cooking . Cut the meat into two pieces and tie it with kitchen twine . For this procedure, follow the guide on the website: how to tie a roast .
In the 6-quart pressure cooker, place the vegetables with the sprig of thyme , the sprig of parsley, and the bay leaf. Finally, add the peppercorns .
Then add the meat . Pour in enough water to cover the ingredients , lightly salt, so you can adjust the seasoning at the end of cooking, then close and seal the pot following the instructions very carefully. Turn the heat to high and bring to pressure. Once you hear the whistle, lower the heat and cook for 40 minutes. Then turn off the heat and let it vent completely.
Once all the steam has been released, you can open the pressure cooker , drain the meat . Remove the twine .
Cut the meat and serve it on a serving plate, making sure to season with coarse salt if you like . The boiled meat in the pressure cooker is ready to be enjoyed .
Boiled meat in a pressure cooker can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days or frozen if you used fresh ingredients. You can filter and preserve the beef broth obtained from cooking, perhaps freezing it in ice cube trays, so you'll have it ready and portioned for any occasion!
If you want, you can use different types of meat to make a mixed boiled meat; in that case, chicken thighs are recommended to give more flavor to the broth. The remaining broth can be filtered and used for other recipes: for a risotto or ravioli in broth.
How to use a pressure cooker?
It’s important to never overfill the pressure cooker. Usually, a mark inside the pot indicates the maximum level: usually 2/3. For foods that increase in volume, like rice, it is advised to never exceed half. Before starting to cook, make sure the lid is properly closed and the valve is shut. Once the pot reaches pressure, you can lower the heat, ensuring the steam release from the valve is as constant and "light" as possible. Additionally, keeping it on low will save energy.
How to open a pressure cooker?
Never open the lid while steam is escaping from the valve. Once cooking is completed, you need to release all the steam by lifting or rotating the valve, and once the pot is no longer under pressure, you can open the lid. Be cautious of the steam jet during the "decompression" phase.
Why cook with a pressure cooker?
A pressure cooker allows food to be cooked at higher pressures, thus reducing cooking times.
How much water in a pressure cooker?
The amount of water should be adjusted based on the cooking times. It is important that it doesn’t completely evaporate during cooking.
What to cook in a pressure cooker?
You can cook potatoes, roasts, legumes, vegetables, broths.
How long do foods cook in a pressure cooker?
Every preparation has different cooking times; compared to traditional recipes, using a pressure cooker reduces cooking times by about half.

