name:
Pasta with Pumpkin Cream and Guanciale
ingredients:
Penne Rigate pasta: 0.7lb(320 g)
Pumpkin: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to be cleaned)
Jowls: 7.1oz(200 g)
Red onions: 1
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)- (to be grated)
Parsley: to taste
Water: ½glass
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pasta with pumpkin cream and guanciale is the autumnal first course we've been waiting for. Lovers of pumpkin pasta , come forward for this decidedly winning combination of pumpkin cream and crispy guanciale. A first course to prepare for your family dinners or for a night with friends. It's impossible to resist the creamy part of this pasta and the flavorful touch of guanciale, cut into strips and perfectly browned! Easy to make, delicious to taste, pasta with pumpkin cream and guanciale will become a staple in your menus from the first bite!
Discover other delicious pumpkin first courses:

To prepare pasta with pumpkin cream and guanciale, first clean and slice the onion . Clean about 1.1 lbs of pumpkin , obtaining 0.95 lbs of pulp to cut into cubes .
In a pan, heat the extra virgin olive oil along with the onion , let it stew, and when the onion is soft, add the pumpkin , let it flavor over medium heat, then salt and pour in the water .
Cover with a lid and cook for about 10 minutes over medium heat, stirring occasionally. When the pumpkin is soft , transfer part of it into a cup .
Blend with an immersion blender to obtain a cream . Pour the cream back into the pan and set aside.
Cook the pasta in salted boiling water . Cut the guanciale into strips , then brown it in a slightly heated pan without adding any fats : it should become crispy.
Thin the cream with pasta cooking water , drain the cooked penne here and add the crispy guanciale .
Toss the pasta over medium heat. Then also add the Parmigiano Reggiano DOP and mix . Plate and serve the pasta with pumpkin cream and guanciale with some fresh parsley .
We recommend consuming the pasta with pumpkin cream and guanciale immediately.
You can use any type of pasta, long or short, even egg pasta like tagliatelle and pappardelle; the sauce is also perfect for gnocchi.
You can replace the onion if you don't prefer it, using a clove of garlic instead.
Instead of guanciale, you can use bacon or sausage.

