name:
Rice with radicchio, beetroot, and persimmon pesto
ingredients:
Whole rice: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Precooked beets: 5.3oz(150 g)
Apple kaki (persimmon): 2.1oz(60 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- in flakes
Mustard: 2tsp(10 g)- in grains
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Radicchio: 7.1oz(200 g)- long
Precooked beets: 1.8oz(50 g)
Walnut kernels: 0.7cup(70 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Rice with radicchio, beetroot, and persimmon pesto is a first course that opens the doors to autumn, enriching our table with a fruity touch that will add a pleasant sweet and sour note to brown rice. This unusual and appetizing mix of ingredients, with its captivating amaranth hues, will reveal new horizons of flavor: we have created a creamy pesto based on radicchio and beetroot, with a strong flavor, softened by the sweetness of persimmon, a delicious fruit with firm flesh. The final result will be a gourmet dish, out of the ordinary, tasty, and genuine!
Take advantage of the autumn season to prepare other first courses with radicchio:
To prepare rice with radicchio, beetroot, and persimmon pesto, start with the pesto: wash, dry, and then roughly cut the radicchio into strips , place them in a tall glass , add the walnuts .

Season with 1.8 oz of Parmigiano Reggiano PDO , oil , salt, pepper, and the pre-cooked beets .
Blend with an immersion blender until you get a homogeneous mixture , add a little water if necessary, and store in the refrigerator. Boil the rice for the time indicated on the package .
Cut the beetroot into slices and then into cubes of about 1/2 inch. Heat a pan with a drizzle of oil and add the beetroot .
Flavor with thyme and sauté over high heat for a few minutes. Finally, with the heat off, add the mustard and a pinch of salt .
Mix and set aside . In the meantime, drain the rice , add a drizzle of oil, mix, and let it cool to room temperature. Once cooled, season it with the radicchio pesto .
Also add the beetroot cubes (keeping a few aside for plating) and mix . Divide the persimmon in half .
Then cut it into pieces . Plate and decorate with the beetroot cubes, persimmon, a few thyme leaves, a pinch of pepper, and Parmigiano Reggiano PDO flakes . The rice with radicchio, beetroot, and persimmon pesto is ready .
The rice with radicchio, beetroot, and persimmon pesto can be stored for a couple of days in the refrigerator.
If you have fresh beets, you can use them after boiling in water: they should be quite firm and not too soft.

