name:
Chocolate Fondant
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(90 g)
Butter: (80 g)
Type 00 flour: 1tbsp(20 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2tbsp(10 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Egg yolks: 1
Vanilla bean: 1- (the seeds)
Butter: to taste
Brown sugar: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low
Note (the cooking time may vary between 13 and 15 minutes)

instructions:
The fondant au chocolat , the chocolate fondant that's easy and quick to prepare, perfect as a Valentine's Day dessert or to surprise your guests any other day of the year! As you dig in with a spoon, you'll discover a melty and creamy texture inside, a true delight to savor until the last bite. You can prepare the fondant au chocolat in advance and bake it at the last moment. With fondant au chocolat , you'll hit the mark with the lucky ones who taste it: after all, the best way to win someone's heart is undoubtedly through their stomach!
Also check out the delectable Valentine's Day Cheesecake to crown your Valentine's Day menu to make at home and try these other delicious cakes:

To make the fondant au chocolat , first coarsely chop the chocolate with a knife, then place it in a bowl for a double boiler, positioning the bowl over a small pot filled with water on the stove . Stir constantly with a spatula to melt it completely, then add the butter . Continue stirring to combine the mixture. Once ready, turn off the heat and set aside. In a bowl, pour the eggs and yolk, then add the powdered sugar and the seeds of the vanilla bean.
Beat the mixture with electric beaters until it is light and fluffy. At this point, pour in the melted chocolate and continue mixing with the beaters to fully incorporate the mixture .
Now add the dry ingredients to the egg mixture: sift the flour and unsweetened cocoa powder into the bowl, then mix with a spatula to incorporate the ingredients .
The batter is ready: take 6 aluminum molds with a 3-inch top diameter and 1.6-inch height, butter the bottom and sides, then dust the inside with brown sugar. Pour the batter, filling the molds 2/3 of the way , then bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 9-10 minutes (the baking time depends on the size of the molds; you can find further instructions in the advice at the end of the recipe). Once baking is complete, immediately remove your cakes from the oven .
Turn the still-warm cakes upside down on a serving plate, being careful not to burn yourself . Finish by dusting the fondant au chocolat with powdered sugar and serve immediately !
It is recommended to consume the fondant au chocolat immediately. You can store the raw cake in the fridge for 1 day covered with plastic wrap or you can freeze it, an excellent solution in case of unexpected guests. Simply put the frozen cakes in the oven and bake for an additional 3-4 minutes.
If you prefer, you can make larger cakes: using 4 molds with a 3.35-inch top diameter and 1.6-inch height, the baking time will be 13-15 minutes at the same temperature. The secret to the success of the fondant au chocolat lies in the baking: since it only takes a few crucial minutes to achieve the "melty center" effect, we recommend baking a test cake to check the oven's heat and ensure the correct baking time.
If you prefer, you can line the molds with granulated sugar, flour, or unsweetened cocoa powder as an alternative to brown sugar.

