name:
Traditional Tiramisu
ingredients:
Ladyfingers: 7oz(200 g)
Coffee: 7.1oz(200 g)- at room temperature
Mascarpone cheese: 1.3cups(300 g)
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Egg whites: 4.2oz(120 g)- (about 4)
Egg yolks: 2.8oz(80 g)- (approximately 4)
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + resting time (1 h)

instructions:
Among the spoon desserts most loved and appreciated all over the world, there is certainly the tiramisu , which has inspired many delicious variants such as Tiramisu with cream . Its origins are uncertain and the variations are really many, but today we want to show you the basic recipe to prepare it. Our traditional tiramisu has all the classic ingredients that cannot be missed to make this dessert: eggs, mascarpone, ladyfingers, and coffee. A simple recipe in preparation and taste, which always conquers everyone. The secret? Obtaining a mascarpone cream dense and sweet to the right point. The ladyfingers soaked in coffee will become a soft base that contrasts perfectly with the taste of the cream. A classic dessert always current, perfect to serve in a pan or in a single-serving version, prepared for us by Frau Knam, a passionate pastry chef who knows how to combine traditional recipes with high culinary techniques!
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!

Photo by: Marianna Santoni
To prepare the traditional tiramisu, first make the pâte à bombe. In a small pot, pour 2.8 oz of sugar with 1.01 oz of water . Heat the syrup over low heat and using a kitchen thermometer, keep an eye on the temperature, which should reach 244°F.
When you have reached the indicated temperature, start whisking the egg yolks with an electric mixer and pour the syrup slowly over the yolks, keeping the mixer running . Continue whisking until the mixture is creamy .
Now add the mascarpone to the yolks with the mixer or with a spatula. Set the mixture aside and pour the egg whites into another bowl. Start whisking them, making sure the beaters are very clean .
As soon as the egg whites are white and frothy, add the remaining 3.5 oz of sugar and continue whisking until you get a firm and stiff consistency . Add one-third of the whipped egg whites to the yolk and mascarpone mixture and mix energetically with the spatula .
Finish adding the remaining egg whites and mix gently from top to bottom until you get a smooth cream . At this point, soak the ladyfingers, one at a time, in the coffee at room temperature .
Gradually arrange them inside a large 10x7.5 inch baking dish, in an orderly manner, so as to cover the entire surface . Now pour half of the cream and level it to completely cover the ladyfingers.
Arrange another layer of ladyfingers soaked in coffee, as done previously . Add the remaining cream and level the surface . Refrigerate for at least an hour.
When ready to serve, sprinkle the tiramisu with unsweetened cocoa powder , covering it entirely . The traditional tiramisu is ready to be cut and enjoyed .
You can store the traditional tiramisu for a maximum of a couple of days, well covered, in the refrigerator.
It can be frozen for about 2 weeks.
For an even more authentic taste, you can add 1.76 oz of marsala to the coffee.

