name:
Pasta with Porcini Mushrooms and Sausage
ingredients:
Egg Tagliatelle pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Sausage: 0.8lb(370 g)
Porcini mushrooms: 10.6oz(300 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 2cups(400 g)
Shallot: 1
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: 0.3cup(70 g)
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
What could be more delicious than a delightful first course of fresh porcini tagliatelle ? For instance, pasta with porcini mushrooms and sausage! A tasty recipe dedicated to lovers of rustic flavors, tossed with a succulent tomato and sausage sauce enriched with the unique aroma of fresh sautéed porcini mushrooms . Similar to the classic boscaiola but without the addition of cream, pasta with porcini mushrooms and sausage is very simple to prepare and will become one of the most requested first courses of this season!
Also try these tasty variations:
To prepare pasta with porcini mushrooms and sausage, first remove the casing from the sausage and break it into pieces with your hands . Clean and chop the shallot . Add the shallot to a pan with a drizzle of oil .
Sauté the shallot for 5-6 minutes, then add the sausage and brown it for a couple of minutes . Deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate completely.
At this point, add the tomatoes, which you have previously crushed , mix well and cook for about 20 minutes on low heat, covered .
Meanwhile, clean the porcini mushrooms: remove the base of the stem and gently brush away any soil residues , then slice them thinly . In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil with a clove of garlic, then add the mushrooms .
Season with salt and pepper and cook on high heat for about 10 minutes. When ready , add the mushrooms to the sausage sauce .
Stir well and season the sauce with chopped rosemary . Cook the tagliatelle in salted boiling water , then drain them into the pan with the sauce .
Toss the pasta, adding a couple of ladles of cooking water and a drizzle of oil . Plate and serve your pasta with porcini mushrooms and sausage immediately !
It's recommended to consume pasta with porcini mushrooms and sausage immediately.
The sauce can be prepared in advance and stored for 1-2 days in the refrigerator.
You can replace fresh porcini mushrooms with dried ones by soaking them for 10 minutes in cold water and adding them directly to the sauce.

