name:
Beetroot dumplings on taleggio fondue
ingredients:
Precooked beets: 1cup(200 g)
Type 0 flour: 1cup(130 g)
Potatoes: 0.75lb(350 g)
Salt: 1tsp
Arugula: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Milk: ½cup(100 g)
Taleggio cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The beetroot dumplings on Taleggio fondue are a first course dish that harmoniously combines flavors, colors, and textures. The fresh beetroot pasta blends the sweet and earthy taste of beetroot, which dyes the dumplings a vibrant ruby color, with the delicacy of potatoes, forming a soft and light dough. The arugula, added in the pan with the dumplings, adds a fresh and slightly spicy note, while the creamy and velvety fondue completes the dish with its intense and enveloping flavor. This recipe is perfect for an elegant dinner or a special occasion where you want to impress with a refined and visually appealing dish.
If you are looking for more recipes with beetroot, don't miss:
Cook the potato in boiling water for about 30 minutes or until soft. Meanwhile, blend the cooked beetroot until you get a smooth mixture .
Mash the potatoes on the work surface , add the beetroot , a pinch of salt, and the flour .
Knead until a dough is formed . Cut the dough into pieces to make it easier to work with.
With a little flour, create cords with a diameter of about 3/4 inch and cut them to form the dumplings . Plunge them into plenty of boiling salted water and cook for a few minutes.
Drain them and transfer them to a pan with a drizzle of oil , add the arugula , and sauté for a few minutes .
Meanwhile, prepare the fondue by placing the milk in a small pot , add the Taleggio cheese , bring to a boil , and let the cheese melt completely.
Pour the fondue onto the bottom of the plate , add the dumplings . Your beetroot dumplings on Taleggio fondue are ready to be served .
We recommend consuming the beetroot dumplings on Taleggio fondue as soon as they are ready, but if there are leftovers, they can be stored in the refrigerator, in a closed container, for 2 days. Reheat them in a pan over low heat, adding a little milk or cream to the fondue to restore creaminess to the dish.
For a lighter version, you can replace the Taleggio with stracchino or crescenza. If you prefer a more intense flavor, add gorgonzola to the fondue.

