name:
Scallops with Bacon and Chestnut Cream
ingredients:
Scallops: 12
Pancetta tesa: 1.8oz(50 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Marjoram: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Chestnuts: 1.4cups(200 g)- boiled
Walnut kernels: ¼cup(30 g)
Shallot: 1
Vegetable broth: 0.8cup(200 g)
Marsala wine: 0.3cup(70 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Apples: 1
Apple cider vinegar: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High
Note + the boiling time of the chestnuts and the preparation of the vegetable broth

instructions:
Scallops are exquisite mollusks ideal for serving as an appetizer during the holidays… instead of the usual gratinated scallops , we propose a combination that will tantalize your guests' palates: scallops with bacon and chestnut cream! A recipe that expertly uses flavors and textures to create a unique and unforgettable taste experience, thanks to the use of both land and sea ingredients. The delicacy of the scallops meets the savoriness of crispy bacon and the sweetness of the chestnut and walnut cream, balanced by a light tangy note from an aromatic apple dice. Perfect for New Year's Eve, scallops with bacon and chestnut cream are a gourmet recipe that will elevate your dinner menu!
Check out these delicious scallop appetizers as well:

To prepare the scallops with bacon and chestnut cream, first make the chestnut cream: melt the butter with a drizzle of oil in a saucepan, then add the finely chopped shallot and let it wilt for a few minutes.
When the shallot has wilted, add the chestnuts (previously boiled or you can use pre-cooked chestnuts) , and the walnuts . Salt and pepper .
Fragrance with thyme leaves and stir, then deglaze with the Marsala wine . Let the alcohol evaporate completely, then pour in the fresh cream .
Finally, cover with vegetable broth . Lower the heat and let it simmer for about 15 minutes, just enough time to soften the walnuts . After this time, transfer the mixture to a blender cup .
Blend with an immersion blender , adding more broth if necessary to adjust the consistency ; you should get a smooth and homogeneous cream . Set aside.
While the chestnuts are cooking, you can prepare the apple: peel it and cut it first into slices , then into sticks and finally into very small cubes . Place the cubes in a bowl and season with salt and a drizzle of oil .
Add a little apple cider vinegar and some marjoram leaves . Stir and set aside.
Move on to the bacon: lay the bacon slices in a pan , then turn on the gentle heat and let them sweat to release the fat and become beautifully crispy, turning them over on both sides . When they are well browned, transfer the bacon slices to paper towels and set aside . Keep the pan with the cooking juices.
Finally, attend to the scallops: remove the muscle to obtain the scallop meat , then pat dry with paper towels and salt .
Place the scallops in the pan where you cooked the bacon, nice and hot . Sear over high heat for less than a minute, then add the butter and sprigs of thyme and marjoram .
Continue cooking by basting the scallops with the melted butter, which will gather the flavor of the herbs and the cooking juices . Cook the scallops only on one side, and when they are well colored , remove them from the pan .
You are ready to plate: spread the chestnut cream on the base of the plate , then place the scallops on top and the apple cubes .
Add a slice of crispy bacon for each scallop and drizzle with some of the cooking juices . Finish with a few thyme and marjoram leaves and serve your scallops with bacon and chestnut cream immediately !
It is recommended to consume scallops with bacon and chestnut cream right away.
The chestnut cream can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
Instead of boiling fresh chestnuts, you can buy pre-cooked ones.
Instead of Marsala, you can use port wine.

