name:
Squid ink risotto with sautéed cuttlefish
ingredients:
Vialone nano rice: 1.67cups(320 g)
Octopi: 10.6oz(300 g)- small, cleaned
Cuttlefish ink: 3 ¼tsp(16 g)
Fish fumet: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
White wine: 1glass
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Cuttlefish are a very versatile ingredient in the kitchen, often starring in numerous delicious dishes, including the renowned squid ink risotto. Today we show you an easy recipe to prepare this risotto at home, adding the cuttlefish in two different ways: cubed in the risotto and sliced and sautéed separately to be added at the end. We are confident that you will fall in love with this dish! Squid ink risotto is a perfect first course to prepare for many occasions, even the most special ones, allowing you to win over your guests with its irresistible flavor. A risotto creamed without butter, but only with oil, just so as not to cover the taste of the cuttlefish but to maintain the same creaminess... also try the version of the Squid ink risotto with shrimp ! Here are other recipes with squid ink not to miss:
Discover more delicious Risotto recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the squid ink risotto, first ensure that the fish broth is hot and that the cuttlefish is thoroughly cleaned. Separate the tentacles from the body and cut about half into pieces and the other half into thin strips .
In a saucepan, pour the oil and a clove of garlic with its skin. Let it infuse, then add the cuttlefish pieces and stir well. Sauté for about 10 minutes , then remove the garlic and add the rice. Toast it over high heat, stirring often .
Add a pinch of salt and deglaze with the white wine . When the alcohol has completely evaporated, cook the rice by adding the hot fish broth . Make sure the rice is always covered, without overdoing the broth.
Meanwhile, pour a drizzle of oil and the cuttlefish strips into a hot pan . Sauté them for 4-5 minutes until they are well browned . Also chop the parsley.
When the rice is almost cooked, about 2 minutes before, add the squid ink ; stir well and adjust the salt if necessary. Add a drizzle of oil to cream the risotto and flavor with a good portion of chopped parsley .
Plate the dish and place the cuttlefish strips in the center . Garnish with chopped parsley , add a drizzle of raw oil, and serve the squid ink risotto piping hot.
We recommend serving the risotto immediately; however, it can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 day.
We recommend using small cuttlefish as they are more tender and cook in just a few minutes. Check out our guide on " How to clean cuttlefish " if yours are not already cleaned; you'll also learn how to extract the squid ink.

