name:
Paccheri with octopus ragù
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Octopus: 1.5lbs(700 g)- (already cleaned)
Carrots: 1
Onions: 1
Celery: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves
Tomato paste: 4tbsp(60 g)
Red wine: 1.8oz(50 g)
Port wine: 1.75oz(50 g)
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 2 h 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Whether for New Year's Eve, for the Christmas Eve dinner, or for many other occasions, paccheri with octopus ragù is a truly amazing first course based on fish! Today we will show you how to prepare it at home to impress all your guests. Just like the classic Bolognese ragù , the typical sauté of carrots, onions, and celery that gives its characteristic flavor will not be missing, but instead of meat, in this case, we used small pieces of octopus. We then deglazed our ragù with both red wine and port, which will give a strong note and make your dish truly unique. An alternative way to cook octopus and to transform it into a perfect pasta sauce! After paccheri with octopus ragù, here are other first course recipes not to be missed:

To prepare the paccheri with octopus ragù, first, take the already cleaned octopus. Separate the head from the body and divide it in half ; then separate the tentacles . The less thick part of the tentacles can be left whole, while the thicker tentacles should be divided in half lengthwise .
Cut everything into small pieces . Proceed to cooking, pour a drizzle of oil into a pan and add previously chopped celery, carrot, and onion . Add a pinch of salt, which will help the vegetables release water and thus prevent burning. Also, add a couple of cloves of garlic, peeled and crushed .
Let the sauté soften nicely, then remove the garlic which will have released its aroma by now. Add the tomato paste . Stir and let it toast .
Once the paste is well toasted, add the octopus , increase the heat and let it brown for about 5 minutes, stirring often. When the octopus begins to curl and the bottom starts to caramelize, deglaze with red wine .
Also deglaze with port , immediately lower the heat and let the alcohol evaporate, scraping the bottom of the pan well , then cover with a lid and cook for at least 2 and a half hours over low heat, adding hot water as needed.
When the sauce is well reduced , you can cook the paccheri, 4 minutes less than the time indicated on the package . Then drain them and transfer them to the pan with the sauce .
Add a ladle of cooking water , toss the pasta well and finish cooking in the pan over high heat. When the paccheri are cooked, turn off the heat and finish with a grind of pepper, chopped parsley, and a drizzle of oil . Plate your paccheri with octopus ragù and serve immediately !
We recommend serving the paccheri with octopus ragù immediately.
The octopus ragù can be prepared a day in advance; it is also possible to freeze it if you have used fresh ingredients.
If you prefer, you can make larger chunks of octopus, just keep in mind that the cooking time will need to be extended.

