name:
Capon roulade with celery root purée
ingredients:
Capon: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- deboned
Thyme: 4sprigs
Rosemary: 4sprigs
Sage: 8leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: to taste
Sage: to taste
White celery: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Brown stock: 1cup(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
When you think of capon, it instantly feels like a celebration! This Christmas, however, instead of serving the classic capon broth or a sumptuous stuffed capon , we want to impress you with a different version: the capon roulade with celery root purée. A main course complete with a typically winter side dish, guaranteed to win applause! These delightful meat rolls are flavored with a simple mixture of aromatic herbs and are cooked in two stages: first in the oven and then in the pan, to create an inviting golden crust. To accompany the capon roulade, we chose the Celery Root Puree with Cream , creamy and delicate, and the brown sauce, dense and rich in flavor... a perfect combination!
To prepare the capon roulade with celery root purée, first make the brown sauce, you can follow our recipe. Then take a capon, deboned at the butcher shop. Singe any feathers with a torch then wash it under water and pat it dry . Separate the thighs from the breast , then debone these as well by removing the central bone and flatten them .
Separate the skin from the breast and cut the breast in half . Chop rosemary, thyme, and sage .
Place the deboned thigh on a cutting board and season it with some of the aromatic mixture , salt , and pepper. Place the breast on top and add more mixture, salt, and pepper.
At this point, roll it up . Do the same for the other thigh . Then wrap them in parchment paper .
Tie them with string, as if they were a roast , and place them in a baking dish . Place a baking dish with some water on the lower rack of the oven to create a steam effect, preheat the oven to 356°F, and place the capon dish on the upper rack. Cook for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the celery root purée. Put a pot full of water on the heat, salt it, and bring to a boil. Then peel the celery root .
Cut it into cubes and gather it in a bowl as you go . When the water starts boiling, immerse the celery root and cook for 10 minutes .
Drain the celery root and transfer it to a tall, narrow container . Add a ladle of cooking water and some oil .
Season with salt, pepper and blend everything with an immersion blender until you get a smooth cream . Then transfer the purée to a saucepan and keep it warm.
After 30 minutes, remove the capon from the oven and discard the string and parchment paper . Place it in a hot pan with a drizzle of oil and sear it well. Then add rosemary and garlic and butter .
As the butter melts, use it to baste and flavor the capon . When it's well seared, turn off the heat and plate. Place the celery root purée at the bottom, then the sliced capon and finally add the hot brown sauce .
We recommend cooking the capon roulade and serving it immediately. It might dry out if stored.
You can use the skin of the capon to enrich a broth.

