name:
Cod in tempura with broccoli
ingredients:
Desalted cod: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Rice flour: 0.6cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 5cups(100 g)
Sparkling water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)- cold
Peanut seed oil: to taste- for frying
Broccoli: 1
Anchovies in oil: 1.1oz(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Red onions: 2
Balsamic vinegar: 1spoonful
Brown sugar: 1spoonful
Bay leaves: 1leaf

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 30 min. of resting the batter in the fridge

instructions:
An appetizer perfect for parties, for all lovers of fried cod : cod in tempura with broccoli. You will see how easy it is to make (with a few precautions) the Tempura , the typical batter from Japanese cuisine used for frying fish and vegetables. A delicate dish, perfectly balanced between softness and crunchiness. To accompany the cod in tempura, we chose broccoli both reduced to cream and left whole, giving color and an additional taste experience to the dish. This appetizer is ideal for preparing a New Year's Eve menu, fish-based, or for Christmas Eve. By varying the vegetables according to the seasons, you will have a perfect appetizer for any occasion!
Discover also:

To prepare the cod in tempura with broccoli, first make the batter. In a bowl, pour the flour, all-purpose flour, and cold sparkling water . Mix with a fork and do not worry if it is not perfectly smooth . Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for about 30 minutes, or while you proceed with other preparations.
Clean the broccoli and separate the florets ; peel the stem well and cut it into cubes. Blanch everything in salted water for 4 minutes , then drain and transfer to ice water .
Meanwhile, prepare a sauté with oil, garlic, and anchovies. Once dissolved, add the drained broccoli . Sauté for another 5 minutes, then remove the garlic clove and transfer the broccoli to a tall and narrow container . Set aside some florets for garnishing the plates and blend the rest, adding a ladle of cooking water until you obtain a cream.
Prepare the caramelized onions. Peel and slice them . Place them in a pan with some oil and add the balsamic vinegar .
Add the brown sugar , a bay leaf , and cook over low heat for 15 minutes. The onions should be well caramelized .
Remove the skin from the cod , remove the bones with tweezers , and cut it into chunks .
Dip the cod in the batter to coat the chunks evenly . Then plunge them into hot oil , a few pieces at a time so as not to lower the oil temperature . Drain them once golden .
Transfer the fried cod to a tray with paper towels . Continue cooking the rest, then plate: place the warm broccoli cream on the bottom, the pieces of cod, and the broccoli florets . Place the caramelized onion on the fish and serve your cod in tempura with broccoli immediately !
We recommend frying the cod in tempura just before serving. The other preparations can be made a few hours in advance. Apart from the batter which must be cold, heat the rest before plating.
With the cod skin, you can make delicious chips: simply clean it well and bake it in the oven!

