name:
Risotto with Champagne, Beetroot and Prawns
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ¾cup(360 g)
Champagne: 1glass
Precooked beets: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Shrimps: 20- red
Stracciatella cheese: ¾cup(200 g)
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
White onions: ½
Tomato paste: 1spoonful
Lime peel: 1
Soy sauce: 4spoonfuls
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Lime juice: 1
Marjoram: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very high

instructions:
The Christmas atmosphere is in the air, and what better way to celebrate Christmas than with an extraordinary and festive dish? Our risotto with champagne, beetroot, and prawns is the perfect recipe for the Christmas Eve menu. This main course, enriched with a beetroot cream, cooked in a delicate shellfish stock and garnished with raw red prawns and stracciatella, is ideal for delighting the palates of your guests during the holidays. Besides its incredible flavor, the risotto stands out for its refined presentation and bright, vibrant colors. Adorn your holiday table with this special risotto with champagne, beetroot, and prawns with a gourmet touch!
Discover more delicious Risotto recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the risotto with champagne, beetroot, and prawns, clean the prawns and save the scraps . Cut the carrot, celery, and onion into small pieces .
Sauté the vegetables with a dash of oil , along with the prawn shells and a tablespoon of tomato paste .
Once toasted, add water to the brim and cover with a lid. Cook for 30 minutes and add salt . Strain the stock and keep it warm.
Season the prawns with oil, salt , pepper, and the zest of one lime . Now cut the precooked beetroot .
Place it in the mixer glass with a ladle of stock and the juice of half a lime. Blend with the immersion blender to obtain a cream .
Prepare the risotto: in a saucepan, toast the rice grains already adding a pinch of salt . Deglaze with a glass of champagne .
Add the stock one ladle at a time , as the liquid is absorbed . Meanwhile, drain the stracciatella to dry it with the help of a fine-mesh strainer .
Once the risotto is almost ready, stir in the beetroot cream , a drizzle of oil, and soy sauce . Then add the juice of half a lime and complete the cooking.
Plate the risotto , garnish with quenelles of stracciatella, raw prawns , a drizzle of oil, lime zest, and marjoram leaves. Serve your risotto with champagne, beetroot, and prawns immediately !
We recommend consuming the risotto with champagne, beetroot, and prawns immediately.

The dry toasting of the rice will keep the grains firmer and crunchier.
As an alternative to marjoram, you can use thyme.

