name:
Wellington of Roast and Cabbage
ingredients:
Rabbit roll: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (with cooked ham)
Puff pastry: 1roll- (rectangular)
Verza (savoy cabbage): 10leaves- (curly quality)
Rosemary: to taste
Bay leaves: to taste
Sage: to taste
Thyme: to taste
White wine: 2.1oz(60 g)
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
White onions: 1
Prosciutto crudo: 6slices
Fine salt: to taste
Butter: 1spoonful
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 4.3cups(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Brandy: 2spoonfuls
Shallot: 1
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 2 h of rest in the fridge

instructions:
Main course of meat for the upcoming Christmas holidays! Wellington of roast and cabbage, a tasty and equally spectacular version of the Beef Wellington ! We used a rabbit roast (chicken will also work!) stuffed with cooked ham, a very tasty roll : it’s a dish that offers a combination of delicate and rich flavors, already appreciated for its elegance. We enriched it with a mushroom champignon duxelles which serves as a delicious layer between the rabbit roll and the flaky outer crust. The creamy sauce obtained from the meat's cooking juices will make this flavorful dish even more special, inviting you to mop up the last bit with bread! Discover the goodness of Wellington of roast and cabbage, the missing dish for a Christmas menu to share with family!
To prepare the wellington of roast and cabbage, start by heating a steel or non-stick pan well. Salt and pepper the piece of meat to taste, then pour a drizzle of oil into the pan and place the rabbit roast to brown at a high flame , turning it often to seal well evenly.
Remember the ends as well. Once well browned, you can add butter , aromatic herbs in the same pan while continuing to cook on a high flame. You can baste it (i.e., with a spoon, take the cooking juices and pour them over the roast's surface).
After a few minutes, add the peeled and chopped onion, the celery cut into chunks, and the carrot also cut into pieces . Let it flavor for a moment, always stirring, then raise the flame and deglaze with white wine . Once the alcohol has evaporated, you can cover with aluminum foil (or a lid suitable for oven cooking) and put in a preheated oven at 338°F for 35-40 minutes.
You can move on to the cabbage: take the leaves, remove the tougher central part without completely breaking the leaves if possible (if not, it will still be fine), then blanch them for a few minutes and transfer them to ice water so they will maintain their vibrant color. Then drain them, pat them gently, and set aside. Proceed to work on the champignon mushrooms to prepare the duxelles : clean the champignons from any present dirt, then start cutting and finely chopping them . Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan .
Sauté the champignon mushrooms over high heat, stirring often so they lose their water. Salt to taste. Then add butter and finely chopped shallot .
Continue cooking over a gentler flame for a few minutes, finally deglaze with brandy . Wait for the alcohol to evaporate, then turn off the heat and set aside . Take the roast out of the oven (keep the cooking juices to blend into a creamy accompanying sauce!).
Pat it dry with a paper towel . Take a sheet of cling film and place it on the lightly damp work surface so it adheres well. Lay the slightly overlapping cabbage leaves on top , place the slices of cured ham on top .
Spread the mushroom duxelles on the ham creating a thin and uniform layer . Place the rabbit roll in the center , then with scissors cut away the excess parts leaving edges (cut taking the cabbage leaves, being careful not to cut the film). Now wrap the whole using the film , tighten well.
Close it like a candy , it will have to be tight and compact. Make a few small holes in the film to let out air bubbles. Let it firm up in the fridge for 2 hours. Take the rectangle of puff pastry, then cut some strips with a pasta cutter for any decorations. Towards one edge of the pastry, place the inverted roll freed from the film ; start rolling until it is in the right direction and completely covered. Also remove the excess pastry at the sides.
Seal the ends well, closing it almost like a package and tucking the edges of the pastry under the roll . Place it on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, brush well with egg yolk beaten with cream . Also place the decoration made with puff pastry strips and brush it as well.
Sprinkle with thyme and flake salt , bake in a preheated convection oven at 338°F for about 35 minutes. Once out of the oven, let the roll rest for 15 minutes before slicing . Serve the wellington of roast and cabbage with the sauce obtained from the meat's cooking juices, bon appétit!
The meat can be cooked the day before and stored in the fridge in an airtight container.
The champignon mushroom duxelles can be stored in the fridge in an airtight container for 1 day.
Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of rabbit roast, you can choose chicken: we recommend not adding cheese besides ham as it is not suitable for this recipe.

