name:
Shrimp ravioli with stracciatella and turnip greens
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Eggs: 2
Fine salt: to taste
Shrimps: 10.5oz(300 g)- Argentinian
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ¾cup(200 g)
Lime: 1
Tomato paste: 1tsp
Cognac: 1.1oz(30 g)
Dill: 1bunch
Carrots: 1
White onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Stracciatella cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Broccoli rabe: 8.8oz(250 g)
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High
Note + 30 minutes of resting time for the fresh pasta

instructions:
If you want to showcase your culinary skills, these shrimp ravioli with stracciatella and turnip greens will be your chance! Nothing surpasses the pleasure of making homemade egg pasta , and ravioli are among the most rewarding first courses to prepare, considering a classic: ricotta and spinach ravioli . In this recipe, however, we aimed to give the ravioli a more refined and elegant shape, the perfect case for the delicious filling that brings together land and sea: they are ideal for a special dinner like Christmas Eve dinner or New Year's Eve! The filling of these ravioli is a fresh and aromatic mix of shrimp, and for the sauce, we chose a reduction of shellfish broth with an intense flavor. The dish is completed with a stracciatella sauce and a turnip greens cream, creating a first course with captivating contrasts. Let yourself be tempted by these special gourmet ravioli!
If you love this type of preparation, also discover:
To prepare the shrimp, stracciatella, and turnip greens stuffed ravioli, start with the fresh pasta: pour the flour and eggs into a bowl, mix first with a fork and then by hand, transferring to the work surface .
Work energetically for about 10 minutes, then form a dough ball, wrap it with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. Clean the shrimp, keeping both the heads and shells (they will be used for the shellfish broth!) , peel and chop the onion, carrot, and celery .
Toast the vegetables in a saucepan with a drizzle of oil , add the shrimp shells and heads and the tomato paste .
Add aroma with a bunch of dill , deglaze with the cognac and flambé (this operation is not essential, if you are not confident with this type of operation you can avoid it and let the alcohol evaporate: it will take a few minutes). Then cover with cold water and cook for 30 minutes.
Chop the shrimp with a knife , place them in a bowl with the ricotta , mix and season with salt and lime zest .

Take the fresh pasta and flatten it with a rolling pin after dividing it into smaller pieces , work one piece at a time keeping the others covered with plastic wrap, so they don't dry out. Roll out the pasta with the pasta machine until you reach a thickness of about 1/8 inch , cut long rectangles and then squares of about 2 inches .
Fill with the shrimp and ricotta filling using a pastry bag . Now close the pasta creating bundles: lift the opposite corners and make them adhere .
Press the pasta well with your fingers to form the bundle . Transfer the ravioli to a tray lined with floured parchment paper .
Strain the broth and reserve a ladle for the turnip greens . Let the rest of the broth reduce on the stove until it forms a thick and concentrated sauce (this will take at least 30 minutes). Cook the turnip greens in a pan with oil, garlic, and a pinch of salt until wilted .
Add half of the turnip greens to the reserved shellfish broth and a drizzle of oil, blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a sauce .
Also blend the stracciatella to obtain a smooth sauce. Cook the bundles in boiling salted water until they float to the surface . Meanwhile, pour the fish broth reduction into a pan .
Drain the ravioli into the pan with the broth reduction and let them soak for a moment. Plate the ravioli: distribute the stracciatella, turnip greens sauce on the plate, then place the ravioli on top and garnish with the whole turnip greens reserved .
Once the ravioli are prepared, we recommend cooking them immediately and, once cooked, it is best to consume them right away; alternatively, leftover ravioli can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 day. If you prefer, you can store the ravioli in the freezer for up to 1 month. Proceed as follows: place the tray with the ravioli in the freezer for a couple of hours or until they have hardened, then place them in food-grade freezer bags. When you want to use them, remove the freezer bag and cook them still frozen by placing them directly into boiling water or broth.
The cooking time for the broth reduction may vary depending on the density of the broth, but it will take at least 30 minutes.

