name:
Green ravioli stuffed with cod
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Spinach: 6.67cups(200 g)
Eggs: 2
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Desalted cod: 0.7lb(300 g)
Potatoes: 0.2lb(100 g)
White onions: 1
Whole milk: ½cup(100 g)
Almonds: 3tbsp(20 g)
Pomegranate: 1
Black pepper: to taste
Dill: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes of pasta resting time

instructions:
The green ravioli stuffed with cod are a delicious first course of fish that revisits in a gourmet key two pillars of our culinary tradition: fresh egg pasta and cod. The Green pasta with spinach gives a lively note of color to the dish, but also a soft texture and a delicate flavor. The mastery of the filling, freely inspired by the recipe for Venetian-style creamed cod , brings a richness of sea flavors to the table, enveloped in extraordinary creaminess. This original variant of fish ravioli is the ideal choice to celebrate Christmas with style and taste, and they will be perfect for your Christmas Eve menu!
To prepare the green ravioli stuffed with cod, start with the fresh pasta: briefly blanch the washed spinach in boiling water . Drain them and let them cool in ice water .
Squeeze the spinach well and pour them into a tall glass , add the eggs and blend everything with an immersion blender until you obtain a homogeneous puree.
On the work surface, pour the flour in a mound, add the spinach puree in the center and a pinch of salt, mix first with a fork then continue by hand, kneading vigorously for about 10 minutes, until you obtain a homogeneous dough ball .
Once ready , let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes covered with plastic wrap. In the meantime, prepare the filling: peel and cube the potatoes .
Peel and slice the onion . In a saucepan, pour a drizzle of oil, the onion, and the potatoes . Let them brown for a few minutes. Meanwhile, cut the desalted cod into pieces .
Add the cod , the milk , a pinch of salt and cook until all the milk reduces and the potatoes are cooked, be careful not to let it stick and stir to flake it. Once ready , cream with a drizzle of oil and set it aside to cool, then transfer the cod to a piping bag.
Roll out the pasta with a pasta machine to a thickness of about 1/8 inch , cut out long rectangles , fill half of the sheet with the filling, squeezing well-spaced balls .
Cover with another sheet of pasta , press the pasta well to adhere, then cut them with a round flower-shaped cutter about 2 inches in diameter . Remove the excess and knead it again .
As you form the green ravioli, place them on a floured tray . Move on to the dressing: chop the almonds and deseed the pomegranate .
Cook the ravioli in plenty of salted water until they float. In a pan, melt the butter with a scant ladle of pasta cooking water and the dill .
Drain the ravioli here and add the pomegranate seeds, sauté for a moment to flavor them. Serve the green ravioli stuffed with cod with their dressing and garnish the plates with chopped almonds and pomegranate .
Once prepared, we recommend cooking the ravioli immediately and, once cooked, it's best to consume them right away; alternatively, it is possible to store leftover ravioli in the refrigerator for a maximum of 1 day. If you prefer, you can store the green ravioli stuffed with cod in the freezer for up to 1 month. You can proceed as follows: place the tray with the ravioli in the freezer for a couple of hours or until they are hardened, then place them in freezer bags. When you want to use them, remove the freezer bag from the freezer and cook them still frozen by dropping them directly into boiling water or broth.
Here we proposed a refined touch for the dressing, perfect for the holidays, alternatively you can dress the ravioli simply with butter and sage.

