name:
Classic Roast Beef
ingredients:
Beef: 4.4lbs(2 kg)- rib steak
Potatoes: to taste
Clarified butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Garlic: 1- head
Rosemary: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Coarse salt: 4.4lbs(2 kg)
Water: to taste
Natural plain yogurt: ¾cup(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Worcestershire sauce: to taste
Tabasco®: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Potatoes: 6
Red Tropea onions: 3
Maldon salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: High
Note + resting time for the meat after cooking (15-20 min.)

instructions:
What kind of meat is used for roast beef? What's the difference between roast and roast beef? We have the answers to these frequently asked questions: the recipe for classic roast beef cooked by the Michelin-starred chef Claudio Sadler. All the secrets to making a perfect roast beef starting from the tying of the meat . Then proceed to choose the best cut, cook it to perfection (obviously in a salt crust), with the valuable help of a thermometer to keep it juicy inside while perfectly cooked outside. This main course is rich in flavor, a classic and a milestone of traditional cuisine to prepare for special dinners or big occasions, like including it in the Christmas menu or New Year’s menu. It will be impossible not to crave a tender slice of this classic roast beef once the scent has spread in the kitchen... especially if you also serve it with baked potatoes, roasted onions, and a delicate homemade How to make sour cream !
Discover also other roast beef recipes:

To prepare the classic roast beef, start by removing the tough parts and excess fat from the rib. Then tie the meat with kitchen string, doubling the string under the piece of meat and making a double knot . Cut off the excess string.
Proceed in the same way, continuing to make loops along the entire length , spacing them 1-1.5 inches apart (this way, the meat will cook evenly and will also be easier to portion once cooked!). Massage the meat with fine salt evenly .
Wash and cut the potatoes into fairly thick slices , slice enough to create a sort of "support" on which to place the meat. Arrange the potato slices in the baking tray , place the rib on top and insert rosemary sprigs and garlic cloves in their skins at the base. This way, the heat during cooking will also go under the meat without the part in contact with the base getting too browned.
Prepare the salt crust by wetting the coarse salt with a little water (just enough to moisten it slightly) , mix . Spread the mixture over the meat .
Try to pack it well on the sides too . Insert the probe into the meat, aiming for the center . Bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F for about 50-60 minutes: the core temperature should reach 113°F-118°F (do not exceed this internal temperature). Once it reaches this temperature, as indicated by the probe, remove from the oven .
Remove the salt covering and transfer the roast beef to another baking dish, being careful not to pierce it. Brush the surface with melted clarified butter , add more rosemary sprigs and a few more garlic cloves in their skins, then bake again at 425°F-445°F for a few minutes to give a nice golden color to the outer part that was protected by the salt.
Meanwhile, in a bowl, pour the juice of half a lemon , the fresh liquid cream , and the plain yogurt .
Season with a drizzle of oil, Worcestershire sauce, a few drops of Tabasco , and salt to taste . Mix with a hand whisk without whipping the mixture. Once the meat is ready, remove the roast beef from the oven and cut off the string, then let it rest for 15-20 minutes before slicing it. After resting, slice the roast beef into slices about 0.5-1 inch thick .
Arrange the meat on serving plates, if desired accompanied by baked potatoes and onions . Brush the slices with the clarified butter taken from the baking dish and season with Maldon salt. Complete with the sauce you have prepared . The classic roast beef is ready to be enjoyed!
It is recommended to consume the classic roast beef as soon as it is ready.
It can be stored for 1-2 days in an airtight container and slightly reheated in a pan as needed, with a drizzle of oil.
To accompany the roast beef, you can make classic oven-baked potatoes, in a pan, or cook onions and potatoes in the oven this way: on a baking sheet, create a layer of coarse salt. Wrap medium-sized potatoes in aluminum foil and place them on the salt. Also place the onions, whole and with the root part sunk into the coarse salt, so they stand upright: bake in a static oven at 390°F for about an hour. Check that both the potatoes and onions are cooked by piercing them with a fork: both will be cooked when the fork encounters no resistance.

