name:
Devil's pizza
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 8cups(1 kg)
Water: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Fine salt: 2tbsp(35 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.25oz(7 g)
Semolina: to taste- (for dusting)
Red peppers: 4 ¼cups(600 g)
Nduja: 2.1oz(60 g)
Walnut kernels: 1.1oz(30 g)
Garlic: 4cloves
Acacia honey: to taste
Smoked paprika: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Calabrian Spianata: 19oz(540 g)
Fior di latte mozzarella cheese: 10.6oz(300 g)
Pecorino cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + about 3 ½ hours total rising time (the cooking time refers to only one pizza)

instructions:
Craving for some pizza ? Let yourself be captivated by the pizza with pepper cream and spianata, an irresistible creation made for us by Daniele Uditi, an Italian chef and renowned pizzaiolo in the USA and owner of Pizzana in Los Angeles. Known for his innovative interpretations of Neapolitan pizza , Uditi offers us a bold variation of the classic Diavola pizza , where tradition and creativity meet. The base is enriched with a velvety sweet pepper cream, made even more delicious by the addition of a touch of spicy nduja, a hint of smoked paprika, walnuts, and a drizzle of honey. To complete, a generous layer of finely sliced Calabrian spianata for an additional explosion of taste and spiciness that seduces the palate. Perfect for those who love bold and strong flavors, the pizza with pepper cream and spianata will make you dream from the first bite!
Discover more homemade pizza recipes here:
Discover more delicious Pizza recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the pizza with pepper cream and spianata, start with the dough: in a bowl, pour the all-purpose flour and 2 1/3 cups of water . Knead vigorously by hand until completely absorbed . Let it rest for an hour at room temperature covered with plastic wrap.
Meanwhile, clean the peppers by removing the stem, seeds, and inner filaments, then cut them into thin strips . Transfer the sliced peppers to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, season with 2 cloves of garlic , oil, salt , and pepper. Bake in a preheated static oven at 482°F for 10 minutes.
Remove from the oven , discard the garlic cloves and let cool slightly. Transfer the cooked peppers to a blender, add 2 raw garlic cloves and the nduja .
Flavor with paprika , acacia honey , and a drizzle of olive oil .
Blend with an immersion blender , then add the walnut kernels and blend again to obtain a creamy consistency . Set aside the pepper cream.
Dissolve the crumbled yeast in the remaining 3 1/2 tablespoons of water , stirring with a spoon . Add the yeast and water mixture to the dough .
Start kneading vigorously , then add the salt and continue kneading to incorporate it evenly .
Transfer the dough onto a work surface and continue kneading until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous, non-sticky dough . Let it rest for 30 minutes at room temperature, on the work surface, covered with the bowl .
After this time, divide the dough into 6 pieces of about 8 3/4 oz each . Give reinforcement folds and shape into a round form .
Ball the dough pieces to obtain smooth balls , then place them in a proofing container . Allow to rise at room temperature (or in the oven with the light on) until doubled, about 2 hours. Slice the fiordilatte cheese .
Also finely slice the Calabrian spianata . Retrieve the risen dough balls and spread them out with your hands on a lightly floured work surface, stretching the dough with your fingertips .
Stretch the dough ball until it reaches a diameter of about 12 inches . Spread the pepper cream on the surface , then season with grated pecorino and pieces of fiordilatte .
Complete with the slices of spianata . Bake the pizza on a pizza stone, in a preheated static oven at 482°F for about 8-10 minutes, on the top shelf of the oven. Remove from the oven and serve your pepper cream and spianata pizza hot, garnishing with fresh basil leaves !
It is recommended to consume the pizza with pepper cream and spianata immediately.
The pizza dough, once risen, can also be frozen, preferably divided into portions, and stored in a freezer bag. Subsequently, just let your portion thaw at room temperature and proceed as per the recipe.
You can substitute the pecorino with the same amount of Parmigiano Reggiano for a milder flavor.

