name:
Sausage and Beans
ingredients:
Sausage: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Dried Borlotti beans: 1cup(200 g)
Yellow onions: 2.5oz(70 g)
Red wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Tomato purée: 2.1cups(500 g)
Rosemary: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste-
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste-

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus the soaking time for the beans (8 hours)

instructions:
They were often the co-stars in the western-style films of the inseparable duo Bud Spencer & Terence Hill. We're talking about another equally unbeatable duo on the table: sausage and beans! This rustic and tasty dish evokes the rich and hearty dishes of the past, whose secret is undoubtedly the simplicity of flavors and ease of preparation. This succulent dish is perfect for moments when you need a load of energy and taste! The intense aroma and its rich sauce, which at times might remind you of sausages in sauce , necessitating the inevitable dipping with a crunchy loaf, make sausage and beans a perfect comfort food...in perfect western mood!
Discover also:
To prepare sausage and beans, start by soaking the borlotti beans for 8 hours . The next day, drain the beans, rinse them, and then place them in a large pot , cover with cold water , and bring to a boil. As soon as the water reaches temperature, lower the heat to a simmer and cook for about 50 minutes; salt only at the end of cooking.
Meanwhile, peel and chop an onion, then add it to a pan with the oil and cook over low heat for 6-7 minutes. Then add the sausages and let them brown for 3-4 minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent burning the bottom . Deglaze with the wine , until the alcohol has completely evaporated.
Add the rosemary sprigs and tomato puree . Season with salt and pepper and cook over low heat for 35-40 minutes. After the indicated time, drain the cooked beans .
Add them to the sauce, continuing to cook for another 10-15 minutes , allowing the flavors to blend well . At this point, your dish of sausage and beans is ready. Add some chopped rosemary, a drizzle of raw oil, and serve !
Sausage and beans can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days, just heat before serving. If you used fresh ingredients, you can also freeze everything!
Cook the beans just long enough to soften them without them falling apart. If you want to use pre-cooked beans, simply use about double the indicated amount and continue cooking in the sauce! Add some chopped chili to the onion sauté for a spicy result!

