name:
Chocolate Pudding
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1.1cups(250 g)
Dark chocolate: 2.5oz(70 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Butter: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Cornstarch: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Amaretti cookies: 0.5oz(16 g)
Dark chocolate: to taste- in flakes
Pomegranate: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 3 hours of rest

instructions:
Chocolate pudding is a delicious homemade dessert with timeless flavors. This spoon dessert withstands culinary trends, it's an evergreen in DIY pastry, and it's easy to make. Our recipe requires just a few minutes of cooking and then directly into the fridge to set in decorated molds, which will give a refined shape to the puddings . To complete the masterpiece, dedicate yourself to a tasty and captivating decoration that also includes a crunchy note. We chose aromatic amaretti and a handful of pomegranate seeds that, besides adding a tart touch, will color the plate with a beautiful amaranth hue! Come and discover how easy it is to make chocolate pudding at home and try other tasty variations:
To prepare the chocolate pudding, heat the milk in a saucepan and bring it to just below boiling point over medium heat. In another pot, melt the butter and add the sugar .
Stir with a whisk to combine . Roughly chop the chocolate with a knife , and add it to the pot with the butter . Melt over medium heat, stirring with a hand whisk.
When the mixture is completely fluid, add the sifted cornstarch and incorporate it with the whisk. This way, no lumps will form. As the final step, slowly pour in the hot milk , stirring with the whisk . Cook the pudding for a few minutes until it starts to thicken. Remove from the heat as soon as it begins to set: it will thicken completely as it cools.
Moisten 2 pudding molds of 5 fl oz (150 ml) each and immediately pour the mixture inside . Fill the mold halfway, crumble 1 amaretto into each , and then cover with the rest of the pudding .
Let it cool at room temperature , cover with the mold lids , then place in the refrigerator for at least 3 hours. Afterward, remove the lids .
Invert the chocolate pudding onto a plate and serve, decorating the surface with crumbled amaretti, chocolate shavings, and pomegranate seeds , for a touch of color .
Store the chocolate pudding in the refrigerator for 3-4 days, covered with plastic wrap.
Instead of amaretti, you can also use meringues, which will have the same effect of adding a crunchy note along with the creaminess of the pudding. You can also follow the same traditional procedure without adding the amaretti. You can flavor the pudding with a few tablespoons of amaretto liqueur or Cointreau. Instead of the classic pudding molds, you can also use silicone or aluminum muffin cups. In this case, brush the surface with a little vegetable oil before pouring the pudding to make it easier to remove when ready.

