name:
Apple Plumcake
ingredients:
Red Delicious apples: 13.4oz(380 g)- (about 2 medium)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Brown sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Vegetable oil: 7.1tbsp(100 g)
Orange juice: 0.4cup(100 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2 medium)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp
Brown sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 10

instructions:
The morning is golden, but how hard it is to accommodate the hammering sound of the alarm clock. The aroma of a good homemade aromatic and soft cake waiting for us on the kitchen table could be a good reason to get up more willingly! With this spirit, we prepared the apple plumcake, a comforting dessert for the gloomiest autumn and winter days... but also a perfect snack to share with friends along with a cup of hot chocolate or steaming tea! Dive into the softness of the apple plumcake and discover other delicious variants like the chocolate plumcake or the Whole Wheat Plumcake
.
If you love apple desserts, also try the butterless apple cake and the apple muffins!
To prepare the apple plumcake, wash and halve the apples , then remove the seeds and core . Cut 1 and a half apples lengthwise ,
this way it will be easier to cut them into regular cubes of about 0.4 inches . Put the apple pieces in a bowl, add 1/4 cup of brown sugar and the juice of one squeezed and filtered orange .
Stir and set aside . Meanwhile, in a bowl, pour the eggs, 1/2 cup of brown sugar , and salt ,
work for a couple of minutes with an electric mixer , then add the vegetable oil and continue to work to combine everything .
Sift the flour and baking powder into the bowl, also add the cinnamon and continue to work with the electric mixer
to obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture . Add the apples that you had marinated with sugar and orange juice and mix with a spatula to combine them into the batter .
Butter and flour a plumcake mold and fill it with the batter. Using a mandoline, slice the remaining half apple into slices about 1/8 inches thick (19-20). Decorate the top of the plumcake with the apple slices , covering the entire surface.
Sprinkle with the brown sugar and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40 minutes on the middle rack. Once ready, take your apple plumcake out of the oven and let it cool slightly. Then remove it from the mold and slice it to enjoy all its goodness!
The apple plumcake can be stored for 3 days at room temperature, covered with a cloche. It can be frozen after baking.
You can enrich the plumcake with coarsely chopped dried fruits like walnuts, hazelnuts, or almonds, or with chocolate chips.

