name:
Potato pie with sausage and mushrooms
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Eggs: 4- medium
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 10 ½tbsp(65 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sausage: 9oz(250 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 3 ½cups(250 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
White wine: 2.1oz(60 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 1sprig- to be chopped
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Breadcrumbs: ¼cup(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.4oz(10 g)
Butter: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
In Neapolitan cuisine, the gateau , or as they say in Naples, the gattò, is a second course that gathers the ends of sausages and cheeses that tend to accumulate in the fridge. Today, however, we thought of stuffing it with a rich autumn seasoning, thus transforming the great classic into a new and fresh version. It's the potato pie with sausage and mushrooms, a succulent second course capable of warming the body but also the heart, with its indescribable goodness. After all, let's face it, we've always seen them together and loved them: sausage and mushrooms and sausage and potatoes . This time, however, we thought of moving from the couple to the trio sausage+mushrooms+potatoes and found out it really wins over everyone! If this autumn, and not only, you don't know what to prepare, we have the recipe for you, try the potato pie with sausage and mushrooms!
To prepare the potato pie with sausage and mushrooms, start with the potatoes. Immerse them in a large pot full of cold water , turn on the stove and from the moment of boiling, wait 30-50 minutes, depending on the size. Always do the fork test: if the prongs go in easily, they are cooked. Meanwhile, take care of the mushrooms: remove the base and clean the stem and cap with a brush or a damp cloth to remove any soil residues .
Then slice thinly and set aside . Peel the sausages and crush them with the back of the knife .
In a pan, pour a little oil along with a garlic clove, add the crumbled sausage and sauté for a few minutes . When the meat is well browned, remove the garlic and deglaze with white wine .
Wait for the alcohol to evaporate before collecting the sausage with a spoon: transfer it to a bowl and set aside temporarily . In the cooking base, add another drizzle of oil, then the mushrooms and sauté them for a moment . Add a pinch of salt, waiting for the liquids to come out; when they are about to dry up completely, add the sausages to flavor .
Sauté for another moment to dry the base well , then turn off and sprinkle with chopped rosemary . Mix and transfer to a bowl .
At this point, the potatoes will be cooked: drain them, let them cool for 10 minutes before peeling them, still warm, making it easier to remove the skin . Mash them with a potato masher (you can also do it with a fork if you don't have one, but the result will be more granular) . Add the eggs ,
the grated Parmesan, salt, and pepper . Knead briefly with your hands and check the consistency of the dough: if too dry, add a little milk; if too soft, add more Parmesan. Proceed to the composition. Butter and sprinkle with breadcrumbs a 12x8 inch baking dish
and place half of the dough , compact it with wet hands. Then the mushrooms with the sausages and the diced caciocavallo cheese .
Cover with the remaining part of the potato cream and prepare a mix of breadcrumbs and Parmesan to sprinkle on the surface. Add a few pats of butter and bake in a hot oven at 350°F for about 40 minutes + a few minutes of grill to brown the surface. Here is your potato pie with sausage and mushrooms, enjoy your meal .
You can store the potato pie with mushrooms and sausages for a couple of days at most, keeping it well covered with plastic wrap in the fridge. It is not recommended to store the raw dough. Sausages and mushrooms can be prepared in advance. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of caciocavallo, you can use other cheeses such as fontina or white or smoked scamorza. Be very careful not to over-salt because the sausages and caciocavallo will release a lot of flavor. As an alternative to yellow potatoes, you can use red ones and you can scent with thyme or parsley to give a fresher aroma instead of rosemary. Mash the potatoes while they are still hot, otherwise, the starch will cool and become more resistant.

