name:
Golden milk
ingredients:
Water: ½cup(130 g)
Powdered turmeric: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Black pepper: 1pinch
Milk: (150 g)
Wildflower honey: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 1 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
At GialloZafferano, we are always very attentive to new food trends. Previously, we had already covered the Acai bowl , the new "craze" coming from the United States. Among the list of superfoods, besides acai, goji berries, or black garlic, to name a few, turmeric finds its very own space as the star of the popular golden milk . It is a drink made from turmeric, plant-based milk (we used Almond milk ), and honey, therefore considered a valuable nourishment for our body that benefits from curcumin. This element found in the turmeric root seems to have numerous virtues, which is why it has made golden milk, as it is known in Italy, such a famous product. However, in South Asian countries, golden milk has been known and passed down for generations. It is part of Ayurvedic philosophy, which aims to achieve a psychophysical balance through nutrition. This delicious beverage can be consumed hot for breakfast, for example, transforming into the perfect fuel for our body, maybe accompanied by a nice glass with a slice of a colorful and fluffy Gluten-free marble bundt cake ! Now that we've told you about it, all that's left is for you to try preparing a nice cup of this golden milk. In the summer, you can also try the version on a Golden milk ice cream , cool and delicious!
To prepare golden milk, you can start with the turmeric paste. Pour the water into a small pot along with a pinch of black pepper and bring to a boil. As soon as the water is at temperature, turn off the heat and add the turmeric powder .
Stir continuously until you get a thick and grainy paste . Finally, transfer the turmeric paste into a jar to store it .
Now proceed to prepare your cup of golden milk. In a small pot, bring the plant-based milk of your choice to almost a boil , transfer it to a jar , and add a teaspoon of turmeric paste .
Then sweeten with honey and close the jar with the lid. Since the milk will still be very hot, wrap a cloth around the jar so you won't burn yourself and shake vigorously . Here is your golden milk ready !
Turmeric paste can be stored in the fridge for up to a month, provided it is kept in a sealed jar, preferably one with a gasket. Instead, it is advisable to consume the prepared golden milk within a few days at most.
Adding pepper seems to increase the bioavailability of turmeric, so just add a pinch or avoid it if you prefer. Ayurvedic philosophy teaches that golden milk should be consumed in the evening before going to bed, but we especially recommend it for breakfast! Instead of honey, you can sweeten your golden milk with agave syrup or stevia. However, if you prefer, you can also enjoy this delicious beverage plain!

