name:
Gratinated Broccoli
ingredients:
Broccoli: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- to clean
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- to grate
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.9oz(25 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(25 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Broccoli are the protagonists of many tasty recipes: Broccoli and Ricotta Parcels , pasta dishes , Broccoli Flans with Goat Cheese Sauce , and creamy soups that showcase the versatility and flavor potential of these vegetables. Here, we present them in their most traditional form: gratinated broccoli, a side dish that is as simple as it is appetizing, also excellent in the version with cauliflower and perfect for your winter menus. This preparation enhances the bold flavor of broccoli by contrasting it with a smooth and aromatic béchamel sauce that envelops them in a creamy embrace. Gratinated broccoli is a rustic and quick dish based on vegetables , perfect for cold season menus.
If you'd like to try a lighter version, then try our pan-fried broccoli or the Broccoli, cauliflower and Belgian endive salad .
To prepare the gratinated broccoli, start with homemade béchamel sauce: melt the butter in a saucepan over low heat . Add the flour all at once and cook for one minute, being careful not to let the bottom stick, stirring with a spoon. Pour the room-temperature milk in three additions .
Thicken by stirring with a whisk , you should obtain a thick, lump-free sauce. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg . Trim the broccoli to obtain the florets and wash them.
Blanch the florets in salted water for 6 minutes , then drain them in a bowl of ice water . Pat the broccoli dry .
Pour some béchamel sauce on the bottom of a baking dish , add a first layer of broccoli and more béchamel sauce .
Create a second layer with the remaining broccoli and béchamel sauce, top with grated cheese . Bake in a preheated static oven at 400°F (200°C) for 17 minutes, then switch to the grill setting at 450°F (230°C) for 4-5 minutes. Serve the gratinated broccoli hot .
Store the gratinated broccoli in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. It is possible to freeze them and then thaw them directly in the oven if you used fresh ingredients.
For those who love a crunchy touch, just sprinkle some bread crumbs on the surface of the pan before baking. Do not throw away the broccoli stem but use it to prepare a vegetable broth.

