name:
Susanna Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- cold
Sugar: 0.8cup(150 g)
Eggs: 1
Egg yolks: 1
Baking powder: 1 ¾tsp(8 g)
Egg yolks: 4
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1.6cups(400 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Dark chocolate 50%: 5.3oz(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.7cup(150 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Honey: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the Susanna cake, start with the pastry. In a bowl, pour the flour, the baking powder , the cubed butter , and the sugar .
Knead with your hands until you get a crumbly mixture, then add the eggs and knead again with your hands .
When the mixture begins to take shape, transfer it to a surface and knead it quickly with your hands until you get a smooth dough . Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the fridge for about 30 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the cream. In a bowl, pour the egg yolks and sugar and beat them with an electric beater . When they are light and fluffy, add the well-drained ricotta .
Continue to work with the whisk to incorporate the ricotta. Heat the butter for 30 seconds in the microwave and add it to the mixture . Stir again to incorporate it into the cream , then store it in the fridge. Retrieve the pastry and roll it out with a rolling pin on a lightly floured surface .
You should obtain a uniform thickness of about 1/8 inch . Then transfer the pastry inside a 9.5-inch mold and make it adhere well. Then cut off the excess dough to leave an edge of 3/4-1 inch . Place in the fridge for 30 minutes. This step will help maintain the shape during baking.
At this point, transfer the cream inside and level it with a spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40 minutes.
After 40 minutes, remove the cake from the oven and let it cool. Meanwhile, prepare the coating: finely chop the dark chocolate . Pour the cream into a saucepan .
Add the butter , the honey , and heat it. As soon as it reaches a simmer, turn off the heat and pour it over the chocolate .
Stir with a spatula until you get a glossy and homogeneous mixture . Let it cool slightly, stirring occasionally, and pour it in the center of the cake .
By slightly tilting the cake , you will ensure that the ganache covers it entirely . Place in the fridge for a couple of hours before serving it .
The Susanna cake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
Don't worry if the cake puffs up during baking. It will deflate as it cools, creating a dip for the ganache.

