name:
White Ragù Arancini
ingredients:
Vialone nano rice: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Water: 5cups(1200 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)- cold
Saffron: 0.015oz(0.45 g)- (3 sachets of 0.15 g each)
Fine salt: to taste
Ground beef: 1.8oz(50 g)
Ground pork: 1.8oz(50 g)
Peas: ½cup(80 g)
Celery: 1
Carrots: 1
Yellow onions: 1
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
White wine: 1.4oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Caciocavallo cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Water: 1.4cups(340 g)- cold
Fine salt: 1pinch
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Note + resting and cooling times

instructions:
White ragù arancini are a delicious variation of the famous rice arancini , a symbol of Sicilian cuisine and the subject of a historical, unsolved linguistic debate between arancini and arancine . What is certain is that everyone agrees on the timeless goodness of these fried delights. In this recipe, the classic tomato meat ragù is replaced with a savory white ragù, also enriched with tender peas that add a touch of sweetness. For the filling of these crunchy delicacies, we chose cubes of caciocavallo cheese, known for its irresistible melting effect during cooking. Famous as long-tradition street food, arancini are perfect both as an appetizer and as a main course. Each bite is an explosion of Mediterranean flavors: soft saffron rice, the enveloping white ragù and sweet peas, all balanced by the creaminess and strong flavor of caciocavallo cheese.
Discover here more appetizing rice arancini recipes:

To prepare white ragù arancini, start by boiling the rice in 5 cups of salted boiling water , so that once cooked, the water is completely absorbed (this ensures that the starch remains in the pot, giving you very dry and compact rice). Cook for about 15 minutes. Meanwhile, grate 3.5 oz of caciocavallo cheese and cut the remaining 1.75 oz into cubes for the filling. Pour the saffron into a small bowl .
Add a little hot water and stir until a homogeneous mixture is obtained . Once the rice is ready and has absorbed all the liquid, incorporate the saffron dissolved in water . Stir to combine .
Then stir in the butter in pieces and the grated caciocavallo cheese and stir one last time . Pour the rice onto a large, low tray .
Level it with the back of a spoon , then cover it with plastic wrap to cool completely ; the wrap will prevent the surface of the rice from drying out. Let the rice rest for a couple of hours out of the fridge. Meanwhile, prepare the ragù filling: chop the celery, carrot, and onion .
In a pan, pour a dash of oil, add the chopped vegetables for the soffritto and let them stew for 5 minutes over low heat until soft. At this point, add the ground meat ; let it brown over high heat.
Then deglaze with wine . Season with pepper and salt .
Cook over low heat with a lid for at least 15 minutes. Halfway through cooking, add the peas (if necessary, you can add a little hot water, the ragù should be thick and not liquid). Once the ragù is ready, season with the grated cheese and stir. Set aside to cool .
Once the rice has completely cooled (it will take at least a couple of hours), you can form the arancini. To help with the composition, keep a bowl full of water nearby so you can wet your hands and better handle the rice. Take a couple of tablespoons of rice at a time, press the mound in the center of your hand to form a hollow and place a teaspoon of white ragù filling inside, then add a few cubes of caciocavallo cheese . Close the base of the arancino with rice .
Shape it into a pointed form . Place the arancini on a tray as you go . When they are all ready, prepare the batter: in a bowl, pour the flour, a pinch of salt, and the cold water in a thin stream .
Mix thoroughly with a whisk to avoid lumps . Then dip the arancini into the batter, one at a time , making sure to cover them completely .
Roll them in breadcrumbs and place them on a tray . In a saucepan, heat the oil and bring it to 338°F, then fry one arancino at a time , or at most 2 to not lower the oil temperature.
When they are golden brown, drain them and place them on a tray lined with paper towels . Enjoy the white ragù arancini hot !
Cooked white ragù arancini can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
If you have used all fresh ingredients, you can freeze them before cooking and fry them directly from frozen: in this case, it is preferable to make them a little smaller to ensure even cooking.
As an alternative to caciocavallo, you can use provolone or well-drained mozzarella.

