name:
New England Clam Chowder
ingredients:
Clams: 6.6lbs(3 kg)
Red onions: 3oz(80 g)
Carrots: 0.7cup(80 g)
Celery: ½cup(80 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Potatoes: 1lb(450 g)
Thyme: 4sprigs
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Bread: 4- bread rolls like rosettes
Smoked pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The New England clam chowder is a delicious creamy soup made with clams and potatoes, popular in the northeastern United States. However, it seems that this tasty soup originated in France and, passing through Great Britain, reached the shores of Canada and then New England thanks to the settlers who crossed the ocean. Originally, the New England clam chowder was part of the "poor" culinary tradition, being consumed as a one-dish meal by fishermen's families: on the Atlantic coast, clams were plentiful and considered a staple food, along with cod, potatoes, and corn, which were not lacking in the traditional recipe. Over time, this dish has also spread to the chicest restaurants, and numerous variants have been produced (for example, some recipes include crab and lobster meat). Our version of the New England clam chowder is a simple and tasty recipe, enriched with cream and bacon. In the United States, it is served in a hollowed-out bread, which is eaten along with the soup, and we present it to you in this version!
To prepare the New England clam chowder, start by cleaning the clams: soak them for about an hour in a basin full of water and coarse salt to allow any impurities to purge . After the necessary time, drain them very well and rinse them; heat a large pan with a couple of tablespoons of olive oil and two cloves of garlic , then add the clams and
let them open over high heat for about ten minutes, covered with the lid . Once the clams have fully opened, filter the liquid they released during cooking and set it aside; then shell all the clams and place them in a bowl (5-6).
Finely chop the celery, onion, and carrot, then sauté them over low heat in a large pot with a little oil ; when the sauté is ready, add the diced bacon . Cook everything for a couple of minutes, stirring occasionally ,
then add the potatoes , which you have previously washed, peeled, and diced; adjust the salt. Finely chop the thyme and add it to everything, then also add two bay leaves
and the clam juice . Continue cooking over moderate heat until the potatoes are cooked, then remove the bay leaves and add the cream . Stir to mix all the ingredients well, and continue cooking for a couple of minutes.
At this point, turn off the heat and blend everything with an immersion blender . Add the shelled clams , adjust the salt if necessary, then prepare the rolls by removing the top part with a knife and removing the crumb inside. Fill each roll with a generous ladle of New England clam chowder and serve everything hot: enjoy your meal!
Store the New England clam chowder in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 2-3 days. It is possible to freeze the soup.
When preparing the potatoes, we recommend cutting them into cubes all of the same size to ensure even cooking. If you prefer, to add a touch of color and extra flavor to the New England clam chowder, add a tablespoon of chopped parsley before serving!

