name:
Apple Puff Pastries
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 11.3oz(320 g)- rectangular
Granny Smith apples: 2
Peach jam: 5tbsp(70 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Apple puff pastries are incredibly quick to make: just a few ingredients, crispy puff pastry, and thinly sliced apples. To make this easy and quick dessert even more delicious, they are covered with peach jam. Puff pastry, combined with summer or winter fruit, always surprises with its sweetness and ease of preparation. There are many winning combinations: with Peaches in Puff Pastry or apricots, or with custard as in the easy puff pastries . With apples, besides this recipe, you can create lovely roses , inviting Apple Puff Pastry Tarts , or the original apple puff pastry donuts . Serve apple puff pastries with a good coffee, cappuccino, or fruit juice, and you'll taste the goodness!
To prepare apple puff pastries, you can peel the apples or wash them to use with the skin. Cut them in half , remove the core, creating a deep hole with a knife and scoop out with a teaspoon.
Then cut into very thin slices about 1/8 inch thick . To prevent the apples from browning, place them in a bowl containing cold water and the juice of half a lemon. Put the peach jam in a small saucepan, add the water and bring to a boil over low heat, stirring with a kitchen spatula for 2 minutes .
Turn off the heat and strain the mixture you obtained through a fine-mesh strainer to make the jam creamier . Roll out the puff pastry on the work surface and cut it into 4 rectangles measuring 4x6 inches .
Place 6-7 apple slices on each pastry, slightly overlapping them, leaving a border of about 1/2 inch around the edges . Once finished , brush the apples with half of the peach jam .
In a small bowl, beat the egg yolk with a little water (13-14) and brush the edges of the pastry .
Place the prepared puff pastries on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake in a preheated static oven at 350-375°F for 10-12 minutes (or at 320-355°F for 7-8 minutes if using a fan oven). When they are cooked, take them out of the oven, sprinkle them with the remaining peach jam and let them cool. Finally, you can serve and enjoy your apple puff pastries .
You can keep the apple puff pastries covered with a glass dome for up to 3-4 days. Freezing is not recommended.
To prepare the puff pastries, we recommend buying apples that are not too big, considering that the space for laying them out is about 2.5-2.75 inches, which is the ideal length of an apple slice. Use crispy apples suitable for baking, such as renette or Granny Smith.

