name:
Oatmeal Pancakes
ingredients:
Eggs: 2oz(55 g)- (about 1 medium)
Oat flour: 1 ½cup(160 g)
Rolled oats: ¼cup(20 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(5 g)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Bananas: 0.5lb(215 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Mascarpone cheese: ½cup(100 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Have the sweet American breakfast pancakes, pancakes , quick and delicious, also won you over? Don't miss our version of oatmeal pancakes, a wholesome and tasty variant that will make your mouth water at first sight and won't make you miss the classic pancake recipe. Instead of the traditional maple syrup, as per the original recipe, we sweetened the pancakes with caramelized bananas that will add an enticing and energetic note to your breakfast! From now on, your morning will start with a boost thanks to these delicious oatmeal pancakes!
Come and discover more delicious breakfast recipes:
To prepare the oatmeal pancakes, start by whisking the egg with the sugar using an electric mixer . Once you have a frothy mixture, slowly pour in the milk and continue whisking until fully incorporated .
Mix the all-purpose flour with the baking powder and sift it into the mixture using a sieve , then add the oat flour and continue to mix the batter .
Finally, add the rolled oats . The batter is ready to be cooked . Heat the pan and lightly grease it with a bit of butter .
When the pan is hot, pour one or two tablespoons of batter and shape it into a pancake . Cook for 3-4 minutes and then gently flip them and cook for another 2-3 minutes until golden brown .
Set the pancakes aside and prepare the caramel. Pour the sugar into a saucepan with a thick bottom and add about 1.7 oz of water .
Bring to a boil over low heat until it turns amber. In the meantime, peel the bananas and slice them into rounds about 0.4 inches thick .
Place the pancakes on a plate and garnish with mascarpone . When the caramel has colored , turn off the heat and dip the bananas .
Ensure they are well coated with caramel , then place them on the pancakes . Your oatmeal pancakes are ready to be enjoyed .
It is recommended to consume the oatmeal pancakes immediately, or store them in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day without the caramelized banana topping. Freezing is not recommended. The batter can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for up to 12 hours.
The addition of all-purpose flour helps the pancakes hold their shape during cooking, but you can also try using whole wheat or spelt flour by adjusting the quantities to achieve the right batter consistency.
You can also accompany the pancakes with maple syrup or honey and nuts.

