name:
Beef Tartare
ingredients:
Beef rump: 7.8oz(220 g)
Shallot: 1
Salted capers: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Pickles: 2
Dijon mustard: 1spoonful
Egg yolks: 2
Parsley: 1tuft
Tabasco®: to taste
Worcestershire sauce: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Serving: 2
Cost: High

instructions:
Beef tartare is a classic raw meat dish that never goes out of style! We present it in the typical version with the egg yolk, ideal as a second course. The main characteristic of beef tartare is that it is served with the condiments on the side, so each guest can mix them in at the moment, choosing based on their own tastes. For the same reason, this dish is often prepared at the table in restaurants so that the customer can directly specify their preferences! The choice of quality ingredients is fundamental, starting from the cut of meat to the freshest eggs. After that, you can decide to enrich the steak tartare with various ingredients, the most traditional being mustard, capers, pickles, shallots, and parsley. You just need to follow our recipe or create your own personalized beef tartare... it will surely be delicious!
Also, try these tartare and carpaccio recipes:

To make the beef tartare, first, clean the meat from any nerves and fatty parts, then cut it into strips and then into half-inch cubes . Those who prefer a finer texture can chop the meat with the tip of a knife .
Transfer the meat to a bowl and season with salt , pepper, oil , and Tabasco sauce .
Add the Worcestershire sauce and mix . Now peel and chop the shallot .
Also chop the desalted capers , the pickles , and the parsley .
You are ready to plate: use a food ring to form the meat into a medallion shape , then complete the dish with the condiments, forming quenelles with the help of two teaspoons. Add the shallot and the pickles .
Continue with the parsley , the capers , and the mustard .
Finally, with the tip of a teaspoon, create a hollow on the surface of the tartare and gently slide an egg yolk into the center . Your beef tartare is ready to be served !
The beef tartare should be consumed immediately.
The meat must be of the highest quality: to ensure zero bacterial load, you can freeze it for at least 24 hours at -4°F.
You can substitute the condiments as you like, using for example olives, sun-dried tomatoes, or lemon zest for a more Mediterranean flavor!
For the safe consumption of raw meat, it is recommended to buy the freshest meat and not to consume it if there are any changes in color or smell. For further information, refer to the Ministry of Health guidelines .

