name:
Creamy Chicken Breast
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Lemons: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: 1spoonful
Black pepper: 1tsp
Smoked paprika: 1tsp
Rosemary: 1sprig
Butter: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp
Nutmeg: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
It's hard to imagine a more delicious second course than our creamy chicken breast: tender breasts marinated with rosemary and paprika, immersed in a truly special béchamel , flavored with the chicken's browning juices. A special dinner, a lunch to savor... everyone will be thrilled with this second course where chicken, as usual, shines! Let yourself be tempted by this tasty dish, its unique and overwhelming flavor will conquer you at first sight!
Come and discover many other chicken breast recipes we have in store for you:
Discover more delicious Chicken recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the creamy chicken breast, clean the chicken breast from fat and bones and cut it in half . With a sharp knife, make shallow cuts on the surface of the chicken, without cutting all the way through, diagonally on both sides .
This way, the flavors will penetrate better into the meat . In a bowl, season the chicken with half of the oil , salt ,
pepper , paprika , and lemon zest .
Massage the chicken, trying to get the seasoning into the cuts . Heat the oil with rosemary and garlic in a pan . Place the chicken in the pan . Cook over medium-high heat until it is browned on the bottom, about 6-7 minutes.
In the meantime, squeeze the lemon juice . Flip the chicken and, still over medium-high heat, deglaze with the lemon juice , cover with a lid, and cook on the other side for 6 or 7 minutes.
Remove the garlic and rosemary from the pan and transfer the cooked chicken to a separate plate .
In the same pan, add the butter and let it melt . Add the flour and toast it, stirring with a whisk.
Pour in the room temperature milk gradually, continuing to stir with the whisk, and allow it to thicken . Season with salt, nutmeg , and rosemary .
Place the chicken back into the pan , cover with the lid , and continue cooking for another 2 minutes. Garnish the creamy chicken breast with lemon zest and rosemary as desired, and serve .
It is recommended to consume the creamy chicken breast immediately.
Instead of milk, you can use chicken broth for a lighter version.
If you prefer, you can marinate the chicken in the refrigerator for 1-2 hours for an even more flavorful result!

