name:
Schiacciata
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Manitoba flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Water: 1.4cups(340 g)- cold
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.1oz(3 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Honey: 0.7tsp(5 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + the rising time (at least 120 min. total)

instructions:
Some prefer schiacciata sweet, while others prefer it savory. We're talking about Tuscan schiacciata! In the savory version, it's an easy-to-make dough at home: a couple of rises will be necessary for the final result to be just right. Tuscan olive oil schiacciata, in fact, encapsulates a harmonic poetry made of a spongy dough in the middle, ideal for holding rich toppings, and a fragrant golden crust. So be careful not to call it or confuse it with focaccia ! In the center of Florence, and beyond, it’s one of the most common street foods, and you can finally prepare it too thanks to our step-by-step recipe. The only doubt you’ll have when making the authentic olive oil schiacciata will be the choice of filling! In the meantime, we suggest: Tuscan finocchiona or mortadella, stracchino and pistachio granules, or a delicious Grape Flatbread ! What ideas do you have? While you’re thinking, we’ll leave you with some other tempting ideas for “schiacciata”:

To prepare the olive oil schiacciata, start by pouring the Manitoba flour and all-purpose flour into a bowl . Dust your hands with flour and crumble the fresh yeast , then pour in part of the cold water, keeping a bit aside .
Start kneading with a wooden spoon and pour in the remaining part of the water , continuing to knead .
Pour in the oil , incorporating it with the wooden spoon , and finally the honey .
Continue kneading until the dough changes consistency and becomes slightly soft and sticky . Then lightly moisten your hands and knead by hand: lift one edge and bring it to the center, repeat for a few minutes .
Incorporate the salt and then transfer the dough to a greased bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise for about 90 minutes, or until it doubles, keeping it in the oven with the light on or under a blanket .
After the time has passed, lightly wet your work surface and your hands , then pour the dough onto the surface and give it 3 reinforcement folds. The movement is simple, lift from the central part .
Then the lower edge will be placed on the surface while the upper edge will be joined , placing it on top . Repeat this operation 2 more times. Form a ball, cover and let it rise for another 30 minutes .
Line a 12x16 inch baking sheet with parchment paper, grease it, and then overturn the risen dough onto it . Stretch with your fingertips, forming the classic focaccia holes . Spray the surface with a little water and a bit more oil .
Salt to taste (in the traditional version, they use a lot of both seasonings). Then bake it in a preheated oven in static mode at 450°F for about 7 minutes, then lower to 375°F and continue for another 9 minutes. Remove the schiacciata from the baking tray and place it on the oven rack, then bake it again for another 9 minutes at 375°F . Once out of the oven, brush your schiacciata with a bit more oil before enjoying it plain or slicing it in half and filling it .
To make sure you enjoy the Tuscan schiacciata while it's still fresh, we recommend eating it immediately, but you can also store it for 1-2 days at most, closed in a bag. In this case, we suggest reheating it in the oven for a few moments.
Honey is a nourishment for the yeast and also helps give the dough the right golden color. If you don't have it at home or want a valid substitution, try using the same amount of malt or sugar!

