name:
Meatballs in White Sauce
ingredients:
Pork: 1.1lbs(500 g)- ground
Mortadella: 1.75oz(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 g)
Breadcrumbs: ⅛cup(30 g)
Eggs: 1- (medium)
White wine: 2.5oz(70 g)
Parsley: 1tuft
Type 00 flour: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
A variation of the classic meatballs with sauce ? Meatballs cooked in white sauce in a pan! Always made with meat and flavored with mortadella and Parmigiano Reggiano PDO: a tasty variant, quicker and equally delicious. We dusted the meatballs with flour before cooking to create a nice crust and deglazed them with white wine for a unique aroma. The white sauce meatballs cook in just a few minutes and are really very simple to make, so: quick dinner guaranteed! Serve them with some mashed potatoes or roasted potatoes for a unique combination, or serve them with peas, they will be really delicious! Do you love meatballs? Try these tasty variations too!

To prepare your meatballs, chop the parsley. Then finely chop the mortadella as well . Pour it into a bowl along with the ground meat .
Add the chopped parsley , the breadcrumbs , and the Parmigiano Reggiano PDO .
the salt , pepper, and the egg . Mix with a fork and when you have obtained a homogeneous mixture, add the milk .
Mix again until you get a uniform mixture . Form the meatballs: take about 0.7 oz of the mixture with wet hands and shape it into a round form . Roll the meatballs in flour .
Place them on a tray as you go : with these quantities, you will get about 36 meatballs. Heat a splash of oil in a large non-stick pan. When hot, add the meatballs and brown them on all sides, turning them gently .
Cook for 5-6 minutes, stirring occasionally. When they are cooked , deglaze the meatballs with white wine and wait until the alcohol has completely evaporated: another 5 minutes will suffice, in total the white sauce meatballs will cook for about ten minutes. All that's left is to serve them !
The white sauce meatballs can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of white wine, you can use Marsala which will make the meatballs even more aromatic!

