name:
Chicken Cacciatore in White
ingredients:
Chicken Thighs: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (4 pieces)
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
White onions: 1
Type 00 flour: 3.5oz(100 g)
Green olives: ½cup(100 g)
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: 0.4cup(100 ml)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Sage: 6leaves
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The Chicken Cacciatore is one of the most beloved meat main courses of Italian cuisine. Today we were inspired by this recipe to make white Chicken Cacciatore! It is an equally tasty version, without tomatoes, with the addition of green olives! Just like in the original recipe, the sauté of carrots, celery, and onion combined with aromatic herbs gives the chicken an unmistakable flavor. We chose to use chicken thighs as they are meatier, but this recipe can be made with any part of the chicken, and the result is always guaranteed!
If you are looking for other chicken-based recipes, also try:
To prepare the white chicken cacciatore, first peel the carrot , trim it and cut it into slices and then into cubes, about 0.5 inches .
Wash the celery stalk and cut it into cubes the same size as the carrots . Peel the onion, then slice and chop it coarsely . Pour the oil into a large pan, let it heat up, and add the chopped vegetables .
Let them brown for a couple of minutes over medium heat, stirring often . Lightly flour the chicken thighs, shaking off the excess flour , and when the vegetables are well browned, add the chicken to the pan, placing them skin side down .
Let them brown and when they are well browned, turn them over . Salt and pepper , then add the garlic clove
and the fresh aromatic herbs . Deglaze with wine and let it evaporate for a few seconds. Add a ladle of hot water ,
cover with a lid and let cook for about 20 minutes, adding a little hot water if needed. After the time has passed, remove the garlic and aromatic herbs, then add the pitted green olives and leave on the heat for another five minutes. When done, remove from the heat and let the white chicken cacciatore rest for a few minutes before serving .
White chicken cacciatore can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days in a food container or covered with plastic wrap. Before consuming, it should be reheated in a pan with the addition of a ladle of hot water or broth.
You can prepare chicken cacciatore with any part of the chicken. Buy a whole chicken and cut it into pieces separating thighs, breast, and wings, and cook it following the recipe in the same way.

