name:
Peposo
ingredients:
Hanger steak: 3.1lbs(1400 g)
Red wine: 2.1cups(500 g)- (Chianti)
Ground black pepper: 10
Garlic: 4cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 4 h
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note FROM THE EDITORIAL STAFF: The Impruneta peposo is a recipe registered with the Trademark and Patent Office of the Chamber of Commerce of Florence, which sets the standards for its production. Our recipe respects these guidelines, with the necessary differ

instructions:
Peposo is a Tuscan recipe, typical of Impruneta, a small town near Florence. It is similar to a beef stew , but with many different nuances. The meat is cooked in wine, typically Chianti, a very full-bodied red wine typical of this land. The meat will take on a dark color and become much more spiced thanks to the addition of black pepper. Peposo is also known as peposo alla fornacina ; in fact, in the past, it was placed in terracotta bowls and cooked very slowly at the mouth of the kilns. This allowed the kiln workers, commissioned by Brunelleschi to create the bricks needed to build his grandiose dome in the center of Florence, to refresh themselves after their artisanal labors. A dish rich in history and flavor, which we invite you to discover and try today. Looking for more Tuscan recipes? Also, try the legendary pappa al pomodoro and the castagnaccio !
To prepare peposo, first place the peppercorns in a cheesecloth and make a small bundle, tying it with some string . Now move on to the meat, first cut it into slices about 1 inch thick
and then into strips about 1.5 inches long . Do not trim the fat from the meat unless it is excessive. Place a pot, preferably cast iron, on the stove, add the meat , the peeled garlic cloves
and the cheesecloth with the pepper . Stir and brown the meat for at least 10 minutes. At this point, pour in the red wine
and cover with a lid . Let it cook on low heat for 2 hours. Then remove the lid, season with salt , stir and let it cook for another two hours, always on low heat, stirring occasionally.
When the gravy has reduced, remove the cheesecloth with the pepper . Your peposo is ready , taste the meat to check if it's done, if necessary, adjust the salt and serve it .
Peposo can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. Alternatively, if you have used all fresh ingredients, you can freeze it.
Be careful when cutting the meat, try to obtain uniform pieces, so they won't fall apart during cooking.

