name:
Baked Pumpkin and Potatoes
ingredients:
Pumpkin: 3 ½cups(550 g)
Potatoes: 1.7lbs(750 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Pumpkin, with its sweet taste and texture, lends itself to many recipes in the kitchen. Today we want to show you an easy side dish to prepare: baked pumpkin and potatoes! It is really simple to make; the only thing to pay attention to is that the pumpkin cubes should be a little larger than the potatoes, as they will cook faster! This side dish for the colder season pairs well with many main courses, both meat and fish-based, and its simplicity will be appreciated by all! If you are looking for other simple pumpkin-based side dishes, we recommend trying baked pumpkin and Baked Pumpkin ! But pumpkin is not only for side dishes; delight your dinners with many other succulent dishes, such as our Single-serving gratin of potatoes, pumpkin, and sausage , the Herb Chops with Pumpkin and Potatoes , or the cream of pumpkin and potatoes !
To prepare baked pumpkin and potatoes, start by peeling the potatoes . Once peeled, they will weigh about 1.2 lbs. Rinse them to remove any dirt residues. Then cut the potatoes first into slices and then into cubes about 1 inch in size . Transfer them into a bowl and set them aside.
At this point, take care of the pumpkin. Start by peeling it and removing any internal strings , you will get about 1 lb. Cut it first into slices and then into cubes about 1.2 inches in size and transfer them into the bowl as well .
Season with salt , pepper, oil , and rosemary needles .
Mix well then transfer onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Spread the pumpkin and potatoes well so that they do not overlap. Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 40 minutes and in the last 5 minutes of cooking, turn on the grill to make them more golden. Then take out of the oven and serve .
You can store pumpkin and potatoes in the refrigerator for one day and reheat them in the oven before serving.
Flavor pumpkin and potatoes with sage or paprika!

