name:
Beans all'uccelletto
ingredients:
Dried cannellini beans: 2 ¼cups(400 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 14.1oz(400 g)
Sausage: 0.8lb(350 g)
Garlic: 3cloves
Sage: 4leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + the soaking time for the beans (one night)

instructions:
Tuscany, land of poets and writers, artists and scientists, but also of excellent wines and ancient flavors, those we find in humble dishes like beans all'uccelletto! This dish is part of the peasant tradition, just like pappa al pomodoro or ribollita . It can also be enjoyed as a main dish with sausage or without, to accompany meat dishes. A slice of Tuscan bread is indispensable to soak up the delicious tomato sauce flavored with garlic and sage, unmistakable aromas of Tuscan cuisine. Leave the rush behind when you set out to cook this recipe and savor the passage of time... beans all'uccelletto, in their simplicity, will help you rediscover the true value of traditional peasant cooking: the art of making do with what you have to transform it into a genuine dish with a unique taste.
Discover other recipes with beans:
To prepare beans all'uccelletto, you will need to soak the dried cannellini beans in a large bowl covered well with cold water , for an entire night. The next day, drain the beans and rinse under running water. Pour them into a large pot with about 2.5 quarts of cold water . Cook the cannellini beans on high heat until they come to a boil, then lower and simmer on low heat for at least 50-60 minutes, skimming occasionally with a skimmer .
You should cook with the lid on the whole time . Once ready, when they are cooked but not mushy, drain and save the cooking liquid . Remove the casing from the sausage, then crumble it by hand .
In the pot where the beans were boiled, heat the oil, add the sausage and let it sizzle on low heat. Add the aromatics: sage and peeled and whole garlic (or in its skin, if you prefer a milder taste) .
Stir and let it flavor. When the sausage is well-browned, you can remove the aromatics . Then tear the peeled tomatoes into pieces in a bowl , before adding them to the pot .
Cook on low heat for about 10-15 minutes . Add the cannellini beans . Stir, add the reserved cooking liquid, about 1 cup .
Let it flavor on medium heat for about 10 minutes, stirring gently . Salt to taste . Your beans all'uccelletto will be ready to serve and enjoy, we recommend serving them hot with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil, a fresh sprig of rosemary, and a pinch of pepper!
We recommend consuming immediately or they can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days.
Freezing is not recommended.
Some add sausage and others do not: you can choose the version you prefer or try both!

