name:
Yogurt Muffins
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Greek yogurt: 1cup(220 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 6.7oz(190 g)- (about 4) at room temperature
Sugar: ¾cup(170 g)
Butter: 4.5oz(130 g)- soft
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Soft and fragrant: muffins are always delicious! From classic American-style muffins , to chocolate muffins , and even butter-free muffins ! Here we offer you a soft and delicious variant: yogurt muffins, one of the simplest ways to make these treats with Greek yogurt , perfect to enjoy at breakfast with a cup of milk or coffee. Like the classic yogurt plumcake , one of the most beloved homemade desserts, these muffins have a neutral and delicate taste appreciated by everyone, adults and kids alike! If you want to give your day an extra boost of energy and good mood, you can always enrich the batter by trying:

To make the yogurt muffins, first ensure that the butter is soft. Leave it out of the refrigerator for about 30 minutes before using it. Then place it in a stand mixer with the whisk attachment (alternatively, you can use electric beaters), add the sugar and start the machine, mixing the ingredients for at least 10 minutes at medium speed until they have a frothy consistency . At this point, add the whole eggs, one at a time , making sure to wait until each egg is well incorporated before adding the next one.
Add a pinch of salt and the grated zest of 1 lemon . Finally, pour in the yogurt little by little and continue to mix the batter until it is well combined .
In a bowl, combine the baking powder with the flour . Incorporate the sifted dry ingredients into the batter using a sieve and mix with a spatula in a gentle folding motion from bottom to top .
Transfer the batter into a piping bag without a nozzle . Now cut out 12 squares of parchment paper measuring 6x6 inches and line a 12-muffin pan with them. Pour the batter until the edge of the mold .
Once all the muffin molds are filled , bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F on the lower rack for 30 minutes or until they are golden on the surface . Once the yogurt muffins are ready, let them cool slightly before decorating them as desired with yogurt using a piping bag and serving them!
Yogurt muffins can be stored for a couple of days under a glass dome or they can be frozen.
For an even more delicious version, you can cover the yogurt muffins with a velvety Chocolate glaze !
Looking for an alternative cooking method? Get inspired by the recipe for Apple muffins in air fryer !

