name:
Gratinated Brussels Sprouts
ingredients:
Brussels sprouts: 1.7lbs(750 g)
Blond beer: 2.3oz(66 g)
Gruyere cheese: 10.6oz(300 g)
White onions: 7.1oz(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Chives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Gratinating in the oven: a way to make even the less tasty dishes much more appetizing! We bet that the recipe for Gratinated Brussels Sprouts will conquer you too! These winter vegetables are not among the most loved, but their unique and unmistakable flavor can be softened by an aromatic beer and a gooey cheese that wraps them with taste. Gratinated Brussels Sprouts are perfect to serve as a side dish or even as a vegetarian main course!
Come and discover all our other recipes with Brussels Sprouts:

To prepare Gratinated Brussels Sprouts, first clean the Brussels sprouts by removing the stem with a knife and discarding any damaged leaves . Rinse them under cold water and dry them with a cloth.
Fill a saucepan with water and when it boils, add the Brussels sprouts , without softening them too much, they should remain "al dente" to continue cooking in the pan and in the oven. Drain them and set them aside. Peel the onion and chop it with a knife .
Pour the oil into a non-stick pan, add the onion and sauté it gently. Once it is golden, add the Brussels sprouts , season with salt and pepper, stir and let it cook for 2-3 minutes.
Now add the light beer slowly , letting it evaporate and stew with the Brussels sprouts over medium-low heat, until the sauce slightly reduces but is not dry . Butter a baking dish .
Pour the cooked Brussels sprouts here . Grate the Gruyere with the large-hole side , cover with plenty of cheese and bake in a preheated convection oven at 350°F for 8-10 minutes.
Meanwhile, cut the chives with kitchen scissors . When the Brussels sprouts are well gratinated, take them out of the oven, season them with chives and serve them hot and gooey .
Gratinated Brussels Sprouts can be stored in the refrigerator in the same baking dish for up to two days, covered with plastic wrap and then reheated in the oven as needed.
Always prefer a light beer or Weiss for this recipe, as it is more suitable for flavor and delicacy. You can replace Gruyere with Fontina or Taleggio.

