name:
Guinea Fowl Stuffed with Chestnuts and Pomegranate Sauce
ingredients:
Guinea fowl: 4.4lbs(1.8 kg)
Chestnuts: 3.6cups(540 g)
Sausage: 0.7lb(300 g)
Pancetta: 7.1oz(200 g)- thinly sliced
Pomegranate: 2
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Rosemary: 0.3tsp(2 g)
White wine: ½cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 6
Cost: High

instructions:
The guinea fowl stuffed with chestnuts and pomegranate sauce is a recipe that will leave all your guests in awe. A sumptuous main course, to be served at the center of the table to bring the whole family together during the holidays or on important occasions. Despite being a white and lean meat, thanks to the long cooking time and the bacon wrap, the guinea fowl will be tender and juicy and will be the perfect envelope to contain a rich and tasty filling. Unlike the traditional Galantine of guinea fowl , this version of the stuffed guinea fowl uses two very autumnal ingredients: sausage and chestnuts, chopped and mixed together, a perfect and original combination that will transform a simple dinner into a special moment to share with friends and family. And if you think the dish is complete, we have a special surprise for you... a colorful pomegranate sauce that will add a sweet note, a combination we have successfully experimented with in our Savory puff pastry rolls with pomegranate . Prepare the guinea fowl stuffed with chestnuts and pomegranate sauce, the balance of the various flavors will fully satisfy your palate and that of your guests.
To prepare the guinea fowl stuffed with chestnuts and pomegranate sauce, start by boiling the chestnuts. Place them in a saucepan filled with water , cover them with a lid , and let them cook for about 30 minutes. Once this time has passed, test with a toothpick: prick them to check if they are cooked, and if so, drain them. Set them aside in a bowl , cover them, and let them cool; this way, the outer coating will soften and make them easier to peel.
Once cooled, peel the chestnuts . You need to obtain 14 oz of cleaned chestnuts, then chop them coarsely .
At this point, take the sausage and remove the casing ; to do this, simply make a cut in the center of each sausage and gently pull it off with your hands. Coarsely chop this as well and transfer it to a bowl along with the chestnuts .
Knead everything together with your hands and season with salt and pepper . Finely chop the rosemary and incorporate it into the mixture .
Set the stuffing aside for a few minutes and take care of the guinea fowl. Singe the guinea fowl to remove any feathers or down ; we used a blowtorch, but if you don't have one, you can hold the guinea fowl close to a gas flame for a few seconds. Then rinse it under running water and pat it dry with paper towels .
Season the inside of the guinea fowl with salt and pepper . Then, using a spoon, stuff it with the sausage and chestnut filling . Sew up the opening using a kitchen needle or the thickest needle you have and some kitchen string. This will seal it completely and prevent the stuffing from coming out during cooking.
Then cut off the excess string and wrap the guinea fowl with bacon . Finally, tie it all with string , like a roast, to keep the bacon in place.
Transfer your guinea fowl to a thick-rimmed saucepan or a cast iron pot and let it brown on both sides without adding any fat. Deglaze with white wine
and continue cooking for another 90 minutes, basting it occasionally with its liquid and covering it with a lid . When the guinea fowl is almost cooked, prepare the accompanying sauce. Cut the pomegranate in half and start to deseed it , setting the seeds aside.
Obtain 10 oz and transfer them to a food mill to extract only the juice . Then pour it into a saucepan, straining it , and add the sugar . Stir everything and cook for 5-6 minutes.
Once you have a fairly thick sauce, pour it into a sauceboat and retrieve the now-cooked guinea fowl. Remove the outer string by cutting it with scissors and serve your guinea fowl stuffed with chestnuts still hot, accompanied by the pomegranate sauce .
You can store your stuffed guinea fowl for 2-3 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container. Alternatively, if you have used all fresh ingredients, you can freeze it.
To fully enjoy the tenderness of the meat, serve your guinea fowl hot! For a more aromatic taste, try adding other spices, such as thyme and sage!

