name:
Roast with Milk
ingredients:
Veal: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- rump
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Dry white wine: 3.4oz(100 ml)
Butter: 2.5oz(70 g)
Carrots: 1
Onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Garlic: 2cloves
Type 00 flour: 1spoonful
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The roast is one of the most beloved main courses, a dish that appeals to both adults and children. To make the traditional veal roast even more delicious, we offer a recipe made with milk, which not only gives the meat a delicate flavor but also creates an exquisite cooking base used to prepare a creamy and very tasty sauce, perfect for accompanying the slices of roast. Few ingredients are needed to make it, but make sure to choose the meat well: for this preparation, we recommend veal rump, an ideal cut of meat for long cooking that will guarantee tender and flavorful slices. Roast with milk is a perfect dish for holiday menus; you can prepare it in advance and then serve it sliced with the warm milk sauce, it will be a real treat!
Don't miss out on these tasty variations too:

To make the roast with milk, start by tying the meat following the instructions found in the cooking school guide How to Tie a Roast . Place the meat on a cutting board, in our case the veal rump, and remove the cartilage and excess fat that could otherwise harden during cooking . Then with kitchen twine, proceed to create the netting (2-3).
Chop the vegetables for the soffritto: place the celery, carrot , and onion in a mixer, turn on the mixer to finely chop them and set aside the mix of vegetables for the soffritto.
Now place a large saucepan on the stove, melt 2 tablespoons (30 g) of butter , place the roast , and brown the meat on all sides .
When the meat is well browned , remove it from the saucepan and place it in a bowl . In the same saucepan, melt the remaining butter and let the finely chopped onion, celery, and carrot simmer with the mixer ;
then add 2 cloves of garlic and the bay leaves . When the soffritto is well cooked down, add the veal roast , then deglaze with half a glass of wine , after it evaporates, salt and pepper.
At this point, add the already hot milk , continue cooking with the lid on , until the meat is well cooked inside, for about 50 minutes. Once cooked, remove the meat .
To check the cooking, pierce the meat with a toothpick , if it loses a clear liquid it means that the meat is cooked perfectly; if pink liquid comes out, continue cooking. If no liquid comes out, it means the meat has been cooked too long. Now remove the bay leaves and garlic cloves from the cooking base, put the base into a bowl and blend it with an immersion mixer
until you obtain a creamy sauce . Place the obtained sauce in a saucepan , meanwhile in a small bowl, place a couple of tablespoons of cold water
add one tablespoon of sifted flour and mix to dissolve the flour , this will prevent lumps from forming in the sauce. Then add the flour to the sauce ,
stir with a whisk and cook on low heat to thicken the sauce. When the sauce is creamy, turn off the heat and transfer it to a gravy boat. Take the roast with milk, slice it , and serve it accompanied by the warm sauce .
Store the roast with milk in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for 2-3 days maximum. It is possible to freeze the roast if you have used fresh ingredients.
As an alternative to the veal rump, you can use turkey breast. If you love aromatics, you can brown the meat with herbs such as rosemary or chives.

