name:
Easy Homemade Bread
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 4 ¼cups(500 g)- medium strength
Water: 1 ½cup(375 g)- at room temperature
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.35oz(10 g)
Honey: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note plus rising times (about 20 hours)

instructions:
Get your notebooks ready and write down this recipe because from today you won't be able to live without it. Let's find out together how to prepare easy homemade bread. If you've always thought that making bread was an insurmountable challenge, start to reconsider. By following our steps, even the least experienced will achieve a perfect result. A no-knead bread that can be made without a stand mixer, with few and simple ingredients. We chose to use type 0 flour, which will give a slightly more rustic flavor. With the right hydration and waiting for the rising times, you will get a white loaf with a soft crumb and a thin crispy crust! The secret also lies in the baking technique we've chosen: bread baked in a pot will have a really special fragrance! So what are you waiting for?! Get your hands in the dough, let's start! And if you are lovers of homemade bread, also try these recipes:
To prepare the easy homemade bread, pour the flour and salt into a bowl . Mix well with a wooden spoon , then add the water ,
the crumbled yeast , the honey , and mix again .
You should get a homogeneous and soft dough; don't worry if it turns out sticky . Use a dough scraper to clean the spoon and the bowl. Cover with plastic wrap or a towel. Let the dough rest for 15 minutes. After this time, remove the plastic wrap and make the first of the three folds. Moisten your hands with water, then take one of the outer edges of the dough, lift it gently and bring it towards the center ,
then rotate the bowl and do the same thing with another edge of the dough . Make two more folds in this way, for a total of 4 folds. Cover again with plastic wrap and wait another 15 minutes. Make another round of 4 folds and cover with plastic wrap.
Wait another 15 minutes and make the last round of folds. Cover again with plastic wrap and let it rest for 16 hours at a temperature of about 72°F . If the temperature is higher, let the dough rise for a shorter time; we always recommend adjusting based on the growth of the dough. Spread a towel on a surface and lightly dust it with flour .
Transfer the dough to the towel and bring the upper edge of the dough towards the center . Do the same for the left side ,
for the right side , and for the lower side , to form a square. Now bring the left corner towards the center ,
then the right one , and the other two . Lift the towel
and transfer it to a 8-inch diameter bowl . Dust the surface with a little flour, then close the towel and transfer to the refrigerator for 4 hours. After 4 hours, heat the oven and a 8-inch diameter pot for baking at 428°F. You can use a cast iron pot or a regular all-steel pot. Take back the dough
and turn it over onto a sheet of parchment paper . Dust the bread with flour , gently removing any excess flour with your hands .
With a sharp knife, make a cross shape on the bread . Carefully take the pot from the oven and place the bread with the parchment paper inside .
Cover with the lid and bake for 30 minutes in a preheated static oven at 428°F. At this point, remove the lid and continue baking for another 20 minutes, switching to a fan mode to get a crispy crust and keeping the temperature unchanged. Remove the bread from the oven ,
take it out of the pot using the parchment paper and let it cool on a wire rack . Slice and serve .
Easy homemade bread can be stored for 2 days in a food bag. Alternatively, after baking, it can be frozen.
With these quantities, you will get a dough with 75% hydration. In any case, as each flour has a different absorption rate, we recommend that you do not pour all the water at once, but set some aside to add as needed. Instead of fresh yeast, you can use 0.12 oz of dry yeast. Instead of honey, you can use the same amount of sugar or malt. You can add various seeds or dried fruit to the dough.
• What strength should the flour have?
We recommend using a medium strength flour with a W around 250.
• Is it possible to use another type of flour?
You can use type 00 flour or type 1 flour. Always consider that each flour will have a different absorption rate, so the amount of water may vary. Additionally, the result will definitely be different.
• Why do the three rounds of folds?
The folds alternated with rests allow the gluten network to form. At the end, you will get a very smooth dough.
• What is the most suitable pot for baking bread?
There are special pots available, but it's perfectly fine to use a regular cast iron pot that retains temperature well. Alternatively, you can use an all-steel pot.
If your oven only has static mode:
After removing the lid, slightly increase the temperature and continue baking until the bread is well browned.
If your oven only has fan mode:
Bake the bread at a slightly lower temperature and raise it only in the last few minutes of baking.

