name:
Tiramisu with Pasteurized Eggs
ingredients:
Sugar: (170 g)
Water: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Egg yolks: 5tbsp(75 g)- (about 5) at room temperature
Ladyfingers: 26
Mascarpone cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Coffee: 10.6oz(300 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note plus cooling times (about 1 hour)

instructions:
The tiramisu is one of the most loved and well-known desserts in the world, but sometimes we are hesitant to prepare it at home due to the presence of raw eggs. The solution? Tiramisu with pasteurized eggs, by pasteurizing the egg yolks needed for the cream using the Pâte à bombe method! The process is the same as the Italian meringue , which involves pouring a hot sugar and water syrup over the raw eggs, in this case, the yolks, for a homemade pasteurization to minimize risks. This method is truly foolproof, you will achieve a unique creaminess and a really melting taste. A perfect mascarpone cream to pair with ladyfingers soaked in coffee! So, what are you waiting for?! Grab a kitchen thermometer and let's start preparing our tiramisu with pasteurized eggs! Looking for an alternative to coffee? The strawberry tiramisu will also please the little ones. And if you still don't feel confident, try our version of eggless tiramisu ! For a delicious alternative, try our Nutella tiramisu , the tiramisu with Pavesini or the one with chocolate cream !
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare tiramisu with pasteurized eggs, first make the pâte à bombe. In a small pot, pour the water and sugar . Heat over low flame and cook the syrup until it reaches a temperature of 250°F, use a kitchen thermometer to measure the exact temperature. When it reaches 239°F, start beating the egg yolks with an electric mixer.
As soon as the syrup reaches the right temperature, slowly pour it into the yolks and continue beating. You should work it until you get a light and frothy cream . When the mixture is cold, you can turn off the mixer .
Pour the mascarpone into a bowl, add the seeds from the vanilla bean and work with a whisk to soften it . Add the pâte à bombe
and continue to mix with the whisk until you get a uniform and firm cream . Transfer to the refrigerator and in the meantime prepare the coffee and let it cool. Now take an 18 cm (7 inches) square baking dish at the base and 22 cm (8.7 inches) at the top. Spread a layer of mascarpone cream on the bottom .
Quickly dip the ladyfingers one at a time in the coffee . Arrange them in the dish to complete the first row. You'll need 6. Now take another 6 ladyfingers and trim them slightly . This way you will have no difficulty inserting them into the dish.
As before, quickly dip them in the coffee and arrange them in the dish , side by side, to form the second row. Add half of the cream and smooth the surface .
Make another layer of ladyfingers as before, in this case, as the dish widens, you will need 14 and there will be no need to cut them. Add the remaining cream and level with the back of a spoon . Dust with cocoa and refrigerate for at least an hour before serving.
You can store tiramisu with pasteurized eggs in the refrigerator for 3 days.
For an even more delicious tiramisu, you can add chocolate chips between layers or liquors (such as cognac, rum, etc.) to the cream. If you prefer to prepare your tiramisu in advance, dust with cocoa just before serving!

