name:
Chocolate and Citrus Bundt Cake
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Eggs: 8.1oz(230 g)- (4 medium)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 6tbsp(50 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 4.6oz(130 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Mandarin orange juice: 2tbsp(30 g)- (from 2 medium mandarins)
Mandarin orange peel: 2
Orange juice: 1.4oz(40 g)- (from 1 orange)
Orange peel: 1
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
When it's cold outside, we always feel like staying in, spending time in the kitchen, and baking lots of wholesome desserts. The chocolate and citrus bundt cake is a delicious comfort food that encapsulates all the fragrances of winter, perfect to enjoy at any time of the day, but especially at breakfast or snack time! To make this cake, we didn't add butter or milk, as usual, but we replaced them with vegetable oil and citrus juice for a more delicate flavor. The scent of oranges and mandarins will fill your kitchen, calling everyone at home to enjoy this delicious and wholesome cake together! And if you love bundt cakes , try these versions too:
To prepare the chocolate and citrus bundt cake, start with the citrus fruits. Wash and dry them. Grate the orange zest and mandarin zest into a single bowl .
Now squeeze the orange to get about 1.4 oz of juice , then squeeze the mandarins to get about 1 oz of juice. Combine them and filter if necessary .
Now chop the dark chocolate and melt it in a double boiler or microwave. Be careful not to overheat it and let it cool slightly before using. In the meantime, pour the eggs into a bowl and add the sugar .
Beat the eggs at maximum speed with electric beaters until they are fluffy and frothy. At this point, add the vegetable oil and the melted dark chocolate at room temperature .
Continue mixing at medium speed until you obtain a homogeneous mixture. Now add the sifted cocoa powder and the sifted flour .
Continue mixing with the electric beaters until you obtain a smooth, lump-free mixture. Now add the citrus zest and their juice . Mix with a spatula to incorporate them.
Finally, incorporate the sifted baking powder and mix with the electric beaters . Pour the batter into a 8.6-inch bundt pan, previously greased .
Bake the chocolate and citrus bundt cake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 40 minutes. Remove from the oven and let it cool completely before removing it from the pan. Then transfer it to a plate, dust with powdered sugar , and enjoy !
The chocolate and citrus bundt cake keeps at room temperature, under a glass dome for 2-3 days. It is possible to freeze the cake, either in slices or whole.
You can replace the dark chocolate with milk chocolate, but reduce the sugar to 4.2 oz. Instead of butter to grease the pan, you can use vegetable oil.

