name:
Risotto with pea cream and guanciale
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Peas: 2 ½cups(300 g)- (already cleaned)
Fresh scallion: 1
Jowls: 10slices- (thin)
Lemons: 1
Mint: to taste
White wine: ¼cup(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Robiola cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)- cold

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the risotto with pea cream and guanciale, start with the latter: place it in a pan and heat it over medium flame, so it will gradually melt . Once the slices are browned, remove them from the pan and drain on absorbent paper. Shell the peas .
Set aside the peas and use the pods to prepare a vegetable broth . Clean the green onion .
Add the green onion leaves to the broth , then slice it . Braise the green onion in the same pan used for the guanciale .
Once the green onion is wilted, add the peas , saving a handful for garnishing the dishes, add a ladle of broth and cook gently, it will take 10-15 minutes. Once ready, pour the peas into a jug .
Season with the zest and the juice of half a lemon , then blend with an immersion blender .
Sieve the cream obtained to make it smoother and set aside. In a saucepan, toast the rice dry with a pinch of salt over medium flame .
Deglaze with white wine , once evaporated, cook the risotto by gradually adding the broth . A couple of minutes before the end of cooking, incorporate the pea cream , keeping a little aside for garnishing the dishes.
Turn off the heat, stir in grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP, robiola , butter, pepper, and lemon zest .
Cover with a cloth and let rest for two minutes . Meanwhile, chop the fresh mint . Toss the rice .
Serve the risotto using a ring to maintain its shape , then garnish with fresh peas, mint , and guanciale . The risotto with pea cream and guanciale is ready to be enjoyed.
We recommend consuming the risotto with pea cream and guanciale immediately. You can prepare the pea cream in advance.
The lemon juice will keep the color vivid and balance the sweetness of the peas. The rice will be well toasted when it becomes very hot and releases an intense cereal aroma. Chop the mint with a very sharp knife so it does not oxidize.

