name:
Corn fritters
ingredients:
Corn: 1 ½cup(360 g)- pre-cooked
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: 1glass(225 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 1tsp(5 g)
Thyme: 4sprigs
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: 3cups(700 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 25 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
The batter is pure poetry: whether it envelops fish, fruit, or cauliflower , it transforms into a fizzy cloud plunged into boiling oil. Once cooked, hot, and crispy, it becomes a symphony of crunches in your mouth... corn fritters are no exception! A perfect recipe as an appetizer for your dinners or lunches with friends, a delightful way to start sharing the meal. Serve these hot batter bites that somewhat resemble sciurilli in texture and are enriched by the crunchiness of corn kernels. Prefer to accompany them with a dipping sauce? Then try dipping the corn fritters in Ketchup Sauce or a BBQ sauce.
Also try our recipe for bread fritters !
To prepare the corn fritters, start by placing a pot full of oil on the stove to heat up for frying. Meanwhile, prepare the batter. In a bowl, pour in the flour, baking powder , water in a thin stream while mixing with a whisk to avoid lumps . Then add the grated Parmesan ,
the salt , the drained corn , and the pepper
and finally add the thyme leaves . Mix well with a spoon and move to the stove. At this point, the oil should be at 340°F, the ideal temperature for frying, which you can measure with a kitchen thermometer. Use two spoons to drop 4 – 5 portions of batter into the oil: you should get about 25 pieces in total .
After about 4-5 minutes, the fritters will be golden brown. Drain them on paper towels and continue frying the rest . Your corn fritters are ready, enjoy .
Once cooked, it is recommended to consume the corn fritters immediately. Alternatively, they can be stored for up to a day, keeping in mind that the texture may become soft and greasy. The batter can be prepared and stored a few hours in advance.
If you want to give an extra burst of flavor, replace the Parmesan with Pecorino Romano, making your corn fritters truly savory and delicious! The herbs can be substituted as you prefer: instead of thyme, finely chopped rosemary works well. Some spices could also make the fritters particularly tasty... think about it!

