name:
Savory cones with mortadella mousse
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- (rectangular)
Mortadella: 6.5oz(180 g)- (sliced)
Cream cheese: ½cup(120 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 4tbsp(60 g)
Whole milk: to taste
Unsalted pistachios: 0.5oz(15 g)- (shelled)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Were you looking for a tasty appetizer to serve to your friends? With a few ingredients and in a short time, you can prepare these savory cones with mortadella mousse and delight their palates! After trying many recipes like those with salmon and cheese cream , those in Spring cones , and even those in the shape of little carrots that kids love, this time we experimented with savory cones with mortadella mousse and we really liked the result. Prepare them too and serve them with a glass of sparkling wine: guaranteed success!
To prepare the savory cones with mortadella mousse, start by unrolling the puff pastry sheet; use the rectangular one to obtain very similar strips. Then position the longest side of the roll vertically and cut with a straight pastry cutter to obtain 10 strips of the same size (use a ruler to divide the pastry evenly) , then place them on metal cones, pinching the puff pastry well at the tip of the mold so they don't deform during baking.
Wrap the strip of puff pastry all around the cone like a spiral, making sure the edges meet, then press them gently . Brush the cones with a little milk , place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and bake in a static oven at 392°F for 18-20 minutes, or until golden brown on the surface, or in a fan oven at 356°F for about 15 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the mortadella mousse by placing the mortadella and heavy cream in a mixer , then add the fresh spreadable cheese and blend until you obtain a smooth and compact cream .
When the cones have cooled, gently remove them from the mold by slightly squeezing the cone to detach it from the pastry , then place the mousse in a piping bag and fill the puff pastry cones carefully to the brim , squeeze a little more mousse on the tip to help the pistachio crumbs adhere .
Chop the pistachios coarsely with a knife and place them in a small bowl , then dip the tip of each cone in the crumbs and repeat for all. Finally, serve the savory cones with mortadella mousse.
These savory cones with mortadella mousse can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days in a closed glass container.

