name:
Polenta and bruscitt
ingredients:
Salt: to taste
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Pepper: to taste
Colonnata lard: 1.6oz(45 g)
Fennel seeds: 1tsp(5 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Red wine: 0.8cup(200 ml)- type Barbera
Beef: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- chuck
Beef: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- shoulder clod
Corn flour: 3.1cups(375 g)
Water: 8 ½cups(1.5 l)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 2 h 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Common in the northern area of Lombardy, polenta and bruscitt is a typical specialty of Busto Arsizio, and the citizens of Busto, known as bustocchi, are very proud of it. When visiting the butcher shops or restaurants in the city, you should ask for bruscitti, the original name, which in various dialectal inflections has lost the final vowel. Bruscitt are small beef strips sautéed in a pan with butter and lard, flavored with garlic and wild fennel seeds, that are left to cook slowly for a couple of hours and are deglazed with red wine, usually Barbera, Nebbiolo, or Barolo, at the end of cooking. Bruscitt are then served with steaming yellow polenta, to be dipped in the delicious meat gravy. Polenta and bruscitt is a simple and rustic dish with a strong and full-bodied flavor, perfect for the winter season! Also try polenta with sausage and cheese for an equally robust and appetizing variation of a classic home-cooked meal.
To prepare polenta and bruscitt, take the beef and trim off the excess fat , then cut it into half-inch chunks ; cut the lard into thin strips .
Prepare a cheesecloth bag (alternatively use a spice infuser or, if you don't have one, add the spices directly to the pan) in which to insert the fennel seeds and a peeled garlic clove . Close the bag with a piece of string or a toothpick .
Melt the butter and lard in a fairly large pan . Add the meat , season with salt and pepper, and add the bag with the aromatics .
Cover with a lid and cook for at least 2 hours over low heat, stirring every 20-30 minutes with a wooden spoon gently to avoid breaking the bag. In the meantime, prepare the polenta ( here more instructions) by bringing salted water to a boil, adding a scant tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil, and pouring the cornmeal in a stream while continuously stirring with a whisk . To shorten the time, you can use instant polenta.
After two hours, the meat will be quite tender: remove the bag of aromatics , increase the heat and deglaze with the red wine . Leave on the heat for another 5 minutes and your bruscitti will be ready ! Serve them with polenta and slices of oven-toasted bread.
You can store the bruscitt in an airtight container in the refrigerator. The bruscitt can be frozen and then reheated directly in a pan.
If you find that the bruscitt are too liquid, continue cooking without the lid; if they are too dry, do not add more liquid but butter.
The name bruscitt indicates the humble and peasant origins of this dish: bruscitt means crumbs and most likely indicated that less noble or leftover cuts of meat were used, cut into small pieces to make them more uniform. There is also the Magistero dei Bruscitti da Busti Grandi , an association founded in 1975, which has filed the original bruscitt recipe with a notary, which we have been inspired by.

