name:
Red velvet cupcake
ingredients:
Sugar: 1cup(225 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(220 g)
Buttermilk: 3cups(185 g)
Butter: 6tbsp(85 g)- at room temperature
Whole milk: 1.4tbsp(20 ml)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 1tbsp(8 g)
Apple cider vinegar: 0.8tsp(3.5 g)
Baking soda: 0.8tsp(3.5 g)
Eggs: 1
Egg yolks: 1
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Fine salt: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Food coloring: to taste- powdered, red
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Butter: 14.1oz(200 g)- at room temperature
Egg whites: ½cup(100 g)
Water: 5tbsp(75 ml)
Vanilla bean: 1- the seeds

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 12
Cost: Low

instructions:
The red velvet cake is one of the most beloved and picturesque American cakes characterized by its intense red color. After turning it into a delicious roll , we thought of reintroducing it in a single-serving version by making delicious red velvet cupcakes. We couldn't miss adding a touch of novelty, so to make these delights even more tantalizing, we decorated them with a meringue buttercream that uses egg whites instead of yolks, which are present in the classic recipe. Even if it’s not Valentine's Day, don’t wait for a special occasion to prepare one of the most delicious and scenic cakes from overseas and indulge in this guilty pleasure in a mini format without remorse!
Check out our special: what to give for Valentine's Day.
To make the red velvet cupcakes, start by placing half of the granulated sugar and the softened butter in a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment (or you can use electric beaters); turn on the machine and whip the ingredients for a few minutes until a creamy mixture is obtained. Add the room temperature egg and the yolk, then incorporate the other half of the sugar .
Continue whisking until you get a light and fluffy mixture . At this point, incorporate the sifted unsweetened cocoa powder and a teaspoon of vanilla extract (or the seeds from a vanilla pod) .
Dissolve the powdered food coloring in the milk (7-8) and pour the mixture into the batter. Turn on the machine to combine the ingredients; you should obtain a bright red mixture .
In a separate small bowl, dissolve the baking soda in the apple cider vinegar by stirring with a teaspoon. Combine the obtained mixture with the buttermilk (alternatively, you can use whole plain yogurt) , add the salt and pour the buttermilk into the stand mixer bowl ; lastly, add the sifted flour and mix with a spatula.
Transfer the cupcake batter into a disposable piping bag , cut the tip with scissors, and squeeze the mixture into a cupcake pan lined with appropriate single-serving paper cups , filling the molds up to 3/4, this way they won’t overflow during baking. Bake the cupcakes in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 15 minutes (or in a convection oven at 320°F for about 10 minutes). Meanwhile, prepare the buttercream: place a saucepan with water on the stove, add 7 oz of granulated sugar
and heat the syrup until it reaches 250°F; to verify the temperature, use a food thermometer . When the syrup reaches 240°F, pour the egg whites into a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment and start beating them; when they begin to become frothy, incorporate the remaining 1.8 oz of granulated sugar
and continue whisking. As soon as the sugar syrup reaches 250°F, pour it in a thin stream into the egg whites , continuing to beat with the whisk until the cream is completely cold. Meanwhile, place the butter pieces in a bowl, flavor it with the seeds from a vanilla pod, and work it with a whisk
until a creamy consistency is obtained . Gradually incorporate the creamy butter into the egg whites , keeping the mixer running. When all the butter is incorporated into the cream, stop the mixer, transfer the cream into a bowl, cover it with plastic wrap , and place it in the refrigerator.
Take the cooked and cooled cupcakes , remove them from the pan, transfer the buttercream into a piping bag with a large star tip, and decorate the surface of the cupcakes with plenty of buttercream . Finally, decorate with small colorful sprinkles: we used heart-shaped ones . Your red velvet cupcakes are ready to be enjoyed!
Store the red velvet cupcakes in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. You can store the buttercream separately in the refrigerator for 4-5 days and the cupcakes under a glass dome for a couple of days. You can freeze the cupcakes without the decoration.
The most nostalgic sweet tooth can fill the red velvet cupcakes with the classic vanilla-flavored milk cream.

