name:
Radicchio Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ¼cup(180 g)
Radicchio: 7oz(200 g)
Red wine: ½glass
White onions: ½
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2spoonfuls
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Butter: 4 ¼tbsp(60 g)
Thyme: 1bunch
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
Risotto lovers, this autumn recipe is a must-save: radicchio risotto! A first course with an enveloping flavor featuring radicchio in two textures: sautéed in the pan to become soft in just a few minutes, and raw on the finished plate. A truly special creamy risotto, perfect for a dinner where you want to impress with simplicity or add your personal touch with a crunchy (e.g., walnuts) or creamy note (delicious gorgonzola). The versatility of radicchio makes it ideal for experimenting with different interpretations, capturing the essence of autumn in every bite. Come and discover all our other radicchio risotto recipes:
To prepare radicchio risotto, first, you need to have the vegetable broth warm and ready. Then wash and slice the radicchio into thin strips (set aside a handful of raw radicchio to garnish the plates) . In a pan, melt 1.5 tablespoons of butter and add the rest of the radicchio .
Sauté with salt and pepper to season. Clean and finely chop the onion .
In a separate saucepan, melt another 1.5 tablespoons of butter , add the chopped onion , and cook, stirring frequently, until it softens. Add the rice and toast it for a few minutes, stirring constantly.
When the rice is toasted, deglaze with the red wine , let the alcohol evaporate, then start adding the hot vegetable broth a little at a time, just enough to cover the rice, adding more as needed to cook the risotto. At the end of cooking, add the radicchio that you had wilted .
Stir in another 1.5 tablespoons of butter, the Grana Padano PDO, and fresh thyme . Plate the radicchio risotto , and finish with the fresh radicchio set aside .
We recommend consuming the radicchio risotto immediately. If there are leftovers, you can refrigerate them and then gratin in the oven before serving.
For the preparation of this risotto, we used Chioggia red radicchio, but you can use other varieties like Treviso radicchio.

