name:
Italian-style Croissants
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2.8oz(80 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.1oz(3 g)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Water: 0.4cup(95 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (2 medium) at room temperature
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.1oz(4 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Manitoba flour: 1.1cups(140 g)
Butter: 5.6tbsp(80 g)- soft
Fine salt: 1 ¼tsp(7 g)
Vanilla extract: to taste
Butter: 6.3oz(180 g)- (cold)
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + dough maturation times (26 hours)

instructions:
Italian-style croissants are very similar to Croissant . The presence of vanilla and eggs is what mainly sets them apart. Even though both are flaky, these will be softer inside and well aerated. But don't worry, they won't miss the typical crust we all love! The technique for laminating Italian-style croissants is the same as that for croissants and puff pastry . What changes is the initial dough, in this case, more similar to a brioche dough. We always recommend choosing high-quality butter for a perfect result and filling the Italian-style croissants with creams, Whole wheat honey croissants or various jams. And if you want to try other similar recipes, we also recommend the Two-tone croissant , those with sourdough , those Butterless Croissants and the Saccottini !
Fancy a savory variant? Try the pizza croissants !
To prepare Italian-style croissants, start by preparing the starter dough. In a bowl, pour the flour, crumbled yeast , and water . Mix quickly ,
until a homogeneous consistency is obtained . Cover with plastic wrap and let it mature for 8 to 10 hours at room temperature . After 8-10 hours of maturing the starter dough, pour the two flours into a stand mixer equipped with a hook ,
then add the sugar , a pinch of vanilla extract , and water
and the crumbled yeast . Also, add the starter dough and turn on the stand mixer. When the ingredients are well mixed, gradually add the eggs to the dough and work with the hook until fully absorbed.
Add the salt and work for a couple more minutes. Then gradually add the soft butter , waiting for each piece to be fully absorbed before adding the next. Work until the dough is well incorporated with the hook .
Then transfer the dough to a work surface and shape it into a ball. Transfer the dough into a bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise at room temperature for 1 hour. Retrieve the dough
and place it on a rectangular tray . Press lightly with your fingers to spread it out . Cover the dough with plastic wrap and transfer it to the refrigerator for 12 hours.
After 12 hours, take the butter from the fridge and roll it out between two sheets of parchment paper using a rolling pin. You need to obtain a rectangle measuring 8x6 inches . Take the slightly risen dough, transfer it to a lightly floured surface , and roll it out to form a rectangle measuring 15.75x10 inches .
Place the butter sheet in the center of the dough and fold the longer sides of the dough over it. Seal the other two short sides by bringing them towards the center and pressing with your fingers . You should encase the butter well and seal the dough.
Roll out the dough with a rolling pin , forming a rectangle about 18 inches long and 8.5 inches wide. If the dough has warmed up, transfer it to the refrigerator for 15 minutes, well covered. At this point, bring one edge of the dough to one-third of the rectangle and fold the other over it . In this way, you have made the first three-fold. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest for at least 30 minutes in the refrigerator.
Take the dough out and place it again on the floured surface; roll it out in the direction of the folds until you obtain a rectangle of the same dimensions as before. At this point, repeat the three-fold by bringing one edge of the dough to one-third of the rectangle and the other to cover . Wrap in plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator for another 30 minutes.
and make one last three-fold as just done. Wrap again in plastic wrap and let it rest again in the refrigerator, this time for about 60 minutes. Finally, take the dough out and roll it out to a thickness of about 1/5 inch until you get a rectangle 31.5 inches long and 6 inches wide . Trim the edges to be precise .
From this, you need to cut 12 triangles with a base of 4 inches and a height of 6 inches . At this point, hold the base of the triangle firmly with one hand and gently stretch the dough with the other hand to increase its length by a quarter .
Now all you have to do is roll your croissant starting from the base without pressing or tightening too much . You should get 2 complete turns, so 3 curls . Prepare all the croissants this way and place them on a baking sheet, spacing them well apart .
Let them rise for 2 hours at room temperature , then brush the surface with the egg yolk mixed with fresh cream . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 25 minutes, checking the baking without opening the oven until they are well browned. Remove the croissants from the oven and let them cool slightly before serving them .
Italian-style croissants can be stored for 2 days at room temperature. Alternatively, they can be frozen after baking. Alternatively, you can freeze the shaped croissants raw before the final rise: you can then take them out of the freezer, let them thaw overnight in a turned-off oven, and then brush them as indicated in the recipe. Then bake them as indicated.
It is recommended to prepare the starter dough in the morning so that you can make the dough by evening and let the dough mature in the refrigerator overnight, so you can complete the preparation the next day.

