name:
Purple Potato Focaccia
ingredients:
Purple potatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Type 1 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Water: 2cups(450 g)
Fine salt: 3 ½tsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(15 g)
Purple potatoes: 14.1oz(400 g)
Green olives: 7.1oz(200 g)- pitted
Rosemary: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Maldon salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 6
Note + the rising time (about 2 hours total)

instructions:
If you love getting your hands in the dough and baking tasty leavened products, you can't miss the purple potato focaccia! A soft and flavorful focaccia, made with a special purple potato dough, characterized by a particularly high and fluffy texture. The surface also features purple potatoes, this time sliced and paired with green olives, plus the fragrant note of oregano and rosemary. A mix of Mediterranean flavors ready to be bitten into! Great for a hearty snack or to accompany a rich salad, the purple potato focaccia is a recipe you absolutely must try.
Besides this delicious Potato Focaccia , discover how many other recipes can be made with purple potatoes:

To prepare the purple potato focaccia, first, put the potatoes in a pot with cold water , bring to a boil, and cook until they are soft enough to be pierced with a toothpick ; it will take about 45 minutes, but the time may vary depending on the size. Drain the potatoes and let them cool slightly, then mash them with a potato masher into a bowl .
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook, pour the semolina and type 1 flour , then add the mashed potatoes .
Add half of the water and start the mixer at low speed. When the ingredients start to combine, incorporate the yeast and shortly after, the salt .
Continue working by gradually adding the remaining water . When all the water has been absorbed, knead the dough for another 2 minutes, then add the oil . Once the dough is smooth and homogeneous, turn it out onto an oiled work surface .
Give it some strengthening folds , then transfer the dough to an oiled bowl , cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise at room temperature for an hour, or until it doubles in volume.
After the rising time , turn the dough out onto the work surface again and give it more folds: bring the outer edges towards the center .
Round the dough into a slightly elongated loaf , then transfer it to a well-oiled non-stick baking sheet . Oil the surface of the dough as well, then cover with plastic wrap and let it double at room temperature for another hour; it should double in volume.
Meanwhile, slice the potatoes for the topping using a mandolin to a thickness of 1/8 inch . Collect the potato slices in a bowl and season with Maldon salt and rosemary needles .
Add the oil as well , mix well with your hands , and set aside. After the rising time, stretch the loaf with your fingertips to cover the entire baking sheet, being careful not to press too hard so as not to release the leavening gases .
Now distribute the potatoes on the surface , then sprinkle with olives and Maldon salt .
Fragrance with oregano and rosemary and season with a drizzle of oil. Bake in a preheated static oven at 445°F for about 25-30 minutes, placing the baking sheet on the lowest rack. After this time, check the base of the focaccia: if it is golden, you can take it out of the oven ; otherwise, continue baking for another 5 minutes. Your purple potato focaccia is ready to be enjoyed !
Purple potato focaccia can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days; before serving, heat it in the oven at 320°F for about ten minutes.
Alternatively, it can be frozen for about a week.
If you want to enrich the purple potato focaccia with a cheesy touch, you can add slices of smoked scamorza cheese on the surface 10 minutes before the end of the cooking time!

