name:
Upside-down Orange Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(230 g)
Eggs: 4.8oz(135 g)- (about 3 small)
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Peanut seed oil: 4.1tbsp(60 g)
Orange juice: 0.38cup(90 g)- (from about 2 oranges)
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Oranges: 2- (for garnish)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
With its fragrance and beauty, the upside-down orange cake will be a much-appreciated dessert! Are you already familiar with the method to create this special decoration? You have likely already experimented with the Upside-down lemon cake , the upside-down pineapple cake , and the upside-down banana cake! If not, here is the opportunity to discover how to make upside-down cakes! The batter for this cake is made in no time, and you will quickly discover that the bottom of your cake becomes the beautiful top! Like its "cousins," this upside-down orange cake will be tasty, irresistible, and bring joy to the table. Are you ready to prepare it? Let's get started!
If you want to check out other versions of upside-down cakes, we recommend:

To prepare the upside-down orange cake, grate the zest of one orange for the batter and set it aside. Then squeeze the oranges to obtain 3 oz of juice . Wash the oranges needed for the decoration and cut them into slices about 0.4 inches thick, discarding the ends .
Line a 9.5-inch springform pan with parchment paper and lightly grease it with butter. Place the whole orange slices on the bottom, covering the base completely . Moving on to the batter: in a bowl, combine room temperature eggs and sugar , whisk them for a good 5 minutes with an electric mixer until you get a very frothy mixture.
Add the orange juice and vegetable oil , continue to whisk with the electric mixer .
Now add the sifted flour and baking powder , then the grated orange zest . Whisk again with the electric mixer for a few moments to obtain a smooth mixture .
Pour the batter into the pan and gently rotate to level the mixture, without tapping the pan . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 45 minutes .
Remove from the oven, then remove the cake from the pan once it has completely cooled. Carefully remove the parchment paper and flip the cake onto a serving plate . Remove the parchment paper from the surface, and your upside-down orange cake is ready .
The upside-down orange cake keeps for 4-5 days in the pantry.
Add chocolate chips to the batter; they will go perfectly with the orange!

