name:
Stuffed Escarole
ingredients:
Escarole (endive): 1- large
Anchovies in oil: 6
Black olives: 2spoonfuls- from Gaeta
Salted capers: 2spoonfuls
Pine nuts: 1spoonful
Raisins: 1spoonful
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
Stuffed escarole, in Neapolitan known as scarola mbuttunata , is a traditional recipe from Campania prepared during holiday periods, especially around Christmas. It's a simple preparation of peasant origin, given the humble and traditional ingredients it is made of, served as a side dish or a light main course. Stuffed escarole has a very intense flavor since it is not blanched and is filled with typical flavors of Campanian cuisine, some of which are also found in the recipe for braised escarole . Every family has its own version where they add, remove, or substitute an ingredient based on taste. Along with spaghetti with clams and Christmas zeppole , stuffed escarole is one of those dishes that cannot be missing from a Neapolitan holiday menu!
To prepare the stuffed escarole, first finely chop the parsley and set it aside . Then pour a generous drizzle of oil and the anchovies into a pan , then add the desalted capers .
Add the black olives , previously soaked raisins , and pine nuts .
Turn on the heat and let everything flavor for a few minutes, then add the chopped parsley and stir again . Turn off the heat. Move on to the escarole which must be well washed and dry. Gently spread it open with your hands .
Season it well with the freshly prepared sauté, distributing it evenly . Then tie the escarole with kitchen twine to close it and seal the filling inside . In the same pan used for the sauté, pour a drizzle of oil and place the escarole inside .
Cover with a lid and cook for 10 minutes over medium heat, being careful not to burn it. At this point, turn it over and sprinkle with pecorino cheese .
Cover again with the lid and cook for another 10 minutes. After this time, remove the lid, increase the heat a little, and toast it well until you get a golden crust . Then transfer it to a cutting board .
Deglaze the cooking juices with a bit of water and let it reduce until you get a sauce . Remove the twine from the escarole and portion it .
Transfer the escarole to plates, finish with a bit of sauce and a sprinkle of pecorino cheese . Serve your stuffed escarole immediately !
The stuffed escarole can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day.
Be very careful as the escarole is very delicate and could break or burn. Turn it gently and adjust the heat well so that it cooks through internally.

