name:
Pumpkin Tagliatelle with Crispy Bacon and Grana Padano
ingredients:
Delica pumpkin: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to clean)
Type 00 flour: 3cups(360 g)
Egg yolks: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)- about 2
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)- to grate
Thyme: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Pancetta: 4.2oz(120 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: to taste- petals

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Note + 35 min. of dough resting time

instructions:
Pumpkin tagliatelle with crispy bacon and Grana Padano is a first course of homemade fresh egg pasta with autumn flavors. In this recipe, we enriched the dough of traditional tagliatelle with pumpkin puree, which will add a touch of sweetness and a pleasant orange hue to the pasta. But what really makes this dish appetizing is the Grana Padano PDO cream, a quick fondue flavored with pepper and thyme that will deliciously wrap the tagliatelle. To finish, we couldn't miss the crispy note with a handful of diced bacon browned in the pan. These delicious pumpkin tagliatelle with crispy bacon and Grana Padano will be your trump card for autumn menus!
To prepare the pumpkin tagliatelle with crispy bacon and Grana Padano, first cook the pumpkin in the oven at 350°F for about 50 minutes , or until well cooked . Once the pumpkin is cooked, scoop out the pulp with a spoon : you will need about 7 oz. Mash the pulp well with a fork .
Blend the puree with an immersion blender until you get a smooth, homogeneous mixture without whole pieces . Now prepare the fresh pasta: in a bowl, combine the flour and pumpkin pulp .
Also add the egg yolks and mix with the fork. Knead by hand first in the bowl and then on the work surface until you get a dough ball .
Cover the dough with the bowl and let it rest for about 5 minutes. Take the dough again and work it until it becomes smooth and homogeneous . Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest for at least 30 minutes outside the fridge in a cool, dry place.
After the resting time, take the dough and cut a portion with the dough cutter , making sure to keep the remaining dough in the plastic wrap to prevent it from drying out. Flour the portion of dough and roll it out with the pasta machine starting from the widest thickness to the narrowest . Occasionally sprinkle the dough lightly with flour, fold the two edges towards the center, and continue passing it between the rollers.
Once you get a thin sheet, place it on the lightly floured board and trim the ends with a dough cutter (or a knife) . Divide it into several parts to handle it more easily and cut tagliatelle 1/4 inch wide using the appropriate roller of the pasta machine .
As you cut the pasta , place the tagliatelle on the board and sprinkle with a little semolina flour . While bringing water to a boil for the pasta, prepare the sauce: cut the bacon into strips .
Then cut it into small cubes . Place the bacon in a hot pan and brown it well. When it's crispy and roasted , remove the bacon from the pan and set it aside.
Turn off the heat and add 2 ladles of boiling pasta water to the hot pan . Add the grated Grana Padano PDO and stir off the heat to melt it well and prevent it from splitting .
Once the sauce is ready, season with black pepper and thyme to taste . At this point, cook the tagliatelle in boiling salted water . Drain the pasta .
Transfer the tagliatelle to the pan, still off the heat , and toss everything to blend the sauce well. Finish the dish with crispy bacon and Grana Padano PDO flakes . Your pumpkin tagliatelle with crispy bacon and Grana Padano are ready to be served !
We recommend consuming the pumpkin tagliatelle with crispy bacon and Grana Padano immediately.
You can freeze the tagliatelle before cooking: place the pasta nests well spaced on a tray and then put them in the freezer to harden for a couple of hours. Once they are well hardened, transfer them to freezer bags and put them back in the freezer. When you need to use them, boil them in water directly from frozen and proceed as per the recipe.
The pumpkin must be well cooked and blended to avoid finding pieces of pumpkin in the dough.
You can use other types of pumpkins, except for the Napoli pumpkin, which is very watery.
If you don't have a pasta machine, you can proceed this way: sprinkle the pasta with a bit of semolina on both sides and let the sheets dry for 5 minutes per side. Then take a sheet, fold one edge up to about two-thirds and start rolling, creating a very flat roll, keeping the closure facing up. Cut the pasta roll into 1/4 inch thick strips. Take the tagliatelle by the ends, spread them on your hand, then roll them around your fingers to create a nest and place it on the lightly floured board.

