name:
Rosti
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 1.7lbs(750 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(55 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Region you go, specialty you find... especially if it's made with potatoes: from the Potatoes in Tecia of Friuli-Venezia Giulia to the Patate 'mpacchiuse of Calabria and the renowned Neapolitan gateau . Today, however, we cross the border to discover rosti, a tasty recipe from Swiss cuisine! Rosti is a golden disc with a crispy crust made from grated potatoes, but there are two main schools of thought: one suggests grating the potatoes raw, the other suggests cooking them first. We opted for a pre-cooking method to make the preparation easier and to achieve a softer texture inside. Rosti can also be enriched with many ingredients like speck, onion, or cheese, but in our recipe, you'll find only potatoes and butter because... it's already delicious this way! We leave you the pleasure of experimenting with rosti in its more traditional or innovative variations, such as Artichoke Rösti and Fried Eggs or Lentil Rosti with Monkfish , and the tough task of electing the best one!
To prepare rosti, first put the potatoes in a pot with plenty of cold water, bring to a boil, and cook for about 10-15 minutes ; the time varies depending on the size of the potatoes, they should be very firm. After draining them, peel the potatoes and grate them into a large bowl using a grater with large holes ; for this operation, the potatoes should be cold or warm.
Season the grated potatoes with salt and pepper and mix well. Now take a non-stick pan with a diameter of 8.66 inches, add a portion of butter taken from the total amount , and let it melt.
Pour the grated potatoes into the pan and stir for about 5 minutes over medium-high heat, starting to shape the rosti with a spatula .
Add small pieces of butter to the sides of the rosti and continue cooking for 6-7 minutes without stirring . At this point, grease a wide and flat lid with butter and place it on the pan to flip the rosti .
Melt another piece of butter in the pan before sliding the rosti back in . Add more small pieces of butter to the sides and cook the rosti on the other side for another 6-7 minutes, always over medium-high heat . When the potato rosti is crispy on the outside and soft inside, it is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the rosti as soon as it is ready. Alternatively, you can store it in the refrigerator for one day and reheat it in the oven before serving.
If you prefer, you can use extra virgin olive oil instead of butter, as in the recipe for light rosti .
You can add speck or diced bacon, onions, grated cheese, or aromatic herbs to the potato mixture!
Did you know that in Jewish tradition there are potato pancakes similar to rosti? Try the recipe for Latkes !

