name:
Sausages in Tomato Sauce
ingredients:
Sausage: 1.5lbs(660 g)- (sausages, 4)
White onions: 1
Tomato paste: 1cup(230 g)
Water: 2.1cups(500 g)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Want a quick but very tasty idea for today's lunch? Try our sausages in tomato sauce and you'll be sure to prepare a succulent and flavorful dish! Sausages are already excellent cooked with wine , or with beans or baked with potatoes , and why not in a pan ? But you'll see that with a nice slice of homemade bread, you can do a necessary and irresistible scarpetta (sopping up the sauce) with this recipe. We know well that ideas in the kitchen are never enough, so if you prefer, instead of bread, you can accompany the tasty sausages with some polenta . Just talking about it makes us hungry. What do you say, shall we see how to prepare sausages in tomato sauce? Let's begin!
To prepare sausages in tomato sauce, start with the onions. After cleaning them, slice them thinly . Place the thin slices in a pan with a dash of oil and let them sauté over low heat for a few minutes . Meanwhile, pour the water over the tomato paste
and stir thoroughly to get the sauce . At this point, return to the stove; the onions will have softened. Add the sausages and let them brown for a few minutes until they are golden on all sides .
Season with bay leaves and finally pour in the sauce . Season to taste with salt and pepper ,
cover with a lid, and cook over low heat for about 25 minutes . In the end, decide the consistency of the sauce according to your taste; just extend the cooking for a few minutes, preferably without the lid, if you want a thicker sauce . Your sausages in tomato sauce are ready, enjoy your meal .
Sausages in tomato sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
Add some previously soaked dried porcini mushrooms to your sausages in tomato sauce. The sauce is also great for dressing pasta: try it to believe it!

