name:
Eggless Donut
ingredients:
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)-
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)-
Potato starch: 0.7cup(80 g)
Whole milk: 1.1cups(250 g)- at room temperature
Vegetable oil: ½cup(120 g)
Lemon peel: 1-
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste-

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Very low

instructions:
When it comes to cakes , there’s something for every taste: from the simplest one, to the yogurt one, Gluten-free marble bundt cake ! That’s why we realized the only thing missing was an eggless cake, made without butter as well, to meet everyone’s needs and preferences! The eggless cake is a light and delicate dessert for any time of the day: extraordinarily soft, it will be a delightful base to spread your favorite jam or marmalade on during breakfast, or a wholesome snack to satisfy your kids’ appetite right after school. The use of oil instead of butter gives this cake an even softer texture that will stay intact even the next day… always provided it doesn’t get eaten up first! If you liked this eggless cake variation, don’t stop here: there’s a whole world of Egg-free lemon cake to discover, starting with tiramisu , passing through Yogurt Cake Without Eggs and plumcake and from pancakes to finish with a refreshing Lemon sorbet without egg whites ! And if you want savory dishes, start with Eggless savory muffins !

Discover more delicious cake recipes:

To prepare the eggless cake, start by sifting together the flour , potato starch , and baking powder into a bowl.
Stir with a spoon, then add the granulated sugar and stir again . Now pour in the milk slowly while stirring with a whisk to avoid lumps .
When the milk is well mixed, slowly pour in the seed oil, still stirring with the whisk . Finally, add the grated lemon zest and stir again to make the batter smooth. Take a 9.5-inch diameter cake pan, oil it with a brush and dust with flour,
then pour the batter into it . Bake the cake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 35-40 minutes. Once the baking time has elapsed, check if it is well cooked with a skewer, then take it out of the oven and let it cool slightly . Finally, turn it out onto a wire rack and let it cool completely : your eggless cake is ready to be sliced and enjoyed!
The eggless cake can be stored outside of the fridge, under a glass dome, for 2-3 days. You can freeze the cake once baked and completely cooled, maybe cutting it already into slices so you can defrost only the amount you desire.
Don't limit the eggless cake to just the breakfast table: if you serve it with ice cream or whipped cream, it will turn into an even more delicious snack or a soft end to a meal!

