name:
Frangipane tart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2.4cups(300 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6tbsp(90 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Lemon peel: 1- untreated
Almond flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Butter: 1cup(240 g)
Sugar: 1cup(240 g)
Eggs: 4- medium
Eggs: 1
Brown sugar: to taste

info:
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: pieces
Note + 1 h rest of the shortcrust pastry in the refrigerator

instructions:
The frangipane tart is a dessert with a unique and crumbly texture, ideal as a sweet afternoon break to accompany perhaps with a good tea. A soft shortcrust pastry flavored with lemon encloses a heart of Frangipane cream : this cream has a similar preparation to custard but differs from it by the use of almond flour in the mixture. It also has a denser and more grainy texture compared to custard; the result is a tart with a really distinctive aroma and a pronounced sweetness that will drive all your sweetest-toothed friends crazy. Discover the uniqueness of the frangipane tart or even the Cream and Plum Tart !
To prepare the frangipane tart, start with the shortcrust: make a well with the sifted flour on a work surface, then add the powdered sugar . Then pour in the baking powder , add the grated zest of 1 lemon , and the seeds of 1 vanilla bean.
Also add the eggs and olive oil. Then with a fork start mixing from the center in a circular motion, gradually widening to collect the flour . When the liquids are incorporated, continue by hand until you create a homogeneous dough
Wrap it in plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator for about 1 hour. Meanwhile, continue the preparation with the frangipane cream: beat the room temperature butter with the sugar using electric whisks until creamy (8-9).
When the mixture is well whipped, add the eggs one at a time , still beating with the electric whisks to obtain a homogeneous mixture . Finally, add the almond flour .
Mix well with a wooden spoon to blend it into the butter, sugar, and egg mixture . At this point, place the mixture over the heat, flavor with the grated lemon zest , and cook the cream until it thickens (the consistency should be very similar to custard, although slightly more grainy); when the cream starts to boil, you can turn off the heat.
At this point, take back the shortcrust dough, remove the plastic wrap and divide it in half: roll out one half on a floured work surface or pastry board . Make a sheet about a quarter of an inch thick. Then butter and flour a 11-inch diameter pan; then roll the shortcrust sheet around the rolling pin and spread it over the pan . Run the rolling pin over the edges of the pan to remove the excess dough . Then combine the remaining dough with the other half of the shortcrust.
Then pour the frangipane cream into the pan ; roll out the remaining half of the dough to the same thickness as the base and spread it over the tart to close it . Press all points of the edge to seal the two doughs .
Then brush the tart with a beaten egg and then sprinkle the surface with brown sugar . Then bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 45 minutes (if using a fan oven, bake at 320°F for 35-40 minutes). When the tart is cooked, take it out of the oven , let it cool, then remove it from the pan and serve it cut into slices or cubes !
You can store the frangipane tart covered with plastic wrap or under a glass dome for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can replace the almond flour in the frangipane cream preparation with hazelnut flour.

