name:
Apple Cookies
ingredients:
Golden delicious apples: 7.1oz(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Fine salt: 1- pinch
Lemon peel: 1
Butter: 4.4oz(125 g)- (cold from the fridge)
Brown sugar: 1tbsp(20 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour of rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
A soft and fragrant cookie reminiscent of the genuine snacks prepared by our grandmothers: apple cookies are dedicated to those who want to indulge in a moment of sweetness with a cup of tea or hot chocolate during cooler afternoons, but also to all those who can't resist a small delicious treat at any time of day and in any season of the year. Preparing these cookies is very easy: the shortcrust pastry is enriched with diced apples and a crunchy brown sugar crust on the surface, for an even more mouth-watering result. Biting into one of these apple cookies means diving into a past filled with simple and homey desserts: are you ready to win over your guests from the first bite?
Discover also the goodness of the Dessert with Annurca Apples and Zabaglione
To prepare the apple cookies, start with the shortcrust pastry: in a mixer, place the flour and add the cold butter cut into pieces . Turn on the mixer and let it work until you have a sandy dough, which you will transfer to a pastry board .
Make the classic well and sift the powdered sugar . Add the two egg yolks and a pinch of salt .
Also add the grated lemon zest and knead quickly trying to heat the ingredients as little as possible until you obtain a compact dough .
Cover the dough with a dry and clean cloth and let it rest. In the meantime, focus on the apples: remove the core with the appropriate tool , then cut the apples in half
and peel them . Now cut each half apple into slices and then into cubes about 0.2 inches in size .
Roll out the pastry with a rolling pin and add the apple cubes , distributing them over the entire surface of the pastry .
Knead everything trying to mix the apple cubes well into the pastry . As you work, the dough will warm up and become more moist, so add another 0.4 cups of flour to re-compact the dough as you work it .
Shape your dough into a sausage shape , then wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for an hour. After this time, remove the sausage from the fridge and unwrap it from the plastic, placing it on a cutting board .
With a knife, cut 0.4-inch-thick discs . With these quantities, you will obtain about twenty cookies. Pour the brown sugar into a bowl and gently press one side of each cookie into the sugar , so that the sugar granules adhere to the surface .
Place the cookies on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper well spaced apart and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 20-25 minutes, until the surface of the cookies turns golden and the sugar has formed a light crust. When your cookies are baked, take them out of the oven and let them cool before serving: your apple cookies are ready to be enjoyed!
You can store your apple cookies for a couple of days, tightly closed in a jar.
You can freeze the raw cookies, this way they will keep for 2-3 weeks. If you want to freeze them already cut, place them in the freezer on a tray, well spaced apart, and then, once they are frozen, transfer them to a freezer bag. Alternatively, you can freeze the uncut dough sausage: when needed, let it thaw as normal shortcrust pastry before cutting the cookies.

Want to add a special touch to your cookies? Try adding the seeds of a vanilla pod to the flour and butter during the preparation of the shortcrust pastry, or substitute the lemon zest with lime zest. You'll get an even more interesting flavor: try it to believe it!

