name:
Turkey with Tuna Sauce
ingredients:
Garlic: 1clove
Carrots: 1
Onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Cloves: 3
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Rosemary: 2sprigs
White wine: 1.75oz(50 g)
Vegetable broth: to taste
Turkey breast: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Hard boiled eggs: 3
Tuna in oil: 0.9cup(200 g)
Capers in vinegar: 1spoonful
Anchovies: 6fillets
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Vegetable broth: 1mestolo

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Turkey tonné is a tasty appetizer, a reinterpretation of the classic veal with tuna sauce . The turkey is slowly cooked in an aromatic broth, which enhances its flavor without overpowering it. The other key player in the recipe is the dressing: the tuna sauce envelops each turkey slice, adding saltiness and creaminess. The result is a harmonious dish where each element finds its place without overshadowing the others. Turkey tonné is perfect for a light yet flavorful lunch, perhaps accompanied by crispy bread or a fresh salad. A dish with a classic taste, captivating with its elegance and simplicity.
If you are looking for more turkey recipes, don't miss:
To prepare the turkey tonné, start by tying the meat . Tie the turkey breast like a roast and set aside. Slice the celery into rounds .
Trim and peel the carrots, then cut them in half and slice into rounds . Quarter the onion . In a pot, pour the oil and add the vegetables .
Add the rosemary , garlic in its skin , and cloves .
Place the turkey in the pot , season with salt , and brown on all sides .
Deglaze with white wine and, once the alcohol has evaporated, cover with vegetable broth . Cover the pot with a lid and cook on low heat for 1 hour. To check the cooking, prick the meat fifteen minutes before the end of cooking: if pink liquid comes out, the meat is still raw, continue cooking for another fifteen minutes; if the liquid is clear, it means the meat is perfectly cooked and you can turn off the heat; if no liquid comes out, it means the meat is too dry. Once cooked, turn off the heat and let the turkey cool, still covered, in its cooking juices to prevent the meat from darkening. Meanwhile, prepare the tuna sauce. Cut the hard-boiled eggs into quarters .
Place them in a pitcher and add the tuna , anchovies , and capers .
Add the oil and a ladle of the meat's cooking broth . Blend with an immersion blender .
You should obtain a creamy and homogeneous sauce . Remove the string from the turkey and cut it into fairly thin slices .
Arrange the slices on a serving platter and finish with the tuna sauce and a few capers . The turkey tonné is ready to be enjoyed .
Turkey tonné can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for 2-3 days. It is advisable to store the meat and sauce separately to maintain the ideal consistency of both. Store the tuna sauce, also in the refrigerator, in an airtight container for up to 3 days.
Before spreading the sauce on the meat, you can, if you like, add a splash of balsamic vinegar to each slice: it will give a more decisive flavor to your preparation. For a fresher taste, you can add a few drops of lemon juice to the tuna sauce or finish with a grating of lemon zest.

