name:
Water Cake
ingredients:
Water: 1.4cups(330 g)- natural, at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Vegetable oil: 6.1tbsp(90 g)
Vanilla bean: 1

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Imagine a cake similar to the Cake without eggs , but not only without eggs, also without butter and without milk ! Think it's impossible? We say no: with the water cake! Light and soft, ideal for breakfast as well as an afternoon snack. We liked it so much that we also made a bundt cake version with the recipe for the Water Ring Cake ! If you're still not convinced to try it, know that this water cake is also extremely easy to prepare, accessible to those who are new to the kitchen and don't have much experience with desserts. It really only takes a few ingredients, making it perfect if friends come over for dinner and you haven't made it to the grocery store: in just a few steps you'll prepare a fragrant cake that will surprise even your most skeptical guests. The water cake is an egg-free dessert that's finger-licking good and will win over everyone; once tried, you won't be able to do without this light delight and its variants:
To prepare the water cake, start by sifting the flour with the baking powder in a bowl and set it aside for a moment. In another bowl, pour the sugar and add the room temperature water , stirring well with a whisk to dissolve the sugar .
With a knife, slice open a vanilla bean lengthwise and collect the seeds , which you will add to the water and sugar mixture . At this point, also pour in the vegetable oil and mix .
Now take the sifted dry ingredients and add them, one tablespoon at a time, to the water, sugar, and oil emulsion, continuously stirring well to avoid the formation of lumps . Once you have added all the flour, you will obtain a soft, smooth, and lump-free batter . Take a 9.5-inch diameter mold and line it with parchment paper. Or, if you prefer, you can simply oil and flour it with a bit of vegetable oil and a tablespoon of flour. When the mold is ready, pour the batter into it .
If necessary, use a spatula to distribute the batter evenly and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 50 minutes. If during baking it seems that the cake is browning too much, cover it with aluminum foil after the first 30 minutes and continue baking. Before taking it out of the oven, do the toothpick test: if it comes out clean and dry, the cake is properly baked. Remove the cake from the oven and let it cool . Finally, transfer the cake to a plate and garnish with a dusting of powdered sugar . Your water cake is ready to be enjoyed!
The water cake keeps for 2-3 days at room temperature, covered with a glass dome.
It can be frozen.
There are many different versions of the water cake. We tried the chocolate water cake , Coffee Water Cake , and even a fragrant Lemon and Ginger Water Cake . But you can also get creative with tea infusions or orange peel infusions, perhaps flavoring the mixture with a cinnamon stick and a few cloves.

