name:
Roast Chicken
ingredients:
Chicken: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- whole
Coarse salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Sage: 5leaves
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Oregano: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Roast chicken is a delightful and flavorful main dish to prepare for an informal dinner with friends, but for many, it's also one of the great Christmas classics. After all, it’s one of the few recipes that always seems to please everyone, don’t you think? Roast chicken should be cooked whole and with the skin on, so it releases its fat and helps keep the meat tender and juicy: for this reason, it's also important to monitor the cooking times because the biggest risk is that the chicken becomes too dry. Additionally, before putting it in the oven, the chicken should be coated both inside and out with a mixture of salt and aromatic herbs. Roast chicken is a simple preparation: its aroma will fill the entire kitchen and everyone will love it! If there are any leftovers, you can also use them to make a fabulous Chicken Sandwich for the following day... it doesn't get any better than that! Discover other recipes for cooking chicken:

Discover more delicious Chicken recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the roast chicken, first tie the chicken so that it holds its shape after cooking. Take an oven-safe elastic band, wrap it around the end of the drumsticks , stretch it out and wrap it behind the breast to keep it in place .
Pour coarse salt into a mixer, add the bay leaves and other aromatic herbs: rosemary, sage, and fresh oregano . Also add 2 peeled garlic cloves .
Blend everything and transfer the mixture into a small bowl . Take the chicken and place it in a baking dish. Brush or rub the chicken all over with extra virgin olive oil .
Cover with the aromatic mixture , massaging with both hands on all sides to make it adhere well . Also season the inside of the chicken with the aromatic mixture .
Cook the chicken in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about an hour. Occasionally baste the chicken with its cooking juices . Halfway through cooking, take the chicken out of the oven and turn it over so that it cooks evenly on both sides. Continue cooking, basting the chicken occasionally with the juices. After the cooking time is up, take it out of the oven and serve your chicken . To ensure it is well-cooked, you can measure the temperature at the center of the drumstick; it should be 162°F.
You can safely store the roast chicken in the refrigerator, in a container, for one day.
If you use a larger chicken, increase the amount of salt and aromatic herbs. Consider that for every 2.2 lbs (1 kg) of chicken, you will need 0.35 oz (10 g) of salt. Cooking times will also change; consider that for every 2.2 lbs (1 kg) of chicken, one hour of cooking is needed. So for a 3.3 lb (1.5 kg) chicken, for example, you will need 0.53 oz (15 g) of salt and an hour and a half of cooking. If you want to serve the chicken with baked potatoes , we recommend cooking them separately following our recipe.

