name:
Chicken skewers with pita
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2cups(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.4oz(10 g)
Malt: 0.4oz(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ½tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1.7tsp(10 g)
Chicken Thighs: 6
Cluster tomatoes: 2
Red onions: 1
Friggitelli (chili peppers): 3
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Peanut butter: 3spoonfuls
Garlic: 1clove
Lime juice: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Roasted salted peanuts: to taste
Lime juice: to taste
Hot sauce: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: to taste
Coriander: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 10 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the pita rising time (at least 3 h 10 min. total) and the chicken marinating time (from 1 h to 8 h)

instructions:
To make the pita, combine the bread flour and all-purpose flour in a bowl , then add the crumbled fresh yeast and the malt .
Also pour in the water and start kneading, first in the bowl and then on the work surface .
Slightly flatten the obtained dough and add the salt , then work it again until you no longer feel the grains under your fingers. After incorporating the salt, do the same with the oil, adding it in 2-3 stages .
When the oil is completely absorbed, cover the dough with the bowl and let it rest for 10 minutes . After this time, give the dough some folds to strengthen it, then shape it into a ball and transfer it into the bowl, which you will have greased with a little oil. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise at room temperature for about 2 hours or until the dough has tripled in volume .
Once risen, transfer the dough onto the lightly floured work surface, form a loaf, and divide it into 6 portions of 5 oz each . Shape each portion of dough into a ball and arrange them well spaced on a tray greased with a little oil . Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for another hour.
After this time, roll out the balls on the lightly floured work surface to obtain discs about 8 inches in diameter; use your hands first and then the rolling pin to even out the thickness . You're ready to cook: heat a non-stick pan well with a drizzle of oil, then place the pita inside .
Cook on moderate heat until the first bubbles appear on the surface , then flip it over and let it brown on the other side . As they are ready, stack the pitas on top of each other and cover them with a cloth; this way they will remain soft.
To prepare the chicken skewers, start with the marinade: peel and cut the onion into 4 parts , then do the same with the tomatoes . Transfer onions and tomatoes into a bowl along with the whole chili .
Add the whole Italian frying peppers and a drizzle of oil , then mix well to season the vegetables evenly .
Place the vegetables on a hot grill and let them roast, turning them occasionally with kitchen tongs . In the meantime, cut the chicken thighs into small pieces and set aside .
When the vegetables are roasted, take the Italian frying peppers and remove the end and internal seeds , then do the same with the chili. Transfer the vegetables back into the bowl and pour in the lime juice , then add the peeled garlic clove .
Finally, add a generous pinch of salt and the peanut butter , then blend with an immersion blender .
You will get a rather coarse mixture . At this point, add the chicken to the bowl and mix well so that the pieces are evenly coated. Cover with plastic wrap and let marinate in the refrigerator for at least an hour or, better yet, overnight .
Once the marinating time is over, you can assemble the skewers: thread the chicken pieces onto 6 wooden skewers that have been soaked in water for about ten minutes (this way they won't char). Slightly space the pieces to ensure even cooking . Once assembled, drizzle the skewers with a bit of oil , then place them on a hot grill .
Cook the skewers for 10-15 minutes, turning them often . You're ready to assemble the sandwich: place the pita on a plate and place a skewer in the center , then slide off the meat and add some toasted peanuts .
Season with hot sauce to taste , a splash of lime, some chili slices, and fresh cilantro, then fold it in half . Proceed in the same way to assemble the remaining pitas. Your chicken skewers with pita are ready to be enjoyed!
The chicken skewers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day.
The pita can be stored in a food bag for 2-3 days or you can freeze it; in this case, let it thaw in the refrigerator and then reheat it in a pan.
The pita dough can also be prepared with a stand mixer, fitted with a hook.
The malt can be replaced with the same amount of honey.
If you don't like the taste of cilantro, you can use parsley instead.

