name:
Sausage in the pan
ingredients:
Sausage: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Rosemary: 1sprig
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Over time, we have made many sausage recipes, but we realized we didn't have the basic one: sausage in the pan! How could we not write the recipe that has always saved our lunches and quick dinners? Simple to make, quick, and appetizing: sausage in the pan needs only one thing: a quality main ingredient. To make this preparation even more special, here's our tip: the mix of herbs and aromas will make you appreciate this meat dish even more. However, nothing prevents you from preparing the classic sausage and potatoes in the pan instead of in the oven! When you don't have time for richer versions like Sausage and Potatoes with Beer or oven versions like potatoes or in a pot with beans up to the more rustic ones with sauce , red wine , or with Rustic Savory Babà , sausage in the pan will be an excellent alternative!
To prepare sausage in the pan, start by separating the sausages one by one if they are tied with string . Crush a peeled garlic clove under the back of a knife blade and move to the stove. In a pan, pour a very small amount of oil ,
place the sausages and add the garlic along with the rosemary sprig and bay leaf . Let it sizzle over high heat for about 10 minutes, stirring as soon as the sides are slightly browned .
Remove the aromatics, lower the heat and cover with a lid , then cook for another 10 minutes, shaking the pan occasionally . Here is your sausage in the pan ready to be enjoyed hot, garnished with fresh herbs. Bon appétit .
We recommend consuming the sausage in the pan immediately, but you can store it in the refrigerator for a couple of days if desired, keeping it well closed in a resealable container.
To avoid the sausage in the pan from tasting bitter, be careful not to let the aromatics burn or stay in the pan too long. You can also just scent the oil and then remove them before cooking the meat.

