name:
Pumpkin Savory Pie
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.4oz(238 g)- (round)
Butternut squash: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (to be cleaned)
Smoked scamorza cheese: 5.6oz(160 g)
Eggs: 3- (medium)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(185 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Pumpkin seeds: 1.8tbsp(25 g)
Rosemary: 2sprigs- to chop
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
The pumpkin reigns supreme at the vegetable stands during the autumn and winter months, delighting our palates in the form of tasty side dishes, desserts, and main courses. With the pumpkin savory pie, you'll have one more idea for your menu! Soft as a Pumpkin and Chard Quiche , thanks to the addition of cream and Grana Padano, it is enriched with melty scamorza cheese and pumpkin seeds for a rustic and crunchy touch. A savory pie that can also be a great dinner-saver because it is made with ready-made puff pastry. But above all, the pumpkin savory pie is a recipe that will allow you to simply enhance all the qualities of this precious vegetable! Also, find out how to prepare the pumpkin and mozzarella savory pie !
To prepare the pumpkin savory pie, first remove the pumpkin skin with a knife , then cut the flesh into cubes of about 0.75 inches : you will need about 1 lb of cleaned pumpkin in total. Heat the oil in a pan and add the cubed pumpkin .
Combine the chopped rosemary , salt , pepper, and cook over medium-high heat for about 15 minutes, stirring often, then turn off the heat and let it cool .
Meanwhile, cut the scamorza cheese into cubes . Now beat the eggs in a bowl, add the cream , and grated Grana Padano .
Salt and pepper , then add the lukewarm pumpkin and scamorza cheese and mix well to combine everything.
Unroll the puff pastry and place it in a baking dish with a diameter of 8.75 inches at the base and 10.25 inches on the surface . Pour the mixture inside and fold the edge of the puff pastry to create a decorative pattern .
Finally, distribute the pumpkin seeds on the surface , then bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 60 minutes, placing it on the bottom shelf . Once cooked, let your pumpkin savory pie rest for 10-15 minutes before serving !
The pumpkin savory pie can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. It can be frozen after it is completely cooked and cooled.
To make the pumpkin savory pie, you can use shortcrust pastry instead of puff pastry. As an alternative to smoked scamorza, you can choose another cheese of your liking.

