name:
Baked apples
ingredients:
Golden delicious apples: 4- (950 g total)
Brown sugar: 3tbsp(40 g)
Acacia honey: 1spoonful
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp
Sugar: 1tsp
Lemons: 1
Water: ¼cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Baked apples are a timeless winter dessert, typical of home cooking, genuine and easy to make, faster than the classic apple pie but more delicious than the fruit enjoyed alone. You will only need a handful of ingredients to cook this recipe: crispy and juicy baked apples, a delicately flavored honey, sugar, and a touch of cinnamon, which will add an aromatic touch to this rustic delight. The more indulgent can also experiment with the stuffed version , enriched with amaretti and hazelnut crumbs. The versatility of this fruit has always stimulated imagination in the kitchen: try for example the apple chips , a healthy and crunchy snack, or the Baked Chicken Thighs with Apples , a delicious second course with sweet and sour flavors.
Come and discover other easy and quick ways to cook apples:
To make the baked apples recipe, first cut the lemon into wedges and set it aside . Peel the apples using a vegetable peeler . Remove the core and seeds with the appropriate corer, then remove any remaining peel with a small knife.
Rub a lemon wedge over the peeled apples to prevent browning . Pour the brown sugar into a bowl and roll the apples in it so that the sugar adheres to the entire surface . Place the apples in a baking dish that holds them well .
Sprinkle the remaining brown sugar on the surface, letting it also penetrate the inside of the apple . Distribute the cinnamon with a sieve and pour water at the bottom of the baking dish to prevent the apples from sticking or the sugar from burning. Bake the apples in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C) for 30 minutes.
After the indicated cooking time, take out the baking dish and drizzle 1 tablespoon of honey over the surface of the apples to make them even shinier. Bake again for another 10 minutes, still at 392°F (200°C). At the end of cooking, take out the baking dish with the baked apples and sprinkle with sugar to make them even more inviting. Serve the baked apples still hot, drizzled with the cooking juices .
Baked apples can be stored for two days in the refrigerator, inside an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
You can decorate the surface with chopped hazelnuts or enrich the baked apples with raisins and pine nuts.
Is it essential to rub the apples with lemon?
Lemon juice prevents oxidation of the flesh, which would make the apple dark.
What can be used instead of cinnamon?
Cloves can be used as an alternative.
Why is brown sugar used instead of granulated sugar?
Brown sugar, in addition to being more aromatic, will create a very pleasant caramelized layer during cooking.
What is the best type of apple to use?
We recommend using golden apples or other varieties with a crunchy and juicy flesh. Quince apples, suitable for cooking, are also good.

