name:
Polenta with sausage and cheese
ingredients:
Sausage: 1.4lbs(650 g)
Tomato purée: 1.7cups(400 g)
Tomato paste: 1spoonful
Red wine: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Bramata corn flour: 2.2lbs(500 g)
Fontina cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Toma cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Water: 8 ½cups(2 l)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 4spoonfuls- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Stir and stir again, without ever stopping, with patience and perseverance, because polenta requires time and love, like all those traditional homemade dishes, tasty and hearty, from fresh egg pasta made at home to ragù . So take the time you need to treat yourself and your family to a little rustic but appetizing winter comfort food. This is how we like to define polenta with sausage and cheese, a combination of authentic flavors that will delight even the most modern and demanding palates. A dish that evokes cold and bright days in the mountains, high-altitude refuges with lit fireplaces, but above all conviviality because, as we know, food tastes better when enjoyed in good company!
Try these dishes with polenta too:
To prepare polenta with sausage and cheese, first, take care of the ragù: remove the casing from the sausage , then crumble the meat with a knife . Heat a drizzle of olive oil in a high-sided pot, add the sausage ,
pepper and let it brown for 3-4 minutes. As soon as the sausage has taken on color, deglaze with red wine , let the alcohol evaporate, then add the tomato sauce
and the tomato paste . Stir with a spoon, cover with a lid and cook for 15 minutes or until the sauce thickens; once ready, keep it warm .
Now take care of the polenta: cut the fontina and the toma into cubes. Put a thick-bottomed steel pot on the stove, add the water and, when it starts to simmer, salt it
and pour in the flour in a steady stream . Keep cooking at high temperature, stirring quickly . Add the olive oil to prevent lumps , continue to cook for 50 minutes over low heat, stirring constantly, making sure the polenta does not stick to the bottom.
5 minutes before the end of cooking , salt and add part of the chopped cheeses, making sure to set aside 4 tablespoons for the final topping . Stir to melt them .
The polenta is ready : take 4 ovenproof terracotta bowls if you want to make individual portions, or use a single large baking dish, pour a generous ladle of polenta , top with a couple of tablespoons of ragù ,
one tablespoon of the cubed cheeses set aside and the grated Grana Padano . Gratinate for 3 minutes in the oven in grill mode at maximum temperature until a golden crust forms on the surface. If necessary, you can reheat the ragù before adding it to the polenta to proceed with the gratinating. The polenta with sausage and cheese is ready to be served .
You can store leftover polenta (without the topping) in the refrigerator for a couple of days in an airtight container. The sausage ragù can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days or it can be frozen if fresh ingredients have been used.
If you have leftover ragù, use it to dress pasta; it will make an excellent first course. You can substitute fontina and toma with other semi-hard or soft cheeses you prefer and that are available in your area, such as Asiago, Montasio, or Bitto.
If you have leftover polenta, try our fried polenta sticks !

