name:
Pumpkin and speck risotto
ingredients:
Vialone nano rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Delica pumpkin: 10.6oz(300 g)- (already cleaned)
Speck: 5.3oz(150 g)- (whole piece)
Garlic: 1clove
Vegetable broth: 8 ½cups(1.5 l)
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to grate)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the time to prepare the vegetable broth

instructions:
We have tried pumpkin rice in all its variations: with sausage , with Pumpkin risotto with robiola cheese and crispy bacon , and with gorgonzola … today we continue experimenting with pumpkin and speck risotto, certain of the result once again! The sweetness of the pumpkin perfectly balances the saltiness of the speck, also creating a contrast in textures between the creaminess of the former and the crunchy note of the latter. The result will be so pleasant and balanced that it will become a favorite risotto among both grown-ups and children in the family. So, if you're looking for a first course with guaranteed success, pumpkin and speck risotto is the one for you! Once you've won everyone over with the risotto, also try the variation with pasta !
To prepare the pumpkin and speck risotto, first make the vegetable broth and keep it warm. Clean the pumpkin by removing the seeds and peeling it with a knife , then chop it roughly into pieces . Heat a drizzle of oil in a saucepan along with a clove of unpeeled garlic .
Add the pumpkin and sauté for a minute, then cover with the broth and cook for about 20 minutes until it is very soft . Once cooked, remove the garlic and set aside.
Cut the speck into cubes , then sauté it in a pan with a drizzle of oil until crispy .
Now toast the rice in another saucepan with a drizzle of oil , stirring often. When it becomes translucent, add a ladle of broth and the pumpkin .
Add the speck as well and cook the rice, continuously adding a ladle of broth at a time and stirring often . When the rice is cooked, turn off the heat or remove the saucepan from the heat and stir in the butter .
Add the grated Grana Padano PDO and mix well. Finish with the chopped parsley . Your pumpkin and speck risotto is ready to be served hot !
Pumpkin and speck risotto can be stored in the refrigerator for about 2 days in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you want to give your pumpkin and speck risotto a special touch, try adding some orange zest, grating only the orange part.

