name:
Cauliflower Flan
ingredients:
Cauliflower: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Potatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 13.2oz(375 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Butter: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The cauliflower flan, with its rich and gooey mozzarella core, is a perfect idea for those who want to bring a tasty and delightful dish to the table. It seems odd that cauliflower, much like broccoli, doesn't gain much popularity. Yet it is good as a pure side dish, but it can also become very tasty and flavorful: have you ever tried it in the gratinated version, with pasta, Baked Cauliflower or in the Cauliflower Omelette ? If you want to change things up, today we suggest a cauliflower flan with a mozzarella core: it will win you over at the first bite!
To prepare the cauliflower flan, remove the outer leaves and the central stem, then gently detach the florets using a small knife. Boil the florets in boiling water . After 20 minutes, they will be softened, you can check this with the prongs of a fork. Drain them and mash them while still hot .
Meanwhile, also boil the potatoes, placing them in a large pot full of water . Bring to a boil and cook for 30 to 50 minutes depending on their size. Once ready (always test with the fork), peel them while they are still very hot : this way the skin will come off easily .
Mash these also in the bowl with the cauliflower to obtain a smooth puree . Now you can add the eggs , season with salt and pepper, pour in the grated cheese ,
the nutmeg and mix everything well with a spoon . Slice the mozzarella thinly and set aside .
Butter a baking dish and sprinkle the inside with breadcrumbs . Pour half of the cauliflower and potato puree into the bottom of the dish and level with the back of a spoon , then cover the surface with part of the mozzarella .
Now pour the remaining puree , level it again, and finish with the remaining mozzarella. Sprinkle with breadcrumbs, pour a drizzle of oil, and you can proceed with the cooking . Bake the cauliflower flan at 392°F for about 25 minutes in a static oven preheated beforehand. A brief gratin at the end of cooking to brown the surface and you can finally enjoy it: serve with a sprinkle of parsley .
The cauliflower flan can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
Would you like some variations for your cauliflower flan? Choose other stringy cheeses like provola, or caciocavallo. Or you can enhance it with some gorgonzola.
For a 'no-veggie' alternative, add slices of ham, speck, or pancetta.

