name:
Baked Stuffed Potatoes
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.9lbs(860 g)- (4 of the same size)
Beef: 4.2oz(120 g)- ground
Provola cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)- sweet
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- to grate
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
White wine: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
What’s better than potatoes to bring the whole family together? But forget about the classic oven baked potatoes for a moment, today we present a really tasty variant: baked stuffed potatoes. There are many variations, such as the American Jacket potatoes filled with cheddar and bacon or the homemade Stuffed Potatoes by Grandma Franca with meat sauce. This version is also a classic revisited: plump potato shells filled with a succulent stuffing of minced meat and melted provolone: crispy on the outside but soft and aromatic on the inside. The seductive touch of this side dish? The cheese! During gratin, a mouth-watering crust will form on the surface! They will disappear as soon as you bring them to the table, want to bet?
Don't miss out on these stuffed potato recipes too:

To prepare the baked stuffed potatoes, start by washing and thoroughly drying the tubers. We recommend choosing potatoes of the same size to obtain uniform cooking. Place the potatoes on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Cook them in a preheated static oven at 375°F for about 1 hour (the cooking time depends on the size of the potatoes, to gauge properly, test the cooking by pricking the potatoes with a toothpick). Meanwhile, heat the olive oil with the peeled garlic clove in a pan , once the garlic has flavored the oil, remove it
add the ground meat , crush it to crumble and brown it for about 10 minutes, then deglaze with the white wine and, once the alcohol has evaporated, turn off the heat and set aside .
When the potatoes are done cooking (make sure they are soft by pricking them with a toothpick) remove them from the oven , let them cool slightly, then cut them in half lengthwise . Using a teaspoon, scoop out the potato flesh leaving about a quarter-inch border and collect it in a bowl.
Once you have hollowed out all the potatoes , mash the flesh with a fork to obtain a puree. Add the browned ground meat , season with salt and pepper.
Cut the provolone into cubes and add it to the filling , mix to combine the ingredients. Now stuff your potatoes with the filling using a spoon
Flavor the potatoes with grated cheese , then place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and place them under the broiler for 5 minutes to brown the surface . Serve your baked stuffed potatoes hot!
Baked stuffed potatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
These potatoes are truly delicious, but if you want to make them even tastier, try adding some diced mortadella and flavoring with nutmeg!

