name:
Onion Soup
ingredients:
Onions: 1.8lbs(800 g)- golden or white
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
White wine: 0.8cup(200 g)
Sugar: 1spoonful
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Chicken: 4.4lbs(2 kg)- carcasses
Carrots: 1
Onions: 1
Leeks: ½
Garlic: 4cloves
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Thyme: 1sprig
Coarse salt: 1tbsp(15 g)
Ground black pepper: 1tsp(5 g)
Water: 21.1cups(5 l)
Gruyère cheese (PDO): 8.5oz(240 g)- (to grate)
Baguette: 5.6oz(160 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 3 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Onion soup, or soupe à l’oignon, is the quintessential comfort dish... as defined by Denny Imbroisi, crowned among the best Italian chefs in France. A French recipe made with onions loved worldwide for its rustic, simple, and genuine taste, born from a time when simple, easily available ingredients were brought to the table. We started, as tradition dictates, with chicken stock, a restorative broth that adds character and aroma to the dish. The true stars, of course, are the onions (white or golden), which are softened by a long caramelization process, resulting in a tender and lovable texture. The final touch is baking with bread cubes and a cascade of grated cheese, ensuring the unmistakable stringy and gratinéed effect. From farmers' tables to the most elegant restaurants, onion soup has earned a place of honor in French restaurants and beyond... once you taste it, you'll understand why!
Also, discover the variation of the Four French Cheese Onion Soup and don't miss out on these other onion-based recipes:

To make the onion soup, first prepare the chicken stock: clean the leek and roughly chop it into pieces , then do the same with the carrot and the onion .
Pour cold water into a large pot , then add the chicken carcasses and coarse salt .
Flavor with peppercorns , garlic cloves , and a sprig of thyme .
Finally, add the bay leaves , leek, carrots , and onion .
Bring to a boil and let it simmer for at least 2 hours, occasionally skimming the surface to remove impurities . Once ready, strain the liquid through a sieve and keep it warm ; you should obtain about 2 quarts of broth.
While the broth is cooking, clean the onions and cut them into julienne strips . In a large pan, melt the butter with the oil .
Add the onions and cook over high heat, stirring continuously to prevent them from sticking to the bottom . When the onions are caramelized, deglaze with the wine and let it evaporate completely.
At this point, add the salt and sugar . Lower the heat and cook for 30 minutes, then pour in the hot broth .
Cook for 20 minutes over medium heat . Meanwhile, prepare the croutons: cut the baguette in half lengthwise , then into quarters. Finally, chop it into cubes .
Spread the bread cubes on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and season with oil and salt . Toast the bread in a preheated convection oven at 375°F for 5 minutes .
After cooking time, you can plate the onion soup in the cocottes, ensuring the amount of broth matches the amount of onions . Place the croutons on top and grate a generous amount of Gruyere cheese .
Bake the cocottes at 410°F in convection mode for 10 minutes ; it's normal for the cheese to overflow and stain the edges of the cocotte during baking . Serve your onion soup hot !
Gratinated onion soup can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
Day-old bread will work perfectly for the croutons; if desired, you can rub it with a garlic clove.
If you don't have Gruyere cheese, don't worry: you can substitute it with Grana Padano DOP or Pecorino! You can also flavor the onions with some lard and add a pinch of chili pepper to the broth for a spicy note.
Looking for more ideas for a fully French menu? We suggest Chateaubriand with Béarnaise sauce for the main course and a traditional Tarte Tatin for dessert!

