name:
Pumpkin pie Jack Skellington
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)- cold
Water: 6tbsp(90 g)- cold
Eggs: 2.1oz(60 g)- (about 1)
Sugar: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: 0.7tsp(4 g)
Delica pumpkin: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (already cleaned)
Condensed milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2) at room temperature
Brown sugar: 6tbsp(75 g)
Cornstarch: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Vanilla extract: 2tsp(10 g)- (in paste) 1 teaspoon
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + resting times for the dough (about 60 min. in total)

instructions:
The pumpkin pie is the quintessential American dessert, usually prepared for Thanksgiving... but how to make it perfect for Halloween? Today we show you how to make the Pumpkin Pie Jack Skellington. The concept is the same as the apple pie , meaning two layers of crust pie that hold a delicious filling; this time instead of apples we used a pumpkin cream, sweet and fragrant with cinnamon. The classic cuts that allow the filling to cook evenly have been replaced by the face of Jack Skellington, the protagonist of Tim Burton's Nightmare Before Christmas. After all, how better to represent Halloween than with this particular pumpkin king and owner of Halloween town? Have fun carving his face into the dough, this particular dough is perfect because it does not deform during baking! Here are other Halloween sweets to try:

To prepare the Pumpkin Pie Jack Skellington, first clean the pumpkin: remove the skin and obtain 17 1/2 oz of pulp. Cut it first into slices and then into irregular cubes . Transfer the pumpkin to a mixer and add the eggs .
Add the brown sugar , condensed milk , cinnamon, and a teaspoon of vanilla extract .
Blend everything to obtain a cream . Then add the cornstarch and blend again until well absorbed .
Transfer the cream to a bowl , cover with plastic wrap, and place in the fridge until use. Meanwhile, prepare the dough for the base: after cleaning and drying the mixer, pour in the flour and cold butter cut into cubes . Blend everything until a sandy mixture is obtained, then add cold water .
Add the egg , sugar , and a pinch of salt .
Turn on the blades again until the mixture detaches from the sides of the mixer: you should obtain a soft and elastic dough, not sticky . Transfer it to a surface, form a dough ball , and divide it in half .
Wrap the two halves in plastic wrap and let rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes . After this time, take one of the two parts of the dough and roll it out on a lightly floured surface until it is about 1/8 inch thick. Using a rolling pin, transfer the rolled dough onto a sheet of parchment paper and place it in the fridge for at least 15 minutes.
Also roll out the other half of the dough, again until about 1/8 inch thick. Using a rolling pin, transfer the dough into a 10-inch ceramic pie dish and make it adhere well .
Pour the pumpkin cream inside and remove the excess dough with a knife . Take the dough set aside in the fridge and with a sharp knife cut out the eyes, nose, and mouth of Jack Skellington , then remove the inner parts of the eyes and nose; to help you can use a stencil. Place back in the refrigerator for another 15 minutes.
Gently place the dough sheet on the pie and gently press the edges. Remove the excess dough, then press the two edges to make them adhere to each other .
Trim the edges again . Transfer to a preheated convection oven at 356°F for 25 minutes, then finish baking at 338°F, this time in static mode, for another 30 minutes. Take out your Pumpkin Pie Jack Skellington and let it cool completely before serving !
The Pumpkin Pie Jack Skellington can be stored in the refrigerator for 3 days.
You can freeze it after baking.
It's important that the dough is always kept cold as it is rich in butter. If it starts to warm up, put it back in the refrigerator for a few minutes.

