name:
Witch's Fingers
ingredients:
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(280 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Eggs: 1.9oz(55 g)- (about 1 medium)
Vanilla bean: 1
Salt: 1pinch
Peeled almonds: 20
Raspberry jam: to taste
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Halloween night, the scariest night of the year, is coming back to visit us, and you'll be ready to welcome children with sweet witch's fingers. The little monsters and witches at home can help you prepare them, and we assure you they will have a lot of fun forming the witch's fingers and more. There are indeed many preparations to be made in view of the spooky night of masks. For example, the essential Witch's Pumpkin Cookies , the delicious witch's hats , and the super scary bloody puff pastry hand . But if you want to impress everyone, you know, you must prepare witch's fingers and fear will fall upon all.
Other ideas for the Halloween party? Don't miss the funny Witches with Hats or the monstrous Halloween brains .
To prepare witch's fingers, let's start with the shortcrust pastry . In a bowl, add the cold butter in pieces and the flour , add the seeds scraped from the vanilla bean , and with your fingertips, quickly crumble the mixture .
Add the egg and powdered sugar , and continue mixing until the dough becomes consistent . Then transfer it to the work surface, briefly knead it to compact it, and form a dough: wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes .
After the resting time, the dough will be more compact. Take pieces of about 1 oz so as to obtain about 20 sticks . Shape each stick by pinching it in two or three places, so the finger will have a bony shape .
Then, separate an egg and brush one of the two sides of an almond with the egg white (keeping the yolk) and apply it to the stick, pressing a little; this will be the nail of the finger . Using a knife, make some lines to resemble the folds , and refine the opposite edge of the nail to look like a severed finger .
Place on a tray with parchment paper and brush the fingers with the egg yolk set aside earlier; if it's too thick, you can dilute it with water or milk . Then, for the bloody effect, brush the severed part with a bit of raspberry jam .
If you can, let the cookies rest in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes: this step is not essential but improves the final result . Then, bake in a static oven preheated to 350°F for about 20-30 minutes, depending on the thickness . Your witch's fingers are ready, now you just need to scare everyone !
Witch's fingers can be stored for a week in a cool place, covered with a bell or in a tin box.
If you want, you can make the shortcrust pastry in a mixer or stand mixer, just follow the same procedures.
Instead of raspberry jam, any red jam of your choice will work: like currant or pomegranate.

