name:
Halloween Brains
ingredients:
Corn: 5.3oz(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Water: ¾cup(175 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Cornstarch: 2tbsp(15 g)
Gelatine: 2tsp(8 g)- in powder
Food coloring: ½tsp(2 g)- red
Lemon juice: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Dark chocolate: 10.6oz(300 g)
Vegetable oil: 0.34cup(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 90 minutes of resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
After the Bloody Eyes , the witch fingers and the Meringue Bones for Halloween , to make your Halloween party even more terrifying, we have created a recipe worthy of a scene from the best horror movie: the Halloween brains. Perfect for scaring the guests as soon as they walk through the door and then winning them over immediately after tasting. These sweets covered in chocolate hide a pop soul, actually, of popcorn! Skillfully colored in carmine red, our brains will be the stars of your buffets and will become the ideal treats to give to children who, as usual, will knock on your door, and this time you won't have to choose between trick or treat because you can give both with your delicious and splatter brains!
Want to dare even more? Try our brain cheesecake !
To make the Halloween brains, start by preparing the popcorn: pour a splash of oil and the corn into a large pan. Cover with a lid and, over medium heat, wait for the corn kernels to start popping. This operation will take about 10 minutes. Shake the pan occasionally to prevent them from burning. Meanwhile, prepare the glucose syrup by putting 8.8 oz of sugar and 1.7 oz of water in a saucepan
When the sugar has dissolved and the mixture starts to boil , check the temperature with a thermometer and remove it from the heat when it reaches 257°F . This operation will take about 10 minutes. Meanwhile, the popcorn will be ready , set them aside to cool
Meanwhile, in another saucepan, pour the cornstarch , powdered gelatin , and lemon juice .
Add 4.2 oz of water in a thin stream, stirring with a whisk , to avoid the formation of lumps. Place the saucepan on the heat and bring it to just below boiling point, without stopping stirring with the whisk. Once it reaches near boiling point, add the coloring
and continue stirring with the whisk to incorporate it . Add the colored mixture to the glucose syrup , mix well , allowing it to cool slightly (the mixture should not be too hot, otherwise, the popcorn will melt).
Pour the popcorn into a bowl, salt them, and add the colored mixture and mix to give the popcorn a nice red color . Spread the popcorn on a tray lined with parchment paper and distribute them evenly .
Place the tray in the fridge and cool your popcorn for at least 20/30 minutes. Once well chilled, take portions of popcorn with a soup spoon and roughly ball them up . For this operation, use a bowl of water to moisten your hands before forming the balls. Once the balls are formed, place them on the tray lined with parchment paper -well spaced apart- and let them firm up in the freezer for at least 40 minutes -this way it will be much easier to glaze them-. Melt the chopped chocolate in the microwave and emulsify it with vegetable oil
using an immersion blender . After 40 minutes, you can finally glaze your mini brains: with the help of a fork, dip them in the chocolate and place them on a rack with a tray underneath. This operation will remove the excess chocolate. Let your mini brains cool in the fridge for at least 30 minutes; once the firming time has passed, your mini brains will be ready to be enjoyed .
Store the Halloween brains in the fridge and consume them within 4 days. The mini brains can be frozen.
You can add puffed rice, corn flakes, dried fruit of any kind to the popcorn and vary the glaze using white chocolate.

