name:
Dentures
ingredients:
Butter: 6.4tbsp(90 g)
Potato starch: 6 ¾tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.1cups(135 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2tbsp(30 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Fine salt: 1pinch
Baking powder: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Sugar: 0.4cup(75 g)
Food coloring: to taste- pink
Marshmallow: 1.8oz(50 g)
Apricot jam: 3.4tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Trick or treat? Halloween is right around the corner, and here's a fun idea to trick your kids: dentures! The dentures are fun pink-colored whoopie pies disguised as dentures: the soft cookie discs are covered with apricot jam, and the teeth are made of white marshmallow cubes. The dentures are delicious themed treats that will be a hit in your homes during the spookiest night of the year!!
To prepare the dentures, beat the room-temperature butter cut into pieces in a stand mixer with the sugar until you get a light and fluffy mixture. Add the pinch of salt and the egg . Continue beating until all the ingredients are well combined.
In a separate bowl, mix the flour with the baking powder and the potato starch. Transfer the butter, sugar, and egg mixture to another bowl and sift the dry ingredients over it , then incorporate them with a spatula from bottom to top, and mix by slowly adding the cream and finally the vanilla bean seeds .
Finally, add the food coloring, enough to get a bright pink . Transfer the obtained mixture into a piping bag with a smooth nozzle of 1/2-3/4 inch diameter and pipe mounds of mixture with a diameter of 1-1/2 inches and at least 3/4 inches high onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 13-14 minutes, then remove and let the colored whoopies cool.
When they are well-cooled, generously brush the flat part of the discs with the apricot jam . Then cut the marshmallows into 1/2 inch thick cylinders from which, with a small knife, you will cut squares: you will have obtained the teeth for the dentures . Place the marshmallow teeth along the perimeter of 8 discs (you can cover the entire perimeter or just half of it, as shown in the photo, placing only two cubes in the back as support) , then close the sandwich with the remaining discs and let everything dry. Your dentures are ready, happy Halloween!!!
Store the dentures under a glass dome or in a tin box (or other food-grade material) with a lid for 3-4 days.
Instead of apricot jam, you can use peach jam, orange marmalade, or whatever you prefer as long as it is not too dark; otherwise, you risk ruining the denture effect.

