name:
Pumpkin Spätzle
ingredients:
Eggs: 2
Type 00 flour: 2cups(270 g)
Whole milk: (80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Pumpkin: 1.1lbs(250 g)
Rosemary: to taste
Sage: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves
Gorgonzola cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)- sweet
Whole milk: 1cup(80 g)
Walnut kernels: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Pumpkin spätzle is a first course that highlights the colors and flavors of autumn, a delicious twist for those who love to prepare traditional Tyrolean spätzle at home. These unique spätzle are a table delicacy, where the sweet taste of oven-baked pumpkin to better absorb all the aromas, meets the bold notes of Gorgonzola, which envelops the small nuggets of fresh pasta with its irresistible creaminess. The aromatic touch of sage and the crunchy zest added by walnuts will not be missing. Try this version of spätzle and surprise your guests with a culinary delight that celebrates autumn in the most appetizing way!
Don't miss these other delicious homemade spätzle recipes:
To prepare pumpkin spätzle, cut a 250 g slice from a pumpkin, remove the seeds , and place it in a foil packet made from aluminum foil and parchment paper. Season with rosemary, sage, and unpeeled garlic cloves, drizzle with oil and salt .
Close the packet carefully and place in a preheated static oven at 350°F for an hour and a half. Remove the packet from the oven , take out the pulp and transfer it to a blender .
Add the eggs , most of the flour , and most of the milk .
Salt and blend, mix to incorporate the flour that remains on the sides , then continue blending, check the consistency, and add the remaining flour and milk as needed so that the mixture is not too liquid.
The mixture should be smooth and fluid, without lumps . Meanwhile, prepare the sauce: in a pan, melt the Gorgonzola with the milk , stir to obtain a cream and make sure the milk does not come to a boil.
Bring water to boil for the spätzle, place the spätzlehobel (or you can use a potato ricer or a colander). Pour the mixture in and cook for 2 minutes from the time you see them rise to the surface. Drain them into the pan with the sauce, stir for a few moments .
Finely chop the sage and serve the pumpkin spätzle with walnuts broken by hand and chopped sage .
We recommend consuming the pumpkin spätzle immediately.
Don't throw away the pumpkin seeds, rinse them and toast them in the oven at 300°F for about 15 minutes.

Instead of a blender, you can use an immersion blender.

