name:
Puff Pastry Pumpkins
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8oz(230 g)- rectangular
Orange marmelade: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Brown sugar: 0.35cup(70 g)
Egg yolks: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
The Halloween party organized by your friends is approaching, and you haven't prepared anything delicious to bring? Don't worry, we have the perfect recipe for you: easy, quick, and especially captivating: puff pastry pumpkins. These delightful crispy pastries contain a luscious orange marmalade filling, but what will make them unique and special is the cleverly carved surface shape that evokes traditional decorated pumpkins. On the festive buffet of the witch's night, your puff pastry pumpkins will surely be a hit, just like the cute sweet puff pastry mummies and the fun pumpkin-shaped brioche, but remember to save some for the kids who will knock on your door for the traditional "trick or treat?".
To make the puff pastry pumpkins, roll out the pastry on a lightly floured work surface . Using an 8 cm (3.15 inches) pastry cutter, cut out 12 squares . Remove the excess dough
and cut out the eye and mouth shapes on half of the squares, inspired by the classic Halloween pumpkin carvings. For this step, we recommend first cutting the shape out of cardboard to make it easier (4-5). Brush the edges of the intact squares with a little water .
Place a tablespoon of orange marmalade in the center , then place the cut-out pastry on top of the shape and press the edges well to prevent the filling from leaking during baking. Place the puff pastry pumpkins on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper ,
brush the surface with the egg yolk diluted with a little water , sprinkle with brown sugar , and bake in a preheated oven at 350°F for 25 minutes. After the baking time, your puff pastry pumpkins will be nicely golden on the surface : enjoy them warm or at room temperature!
Store the puff pastry pumpkins under a glass dome or covered with plastic wrap for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Have fun filling your puff pastry pumpkins with other jams of your choice, such as peach or apricot jam, which will be perfect for evoking the typical orange color of Halloween pumpkins!

