name:
Ghost Cake
ingredients:
Dark chocolate 55%: 6.5oz(185 g)
Butter: 0.9lb(200 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Potato starch: 7.1tbsp(50 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(30 g)
Eggs: 7.8oz(220 g)- (about 4 medium)
Baking powder: 1.4tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Dark chocolate 55%: 10.6oz(300 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.4cup(50 g)
Chocolate sprinkles: to taste
Colored candies: to taste- chocolate

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8

instructions:
The ghost cake is a delicious and captivating Halloween recipe, perfect for the spookiest night of the year, where the most monstrous treats are the undisputed protagonists: monstrous cupcakes that turn into spiders, cookies that transform into witch fingers , and now a cake teeming with ghosts. Among the fluffy layers of chocolate cake , you'll find a velvety whipped Ganache cream , also made with dark chocolate for an even more intense flavor. The cake is topped with delightful mascarpone and whipped cream ghosts, fluffy clouds with funny expressions that will make this scenic ghost cake even more fun!
To prepare the ghost cake, start by chopping the dark chocolate and melting it in a double boiler or microwave , then let it cool. Meanwhile, place the softened butter in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with beaters .
Add the sugar , a pinch of salt, and beat with the electric beaters until you get a soft and creamy mixture. Add 2 of the 4 eggs and continue to beat until fully absorbed. Add the melted chocolate and mix with the beaters.
Continue by adding the remaining eggs , always mixing with the beaters until fully absorbed. At this point, sift the flour , potato starch, and baking powder into a bowl.
Sift the cocoa powder as well . Take the mixture that has blended well and incorporate the dry ingredients .
You should obtain a smooth and homogeneous batter . Pour the batter into a 8-inch (20 cm) springform pan lined with parchment paper (alternatively, you can butter and flour it). Level the surface and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F (180°C) for about 50 minutes .
After this time, check the doneness with a toothpick, then remove from the oven and let cool before removing the cake from the pan. Once cool, cut the cake into 3 layers .
In the meantime, prepare the chocolate ganache. Chop the dark chocolate and heat the cream in a saucepan . When the cream is about to boil, pour it over the chopped chocolate .
Stir with beaters to completely dissolve it . Once the chocolate has melted, transfer the mixture to a bowl containing ice and continue to beat with an electric mixer until well whipped .
Now spread the ganache on the first layer with a spatula , place the second layer and press to adhere well. Complete with the third layer and also spread the ganache on the surface , distributing it with a spatula. Transfer the cake to the fridge, just long enough to prepare the ghosts.
In a bowl, beat the mascarpone with the cream and powdered sugar , whip with electric beaters until firm . Transfer the cream to a piping bag with a plain 0.6-inch (15 mm) nozzle.
Form the ghosts by squeezing dollops onto the surface of the cake and decorate them with chocolate sprinkles and candies to create eyes and eyebrows . Place your ghost cake in the refrigerator until serving time !
The cake can be stored without the ghosts for 2 days in the fridge. With the ghosts, a maximum of 1 day.
It's possible to freeze only the baked cake, without filling.
We recommend preparing the ganache at the moment, as it tends to harden in the fridge.

