name:
Apple Strudel with Puff Pastry
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- (1 rectangular roll)
Golden delicious apples: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to clean)
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(60 g)
Sugar: 3 ¼tbsp(40 g)
Raisins: 4tbsp(35 g)
Pine nuts: 1oz(30 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Lemon juice: to taste
Butter: to taste
Cinnamon powder: to taste
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: to taste
Sugar: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Do you want to prepare an apple strudel but don't have the time or desire to make the dough by hand? The solution is apple strudel with puff pastry! This typical Trentino dessert already has many versions: some make apple strudel with shortcrust pastry , others with filo pastry, and some, for convenience or personal taste, with ready-made puff pastry : a super quick and easy variant that won't make you miss the classic recipe. The crispy pastry and the rich filling of apples, pine nuts, and cinnamon-scented raisins make it a perfect dessert for a snack, while the speed with which you can assemble it makes it ideal for a last-minute dessert with friends! Try our apple strudel with puff pastry and let us know what you think, but don't miss these other delicious variations:

To prepare the apple strudel with puff pastry, first soak the raisins in a little water. Meanwhile, pour the pine nuts into a non-stick pan and toast them for about 3 minutes, or until they start to color, being careful not to burn them .
Set the pine nuts aside and melt a small knob of butter in the same pan , then add the breadcrumbs and toast it for about 3 minutes, stirring often . When it is evenly colored, turn off the heat and set aside.
Move on to the apples: peel them and cut them into wedges , then slice the wedges thinly from the shorter side to get small triangles .
Transfer the sliced apples to a bowl, then add the grated lemon zest , the juice of a slice , and the drained raisins .
Also add the cinnamon , sugar , and toasted pine nuts. Mix well to combine .
You're ready to assemble the strudel: take the puff pastry from the fridge and lay it on the work surface with its parchment paper, keeping the long side facing you, then gently roll it out with a rolling pin to form almost a square . Sprinkle the surface with breadcrumbs, being careful to leave an edge free around the sides , then place the apples in the center, using your hands or a spatula to form a sort of log .
At this point, lift the edges of the parchment paper to cover the filling with the puff pastry, first from one side and then the other. Gently pull the pastry to overlap it exactly with the first layer, then press the seam gently to adhere. Finally, seal the ends and roll them to form a rope. In a small bowl, mix the egg yolk with the cream .
Brush the strudel with the mixture obtained , then make cuts on the surface, being careful not to press too hard, as if you wanted to cut just the first layer of pastry . Finally, sprinkle with granulated sugar . Bake the strudel in a preheated oven at 350°F for about 40 minutes, monitoring the baking: if it darkens too much on one side or on top, you can turn it or move it to a lower rack during the last 10-15 minutes.
Once baked, remove from the oven and sprinkle with powdered sugar . Your apple strudel with puff pastry is ready to be enjoyed warm, lukewarm, or at room temperature !
The apple strudel with puff pastry can be stored in the refrigerator for 3 days; before serving, it is recommended to heat it in the oven at 350°F for a few minutes.
You can freeze it after baking, preferably whole or cut into large slices; before serving, bake it still frozen in the oven at 350°F.
Instead of golden apples, you can also use other varieties of apples, such as rennet, avoiding those that are too tart like Granny Smith.
If you prefer, you can soak the raisins in rum or Marsala.
Carefully brush the strudel with the yolk and cream mixture: it will not only give a nice golden color but also further seal it!
Before baking the strudel, remember to clean the parchment paper of any egg or sugar residues to prevent them from burning during baking.
Looking for another idea to use puff pastry and apples? Try our recipe for Apple Puff Pastry Squares !

