name:
Pancotto with Beans
ingredients:
Stale bread: 9.9oz(280 g)- (type loaf)
Precooked Borlotti beans: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Onions: ½
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: ½
Rosemary: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Water: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + the soaking time for dried borlotti beans (8-10 hours)

instructions:
Pancotto with beans is a hearty dish of peasant origins, a creamy and substantial soup made with stale bread and borlotti beans. A comfort food first course that is very easy to prepare, a recycling recipe for leftover bread to make a rich and flavorful soup. This dish belongs to the southern tradition, but pancotto (known by different names) is made all over Italy: for example, in Tuscany, there is panzanella or pappa al pomodoro , usually enjoyed cold or at room temperature, while in other regions pancotto can be prepared with the addition of fish, such as pancotto with mussels , local cheeses, or vegetables, such as Gargano's pancotto . Pancotto with beans is delicious both hot and at room temperature, a vegetarian and tasty recipe to warm belly and heart on the coldest days of the year!
To prepare pancotto with beans, soak the beans as directed on the package, usually 8-10 hours in cold water, with a final rinse. For the sauté, thinly slice the garlic, remove the seeds from the chili pepper and cut it into thin rings. Clean and dice the carrot and celery into 1/8-inch pieces, peel and finely chop the onion .
In a tall pot, pour a generous amount of oil, add garlic and chili pepper to sauté over moderate heat. Then add celery, carrot and onion and mix. Let it cook for about 10 minutes, stirring often. Also, add the rosemary and then pour in the beans .
Cover with water (about 6 cups) , adding more as needed. Wait for the first boil, then cook for about 1 hour and 30 minutes with the lid on: it will also depend on the type of beans used, they should be tender but firm at the end. You can then remove the rosemary .
Season with a good pinch of salt, stir, and set aside, keeping it warm . Then take the bread and cut it into cubes about 1 inch and place it in a wider and shallower pot .
Add the bean "soup" until it covers the bread , if needed add more water. Cook for another 15 minutes, stirring occasionally, to break up and soften the bread well .
Leave the bean pancotto slightly brothy because it will tend to thicken quickly. Plate it up adding a drizzle of raw oil, pepper and aromatic herbs to taste !
You can store pancotto with beans for 1 day in an airtight container.
You can store the beans, without bread, for 1-2 days in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of 8.8 oz of dried borlotti beans, you can use 10.5-12.3 oz of precooked beans.
You can leave the garlic whole and then remove it, same with the chili pepper (you can remove the seeds for a less spicy version).
It is recommended to use two pots as indicated, as it will be easier to adjust the amount of the bean mixture, with the addition of water necessary to achieve the right consistency.
As with any peasant dish, it is common to make it in very large quantities, and then "finalize" it with the bread in smaller portions for the day's family consumption: this way, it is much easier to adjust!
When cooking legumes, salt should always be added at the end, to prevent them from hardening.

