name:
Cupcake killer
ingredients:
Sugar: 1cup(180 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Butter: 0.8cup(180 g)- (at room temperature)
Eggs: 3
Fine salt: 1pinch
Baking powder: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(30 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Powdered sugar: ¼cup(30 g)
Isomalt: 5.6oz(160 g)
Food coloring: to taste- red color
Strawberry topping: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Trick or treat? On our Halloween table, we decided to bring many spooky desserts to make this day unique and special: among chocolate spiders, witch hats, little ghosts, and carved pumpkins, no one is missing! The killer cupcakes we present are ideal for preparing a truly scary party: this delicious treat, inspired by chocolate cupcakes , will enchant you with its goodness and its special monstrous decoration, characterized by a very realistic scenic effect that will leave your guests speechless. Are you brave enough? Then all that's left to do is get in the kitchen and prepare these creepy cupcakes!
To prepare the killer cupcakes, place the room temperature butter cut into pieces and the granulated sugar in a large bowl . With a small knife, cut the vanilla bean lengthwise and scrape out the seeds ; add them to the mixture and mix with an electric mixer .
Add the whole eggs one at a time along with a pinch of salt , continuing to whisk so that they are well incorporated into the batter. Gradually add the sifted flour , baking powder, and cocoa .
Mix well with a spatula or a wooden spoon to obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture , then pour the batter you have prepared into a piping bag without a nozzle, to which you can cut a hole. Line a muffin pan with 12 paper liners and fill them halfway with the batter using the piping bag . Once done, bake the cupcakes in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 30 minutes (or 320°F for 20 minutes if using a fan oven). When the cupcakes are ready , remove them from the oven and let them cool completely before removing them from the pan.
Meanwhile, prepare the decoration; in a heavy-bottomed saucepan, pour the isomalt , let it melt over medium heat, checking with a kitchen thermometer that it does not exceed 300°F: to melt it, you simply need to swirl it in the pan without using any tools. When the isomalt is completely melted , pour it onto a silicone mat (alternatively, you can use parchment paper, being very careful when pouring as it can easily slip).
Gently move the mat with your hands so that the isomalt spreads evenly across the surface to obtain a sheet . Pour a little red food coloring into a bowl and make small streaks in the hot isomalt (to achieve the blood effect) by dipping a toothpick in the coloring ; when you have finished , let it harden at room temperature for at least 10 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the cream: place the mascarpone and the seeds of the vanilla bean in a large bowl ; add the powdered sugar and mix well with a whisk until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream. Pour it into a star-tipped piping bag and refrigerate until ready to use .
When the cupcakes have completely cooled, decorate them just before serving with the mascarpone cream you prepared and a teaspoon of strawberry topping . Once the isomalt has hardened ,
break it into pieces with your hands: this way, you will get the fake glass shards . Finish the cupcakes by placing the isomalt pieces on the mascarpone cream (if you wish, you can also add another teaspoon of strawberry topping for a more frightening effect), then serve and enjoy your killer cupcakes .
You can store the killer cupcakes filled with cream but without decoration in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2-3 days. Store the isomalt shards at room temperature for 2-3 days.
Isomalt is a sugar substitute derived from beets: you can find it in stores specializing in pastry and cake design. If you have any leftover, store it in airtight containers, as it is sensitive to moisture. If you want to create white cupcakes to make your Halloween party even more special, simply replace the cocoa with the same amount of flour!

