name:
Lentil Cream
ingredients:
Dried lentils: 250- of Castelluccio di Norcia
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Shallot: 1
Powdered turmeric: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Water: 8.3glasses(1.5 l)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Bread: 8slices
Oregano: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
The dishes of the peasant tradition, the humble ones to be clear, have the incredible ability to unite everyone. Perhaps it is because our mind brings us back to a healthy and comforting nostalgia, but what is certain is that these dishes warm our hearts. This is exactly what happened to us when we tried the lentil cream. A simple dish made of very few ingredients, including one particularly wholesome one, the lentils from Castelluccio. It is precisely in this locality, a fraction of Norcia, that the "lénta" is produced, that is, the famous lentil of Castelluccio, and not only that. In fact, there are many products from the city of Norcia that are highly appreciated all over the world. But since we didn’t want to miss anything, we further enriched the lentil cream with a touch of golden powder, turmeric. Its multiple Ayurvedic properties and its slightly acrid and persistent taste blend perfectly in this delicious cream, making this recipe even richer and more flavorful. To accompany the lentil cream, we thought of some toasted bread slices, to stay close to the authentic peasant tradition. Discover also:
To prepare the lentil cream, first rinse the lentils well under running water. Then clean the vegetables, i.e., celery, carrot, and shallot, and roughly chop them with a knife . Drizzle some oil in a pot and add the chopped vegetables, letting them sauté over medium heat for 4-5 minutes, stirring occasionally . Then add the turmeric powder ,
the lentils and stir for 1 minute to season everything ; finally cover with cold water .
Cover with a lid and let it cook for about an hour . After the time has passed, season with salt and pepper, blend with an immersion blender and let it cook over medium heat for another 40 minutes to thicken it .
In the meantime, take care of the bread, cut it into slices and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Season with salt and pepper, drizzle with a bit of oil and then sprinkle with oregano .
Bake in a preheated oven, in grill mode, at 464°F for 3-4 minutes, being careful not to burn them (if you don't have a grill, you can try to brown the bread on the upper rack of the oven, making sure not to burn it!) . Once everything is ready, all that is left is to plate and garnish your lentil cream with the croutons and another drizzle of oil!
The lentil cream can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days covered with plastic wrap. It can also be frozen.
If you don't like spices, you can omit them, or if you want a more exotic flavor, use smoked or sweet paprika. Prefer herbs? You can make a bouquet garni with rosemary, sage, and bay leaf and then remove it before blending everything!

