name:
Truffle Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
White truffle: 0.4oz(10 g)
Meat broth: 3 ¼cups(750 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 18 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very high
Note + the time required to prepare the meat broth

instructions:
From September to December, when the earth is wetter, we can indulge in its most prized and sought-after fruits: truffles. These are exquisite mushrooms to be used in cooking with some precautions depending on the variety: black truffles can be eaten raw in slices on food or cooked to make tasty appetizers like Stuffed onions with truffle , first courses like truffle fettuccine , or main courses like fillet with porcini and truffle . The white variety, on the other hand, also known as the 'gray diamond,' is even more precious and should be consumed strictly raw to fully savor its aroma, which is decidedly more delicate. We propose a classic first course, simple yet refined, to fully enjoy this ingredient for true connoisseurs: truffle risotto. A creamy and delicate base of Parmesan risotto on which to sprinkle many precious fragments and slices of white truffle. The perfect dish for a "dinner for two" for the Valentine's Day menu or a special occasion such as holidays, to be prepared for Christmas or the New Year's Eve dinner: success is guaranteed!
Did you know that even King Charles III loves this ingredient? Discover the recipe for the Risotto del Re !
Discover more delicious Risotto recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the truffle risotto, first, make our recipe for meat broth . Then, in a saucepan, pour the olive oil , heat it, then add the rice and toast it over medium heat for a couple of minutes .
Next, add the hot meat broth, one ladle at a time as the liquid evaporates , salt , and cook the risotto: it will take about 18-20 minutes. When the risotto is ready, turn off the heat, stir in the butter off the heat
and add the grated Parmesan cheese , season with pepper , stir and let it rest in the saucepan. Meanwhile, take the white truffle and use a truffle slicer to make thin slices .
Now that you've made thin slices of white truffle , pour the risotto into each serving dish , garnish with truffle slices, adjust the pepper to taste and serve the white truffle risotto hot .
The risotto can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days at most but without the truffle. It is preferable to consume the truffle as soon as possible to preserve its aromas and flavors; if any is left over, it can be stored in the refrigerator wrapped in absorbent paper or a cotton cloth inside a glass jar for no more than 4-5 days, taking care to change the paper daily and check that mold does not form. For more details on how to clean and store truffles, refer to our guide ' How to clean the truffle '.
If you want to add an aromatic touch to the dish, you can deglaze the rice with a light white wine with a delicate flavor.
White truffles are the most prized and expensive variety of truffle; they grow spontaneously in forests near oaks, holm oaks, willows, and poplars in very humid soils. There are several truffle production areas in Italy: Emilia Romagna, Marche, Abruzzo, Lombardy, and Piedmont, which boasts the famous Alba White Truffle.

