name:
English Roast Beef
ingredients:
Beef sirloin: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Coarse salt: 4tbsp(60 g)
Sage: 0.5oz(15 g)
Rosemary: 1tbsp(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Yellow mustard powder: ½tsp
Potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Butter: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 1sprig
Lemon juice: 1
Mustard: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Typical of the Anglo-Saxon tradition, English roast beef is usually prepared for Sunday lunch to be enjoyed with the whole family. Accompanied by a variety of side dishes, from potatoes to vegetables to the indispensable Yorkshire pudding , it has become famous worldwide, even appearing on Italian tables during holidays such as Easter or Christmas. But such an easy recipe can be proposed throughout the year, even for a dinner with friends or a birthday... the steps are really simple and today chef Cesare Battisti has shown us all the tricks to achieve juicy and tender meat. Surely, only by purchasing excellent ingredients and slightly fatty cuts of meat will you achieve the desired result! And if there's any leftover, discover how to make this delicious sandwich with roast beef and caramelized onions !
To prepare the English roast beef, start by boiling the accompanying potatoes ; they should be soft but not falling apart when cooked. While they cook, trim the excess fat from the meat ; don't remove it all as it helps to retain moisture in the meat. Next, you need to tie it so that once cooked it will have a regular shape. First, place the meat on a cutting board and get some string; then slide it first under the meat and then over it, lengthwise. To secure the string, tie a small knot at one end, leaving a longer piece of string .
With this longer piece, make a loop around the meat and tie another knot to secure it. Now, simply make several more loops around the meat to create the typical cage, and once you reach the end, go back to make two more loops . To tighten everything, create a loop by wrapping the string a couple of times around your hand, and once you pass the roast through it, gently pull the string .
Here's the meat tied with the string ; now you need to prepare the aromatic salt. Wash and pat dry the aromatic herbs with a paper towel. Place the salt , rosemary, and sage into a food processor.
Close with its lid and blend everything, then add the mustard powder and blend again . For convenience, pour the rub into another bowl .
Take a pinch of it and use it to season the meat , massaging it with your hands to spread the rub evenly; save the rest for later. Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan
and sear the meat well on all sides (16-17), being careful not to poke it. Don't rush, and only when the meat is well browned, transfer it back to the cutting board .
You can add half a tablespoon of water to the herb salt mixture and mix it all together. Then use it to cover the top of the roast, placing it first in the center with a spoon and then spreading it well with your hands, pressing it gently to adhere better .
Once done, transfer the meat onto a grill placed inside a baking tray ; not touching the bottom of the tray will ensure even cooking. Cook everything in a preheated convection oven at 430°F (220°C) in the middle rack for 15 minutes. After this time, lower the temperature to 350°F (180°C) and cook for another 10-12 minutes. The internal temperature of the meat should be between 118-126°F (48-52°C), depending on whether you prefer it rare or medium-rare. Meanwhile, the potatoes will be cooked and can be drained . At this point, cut the potatoes in half lengthwise .
Then heat a pan with a drizzle of oil, butter, and a peeled garlic clove, halved and with the germ removed . Place the potatoes in the melted butter, cut side down . Let the potatoes brown well , adding a sprig of rosemary, and while keeping an eye on them, prepare the citronette.
In a bowl, pour the lemon juice, mustard , and extra virgin olive oil , and whisk everything together until you get a stable emulsion .
After the cooking time, remove the meat from the oven . Turn over the potatoes, which should be well browned , and wait another minute before turning off the heat. Meanwhile, cover the meat with aluminum foil ; this way, the juices will redistribute within the fibers, and the core temperature will rise by a couple more degrees.
Now transfer the meat to a cutting board, remove the aluminum foil, take a small piece of the herb crust from the meat , and crumble it into the citronette , whisking to dissolve it completely. Remove the remaining crust and discard the string .
Slice the meat and retrieve the potatoes ; you're ready to plate. Place a couple of slices of meat and a potato on each plate. Drizzle some citronette only on the meat and garnish with a sprig of rosemary. Your English roast beef is ready to be served !
English roast beef can be stored for up to one day in the refrigerator. Freezing is not recommended.
If you don't have a kitchen thermometer, you can use a larding needle, which is very long; by inserting it into the meat and making sure to reach the center, you can feel the temperature. Upon removing it and placing it under your lower lip, it should be warmer than your body temperature but bearable, not hot enough to burn you.
Thick slices of roast beef can be served warm, but if you want to prepare it in advance, it is best to slice it thinly and serve it cold.
If you're looking for a sauce to accompany, follow the recipe to prepare brown sauce!

