name:
Polenta with Cheese
ingredients:
Bramata corn flour: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Toma cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Fontina cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Butter: 0.88lb(200 g)
Water: 8 ½cups(2 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
There are recipes without boundaries, rustic and humble dishes once consumed by peasants and shepherds in the mountainous areas of Northern Italy, one of which is polenta concia. This is a way of cooking polenta with butter and cheese, where the cheese can be typical of the region where it is enjoyed or prepared. Polenta concia is a hearty and nourishing traditional dish, born as a response to the hunger of harder times when the art of making do gave life to timelessly good recipes handed down through the generations. Over the years, as living standards gradually improved, every family enriched these recipes, creating ever more delicious dishes!
Try these polenta recipes as well:

To make polenta concia, start by cutting the fontina and the toma into cubes. Then put a thick-bottomed steel pot on the fire, pour in the water and heat it. When it starts to reach a boil, add the salt ,
pour in the flour in a fine stream, stirring with a wooden spoon . Keep cooking at high temperature while stirring quickly . Add the olive oil to prevent lumps from forming . Continue cooking for 50 minutes over low heat, stirring constantly to prevent the polenta from sticking to the bottom.
Five minutes before the end of cooking , salt and add the cheese pieces and stir to melt them .
Meanwhile, put the butter in a pan and melt it over low heat . When the polenta is ready and the cheeses inside have melted well, pour it into terracotta bowls that will keep the dish warm.
With the back of a spoon, make a well in the center of the polenta and pour the melted butter here . Season with pepper to taste and serve your polenta concia piping hot .
You can store leftover polenta concia (without the melted butter topping) in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
What to do with leftover polenta? Cut it into slices for grilling; they will become delightful bruschettas!

