name:
Pumpkin and Carrot Velouté
ingredients:
Carrots: 14.1oz(400 g)
Pumpkin: 2.2lbs(1.2 kg)
Shallot: 2.1oz(60 g)
Sour cream: (80 g)
Pumpkin seeds: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Sage: 2sprigs
Thyme: 2sprigs
Rosemary: 2sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The veloutés are one of the most loved dishes during this period, along with creams, soups, and broths. There are really many alternatives, in fact, any seasonal vegetable can be transformed into a delicate cream to be enjoyed as a first course, but this time we have chosen to surprise you with a gourmet version that all your guests will love. The pumpkin and carrot velouté is enhanced by a quenelle of sour cream and a sprinkle of toasted pumpkin seeds that, thanks to their crunchiness, will make everything extremely tasty. But if you are not a fan of crème fraîche, no problem! Use the creamy cheese you love the most, goat cheese, for example, will be perfect to personalize your pumpkin and carrot velouté. Grab a spoon and enjoy this delicate cream while it's still steaming hot.
Discover many other comforting dishes, such as:

To prepare the pumpkin and carrot velouté, start by cleaning the pumpkin. Using a knife, remove the skin , then cut it in half and use a spoon to scoop out the seeds . At this point, cut the pumpkin into slices first .
and then into cubes , you'll get about 1.87 lbs. Move on to the carrots, peel them and cut them into slices about 0.6 inches thick .
Prepare the bouquet garni by tying sage, thyme, and rosemary with a piece of string. Slice the shallot and transfer it into a pot where you have already poured the oil . Add the bouquet garni and let everything brown over low heat for about 10 minutes.
Then remove the aromatic sprig and add both the pumpkin and carrots . Season with salt and let it cook for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Then pour in the water , cover with a lid and let it cook for about 40 minutes. Meanwhile, toast the pumpkin seeds: transfer them to a baking dish and bake at 374°F for about 15 minutes until they are well toasted , then set aside.
As soon as both the pumpkin and carrots are cooked , turn off the heat and blend everything with an immersion blender (17-18) until you get a smooth and homogeneous cream.
Plate the velouté and garnish the dish with a spoonful of sour cream , some pumpkin seeds, and a pinch of black pepper . Enjoy your pumpkin and carrot velouté while it's still hot .
The pumpkin and carrot velouté without sour cream and pumpkin seeds can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days in an airtight container. If you have used all fresh ingredients, you can freeze it for about a month.
Instead of pumpkin seeds, you can serve the velouté with oregano-flavored croutons!
If you love ginger, try grating some fresh ginger and use it to garnish each dish!

