name:
Cabbage Soup
ingredients:
Ditaloni rigati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Verza (savoy cabbage): 12.3oz(350 g)
Shallot: 2.8oz(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Water: 8 ½cups(1.5 l)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Thyme: 2sprigs
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Black pepper: to taste
Coarse salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Imagine a winter evening, it's cold outside, and all you want is to come home and nourish yourself with a warm and wholesome dish, but what to prepare? We suggest a nutritious cabbage soup, a homely and simple first course, a bit rustic, reminiscent of those indelible peasant flavors in our grandparents' memory. Some call it comfort food, meaning food that pampers, regenerating the spirit and body, a choice of “eating well” while taking care of oneself by drawing from the fruits that nature offers us in the winter season. Cabbage, the star of this enveloping and aromatic soup, is a very versatile vegetable: with its thick leaves, perfect for making delicious rolls , you can also make creamy first courses like cabbage risotto or substantial side dishes.
Discover many other recipes with cabbage:
To prepare the cabbage soup, first clean and thinly slice the shallot . Heat the olive oil in a large pot , then add the shallot and let it sauté gently for 5 minutes.
In the meantime, take the cabbage, remove the tougher central stem , then cut it into strips . Wash the cabbage under running water and set it aside to drain. Meanwhile, gather the thyme sprigs, rosemary, and bay leaves and tie them with string , making it easier to remove from the pot at the end of cooking.
When the shallot is well sautéed, add the bundle of herbs and the cabbage , let it flavor over moderate heat for 5 minutes, then pour in the water
Remove the herbs with kitchen tongs , salt and bring the water to a boil. When the water starts boiling, add the pasta and cook it for 10 minutes or for the time indicated on the package.
Towards the end of cooking, pepper to taste , then turn off the heat and immediately serve your hot cabbage soup .
The cabbage soup is a dish to be consumed immediately; we do not recommend storing it after cooking; otherwise, the pasta will become overcooked.
To enrich your cabbage soup, you can add Cabbage and beans for a delicate taste.

