name:
Pumpkin and Condensed Milk Tart
ingredients:
Butter: 6oz(170 g)- cold
Type 00 flour: 2cups(300 g)
Condensed milk: ½cup(115 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Dark chocolate: 1oz(30 g)
Pumpkin: 28.2oz(800 g)
Condensed milk: 1cup(250 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp(2 g)
Powdered ginger: ½tsp(2 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Note + 60 minutes of pumpkin cooking

instructions:
In the United States, Thanksgiving isn't Thanksgiving without a beautiful homemade Pumpkin Pie . But with all that pumpkin, this beloved dessert has also become typical of Halloween! What we are proposing to you today is a somewhat revisited version of a pumpkin tart, designed especially for the night of ghosts and 'Trick or treat'. With a crumbly crust and a creamy filling of pumpkin and condensed milk, the spiced sweetness of this tart will win everyone over, filling the house with a good autumn aroma. And the cute and spooky silhouette of Jack O'Lantern, the famous animated Halloween pumpkin, will intrigue even the little ones!
To prepare the pumpkin and condensed milk tart, start by cutting the pumpkin into slices and removing the seeds and inner filaments . Then place the slices on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and cover them with a sheet of aluminum foil . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 60 minutes (if using a convection oven, bake at 356°F for about 50 minutes).
While the pumpkin is baking, start preparing the dough: in a food processor, combine the sifted flour, cold butter cut into small pieces, and salt , and pulse until you get a crumbly mixture: transfer it to the work surface , make a well in the center, and grate the lemon zest into it .
Add the egg yolk and condensed milk , and quickly work the mixture with your hands until it forms a uniform dough: cover it with plastic wrap and let the dough rest in the fridge for about half an hour.
In the meantime, when the pumpkin is ready, remove the skin and mash the pulp with a potato masher; you should get 12.3 ounces . Add the ginger
and the ground cinnamon , then add the condensed milk and finally the eggs ; mix the mixture well and set it aside.
Take the dough out of the fridge, flour the work surface, and roll out the dough into a disc about 1/5 inch thick. Once rolled out, wrap the dough around the rolling pin and gently place it in a 9.5-inch tart pan, previously buttered . Make sure the dough adheres well to the pan, then trim the excess dough from the edges with a knife and prick the base of your tart with a fork .
Pour the pumpkin filling into the dough base , and bake it in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 20 minutes (for a convection oven, bake at 320°F for about 10 minutes). Meanwhile, roll out the leftover dough and cut out a pumpkin shape about 4.7 inches in size . Using appropriate cutters, cut out the facial features of your pumpkin (if you don't have the cutters, you can perform these operations with a knife freehand, or make classic lozenges).
After the first 20 minutes of baking, remove the tart from the oven, which should now be slightly set, and place the Jack O'Lantern silhouette on top . Put it back in the oven and continue baking for another 30 minutes (in total, the tart should bake for 50 minutes; bake at 320°F for another 20 minutes if using a convection oven). Meanwhile, melt the dark chocolate in a double boiler
and once melted, transfer it to a bowl, working it with a spatula to cool it quickly . Then put it in a piping bag with a plain nozzle . When the tart is ready, fill Jack O'Lantern's facial features with the chocolate . Your pumpkin and condensed milk tart is ready to be enjoyed warm or cold!
The pumpkin and condensed milk tart can be stored covered in the fridge for 2-3 days. You can also freeze it after baking if you have used only fresh and not previously frozen ingredients.
This dessert is a very versatile base and can be customized in many ways: by flavoring the pumpkin and condensed milk cream with orange zest or nutmeg, for example. Or by adding a handful of chopped almonds to the dough!

