name:
Pappardelle with speck and porcini mushrooms
ingredients:
Egg pappardelle pasta: 9oz(250 g)
Porcini mushrooms: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Speck: 5.3oz(150 g)- (2 thick slices)
Fresh liquid cream: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Parsley: to taste- to chop
Garlic: 1clove
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
If you love porcini mushrooms, you're in the right place. Today we'll prepare a very tasty autumn first course: pappardelle with speck and porcini mushrooms! These fantastic forest treasures, the stars of timeless first courses like Pappardelle with Porcini Mushrooms , combine with one of the pride ingredients of Trentino Alto Adige, creating a winning duo with their bold taste. Egg pappardelle is the perfect pasta shape to envelop this sauce, made velvety by the addition of fresh cream. Pappardelle with speck and porcini mushrooms is a real treat that can be prepared in a few minutes and is perfect to enjoy for a family lunch or with friends. If you want to combine sea and land flavors, you can try fettuccine with octopus and porcini sauce , then complete the menu with some delicious Chicken Bites with Grapes ! Discover also our Pasta with mushrooms and speck , made with champignon mushrooms!
To prepare the pappardelle with speck and porcini mushrooms, start by cleaning the latter. Use a small knife to remove the most earthy parts of the stem . If the rest of the mushroom is fairly clean, a brush will suffice ; otherwise, use a damp cloth to gently dab the stem and then the cap to clean off any remaining soil. Repeat this process for all the porcini mushrooms and set them aside.
Now focus on the speck. Cut each slice in half lengthwise and then cut in the other direction to make strips . Pour the oil into a pan and add a clove of garlic in its skin, which you will have lightly crushed beforehand .
Add the speck and let it cook for a few minutes until it becomes crispy and well browned. Meanwhile, slice the porcini mushrooms and if they are too large, you can cut them in half. When the speck looks perfectly cooked, remove the garlic .
Add the porcini mushrooms to the pan . Continue cooking for 6-7 minutes and in the meantime, you can cook the pappardelle in plenty of boiling salted water . When the mushrooms are slightly wilted, add the cream .
and a pinch of black pepper . Since the speck is already quite salty, it won't be necessary to add extra salt, but adjust according to your taste. Finely chop the parsley and drain the pappardelle al dente .
Add the pasta directly to the mushroom sauce, add the parsley , and sauté for a few moments . Plate your pappardelle with porcini mushrooms and speck , add a final sprinkle of pepper to taste, and serve them hot!
It is recommended to consume the pappardelle with porcini mushrooms and speck immediately. Alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator for up to one day.
If you don't like using cream, you can simply toss the pappardelle with a ladle of cooking water... take inspiration from the pasta with porcini mushrooms and sausage recipe!
Alternatively, you can use fresh thyme instead of parsley.

