name:
Chocolate Tart
ingredients:
Butter: 0.8cup(180 g)- softened
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: 1cup(110 g)-
Orange peel: 1-
Baking powder: ¼tsp(1 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Eggs: 2- medium
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Cornstarch: 4tbsp(35 g)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)-
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)-
Fresh liquid cream: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note 1 hour to let the shortcrust pastry set

instructions:
Craving a delicious snack? We have no doubt that the chocolate tart is the perfect recipe to tantalize the taste buds of both young and old, a beloved classic, even in its mini version, which we present to you today in an appealing guise, thanks to a special decoration! A crumbly shortcrust pastry flavored with orange is the perfect match for the dark chocolate custard that creates a play of textures and aromas that is hard to resist. And to make this even more special, we were tempted by a scenic effect that does not go unnoticed, the result? A delicious checkerboard where shortcrust pastry squares alternate with chocolate ones, making the chocolate tart the perfect dessert even for a special occasion! We're sure your mouth is already watering, are you ready to get your hands dirty?
And now that we've whetted your appetite, we want to pique your curiosity with the Ruby Chocolate Tart !
To make the chocolate tart, start by preparing the shortcrust pastry: sift the all-purpose flour onto a pastry board, form a classic well, and pour the granulated sugar , the baking powder , and the softened butter into the center. In this case, we used softened butter because it is kneaded by hand; otherwise, if you use a mixer to make the crumbly dough, you should use cold butter from the fridge.
Finally, add the egg yolks and start kneading by hand quickly, gathering all the ingredients. Flavor with grated orange zest , continue kneading by hand quickly so as not to warm the dough too much with your hands, until you get a homogeneous dough ball .
Wrap the shortcrust pastry dough ball in plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator to firm up for 1 hour. Meanwhile, prepare the cream: chop the dark chocolate with a knife , then heat the milk in a saucepan .
In a separate bowl, beat the two whole eggs with a whisk, then add the granulated sugar and continue beating until you get a light mixture. Finally, add the sifted starch , always mixing with the whisk until you get a lump-free mixture .
Pour the heated milk into the egg and starch mixture , put everything back into the saucepan , and thicken over moderate heat until you get a thick cream .
Turn off the heat and add the chopped chocolate , stirring until completely melted . Transfer the cream to a bowl and cover with plastic wrap in direct contact. Let it cool to room temperature and then refrigerate. Now take the shortcrust pastry dough ball and hit it with a rolling pin if it is too hard, to make it more pliable .
Place it between two sheets of parchment paper and roll it out to a thickness of 1/8 to 3/16 inch (19-20); then turn the shortcrust pastry disk over, using the parchment paper, onto a perforated baking pan 9 inches in diameter ; in this case, you won't need to butter and flour it, which you would need to do for any other pan.
Once the shortcrust pastry is laid out, remove the second sheet of parchment paper . Press the shortcrust pastry into the edges and bottom (to help you, you can roll a ball of shortcrust pastry in a piece of plastic wrap and use it to press on the bottom and edges). Roll the rolling pin over the pan to remove excess pastry and even out the edges , and prick the bottom with a fork .
Fill the tart with the now-cooled chocolate custard , level the surface with a spatula to distribute the cream evenly. Roll out the leftover shortcrust pastry with the rolling pin for the decoration, cut vertical and horizontal strips to obtain squares of approximately 5/8 inch .
Apply the squares to the surface with the help of a knife , starting from the edge and creating a checkerboard pattern . Once finished, brush the shortcrust pastry with fresh liquid cream (this will give it a more golden hue) and bake the chocolate tart in a preheated static oven at 320°F for 50 minutes on the lowest rack. Once baking is complete, remove the tart from the oven, let it cool before removing from the pan and enjoying !
You can store the chocolate tart in the refrigerator for 3 days, preferably covered with plastic wrap. If you prefer, you can make the shortcrust pastry in advance and store it in the refrigerator for a day or freeze it.
To flavor the shortcrust pastry, you can alternatively use vanilla bean seeds instead of orange zest.

