name:
Roast Kid with Potatoes
ingredients:
Goat meat: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
White wine: 3 ¼cups(750 g)
Water: 1.7cups(400 g)
White onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Carrots: 6.4oz(180 g)
Celery: 6.3oz(180 g)
White wine vinegar: 2tsp(10 g)
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Rosemary: 1sprig
Sage: 1sprig
Bay leaves: 3leaves
Juniper: 2berries
Ground black pepper: 2

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 12 hours of marination

instructions:
There is an indissoluble link between traditions, religion, and cuisine, and we Italians know this well because our cuisine is filled with symbolism, beliefs, and customs that have been handed down through the ages. One of the most widespread gastronomic traditions observed by Christians is to consume kid or lamb during the Easter lunch. The lamb, the ultimate sacrificial symbol frequently found in classical art iconography, is at the center of a religious ritual that is still renewed on tables today, celebrated in Easter menus. When tradition calls, we do not back down, and here is our version of roast kid with potatoes, a main course that enhances the tender meat of the kid, skillfully marinated in a spicy and aromatic marinade that releases intense aromas and flavors. Crunchy potato slices harmoniously accompany the dish. Whether you are devoted to traditions or simply a gourmet, this recipe is for you!
Try our roast kid with potatoes and other tasty kid recipes:
To prepare the roast kid with potatoes, start by removing the fat from the meat, then cut it into medium-sized pieces . Wash, peel, and cut the celery, carrot, and onion into large pieces; these will be used to marinate the kid. Transfer the vegetables to a large bowl along with the meat .
Separately, gather the aromatic herbs with a string and place them in the bowl; this will make it easier to remove them after marinating. Pour in the wine and add water to cover .
Add the black peppercorns and juniper berries , cover the bowl with plastic wrap, and let the meat marinate for 12 hours in the refrigerator. After the indicated time, take out the marinated meat .
Remove the spices and herbs, and drain the marinade water using a colander . Wash the potatoes under running water to remove any soil residue from the skin , then slice them thinly with a mandolin (without peeling), about a couple of millimeters thick .
Place them in a large baking dish and drizzle the potatoes with olive oil , season with salt and pepper , and place the pieces of kid on top .
And the aromatic herbs from the marinade; drizzle with a tablespoon of vinegar and mix directly in the baking dish so that all the ingredients are well seasoned . Bake the kid in a preheated static oven at 400°F for about 60 minutes, turning it during cooking. Once ready, serve the roast kid with potatoes hot .
Roast kid with potatoes can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
The marinade makes the kid's meat tender and fragrant; if you want to make it even more aromatic, replace the water with red wine or beer, which will release even more intense fragrances during cooking!

