name:
Marble Cake
ingredients:
Butter: 7oz(200 g)- softened at room temperature
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Type 00 flour: 16cups(455 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 5- medium (at room temperature)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼tbsp(45 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(30 g)
Whole milk: 1tbsp(15 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low

instructions:
There are masterpieces that are not only the domain of art, literature, or poetry. Or rather, we can consider art everything that has in it a seed of creativity, an aura of uniqueness, and the ability to evoke emotion... in all senses! Today we bring you to the kitchen where art is expressed in its most delicious and indulgent version and sometimes mixes with other expressions of human ingenuity, such as in the marble cake, an elegant and tasty version of the classic Grandma's Bundt Cake ! A cake of divine goodness, perfect for breakfast or a snack, irresistible for its sweetness, softness, and unmistakable for its veins that resemble marble and differentiate it from the traditional Bundt Cake . The mind runs to the extraordinary works of Canova and Michelangelo who knew how to transform cold and hard marble into soft material to shape... to the point of giving it life! So take the art and... pour it into a Bundt cake pan: your hands will contribute to the meeting and embrace between the cocoa and white batter of the marble cake, in a sinuous dual-flavor result that will surprise you with every slice! Discover also our Easy Cocoa Bundt Cake or why not even in its version with Water and cocoa bundt cake ! Or our two-tone cake or the Zebra cake , guaranteed to be a hit! If you're looking for lightness instead, try the Water Ring Cake , soft and fragrant.
To prepare the marble cake, start by placing the softened butter in pieces along with the sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with beaters (if you don't have a stand mixer, you can perform the same procedure by placing the ingredients in a bowl and using electric beaters). Add a pinch of salt and the seeds from a vanilla bean and begin to whip until you get a white and fluffy cream.
Separately, break the eggs (at room temperature) into a bowl to check for any impurities and add them lightly beaten little by little to the stand mixer, without stopping whipping , until the mixture is smooth and lump-free: it will take about 5 minutes. Separately, in a bowl, sift 3.5 cups of flour and the baking powder and mix them together.
Then add the flour and baking powder mix to the stand mixer one tablespoon at a time , continuing to whip, adding more only when the previous one is completely absorbed by the batter. Finally, pour 1 cup of room-temperature milk in a thin stream . Once it's absorbed, stop whipping .
Divide the mixture into equal parts (about 1.64 lbs each), placing it in two bowls . In one, which will be the white batter, add the remaining 3 tbsp of flour, always sifting it and gently mix. In the other bowl, which will become the dark batter, add, sifting, 1/4 cup of unsweetened cocoa powder .
and the remaining 1 tbsp of room-temperature milk . Gently mix this batter as well. Now that you have obtained the batter in both colors , transfer them into 2 different piping bags .
Then insert the 2 piping bags into a third larger piping bag or one that can contain both , make the 3 tips converge, and cut them with a pair of scissors. Butter and flour a 9.5-inch diameter Bundt pan, and distribute the two-tone batter in concentric and zigzag circles (17-18).
Once the batter is finished, to achieve the marbling, mix the batter making a circle with a fork , bake the cake in a preheated static oven at 340°F and cook for 55-60 minutes (you can bake in a convection oven at 300°F for about 45-50 minutes, covering after 30 minutes of baking if it darkens too much on the surface), perform the toothpick test towards the end of cooking. If the cake darkens too much, even for static oven baking, cover the surface with aluminum foil. Finally, take out your marble cake, let it cool, and unmold it onto a wire rack . You can then dust it with powdered sugar to taste once cold! Snack is served!
The marble cake can be stored for 3-4 days, covered under a glass dome.
It can be frozen, perhaps in slices to defrost and lightly heat as needed!
If you want, you can achieve the marbling even without piping bags. Distribute the two-color batter in spots within the pan, using two spoons; then run a fork in a spiral from top to bottom through the two batters: and voilà: ready to bake!

