name:
Beans and Escarole
ingredients:
Escarole (endive): 0.75lb(320 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Oregano: to taste- dry
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Homemade bread: 1
Dried cannellini beans: 10.6oz(300 g)- (cooked 720 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 3 h 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + 12 hours of soaking the beans

instructions:
What could be better in winter than warming up with a flavorful and hot soup, perhaps next to the warmth of a fireplace? In Campania, it is customary to prepare beans and escarole, a classic of the peasant tradition that, with its rustic flavors, brings to the table all the genuineness of a bygone era with the products of our land. In this typical recipe, the sweetness of cannellini beans meets the bold and slightly bitter taste of escarole , all wrapped up in a spicy note given by chili pepper. To complete our dish, toasted bread croutons are ideal; it would be best to use the typical Peasant bread with its smooth and crunchy crust to enjoy a fully Campanian dish!
To prepare beans and escarole, start by soaking the cannellini beans. Then pour them into a container, covering them with water, and let them sit for 12 hours . After this time, rinse the beans under running water , then pour them into a pot with plenty of water .
Add some bay leaves and bring to a boil. Then cook over low heat for 2 and a half hours, removing the foam that forms on the surface with a ladle . Once cooked, drain the beans and keep the cooking water aside. Chop the chili pepper and peel two garlic cloves.
In a large pan, heat the olive oil with the two peeled garlic cloves , then add the beans you previously cooked , and season with the chili pepper .
the oregano , the salt , and sauté for 5 minutes over medium heat. Then wash and cut the escarole into strips .
and add it to the beans . Pour in the bean cooking water or alternatively use vegetable broth (about 10.5 oz) . Cover with a lid and cook over low heat for 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, prepare the croutons: slice a loaf of bread, line a baking sheet with parchment paper and distribute the bread slices, season with oil , salt, and pepper to taste, and then toast the croutons for 5 minutes at about 350°F or until golden brown . Once the bean and escarole soup is cooked, serve it still hot, accompanied by the toasted bread slices .
You can store the beans and escarole in the refrigerator in an airtight container for a couple of days or freeze the preparation.
Beans and escarole can also be consumed as a side dish to accompany flavorful main courses like those based on sausages. To serve it as a side dish, simply use a little less broth to get a drier dish.

