name:
Leek velouté with tasty croutons
ingredients:
Leeks: 6 ½cups(600 g)- (to clean)
Yellow potatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Water: 8 ½cups(1.5 l)- approximately
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Bread: 4.6oz(130 g)
Rosemary: to taste
Sweet Paprika: to taste
Sage: to taste
Natural plain yogurt: 0.4cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Autumn calls for the first soups and creamy dishes that warm the table and atmosphere... and among the tastiest comfort foods of the season is leek velouté with flavorful croutons! A recipe made with genuine ingredients, simple to make, and slowly cooked to blend the flavors and soften the vegetables. The leek cream, obtained by combining leeks and yellow-fleshed potatoes, is accompanied by delicious oven-toasted bread cubes that transform into crispy croutons, flavored with a spice mix. The leek velouté with tasty croutons is a refined first course, perhaps paired with a soft-flavored red wine.
Try these delicious variants as well:

To prepare the leek velouté, start by cleaning the leeks and slicing the hearts into thin rounds ; set aside the green part which you will use for plating. Place the leek in a pot with a drizzle of oil and immediately add a bit of salt to encourage the release of liquids . Stir occasionally and let it cook.
In the meantime, focus on the potatoes: peel them and cut them into 1/2 inch cubes , then add them to the leeks in the pot .
Mix well and let them flavor for a couple of minutes , then cover with water and let cook on medium-low heat for about 25 minutes. Meanwhile, cut the bread into 1/2 inch cubes .
Place the bread cubes on a baking sheet, then season them with oil , chopped rosemary and sage , and sweet paprika .
Massage well with your hands to season evenly and bake the croutons in a static oven at 392°F for 10 minutes . Meanwhile, season the green part of the leek that you set aside with oil and salt and mix.
At this point, the potatoes and leeks will be cooked , blend them with an immersion blender for at least a minute to achieve a silky consistency, adding a little water if necessary . Lastly, adjust the salt. Plate by garnishing the surface with a drizzle of yogurt .
Complete the dishes with a sprinkle of paprika , the green leeks, a drizzle of oil, and the bread cubes . Your leek velouté with tasty croutons is ready to be served !
The leek velouté without croutons can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 2 days.
It can be frozen, but it is advisable to blend it again with the immersion blender to improve the texture once heated.
The croutons can be stored for several days in a paper bag, but they might lose crispness; it is recommended to briefly reheat them in the oven before consumption.
For a richer version, you can add 5.3 oz of fresh cream at the final cooking stage before blending.
If you prefer, you can add vegetable broth instead of water to cook the soup.
For the flavorful croutons, you can also use other aromatic herbs to taste such as thyme, oregano, or dill.
Don't miss out on these delicious winter veloutés: Savoy cabbage and potato velouté , Cauliflower velouté , Zucchini velouté , Zucchini and potato velouté!

