name:
Puffed Rice and Chocolate Bars
ingredients:
Milk Chocolate: 1.2lbs(550 g)
Puffed rice: 3 ½cups(100 g)- natural
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 27 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus 4-5 hours of cooling at room temperature

instructions:
Would you like to prepare a treat to brighten up your day? Puffed rice and chocolate bars are ideal for a delicious snack! These bars are very easy to make and can be adapted to various versions according to your preferences: you can mix the puffed rice with dark chocolate for a stronger taste; with milk chocolate for a milder flavor, while with white chocolate this dessert will be even sweeter! Puffed rice and chocolate bars are light and crunchy. They can be a tasty way to use up your winter chocolate stash before the hot summer days arrive!
Try other delicious homemade bars:
To prepare the puffed rice and chocolate bars, start by roughly chopping all the chocolate with a knife ; you can use milk chocolate, white chocolate, or dark chocolate according to your tastes. The amounts of chocolate pieces obtained will be divided for different preparations: place 3.5 oz of the chopped chocolate to melt in a double boiler, stirring occasionally with a spoon . Meanwhile, line a rectangular baking dish measuring 12x9 inches with parchment paper. When the chocolate is melted, pour it gently onto the baking dish .
Spread the chocolate over the entire surface of the baking dish using a spatula or the back of a spoon . Then, as in the previous sequence, proceed to melt 10.5 oz of chocolate to be combined with the puffed rice in a double boiler . When it's melted, add the butter and mix (you can also omit it if you prefer) .
When the chocolate is melted, remove the saucepan from the water bath and place it on the stove over very low heat; then gradually add the puffed rice . Always over low heat, mix the mixture with a spatula or spoon until the rice has absorbed the melted chocolate. Then transfer the mixture to the baking dish and press it well with the help of a spatula or the back of a spoon to spread it over the entire surface .
When you have evenly distributed the mixture over the entire surface of the baking dish , let it cool slightly. Meanwhile, start preparing the topping: melt the remaining 5.3 oz of chocolate in a double boiler, when it is melted, pour it directly over the puffed rice . With the help of a spatula or the back of a spoon, gently spread it over the entire surface of the puffed rice until it is completely covered .
Let the obtained mixture solidify outside the fridge for 4-5 hours, so it compacts while remaining soft . Then turn it out and place it on a cutting board to make bars of 1.2x3.1 inches (14-15). You can enjoy your puffed rice and chocolate bars as a snack or a treat during the day!
Puffed rice and chocolate bars can be stored in the refrigerator in a sealed container or covered with plastic wrap for 5-6 days. Freezing is not recommended.
These bars bring out the child in everyone! You can prepare them in all shapes by lining molds with the chocolate base (as described in the recipe) and then filling them with the puffed rice and chocolate mixture.

