name:
Apple Roses Puff Pastry
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1lb(460 g)
Fuji Apples: 2
Apricot jam: ½cup(100 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste- for sprinkling
Brown sugar: to taste
Butter: to taste- soft

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Flowers are a much-appreciated gift, especially roses, which are a symbol of love and sweetness to celebrate all mothers! If you want to surprise with a unique handmade gift for that occasion, you can create a bouquet of puff pastry and apple roses for Mother's Day! The Rose-shaped Brioche Bread are a swirl of sweetness that are very quick to make, simply by cutting strips of puff pastry , brushing them with apricot jam, and lining them with thin apple slices. Follow the recipe step-by-step to discover how to achieve the final effect: many small roses of puff pastry and apples, to be baked in the oven and sprinkled with powdered sugar, to make them sweet and fragrant.
Also, try another easy-to-prepare treat with apples and puff pastry like our original apple puff pastry donuts .

To prepare the puff pastry and apple roses, start by placing a pot full of water on the stove, then proceed to clean the apples: cut them into wedges , remove the core with a knife or with the appropriate tool. Then cut the apples into very thin slices .
When the water reaches boiling, add the apples and boil them for 1 minute, until they soften without breaking apart. Then turn off the heat, drain them and let them cool. At this point, you can strain the apricot jam to make it creamier (this step is optional) .
Now, take care of buttering a muffin tray using a brush and softened butter , then line each section with brown sugar . Roll out the puff pastry to create two rectangles .
Using a plain pastry cutter, cut 6 strips of pastry from each sheet, each about 2 inches wide . Brush each strip with apricot jam , pat the apple slices dry with a paper towel, and place them along each strip, slightly overlapping: the part with the skin should protrude from one side of the puff pastry strip .
Now fold the remaining puff pastry strip over the apples and roll it up from one of the narrower ends ; secure the last part well, and you will have formed a rose .
Place each rose inside one of the holes in the tray , and when you have finished, sprinkle with powdered sugar . Bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 45 minutes. Once cooked, take the puff pastry and apple roses out of the oven , and before they cool down, remove them from the tray; otherwise, as they cool, the sugar will solidify and it may be difficult to remove them.
Store the puff pastry and apple roses under a glass dome or covered with plastic wrap for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
These refined roses can also be made with other fruits, such as slices of pears or peaches, pairing them with your favorite jam!

