name:
Mini monster pancakes
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Whole milk: 1.7cups(400 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.24cup(30 g)
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Eggs: 4
Fine salt: 1pinch
Berry jam: 1cup(250 g)
Sprinkles: 72- shaped like little eyes

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 36 pieces

instructions:
Halloween is one of the most fun holidays of the year for both kids and adults: what could be better than making desserts at home to spend a creative and fun afternoon with the little ones? Here’s a fantastic idea to make a delicious Halloween recipe: delicious mini monster pancakes! They will be very easy to make with few ingredients and a lot of imagination, an original variation of the classic pancakes transformed for the occasion into surprising Halloween desserts. They will add a mysterious and fun touch to your table set for the occasion. Follow this recipe step by step and get ready to amaze all your guests with these and many other homemade goodies for the Halloween menu, monstrously good:

To prepare the mini monster pancakes, separate the egg whites from the yolks and pour the latter into a bowl, add the butter melted in the microwave at room temperature , the milk, and mix with a whisk. Add a pinch of salt .
Now incorporate the flour and the baking powder sifted through a sieve. Separately, add the powdered sugar to the egg whites
Whip them to stiff peaks with perfectly clean electric beaters , add them to the mixture in 3 additions , mixing with the whisk from top to bottom to obtain a homogeneous and frothy mixture .
Grease a non-stick pan with some butter , pour small ladles of batter to create pancakes about 2 inches, then cook them on one side .
When bubbles start to appear on the surface, flip the mini pancakes and continue cooking. Place the ready pancakes on a tray lined with parchment paper . Now fill each pancake with a generous teaspoon of jam .
Place a second pancake on top of each one , pressing only on one side so that one part lifts slightly . Apply the candy eyes on the more open part . The mini monster pancakes are ready to celebrate Halloween !
We recommend consuming the mini pancakes freshly made, but if you prefer, you can store them in the fridge for one day.
For the eyes, we used candy eyes that are easily available online. Alternatively, you can make the eyes with white and black fondant.

