name:
Veal Stew with Mushrooms
ingredients:
Veal: 1.8lbs(800 g)- diced
Extra virgin olive oil: 5spoonfuls
Meat broth: to taste
Type 00 flour: 1spoonful- smooth
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
Yellow onions: 1- medium
Red wine: - 1/2 cup
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Champignon mushrooms: 14.1oz(400 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Parsley: 2spoonfuls- chopped

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Veal stew with mushrooms is a very tasty and easy-to-prepare meat main dish. To prepare it, we used excellent champignon mushrooms, available all year round, but you can replace them with seasonal mushrooms, choosing from those you like best, such as porcini, chanterelles, button mushrooms, etc... Veal stew with mushrooms is an excellent main dish already complete with a side: a complete and satisfying dish, to be enjoyed even as a single course.
Try these variants too:

To prepare the veal stew with mushrooms, wash, clean, and finely chop an onion, a carrot, and a celery stalk . In a rather large non-stick pan, place 5 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil and sauté the carrot , celery, and onion .
Add the meat cubes and brown them well together with the sauté, then add a level tablespoon of flour, sifting it directly into the pan and stirring continuously . Let it cook for a few minutes and then add the red wine and continue cooking for about 40 minutes,
covering the pan with a lid and leaving a small vent . During cooking, add meat or vegetable broth when needed. In the meantime, clean, peel, and slice the champignon mushrooms . Place two tablespoons of oil and one (or two, depending on taste) crushed garlic clove in a pan .
Then add the mushrooms and let them cook over high heat for a few minutes, adding the finely chopped parsley . Five minutes before the end of the meat's cooking, add the mushrooms directly to the stew pan, stir gently, and finish cooking, adjusting the salt and pepper . Serve the veal stew with mushrooms accompanied by fresh bread, mashed potatoes, or, in winter, steaming polenta.
Store the veal stew with mushrooms in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 2-3 days.
To prepare the veal stew with sautéed mushrooms, you can use a mix of sautéed mushrooms or sautéed porcini mushrooms . Instead of veal, you can also use good pork pulp.

