name:
Persimmon, Arugula, and Fennel Salad
ingredients:
Arugula: 10.6oz(300 g)
Persimmon: 1- apple
Fennel: 1
Lemon juice: 4.7tbsp(70 ml)
Orange juice: ½cup(125 ml)
Orange peel: ½
Honey: 1spoonful
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sesame seeds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
The persimmon, arugula, and fennel salad is a tasty and colorful autumn and winter salad, fragrant and delicious, healthy and tasty. Perfect to prepare and serve for an original dinner, to accompany many main courses or to eat as a single dish. The persimmon, arugula, and fennel salad is simple and quick... the combination of fruit and vegetables will make this dish really special. The persimmon, with its sweet flavor and juicy pulp, goes perfectly with the crunchiness of the fennel and the more pronounced flavor of the arugula. All seasoned with a citrus vinaigrette made with orange and lemon, which will make the salad fragrant and even more delicious.
To prepare the persimmon, arugula, and fennel salad, start by cutting the peel from half an orange, being careful not to take the white part . Cut the peel into thin strips and set them aside until ready to use. Squeeze half an orange and half a lemon ,
collect the juice in a bowl . Add a tablespoon of honey , a pinch of salt , and a grind of black pepper.
Beat everything with a fork to combine the ingredients . Take a washed and dried fuyu persimmon , and cut it into thin slices .
Take a washed fennel and cut it into slices . In a salad bowl, place the washed arugula ,
add the fennel , the orange peel cut into strips , and the persimmon slices .
Pour the orange and lemon vinaigrette over the top , mix everything together, and add a tablespoon of sesame seeds . Serve the persimmon, arugula, and fennel salad immediately .
The salad can be stored in the refrigerator without the vinaigrette for two days in an airtight container. Once dressed, it should be consumed immediately.
Pomegranate seeds or apple slices can be added to enrich the salad. If desired, you can also season with extra virgin olive oil added directly to the orange and lemon juice dressing.

