name:
Baked Potato Balls
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- (to grate)
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(60 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Parsley: 1bunch
Oregano: 4leaves
Thyme: to taste- dry
Garlic powder: ½tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(120 g)
Eggs: 2
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Potatoes are so versatile that you could dedicate an entire recipe book just to dishes featuring them! Timeless companions to meat or fish main courses, they have always been inspiring muses for countless recipes like croquettes , gateau , savory tarts , or meatballs like the ones we propose in this recipe. Our baked potato balls are tasty and soft bites, perfect for those who prefer a lighter and healthier cooking method compared to frying . Serve them with a fresh and aromatic sauce made from Greek yogurt and mint, or with a fake egg-free mayonnaise !
Discover other baked meatball recipes, such as baked pumpkin balls , which are vegetarian!
To make the baked potato balls, first boil the potatoes for 30-40 minutes or until they are soft, checking with a fork: when it easily pierces the center of the potatoes, they are done. Chop the parsley after washing and drying it . While still hot, pass the potatoes with their skin through a potato ricer (or peel them and mash with a fork) and collect the puree in a bowl .
Add the salt , pepper , thyme, garlic powder, grated Grana Padano DOP, a few oregano leaves, and chopped parsley .
Mix everything well, then also incorporate the egg and breadcrumbs . Stir to get a homogeneous mixture .
Now make the balls, slightly flattening them with your hands , and place them on a tray. Prepare the coating: in a bowl, beat the eggs, and in another plate, pour the breadcrumbs. Then take the balls, dip them in the egg , and then in the breadcrumbs .
Transfer all the balls to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , drizzle with 2 tablespoons of oil , and bake in a preheated oven at 350°F for 15 minutes or until golden. After the cooking time, remove the baked potato balls from the oven and serve hot!
It is recommended to consume the baked potato balls once ready; they can be frozen raw and then cooked directly from frozen. After cooking, they can be stored in the fridge for 1 day.
Want to enrich your potato balls with flavor? Add diced ham and cheese; they will be even more delicious!

