name:
Potato Gateau with Pumpkin and Taleggio
ingredients:
Yellow potatoes: 2.2lbs(1.1 kg)
Delica pumpkin: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (to be cleaned)
Taleggio cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2oz(60 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
The potato gateau is one of the most iconic recipes of Neapolitan cuisine. Today we are here to offer you a delicious vegetarian variant: the potato gateau with pumpkin and taleggio. We are sure that you will also love this recipe! The base of the gateau is similar to the classic one, made with mashed potatoes, but without eggs, and instead of the classic cubes of cold cuts, you will find sweet cubes of pumpkin. For the cheese, we chose one with a strong flavor, taleggio, which also adds a stretchy and appetizing touch! Baking in the oven allows for a golden crust on the outside, while the inside of the potato gateau with pumpkin and taleggio will remain soft and creamy. Make this Potato Pie and serve it as a main dish or as a rich side dish! If you're looking for other potato recipes, here are some not to be missed:

To prepare the potato gateau with pumpkin and taleggio, start with the potatoes: rinse them and place them in a large pot, covering with plenty of cold water . Bring to a boil and cook for about 30-40 minutes, depending on the size of the potatoes. While the potatoes are cooking, take care of the pumpkin: remove the seeds and internal strings with a spoon , then remove the outer skin .
Cut the pumpkin first into slices and then into small cubes , you will get about 14 oz. In a pan, pour a swirl of olive oil, a clove of garlic, and sprigs of thyme , and let it flavor for 1-2 minutes.
Now add the pumpkin cubes and season with salt and pepper. Cover with a lid and cook for about 10 minutes over medium heat; if it dries out too much, add a little water. When the cubes are soft enough to be pierced with a fork, turn off the heat .
Transfer the pumpkin to a bowl and set aside . Meanwhile, cut the taleggio into slices . When the potatoes are cooked, drain them. Peel 2 potatoes and cut them into slices .
Mash the remaining potatoes while still hot in a bowl . Season with salt , pepper, and oil .
Add a pinch of nutmeg and the grated Grana Padano . Mix well until you get a homogeneous mixture. At this point, butter a flared mold 8 inches at the base and 9.5 inches on the surface. Then coat it with breadcrumbs, removing the excess .
Transfer the potato puree inside and press with the back of a spoon to cover both the base and the sides of the mold. Pour the pumpkin cubes into the center and place the taleggio slices on top .
Cover with the boiled potato slices and oil the surface . Season with salt and pepper.
Finally, sprinkle with grated Grana Padano and a drizzle of oil. Bake in a preheated oven for 30 minutes at 392°F, then for 3-4 minutes at 464°F with the grill function. Take your potato gateau with pumpkin and taleggio out of the oven and let it cool slightly before serving !
You can keep the cooked potato gateau with pumpkin and taleggio for up to 1-2 days, then reheat it as needed. It is not recommended to prepare it too many hours in advance before cooking, as the mixture may darken.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you do not like the taste of taleggio, you can replace it with fontina, scamorza, or caciocavallo.
Instead of pumpkin, you can use sautéed seasonal vegetables.

