name:
Hazelnut Cake
ingredients:
Whole peeled hazelnuts: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)- (half a sachet)
Eggs: 2- at room temperature
Powdered sugar: to taste- to taste for the surface

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note (for baking, it is necessary to adjust according to the power of your oven)

instructions:
The buttery flavor of hazelnuts, which vaguely resembles that of cocoa, has the ability to captivate our senses. These delights are the undisputed protagonists of many recipes, such as Hazelnut Muffins or Hazelnut Sorbet and the delicious hazelnut cake, of Piedmontese origin, which we propose to you today! Because of its delicate yet tasty flavor and its hazelnut aroma that immediately won us over, slice after slice, we couldn't save even a piece for breakfast! This dessert is made in many variations, such as ours, which is low and crispy. Otherwise, there is a high and fluffy one, some with wheat flour, and finally, those without flour and those with delicious chocolate chips . But even the way to enjoy it can change: simple or sprinkled with powdered sugar, not to mention the most gluttonous who like to accompany a nice slice with a good bicerin or with some zabaione. Are you ready to bake this hazelnut cake? We are, here's the recipe!
To prepare the hazelnut cake, start by pouring the hazelnuts into a mixer . You should crumble them not too finely, so use the pulse function, that is, repeated pulses, to get a coarse mixture and then set it aside . Meanwhile, move on to the rest of the ingredients. Place the butter cut into pieces and softened at room temperature in a stand mixer fitted with beaters (if you don't have one, you can easily use an electric mixer) along with the sugar .
Turn on the beaters for about ten minutes until you get a light and fluffy mixture, then start adding, a little at a time, the lightly beaten eggs . Remember not to add them all at once, otherwise, the mixture will have trouble rising, so add the next amount only when the previous one has been completely absorbed . In the meantime, sift the flour and baking powder
and, with the beaters still running, add one tablespoon at a time to the mixture : as before, add the next one when the previous one has been absorbed. Then it's time to add the hazelnuts all at once and continue mixing until they are absorbed .
Turn off the beaters and your batter is ready . Butter and flour a 9-inch cake pan, then pour the mixture inside and level it well to have an even base. You can slightly tap the cake pan on the work surface to settle the mixture. The cake is ready to bake in a preheated oven, on the lowest rack (not touching the base), in static mode at 350°F for about 30 minutes , then you can continue at 340°F for another 10 minutes. The times can be adjusted based on your oven's power.
Once cooked, let the cake cool completely before removing it from the mold , then place it on a serving plate and, if you prefer, sprinkle with powdered sugar . Your hazelnut cake is ready to be served !
The hazelnut cake keeps in the refrigerator for 2-3 days at most or under a glass dome stored in a cool place. If you prefer, you can freeze it, in which case it is advisable to cut it into slices first.
If you want to make the hazelnut cake even more rustic, you can add some halved hazelnuts into the batter or chocolate chips!
For a coffee-flavored version, take inspiration from our coffee cake recipe!

