name:
Mushroom Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ¼cup(240 g)
Honey mushrooms: 7oz(200 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 7oz(200 g)
Onions: ½
Butter: 6tbsp(80 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: to taste- to chop
White wine: 1.8oz(50 g)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
White pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Mushroom risotto is a timeless first course, the most beloved among autumn recipes. Some prefer the porcini mushroom risotto , but this type of mushroom is often hard to find and its strong taste is not always appreciated by everyone. Others love the version with sausage , rich and appetizing. We offer you an alternative, milder version, accessible to all, created by Chef Fabio Abbattista, which uses Stuffed Champignon Mushrooms with Sausage and honey mushrooms: two types that are certainly easier to find not only in autumn but also throughout the rest of the year! The secret of this dish? Definitely the broth made with the mushroom stems... as you know, here at Giallo Zafferano we don't like waste; it's true that stems are less prized but they also contain all their flavor, so why throw them away? Put on your apron, let's prepare this creamy and delicious mushroom risotto together, cooked to perfection!
To prepare mushroom risotto all year round, find out how to make it with dried mushrooms ! Also, discover a timeless classic like Milanese risotto !
Discover more delicious Risotto recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the mushroom risotto, start by cleaning the Champignons. Remove the bottom part of the stem , then peel them using a small knife . Start at the base of the cap and gently pull the skin towards the center. Then remove the stems and set aside the scraps to make the broth.
Now, deal with the honey mushrooms. Remove the bottom part of the stem, which will be too earthy, and take only the middle part which will be used to make the broth along with the Champignon stems. For the risotto, use only the top part, which should be cut into cubes with a small knife . At this point, make the mushroom broth. Place the scraps in a pot ,
add the water and let them simmer for about 30 minutes. In the meantime, also cut the Champignon caps into cubes and finely chop half an onion .
Take a large pot that will be used for cooking the risotto, add half of the butter (2.8 tbsp) and let it melt gently. Then add the onion and let it turn golden before adding the mushrooms . Cook on medium-high heat for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally and ensuring the mushrooms do not release liquids. At this point, add the rice and stir often to toast it.
After a few minutes, deglaze with the white wine and only when the alcohol has completely evaporated, add a couple of ladles of broth , filtering it with a strainer directly into the pot .
Season with salt and continue cooking for about 13 minutes, occasionally adding the hot filtered broth, until it is cooked. Then turn off the heat and stir in the risotto: first add the remaining 2.8 tbsp of butter and stir until it is completely melted; then add the Parmesan and stir again .
Now finely chop the parsley ; season the rice with ground white pepper , parsley, and a drizzle of oil .
Stir to combine the flavors and adjust the risotto's consistency by adding more broth if necessary , stir again and serve your mushroom risotto hot .
We recommend consuming the risotto immediately, alternatively, it can be stored for one day in the refrigerator. Freezing is not recommended.
To properly emulsify the butter and Parmesan during the stirring process, stir with a wooden spoon while simultaneously moving the pan back and forth with a decisive gesture.
For correct selection, treatment, and storage of mushrooms, refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .

