name:
Country Cake
ingredients:
Stale bread: 10.6oz(300 g)
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Eggs: 2- medium
Amaretti cookies: 4.2oz(120 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 0.4cup(50 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Raisins: ½cup(70 g)
Pine nuts: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Oranges: 1- the zest and the juice

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the soaking time of the bread in milk

instructions:
The country cake is a dessert originating from Lombardy, specifically from the Brianza area, which lies between the northern province of Milan and the Lake Lecco-Como. It is a dessert of peasant origin, with infinite variations, but mainly made with stale bread soaked in milk. It is also known as bread cake or, in the local dialect, 'michelacc' which means bread and milk. Depending on personal tastes and the ingredients available at the moment, each family would add different ingredients to the soaked bread, such as raisins or pine nuts. We present our version with the addition of cocoa and amaretti: perfect to enjoy for a rustic-tasting snack, country cake is an ideal way to use up leftover bread... and it's even better the day after!
Looking for other recipes with stale bread? Try the Sweet Fried Bread or the bread and vegetable cake , a tasty way to empty the fridge!
To prepare the country cake, start by heating the milk (it should not reach a boil) . In the meantime, take the stale bread (alternatively, you can toast a whole loaf in the oven until it dries out) and cut it into slices, then dice it into cubes . Place the bread in a bowl.
Grate the zest of an untreated orange (keep the orange aside as it will be used later), then pour the hot milk over the bread . Stir with a spoon and cover with plastic wrap ; let the bread soak for half an hour. Stir occasionally, so that all the bread absorbs the milk and softens well.
In the meantime, squeeze the orange and soak the raisins in its juice . Then in a mixer, add the amaretti and unsweetened cocoa powder ,
blend until everything is reduced to a powder . At this point, take the now soft bread, stir it with a spoon or fork to further break it down and add the cocoa powder .
Mix it into the bread ; then beat the eggs in a separate small bowl and add them to the mixture. Stir with a spatula
and when they are absorbed, add the sugar . Then add the pine nuts and drain the raisins well from the orange juice ,
before adding them to the mixture . Stir well with a spatula to combine all the ingredients . Butter and line a 9-inch diameter baking pan with parchment paper
and pour the mixture inside . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 60 minutes (or at 320°F for 50 minutes if using a convection oven). Once cooked , remove the country cake from the oven and let it cool slightly, then remove from the pan and let cool on a wire rack before serving .
You can store the country cake under a glass dome for up to 2-3 days. It tastes even better the next day!
Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of amaretti, you can use simple dry biscuits or cocoa biscuits, reducing the amount of cocoa powder in the ingredient list accordingly.

