name:
Porcini Mushroom Velouté
ingredients:
Porcini mushrooms: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Leeks: 2.8oz(80 g)
Vegetable broth: 3cups(700 g)
Potatoes: 10.6oz(300 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Cereal grain buns: 2
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Oregano: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Soups and broths are perfect when it starts getting cold outside, and you crave comforting food that warms the stomach... and the heart! And what's better with fall around the corner than delighting in the goodness of mushrooms? Today we bring to the table a recipe that releases the full flavor of porcini mushrooms: the porcini mushroom velouté! Dense, creamy, and aromatic thanks to the high-quality mushrooms, this Mushroom soup is a fabulous first course that comes from the combination of just a few simple ingredients: porcini mushrooms, potatoes, and leeks. To make the preparation more interesting, we decided to add crunchy croutons flavored with oregano and a drizzle of oil... a delicate delicacy!
Pair the porcini mushroom velouté with a baked side dish that's equally special and simple to make: Mushrooms and Potatoes !
To prepare the porcini mushroom velouté, start by preparing the vegetable broth . In the meantime, focus on the cleaning of the porcini mushrooms : using a small knife, scrape off the soil attached to the mushroom . If there is a lot of soil, you might quickly rinse the mushrooms under a stream of cold water (this step is usually avoided to prevent them from absorbing water) . If the mushrooms have little soil attached, remove it gently with a brush. Then, with a very gentle twisting motion, separate the stem from the cap, slicing both into thin slices lengthwise . Once ready, set them aside.
Proceed by washing and drying the vegetables. Take the potatoes, peel them, then dice them and set them aside. Clean the leek by removing the tuft and the green part , then cut it into very thin slices .
Sauté the leek in a non-stick pan with a drizzle of oil . When it softens, add the potatoes and the porcini mushrooms . If you prefer, you can set aside some slices for the final decoration (if you choose to do so, sauté them in a pan with a drizzle of oil, searing them for 1 minute on each side).
Heat over moderate heat for about 1 minute, stirring the ingredients to prevent them from sticking to the bottom . Then season with salt and pepper. Finally, add the vegetable broth : let the ingredients cook like this for about 20 minutes over moderate heat.
When the broth has been absorbed, use an immersion blender to blend the ingredients : you should obtain a homogeneous mixture that you can collect in a bowl, straining it through a sieve to make it creamier .
Your porcini mushroom velouté will be ready, keep it warm . Now focus on the bread: slice it and then cut it into cubes of about 1/4 inch . Arrange them evenly on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and drizzle with a little oil . Then season with salt.
Flavor with some oregano leaves , and to evenly season, you can slightly lift the edges of the parchment paper to mix the croutons inside . To make the croutons crispy, cook them in a preheated static oven in grill mode at 464°F for about 3 minutes. Once cooked, remove them and add them to your plated porcini mushroom velouté (if you prefer, also with some sautéed porcini slices). You can decorate with a drizzle of oil and enjoy it while still hot !
The porcini mushroom velouté can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for up to 2 days.
You can also freeze it only if you have used fresh ingredients and not defrosted ones.
Try deglazing the mushrooms with white wine for more intense aromatic notes! And to add freshness to the dish, add some parsley to the velouté once plated!

