name:
Pumpkin Muffins
ingredients:
Pumpkin: 1cup(225 g)- (pulp)
Butter: 0.67cup(150 g)
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Honey: 4 ½tbsp(90 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Salt: 1pinch
Baking soda: 1tsp
Nutmeg: to taste- to grate
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the baking time for the pumpkin (about 1 hour)

instructions:
Pumpkin muffins are fluffy treats inspired by the celebration of Halloween, as the pumpkin is its most well-known symbol. Pumpkin muffins can be prepared using the pulp of the same pumpkin that, during this time, is hollowed out and carved into a lantern. The preparation of pumpkin muffins is really simple and quick: enrich your buffet by choosing from our Halloween muffin and cupcake recipes... you will surely make your children happy, and your guests will be thrilled!
To prepare the pumpkin muffins, clean and wash the pumpkin, remove the peel and seeds, then cut it into slices about 1 inch thick . Wrap the pumpkin with two sheets of aluminum foil, forming a "packet," and bake it in the oven for 1 hour at 400°F . When the pumpkin has softened, remove it from the oven, open the packet, and let it cool .
Meanwhile, beat the butter until creamy , using the paddle attachment of a stand mixer or the beaters of a hand mixer. Continue beating and add the brown sugar , honey (or molasses) ,
the mashed pumpkin , and finally the egg . When all the ingredients are combined, reaching a creamy consistency, turn off the mixer and set everything aside. In a bowl, sift the flour with the baking soda ,
then add the salt and spices and mix everything well with a spoon . At this point, add the dry ingredients to the mixture in the stand mixer and continue to mix for a few minutes . The dough is ready; now you just need to put it into the muffin molds: place a paper liner inside each muffin mold ,
then fill a pastry bag with a plain nozzle with the pumpkin mixture . Now distribute the mixture evenly into the molds and bake everything in a preheated oven at 400°F for 15-20 minutes .
Store the pumpkin muffins for 3-4 days under a glass dome or in an airtight container, placed in a cool and dry place.
The range of possible additions is quite varied: from amaretto liqueur (a small glass, for flavoring) to soft goat cheese, to be mixed with the pumpkin, for added flavor. It's your choice!
Discover all our pumpkin recipes for Halloween to create a different menu every time!

