name:
How to Clean Porcini Mushrooms
ingredients:
Porcini mushrooms: 1.1lbs(500 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Commonly known as porcini, their scientific name is boletus edulis : a prized variety of edible mushrooms characterized by firm, white flesh that does not change color after being cut. The stem is thick and sturdy, while the cap is circular with a spongy underside. The ideal season for harvesting is late summer to early autumn, but this can vary due to many factors such as climate and altitude. Foraging for mushrooms in the forest can be very rewarding, but you need to be able to identify them or rely on expert hands! Whether you've found them in the mountains or bought them at the market, porcini are a gourmet ingredient perfect for making delicious recipes. In this cooking school, we show you how to clean them without risking damage, and then you just need to choose which dish to prepare... here are some examples:

To clean porcini mushrooms, first remove the earthy part at the base of the stem using a smooth, sharp knife or a paring knife . Gently scrub the rest of the stem with a brush to remove any remaining dirt . At this point, take a brush and clean the underside of the cap .
Proceed in the same way to clean the top of the cap . If some parts are still dirty, you can remove the dirt by gently rubbing with a slightly damp cloth or paper towel . For small mushrooms, it's best to separate the stem from the cap with a gentle twisting motion to easily reach even the hidden parts with the brush.
Now that the porcini mushrooms are clean, you can cut them depending on how you will use them. If the mushrooms are large, it's advisable to separate the cap from the stem: place the cap on the cutting board with the rounded side up and slice it into thin or thick slices. The stem can be sliced either crosswise or lengthwise . If the mushrooms are small, you can leave them whole and slice them lengthwise . Your porcini mushrooms are ready to be cooked!
Raw porcini mushrooms can be stored in the refrigerator for about 2 days, covered with a cloth.
You can freeze them raw or dry them with a dehydrator after slicing them.
It is always recommended not to wash mushrooms under water because they are spongy and would absorb it, affecting their flavor. However, if the dirt is very stubborn, you can rinse them briefly under a stream of running water and dry them afterward.

