name:
Picchiapò
ingredients:
Hanger steak: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Tomato purée: 2.1cups(500 g)
White onions: 4
Potatoes: 1
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
Datterino tomatoes: 2
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 2 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
A rich and delicious recovery recipe: picchiapò or boiled beef Picchiapò style. Romans know what we are talking about: this dish is one of the most delicious in Roman cuisine and is made starting from the meat that is cooked for the broth , often used for other typical preparations such as stracciatella alla romana . The piece of meat from the boiled beef, in fact, unlike the classic beef stew , remains tough after cooking because it is cooked starting from cold water. To avoid discarding it and to present it at the table in a new appetizing way, a stew of onions and tomatoes comes to the rescue, which will give it softness and flavor. There is also a white version, but today we will show you how to prepare traditional picchiapò with the recipe by Claudio and Fabrizio Gargioli of Armando al Pantheon , a historic restaurant located in the heart of Rome, where you can taste all the specialties of Roman cuisine, including spaghetti cacio e pepe , spaghetti alla carbonara , and the inevitable amatriciana !
To prepare picchiapò, place the cleaned vegetables in a pot filled with cold water: the carrot, celery stalk, tomatoes, and potato . Peel the onion and add half of it , then also add the beef .
Season with coarse salt , turn on the heat and let it boil for 2 hours . In the meantime, clean and chop 3 white onions .
In a pan, heat the olive oil, then add the chopped onions , salt , add a ladle of the cooking beef broth , and let the onions soften over low heat.
In the meantime, wash and chop the fresh parsley . After the boiling time , drain the boiled beef .
Cut the meat to obtain thin but not too thin slices . Once the onion is well stewed, place the slices of boiled beef on top .
Add a ladle of beef broth and the tomato puree , mix and cook for about 10 minutes , or until the sauce thickens.
The boiled beef Picchiapò style is ready , serve it with plenty of freshly chopped parsley and a drizzle of raw olive oil .
Picchiapò can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Once cooked, it can also be frozen.
There is also a version of picchiapò without tomato sauce that involves adding red or white wine to flavor the meat.

