name:
Potato and Speck Fritters
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Speck: 4.2oz(120 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (approximately 2 medium)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to be grated
Type 00 flour: (80 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: ½tsp(2 g)
Thyme: 4sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: 1 ¾cup(400 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Did someone say Luna-Park Fritters ? We go crazy for those apple ones , but it's equally impossible to resist the savory version with zucchini or, as we show you today, with potatoes! The potato and speck fritters are tasty fried bites, the perfect appetizer finger food for your home happy hours. Crunchy and golden on the outside and soft on the inside, these fritters are excellent enjoyed on their own, but even more when dipped in some homemade aromatic sauce, like traditional mayonnaise or a quick cream made with Greek yogurt.
Discover other homemade fritter recipes here:
To prepare the potato and speck fritters, remove the rind from the speck and dice it . Peel the potatoes and grate them using a coarse grater .

In a bowl, mix the potatoes, the thyme leaves , the eggs , and stir. Then add the Parmigiano Reggiano DOP .
Also incorporate the flour and the instant yeast . Finally, add the speck , and season with salt and pepper.
Mix everything to combine . Now pour the oil into a pan and heat it to a temperature of 320°F-340°F. Use 2 tablespoons to form the fritters . Fry for a couple of minutes, pressing them slightly, then turn them over and let the other side brown .
As they are ready, drain them on a tray lined with paper towels . Enjoy the potato and speck fritters as soon as they are ready !
We recommend consuming the potato and speck fritters immediately.
You can use prosciutto or pancetta instead of speck.
Instead of thyme, you can use chopped rosemary.
The instant yeast for savory breads can be omitted.
To accompany the fritters, you can prepare a quick homemade sauce by emulsifying Greek yogurt, salt, pepper, oil, and a pinch of paprika!

