name:
Gratinated Cardoons
ingredients:
Thistles: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to grate)
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Butter: to taste-
Lemons: 1-
Whole milk: 1.1cups(250 g)-
Butter: 2tbsp(25 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Nutmeg: 1pinch-
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste-

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Gratinated cardoons in the oven with béchamel sauce are a delicious and wholesome side dish with an unexpected balance of flavors and textures. The cardoons, with their characteristic slightly bitter taste, become the perfect base for the béchamel , which enhances the dish with its characteristic creaminess and delicate flavor. In this combination, the flavors blend harmoniously without ever overpowering each other. Gratinated cardoons in the oven are much more than an appetizing side dish; they represent a typical homemade dish that celebrates timeless rustic recipes.
Discover other tasty cardoon recipes to prepare at home:

To prepare the gratinated cardoons, start by cleaning the cardoons : with a small knife, remove the outer filaments . Trim the base of the stalk , then wash them under running water and immerse them in water and lemon to prevent them from turning dark.

Boil the cardoons in boiling water for 25 minutes . Meanwhile, prepare the béchamel: melt the butter in a saucepan , then add the flour .

Cook for 2 minutes, stirring with a whisk . Once you have a golden and lump-free mixture, slowly pour in the hot milk and let the sauce thicken, always stirring with the whisk .
Season with salt , pepper , and nutmeg. Set aside and drain the cardoons, which should be ready by now .
Butter a 8x12 inch baking dish and sprinkle the bottom with breadcrumbs . Place a layer of cardoons .
Cover with half of the lukewarm béchamel and sprinkle the surface with half of the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP . Now proceed with a second layer of boiled cardoons .
Finish with the remaining béchamel , the grated cheese, and some butter flakes . Bake in the oven for 35 minutes at 392°F in static mode, then continue for another 5 minutes at 482°F in grill mode. Remove the gratinated cardoons from the oven and let them cool slightly before serving !
Gratinated cardoons can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
They can be frozen after cooking.
Choose cardoons with intact, compact, and white leaves, which have a less bitter taste.

