name:
Cassoeula
ingredients:
Verza (savoy cabbage): 2.2lbs(1.2 kg)
Pork ribs: 1.7lbs(750 g)
Arista: 7.1oz(200 g)
Verzini: 7
Pork rind: 5.3oz(150 g)
Pork: 1- trotter
Pork: 1- ear
Pork: 1- tail
Pork: ½- snout
Carrots: 2
Onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Cluster tomatoes: 5- ripe
Garlic: to taste- (to chop)
Dry white wine: 0.4cup(100 g)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Parsley: to taste- (to chop)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: 3tbsp(50 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Parsley: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Garlic: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 4 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The cassoeula is a hearty one-pot meal based on cabbage and pork, typical of the Brianza cuisine. Its origins date back to peasant tradition when the pig was slaughtered and nothing went to waste. Claudio Sadler, a renowned star chef of Milanese origin, prepared this dish for us using the classic ingredients: pig's foot, snout, ear, tail, and skin, to which he added ribs and loin, a leaner cut of meat that deviates from the original recipe but integrates perfectly with everything else. Moreover, the verzini, fresh pork sausages typical of Lombardy, which are so named because they are cooked together with cabbage in the original cassoeula, cannot be missed. The queen, however, remains the cabbage, which plays a fundamental role in blending all the elements of the dish, whose ideal consistency is aptly described in this old Lombard saying: " La casoeûla l’ha da vess ben tacchenta e minga sbrodolada e sbrodolenta ", meaning "the cassoeûla must be sticky and not brothy and runny"… the best way to enjoy it, in fact, is with a nice portion of polenta !
Don't miss these typical Lombard recipes as well:

To make the cassoeula, first, have your trusted butcher help you choose, cut, and clean the pork parts you will use. Prepare all the ingredients, starting with the cabbage: remove the green leaves from the outer part of the head and the white leaves from the inner core , then cut them in half .
Blanch the green leaves in lightly salted boiling water for about ten minutes , then drain and set aside. Do the same with the white cabbage leaves, keeping them separate from the green ones. Also, blanch the pieces of meat in lightly salted boiling water: immerse the skin and drain it after 10 minutes.
Proceed in the same way with the ear , tail , foot, and snout . Also, blanch the ribs and verzini, always for 10 minutes. Drain and set aside.
Now move on to the tomatoes: briefly blanch them in boiling water , then peel them and cut them into cubes . Set everything aside.
Finally, clean and cut the carrots into strips , the onion, and the celery. Heat the oil in a cast-iron casserole, then add the onion and the carrots .
Add the celery and let it stew gently, helping with a little water . Flavor with bay leaves and a pinch of chopped garlic.
When the vegetables have softened, you can add the previously blanched pig's foot, tail, snout, and ear . Deglaze with white wine and let the alcohol evaporate, then add the green cabbage leaves .
Pour in the chopped tomato pulp (only the more liquid part with the seeds) , mix , and cover with the lid . Cook for an hour and a half over medium-high heat.
In the meantime, prepare the flavored salt that you will use to cook the loin and ribs: make a very fine mince of rosemary, marjoram, parsley, and garlic, add the salt and mix well . Season the loin cut into cubes with the flavored salt, massaging each piece well .
Transfer the loin to a baking sheet greased with oil , season with another drizzle of oil on top and flavor with a clove of garlic and a bay leaf .
Do the same with the previously blanched ribs: massage the meat with the flavored salt , then transfer them to a greased baking sheet with oil and season with another drizzle of oil , bay leaf, and garlic . Bake both trays in a preheated static oven for 15 minutes.
After an hour and a half, the ingredients in the casserole will have started to blend, so you can add the remaining ones: add the skin and a layer of white cabbage leaves , then pour in some of the chopped tomatoes .
Add the oven-cooked loin and ribs , without their cooking juices, then pour in the remaining chopped tomatoes .
Finally, add the verzini and cover with the last layer of white cabbage leaves . Season with a pinch of flavored salt and add a little water .
Flavor with some marjoram sprigs , then let it cook for at least another hour with the lid on, without stirring but occasionally checking that it doesn't dry out too much . At the end of cooking, garnish with parsley and marjoram leaves. Your cassoeula is ready to be served with a nice plate of polenta !
The cassoeula can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
Alternatively, you can freeze it.
The best cabbage for cassoeula is the winter one, which has undergone at least one frost.

