name:
Pumpkin Casserole
ingredients:
Pumpkin: 2.2lbs(1.3 kg)- to clean
Bacon: 5.3oz(150 g)- slices
Emmentaler cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)- sliced
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Parsley: to taste- sea urchin
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Anyone who loves pumpkin would eat it in any way: stuffed , baked , Baked Pumpkin … so why not combine all these preparations to create an even richer and tastier recipe? The pumpkin casserole is a rustic dish enriched with bacon, cheese, and a mixture of milk and cream that will give you a creamy and stringy texture at the end of cooking, crowned by the inevitable golden crust. A substantial side dish, ideal to serve even as a main or single dish, that will surely make it to the top ten for fans of this fabulous vegetable!
To prepare the pumpkin casserole, first clean the pumpkin: remove the skin, seeds, and inner fibers and cut it into slices about 0.4 inches thick : you should get about 2 lbs of cleaned pumpkin. Cut the bacon slices in half .
Butter a 14x9.5 inch baking dish and place the pumpkin slices inside, slightly overlapping, alternating them with the bacon slices (4-5). Season with salt and pepper .
Now pour the milk and cream into a small saucepan , add a pinch of salt and bring to a boil over low heat, stirring with a whisk .
Pour the mixture into the baking dish, evenly drizzling it over the pumpkin slices . At this point, cut the Emmental cheese into strips and distribute it on the surface .
Once ready , bake the casserole in a preheated static oven at 350°F on the middle rack for about 50 minutes until it is well browned on top. Remove from the oven, garnish with some curly parsley leaves and serve your pumpkin casserole hot !
The pumpkin casserole can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. It can be frozen before or after cooking.
As an alternative to Emmental, you can use Fontina or another similar cheese. If desired, you can replace the milk and cream mixture with about 2 cups of fairly fluid béchamel sauce.

