name:
Parmesan Baskets with Crunchy Apple Salad
ingredients:
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1 ½cup(240 g)- grated
Fuji Apples: 2
Radicchio: 2.8oz(80 g)- long
Spinach: 1.8oz(50 g)- fresh young
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Balsamic vinegar: 3tbsp(50 g)
Brown sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Note + the cooling time of the glaze

instructions:
Parmesan baskets with crunchy apple salad are a tasty appetizer or a rich and fresh side dish to use as a wildcard on the most special occasions: fragrant and golden wafers that welcome inside them a winter salad made special by apples, the most loved fruit by both young and old. The final touch? A layer of rich balsamic vinegar glaze, which gives the dish depth and elegance. Easy, versatile, and impactful, the Parmesan baskets with crunchy apple salad with their sweet and sour mix of flavor and freshness will conquer everyone! To prepare them, you only need a few simple ingredients, but of excellent quality: good balsamic vinegar, crunchy and juicy apples, an essential pinch of creativity... et voilà, nature is served!
To prepare the Parmesan baskets with crunchy apple salad, start by making the glaze: place the balsamic vinegar and brown sugar in a small saucepan and reduce over medium-low heat for a few minutes . Transfer the reduction to a squeeze bottle and refrigerate it to set for at least half an hour: as it cools, it will thicken and take on the consistency of a glaze. Meanwhile, proceed with the preparation of the baskets. Brush a small pan with a diameter of 6-7 inches with a tiny bit of butter (if you have a good non-stick pan, you can skip this step, but it will help to make the baskets shinier).
Heat it slightly and pour in a quarter of the Parmesan required by the recipe, which is 2 ounces . Distribute the Parmesan evenly in the pan, helping yourself with a spatula . Let the cheese melt over not too high a flame until it starts to bubble and takes on a slightly golden color .
Remove the pan from the heat and let the cheese set for a minute. Using a spatula, gently detach the Parmesan wafer from the pan, which will still be rather soft , and quickly place it on the inverted bottom of a small bowl, which you have previously placed on a paper towel or a plate. Let the basket cool completely, in the meantime proceed in the same way with the other 3. Once all the baskets are done, wash the radicchio and julienne it .
Place it in a small bowl and season it with the oil and salt. Then wash the apples, cut them in half , and remove the core .
Then cut the apples into thin slices . It's time to assemble the dishes: place each basket on a small plate and arrange the apple slices in a half-moon shape on 2/3 of the basket . Then add baby spinach in the center
and radicchio . Place another 3 apple slices on top of the salad , in the section of circumference that is still free. Finally, garnish with a drizzle of the now-cooled balsamic vinegar glaze: your Parmesan baskets with crunchy apple salad are ready !
The crunchy apple salad should be eaten immediately. The glaze can be stored in the fridge, sealed, for 5-6 days. The Parmesan baskets can also be stored in the fridge, in an airtight container, for up to 3 days, but they will gradually lose their crispiness: immediate consumption is therefore recommended.
Want to make your salad even crunchier? Add walnut kernels or a handful of toasted hazelnuts!

