name:
Thanksgiving Stuffed Chicken
ingredients:
Chicken: 4.4lbs(2 kg)- whole (deboned)
Rennet apple: 2
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
White wine: 3.4oz(100 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Vegetable broth: to taste
Pork: 7.1oz(200 g)- ground
Sweet Pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)- diced
Luganega sausage: 1.8oz(50 g)
Onions: 1- medium
Carrots: 1- medium
Celery: 1rib
Garlic: 1clove
Breadcrumbs: ¼cup(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 h 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
There is no need to go to America to celebrate Thanksgiving at the table! In fact, with this recipe, we want to pay homage to the traditional American "Thanksgiving Day," bringing it a bit closer! Instead of the classic and hearty stuffed turkey, we propose a Thanksgiving stuffed chicken, more suitable in size for our home ovens! The stuffing also has "made in Italy" flavors, with luganega sausage, minced pork meat, and vegetables. If you prefer to get closer to the American version, you might try stuffing the chicken with prunes, chestnuts, or wild rice, which are often the main ingredients of the stuffing. However, we left an American touch: apples to accompany the chicken, baked in the oven along with the meat to add sweetness to the dish. What are you waiting for to prepare this succulent and crispy Thanksgiving stuffed chicken? Ask your trusted butcher for a deboned chicken; it will be easier to cut once cooked to offer to your relatives and friends at the table!
Also, check out the recipe for Stuffed Capon !
To prepare the Thanksgiving stuffed chicken, start by making the vegetable broth , then focus on the stuffing. Clean and coarsely chop the onion, carrot, and celery stalk. Then place the vegetables in the mixer to chop them finely . Then pour them into a bowl and add the minced pork meat .
Next, remove the casing from the sausage and finely chop it with a knife , then add it to the stuffing .
Mix the dough by hand ; at this point, also add the breadcrumbs and grated Parmigiano Reggiano .
Mix the dough with your hands again , then add the nutmeg and the whole egg .
Continue mixing the dough to incorporate the last ingredients , then add the diced bacon . Mix everything again by hand .
Now that the dough is ready , you can take your chicken. If possible, it's better to use a deboned chicken from your trusted butcher. Remove any large feathers with your hands and pass the chicken over a lit burner to singe it and remove the small feathers. Then start stuffing the chicken .
Once the stuffing is done, proceed to seal the chicken: take a large kitchen needle (or the largest needle you have in your sewing kit) and some kitchen twine. Sew the edges of the chicken , taking a bit of meat where the skin is thinner. When finished, massage the chicken with butter so the skin will turn crispy during cooking. Now your stuffed chicken is ready to be cooked .
Take a large pan suitable for oven cooking, then pour a drizzle of oil at the bottom. Then add the butter and place the stuffed chicken .
Brown the chicken before deglazing it with white wine , and when it has evaporated, baste it with vegetable broth and the cooking juices. Then place the stuffed chicken in a preheated static oven at 400°F for about 1 hour, turning it every 15-20 minutes. After the necessary time has passed, take the pippin apples, wash them under running water, cut them into quarters and remove only the stem. Then place them in the pan and put it back in the static oven to cook for at least another hour and a half. Once the cooking time is over, take out your Thanksgiving stuffed chicken and serve it hot!
You can store the Thanksgiving stuffed chicken for 1 day in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap. You can prepare the stuffed chicken 12-24 hours in advance if you use fresh, not thawed chicken, and keep it raw in the refrigerator to cook it later as needed. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of apples, you can accompany the Thanksgiving stuffed chicken with baby potatoes.
Thanksgiving in the United States was established in 1620 by the settlers to celebrate the abundance of the harvest as a sign of gratitude. For almost 400 years, the holiday has always been celebrated; today, for example, one of the most anticipated moments is the famous "Thanksgiving Day" parade in New York, but particularly in all American homes, friends, relatives, neighbors, and acquaintances gather to share the festive day convivially.

