name:
Chickpea and Chestnut Soup
ingredients:
Dried chickpeas: 1 ½cup(300 g)- null
Chestnuts: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Fennel seeds: to taste
Water: 4 ¼cups(1.2 l)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves
Rosemary: 1sprig

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 24 hours of soaking dried chickpeas

instructions:
When the air smells of fireplaces and roasted chestnuts and the cold makes us wrap up in wool coats, it's that time of year when it's most enjoyable to come home and be tempted by a restorative, steaming, and aromatic dish that will warm our hearts... like our chickpea and chestnut soup: the ideal comfort food to indulge in during the autumn season. This delicious chickpea and chestnut soup has many tasty variations scattered across Italy: the Abruzzo version, the Umbrian version, the Lunigiana version... a thread of sweetness that crosses the Apennines, where chestnuts grew abundantly in the forests, on the "bread trees" that for centuries have been the wealth of mountain people and still are for us who continue to love simple and genuine foods. The chickpea and chestnut soup is a timeless dish that will conquer you with its rustic and sincere taste... definitely worth trying, along with these other autumnal preparations:

To make the chickpea and chestnut soup, first, you need to soak the dried chickpeas for 24 hours . After this time, rinse them thoroughly under running water and drain them , then boil them in 5 cups of water for an hour .
Meanwhile, wash the chestnuts , place them in a pot with cold water, bay leaves, and fennel seeds and cook them from the boiling point for 35-40 minutes or until they are tender. In the meantime, the chickpeas will have also cooked, turn off the heat and salt them; it is recommended not to salt the chickpeas during cooking, otherwise, they will harden. Shell the chestnuts
collect the pulp in a bowl, crumbling it coarsely . Peel the garlic and slice it thinly . In a pan, heat a drizzle of olive oil, add the sliced garlic and sauté
then add the crumbled chestnuts and let them absorb the flavor. Finally, add the chickpeas with their water , flavor with a whole rosemary sprig so it will be easier to remove,
salt, pepper , and continue cooking for another 15 minutes, stirring often. By the end of the cooking time, the chestnuts will have partially dissolved . Serve the chickpea and chestnut soup hot with a drizzle of olive oil and a bit of freshly ground pepper if desired .
Store the chickpea and chestnut soup in the refrigerator for a couple of days. It is possible to freeze the preparation after cooking.
If desired, you can enrich the soup with tomato sauce. It is recommended not to salt the chickpeas during cooking, otherwise, they will become hard. If you already have pre-cooked chestnuts, use about 14 oz. If you are using pre-cooked chickpeas, the amount will be about 21 oz.

