name:
Gluten-free Apple and Pecan Plumcake
ingredients:
Rennet apple: 1lb(450 g)
Gluten free rice flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Gluten free buckwheat flour: 1cup(120 g)
Sunflower seed oil: ¾cup(180 g)
Brown sugar: ½cup(120 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (2 medium, at room temperature)
Pecans: ⅓cup(50 g)
Oranges: 1
Gluten free powdered yeast for sweets: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Brown sugar: to taste
Cinnamon powder: to taste
Gluten free powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 8

instructions:
Taste, softness, aroma... even without using classic ingredients, you can achieve delicious recipes suitable for the whole family. Like the gluten-free apple and pecan plumcake! Instead of all-purpose flour, rice flour and buckwheat flour are used, which not only make the cake more rustic in flavor but also extra soft. To enrich the plumcake, perfect for breakfast or a snack, there are Reinette apples and pecans. Two wellness ingredients that add sweetness and richness to the plumcake. To make the gluten-free apple and pecan plumcake even more delicious, we dipped the apple slices in orange juice, so they release an irresistible mix of sweet aromas during baking! The pleasantly crunchy note of exotic pecans will give a unique touch to this delightful recipe. Enjoy the plumcake in the morning or at tea time, it will be a perfect autumn treat.
Enrich your gluten-free recipe book with Rice flour cookies , easy and tasty!
To make the gluten-free apple and pecan plumcake, first wash the apples, then cut them in half, remove the core with a small knife and cut two and a half apples into 1/8 inch slices . Cut the remaining half into 3/16 inch slices , these will be used for decoration.
Place the apple slices in two different bowls and drizzle them with orange juice . Now prepare the batter: in a bowl, break the eggs, add the brown sugar and beat with a hand whisk until you get a light mixture. Also add the salt .
Flavor the batter with grated orange zest and vegetable oil . Incorporate these ingredients with the whisk, then also add the buckwheat flour .
Also add the rice flour and baking powder. All products should have the classic crossed-out ear, indicating certified gluten-free products. Mix again until the batter is homogeneous . At this point, add the pecans .
Then also add the 1/8 inch apple slices . Butter and flour a plumcake pan that measures 10.63x4.33 inches . Pour the batter into the pan .
Smooth the surface with a spatula . Arrange the thicker apple slices on top, next to each other and sprinkle with brown sugar . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 55 minutes. Once cooked, take the gluten-free apple and pecan plumcake out of the oven, let it cool slightly, then remove it from the pan and dust with powdered sugar and ground cinnamon .
The gluten-free apple and pecan plumcake can be stored for 2-3 days under a glass dome. You can freeze the already cooked plumcake, perhaps already divided into portions.
Make sure the apples are well drizzled with orange juice so they do not turn brown!
For gluten-free recipes, we recommend purchasing only products that have the crossed-out ear on the packaging, certified gluten-free, and recommended by the AIC Italian Celiac Association's handbook.

