name:
Sweet Potato Pie
ingredients:
Butter: ½cup(125 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Lemon peel: 1
Sweet potatoes (or yams): 1.5lbs(700 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 ml)
Brown sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Cinnamon sticks: ½tsp
Nutmeg: to taste
Oranges: 1- the zest and juice
Cloves: - the tip of 1 teaspoon
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 1.4tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The famous sweet potato, with its slightly sweetened flesh, is the star of this recipe, a classic of American tradition and an indispensable dessert for Thanksgiving Day: the sweet potato pie, a crumbly pastry shell that encloses a delicious filling made with a puree of potatoes flavored with spices and orange zest, making this pie incredibly fragrant! This dessert is simple yet rich in flavors, come and discover it.
To make the sweet potato pie, start by preparing the shortcrust pastry : put the flour, a pinch of salt, and the butter just taken out of the fridge into pieces in the mixer. Blend everything until you get a sandy-looking mixture, add the sugar, and lemon zest to flavor the dough. Then pour in the egg yolks and quickly combine everything until you get a compact and rather elastic dough.
Form the dough into a ball, wrap it in cling film , and let it rest in the fridge for at least half an hour. Prepare the filling: peel the potatoes , cut them into cubes
cook them in a pot full of water for about 15-20 minutes, until they are soft, test by poking them with a fork. Drain them and mash them into a puree with a potato masher , collect the puree in a bowl,
season with grated nutmeg , grated orange zest , ground cloves
and cinnamon . Add cocoa powder , brown sugar, and whole eggs
and fresh cream , mix with a spatula to combine the ingredients , squeeze the orange juice ,
strain it through a sieve to catch the seeds and then incorporate the juice into the mixture . Butter and flour a 10-inch diameter pan
Take the shortcrust pastry out of the fridge, roll it out with a rolling pin on a lightly floured surface , you should get a round sheet 0.4 inches thick that is larger than the pan so that it covers the edges of the mold. At this point, roll the pastry onto the rolling pin and unroll it over the mold , this way you avoid breaking the dough. Adhere the pastry to the base and edges, using a piece of dough wrapped in cling film .
Pour the filling into the base , and level the surface with a spatula . Bake the pie in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 1 hour (or in a convection oven at 300°F for 50 minutes). Your sweet potato pie is ready to be enjoyed !
Store the sweet potato pie in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in an airtight container.
If you want to make the potatoes even more flavorful during cooking, replace half of the water with milk.
The sweet potato is commonly called an American potato, although its actual name is batata. It is part of the 'Convolvulaceae' family and not the nightshades like the more common potatoes we are used to knowing and usually consuming; it is associated with our idea of potato mainly because of its appearance, which resembles that of our tubers. It is an herbaceous plant native to the Americas and was imported to Europe after the colonization of the New World and even in the Old Continent, it became widely consumed, especially for creating sweet dishes.

