name:
Stuffed Focaccia with Broccoli Rabe and Sausage
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Water: 1 ½cup(340 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Sausage: 10.6oz(300 g)
Spicy Provolone cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Broccoli rabe: 10.6oz(300 g)- cleaned
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note plus the rising times (about 2 hours)

instructions:
The stuffed focaccia with broccoli rabe and sausage comes from the union of two recipes we love the most: the classic focaccia , which is made throughout Italy, and one of the typical main dishes of southern Italy, namely Turnip tops with sausage . The result of this combo will surprise and conquer your taste buds and those of your guests. Similar to a rustic pizza, this focaccia is perfect to prepare for an aperitif or by cutting it into squares to enrich a buffet. But you can also enjoy it at room temperature and take it with you for a picnic or a quick lunch break! If you love focaccia, here are other ideas to try:
To prepare the stuffed focaccia with broccoli rabe and sausage, start with the dough. In a bowl, combine the flours , dry yeast , and water , poured a little at a time to assess the absorption of the flours and adjust the dosage if necessary. Also, add the salt at this stage.
Mix well in the bowl with a fork , then transfer the dough to the workbench and knead it well until it is well incorporated . At this point, add the oil in three batches , continuing to knead.
Continue to knead, making folds, and work for at least 5 minutes. When the dough is smooth and homogeneous, try lifting it; if it remains elastic and doesn't tear, it means it's ready . Let the dough rise in a lightly oiled bowl, covered with plastic wrap , for about 2 hours (or until doubled in volume) at room temperature. In the meantime, focus on the filling. First, clean the broccoli rabe by removing all the stems .
Once you have all the leaves , wash them well and let them drain. Heat a drizzle of oil in a non-stick pan with garlic and chili pepper . When they have released their flavor, remove them .
Add the broccoli rabe , stir and cover with a lid. Cook for about 10 minutes until wilted. Salt them and transfer them to a bowl to cool .
Now move on to the sausage. Cut it open and remove the casing . Break it up roughly with your hands . In the same pan where you cooked the broccoli rabe, add a drizzle of oil, turn on the heat, and add the sausage .
Brown over high heat for 6-7 minutes, stirring occasionally . Meanwhile, chop the broccoli rabe and transfer them back to a bowl. Add the well-browned sausage .
Mix well and set aside. When the dough has risen well , transfer it to the bench and divide it into two portions using a dough cutter .
Once you have two equal portions, work them slightly to obtain spheres . Take one, keeping the other well covered, flatten it slightly with your hands , then roll it out with a rolling pin and a pinch of flour .
Try to obtain a rectangle the size of the baking pan (14.5x9.8 inches) . If the dough retracts during rolling, it means you have overworked it. Let it rest for a few minutes well covered. At this point, lightly oil the baking pan and transfer one rectangle inside, covering the entire surface, pressing it to the edges with your fingers .
Pour the filling in the center and spread it out, leaving a couple of centimeters (0.8 inches) of free edge . Add the grated provolone on top . Roll out the second portion of dough as before and place it on top .
Press the edges with your fingers to adhere them well . Then turn them over, making small pinches to create a decorative pattern . Spread the surface of the focaccia with extra virgin olive oil and brush it carefully .
Make holes with scissors , so the filling can cook well. Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for 60 minutes. When the focaccia is well golden, take it out of the oven and serve hot or warm.
You can store the focaccia in the refrigerator for 2 days. We recommend reheating it in the oven before serving.
Alternatively, once cooled, you can freeze the focaccia, either in pieces or whole.
If you prefer, you can use another stringy cheese instead of provolone. The important thing is that it doesn't contain too much liquid, like mozzarella. Don't throw away the broccoli rabe stems but boil them for a few minutes, then blend them with oil, Pecorino cheese, and a pinch of salt to make a tasty quick pesto, perfect for seasoning pasta.

