name:
Pumpkin flan
ingredients:
Delica pumpkin: 10.6oz(300 g)- cleaned
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3spoonfuls- to grate
Garlic: 1clove
Sage: to taste
Whole milk: (150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.6cup(150 g)
Eggs: 3
Gorgonzola cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Whole milk: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¼cup(50 g)
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pumpkin flans are delicious autumn appetizers, small single servings with a delicate flavor, ideal as a tasty aperitif. In contrast to the sweet taste of the pumpkin pulp, we garnished the flans with a Gorgonzola cream, a blue cheese with a strong flavor. This recipe lends itself to numerous variations: for example, you can enrich the filling of the pumpkin flan with diced bacon or replace half the dose of Parmigiano Reggiano DOP with Pecorino. If you prefer to keep it lighter, you could make a goat cheese cream using only milk. Color your table by preparing many different flan recipes, like the leek flan with anchovy sauce , and also discover our pumpkin and porcini mushroom flan !
Here you will find other tasty and refined recipes with pumpkin:
To prepare the pumpkin flans, take the pumpkin, cut it in half, remove the seeds , then remove the skin and cut it first into slices and then into cubes .
In a pan, heat a dash of oil with sage and garlic , add the diced pumpkin , salt, cover with the lid , and stew for about 15 minutes until it is soft.
When the pumpkin is cooked , pour it into the tall cup of the mixer with the milk .
Add the cream , eggs , and Parmigiano Reggiano DOP .
Blend with the immersion mixer to obtain a smooth and fluid mixture . Butter 8 aluminum molds of 4.23 oz .
Pour the mixture inside up to one finger from the edge . Place the molds in a baking dish with water for bain-marie cooking . Bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for 35 minutes. For the sauce: heat milk and cream almost to boiling .
Add the Gorgonzola in pieces and melt it, stirring with a whisk . For a smoother sauce, blend everything with an immersion mixer, with the heat off .
The sauce is ready , remove the pumpkin flans from the oven and turn them out onto a serving dish , then garnish with the cheese sauce .
You can store the pumpkin flans without sauce in the refrigerator for up to 2-3 days in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap. It is possible to freeze the flans if fresh ingredients have been used.
If you want a smoother mixture, you can strain the batter before pouring it into the molds.
Color your table with flans of different colors by varying the fillings with beets, tomatoes, spinach to create a tasty aperitif!
If you prefer an even stronger flavor, replace half the dose of Parmigiano Reggiano DOP for the filling with Pecorino!

