name:
Rose Cake
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2.8oz(80 g)
Whole milk: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Butter: 0.4oz(10 g)- cold
Manitoba flour: 3.8cups(450 g)
Sugar: (80 g)
Butter: 7.1oz(100 g)- cold
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(15 g)
Eggs: 4.2oz(120 g)- (2 medium)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(190 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)
Sugar: (150 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 7
Cost: Low
Note + the leavening time (about 4 hours)

instructions:
The Rose Cake is a dessert typical of the Mantuan culinary tradition. Its historical origins date back to the late 15th century, the Rose Cake was created on the occasion of the wedding between Francesco II of Gonzaga and Isabella d'Este, and it was so appreciated by all the nobles of the time that from that moment it became part of the Mantuan gastronomic culture and is still made today following the ancient recipe. The Rose Cake is made with leavened brioche dough, enriched with a rich filling of butter and sugar, which is rolled up to take on the characteristic shape of a basket of rosebuds that gives this tasty cake its name. A delicious gift to offer on Mother's Day!
Try other delicious versions of this cake:
To prepare the Rose Cake, start by preparing the starter dough. Pour the flour , crumbled yeast , and butter into a bowl.
Add the milk and mix with a spoon until you get a homogeneous mixture .
Knead a little on the counter , then form a ball and let it rise in a bowl covered with plastic wrap at room temperature for 45/60 minutes or until it doubles in size .
After the necessary time, put the starter dough, flour , crumbled brewer's yeast in a stand mixer equipped with a hook and start kneading at medium speed. Also add the milk .
Knead until the mixture is homogeneous . At this point, add the sugar and let it absorb completely. Increase the speed and add one egg . Once the dough has absorbed it, add the second egg.
Continue working the dough until it is well combined . Now, with the mixer on, start adding the butter cubes, softening them with your fingers as you add them . Add a piece of butter at a time, slowly, until the dough is smooth and well formed .
Add the salt and continue kneading at low speed for another 5 minutes. Then transfer the dough to the work surface and shape it into a ball .
Place the dough in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap for about 2 hours or until it has doubled in volume. In the meantime, prepare the filling in a bowl. Soften the butter with a spatula and add the sugar .
Mix well and set it aside . If the temperature is not very high, you can leave the mixture at room temperature, otherwise put it in the refrigerator. Also prepare the syrup that will be used to glaze the cake. Pour the water and sugar into a saucepan . Bring to a boil and when the sugar is completely dissolved, turn off the heat. Let it cool.
When the dough is well risen , transfer it to a lightly floured work surface and flatten it with your hands . Now, using a rolling pin, roll it out .
You will need to obtain a rectangle about 20x12 inches . Using a spatula, transfer the butter mixture to the center and spread it over the entire surface .
Lift the dough from the side closest to you and roll it up on the longer side . Once you have the roll, cut the first slice about 3 inches thick .
Then cut 6 more slices, slightly smaller, about 2.5-2.75 inches each. Place them in a 9-inch springform pan, previously buttered, with the cut side facing up. The 3-inch slice should be placed in the center of the pan , while the other 6 can be placed around it . There will be empty spaces between the roses, don't worry, they will fill up as the dough rises. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for another hour.
After the rising time, beat together the egg yolk and cream in a bowl . Take your cake, you will notice that there are no more spaces between the roses and they have doubled in size. Brush the cake with the egg yolk and cream mixture , covering it completely .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 10 minutes. Then lower the oven to 320°F and continue baking for 30 minutes. The cake will be ready when the roses are golden brown. Take it out of the oven and brush it with the syrup prepared earlier . Let it cool for about 30 minutes and enjoy it warm, but not hot, to appreciate its full aroma !
Store the Rose Cake under a glass dome for up to 2-3 days.
You can enrich the Rose Cake with a thin layer of jam. You can flavor the butter mixture used for the filling with a vanilla bean. If you want to prepare the cake in advance, we recommend heating it in the oven at 210°F for 6-7 minutes before serving.

