name:
Sautéed Porcini Mushrooms
ingredients:
Porcini mushrooms: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parsley: to taste- minced
Garlic: 2cloves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
With its unmistakable taste, the king of the undergrowth is certainly the porcini mushroom, and there are countless recipes to make with this variety. Let's start with the basics: sautéed porcini mushrooms, a simple side dish to prepare at home and serve with many main courses, both meat and fish. Porcini mushrooms are among the most prized and sought-after in our country thanks to their natural aroma and excellent flavor. We show you how to clean porcini mushrooms thoroughly and how to quickly cook them in a pan, enhancing them with garlic and parsley! Sautéed porcini mushrooms are also great for dressing a plate of pasta, such as the famous tagliatelle , or to accompany polenta, or even to add to soups.
Here are more porcini ideas not to miss:
To prepare sautéed porcini mushrooms, start by cleaning the mushrooms: with a knife, remove the lower part where the soil is present ; then gently scrape the stem and the upper part, removing the soil present. With a rotary movement, separate the caps from the stems (if you notice that the mushrooms contain small parasites, perform this operation holding the mushrooms upside down, so that the parasites tend to climb towards the tip of the stem; at that point, you can remove them by cutting off the tip along with the soil). If the mushrooms are large, they clean more easily and it is not necessary to divide them. Using a brush, remove any soil even from the inner part of the cap .
Finally, pass a damp cloth over the mushrooms to remove further residues . Cut the mushrooms into slices of about 0.2 inches , then brown two cloves of garlic in a pan with a drizzle of oil .
Add the sliced mushrooms and cook them over low heat for no more than 10 minutes. Meanwhile, finely chop the parsley .
Occasionally stir the mushrooms gently and when there are a couple of minutes left before the end of cooking, remove the garlic , then season with salt .
Grind black pepper to taste , finally add the parsley . Mix well and serve the sautéed porcini mushrooms !
Store the sautéed porcini mushrooms in an airtight container, in the refrigerator, for up to 2-3 days. Once cooked, they can be frozen; before consuming, they can be revived in a pan for a few moments.
If the mushrooms are very dirty, they can be quickly rinsed under cold running water; it is not recommended to wash the mushrooms for a long time because they absorb water. Frozen mushrooms can also be used, cooking them directly from frozen. In this case, the cooking time may vary. Dried mushrooms can also be used, but they must first be soaked for at least 10 minutes in cold water.

