name:
Bonet
ingredients:
Amaretti cookies: 7.1oz(200 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4.6tbsp(35 g)
Egg yolks: 1- (medium)
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Sugar: 0.8cup(150 g)
Eggs: 4- (medium)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Amaretto (liquor): 2spoonfuls
Sugar: (150 g)
Water: (50 g)
Amaretti cookies: to taste- for garnish

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time

instructions:
The bonet (or bunet) is a spoon dessert typical of Piedmont cuisine. It is a pudding to be served as a dessert made with cocoa, amaretti cookies, and caramel. Its elegant presentation makes it perfect to serve at the end of a meal. The origin of the term "bonet" is controversial: it could be related to the dialect term for a hat used in the past, or it might refer to the copper mold in which it was baked, known as "bonèt ëd cusin-a," meaning chef's hat. Bonet is an ancient dessert with many variations, each more delicious than the last, like our Bonet with Lemon , fresh and aromatic! Rediscover the traditional flavors with us and also try other recipes like ravioli del plin and braised beef in Barolo wine for a dinner or lunch of Piedmont delicacies!
To prepare the bonet, start with the caramel: in a saucepan, pour 1.7 oz of water , then 5.3 oz of sugar , heat over the fire without stirring , until the mixture becomes amber.
Once ready , pour the caramel into a 9x3 inch loaf pan and set it aside .
In a bowl, pour the eggs , the yolk , and the sugar , mix with a whisk .
Sift the cocoa , add a pinch of salt , then crumble the amaretti cookies .
Flavor with the liqueur , then pour in the milk, stirring gradually . The mixture is ready .
Pour everything into the mold . Cook in a bain-marie as follows: take a large baking dish that can hold the bonet mold, then fill it with boiling water up to 1 inch from the base of the mold. Place it in the oven and set the temperature to 300°F, static mode. Once at temperature, open the oven and insert the bonet mold into the baking dish. Then cook for about 50-60 minutes . Once ready, open the oven and check the cooking. If the mixture moves too much when shaking the mold, continue cooking for another 10 minutes. Once ready, remove everything from the oven and carefully take the mold out of the baking dish .
Let it cool completely at room temperature. Once cold , to unmold the bonet more easily, just slightly heat only the base (with a blowtorch, a lighter, or even on the gas if there are no other options), be careful not to bring the flame too close and it takes just a few moments: turn it over onto a cutting board or serving plate . Decorate with whole amaretti cookies and serve your homemade bonet immediately .
The bonet keeps in the fridge for 2-3 days.
Instead of amaretto, you can use rum.


