name:
Cold Pumpkin Cheesecake
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 7oz(200 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Delica pumpkin: 1.4lbs(650 g)- (to clean)
Cinnamon sticks: 2
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Cardamon: 4
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.6cup(140 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.6cup(80 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Cinnamon powder: ¼tsp
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Dark chocolate: 0.7oz(20 g)- in flakes
Powdered sugar: 1tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the time to set in the refrigerator (at least 4-6 h)

instructions:
Whatever its form and variety, pumpkin is definitely the quintessential autumn vegetable. Thanks to its sweet and velvety flesh, it is perfect for making desserts like muffins , rolls , cakes … and cheesecake: today let's see together how to prepare cold pumpkin cheesecake! The soft cream of ricotta and steamed pumpkin is characterized by a delicately spiced flavor that is enhanced by the combination with the cookie and chocolate base. For decoration, we chose simple tufts of whipped cream, but you can personalize it by adding, for example, caramelized pecans or a macabre chocolate spider web that will make it perfect even for Halloween night!
Try these delicious cheesecake variations as well:
To make the cold pumpkin cheesecake, first cut the pumpkin into slices , remove the skin and cut the flesh into small cubes : you will need a total of 450 g (15.87 oz) of cleaned pumpkin.
Fill a steamer with water, add the cinnamon sticks, rosemary sprigs, and cardamom seeds , and bring to a boil. Place the pumpkin in the basket , cover with the lid , and steam for about 20 minutes or until well cooked.
Meanwhile, prepare the base: chop the dark chocolate with a knife and melt it in the microwave or in a bain-marie , then put the cookies in a mixer and blend to reduce to a powder.
Add the melted chocolate to the cookie powder and mix with a spatula to blend well . Now place an 18 cm (7.09 inches) ring on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and, if possible, line the sides with an acetate sheet to make it easier to remove. Spread the cookie mixture inside the ring and compact well with the back of a spoon , then let the base set in the fridge for 20-30 minutes.
Meanwhile, soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for about 10 minutes . When the pumpkin is cooked, place it in a mixer and blend to a puree , then let it cool.
At this point, heat 40 g (1.41 oz) of cream in a saucepan, remove from heat and add the well-wrung gelatin . Stir with a whisk to dissolve completely and let it cool. Put the ricotta in a large bowl and add the cinnamon .
Whip the ricotta with an electric mixer, adding the powdered sugar and the remaining 100 g (3.53 oz) of liquid cream , then also pour in the cream in which you dissolved the gelatin .
Finally, add the pumpkin puree and mix with a spatula until a homogeneous mixture is obtained . Take the base from the fridge and pour the pumpkin cream inside the mold .
Level the surface and let it set in the fridge for at least 4-6 hours. After the cooling time, you can focus on the decoration: whip the cream with the powdered sugar and transfer the whipped cream to a pastry bag .
Place the chilled cheesecake on a serving plate using the parchment paper , then gently remove the ring and the acetate sheet. Decorate the edge with tufts of whipped cream and with dark chocolate shavings obtained with a potato peeler: your cold pumpkin cheesecake is ready to be served !
The cold pumpkin cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended as the pumpkin would release a lot of water.
As an alternative to steaming, you can cook the pumpkin in a pan with two fingers of water: once cooked, you will need to let it drain in a colander to remove excess water. Oven cooking is not recommended.

