name:
Pumpkin and Carrot Cupcake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: 0.53cup(120 g)- soft
Eggs: 4.2oz(120 g)- at room temperature
Brown sugar: 1cup(180 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.6cup(150 g)
Carrots: 6oz(175 g)- cleaned
Butternut squash: 6 ¼cups(175 g)- cleaned
Lemon peel: ½
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp(3 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Baking powder: 1.4tsp(8 g)
Butter: 14.1oz(400 g)- soft
Acacia honey: 6.8tbsp(100 g)
Vanilla extract: ½tsp

info:
Difficulty: Average
Makes: 12 pieces

instructions:
Small soft cakes covered with velvety and delicious creams: that's how cupcakes are presented! Inspired by these made-in-USA delights, we offer you here a variant that best enhances the flavor of the sweetest vegetables in nature: pumpkin and carrot cupcakes, scented with cinnamon and with a delicious butter frosting. These single-portion sweets are made with a soft base enriched with a genuine vegetable puree, and after baking, the cinnamon-flavored butter frosting will give these irresistible cupcakes an extra boost!
To make the pumpkin and carrot cupcakes, first wash and trim the carrots, then cut them into coarse pieces . Clean the pumpkin, remove the seeds and cut it into pieces . Place the vegetable pieces in a tall glass .
Pour the heavy cream and blend with an immersion mixer to obtain a puree . Place the softened butter pieces in a bowl
add the sugar , grated lemon zest , and salt .
Start whisking with an electric mixer, incorporating the eggs one at a time, the vegetable puree , and the flour .
Also add the baking powder and ground cinnamon . Continue mixing with the beaters until you get a homogeneous mixture .
Pour the batter into 12 paper liners placed in as many aluminum molds with a capacity of about 1/2 cup each. Bake the cupcakes in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40 minutes. After baking, take the cakes out and let them cool . Prepare the frosting: in a bowl, pour the softened butter and the vanilla extract .
and the honey , beat with the electric mixer until you obtain a smooth and lump-free cream .
Transfer the cream into a piping bag with a 5/8-inch star tip . Retrieve the cupcakes, top them with the buttercream and ground cinnamon. The pumpkin and carrot cupcakes are ready to be enjoyed .
The pumpkin and carrot cupcakes can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. The cupcake base can be prepared the day before and kept under a glass dome away from air. The frosting can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days.
You can also use a 12-muffin pan for baking the cupcakes, making sure to insert the paper liners inside.

