name:
Paccheri with Rib Cut à la Genovese
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
White onions: 5cups(800 g)
Beef steak: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Carrots: ½cup(100 g)
Celery: 1cup(100 g)
White wine: 3.5oz(100 g)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Chives: 3tbsp(20 g)
Marjoram: 4tsp(20 g)
Parsley: ½cup(20 g)
Basil: 10tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The paccheri with rib cut à la Genovese is a refined homage to Neapolitan tradition, reinterpreted with great mastery by chef Alberto Marcolongo, Executive Chef of the renowned Benoit restaurant in New York, part of the prestigious Alain Ducasse group. The carefully chosen ingredients tell a story of deep flavors and enveloping aromas: the meat, slowly cooked until tender and succulent, blends perfectly with the sweet onions, which, through hours of patient cooking, transform into a rich and creamy sauce, capable of enhancing every bite of pasta. The result is a main course that, while respecting the authenticity of the classic Neapolitan Genovese , stands out for its touch of modern and innovative elegance.
If the recipe for paccheri with rib cut à la Genovese has captivated you, also try the Octopus Genovese , a delicious seafood variant!
To prepare the paccheri with rib cut à la Genovese, start by generously salting the meat , then sear it in extra virgin olive oil in a large pan .
While the meat is cooking, peel and slice the onions , then clean and dice the celery and carrots .
When the meat is well caramelized, remove it from the pan and set it aside . In the same pan, add the onions and let them flavor for a few moments .
Add the celery and carrots , then flavor with bay leaves .
Season with salt and black pepper and let cook over low heat for about 10 minutes, covering with a lid to aid in the cooking of the onions. Once they are ready, put the meat back in the pan and deglaze with white wine .
Let everything cook for about 4-5 hours on a very low heat with the lid on, until the meat becomes tender and starts to fall off the bone . At this point, remove the meat from the pan and shred it , then adjust the seasoning to your taste.
Add the shredded meat to the onion sauce , stir to flavor , and remove the bay leaves .
Meanwhile, cook the paccheri in plenty of salted water for the time indicated on the package . Meanwhile, chop marjoram, parsley, and chives . Drain the paccheri a few minutes before the end of cooking and add them to the sauce .
Fragrance with the chopped herbs and hand-tear the basil . Finish with grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP .
Stir to combine and serve immediately your paccheri with rib cut à la Genovese, adding more aromatic herbs if desired !
It is recommended to consume the paccheri with rib cut à la Genovese immediately.
The sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days in an airtight container. If you prefer, you can freeze it.
The basil should be torn by hand to prevent it from oxidizing upon contact with the knife blade, turning dark and more bitter. This way, the aroma and delicate flavor are better preserved.

