name:
Florentine Tripe
ingredients:
Tripe: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Peeled tomatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
White onions: 2
Carrots: 2
Celery: 2ribs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to be grated)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Florentine tripe is one of the most well-known tripe recipes, not only because of its ease of preparation but also for its simple yet robust flavor. A main dish for true enthusiasts, for those who love more authentic tripe recipes, in the case of Florentine tripe, also very rustic! We've recovered the original, ancient, and very simple recipe made only of tripe, peeled tomatoes, and extra virgin olive oil. To season and complete, a very fine mince of celery, carrot, and onion, and a sprinkle of grated Parmigiano Reggiano PDO. It's not necessary to cook the tripe for hours; the result should be rather creamy and not brothy. There are many nuances and precautions, based on different schools of thought and personal tastes, and we're here to show you our simple version!
Here are other traditional tripe recipes:

To prepare Florentine tripe, start with the soffritto : trim and peel the carrot , cut it into strips , then finely chop .
Then clean and finely chop the celery as well . Move on to the onion: remove the outer layer, then make cuts without reaching the bottom both horizontally and vertically .
This way you can chop it effortlessly and uniformly . Pour the olive oil into a pan, then add the minced vegetables: the onion , followed by the carrot and celery .
Take the tripe (already washed and cleaned by your butcher) and cut it into strips: traditionally they would be larger, but you can make them thinner for quicker and easier cooking . Add it to the pan when the soffritto is wilted and well-flavored .
Let it absorb the flavors for about ten minutes, stirring occasionally . Add the peeled tomatoes , break them up a bit with the wooden spoon, and stir .
Cover with a lid and let cook for another 20 minutes over moderate heat . Remove the lid, salt and pepper to taste . Once ready, before removing from the heat, add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano PDO and mix.
If necessary, cook for a bit longer to reduce the sauce, as the tripe should not be brothy . Once ready, you can plate your Florentine tripe to be served hot with a crusty bread and more grated Parmigiano Reggiano PDO to taste.
You can store Florentine tripe for 1-2 days in the fridge in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
It's not necessary to cook the tripe for hours; the important thing is that it cooks in its own juices and that it does not end up brothy.

