name:
Mixed Bean and Pumpkin Salad
ingredients:
Beans: 8.8oz(250 g)- mixed dry (cannellini, borlotti, black-eyed peas)
Walnut kernels: ¼cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Thyme: 2sprigs
Delica pumpkin: 1.5lbs(700 g)- to clean
Shallot: 2.8oz(80 g)- to clean
Rosemary: 1sprig
Spinach: 1 ¼cup(35 g)
Lemon juice: ½

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Texture plays, autumn flavors. All enclosed in a rich and substantial side dish: mixed bean and pumpkin salad. A full of goodness with the qualities of cannellini beans, borlotti beans, and black-eyed peas combined with oven-cooked pumpkin pulp and the freshness of baby spinach. Try this unique salad for your autumn and winter dinners to accompany seared tuna or white meats. But you can also choose to eat it as a single course, perfect also as takeaway food to prepare in advance for your work lunches!
To prepare the mixed bean and pumpkin salad, start with the legumes. The mix of dried beans (cannellini, borlotti, and black-eyed peas) should be rehydrated in water so that they cook quickly. Let them rehydrate for 24 hours : it is advisable to change the water after the first 12 hours to remove impurities that will surface. After the time has passed, rinse the beans and pour them into a pot with plenty of cold water ,
add a bay leaf and put it on the stove . Let it come to a boil, then let it simmer for a couple of hours, checking from time to time to ensure they are the desired consistency. The important thing is that the beans, once cooked, remain a bit crunchy, perfect for mixing into the salad. While the beans are cooking, you can focus on the pumpkin: remove the internal seeds and peel it .
First cut the pulp into thick slices and then into cubes of about 3/4 inch . You should obtain about 21 oz of pulp. Clean the shallot and cut it into not too thin slices .
Combine them with the pumpkin in a bowl , flavor with rosemary needles . Salt and pepper to taste .
Also season with a drizzle of oil and mix everything . Distribute the pumpkin on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 430°F for about 30 minutes. Once ready, remove the pumpkin and shallots from the oven and let them cool completely . Briefly toast the walnut kernels in a pan over moderate heat. Then let them cool down. Meanwhile, the beans will be cooked; remove the bay leaf
and drain the legumes . Let them cool completely. Once cold, you can add the fresh baby spinach (previously washed and dried), season with oil , lemon juice , salt, and pepper to taste. Mix everything together
before plating: place the mixed legumes and baby spinach on a serving plate, add the pumpkin , and finish with walnut kernels and fresh thyme leaves . Your mixed bean and pumpkin salad is ready to be enjoyed !
Once your mixed bean and pumpkin salad is composed, it is recommended to eat it immediately to avoid the ingredients wilting.
The beans can be cooked in advance and stored for 1-2 days in the refrigerator.
If you have a pressure cooker, you can use it to halve the cooking time of the beans, being careful not to let them become mushy. The mixed bean and pumpkin salad can be enriched by adding cubes of aged cheese or, if you prefer something fresh and light, cottage cheese or caciotta. Finally, for an extra touch of flavor and fragrance, decorate it with rings of fresh chili pepper, deprived of seeds and filaments.

