name:
Rustic Apple Cookies
ingredients:
Whole grain flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)- cold
Egg whites: 2.5oz(70 g)
Acacia honey: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Baking powder: ½tsp(3 g)
Fine salt: ½tsp(3 g)
Royal Gala apples: 2
Nut flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Almond flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Hazelnuts: ¼cup(30 g)
Orange juice: ¼cup(50 g)
Brown sugar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp
Eggs: 1
Brown sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 9 pieces
Note + the resting time for the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
There are aromas and flavors that remain etched in the mind and heart. At the first taste, you close your eyes and are transported to childhood places, within the walls of grandparents' house, in the countryside or by the fireplace. This happens when savoring rustic apple cookies, sweet treats of crumbly pastry with acacia honey that enclose a luscious filling of sweet apples, whole hazelnuts, and cinnamon. A small moment of pleasure to enjoy with coffee or a good tea. Rustic apple cookies will also delight you at breakfast.
To prepare rustic apple cookies, start with the pastry: in a stand mixer, add the brown sugar and cold butter in pieces . Also, add the pinch of salt and the acacia honey
and mix with the paddle attachment of the stand mixer until all the ingredients are blended. Add the egg whites , the seeds of half a vanilla pod , and mix again for about 1-2 minutes. Finally, add the flour and baking powder
and mix until you get a uniform and compact dough . Transfer it to a work surface, compact it, and wrap it in plastic wrap (8-9). Let the dough rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes.
Prepare the filling: wash and cut the apples first in half and then into wedges, then remove the core and seeds and cut them into slices . Put the apples in a pan with the sugar and cinnamon ,
also pour in the orange juice and cook with the lid on for about 5 minutes. Once ready, transfer them to a mixer along with the hazelnut flour and almond flour
and blend for a few seconds to create a homogeneous mixture . Coarsely chop the hazelnuts and add them to the obtained mixture in a bowl , mix , and transfer the filling to a piping bag.
Take the pastry, remove the plastic wrap, lightly dust the work surface, and roll out the dough with a rolling pin to form a 12x12 inch square. Trim the edges to give the correct size, then cut the square into 3 strips 4 inches wide . With the piping bag, make a strip of filling along the long side of each pastry strip .
Roll the pastry to cover the filling until completely sealed, forming 3 rolls . Let them rest in the refrigerator for 5 minutes. Then cut each roll into 3 pieces 4 inches long each and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Brush each cookie with beaten egg and sprinkle with brown sugar . Bake the rustic apple cookies in a preheated fan oven at 350°F on the middle rack for about 20 minutes. Once ready, remove from the oven and let your rustic apple cookies cool slightly before serving!
They can be stored for 3 days in the refrigerator. They can be frozen before or after baking.
You can further flavor the apples in the filling by adding other powdered spices or 0.5 oz (1 tbsp) of your chosen liqueur.

