name:
Easy Shortcrust Pastry
ingredients:
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)- cold from the fridge
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Water: 1.7oz(50 g)- iced
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Very low
Note plus the resting times for the dough

instructions:
Shortcrust pastry is a basic dough typical of French cuisine, widely used for the preparation of desserts, for covering savory pies including the famous Quiche Lorraine , but also for delicious appetizers or snacks, ideal for aperitifs and buffets. The success of shortcrust pastry is certainly due to its simple realization and versatility, in fact, it pairs perfectly with different types of ingredients, adding a note of crunchiness to every recipe that features it as the protagonist. If you are real cooking enthusiasts, you absolutely cannot miss this recipe, which will come in handy on many occasions. What are you waiting for? Prepare the shortcrust pastry and you will have a delicate and fragrant base that will allow you to prepare delicious baked recipes even at the last minute!
To prepare the shortcrust pastry, put in the mixer equipped with blades the flour , the cold butter in pieces from the fridge , a pinch of salt and blend everything for a few seconds.
Then add the iced water and work the dough again for 1-2 minutes until it has compacted. Transfer it to a pastry board ,
work it with your hands just for a moment . Wrap the dough ball in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 40 minutes before using your shortcrust pastry .
Store the shortcrust pastry in the refrigerator, sealed in an airtight container, for a couple of days at most. If you want, you can freeze the dough ball in the freezer for a month and thaw it as needed.
It's essential to remember that the butter must be cold, just taken out of the fridge: this way, you avoid it melting too quickly during baking and the pastry becoming hard. The thickness will naturally vary depending on the intended use: if your pastry will be the base for a pie, you will leave it 4-5 millimeters; if, instead, you need it to make tartlets or small tarts, you will roll it out a bit thinner. If you intend to make a savory pie with shortcrust pastry, to avoid the bottom remaining raw, you can perform a How to do blind baking , following the directions from our cooking school!
To roll out your shortcrust pastry, you can use rolling pins that can be filled with water and ice, so as not to overheat the pastry.

