name:
Chocolate pie cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 2
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Whole milk: 0.1cup(25 g)
Sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Lemon juice: ¼tbsp(3 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Hazelnuts: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 5 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Do you want to impress someone with a treat? Chocolate pie cakes are soft treats that no one can resist, as they combine the richness of Ganache cream with the intensity of Chocolate glaze and the crunchiness of nuts. Presented in delightful single portions, they will offer a unique experience with every bite thanks to the fusion of flavors and textures! Ideal for various occasions, chocolate pie cakes can be served at the end of a meal or to enrich a dessert buffet at a birthday party, but they will also be an unforgettable treat to indulge in every now and then!
Discover other similar treats:

To prepare the chocolate pie cakes, first separate the egg yolks from the egg whites into two bowls . In the bowl with the egg whites, add the sugar and lemon juice .
Add the salt and beat until you obtain a frothy mixture . Place it in the refrigerator.
In another bowl, pour the milk and oil , mix quickly, then add the flour . Mix for a couple of minutes with a hand whisk .
Add the egg yolks and mix once more . Pour this mixture into the bowl with the beaten egg whites and fold from the bottom up to avoid deflating the mixture . Place the mixture in the fridge while preheating the oven to 320°F.
Put the mixture in a piping bag without a nozzle and form domes on a baking tray lined with parchment paper ; with these quantities, you will get 10 domes . Bake at 320°F for 30-35 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool completely .
Meanwhile, prepare the ganache: chop the dark chocolate and put it in a bowl, then add the hot cream and stir until all the chocolate has melted .
Place the bowl inside another larger one filled with ice and water . Work with electric whisks until the mixture becomes frothy and changes color .
Transfer the ganache into a piping bag and fill 5 domes , then cover with the remaining ones . Chop the hazelnuts .
In a bowl, put the chopped dark chocolate, add the oil , and melt. Then add the hazelnuts and stir .
Dip the cakes into the chocolate, then let them drain to remove the excess . Place them on a rack and let the glaze set. Your chocolate pie cakes are ready to be enjoyed !
Chocolate pie cakes can be stored in the refrigerator in a closed container for 2-3 days.
If you wish, you can flavor the base mixture of the cakes with vanilla or lemon or orange zest.
Follow the steps carefully to achieve the right consistency, but keep in mind that it is normal for the domes to deflate slightly after baking.
Instead of hazelnuts, you can use other nuts or a mix.
As an alternative to ganache, you can make mascarpone cream !

