name:
Cauliflower Meatballs
ingredients:
Cauliflower: 1.4lbs(650 g)
Potatoes: 5.3oz(150 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Thyme: 4sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 1.3cups(130 g)
Eggs: 2- medium-sized
Peanut seed oil: 3cups(700 g)
Sour cream: 1cup(250 g)
Chives: 5fili

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 55 min
Makes: 35 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
During the autumn and winter seasons, what cannot be missing from our tables is cauliflower, one of the most common vegetables of this period, which resembles the shape of a flower. Unmistakable thanks to its white color and the various florets that compose it, cauliflower is very versatile and lends itself to many recipes... excellent with pasta, gratin and perfect if battered and fried! Today we offer you delicious cauliflower meatballs, tasty golden nuggets on the outside and soft on the inside, with a heart of white cauliflower, potatoes, and Grana Padano. Even though this vegetable emits a decidedly strong smell when cooked (and therefore not always appreciated by everyone) compared to its cousins "cabbage" and "broccoli", cauliflower has a more delicate flavor that is well suited for these delicious meatballs. Also, make cauliflower meatballs yourself, enjoy their fragrance and taste... we bet you'll also make them in the turmeric version! They'll be even better if you make them in company!
To prepare the cauliflower meatballs, start with the potato: rinse it and then boil it for about 30-40 minutes depending on its size (you can shorten the time using a pressure cooker). Meanwhile, proceed with cleaning the cauliflower: remove the outer leaves , the stem part , and detach the florets with your hands.
Then further separate them with your hands . Place a pot full of water on the stove and when it starts to boil, add the cauliflower and boil it for about ten minutes .
After 10 minutes, drain the cauliflower well and let it cool slightly . At this point, transfer it to the container of a food processor with blades and blend until it becomes a creamy consistency . Then transfer it to a large bowl.
When the potato is also cooked, drain it and mash it directly into the bowl with the cauliflower cream (if you use a potato masher, there will be no need to peel it) . Add the thyme leaves , the slightly beaten egg , and mix everything together.
Then add the grated Grana Padano , salt, and pepper , and mix to uniform the mixture .
At this point, take about 1 oz of the mixture and form your cauliflower meatballs ; place them on a tray lined with parchment paper . You will get about 35. Now coat the meatballs by dipping them first in the egg
and then in the breadcrumbs , placing them on another tray . Heat the peanut oil in a deep pan until it reaches a temperature of 340°F (measured with a kitchen thermometer) and start frying a few meatballs at a time ,
until they are well golden; it will take a few minutes. Once cooked, drain them from the oil using a slotted spoon and transfer them to a plate lined with paper towels . Continue frying the other meatballs. Then prepare the accompanying sauce: finely chop the chives
and add them to the sour cream in a bowl, along with a pinch of black pepper . Mix everything and serve your sour cream along with the freshly fried cauliflower meatballs !
Once fried, it is recommended to consume the cauliflower meatballs immediately. If you prefer, you can form the meatballs and store them in the refrigerator for 1 day without cooking them or freeze them.
It is recommended not to prolong the cooking times of the potato and cauliflower florets to prevent the mixture from becoming too liquid and having to add breadcrumbs to make it more compact. Scent and color your cauliflower meatballs by adding a pinch of paprika!

