name:
Radicchio and Gorgonzola Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Radicchio: 7oz(200 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 4.2oz(120 g)- sweet
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Red onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Brown sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Water: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Hazelnuts: (60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note plus the time to prepare the vegetable broth

instructions:
In autumn, trees transform and leaves abandon their green color, turning from yellow to red before falling and resting on the ground. We were inspired by the intense colors of this season to create a typically autumnal dish: radicchio and gorgonzola risotto. Among the fundamental ingredients, you'll find radicchio with its ruby color, typically golden toasted hazelnuts, and caramelized red onions with their purplish hue. Besides providing color, all these ingredients are essential for the taste and texture of the dish... bite after bite, you will perceive a slightly bitter flavor softened by the sweetness of the onions (which you can find in the Onion and Gorgonzola Risotto ) and the crunchiness of the nuts. Discover the secret of this creamy risotto, without added butter but made creamy with a type of cheese always paired with radicchio: the mild gorgonzola, with its soft texture that makes everything even more deliciously creamy! And if you love this combination, don't miss the chance to make delicious Radicchio and Gorgonzola Supplì !
If you love cheeses with a strong flavor, also try this radicchio and taleggio risotto .
Discover more delicious Risotto recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the radicchio and gorgonzola risotto, start by making the vegetable broth . Then move on to the caramelized onions; peel and cut them first in half and then into slices . Pour the oil into a saucepan, add the onions , and the water
and the brown sugar . Let them cook for about ten minutes until they are well caramelized .
In the meantime, toast the hazelnuts: transfer them to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake in a convection oven at 340°F for about ten minutes until they are nicely golden . Then set aside both the onions and the hazelnuts and proceed to toast the rice. Pour it into a hot saucepan ,
stir occasionally, and when the grains are hot and have changed color, cover everything by adding some hot broth . Season with salt and continue cooking, stirring and adding more broth as needed. Meanwhile, cut the radicchio in half ,
remove the bottom part of the stem , cut it again in half , and then into slices , to obtain rather thick strips.
When the rice is halfway through cooking, add the radicchio and stir . Continue cooking, adding broth as needed. Coarsely chop the hazelnuts and set them aside .
As soon as the risotto is ready , turn off the heat and add the gorgonzola with the help of a spoon . Add one last ladleful of broth and stir to melt the cheese.
Add the black pepper and adjust the salt if necessary. Plate your radicchio and gorgonzola risotto, placing some caramelized onions in the center and a sprinkle of hazelnuts . Serve while still hot!
It is recommended to consume the risotto immediately. Alternatively, it can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
The combination of cooked radicchio with other sweet ingredients like caramelized onions, dried or fresh fruits such as apples, not only creates a pleasant contrast but also serves to soften the bitterness of the radicchio. But if you don't like the taste of caramelized red onions, you can garnish the dish with julienned raw radicchio.

