name:
Pears with wine and chocolate
ingredients:
Bartlett pears: 1.8lbs(800 g)- not ripe
Red wine: 2.1cups(500 g)- novello
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(165 g)
Star anise: 2
Vanilla bean: 1
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Black pepper: 10
Fresh liquid cream: 0.6cup(150 g)
Dark chocolate 85%: 3.5oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pears and chocolate: a perfect combination, experimented with many times in kitchens around the world! A soft cake or a plumcake are perfect for a snack or breakfast, while a Chocolate and Pear Cheesecake is divine to serve as a dessert. But if after dinner you're undecided about whether to treat yourself to a dessert or have some fruit, we propose a delicious compromise: pears with wine and chocolate, an even richer variant of the typical pears in red wine ! To be enjoyed with a spoon, they are fresh and delicious... Williams pears are certainly the most suitable variety, as they are ideal for syruping and will remain firm and juicy even after cooking! For the wine, we recommend choosing a young wine that will enhance the taste of the pears with its strong fruity and berry notes without overwhelming their flavor. If you prefer to omit the wine, try cooked pears or Pears Belle Helene , an elegant French dessert that inspired this recipe!
To prepare the pears with wine and chocolate sauce, start with the pears. After washing the pears, core them using an apple corer, being careful not to pierce the outer part or the part with the stem (1-2). Peel them, leaving only the part at the top that forms a crown around the stem .
Cut the vanilla pod in half and move to the stove. Place a tall, narrow pot on the stove, and pour in the wine , the water ,
the sugar , the vanilla pod , and the star anise .
Finally, add the cinnamon and black pepper . Turn on the stove and bring everything to a boil, stirring occasionally . Submerge the pears , keeping them close together so they stand upright and color evenly.
Turn down the heat a bit, cover with the lid , and cook for about 20 minutes: at the end of cooking, touch them with your fingers without burning yourself; they should feel soft but not mushy. Then carefully drain them and let the sauce reduce until it becomes like a syrup. Be careful not to burn the sauce .
Strain the reduction and set it aside to cool at room temperature; also set the pears aside. Meanwhile, prepare the chocolate sauce. Chop the chocolate and put it in a bowl. In a saucepan, heat the cream until it almost boils. Then pour the hot cream into the bowl with the chocolate
and mix well with a spatula until you get a smooth ganache . Once the sauce is ready, proceed with plating. On a serving plate, brush a bit of the red wine reduction ,
then glaze a pear with the chocolate, placing a bowl underneath to catch any excess , and place it on the plate . Repeat with all the others, and your pears with wine and chocolate sauce are ready to be enjoyed !
We recommend consuming the pears immediately. Alternatively, you can store the cooked pears in a bowl in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap. The reduction can be stored in the same way. Freezing is not recommended.
Accompany the pears with red wine and chocolate with a scoop of ice cream and add a crunchy note with some pan-toasted almonds.

