name:
Gorgonzola and Radicchio Crepes
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Eggs: 2
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Radicchio: 1.3lbs(600 g)- Treviso
Gorgonzola cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Whole milk: 0.3cup(70 ml)
Butter: 5.6tbsp(80 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Gorgonzola and radicchio crepes are a tasty and hearty first course with a delicious radicchio cream filling. Gorgonzola and radicchio crepes are simple yet refined. The intense aroma of gorgonzola blends with the aromatic radicchio, and the combination of these two ingredients creates a rich and intense cream. Gorgonzola and radicchio crepes can also be prepared with other ingredients, offering a wide range of choices... try also those Savory crepes with chanterelles and bacon ! Today, we are making a version of gorgonzola and radicchio crepes with Treviso radicchio, gorgonzola, milk, butter, grated Grana Padano, salt, and pepper.
Come discover other appetizing crepe recipes:
To prepare gorgonzola and radicchio crepes, start by making the crepes batter. Sift the flour into a bowl, add a pinch of salt, the milk , and the melted butter, stirring vigorously with a whisk to avoid lumps. Add the two previously beaten eggs , continuing to mix, and let the batter rest in the fridge for an hour. After the resting time, cook the crepes in a non-stick crepe pan (for detailed instructions, click here).
Then proceed with preparing the filling by cutting the Treviso radicchio into strips after thoroughly washing it. Melt 2.82 tablespoons of butter in a pan, add the radicchio , season with salt and pepper, and let it cook for about ten minutes with a lid. Meanwhile, in a saucepan, add the gorgonzola and the milk , stirring over low heat until you obtain a cream.
Mix the radicchio with the gorgonzola cream and add 1.06 ounces of grated Grana Padano , continuing to stir. Spread the gorgonzola and radicchio filling over the crepes .
Fold the crepes in half and then into quarters , arranging them in a baking dish . Sprinkle them with the remaining Grana Padano and with 2.82 tablespoons of melted butter, before baking them for 10 minutes at 350°F with grill mode. Serve the gorgonzola and radicchio crepes hot.

