name:
Apple and Speck Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Golden delicious apples: 2
Speck: 4.2oz(120 g)
Shallot: 1
Vegetable broth: to taste
Dry white wine: 0.4cup(100 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Lemons: ½
Rosemary: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
In the mountains, everything tastes better! Think of Alto Adige, where you can find high-quality products like Speck. Certainly, much of the flavor comes from the pure air and the artisanal processes that give this typical product its unmistakable taste! We chose to use it to create a very special first course: apple and Speck risotto! A very delicate preparation, an unusual combination, where the sweetness of the apples is enhanced by the strong flavor of the slightly smoked and air-cured Speck, a well-balanced contrast that we have already appreciated in the pumpkin version . The apple and Speck risotto, with its creaminess, is a first course that will surely be a success even for the most demanding palates.
To prepare the apple and Speck risotto, first prepare the vegetable broth and keep it warm. Then cut some slices of Speck about an inch thick, remove the rind , and cut against the grain first into sticks and finally into cubes .
Next, move on to the apples, cut them into quarters first, then peel them and cut into cubes the same size as the Speck . To prevent them from browning, immerse them in acidulated water as you go .
Then prepare the sauté. Finely chop the shallot and place it in a saucepan where you have already melted half of the butter , the other half will be used to finish the risotto later. Let the shallot soften slightly, stirring often, it will take about 5 minutes (you can add a ladle of hot broth). Then add the rice .
Toast it for a few minutes, always stirring, then deglaze with the white wine . Wait until the alcohol has completely evaporated and start adding the hot broth , continuing to do so only as needed. In another very hot pan, pour a drizzle of oil .
Then add both the Speck and the apples and toss them over high heat and brown them. When there are about 3 minutes left for the risotto to cook, add the apples and Speck , and pepper to taste.
As soon as the rice is cooked, turn off the heat and add the remaining butter and the Parmesan, sprinkling it over the entire surface . Cover with a lid , wait 1 minute
and stir the risotto to a creamy consistency, mix gently and shake the pan to complete the process (19-20). Your apple and Speck risotto is ready, garnish with a few rosemary needles and serve .
The apple and Speck risotto can be stored for 1 day in the refrigerator. Freezing is not recommended.
If you have leftover risotto, transfer it to a baking dish, cover with some cheese of your choice, and bake for a few minutes!

