name:
Baked potatoes with radicchio and taleggio
ingredients:
Yellow potatoes: 4- for baking and steaming (250 g each)
Radicchio: 7oz(200 g)
Taleggio cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
The baked potatoes with radicchio and taleggio are delicious baked potatoes cooked in foil and stuffed with a creamy vegetable-based filling. A delightful idea to serve as a rich side dish to accompany a meat dish, or as an appetizing vegetarian main course. Easy to prepare and impressive in appearance, the baked potatoes with radicchio and taleggio are distinguished by their rustic look but hide a soft and flavorful heart that will win you over at the first bite!
Discover these variants of stuffed baked potatoes as well:

To prepare the baked potatoes with radicchio and taleggio, first wash and wrap each potato individually in aluminum foil , then place them on a baking sheet and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 90 minutes; the cooking time varies depending on the size of the potatoes. After this time, open the aluminum foil and check the cooking by pricking the potatoes with a toothpick. Once cooked, transfer the potatoes to a cutting board and set aside the aluminum foil.
Cut the potatoes in half, without peeling them , then gently scoop out the insides with a teaspoon, being careful not to break them. Roughly chop the potato pulp . Clean and finely chop the radicchio .
Heat a drizzle of oil in a skillet, then add the radicchio and let it wilt over medium-low heat for a few minutes, seasoning with salt and pepper. Add the potato pulp and sauté everything for another couple of minutes.
At this point, place the potato shells back on the baking sheet, setting them on top of the reserved aluminum foil , then fill them with the radicchio filling and top with pieces of taleggio .
Add a grind of pepper and bake in grill mode at 464°F (or at maximum power) for about 5 minutes. When the cheese has melted , remove from the oven and serve your baked potatoes with radicchio and taleggio immediately !
It is recommended to consume the baked potatoes with radicchio and taleggio immediately or to store them for up to one day in the refrigerator in an airtight container.
If you prefer, you can replace the taleggio with another melty cheese such as provolone or smoked scamorza!

