name:
Carrot and Blueberry Muffins
ingredients:
Almond flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Vegetable oil: 6.1tbsp(90 g)
Eggs: 5.8oz(165 g)- (3 medium)
Vanilla bean: 1
Blueberries: ½cup(90 g)
Carrots: 1cup(240 g)
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Blueberries: ¼cup(35 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
From muffins we've seen so many, and we're sure each of you has your favorite flavor and your personal weekly stash for a delicious breakfast! From those yogurt muffins to gluten-free ones, today we want to offer you another muffin recipe to add to your recipe book: carrot and blueberry muffins! You'll discover a softness and goodness that will pleasantly surprise you! Perfect with a fresh juice, as an accompaniment to a good coffee or an aromatic tea, carrot and blueberry muffins are always fantastic! You can also conveniently bring them to the office for a mid-morning break to offer your colleagues a sweet and genuine pause! And let's not forget the kids: the delicate taste of carrots and their sweetness give this little cake a special softness and a vibrant color that will win them over! While the small blue drops, the blueberries, will enrich and gently decorate your sweets! So what are you waiting for? Tie on your aprons and prepare breakfast for the whole family!
To make the carrot and blueberry muffins, start by peeling the carrots , then grate them with a large-holed grater and transfer them to a sieve, pressing them with a spoon from time to time to remove the excess liquid.
In the meantime, prepare the batter: pour the eggs into the bowl of a stand mixer , add the sugar , and turn on the machine (alternatively, use an electric mixer). Score a vanilla bean and, using a sharp knife, scrape out the seeds .
Transfer the seeds into the semi-whipped eggs . Finish whipping the eggs and, in the meantime, sift the flour and baking powder into another bowl.
Add the almond flour to the sifted flour and mix everything thoroughly . When the eggs have become light and frothy, gradually incorporate the dry ingredients , keeping the mixer running until you get a smooth and consistent batter. If using an electric mixer, you can continue to work the mixture with the beaters while gradually adding the flour.
At this point, still with the beaters running, gradually add the vegetable oil in a thin stream . Once you have a smooth and creamy batter , add the drained carrots .
and incorporate them into the mixture . Also add the 90 grams of blueberries , gently mix, and transfer the mixture to a disposable piping bag: make the tip by cutting the end and fill the muffin cups placed in a 12-cup muffin tray ; it is important not to exceed 3/4 of each cup, we used about 80 grams of batter per cup.
Once the batter is finished, place 3 blueberries on each muffin (you will need about 35 grams of blueberries in total) and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 25 minutes (you can try baking with a convection oven: as a general indication, usually lower the temperature by 20°F and reduce the baking time by 10 minutes, but you can adjust by trying to bake one to find the right balance for the others). Once out of the oven , let your carrot and blueberry muffins cool slightly before serving!
Store your carrot and blueberry muffins for up to 3 days under a glass dome!
They can be frozen after baking and cooling if you used fresh, not previously frozen ingredients.

Instead of vanilla, you can flavor the batter with orange or lemon zest!
The origins of muffins are quite uncertain, probably attributed to the Old French mouflet meaning soft, or from the German muffen meaning little cake. Muffins have always been a humble dessert, traditionally made by servants with leftover bread. Over time, they have transformed into the soft and sweet delicacy, very versatile, that we all know and love!

