name:
Coda alla Vaccinara
ingredients:
Veal tail: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (2 pieces)
Peeled tomatoes: 6.6lbs(2.5 kg)
Fat of prosciutto crudo: 2.5oz(70 g)
Onions: 2
Garlic: 2cloves
Cloves: to taste
White wine: 1cup(250 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Ground black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Water: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Celery: 14.1oz(400 g)- white
Pine nuts: ¼cup(50 g)
Raisins: ¼cup(50 g)
Dark chocolate: 1oz(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 3 h 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Coda alla vaccinara is a delicious main course from Roman cuisine. Its origin can be traced back to the taverns of the old Roman district where butchers (Vaccinari) lived. They were once paid for their services with the 'fifth quarter,' which included the less prized parts of the animals such as tripe, oxtail, and other offal. These butchers, in turn, sold the scraps to the common people who couldn't afford the more noble cuts. Dishes like coda alla vaccinara, Roman tripe , and the typical Rigatoni with pajata were born out of this popular cuisine, with the aim of making the most of even the poorest ingredients, turning necessity into virtue. These recipes are still enjoyed today, thanks to their simple goodness that has made them timeless on our tables. The recipe here was prepared for us by Claudio and Fabrizio Gargioli of Armando al Pantheon , a historic restaurant in the heart of Rome that has helped to pass down these traditional dishes. Coda alla vaccinara is a succulent and rustic dish: proof that the cuisine of the past remains the best!
To prepare coda alla vaccinara, cut the oxtail at the joints with a suitable knife to obtain pieces about 2-3 inches long . In a pan, sauté the ham fat with a drizzle of oil . Add the oxtail .
Salt and season with garlic and chopped onion .
Add the cloves . Pour in the wine and, once evaporated, cook for 10 minutes over high heat with the lid on. Add the canned tomatoes , still on high heat.
Add water to cover, if necessary , and mix well. Then cook for 2-3 hours over high heat with the lid on. Check from time to time and stir; if the sauce reduces too much, add more water. Meanwhile, prepare the celery sauce: soak the raisins in cold water .
Cut off the green leaves of the celery , chop it into pieces , and then use a paring knife to remove the outer strands .
Boil the celery in boiling water for 10-15 minutes , just long enough to soften it . Blend the celery with a little cooking water using an immersion blender .
Season with grated dark chocolate . Then add the drained raisins and pine nuts .
Add a ladle of cooking sauce and mix . Pour the sauce into the pan and finish cooking .
The coda alla vaccinara will be ready when the meat is tender but not falling apart . Adjust the salt and serve with toasted breadcrumbs in a pan .
Coda alla vaccinara can be stored in the fridge for 2-3 days. You can freeze it after cooking.
It would be even more flavorful if tasted 1 or 2 days later, allowing the flavors to blend better and the meat to become even more tender!
Coda alla vaccinara is traditionally prepared with ox or bullock tail; alternatively, you can use veal tail, which is more tender and leaner.
Chocolate, pine nuts, and cloves have been added to the recipe to enrich this dish intended for the common people.
History, tradition, and family: these are the ingredients that have made Armando al Pantheon one of the pillars of Roman cuisine. The name reveals an exceptional location, in the heart of Rome, just steps away from one of the most significant symbols of the capital. The menu invariably features typical Roman dishes, alongside more innovative and experimental recipes, born out of the passion handed down through two generations of restaurateurs, now led by Claudio and Fabrizio Gargioli. Food and hospitality are the keywords that make Armando al Pantheon one of the most appreciated trattorias in Rome.

