name:
Fried Sicilian Cartocci
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.2oz(6 g)
Fine salt: 0.9tsp(5 g)
Lard: 1.8oz(50 g)
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: 14.1oz(400 g)- well drained
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 2.8oz(80 g)
Sugar: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 4 hours of resting for the filling and rising

instructions:
Fried Sicilian cartocci are a street food dessert that embodies the authentic culinary tradition of Sicily! Abundance and deliciousness in a wonderful fried dessert, indispensable in bars for breakfast, but which can also be prepared at home! A leavened dessert to prepare with a planetary mixer or by hand, we show you both ways! These cannoli are made with a Brioche bread type dough and, once risen, they are fried in hot oil to be super soft and fragrant! Just like for the Iris , one of the most classic and appreciated fillings is based on ricotta and chocolate chips, but you can also fill the Sicilian cartocci with a custard cream , classic or chocolate! Here are other Sicilian desserts not to be missed:
To prepare the fried Sicilian cartocci, start with the dough. In a bowl, pour the flour, sugar , and crumbled fresh yeast . Also pour in the milk .
Mix with a fork until the milk is absorbed, then add a pinch of salt and knead again. Now add the whole egg and knead again until it is absorbed .
Now move to a countertop and work the dough with your hands ; once it is smooth and homogeneous, add the lard little by little , continuing to knead to absorb it .
Continue in this way until the lard is used up; finally, fold the dough and form a ball . Transfer it to a bowl , cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for 3 hours.
In the meantime, sift the ricotta ; it must be well-drained and dry. Add the sugar and mix. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest for 4 hours in the refrigerator. Then add the chocolate chips .
Mix again and place back in the refrigerator. As soon as the dough has doubled in size , transfer it back to the countertop and, using a dough scraper, cut off about 2.65 oz .
Continue in this way until you obtain 12 equal pieces . Take one and shape it by rolling it on the countertop until you get a cylinder about 12 inches long .
Take some cannoli molds and, starting from one end, wrap the dough to form 4 turns . You can also make 3 turns if you prefer less tapered cartocci. Place the cartocci on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Space the cartocci well, cover with plastic wrap . Let rise for another hour. Pour the seed oil into a pot and heat it to 329°F. Dip the cartocci without burning yourself .
Fry a few pieces at a time . To brown them uniformly, use a spoon to pour hot oil over them. When they are well browned, drain them on kitchen paper . Then remove the steel cylinder, being careful not to burn yourself .
Roll it in sugar and proceed the same way for the others. Transfer the ricotta into a piping bag and fill your cartocci . Serve them immediately!
We recommend serving the cartocci immediately, warm and freshly filled. Alternatively, you can prepare the cartocci a little in advance and fill them at the last moment.
If you prefer fuller cartocci, you can make only 3 turns around the steel cylinder. For a baked version: bake the cartocci in a preheated static oven at 410°F for 25 minutes. If you don't like lard, you can use the same amount of butter, but it won't be the same.

