name:
Halloween Layer Cake
ingredients:
Egg whites: 1cup(260 g)
Nut flour: 2 ½cups(410 g)
Sugar: 3cups(180 g)
Flour: 0.3cup(45 g)
Orange peel: 1
Food coloring: - orange as needed
Egg whites: 1.1cups(260 g)
Sugar: 3.9cups(180 g)
Almond flour: 3 ½cups(400 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 5.3tbsp(40 g)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Egg yolks: ½cup(125 g)
Sugar: (150 g)
Flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Whole milk: 1.1cups(250 ml)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.1cups(250 ml)
Dark chocolate: 100
Flour: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Egg yolks: 4.4oz(125 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(125 g)
Cornstarch: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Dark chocolate: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Powdered sugar: (80 g)
Water: to taste- boiling
Marzipan: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Food coloring: to taste- green and orange
Beignets: 4- stuff 4
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 1 h 50 min
Serving: 12
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time

instructions:
The Halloween layer cake is very elaborate but will make a big impression on Halloween night! A themed cake that exquisitely combines the flavors of orange and chocolate. The layer cake is made up of nine dacquoise discs, a soft and fragrant mixture of whipped egg whites, sugar, and chopped nuts: five are flavored with orange zest and toasted hazelnut flour; the other four are made with unsweetened cocoa and almond flour. Holding the layers together are two types of pastry cream: one orange and one chocolate, alternating between the layers. Finally, the layer cake is covered with a velvety Ganache cream and decorated with cream puffs turned into cute Halloween pumpkins! Once sliced, the Halloween layer cake reveals a beautiful interplay of colors from the alternating layers: a magic of the spookiest night of the year that will leave everyone in awe! Check out our Halloween cake , a beautiful drip cake!
To prepare the Halloween layer cake, start with making the creams and ganache, which will need to rest in the refrigerator. Begin with the chocolate pastry cream (find more instructions here, chocolate pastry cream ): heat the milk and cream in a saucepan and meanwhile beat the egg yolks with the sugar , flour, and cornstarch. Mix and pour the mixture into the saucepan with the milk. Cook on low heat, stirring continuously with a whisk to thicken .
Once the cream is ready, remove it from the heat and add the dark chocolate , stirring to blend it into the cream . Transfer the chocolate pastry cream to a bowl and store it in the refrigerator covered with a sheet of cling film .
Next, make the orange pastry cream: cut a vanilla pod in half and scrape out the seeds with the tip of a knife ; add the seeds and pod to a saucepan with the milk and heat over low heat. Meanwhile, beat the yolks with the sugar and add the sifted flour .
Mix well with a whisk and add the egg and sugar mixture to the milk along with the grated zest of a well-washed, untreated orange . Stir constantly over low heat with a whisk to thicken . Store the orange pastry cream in the refrigerator with a sheet of cling film.
Now prepare the chocolate ganache to cover the cake. In a saucepan, heat 500 ml (2 cups) of cream, and as soon as it reaches boiling point, turn off the heat and add 500 g (18 oz) of dark chocolate . Stir well with a whisk: the chocolate should melt completely and blend with the cream . Cool the mixture in the refrigerator, stirring occasionally (every 20 minutes) until it reaches a mousse-like consistency . If you want to cool it quickly, simply immerse the pot in an ice water bath.
Now let's make the orange dacquoise for the orange layers. Sift the hazelnut flour with the flour (16-17) and whip the egg whites in a stand mixer or with an electric beater, adding the sugar one tablespoon at a time .
When the egg whites are well whipped, add enough orange coloring to give it an orange hue and give it another beat with the mixer. Add the grated orange zest and gradually the previously mixed powders . Mix everything with a spatula from bottom to top to avoid deflating the mixture,
which should be frothy and well combined . On a sheet of parchment paper, draw a 22 cm (8.5-inch) circle with a pencil (you can use a cake pan of that size as a model) and repeat the operation on four other sheets. Transfer the obtained mixture to a piping bag with a smooth 7 mm (0.3-inch) diameter nozzle and draw a spiral starting from the center of the circle to the outline .
You need to make five spirals this way because there are five orange layers, each on a different sheet of parchment paper . Before baking the dacquoise, sprinkle it with powdered sugar so it stays moist during baking . Bake one layer at a time in a preheated static oven at 428°F (220°C) for about 8 minutes. Once baked, cover the dacquoise with cling film to retain moisture and prevent it from drying out and place it on a tray, keeping the parchment paper underneath and the cling film on top. Proceed to bake all the layers, one at a time, and as you bake them, stack them on top of each other, always keeping the parchment paper underneath and the cling film on top.
Now prepare the chocolate dacquoise. Mix the almond flour and unsweetened cocoa and whip the egg whites with the sugar. Once whipped, add the powders to the egg whites and mix with a spatula from bottom to top,
to obtain a well-mixed and frothy mixture . Transfer the mixture to a piping bag and this time make 4 spirals with a 22 cm (8.5-inch) diameter, using a circle drawn directly on the sheet as a model . Bake these as well, after sprinkling them with powdered sugar in a static oven one at a time at 428°F (220°C) for 8 minutes. Proceed exactly as above for storing the layers .
Now we are ready to assemble the cake: start with an orange dacquoise layer and cover it with orange cream ; place a chocolate dacquoise layer on top and cover it with chocolate pastry cream . Continue this way until all the layers are used up: the last one should be orange . Remember to set aside a few tablespoons of cream to fill the cream puffs for decoration.
Now cover the cake with the ganache cream, using a spatula : you can leave it smooth or create ripples as in the photo . For the decoration, fill the cream puffs with the remaining cream and
make a water glaze by dissolving the powdered sugar in a little boiling water (see here for more details, Water Glaze ). Add a pinch of orange coloring , cover the cream puffs entirely, letting them drain on a rack and place them in the center of the cake . Color the marzipan green and
make small leaves, which will be inserted between the pumpkins . To make the cream puff pumpkins even more realistic, model some tendrils and decorate the cake! Here is the Halloween layer cake : are you ready to slice it?
The layer cake can be stored in the refrigerator for 4-5 days.
To speed up the process, you can bake two dacquoise layers at the same time in a convection oven at 392°F (200°C).

