name:
Pumpkin and chocolate plum cake
ingredients:
Delica pumpkin: 10.6oz(300 g)- to clean
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Potato starch: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Nut flour: ¼cup(35 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Eggs: 3
Sunflower seed oil: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Greek yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 1.8oz(50 g)
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
With the pumpkin and chocolate plum cake recipe, we want to make your autumn breakfasts super delicious. The air is starting to get crisper, and we return to good habits by making homemade baked desserts, first and foremost plum cakes, excellent for breakfast with a cup of coffee, but also perfect for a snack, like the timeless yogurt plum cake . The pumpkin season has begun, and we wanted to use it to enrich the batter, not only to make it softer but also to give it its typical sweet taste, as we have already done with the Pumpkin, Yogurt and Salted Caramel Loaf Cake , to delight more refined palates, and with the Pumpkin Brioche Bread , for those who prefer more rustic desserts. Try our plum cake and also experiment with other recipes that feature this tasty combination, such as the delicious pumpkin and chocolate cake .
To prepare the pumpkin and chocolate plum cake, clean the pumpkin by removing the seeds and skin and cut it into pieces, obtaining about 7 oz of pulp . Prepare a steamer with boiling water and rosemary .
Place the pumpkin , cover and let it cook for 10 minutes or until it is soft. Test the consistency by piercing the pumpkin with a fork .
Once ready, mash the pumpkin with a fork and set it aside. Meanwhile, beat the eggs with vanilla and sugar using an electric mixer.
When the mixture is frothy, add the yogurt , pumpkin pulp , and vegetable oil .
Turn off the mixer and sift in flour, cornstarch, and baking powder . Add the hazelnut flour and salt , and mix again with the mixer to obtain a homogeneous batter.
Finish by adding chocolate chips, keeping some aside for the surface . Pour the batter into a buttered and floured pan of 8.5 x 3.35 x 2.75 inches , and run the tip of a knife – dipped in oil – along the surface to divide it lengthwise.
Add the reserved chocolate chips and bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 55/60 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool , then remove from the pan and serve the pumpkin and chocolate plum cake .
The pumpkin and chocolate plum cake can be stored covered in a cool place for about 3 days. You can freeze it after baking.
Scoring the surface allows the batter to take on its classic shape. You can also use butter to grease the blade you'll immerse in the batter. If you like the taste of rosemary, add a little chopped rosemary to the batter to make it more aromatic.

