name:
Savory Radicchio Tart
ingredients:
Radicchio: 1.1lbs(500 g)- tardivo
Puff pastry: 8oz(230 g)
Fresh scallion: 5.6oz(160 g)
Eggs: 2
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(125 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Asiago cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Radicchio, with its unmistakable taste and crunchiness, has inspired many of our dishes. It is indeed excellent to enjoy pure in Gratinated radicchio, hazelnuts, and scamorza salad , to wrap and bake , to sauté in a pan with Chicken strips with radicchio , or to season a pasta or a risotto . The versatility of this vegetable knows no bounds, and here we want to offer you another idea to savor it best: the savory radicchio tart. Like all savory tarts worth their salt, it will not lack a soft filling with eggs and cream, and the touch of cubed Asiago cheese will complete the dish, making it even more appetizing. Try it as an appetizer or as a vegetarian main course. And if you love experimenting with new ideas in the kitchen, also try our soft savory tart , made with the clever mold!
To make the savory radicchio tart, first wash and trim the spring onion, then slice it into rounds . Do the same with the radicchio , making sure to set aside about ten whole leaves for final decoration. Now cut the Asiago cheese into cubes .
Heat a drizzle of olive oil in a pan and add the spring onion . Sauté for 5 minutes. Add the chopped radicchio , season with salt and pepper , and sauté for 3-4 minutes; it should remain crunchy.
Transfer the vegetables to a bowl , incorporate the liquid cream and whole eggs , mix, and finally season with the grated cheese .
Stir again to obtain a homogeneous mixture . Now take a 9.5-inch diameter fluted edge tart pan and place the pastry sheet on it . Gently press the bottom and edges with your fingers to adhere the pastry well .
Now fill the savory tart with the filling , take the reserved radicchio leaves , and place them on the surface to create a starburst pattern .
Place the cheese cubes between the leaves (16-17). Bake the savory radicchio tart in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 30 minutes, then switch to the grill for about 3 minutes, until golden. Once cooked, remove the tart from the oven and let it cool slightly before serving.
Store the savory radicchio tart in the refrigerator and consume it within 3 days. You can freeze the tart after baking.
If you love strong flavors, you can replace the Asiago with Gorgonzola, or conversely, if you prefer milder flavors, you can also use Brie or a common lightly aged dairy cheese.

