name:
Cauliflower Soup
ingredients:
Cauliflower: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (to be cleaned)
Potatoes: 12.4oz(350 g)
Leeks: 8.8oz(250 g)
Water: 2cups(500 g)
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If pan-fried cauliflower and Baked Cauliflower were not very successful with your family, here's a cauliflower recipe that will change everyone's mind: cauliflower soup! A creamy and light first course characterized by a delicate flavor, that even those who usually don't appreciate this type of vegetable will like. Enriched with potatoes and leeks, it is very simple and practical to prepare because you only need one pot. Perfect for a vegetarian or lactose-free menu, the cauliflower soup is also a great way to get the little ones to eat vegetables... serve it with crunchy croutons and put them to the test!
Discover also these velvety soup recipes:

To make the cauliflower soup, first clean the leek: remove the base and green leaves , then remove the outer layer and cut it into rings . Rinse the leek under running water .
Move on to the cauliflower: remove the stem and separate the florets ; you will need about 27.5 oz of florets. Finally, peel the potatoes and cut them into cubes .
In a large pot, heat a dash of oil, then add the potatoes and the leek . Let them brown for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally, then add the cauliflower .
Pour in the water and cook with the lid on for about 20 minutes or until the cauliflower and potatoes are soft ; check the consistency by piercing them with a fork. After the cooking time, salt and pepper .
Turn off the heat and blend with an immersion blender to obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream . Serve your cauliflower soup hot, garnished with a drizzle of oil, some thyme leaves, and a grind of pepper !
The cauliflower soup can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, in an airtight container.
It can be frozen. Once thawed, heat it in a saucepan, stirring continuously to return it to a creamy consistency.
You can garnish the cauliflower soup with a pinch of curry or paprika as an alternative to thyme!

