name:
Baked sweet potatoes
ingredients:
Sweet potatoes (or yams): 1.8lbs(800 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Garlic: 1clove
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Sweet potatoes, also known as yams, are a versatile ingredient in the kitchen, much like the regular potatoes we use every day! Baked sweet potatoes are a great alternative to classic roasted potatoes , making an ideal side dish for meat, fish, or vegetable main courses. To make them even more delicious, we were inspired by the preparation method of Hasselback potatoes , which are sliced accordion-style and flavored with spices and herbs. For a richer version, however, you might even consider stuffing them with cheddar and bacon ! With their slightly sweet taste reminiscent of pumpkin, baked sweet potatoes pair perfectly with typical American dishes, such as BBQ glazed ribs , and are perfect for a Thanksgiving menu.
Also, don't miss these sweet potato recipes:

To prepare baked sweet potatoes, first finely chop the rosemary and garlic . Place them in a small bowl .
Season with sweet paprika , salt, and pepper . Mix to combine the flavors. Preheat the oven to 400°F with the fan setting. Wash the potatoes well under running water to remove any dirt .
Slice the potatoes into 1/8-1/4 inch thick rounds without cutting all the way through . To make it easier, you can stick a skewer lengthwise through the base of the potato at 1/2 inch depth. Arrange them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Now, drizzle the potatoes with oil .
Finally, evenly distribute the seasoning mix over the potatoes . Bake in the fan oven for 50-55 minutes. After the cooking time, serve your baked sweet potatoes .
It's best to consume baked sweet potatoes right away. We do not recommend freezing them.
Choose potatoes that are not too old, as they may be too hard and difficult to slice. If they are still hard, you can parboil them for about 5-10 minutes, depending on their size. Select potatoes of the same size to ensure even cooking.
For extra flavor, you can add grated cheese on top.

