name:
Pasta with Cauliflower and Guanciale
ingredients:
Mezze Maniche Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Jowls: 4.4oz(120 g)
Cauliflower: 12.3oz(350 g)
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you believe there aren't any tasty dishes with cauliflower, we'll quickly change your mind with our pasta with cauliflower and guanciale recipe. Crispy and golden strips of guanciale with their savory and enticing taste tone down the strong flavor of cauliflower florets, achieving a skillful balance between rustic ingredients that evoke farm flavors. Pasta with cauliflower and guanciale can be considered a variant of the famous gricia and is perfect for those who want to bring an easy and quick dish to the table that highlights winter vegetables without forgetting taste. But we are no strangers to these alluring combinations that, with clever tweaks, make even the least loved ingredients appetizing: from the extravagant and unusual Fake cauliflower pizza to the velvety and creamy cauliflower puree, we have something for every taste!
Come and discover all our other cauliflower recipes:
To make pasta with cauliflower and guanciale, slice the guanciale then cut each slice into strips and set them aside. Place a pot full of salted water on the stove and bring it to a boil. In the meantime, take care of the cauliflower: remove the leaves
and cut off the individual florets by cutting into the base of the stem , then halve the florets , and boil them in the boiling water for 5 minutes .
Meanwhile, sauté the guanciale strips in a pan over medium heat for 5 minutes , they should be just crispy, there’s no need to add oil. At this point, the cauliflower florets will be ready, so scoop them out with a slotted spoon directly into the pan with the guanciale and you can cook the pasta in the same water for 12 minutes or the time indicated on the package.
Continue cooking the cauliflower with the guanciale for 3 minutes and then your sauce will be ready . When the pasta is cooked, drain it directly into the pan with the sauce , season with fresh thyme leaves ,
adjust with salt and pepper and mix with a spoon. Your pasta with cauliflower and guanciale is ready , enjoy it hot !
You can store pasta with cauliflower and guanciale for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
Guanciale can be replaced with sweet pancetta or diced cooked ham if you prefer a milder taste. If you can't resist topping your pasta with grated cheese, we recommend choosing one that is not too aged to best balance the dish's saltiness.

