name:
Chocolate Cheesecake
ingredients:
Dry chocolate cookies: 8.8oz(250 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(450 g)
Cream cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Dark chocolate 55%: 7oz(200 g)
Sugar: 0.5lb(120 g)
Eggs: 4oz(110 g)- (about 2 medium)
Cornstarch: 6tbsp(50 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(20 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Dark chocolate: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + the time to solidify the base (at least 1 h in the fridge / 30 min. in the freezer) and the cheesecake (at least 2 h in the fridge)

instructions:
The Cheesecake is the most famous cheese dessert in the world, presented in countless variations depending on the season and creativity: from the New York Cheesecake to the strawberry cheesecake , including the pumpkin version , ending with the evergreens to enjoy all year round like chocolate cheesecake! A dark version of the classic baked cheesecake, made with a cocoa cookie base and a delicious ricotta cream, garnished with a cascade of dark chocolate curls… what more could you ask for? A dollop of whipped cream to accompany it, for example! Sweets lovers around the world, this recipe is for you: with chocolate cheesecake, pleasure is guaranteed with every bite.
Discover also these chocolate cheesecake recipes:

To make the chocolate cheesecake, first prepare the cookie base: melt the butter in a saucepan and let it cool, meanwhile pour the chocolate cookies into a mixer and blend to reduce them to powder . Transfer the blended cookies to a bowl and add the melted and cooled butter .
Mix with a spoon until you obtain a homogeneous mixture . Pour the mixture into a greased and parchment-lined 9-inch springform pan, then compact it with the back of a spoon both on the bottom and the sides . Let the base set in the refrigerator for at least an hour (or in the freezer for at least 30 minutes) .
Meanwhile, prepare the cream: chop the dark chocolate with a knife and melt it in a double boiler or microwave, then let it cool. Meanwhile, pour the ricotta and cream cheese into a mixer.
Add the seeds of the vanilla bean and the sugar . In a separate bowl, sift the cornstarch with the cocoa .
Also add the powders and blend to combine everything. Add the eggs and blend again, then pour in the melted and cooled chocolate .
Blend again until you obtain a dense and homogeneous mixture . At this point, take the pan with the cookie base and pour the cream inside , then level the surface . Bake in a preheated static oven at 329°F for 60 minutes, placing a small pot of water in the oven to create the right humidity: this way it is less likely that cracks will form during cooking or setting. Once cooked, remove from the oven and let the cheesecake cool in the pan, then transfer it to the refrigerator for at least 2 hours.
Meanwhile, create the dark chocolate curls for decoration with the help of a potato peeler and keep them cool until ready to use. After the setting time, remove the pan and garnish with the chocolate curls: your chocolate cheesecake is ready to be served !
Chocolate cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator for 3 days.
If the ricotta is very watery, it is advisable to drain it before use to remove excess liquid.
Those who love a dark chocolate flavor can use 70% chocolate.
You can flavor the cream with tonka bean for a more exotic note!
For the base, it is preferable to use dry cookies: if using softer and fattier cookies, you will need to reduce the amount of butter.
You can replace the vanilla bean seeds with a teaspoon of vanilla extract.

