name:
Pasta with Radicchio and Gorgonzola
ingredients:
Sedanini Rigati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Radicchio: 10.6oz(300 g)- long purple
Gorgonzola cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)- sweet
Walnut kernels: ½cup(60 g)
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 22 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Among the most classic combinations, we find radicchio and gorgonzola, two ingredients that pair wonderfully due to their rich and bold flavors. Today we have chosen to offer them together to create pasta with radicchio and gorgonzola, a first course dedicated to the most daring palates who love the slightly bitter aftertaste of radicchio. By using either mild or spicy gorgonzola, you can customize this sauce, which suits any type of pasta. Just add a sprinkle of chopped walnuts to enhance the preparation, and your pasta with radicchio and gorgonzola will turn into a recipe suitable for any occasion!
Also, try these other delicious variations:
To prepare pasta with radicchio and gorgonzola, start by cutting off the hard part of the radicchio , then finely slice the rest and set aside . Coarsely chop the walnuts .
Place the walnuts in a non-stick pan and toast them briefly , then set aside. Cook the pasta in boiling salted water , keeping it two minutes underdone.
Meanwhile, put the gorgonzola in the same pan as the walnuts , pour a ladle of pasta cooking water and stir over low heat until completely melted .
Drain the pasta into the pan with the gorgonzola cream and finish cooking it for a couple of minutes, adding a little water if necessary . Finally, add the radicchio .
Finish with the walnuts , pepper, and thyme . Plate and serve the pasta with radicchio and gorgonzola hot .
It is recommended to serve the pasta with radicchio and gorgonzola freshly prepared. Alternatively, it can be stored for a maximum of one day in the refrigerator.
Freezing is not recommended.
For a completely vegan version, you can replace the gorgonzola with tofu cream!
For an even bolder flavor, add sausage!
You can flavor the dish with finely chopped chives instead of thyme.

