name:
Salad with apples and cabbage
ingredients:
Red Delicious apples: 10.6oz(300 g)
Beets: 7oz(200 g)- crude
Bak choi: 6oz(170 g)- (already cleaned)
Cavolo riccio (Kale): 4 ¼cups(120 g)- (already cleaned)
Bread: 3.5oz(100 g)
Almonds: 3.5oz(100 g)
Quartirolo Lombardo cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Orange juice: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Raspberry vinegar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 7 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
Salads are a great way to use seasonal ingredients and take advantage of all their qualities, both in summer and winter! Arugula and pears , fennel and oranges , white cabbage and mandarins , are just a few examples of how fruits and vegetables, skillfully combined with the addition of nuts, cheese, or legumes, can create joyful, wholesome, and nutritious dishes. Just like the salad with apples and cabbages, a burst of colors that will bring good vibes to your table! In this case, we combined red apples with almonds, kale, and Pak choi in wok , also known as Chinese cabbage characterized by crisp and fleshy leaves... a play of flavors and textures enriched by the sweetness of raw beet and the delicacy of quartirolo cheese. To complete everything, a fragrant orange dressing and the essential croutons, a mix so appetizing that you won't limit it to just a side dish: the salad with apples and cabbages will also turn out to be a great idea for a quick lunch!
To make the salad with apples and cabbages, first coarsely chop the almonds and toast them in a pan for a couple of minutes . Cut the bread into irregular cubes .
In another pan, heat a drizzle of oil, add the bread and season with pepper and thyme leaves . Toast the croutons until golden brown and set them aside.
Now take care of the rest of the ingredients: cut the apple into wedges without removing the peel , then halve the wedges and cut them into triangles about 1/8 inch thick . Cut the kale and pak choi into irregular strips .
Peel the beet and slice it with a mandoline to obtain 1/25 inch thick slices . Finally, cut the quartirolo cheese into cubes .
To prepare the vinaigrette, pour the raspberry vinegar and oil into a tall and narrow glass , add the orange juice and salt, and blend with an immersion blender to mix everything together .
At this point, you are ready to assemble your salad: in a large bowl, combine the beet, apple , kale , pak choi, and toasted almonds .
Add the croutons and cheese , then dress with the vinaigrette and mix well . Your salad with apples and cabbages is ready to be served!
It is recommended to consume the salad with apples and cabbages immediately.
As an alternative to raspberry vinegar, you can use apple cider vinegar.

