name:
Coffee Zeppolona
ingredients:
Water: ¾cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Butter: 2.8oz(80 g)
Eggs: 3
Fine salt: 1pinch
Sugar: 1pinch
Fresh liquid cream: 0.6cup(150 g)- cold
Whole milk: 0.3cup(100 g)
Coffee: 4tbsp(20 g)
Sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Cornstarch: 1tsp(8 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.6tsp(3 g)
Egg yolks: 1 ⅓tbsp(20 g)- (approximately 1 large)
Dark chocolate: 0.5oz(15 g)
Powdered coffee: to taste
Coffee beans: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + cooling times

instructions:
To make the coffee zeppolona, start with the custard. Prepare the coffee and set it aside. Soak the gelatin sheets in cold water, then pour the milk and the moka coffee into a saucepan and bring it almost to a boil. Meanwhile, whisk the egg yolk with the sugar in a bowl , then add the corn starch and mix again.
Add the hot coffee-milk mixture to the yolk mixture and mix well with the whisk, then pour everything back into the saucepan and put it back on the heat. Stir constantly with the whisk until the cream begins to thicken .
When it has thickened, turn off the heat and add the gelatin, after squeezing it well . Mix well to incorporate it; it should completely dissolve. Pour the cream into a bowl where you have placed the chopped chocolate , then stir with a spatula to melt it evenly . Cover the cream with cling film in contact and let it cool in the refrigerator.
In the meantime, prepare the choux pastry: pour the water into a thick-bottomed saucepan , then add the butter, a pinch of salt , and a pinch of sugar . Turn on the heat and bring to a boil.
When the butter has melted, add the flour all at once and stir quickly with a wooden spoon until the mixture detaches completely from the edges and the bottom has an opaque film . Transfer the dough into a stand mixer with a paddle attachment .
Turn on the mixer at medium speed and add the eggs, one at a time, ensuring each is fully absorbed before adding the next . You should obtain a smooth, thick, and homogeneous mixture . Transfer the dough into a piping bag with a 0.6-inch star tip .
At this point, line a baking sheet with parchment paper and draw a circle with a diameter of 7 inches with a pencil . Use the pencil line as a guide to make 2 circles of dough with the piping bag, starting from the outside, then add a third circle on top, in between the first two . Bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 45 minutes, then continue baking in a fan oven at the same temperature for another 15 minutes. After this time, check the cooking by slightly lifting the zeppolona from the baking sheet: if it feels light, it means it is cooked; otherwise, it means it is still moist inside. In that case, lower the temperature to 300°F and bake for another 5 minutes, still in fan mode. Once baked, remove the zeppolona from the oven and let it cool completely .
Meanwhile, take the custard from the refrigerator and soften it with a whisk . Pour the fresh liquid cream into a separate bowl and semi-whip it with electric beaters .
Incorporate the semi-whipped cream into the custard in 3 batches , gently mixing from bottom to top with a spatula : you have now obtained a coffee diplomat cream. Transfer into a piping bag with a fluted tip of 0.5 inches .
When the zeppolona has cooled, cut it in half horizontally , then place the bottom half on a serving plate and fill it with the diplomat cream , creating waves first along the outer edge and then inside .
Cover with the top half and garnish with sifted coffee powder and coffee beans . Your coffee zeppolona is ready to be served !
The coffee zeppolona can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days in an airtight container.
If you prefer, you can prepare the zeppolona in advance without filling it and store it at room temperature for 4 days, closed in an airtight container.
The custard can also be prepared in advance and stored in the refrigerator for 2 days; to prevent it from losing consistency, it is preferable to incorporate the whipped cream at the moment or at most a few hours before.
Instead of using a stand mixer with a paddle attachment, you can use a hand whisk.
If you find it difficult to handle the piping bag with the flat nozzle, you can replace it with a star nozzle and make a classic tufted decoration.
You can garnish the zeppolona with unsweetened cocoa powder instead of coffee powder!

