name:
Cookies with Dark Chocolate and Himalayan Pink Salt
ingredients:
Sugar: ½cup(120 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Dark chocolate 70%: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to chop)
Himalayan salt (pink): 1tsp(5 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Almond flour: 0.3cup(40 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2tbsp(15 g)
Vanilla bean: 1- (the seeds)
Baking soda: 0.8tsp(4 g)
Brown sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 50 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Salt in desserts may seem unusual but it serves to enhance the flavor of the ingredients: in this case, we paired it with chocolate to accentuate its intense taste. Dark chocolate and Himalayan pink salt cookies are really delicious treats, perfect for tea time! Easy to prepare without the need for molds, these Eggless Cookies are made with a butter, chocolate, cocoa, and almond flour dough, flavored with vanilla. The pink salt not only adds an extra touch but harmonizes all the flavors into a delightful balance. After tasting the dark chocolate and Himalayan pink salt cookies, you won’t be satisfied with the usual Chocolate Cookies anymore!
To make the dark chocolate and Himalayan pink salt cookies, pour the sugar and softened butter into a bowl , then add the finely chopped dark chocolate and pink salt .
Mix the ingredients with your hands , then add the vanilla seeds and baking soda . Continue working the mixture until you get a homogeneous consistency.
When you have formed a dough, add the almond flour , all-purpose flour , and cocoa powder .
Knead with your hands to incorporate the powders evenly . Divide the dough into 2 parts .
Form 2 rolls with a diameter of about 1.6 inches , then roll them in brown sugar to cover them completely . Place the rolls on a tray and let them firm up in the fridge for 2 hours .
After the firming time , cut the rolls into discs about 0.2 inches thick . Place the discs on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, spacing them apart .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 338°F for about 15 minutes . Once baked, remove from the oven and let them cool slightly . Your dark chocolate and Himalayan pink salt cookies are ready to be enjoyed !
Dark chocolate and Himalayan pink salt cookies can be stored in a tin box for about a week.
Replace the pink salt with other varieties like Hawaiian black salt, Maldon salt, or Persian blue salt!

