name:
Pasta with Parmesan Cream and Porcini Mushrooms
ingredients:
Mezze Maniche Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Porcini mushrooms: 10.6oz(300 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)- to grate
Whole milk: 0.6cup(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Anyone who loves mushrooms cannot resist the call of porcini: towards the end of summer, they peek out in the woods to challenge gatherers in an exciting (and tasty!) treasure hunt... the prize this time is a delicious first course: pasta with Parmesan cream and porcini mushrooms!. The meaty texture of sautéed porcini combines with the velvety touch of the cheese sauce, made with a milk base. A very creamy alternative to the classic tagliatelle with mushrooms or the traditional risotto , ready to bring to the table in a few easy steps: after taking care of the mushroom cleaning , in fact, it will only take a few minutes to cook this delicious pasta with Parmesan cream and porcini mushrooms!
To prepare pasta with Parmesan cream and porcini mushrooms, first clean the mushrooms: gently scrape the stem to remove the earthy part, then remove the residues with a damp cloth and a brush . Cut the mushrooms lengthwise into slices about a quarter inch thick . Put a pot of water on the stove to cook the pasta and heat a generous amount of oil with 2 cloves of garlic in a pan .
Add the porcini , then season with thyme , salt , and pepper. Sauté over medium-high heat for 6-8 minutes, stirring often to prevent burning.
Once cooked, remove the garlic and set aside some mushrooms for decoration . At this point, the water will have reached a boil, so add salt and pour in the mezze maniche .
In the meantime, prepare the Parmesan Reggiano DOP cream: heat the milk in a small saucepan , then add the grated Parmesan Reggiano DOP and a grind of pepper. Stir over low heat until you get a homogeneous consistency .
Drain the pasta al dente directly into the pan with the mushrooms and toss everything together, then add the Parmesan Reggiano DOP cream off the heat and mix . If necessary, you can add a bit of pasta cooking water.
Season with a final grind of pepper and plate, garnishing with the mushrooms set aside . Your pasta with Parmesan cream and porcini mushrooms is ready to be served !
It is recommended to serve the pasta with Parmesan cream and porcini mushrooms immediately.
Instead of porcini, you can use a mix of button mushrooms and rehydrated dried mushrooms!
For a thicker cream, you can replace the milk with the same amount of heavy cream.

