name:
Vegetable purée
ingredients:
Celery: 3.5oz(100 g)
Carrots: 3.5oz(100 g)
Red onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Peas: 1cup(150 g)
Fresh scallion: 5oz(150 g)
Zucchini: 10.6oz(300 g)
Potatoes: 7.1oz(200 g)
Spinach: 7.1oz(200 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Water: 2 ½cups(600 g)- at room temperature
Homemade bread: 7.1oz(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Vegetable soup is a typical winter comfort food, when there is a strong desire to pamper ourselves with a warm, enveloping, and genuine dish that warms us with taste. The soup, as we know, is the healthiest dish there is, but many wrinkle their noses at the mere thought... so how can we make it more appetizing? By blending it! Whether you choose an old-fashioned food mill from your grandmother or the latest generation mixer, it doesn't matter, vegetable soup, when so velvety and creamy, enriched with crunchy toasted croutons, becomes in just a few steps a much more inviting first course for the whole family!
ALSO DISCOVER the special: The best hand blenders
To prepare the vegetable soup, ready all the vegetables: peel the red onion and cut it into large chunks, peel the carrots and cut them into thick slices . Peel the potatoes and cut them into cubes the size of the carrot slices .
Cut off the base of the spinach stalks , then rinse them well under running water , dry them and cut them into 3 parts .
Now wash and trim the zucchini, then cut them into thick slices like the carrots . Use a peeler to remove the most fibrous outer part of the celery stalk , then cut it into large pieces .
Now take the spring onion: cut off the base and slice it coarsely as well . The vegetables are ready for cooking: in a high-sided pot, heat the olive oil, then add the onion, spring onion , carrot, and celery . Let them sauté for 2-3 minutes.
Then add the potatoes , zucchini , and cover the vegetables with half of the water . Cook over medium heat for 20 minutes.
After this time, add the spinach , pour in the remaining water , and add the peas . Salt and continue cooking for another 10 minutes or until all the vegetables are soft.
Once cooked, adjust the salt and pepper and blend the vegetables with an immersion blender (you can also use a food mill) until you get a homogeneous cream . Keep the vegetable soup warm and prepare the croutons: cut the bread into small cubes .
Place the bread cubes on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, drizzle with olive oil, and toast them under the oven grill for 5 minutes, or until they are golden brown on the surface . Serve your vegetable soup with the toasted bread croutons and sprinkle with grated Grana Padano cheese.
Store the vegetable soup in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to two days. It can be frozen if you used fresh ingredients.
Add a pinch of turmeric to your vegetable soup to give it a bright color, making it more appetizing!

