name:
American muffin
ingredients:
Eggs: 2- at room temperature
Butter: 10tbsp(140 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(380 g)
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)- (1 packet)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Lemon peel: 1- to grate
Vanilla bean: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
American muffins are perfect treats for breakfast, a snack, or a quick break during the day. They have a characteristic mushroom shape, and, as we all know, the dome is the first thing you should bite into! From across the ocean to your home comes our recipe for American muffins. In no time, they have captured everyone's heart, becoming a true symbol of American-style breakfasts and brunch, along with pancakes . From the basic muffin recipe, you can create all sorts of variations, like Chocolate Muffins , Chocolate and Pear Muffins, or Heart Muffins with a soft center, including savory ones! With some decorations, they can even become spooky treats for Halloween. We know, we've planted a little bug in your head "what's my favorite version?" To avoid mistakes, we invite you to try them all, starting with the original: the American muffin! Then let us know which one is your favorite after you've tried them all.
If you're looking for more delicious ideas, also try our recipes:
To prepare the American muffins, start by melting the butter and letting it cool. In the meantime, in a jug (or a bowl), combine all the liquid ingredients: milk, eggs , and the now lukewarm butter ; mix with a fork and set aside .
In a large bowl, place a sieve and sift the flour and baking powder , then add the sugar , a pinch of salt, and finally flavor by grating the lemon zest, only the yellow part .
and the seeds from the vanilla pod . Insert the beaters of an electric mixer into the bowl with the dry ingredients and turn it on at the lowest speed while adding the liquid mixture a little at a time : this way, you'll mix everything together without forming lumps. In the end, you will have a smooth and homogeneous batter .
With the help of an ice cream scoop, or alternatively a spoon, pour about 3 oz of batter into 12 muffin cups arranged in a muffin tin . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 35 minutes . Once cooked, let them cool and enjoy your American muffins !
American muffins can be stored for 2-3 days under a glass dome at room temperature. They can be frozen once baked, but it is not advisable to freeze the batter. Once the batter is ready, it is best to bake it immediately. If necessary, it can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 12 hours, but once baked, the muffins will have a different texture.
Customize your American muffins with the ingredients you like best. Some examples? Chocolate chips, blueberries, and why not try some goji berries!

