name:
Broccoli Velouté
ingredients:
Broccoli: 1lb(450 g)
Leeks: 1
Potatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Vegetable broth: 3cups(700 ml)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Bread: 2slices
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The broccoli velouté is a simple and tasty vegetarian first course, made even creamier by the addition of potatoes and leeks, which tone down the strong flavor of the broccoli. The vegetables, which are first sautéed in a pot and then cooked with vegetable broth, are finally blended into a cream and enriched with thyme leaves. The broccoli velouté is ideal for warming up during the winter months with a light and nutritious dish! If you have any leftovers, you can also cook gratinated broccoli or pan-fried broccoli .
Try these creamy variants as well:

To prepare the broccoli velouté, start by cleaning and slicing the leek thinly . Then peel the potatoes and cut them into cubes. Wash the broccoli, removing the stems and dividing them into florets . In a large pot, melt the butter, add the leeks , and let them soften over low heat for 10-15 minutes without browning.
Add the potatoes and broccoli to the pot and sauté for a few minutes, stirring, then add the hot vegetable broth and continue cooking for about 30 minutes over low heat, seasoning with salt and pepper.
After the indicated time, blend the vegetables with an immersion blender (remember to set aside some broccoli florets to garnish the dish). Put the velouté back on the stove , adjust the salt and add some thyme leaves . Remove the crust from the bread slices, cut them into cubes , and toast them in a non-stick pan with a little oil. Serve the broccoli velouté with croutons and a drizzle of raw extra virgin olive oil. Enjoy your meal!
The broccoli velouté pairs well with the flavor of seafood; to make this first course more refined, you can garnish it with grilled scallops, shrimp, or clams. To make the velouté even creamier, add a couple of tablespoons of fresh cream at the end of cooking!

