name:
Carrot Croquettes
ingredients:
Carrots: 2cups(150 g)
Onions: 2.5oz(70 g)
Potatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Garlic powder: to taste
Paprika: to taste
Type 00 flour: 1cup(115 g)
Breadcrumbs: 0.63cup(75 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Recipe for a starter or vegetarian appetizer or vegan: carrot croquettes! An alternative to the classic potato croquettes that will win everyone over and is really simple to make. Of course, even in this recipe, boiled potatoes cannot be missing as they give texture to the mixture and make it moldable. Thanks to the potatoes, you can form the typical cylindrical shape of croquettes! If you're not very experienced, a trick we want to reveal to you to get a perfect shape is to oil your hands before shaping them! The carrots will give the croquettes a unique sweetness, together with slightly blanched onions, while the paprika will add an extra kick! Thanks to pan-frying, you'll get a really crunchy outer crust and a soft and flavorful filling! Discover with us all the steps to make them and invite your friends, vegan or not, to enjoy them together!
Here are some other delicious recipes not to be missed:
To prepare the carrot croquettes, boil the potatoes . It will take about 30 minutes, depending on their size. Once ready, drain them and let them cool. Then blanch the onion as well, this way it will be sweeter. Now peel the carrots and cut them into chunks .
Also cut the onion into pieces; then place carrots and onions in a blender . Blend everything finely and transfer to a bowl.
Also mash the potatoes inside . Add salt , ground black pepper , and garlic powder. If you don't like garlic, you can omit it in this case.
Add the paprika and mix well , add the flour , and mix until it is completely absorbed. Finally, add the breadcrumbs .
Finish the mixture by working it with your hands , this way you will be able to better adjust the consistency if needed. Oil your hands and take a portion of the mixture . Shape the croquette into the typical cylindrical shape .
Gradually place the carrot croquettes on a tray ; you will get 10-12. Pour a drizzle of oil into the pan and let it heat. Place the croquettes inside .
Wait a couple of minutes until a nice crust is formed , turn the croquettes and brown them on all sides. Once ready, drain them on a tray with paper towels and then plate them . You can accompany them with the sauce of your choice.
Raw croquettes can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. They can also be frozen.
Once cooked, we recommend consuming them immediately; alternatively, they can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days and reheated before serving.
Accompany the croquettes with a sauce. We made one with Greek yogurt, salt, oil, and chives.

