name:
Spaghetti with Eggplant, Pecorino, and Mussels
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Mussels: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Black eggplants: 1
Eggplant: 1- zebrina
Eggplant: 1- Japanese
Shallot: 3.5oz(100 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Pecorino cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- (to grate)
Dry white wine: 2oz(60 g)
Parsley: to taste- the stems
Marjoram: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the time for purging the eggplant (at least 1 h)

instructions:
It is said that cheese should never be paired with fish, but that is not always true... in fact, in some cases it pairs perfectly, such as in spaghetti with eggplant, pecorino, and mussels! Mussels and pecorino is a combination often found especially in Apulian cuisine: in this recipe, however, a delicious eggplant cream flavored with the mussels' cooking liquid is also added, which envelops the spaghetti with its smooth and velvety texture. A tasty main course of land and sea created by Chef Alberto Marcolongo from the renowned Benoit restaurant in New York, part of the Alain Ducasse group, which combines simple and genuine ingredients in a delicious and innovative way, with an added touch of originality! Try the spaghetti with eggplant, pecorino, and mussels and be amazed forkful after forkful.
Discover these variations too:
Discover more delicious Spaghetti recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the spaghetti with eggplant, pecorino, and mussels, start with the Japanese eggplant: trim it and cut into thin slices . Transfer the eggplant slices to a colander, salt and let them drain for at least an hour.
Now take the purple eggplant and the zebra eggplant, cut them in half and score the flesh in a grid pattern . Place them in a baking dish with the cut side facing up and season with salt and pepper .
Add a sliced garlic clove , drizzle with oil and bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for about 25 minutes .
In the meantime, clean the mussels by removing the beard and impurities . Clean and slice the shallot and the other garlic clove .
Place the shallot and garlic in a pan with a drizzle of oil , add the parsley stems and let them flavor, then add the mussels .
Cover with the lid for 30 seconds , then deglaze with white wine and wait for them to open .
Remove the mussels and shell them . Discard the parsley stems and set aside the cooking liquid. By now, the eggplants should be cooked, so remove from the oven and discard the garlic .
Transfer the eggplants to a jug , then add the mussel cooking liquid along with the garlic and shallot .
Blend with an immersion blender while pouring the oil in a thin stream until you get a smooth and homogeneous cream. Put the cream back in the pan and in the meantime, bring a pot of salted water to a boil. After the Japanese eggplant has drained, quickly rinse and fry in seed oil at 285°F .
When they are golden brown, drain and transfer to paper towels, then salt . Cook the spaghetti for a few minutes less than the time indicated on the package .
Drain the pasta and finish cooking it in the pan with the eggplant cream . Off the heat, add the mussels and grated pecorino . Mix well to combine everything and plate.
Finish the dish with the fried eggplant and a few marjoram leaves . Your spaghetti with eggplant, pecorino, and mussels is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the spaghetti with eggplant, pecorino, and mussels immediately.
If you can't find Japanese eggplant, you can use a baby eggplant.

