name:
Spicy Chicken Skewers
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Hot Paprika: 1spoonful
Caienna pepper: 1spoonful
Honey: 1 ½tbsp(30 g)
Sesame seeds: 2tsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 7 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 2 hours for marinating

instructions:
"What’s for dinner tonight? Chicken!" Does that answer excite you? We’re ready to give you a recipe that will make your chicken dinner enticing and perfectly spicy: spicy chicken skewers! A simple yet flavorful preparation! Perfect for an informal dinner with friends, these chicken skewers will add a rock touch to the evening! The long marinade in paprika and cayenne pepper will allow the meat to absorb all the aromas, and once cooked, it will be very tender and slightly caramelized, thanks to the addition of honey... if you want to give a twist to the classic grilled chicken breast, try these spicy chicken skewers, you’ll taste the deliciousness!
Check out these variations too:
To prepare the spicy chicken skewers, start by handling the meat. Take the chicken breast and cut it first into strips and then into cubes of about 1 inch each side . Transfer them into a bowl and add the oil .
Salt, pepper , and add the spices: first the cayenne pepper and then the paprika .
Lastly, add the honey , the crushed garlic , and mix it all together . At this point, cover with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator to marinate for at least 2 hours, preferably overnight.
After this time, take the steel (or wooden) skewers and stack the pieces of meat , leaving space between the various cubes. Once all the skewers are formed , place them on a hot, slightly greased grill ,
and sprinkle them with sesame seeds . Wait 3-4 minutes until they are well charred and slightly caramelized. Then turn them , finish cooking for another 2-3 minutes, and serve your spicy chicken skewers .
Store the cooked spicy chicken skewers in the refrigerator for up to 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
Flavor your skewers with other spices like thyme or rosemary and add some orange or lemon juice to the marinade!
If you need to replace cayenne pepper, we suggest using only paprika or a dried sweet chili pepper.

