name:
Sicilian Ravazzate
ingredients:
Sugar: 10tsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Water: 1cup(235 g)- at room temperature
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Lard: 1.8oz(50 g)
Beef: 7.1oz(200 g)- ground
Sausage: 7.1oz(200 g)
Carrots: 1.6oz(45 g)
White onions: 1.6oz(45 g)
Tomato paste: 1cup(145 g)
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Peas: 1cup(150 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Bay leaves: 3leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 1
Sesame seeds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 2 h 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 13 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 5 hours of rising + 1 hour for the ragout

instructions:
A piece of soft bread-like pastry, filled with meat ragù and peas, baked in the oven: a Sicilian souvenir to share with friends! We're talking about Sicilian Ravazzate, the baked version of Rizzuole with ragù, béchamel, and peas , a typical street food perfect for any time of day. This delicacy adds to the list of Sicilian specialties to try: arancini , Scaccia , panelle , and Spitini palermitani ... try making them at home and bring them to the table for a dinner or aperitif with a Mediterranean flavor! As with all passed-down recipes, versions can vary from family to family. We propose a variant where the filling will win you over at the first bite, with its richness and the flavor of the ragù, in an irresistible mix that recalls the warmth of sunny Sicily. Are you already mouthwatering? Follow step by step our version of Sicilian Ravazzate to create a truly special recipe!
Enrich your aperitif buffets with other delicious treats like potato calzones !
To prepare Sicilian Ravazzate, start with the dough. Sift the flour and pour it into a stand mixer equipped with a hook . Add the sugar and the dry yeast .
Start mixing at low speed and while mixing slowly add room temperature water and when the water is absorbed, add the salt . Then add the lard, one piece at a time, making sure to add another piece only when the previous one is fully absorbed .
When the dough has pulled away from the sides of the mixer and clings to the hook , transfer it to a floured surface . Knead it by hand to give the dough a spherical shape and transfer it to a bowl . Let it rise for about 4 hours at a temperature of 82-86°F, covered with a clean cloth or in a turned-off oven with the light on.
Meanwhile, start preparing the ragù by beginning with the soffritto . Finely chop onion, carrots, and celery. Take a non-stick pan for cooking your ragù and add the chopped onion , carrots , and celery . Stir with a spatula or wooden spoon to mix the ingredients and ensure even cooking.
At this point, add the ground meat to the soffritto . Take a cutting board and remove the casing from the sausage . Then lightly mash the sausage with a fork and place it in a small bowl.
Now add the sausage to the soffritto and cook over medium heat for about 5 minutes, stirring with a spatula for even cooking. Then deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate. In a separate bowl, dissolve the tomato paste with a bit of water .
Then add the tomato paste to the pan , stirring well with a spatula to combine the ingredients. Adjust with salt and pepper. Add the bay leaves and let it cook covered for about 30 minutes over low heat. Then add the peas and continue cooking for another 10 minutes.
Once cooked, remove the bay leaves with kitchen tongs and transfer the ragù to a glass container to cool to room temperature . Once cooled, transfer to the fridge (the ragù for filling the ravazzate must be cold). After the 4 hours of rising, take the dough and shape it on a work surface into a loaf .
Cut the dough loaf into 13 pieces weighing 2.3 ounces each and form balls with your hands . Take a tray, line it with parchment paper, and place the balls on it . Let them rise for about 1 hour at a temperature of 82-86°F. When the balls have risen, lightly press them with your fingers to form a small disk.
Now fill your ravazzate. With a spoon, place some cold ragù in the center of the disk and close it by pinching the edges together . Then close the other edges to form a kind of pouch .
When well-sealed, shape it into a spherical form . Repeat the operation until all the dough balls are filled. Place the ravazzate well-spaced on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, with the sealed side down . In a small bowl, beat an egg and brush it on the dough balls. Then sprinkle with sesame seeds and bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 20 minutes (or in a convection oven at 350°F for 10 minutes). Remove from the oven , let cool slightly, and enjoy your Sicilian Ravazzate!
Sicilian Ravazzate can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Before serving, warm them slightly. They can be frozen once cooked if you have used only fresh ingredients.
The ragù can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2-3 days. It is possible to freeze the ragù if you have used only fresh ingredients.
The trick to successfully making Sicilian Ravazzate lies in the temperature of the ragù: it must be very cold and compact to prevent extra liquid from being released and the filling from leaking during cooking.
If you don't want to use tomato paste, I suggest adding potato starch or cornstarch to the ragù while it cooks to make it more compact and prevent it from leaking during cooking.
Iconic locations for snacks and local delicacies to bring to the table, Sicilian rotisseries have given rise to many recipes. Among them are ravazzate, rizzuole, and iris, which have become so popular that they are identified with the rotisserie itself. The typical preparation involves dough filled and then baked or fried for a rich snack or standalone dish!

