name:
Lactose-Free Cocoa and Cinnamon Pudding
ingredients:
Lactose free milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Lactose free dark cocoa powder: 4tbsp(30 g)
Cornstarch: 5.3tbsp(45 g)
Sugar: (135 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 4 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Note plus cooling time (about 3 hours)

instructions:
The chocolate pudding is one of the most beloved recipes... one of the most classic desserts that no one can resist! Its gelatinous texture, contrary to what it might seem, is not given by the use of gelatin but by a thickener like cornstarch, whose power is often intensified by the addition of chocolate. Today we have chosen not to use this last ingredient but wanted to demonstrate that even without it, it is possible to get a delicious lactose-free cocoa and cinnamon pudding, perfect for all family members! Digging a spoon into this vegan dessert, perhaps enjoying it with a delicious Vegan meringues , will be the best way to conclude a Sunday lunch or make snack time truly joyful! Preparing the lactose-free cocoa and cinnamon pudding is really easy; after tasting it, you won't think of buying pre-made mixes anymore! Discover also our persimmon and cocoa pudding , a delicious treat!
To prepare the lactose-free cocoa and cinnamon pudding, start by pouring the sugar into a bowl . Place a sieve over it and pour the cornstarch and cocoa into it.
Add a pinch of cinnamon as well , sift everything, and mix the powders until completely combined .
Pour the milk into a saucepan and, while cold, gradually incorporate the powders , whisking quickly and vigorously to avoid lumps . Continue adding a bit more powder , whisking continuously, until all the powders are used up. We recommend doing this in three additions.
Once you have obtained a smooth mixture , turn on the heat and stir continuously until the mixture has thickened and the first bubbles appear . This will take about 3-4 minutes of moderate heat cooking. Then turn off the heat.
Wet the inside of the molds with some water and shake them to remove the excess; then fill them with the still-hot cream and let them cool at room temperature for about 15 minutes. Next, place them on a tray and cover everything with plastic wrap, without letting it touch the pudding. Refrigerate for about 3 hours or until they have perfectly thickened; then unmold and serve the lactose-free cocoa and cinnamon pudding, dusting them with a bit of cinnamon .
The lactose-free cocoa and cinnamon pudding can be stored in the mold, well covered with plastic wrap, for a couple of days in the fridge. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of cinnamon, you can flavor your pudding with grated orange zest. Just add it to the mixture after the powders have completely dissolved!

