name:
Beans with Pork Rinds (Fagioli con le Cotiche)
ingredients:
Dried Borlotti beans: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Carrots: 1- small
Celery: 1rib
White onions: 1
Pork rind: 0.9lb(400 g)- (rind)
Carrots: 1- (small)
Garlic: 1
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
White wine: 6oz(170 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 3 ½cups(800 g)
Rind of prosciutto crudo: to taste- (optional)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 3 h 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the soaking time for dried beans (24 hours)

instructions:
Rome is a splendid city, just like its delicious cuisine. Beans with pork rinds is a main course from traditional popular cuisine that you can still taste in genuine and sincere trattorias. Such is the case with Osteria Bonelli: Simone Bonelli cooked beans with pork rinds for us with the devotion and precision reserved for the treatment of ingredients and with the passion and sentiment that bring back a traditional Roman recipe, rustic, of simple but hearty cuisine from our grandparents. The pork rind, or pork skin, is a very precious ingredient in popular cuisine because it flavors humble dishes, making them truly exquisite! In this dish, it is paired with beans, here with borlotti beans, to create a main course that knows no regional boundaries. Beans with pork rinds are also enjoyed in Umbria, Tuscany, and in every region and family with their own variations: some use cannellini beans, others prefer tomato paste over whole tomatoes. Discover the goodness of our version cooked for you directly from the heart of Rome!
If you love borlotti beans also check out:
If you love classics of Roman cuisine, don't miss the authentic amatriciana recipe !
To prepare beans with pork rinds, start by soaking the borlotti beans for 24 hours (or at least 12 hours) . Peel and trim the carrot, cut it in half . Then cut the celery stalk in half .
Clean the onion, take half of it . Drain the borlotti beans and place them in a pot covered with cold water . Add the aromatics and bring everything to a boil for 2 hours with the lid on at medium-low heat, skimming occasionally during cooking if necessary. The beans should be cooked but not falling apart.
Take the pork skin, and with the blade of a sharp knife, scrape against the grain to remove any remaining bristles. If necessary, trim the unattractive and tougher parts of the skin, then cut it into rectangles , and then into squares of more or less the same size for even cooking . Boil the pork skin in boiling water for about 20 minutes .
After the time has passed, drain the pork skin . Finely chop half an onion , the carrot, and the celery. Clean a clove of garlic, remove the core, and then cut it in half .
Crush it to make it into a paste. Set it aside to add later. In a non-stick pot, if possible, pour in plenty of oil and heat it slightly, then add the soffritto of celery, carrot, and onion . Stir, then flavor with ham rind (optional) to give the preparation more taste .
Add the fresh chili pepper, cut in half . If you prefer, you can remove the seeds, otherwise, leave them. You can also add the garlic paste at this point. Once you have allowed it to flavor for 5-10 minutes, remove the ham rind and add the pre-boiled pork rinds .
Salt, and let it flavor for about 3-4 minutes, stirring often because the pork rind tends to stick easily to the bottom and sides of the pot . You can then deglaze with white wine , allowing the alcohol to evaporate for a moment. Meanwhile, blend the tomatoes .
Pour the tomato sauce into the pot and stir , adjust the salt, bring to a boil and cook for about 20 minutes over moderate heat, with the lid on . When the sauce becomes creamier, you can add the previously cooked borlotti beans , cooking for just a few minutes to allow the flavors to meld without the beans falling apart.
Adjust the salt again if necessary , stir , and serve the beans with pork rinds with a drizzle of oil and some croutons !
Beans with pork rinds can be stored in the fridge for 2-3 days. If needed, you can also freeze everything if you used non-defrosted ingredients.
If using pre-cooked beans, remember that they are double the quantity compared to dried ones.
Instead of whole tomatoes, you can use tomato paste and vegetable broth.

Simone Bonelli is the owner, along with his brother Patrizio, of Osteria Bonelli in Rome. A place where tradition is preserved through the preparation of typical Roman and Lazio cuisine dishes, where grandmother's advice is given space to preserve the authenticity of the recipes while also seeking new ways and techniques to serve dishes with unforgettable flavors.

