name:
Paccheri with Shrimp and Scampi Cream
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Scampi: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Shrimps: 1lb(450 g)
Leeks: 1
Parsley: 1tuft
Water: 8 ½cups(2 l)
Tomato purée: ¾cup(180 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Shallot: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
The first courses with seafood are so fragrant, flavorful, and rich that they truly satisfy those who taste them. And if they are prepared by a familiar hand, the taste is even better and more enveloping. Paccheri with shrimp and scampi cream is indeed an act of love: choosing fresh seafood, patiently cleaning it, making the aromatic crustacean broth , and blending it with the shrimp cream and scampi. It results in a stunning dish without the addition of cream, offering an alternative to the classic linguine with shrimp . Does it seem impossible? Discover all the steps and make these paccheri with shrimp and scampi cream for a seafood-based lunch that will make you lick your lips!
Also, try these seafood first courses with paccheri:
To prepare paccheri with shrimp and scampi cream, wash and slice the leek . Proceed with cleaning the crustaceans. Remove the heads , discard the shells (they will be used for the broth), and remove the intestines (the black thread along the back of the shrimp and scampi) . Set the meat aside.
In a pot, add the leek , crustacean heads and shells , and a few sprigs of parsley .
Cover with water and boil for at least 90 minutes. When done , strain the broth and pour it into a tall pot that will be used for cooking the pasta.
In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil with the garlic clove , add shrimp and scampi , and sauté for 2-3 minutes over high heat, then deglaze with white wine .
Let it evaporate and then turn off the heat , remove the crustaceans from the pan and set them aside . Chop the chili pepper .
Clean and chop the shallot . In the pan where you cooked the crustaceans, add a drizzle of oil, the chili pepper, and the shallot . Stew, adding a ladle of broth .
Bring the broth to a boil and cook the paccheri until very al dente , adjusting according to the package instructions: in our case, the total cooking time is 18 minutes, so we boiled them for 10 minutes to continue cooking in the pan with the sauce. While the paccheri are cooking, add the tomato sauce to the pan with the sauté . Add salt .
Season with pepper to taste . Drain the paccheri directly into the pan with the sauce . Continue cooking the paccheri.
Now prepare the cream: in a tall glass, add half of the crustaceans , a ladle of broth , and 1.4 oz (40 g) of oil .
Blend everything with an immersion blender to obtain a cream . Add the crustacean cream .
Finally, add the remaining shrimp and scampi . Season with chopped fresh parsley and serve the paccheri with shrimp and scampi cream hot .
The paccheri can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
You can garnish with grated lemon zest just before serving.

