name:
Blueberry Muffins
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 2- medium (at room temperature)
Sugar: (135 g)
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- softened
Whole milk: 0.6cup(135 g)- at room temperature
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Baking soda: ¼tsp
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Blueberries: 1 ½cup(250 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Muffins are delicious American treats, very easy to prepare at home. Besides chocolate chip muffins , there is another very popular type: blueberry muffins! We're here to show you all the tricks to prepare them at home in just a few minutes! The ingredients used are very easy to find, and we recommend using them all at room temperature; only this way will you get a homogeneous batter that will allow you to obtain the classic mushroom shape, typical of American muffins . Blueberry muffins are perfect for breakfast and snack time, great to enjoy with hot tea or fruit juice; these soft treats will also be loved by the little ones! Make them for a brunch and many other occasions. Here are more muffin recipes you shouldn’t miss:
To prepare the blueberry muffins, it is best to use all ingredients at room temperature for at least an hour, so the mixture does not become loose. Pour the sugar into a bowl, add the seeds you have extracted from the vanilla pod , and also add the soft but still plastic butter . Work the mixture with electric beaters .
Once you have obtained a slightly whipped cream , add the eggs one at a time and work again with the electric beaters until they are well blended .
In another bowl, sift the flour , baking soda , and baking powder . Add the pinch of salt and mix the dry ingredients with a spoon.
Resume the egg and butter mixture and work again with the electric beaters at low speed. Gradually incorporate the dry ingredients with a spoon and continue mixing with the beaters until well absorbed. With the beaters still running, slowly add the milk, pouring it in a thin stream .
Now incorporate 4.4 oz of blueberries and mix with a spatula . Place cupcake liners inside a muffin pan and, using a spoon, distribute the mixture inside .
Each liner will need about 2.5 oz of the mixture, filling it 2/3 full . Decorate each muffin with the remaining blueberries, about 4 per muffin , and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 30-32 minutes. Always do the toothpick test before removing the muffins from the oven, then let them cool slightly before serving .
Blueberry muffins keep for 2-3 days at most under a glass dome. If you like, you can freeze them once cooked, then thaw them as needed and warm them slightly in the oven before serving.
Instead of the vanilla pod, you can flavor the muffins with lemon zest.
For a successful batter, it is very important to use ingredients at room temperature.

