name:
Rustic Fried Meatballs
ingredients:
Beef: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Homemade bread: 8.8oz(250 g)
Mortadella: 5.3oz(150 g)
Sausage: 3.5oz(100 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- to be grated
Pecorino cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- to grate
Eggs: 2- large
Parsley: 3spoonfuls- to chop
Garlic: 1clove
Wild fennel: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
The meatballs are a timeless dish of home cooking, loved by both adults and children! With the recipe for rustic fried meatballs, we offer a tasty variant to serve for appetizers. The beef is enriched with mortadella, sausage, bread, and cheese to obtain golden bites with a soft and juicy consistency: a delicious alternative in white to the classic meatballs in sauce , perhaps to be accompanied by a fresh yogurt sauce. Accompanied by a cold beer, rustic fried meatballs will be perfect to share with friends!
Also try these meatball recipes:
To make rustic fried meatballs, first remove the crust from the loaf of bread and cut it into chunks . Grind the bread in a mixer until it crumbles . In a large bowl, place the ground beef, crumbled sausage without the casing, and the mortadella that you have previously chopped in the mixer .
Chop the parsley and add it to the mixture , then add the seasonings: nutmeg, fennel seeds, salt, and pepper .
Add the grated Parmigiano and Pecorino cheeses , the minced garlic clove , and the beaten eggs .
Mix the ingredients well until you get a homogeneous, soft, and compact mixture (if it turns out too dry, you can add another egg). Lastly, add the bread and mix again . Take a large walnut-sized portion of the mixture and form a meatball .
Slightly flatten the meatball to obtain an oval shape , then coat it in breadcrumbs . Heat the vegetable oil in a non-stick pan and fry the meatballs, turning them occasionally until they are evenly golden . Drain on kitchen paper and serve the rustic fried meatballs still hot!
It is advisable to consume the rustic fried meatballs immediately. If necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 1-2 days.
You can freeze the raw meatballs and then fry them when needed.
If you prefer a lighter result, you can bake the meatballs in the oven.

