name:
Risotto with Gorgonzola, Pears, and Walnuts
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- spicy
Shallot: 1
Decana pears: 2
Walnut kernels: 1.4oz(40 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
White wine: 1glass
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Vegetable broth: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Risotto with gorgonzola, pears, and walnuts is an elegant and hearty first course, perfect for special occasions. In this risotto, the strong flavor of gorgonzola, the ideal cheese for Onion and Gorgonzola Risotto , is mellowed by the soft and juicy pulp of pears, and enriched with crunchy walnut crumbs. A delightful combination that you can also enjoy as an appetizer with our recipe for baked pears .
If you enjoyed this recipe, don't miss the variation of risotto with taleggio, pears, and walnuts !
To prepare risotto with gorgonzola, pears, and walnuts, start by preparing a vegetable broth, click here to see how to make it. Then roughly chop the walnuts and set them aside. Finely chop the shallot, then place it in a pan with 2 tbsps of butter; let it soften and add the rice, toasting it for a few minutes : add the white wine and let it evaporate .
Then gradually, as the rice dries, add a ladle of broth at a time , until it is fully cooked (about 15 minutes). In the meantime, peel the pears, remove their seeds, and cut them into cubes . Blend one of the two pears with a mixer. Remove the rind from the spicy gorgonzola and cut it into cubes .
About 5 minutes before the risotto is ready, add the cubed gorgonzola , the cubed pears, and the blended pear . Turn off the heat, add the grated Grana Padano PDO and stir in the remaining butter (1 tbsp). Plate the rice and garnish it with the previously chopped walnuts and slices of pear (optionally with Grana Padano PDO flakes) .
If you prefer a milder flavor, you can replace the spicy gorgonzola with the sweet one and add 2 tbsps of mascarpone during cooking.

