name:
Light Pancake
ingredients:
Whole grain farro flour: 3oz(85 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(85 g)
Coconut milk: 1cup(250 g)- natural and unsweetened
Eggs: 1- medium
Baking powder: ½tsp(3 g)
Muscovado sugar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Greek yogurt 0% fat: to taste
Figs: 1
Wildflower honey: ½tsp

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
From the Light cheesecake to the light rosti , you always tell us that you want to prepare delicious recipes in a less caloric version. Here are the light pancakes, our alternative to the classic pancakes and banana pancakes . Yes, you read that right, the soft American pancakes revisited to be perfect even for those who want to be more careful: butter-free pancakes with coconut milk instead of cow's milk and fewer eggs! If you're worried that light pancakes might be light but lacking in flavor... you're wrong! We tried them with different combinations, just to be sure, and we always liked them. If you're a fan of fluffy pancakes , you won't miss their soft consistency thanks to our light pancakes, which are also lighter... try it to believe it!
Here are other pancake variations:
To prepare the light pancakes, start by pouring the egg and sugar into a bowl , give a quick stir with a hand whisk and then add the coconut milk .
At this point, you can also incorporate the spelt flour , continuing to mix with the whisk to avoid forming lumps , and finally the all-purpose flour .
Finally, incorporate the baking powder and you will have obtained a smooth and homogeneous batter . Heat a non-stick crepe pan or a non-stick skillet and pour a couple of ladlefuls .
When you notice bubbles on the surface , flip the pancake and continue cooking . As they are ready, place the pancakes in a container . In total, you will get about 12-14 pieces.
Once you're done, you can move on to garnishing. Place a pancake on the plate and garnish with a bit of Greek yogurt , repeat the operation and on the last layer place the third pancake . Garnish the top with some more Greek yogurt, half a teaspoon of honey, and a few pieces of fig chopped into quarters. Here are your light pancakes ready .
The light pancakes can be stored in the fridge and consumed within 3 days.
Flavor the batter with some citrus zest or the seeds of a vanilla bean.

