name:
Pressure Cooker Beef Stew
ingredients:
Veal: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- shank
Yellow onions: 1
Carrots: 1
Celery: 2ribs
Tomato paste: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Water: 0.6cup(150 g)
Red wine: 1.1oz(30 g)
Sage: to taste
Bay leaves: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Leeks: 1leaf- (optional)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note For this recipe, a 6 L capacity pressure cooker is used.

instructions:
The stew is a classic second course to accompany with potatoes, polenta, or mashed potatoes. With the pressure cooker beef stew recipe, you can enjoy it every time you want thanks to the very reduced preparation times! You just need to make a simple sauté of vegetables, briefly brown the veal chunks, add the right amount of water, close the lid, and wait for the pressure cooker to do the rest... the meat will be tender and tasty, and you can serve your pressure cooker stew with the side dish you prefer.
Discover other pressure cooker recipes:
To make the pressure cooker beef stew, first prepare the vegetables for the sauté: clean and finely slice the onion , then cut the carrot and celery into very small cubes.
Pour a drizzle of oil into the pressure cooker, add the vegetables , and let them stew for 4-5 minutes. In the meantime, remove the fat from the meat and cut it into chunks .
Add the meat chunks to the sauté and brown for a few minutes over medium-high heat, stirring to seal them on all sides . At this point, deglaze with the red wine and let it evaporate completely.
Meanwhile, wrap the herbs inside a leek leaf and seal it with kitchen string (if you don't have a leek leaf, you can simply tie the herbs with the string, keeping the sage and bay leaf outside and the rosemary inside) . Add the herb bundle to the pot .
Also add the tomato paste and the water , then stir. Close with the lid and bring to pressure . When you hear the whistle, lower the heat and cook for 15 minutes.
After this time, turn off the heat and lift the valve to release the steam, then open the lid. Remove the herb bundle and adjust the salt and pepper . The pressure cooker beef stew is ready to be served hot !
The pressure cooker beef stew can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze it after cooking.
If you prefer a more brothy result, you can double the amount of water.
How to use a pressure cooker?
It is important never to overfill the pressure cooker. Usually, a mark inside the pot indicates the level not to exceed: usually 2/3. For foods that increase in volume, like rice, it is recommended not to exceed half. Before starting cooking, make sure the lid is properly closed and the valve is closed. As soon as the pot reaches pressure, you can lower the heat to make the steam release as constant and "light" as possible. Also, keeping it at a minimum saves energy.
How to open a pressure cooker?
Never open the lid while steam is escaping from the valve. After cooking, you need to release all the steam by lifting or rotating the valve, and as soon as the pot is no longer under pressure, you can open the lid. Be careful of the steam jet during the "decompression" moment.
Why cook with a pressure cooker?
The pressure cooker allows cooking food at a higher pressure, thus reducing cooking times.
How much water in the pressure cooker?
The amount of water should be adjusted according to the cooking times. It is important that it does not dry out completely during cooking.
What to cook in a pressure cooker?
You can cook potatoes, roasts, legumes, vegetables, broths.
How long do foods cook in a pressure cooker?
Each preparation has different cooking times; compared to traditional recipes, using the pressure cooker reduces cooking times by about half.

