name:
Spinach Spätzle with Speck and Cream
ingredients:
Spinach: 8.8oz(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 3- small
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Nutmeg: to taste- for grating
Fine salt: to taste
Speck: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Chives: 1tsp(3 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you have already made our spätzle recipe, the famous Tyrolean dumplings, and are now an expert in using the typical and ingenious Spätzlehobel , it is time to try another traditional variant of this typical first course: spinach spätzle with speck and cream. To make the dough of these delicious and colorful dumplings, use boiled spinach puree, which gives that bright green color and unique slightly bitter taste that deliciously contrasts with the cream, making the dish irresistibly creamy. A handful of crispy speck strips completes this appetizing dish. To vary the color and flavor of these pasta gems, also try the pumpkin spätzle . Lovers of Mediterranean flavors can try an aromatic variant of spätzle with tomato and lemon , a tasty combination of all-Italian flavors! Don't miss the recipe for strangolapreti alla trentina , bread and spinach gnocchi!
To make the spinach spätzle with speck and cream, first wash the spinach leaves and cook them in a pan over medium heat with the lid on (1-2) until they are well wilted .
Transfer the spinach to a beaker and blend them with an immersion blender until you get a creamy mixture. Then add the whole eggs and a pinch of salt. Mix with a whisk to combine, then add the water
and flavor with nutmeg . At this point, gradually add the flour and mix with a spoon to incorporate it into the mixture, taking care not to form lumps. Set aside the spätzle dough .
Prepare the sauce: chop the chives with a knife and cut the speck into strips . In a pan, heat the butter and oil .
Add the speck and let it fry for 2-3 minutes or until crispy. At this point, pour in the cream , the chives , adjust the salt and pepper, and let it thicken over moderate heat to make the sauce creamy.
Everything is ready to cook the spätzle: put a pot filled with salted water on the stove and bring it to a boil, then place the Spätzlehobel over the pot and pour the mixture into the designated space , sliding the tool back and forth so that the dough falls through the holes . Once in contact with the boiling water, the spätzle will cook in a few moments. When the spätzle start to float to the surface ,
drain them with a slotted spoon directly into the sauce of cream and speck , sauté for a few moments, stirring gently, adjust the pepper and serve your spinach spätzle with speck and cream hot !
Store the spinach spätzle with speck and cream in the refrigerator for a couple of days. We do not recommend freezing.
With leftover spätzle, you can make a delicious oven-baked gratin by adding Parmigiano Reggiano and other melting cheeses of your choice to distribute on the surface. If you do not have a Spätzlehobel, you can make spätzle with a potato ricer; in this case, you should aim for a denser dough by adding a little less water than the recipe calls for.

