name:
Salted Caramel Cheesecake
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 8.5oz(240 g)
Butter: ½cup(110 g)
Cream cheese: 2.2lbs(500 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Cornstarch: 2tbsp(25 g)
Sugar: 5 ¼tbsp(65 g)
Eggs: 2.6oz(75 g)- (1 whole and 1 yolk)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(130 g)
Butter: 3.3oz(95 g)
Salt: ½tsp
Cashews: ½cup(80 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time (3 h)

instructions:
Sweet and a bit salty! The salted caramel cheesecake is a sublime, scenic dessert perfect for any occasion. The biscuit base holds a soft and velvety cream, with a slightly tangy taste typical of this cake. The decoration this time is more delicious than ever! The sweetness of the sugar, transformed into caramel, will have a bitter note, and thanks to the addition of sea salt flakes, it will be slightly savory. The result will be a balance of flavors, embellished with a cascade of toasted cashews. Among all the cheesecake recipes, this is one of the most irresistible... ready for a new favorite in the kitchen? Discover also our chocolate and salted caramel cheesecake and the salted caramel cake for the most gluttonous!
To prepare the salted caramel cheesecake, melt the butter over very low heat and let it cool. Then pour the cookies into the mixer and blend them until completely crumbled. Transfer them to a bowl and pour in the cooled melted butter .
Mix well until the ingredients are combined. Line a 8-inch springform pan with parchment paper at the base and sides and pour part of the cookie mixture inside . Using the back of a spoon, gently press to form the base .
Then use the remaining cookie mixture to make the edge, always gently pressing with the back of a spoon . Let it firm up in the fridge for about 30 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the cream. Pour the egg and yolk into a bowl, add the sugar , and mix with a hand whisk. Gradually add the cream cheese , continuing to mix.
You should obtain a smooth and creamy mixture . Add the cornstarch and vanilla extract .
Mix and finally add the cream . Mix once more, and the cream will be ready . Retrieve the base from the fridge and pour the cream into it ,
then use a spatula to level it well to spread it evenly . Bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for 70 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the salted caramel: in a heavy-bottomed saucepan, pour in the granulated sugar and turn on the low heat. Meanwhile, heat the cream.
When the sugar is almost melted, use a ladle to stir the caramel. You should obtain an amber color . At this point, turn off the heat and gradually add the hot cream , stirring quickly.
Pour in the sea salt flakes , and finally add the cold butter and mix everything together .
With an immersion blender, blend the salted caramel , transfer it to a bowl , let it cool to room temperature, then transfer it to the fridge until use. In a saucepan, pour a tablespoon of vegetable oil, turn on moderate heat, and add the cashews .
Toast them for a few minutes until they are well golden . Transfer to a bowl and let cool. After the cheesecake's baking time, take it out of the oven and let it cool. Then, transfer it to a serving plate .
Pour the cold salted caramel over the surface and level it with a spoon . Decorate by placing the cashews on the surface randomly . Let it cool for at least 1 hour in the refrigerator before serving your salted caramel cheesecake.
The salted caramel cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
Alternatively, it can be frozen.
Instead of cashews, you can use hazelnuts, walnuts, or other nuts!

