name:
Pumpkin pie
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(310 g)
Butter: 5.6oz(160 g)- (cold)
Eggs: 1.8oz(52 g)- (about 1 medium)
Water: 6tbsp(90 g)- very cold
Sugar: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: ¾tsp(4 g)
Pumpkin: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (already cleaned)
Condensed milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2 medium)
Brown sugar: (75 g)
Sugar: 6tbsp(75 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Cinnamon powder: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 12
Cost: Average
Note + resting time

instructions:
As usual, in North America, the fourth Thursday of November is dedicated to Thanksgiving, and if you are among those who observe this "star-spangled" tradition, or simply want to bring a bit of the States to your table, there is still time to prepare a typical dessert for this occasion: the pumpkin pie! This traditional Halloween cake, usually made with shortcrust pastry, which can be replaced with puff pastry, contains a cream made with the star ingredient of the entire fall and winter, as well as the symbol of the night of Halloween: pumpkin! In this preparation, pumpkin is enhanced with a mix of spices that marry and exalt its delicate flavor. A sweet excuse to test the versatility of this precious seasonal ingredient and create a cake that will disappear, slice by slice. Discover also the goodness of our Lemon pie !
To prepare the pumpkin pie, start by cleaning the pumpkin and cut it into coarse chunks . Steam it until it becomes soft . Transfer it to a bowl and let it cool completely .
Then transfer it to a blender and make a smooth puree . Meanwhile, in a bowl, start beating the eggs with the granulated sugar using a hand whisk .
Next, add the brown sugar , cinnamon , and nutmeg .
Pour in the condensed milk and finally the pumpkin puree . Cover with plastic wrap and let the filling rest in the fridge for at least 1 hour. This step helps to absorb the foam created by beating the eggs .
In the meantime, prepare the crust. Pour the flour into a bowl and add the sugar and salt . Then add the cold butter in pieces and work with your fingertips to avoid warming the butter too much . When the dough is crumbly, gradually pour in the cold water .
Then the egg . When the dough has gained consistency, transfer it to the work surface and knead it with a little more flour, being careful not to overdo it; the important thing is to achieve a smooth and homogeneous dough . Then wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the fridge for about an hour .


After the resting time, take the crust and roll it out on a floured work surface with the help of a rolling pin . Make a disc a bit larger than the 10-inch mold with a removable bottom, onto which you can unroll the dough you have wrapped around the rolling pin . Remove the excess dough .

The cream is very liquid, so you can place the mold on a baking sheet before pouring the filling into the pie dish and baking in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 55 minutes . Remove from the oven, let it cool, then unmold the pumpkin pie and serve it . You can accompany each slice with a dollop of whipped cream!
Once ready, your pumpkin pie can be stored in the fridge for 2-3 days covered.
Freezing is not recommended.
Flavor the pumpkin pie with spices such as ginger, cloves, and allspice powder. For greater crust and cream stability, we recommend preparing 8-12 hours in advance. To maintain a nice orange color, prefer pumpkins like Delica and Violina!

