name:
Zeppole in air fryer
ingredients:
Water: 0.8cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Butter: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)
Eggs: 3
Fine salt: 1pinch
Sugar: 1pinch
Whole milk: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 150
Vanilla bean: 1
Cornstarch: 8tbsp(66 g)
Sugar: 1cup(210 g)
Egg yolks: 6
Powdered sugar: to taste
Black cherried in syrup: 9

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 9
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare zeppole in an air fryer, start with the choux pastry. In a pot, pour the water , butter , a pinch of salt and a pinch of sugar. Turn on the heat and start heating the mixture.
As soon as it reaches a boil and the butter is completely melted, add the flour by sprinkling it and mix with a wooden spoon . Cook until the dough detaches from the sides of the pot and a whitish film forms at the bottom .
Then pour the mixture into the bowl of a stand mixer equipped with a flat beater and start it at low speed. Add the eggs one at a time , waiting for the first to be well absorbed before adding more. You should obtain a smooth and creamy mixture . Transfer it to a piping bag with a 0.5-inch star nozzle.
Take a sheet of parchment paper and draw circles of 2.5 inches; you can use a cookie cutter to trace its perimeter with a pencil. Space the circles well apart . Turn the paper over and form the zeppole by making two rounds of choux pastry, one on top of the other, for each . Using a knife or scissors, cut the parchment paper around the zeppole , so that each zeppola is on a square of paper and can be lifted easily.
Preheat the air fryer to 356°F (we used a fryer with a 6-quart capacity), insert two zeppole inside and cook for 13 minutes, then increase the temperature to 392°F and continue cooking for another 12 minutes. Remove the zeppole when they are nicely golden , transfer them to a rack to cool and meanwhile cook the others. In the meantime, start preparing the custard. In a saucepan, pour milk, cream, the seeds of the vanilla pod and the emptied pod .
Pour the egg yolks into a bowl, add the sugar and mix with a whisk. Also add the cornstarch and mix again until you obtain a homogeneous mixture .
As soon as the milk and cream mixture reaches a boil, remove the vanilla pod and pour part of it into the yolk mixture ; mix to temper it .
Pour everything back into the saucepan and mix with a whisk until the cream thickens and starts to boil.
Transfer the obtained cream to a bowl , cover with contact plastic wrap and let it cool completely first at room temperature and then in the refrigerator . Once cold, transfer the cream to a piping bag with a 0.5-inch star nozzle. Take the air fryer-cooked zeppole and cut them in half, like a sandwich .
Fill abundantly with cream and close with the top part . Dust with powdered sugar .
Add a dollop of cream on top as well and decorate with a syruped cherry . The first zeppola is ready , proceed the same way for all the others and keep in the refrigerator until ready to serve.
You can store the filled zeppole for up to 2 days.
You can store the unfilled zeppole for 3-4 days in an airtight container, or freeze them.
You can store the cream in the refrigerator for 3 days.
Once cold, the custard may appear compact. Before transferring it to the piping bag, work it well with a whisk. If you prefer, you can flavor the cream with lemon or orange zest. For the number of zeppole to bake, adjust according to the size of your basket; it's important they are well spaced.


