name:
Pumpkin and Mushroom Pasta
ingredients:
Egg Tagliatelle pasta: 10.6oz(300 g)
Pumpkin: 1.5lbs(700 g)- to clean
Champignon mushrooms: 8.8oz(250 g)- (cream quality)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Rosemary: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Have you been gifted a pumpkin and, after using part of it for delicious side dishes like Sicilian Sweet and Sour Pumpkin or mouthwatering main courses like pumpkin braised beef , you don't know what to do with the leftover part? Here's a perfect solution for the whole family, especially designed for those on a gluten-free diet: pumpkin and mushroom pasta. A creamy and typically autumnal sauce, with pumpkin pulp and delicious cremini mushrooms, perfectly pairs with gluten-free tagliatelle for a rich first course that will make your mouth water... also ideal for your Halloween menu. Try the variant with speck or the one with guanciale , both appetizing and tantalizing!
To prepare pumpkin and mushroom pasta, start by cleaning the pumpkin. Cut it, remove the inner seeds and the peel ; you should obtain 460 grams (about 1 lb) of cleaned pumpkin. Then cut the pulp into slices and subsequently into cubes of about half an inch .
Also clean the cremini mushrooms (you can see the full process in the guide on our site how to clean mushrooms ), removing the most earthy part of the stem and cleaning both the cap and stem with a slightly damp cloth (alternatively, you can rinse them very quickly under a gentle stream of cold water and dry them quickly so they do not absorb water). Then slice the mushrooms thinly , also chop the cleaned garlic cloves and rosemary .
In a pot, pour plenty of water and salt it once it boils: this will be used for cooking the pasta. While the water heats, pour the oil and sauté the garlic and rosemary mixture in another pan . Stir for a few moments, then add the diced pumpkin and cook for about 10 minutes over medium heat, stirring often. When the pumpkin has softened (it will take about 5 minutes), remove a part of it and continue cooking the remaining pumpkin in the pan. Pour the removed pumpkin into a tall glass, add some pasta cooking water
and blend everything with an immersion mixer until you get a puree . Meanwhile, after the 10-minute cooking time of the remaining pumpkin, also add the mushrooms to the pan and cook for at least another 5 minutes over medium heat. Stir occasionally.
Add some pasta cooking water to the sauce to help the cooking process and make it creamy . After the indicated 5 minutes, also add the pumpkin puree, keeping the heat low ; stir, then salt and pepper . You can turn off the heat after a few moments.
Cook the pasta , drain it al dente and pour it directly into the pan with the sauce with the heat off. Stir gently and serve your pumpkin and mushroom pasta immediately .
It's recommended to consume the pumpkin and mushroom pasta immediately.
It's not recommended to store the cooked pasta. The sauce alone can be stored in the fridge for 1 day in an airtight container.
You can enrich this first course with flakes of salted ricotta to enhance the flavor of the mushrooms or add fresh liquid cream for even more creaminess!
Cremini mushrooms ( Agaricus bisporus , also known as Cremini ) compared to the white mushroom or button mushroom, have a much more intense flavor, almost musky. They can be substituted with the white mushroom, as they have the same characteristics, namely versatility in cooking and ease of preparation.

