name:
Halloween Shortcrust Cookies
ingredients:
Pumpkin: 14oz(400 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: 5.6oz(80 g)- cold
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(30 g)
Butter: 5.6oz(160 g)- cold
Powdered sugar: 1cup(130 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Powdered sugar: 0.4cup(50 g)
Water: to taste
Colored candies: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes to firm up the doughs

instructions:
Don't open that cookie … if you are thinking of the title of a new horror movie, you are on the wrong track, we are about to present to you our curious and original Halloween shortcrust cookies! We wondered: why choose between trick and treat when you can have both? Here's how: with our Halloween cookies that hide a sweet secret. At the first bite, you will discover the surprisingly delicious filling of our double-flavored cookies: cocoa because black cannot be missing on the witches' night, and pumpkin, which with its orange tones is the only color allowed on the table of Halloween, the most monstrous celebration of the year! And if you are looking for creepy ideas, try our Halloween brains , delicious chocolate bites with a scary filling! Get ready to welcome the neighborhood kids to your doorstep for the inevitable ritual and surprise them with these delicious cookies!
To make the Halloween shortcrust cookies, first cut the pumpkin into 1-1.25 inch slices , remove the seeds , and place the slices on a baking tray lined with parchment paper . Bake in a static oven at 430°F for about 20 minutes.
Once cooked , take it out of the oven and cut away the skin with a knife . Place flour and cold butter cubes in a food processor .
Blend quickly to get a sandy texture , put it in a bowl and then add powdered sugar and the pumpkin puree passed through a potato masher .
Finally, add the egg yolks , mix everything with a fork. Once the dough has acquired consistency , pour it onto the work surface and knead quickly until you get a smooth dough. If the dough is too soft (due to the pumpkin's moisture), add a little more flour.
Form a dough ball and wrap it in plastic wrap , then store it in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes. Now prepare the cocoa shortcrust dough following the same procedure: place the sifted flour in the food processor, add the cold butter cubes and blend to get a sandy mixture, pour the mixture onto a work surface (alternatively, you can use a bowl).
Make a well in the center and add the sifted cocoa powder to avoid lumps , the powdered sugar, also sifted , and the egg yolks . Initially mix with a fork.
Then, once you have gathered the ingredients, continue kneading by hand, form a dough ball , wrap it in plastic wrap , and place it to firm up in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. After the resting time, take the pumpkin shortcrust dough and roll it out on a lightly floured work surface to a thickness of about 0.2 inches.
Cut the cookies with the shapes you prefer, we chose a pumpkin-shaped and a ghost-shaped cookie cutter . For each Halloween cookie, cut out 3 shapes with the same cutter, leaving two whole and cutting a hole in the center of one with a round cutter . Place the whole shapes on a baking tray lined with parchment paper, while the ones with the hole should be baked separately on another tray as they will require shorter baking times . Bake the whole shapes in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 18-20 minutes, while the ones with the hole will bake at the same temperature for about 15 minutes.
Take the whole cookies out of the oven and let them cool. Now move on to the cocoa shortcrust dough, roll it out on a work surface to a thickness of about 0.2 inches , cut out 3 cookies in the same shape .
Place the whole shapes on a baking tray and on another place the shapes to cut out in the center with a round cutter (28-29). Bake the whole cookies for about 15 minutes at 340°F along with the cut-out ones at the same temperature. Once baked, take the cut-out cookies out of the oven .
And the whole ones , then let them cool. Meanwhile, prepare the icing: pour the powdered sugar into a bowl, add the water little by little while mixing with a fork until you reach the desired consistency .
Transfer the icing to a piping bag without a tip and cut a very thin hole in the end (or use a cone of parchment paper), and trace the outline on the edge of a whole cookie . Place the cookie of the same shape but with a hole on top and fill the inside with candies. Again, apply the icing on the edge .
Close with another whole cookie of the same shape . Always with the piping bag, decorate the surface of the cookies making monstrous faces . Your Halloween shortcrust cookies are ready !
Halloween shortcrust cookies can be stored in a tin box for 4-5 days. You can freeze both raw doughs.
If you don't have a potato masher, you can mash the pumpkin with a fork or a food mill. Have fun making many other monstrous shapes with the cookie cutters you prefer. As an alternative to cocoa and pumpkin shortcrust dough, you can make the cookies with simple shortcrust pastry.

