name:
Ghost Cake Pops
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Condensed milk: 1cup(230 g)
Butter: 1cup(95 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 3.2oz(90 g)- (about 2 small)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Vanilla: 2 ¼tsp(11 g)- natural
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Butter: to taste
White chocolate: 14.1oz(400 g)
Colored candy decorations: to taste- little eyes

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 20 pieces

instructions:
The spookiest night of the year is coming... to make sure we're ready, here's the recipe for ghost cake pops, a fun themed variation of the famous lollipop-shaped treats! The Cake pops are balls on sticks made with a simple butter and condensed milk dough that is molded and decorated in various ways: we chose to create funny little ghosts glazed with white chocolate and adorned with sugar eyes. The preparation is easy and fun, so much so that even children will be eager to participate and especially taste these delicious ghost cake pops!
Here are some other ideas for "spectral" sweets:
To make the ghost cake pops, first prepare the cake batter: place the softened butter and sugar in a large bowl , then work with electric beaters. When the mixture is combined, add the eggs, continuing to mix . Then add 3 oz of condensed milk and mix everything together.
Sift the natural vanilla , baking powder, and flour into the bowl a little at a time. Incorporate the powders with a spatula to obtain a homogeneous mixture .
Pour the batter into a 6-inch diameter pan that you have previously buttered , level the surface with the back of a spoon , and bake in a preheated convection oven at 340°F for 45 minutes. When the cake is cooked, remove from the oven and let cool .
Once cooled, remove the cake from the pan and crumble it roughly into a bowl . Add the remaining 5 oz of condensed milk and knead with your hands to compact the mixture .
Take portions of about 1 oz and mold the dough to obtain a rather irregular triangular shape, reminiscent of a little ghost . Place the ghosts on a tray and insert a stick into the bottom , then place them in the freezer: with these quantities, you should obtain about 20. Meanwhile, melt the white chocolate in a bain-marie or in the microwave .
Take the ghosts out of the freezer and dip each one into the melted chocolate until fully covered . Finally, decorate as desired with the sugar eyes . Your ghost cake pops are ready to be served !
The ghost cake pops can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
You can decorate the ghosts as you like by changing the type of chocolate or the shape of the sugar decorations!

