name:
Bloody Puff Pastry Hand
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8oz(230 g)- rectangular
Raspberry jam: (80 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste
Water: to taste
Egg yolks: 1

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 1 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
If horror movies are your passion and splatter scenes make you laugh heartily, we have the perfect recipe for a macabre evening of horror: the bloody puff pastry hand! Perfect for Halloween night, the bloody puff pastry hand will enrich your buffet together with a series of scary treats like popcorn brains or killer cupcakes . An easy and quick recipe thanks to the use of ready-made puff pastry, but not suitable for the faint-hearted because when you cut it and the raspberry jam filling oozes out, the effect will be truly gruesome... are you brave enough? Then get to work immediately to scare your friends with the bloody puff pastry hand: on Halloween, for once, anything goes!
To prepare the bloody puff pastry hand, first create a paper template by tracing the outline of your hand on a sheet and cutting it out with scissors. Now take the roll of ready-made puff pastry and lay it out on a work surface along with its parchment paper, then sprinkle the surface with a bit of flour . Place the hand-shaped template you prepared on top and cut the puff pastry along the outline with a sharp knife .
Repeat the process to get a second hand-shaped cutout from the puff pastry and remove the excess dough . Brush the edges of one of the two cutouts with water , then pour the raspberry jam in the center .
Cover the filling with the second puff pastry cutout, aligning the edges and sealing them gently with your fingers . Use a Saint Honoré nozzle to mark the shape of the nails by pressing it gently on the fingertips .
Finally, make horizontal slits along the fingers to make them more realistic, being careful not to cut the dough too deeply . Now brush the surface of the filled hand with beaten egg yolk and bake in a preheated static oven at 420°F for about 15-20 minutes. Once golden brown , take the bloody puff pastry hand out of the oven and let it cool slightly before serving and cutting it!
The bloody puff pastry hand can be stored at room temperature for about 2 days under a glass dome. Freezing is not recommended.
You can replace the raspberry jam with other types of fillings such as classic custard or chocolate custard , but the effect will not be as macabre... As an alternative to the piping nozzle to create the shape of the nails, you can place almond flakes at the fingertips as we did for the witch's finger cookies !

