name:
Ghost Muffins
ingredients:
Butter: 1 ½cup(190 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Baking powder: 1tbsp(16 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Condensed milk: 1.3cups(300 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
White Chocolate drops: 0.1lb(50 g)
Sugar paste: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Dark chocolate chips: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 16 pieces

instructions:
Halloween is the spookiest holiday of the year: ghosts, witches, and pumpkins fill children's imaginations on this day. To recreate this ghostly atmosphere with a pinch of irony and originality, we decided to offer you these delightful ghost muffins. Don't be afraid: there's nothing sweeter and more sugary than these treats! The muffin batter, made with condensed milk to achieve the right softness, is sweetened with white chocolate chips. Discover how simple it is to create the ghostly covering and eyes for these mischievous ghosts; you'll see them appear and... 'disappear' quickly from the festive table! If you want to enrich your themed buffet, take a look at our other monstrous cupcake and muffin recipes!
To prepare the ghost muffins, start by making the batter. In a large bowl, add the room temperature butter, cut into small cubes to work with more easily , and the sugar . Begin to mix with electric beaters at medium speed : you should get a creamy mixture.
Add the eggs one at a time to better incorporate them into the batter . Once they are well combined, gradually pour in the condensed milk while continuing to beat . Take the vanilla bean, scrape out the seeds after cutting it open, and add them to the mixture .
At this point, in a separate bowl, sift the baking powder and flour together , then add them to the mixture one tablespoon at a time to avoid lumps while continuing to beat .
Finally, add the white chocolate chips and mix well using a spoon. Transfer the batter to a disposable piping bag with a wide tip. Take a muffin tray and place paper liners in it. Then fill them up to about 0.4 inches from the top : you will need about 2.5 oz for each. After filling all the liners, bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 25 minutes (if using a convection oven, 320°F for about 15 minutes) .
Once the baking time is up, take the tray out of the oven and let the muffins rest . While the muffins cool to room temperature, focus on the decoration: take the fondant and roll it out to a thickness of 1/16-1/8 inch using a rolling pin, dusting the surface with powdered sugar if necessary . Then take a 4.3-inch diameter cookie cutter and cut out a disc . Repeat the process for the remaining fondant.
Take each disc and place it over a bottle or object with an opening or top about 0.8 inches wide : lay the disc so that it forms the ghost's cloak and press lightly with your fingertips to make it adhere well . Let it rest this way for about 2-3 minutes to take the correct shape. Once it has taken shape, gently place the cloak over the muffin to give it the form of a ghost . Repeat the process for all the muffins.
Now take a knife and cut the fondant to make the eyes and mouth of the little ghost : fill the eyes with chocolate chips . Create all your ghost muffins this way, and they will be ready to decorate your kids' Halloween party tables !
Ghost muffins can be stored for about 1-2 days under a glass dome.
They can also be frozen once baked (if you used only fresh and not defrosted ingredients), but without the fondant decoration.
If you prefer, you can flavor the muffin batter with the zest of an untreated orange or lemon instead of vanilla. To make them even more delicious, add dark chocolate chips to the batter: your little ones won't be able to resist!

