name:
Sweet Puff Pastry Mummies
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- rectangular
Raspberry jam: 6.3tbsp(90 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Hazelnuts: 6

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Halloween is approaching and you are looking for a cute themed sweet to offer your kids to avoid their tricky pranks? Besides the puff pastry pumpkins , we propose another of the simplest and fastest solutions: sweet puff pastry mummies! Delicious puff pastries filled with raspberry jam that, with a few tweaks, magically turn into little mummies, whose hazelnut eyes peek out between golden and crispy bandages... a snack that will make children happy. Even the grown-up ones: because there might be an age for going around ringing neighbors' doorbells, but certainly not for indulging in a delicious treat!
To prepare the sweet puff pastry mummies with raspberries, first cut 6 rectangles of 4x4.3 inches from the puff pastry, then cut thin strips from the remaining puff pastry . Poke holes in the puff pastry using a fork. Lightly beat the egg yolk in a small bowl and dip a brush into it. Then brush the perimeter of a puff pastry rectangle .
Keeping slightly to the left side of the long side, place a generous teaspoon of jam on the puff pastry . Then take the left edge, gently lift it and fold it over the jam .
Seal the edges by pressing with your fingers and fold the little bundle over the remaining puff pastry edge. Seal the edges again in the same way, then brush the surface of the rolled pastry with the egg yolk . Now take a strip of puff pastry
and wrap it tightly around the top closure . Just below this first wrap, create a slit to leave space for the mummy's eyes and continue wrapping the bundle crosswise or horizontally, slightly overlapping the strips to achieve a more realistic effect. Finally, brush again with the egg yolk . Cut the shelled hazelnuts in half along the ridge .
Then place two hazelnut halves in the slit between the bandages as eyes, pressing lightly to sink them into the puff pastry . Continue this way until you have 6 small mummies. Place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake them in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 25 minutes, until golden. Don't worry if some jam leaks out during baking: the effect will be even more realistic and spooky. Your sweet puff pastry mummies with raspberries are ready to be enjoyed !
You can store the sweet puff pastry mummies for 1 day under a glass dome. For optimal results, heat them briefly in the oven before enjoying them again!
Raspberry jam is perfect for a fun “realistic” effect, but if you prefer, you can substitute it with another fruit jam of your choice, or with the classic and much-loved chocolate hazelnut spread!

