name:
Apple Rings in Puff Pastry
ingredients:
Apples: 1
Puff pastry: 1roll- rectangular
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1spoonful
Brown sugar: 1spoonful
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Apple rings in puff pastry are delightful treats, a baked alternative to the classic apple fritters that will surprise you with their ease of preparation. You only need an apple, a single roll of puff pastry, and a common household tool (discover which one in the recipe!) to quickly make these delicious, fragrant treats, cinnamon-flavored. Try getting help from the little ones, perhaps to spend an autumn afternoon in the kitchen with children, because among the many ideas with puff pastry, this is definitely one of the most fun and original! Apple rings in puff pastry are an irresistible combination of flavors and textures. Take advantage of the season to make other delightful best apple recipes:
To prepare the apple rings in puff pastry, peel the apple , then cut out 6 slices of the same thickness , then take a piping nozzle to use as a pastry cutter to make the central hole. The nozzle should measure 1.2 inches from the wider side.
Pierce the slices using the wider side . Set aside the apple slices and cut strips from the puff pastry about 0.6 inches thick . Wrap the puff pastry strips around the apple rings to completely cover them.
Place the rings on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Separately, mix the sugar with the cinnamon in a bowl and in another bowl mix the egg yolk with the cream and brush this mixture on the surface .
Garnish with the sugar and cinnamon mix and bake at 400°F in a preheated static oven for 18-20 minutes. The apple rings in puff pastry are ready , let them cool slightly before enjoying them.
The apple rings in puff pastry can be kept for one day under a glass dome in a cool place. Freezing is not recommended.
You can also use granulated sugar as an alternative to brown sugar.
Work quickly with the puff pastry strips to avoid them becoming soft and sticky.

