name:
Creamy Four Cheese Pasta (Pasta ai Quattro Formaggi)
ingredients:
Pennette rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Taleggio cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- soft
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- sweet
Gruyere cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- to grate
Whole milk: 3cups(180 g)
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Cheese lovers, are you ready to tackle one of the most famous dishes in Italian cuisine? Here is the recipe for four-cheese pasta! A main course with a rich and substantial dressing, made with various types of dairy products: we have chosen the creamiest and delicately aged ones to please all palates, but nothing prevents you from personalizing the mix according to your tastes. In the American variant, the famous Macaroni cheese , béchamel sauce is even added, and it is baked in the oven! However, what we propose here is the simplest version of four cheese pasta, which we invite you to cook following our step-by-step directions... this way, you will avoid the risk of the cheeses curdling or separating, ensuring a perfectly velvety and creamy result.
Also, try these variants on the theme of four cheeses:
To make the four cheese pasta, start by immediately plunging the penne rigate into a pot of salted boiling water . While the pasta is cooking, prepare the cheeses: grate the Gruyère using a coarse grater , then cut the taleggio into small cubes .
Finally, remove the rind from the gorgonzola and cut it into pieces . Move to the stove: pour the milk into a saucepan and heat it over low heat until it almost boils, then add the gorgonzola .
Add the taleggio as well and stir gently to help it melt . Finally, add the Gruyère .
At this point, turn off the heat and add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano , then season with white pepper. Mix well to combine everything . When there is one minute left of the pasta cooking time, transfer it directly to the cheese sauce using a slotted spoon .
Adjust with a final grind of pepper and stir again . Your four cheese pasta is ready; serve it hot and creamy !
Once the four cheese pasta is ready, it is best to consume it immediately. With resting and cooling, the cheese will tend to solidify.
The cheese sauce can be prepared in advance and kept in the refrigerator, well covered, for up to 2 days. Just melt it in a double boiler or in a saucepan with a bit of milk to restore its velvety consistency.
If you wish to vary the types of cheeses, remember to maintain a certain balance between spicy or aged cheeses and milder ones.
Cheese pasta lends itself to tasty combinations; for example, you can try adding diced cooked ham or sautéed vegetables. Alternatively, we suggest these recipes: four-cheese pasta with speck , pasta with sausage and gorgonzola , and creamy pasta with mushrooms, speck, and brie!

