name:
Chicken Nuggets
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 2.2lbs(1.1 kg)- (cold from fridge)
Bread: 8.8oz(250 g)- crumb
Mustard: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp
Garlic powder: 0.4tsp(2 g)
Onion powder: 0.4tsp(2 g)
Sweet Paprika: ½tsp(2 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Sparkling water: 1.6cups(380 g)- (cold from the fridge)
Corn flakes: 8cups(200 g)- unsweetened
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Peanut seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 34 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Chicken nuggets, cheeseburgers and french fries are staples in fast food joints around the world! But have you ever tried making chicken nuggets with your own hands? These golden meat bites are very easy to make at home because you'll only need a mixer to blend all the ingredients. The secret to their deliciousness lies in the ultra-crispy coating, which is easily revealed: corn flakes! The chicken croquettes are first coated with batter and then with corn flakes, which, after frying at the right temperature, will ensure a perfect breading. Adjust the spice quantities to your liking, making them suitable for both adults and kids, and serve the chicken nuggets as an appetizer, accompanied by mayonnaise, ketchup, or other sauces of your choice... they will disappear in a few minutes!
Also, check out these recipes inspired by chicken nuggets:
Discover more delicious Chicken recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the chicken nuggets, first clean the chicken breast from any cartilage and small bones, then cut it into irregular cubes . Remove the crust from the bread and cut the crumb into cubes as well. Place the crumb and the chicken in a mixer .
Add the garlic and onion powder , sweet paprika , salt, and pepper .
Also add the oil and mustard , then blend everything until you get a homogeneous mixture .
Transfer the mixture to a bowl, and with wet hands, take portions of about 1.4 oz each. Round the mixture between your palms and then flatten it slightly . Place the nuggets on a tray lined with parchment paper and set aside (in summer, store them in the refrigerator).
In a bowl, pour the flour with the salt and pepper, then add the cold water gradually while mixing with a whisk . Mix until you get a smooth, lump-free consistency .
In a separate dish, coarsely crumble the corn flakes with your hands and pour the semolina into a third bowl. You are ready for breading: coat the nuggets on both sides first with the semolina and then with the batter .
Finally, cover them with the crumbled corn flakes . Proceed in this way to bread all the nuggets, placing them on the tray . At this point, heat the vegetable oil to 320°F and immerse a few nuggets at a time .
Fry for 4-5 minutes until they are golden brown, then drain and transfer to paper towels . Salt to taste and serve your chicken nuggets hot and crispy !
It is recommended to consume the chicken nuggets right after frying.
If desired, you can prepare the nuggets in advance and store them in the refrigerator without breading for up to one day, covered with plastic wrap.
You can freeze the nuggets without breading; let them thaw in the refrigerator, then proceed as per the recipe.
If you prefer to avoid frying, you can bake the chicken nuggets in a static oven at 350°F for about 25-30 minutes, adding a drizzle of oil.
Instead of chicken breast, you can also use chicken thighs.
You can flavor the chicken nuggets with herbs and lemon zest as an alternative to spices.
To get a darker and golden batter color, you can replace the sparkling water with the same amount of amber beer, always cold from the fridge.
If the breading with corn flakes has won your taste buds, also try this recipe: Chicken breast with corn flakes !

