name:
Apple Pie
ingredients:
Butter: 1cup(225 g)- cold from the refrigerator
Type 00 flour: 3.8cups(450 g)
Salt: 1pinch
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)- chilled
Rennet apple: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (already cleaned)
Lemons: 1
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp
Nutmeg: to taste- to grate
Water: 2spoonfuls
Whole milk: - to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + 20 minutes resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
When it comes to American cuisine, one of the recipes that immediately comes to mind is without a doubt the legendary Granny Goose's pie, the Apple Pie, better known overseas as American Apple Pie, which is the national American dessert along with the Cheesecake. The preparation of the Apple Pie is not particularly difficult, it's just a bit laborious due to the assembly of the pie and any decorations. Also try our Lemon pie !
To prepare the Apple Pie, start by making the dough. Place the cold refrigerator butter cut into pieces, flour, and a pinch of salt in the stand mixer . Turn on the paddle attachment and add the ice-cold water , continuing for a few seconds until you get a rather coarse dough ; then transfer it to a wooden work surface using a kitchen spatula.
Knead the dough with your hands for 8-10 minutes until it has a smooth consistency, then put it in the refrigerator to rest for at least 20 minutes, covered with plastic wrap or in a plastic bag . In the meantime, you can proceed with preparing the filling for the Apple Pie. First, take care of the cleaning of the apples. Wash and peel them ;
cut them into wedges and then divide each wedge into slices 1/4 inch thick each . To prevent them from browning, soak the cut apples in a bowl with water and lemon and set them aside. In a pan, preferably non-stick, heat the sugar, ground cinnamon, and grated nutmeg .
Pour two tablespoons of water and cook the caramel, stirring with a wooden spoon, until you see large bubbles; at this point, dissolve a small knob of butter in the caramel . Add the apples and the grated lemon zest , sautéing for a few minutes until the apples are slightly soft on the outside and very crunchy on the inside. Turn off the heat and let it cool.
Lightly butter a round fluted pie pan about 10 inches in diameter . If you don't have a fluted pie pan, you can use a smooth pie pan. After 20 minutes, remove the dough from the refrigerator and divide it into two parts with a knife, one slightly larger than the other . With a rolling pin, start to roll out the larger part of the dough on a lightly floured work surface, trying to make a rounded shape with a thickness of 1/4 inch .
Wrap the dough around a rolling pin and line the pie pan . Distribute the apples in the pie pan, pouring more in the center to create a small mound and give the Apple Pie its classic shape . Add a few dabs of butter over the apples and roll out the remaining dough into a circle the same size as the previous one, which you will place on the pie to cover the filling .
Next, trim the edges of the pie pan, cutting the excess dough on the outside with a smooth-bladed knife . Seal the pie by pinching the dough with your fingertips to seal the edges well (alternatively, for a more classic version, you can decorate them with the tines of a fork). With a smooth-bladed knife, make cuts about 1 inch long near the center, which will both beautify the pie and allow steam to escape that will form inside .
Brush the surface of the Apple Pie with milk and bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 20 minutes. After the necessary time, brush again with milk and bake again, lowering the temperature to 355°F for 20 minutes. Brush a third time and bake at 340°F for another 20 minutes. If you have a convection oven, bake at 355°F, 320°F, and 300°F for 10 minutes each time. When the Apple Pie is ready and has taken on color, turn off the oven and let it cool inside . Then take it out and serve the Apple Pie directly in the baking dish.
The Apple Pie can be stored under a glass dome for 2-3 days. In the refrigerator, it can be kept for up to a week: before consuming it, heat it for a few minutes in the oven or a few seconds in the microwave.
Cut the apples at the last moment because they will turn black very quickly. If necessary, you can soak them in cold water with the juice of one lemon. If you notice that the Apple Pie tends to color too much during baking, cover it with a sheet of aluminum foil and finish baking this way.
It is said that originally the Apple Pie was a typical English dessert, but the recipe, having arrived in America, became very famous in the New England area, where it was consumed at the end of the meal and its leftovers (difficult to store for long because there were no refrigerators) accompanied the next morning's breakfast. The success of the Apple Pie spread across the continent, so much so that today it has become an American emblem.

