name:
Rigatoni with Puttanesca Sauce and Nduja
ingredients:
Rigatoni: 11.3oz(320 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Nduja: 3.5oz(100 g)
Taggiasca olives: 2.8oz(80 g)
Salted capers: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Salted anchovies: 4
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1bunch
White wine: 0.6cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Rigatoni with puttanesca sauce and nduja is a first course that combines the most intense and bold flavors of Mediterranean cuisine, delivering an explosion of taste in every bite. This appetizing mix has been expertly created by Chef Alberto Marcolongo, Executive Chef of the renowned Benoit in New York, part of the prestigious Alain Ducasse group. Marcolongo's intent is clear: to maximize the traditional Italian ingredients in a modern and creative way, inspired by the typical spaghetti alla puttanesca . The base dressing is a perfect blend of the spiciness of Calabrian nduja, which with its creamy consistency envelops each rigatoni, and the sweetness of oven-roasted cherry tomatoes, caramelized and intensely flavorful. To complete the dish, there are Taggiasca olives, anchovies, and capers for the essential savory note. Rigatoni with puttanesca sauce and nduja best expresses the culinary meeting between two different regions, thanks to the creative touch of an internationally renowned chef!
If you love these tasty reinterpretations, also try:

To prepare rigatoni with puttanesca sauce and nduja, wash and cut the cherry tomatoes into wedges . Place half of them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and roast them in the oven at 350°F with salt, pepper, and oil until they start to caramelize . After 15 minutes, add half of the Taggiasca olives and continue cooking for another 15 minutes .
Set aside . Cut the nduja into pieces . Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan with a clove of garlic, then add the nduja and let it melt.
When it starts to caramelize at the bottom, add the anchovies, the remaining olives , and the (previously desalinated) capers . Cook for about 5 minutes, then deglaze with white wine .
Add the remaining raw cherry tomatoes and let it cook for about 15 minutes; once cooked, remove the garlic clove . Meanwhile, cook the rigatoni in plenty of salted water .
Finely chop the parsley . A few minutes before the pasta is done, drain it into the sauce , stir to flavor and complete the cooking; if necessary, add a ladle of hot water.
Finish with the olives and the roasted cherry tomatoes . Scent with plenty of parsley .
Stir and serve garnished with more fresh parsley as desired . Rigatoni with puttanesca sauce and nduja are ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to eat the rigatoni with puttanesca sauce and nduja immediately.
It is not necessary to salt the sauce as it is already quite savory.

