name:
Valdostana Cutlets
ingredients:
Veal chops: 4- boneless
Prosciutto cotto: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to be sliced not too thinly)
Fontina cheese: 5.6oz(160 g)
Eggs: 4- medium
Breadcrumbs: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Clarified butter: 1cup(250 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
The word "cutlet" already makes your eyes light up! Here we are at a pro level: the Valdostana cutlets, in addition to being breaded and fried like the classic Milanese cutlet , are also stuffed with fontina cheese and cooked ham. One of the traditional dishes in the Aosta Valley, known worldwide and especially appreciated in the autumn and winter period, to be enjoyed as a substantial main course in traditional trattorias and restaurants... and once you fall in love with this dish, you can also prepare it at home! Get advice from your butcher on how to best prepare the meat cut for stuffing, breading, and expertly frying your Valdostana cutlet!
Here are some other delicious cutlet recipes:
For the Valdostana cutlets, start by cutting the ham and fontina cheese into quarter-inch slices . Then clean the bone from the meat, scrape the meat off the bone, and open it up like a book with a very sharp carving knife . Slightly pound the meat with a moistened meat mallet (so the meat doesn't break while pounding), to achieve a thickness of about 1/4 inch. Stuff with a few slices of fontina .
Add also 1.4 ounces of sliced ham and then some more fontina (we recommend about 0.9 ounces per cutlet in total), before closing and slightly pounding again with the previously moistened meat mallet. Once your cutlets are stuffed, you can move on to breading: beat the eggs in a very large plate or tray , then pour the breadcrumbs also in a very large plate or tray.
Salt and pepper the meat to taste on both sides . Dip the stuffed cutlet first in the eggs and then in the breadcrumbs , making sure to bread both sides evenly.
You will need to double bread, so dip in the eggs and breadcrumbs again to ensure the cutlets are well sealed, especially on the edges . You can pour the clarified butter into a very large non-stick pan : when it has melted and reached temperature, you can cook one cutlet at a time .
Brown well on both sides, it will take about 18 minutes in total , then drain on paper towels . Let it rest for about 5 minutes so the juices redistribute. Season with sea salt flakes and serve your Valdostana cutlet, perhaps with French fries or roasted potatoes or sautéed vegetables .
It is recommended to consume the Valdostana cutlets immediately after the 5-minute rest.
Freezing is not recommended.
We recommend stuffing as indicated, without bringing the filling to the edges so that the cutlet seals well and does not open during cooking.
We recommend pounding the meat with a moistened meat mallet to avoid tearing it, alternatively protected by parchment paper.
There is another version of the Valdostana cutlet: breaded and fried cutlet with cooked ham and fontina on top. Which one do you prefer?

