name:
Baked Lasagna Rolls with Meat Sauce
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)- fresh
Prosciutto cotto: 8.5oz(240 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- (to grate)
Whole milk: to taste
Water: to taste
Ground beef: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Tomato purée: 3cups(700 g)
White onions: 1
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Garlic: 1clove
Red wine: ¼cup(60 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Whole milk: 3cups(700 g)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(70 g)
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Baked lasagna rolls with meat sauce are a scenic reinterpretation of the classic Lasagne alla bolognese . Perfect for adding some zest to Sunday lunch and ideal as an original and appealing proposal for the first course of your Christmas menu. The base is made of egg sheets that are patiently rolled around a delicious filling of meat sauce , béchamel , and cooked ham. Baking in the oven will ensure the irresistible golden crust that will make your mouth water at first sight... bring the lasagna rolls with meat sauce to the table and let us know how quickly they disappear!
Discover more delicious Lasagna recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the baked lasagna rolls with meat sauce, start with the sauce: finely chop the onion, carrot, and celery for the sauté . In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil with a clove of garlic and rosemary . Let it flavor and then remove the aromas from the pan .
Add the ground meat , break it up with the spoon and let it brown until the bottom is dry. Then, deglaze with the wine and let the alcohol evaporate, then add the chopped vegetables .
Pour in the tomato puree and thin it with a little water, just enough to slightly extend the sauce. Salt and cook for 40 minutes on low heat . Meanwhile, prepare the béchamel: heat the milk in a saucepan with nutmeg .
In another saucepan, melt the butter, then add the flour and stir vigorously with the whisk. At this point, add the hot milk in 2 or 3 batches and continue cooking, stirring, until the sauce has thickened . Let the béchamel cool.
In a round baking dish with a diameter of 12 inches, pour a layer of béchamel and one of meat sauce , mix to combine .
Now take an egg sheet and spread it with béchamel , then distribute the meat sauce over half or slightly more of the sheet . Lay a slice of ham over the meat sauce .
Roll the sheet from the short side , then divide the roll into three equal parts with a serrated knife . Arrange the rolls in the baking dish .
Now thin the remaining meat sauce and béchamel with a little water. Distribute the meat sauce over the rolls .
Do the same with the béchamel . Sprinkle the surface with grated Parmigiano Reggiano and bake in a preheated static oven at 400°F for 20-30 minutes. The baked lasagna rolls with meat sauce are ready to be enjoyed .
Baked lasagna rolls with meat sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
You can prepare the meat sauce and béchamel in advance and store them in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, making sure to cover the béchamel with plastic wrap in contact.
You can make the recipe with fresh homemade pasta sheets following our recipe for fresh egg pasta .

