name:
Creamy Apple Pie
ingredients:
Golden delicious apples: 1.5lbs(700 g)- cleaned
Eggs: 2- (medium)
Whole milk: ½cup(110 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Sugar: 5 ½tbsp(70 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.6cup(70 g)
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Brown sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The creamy apple pie is a delicious variation of the classic apple pie , soft and moist like a flan, enriched with ground cinnamon, which will give a pleasant spicy note to this homemade dessert. Rich in juicy apples and without yeast, it will win you over at the first slice for its simple and rustic taste, a genuine triumph of fresh fruit, which releases a unique aroma that smells like home and loving care. Let yourself be tempted by this sweet treat and come discover how easy it is to prepare our creamy apple pie.
Also try these delicious variations:
To prepare the creamy apple pie, peel the apples and remove the core: the weight should be 1.5 lbs . Slice them very thinly and set them aside .
Heat the milk and butter on the stove , until the butter melts . Then let it cool slightly. In the meantime, beat the eggs .
Add the sugar along with the cinnamon (or lemon zest) and salt .
Add the flour and mix until it is absorbed. Finally, slowly add the milk and butter mixture, stirring . The mixture should be smooth and without lumps .
Lastly, add the apples and gently mix to coat them in the batter. Pour the batter into a greased and sugared 9.5-inch pan . Smooth it slightly .
Sprinkle the surface with brown sugar and bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for about 45 minutes, or until the surface is golden and caramelized . Let the creamy apple pie cool before serving .
You can store the creamy apple pie in an airtight container for 2-3 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
As an alternative to butter, you can use 2 tbsps of vegetable oil, while cow's milk can be replaced with a plant-based milk. In this case, simply add all the ingredients cold.

