name:
Mushroom Risotto with Dried Mushrooms
ingredients:
Rice: 1 ¾cup(320 g)- for risottos
Dried mushrooms: 1.5oz(45 g)
Vegetable broth: 8 ½cups(1.5 l)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Note + soaking time for dried mushrooms (20 min.) and broth preparation time

instructions:
We are sure you can smell the aroma of this dried mushroom risotto from the screen! A timeless dish, unlike risotto with fresh mushrooms or risotto with porcini mushrooms , whose preparation is strictly linked to a short period of the year, when these fruits of the earth peek out in the woods. During all other months, for those who, like us, love recipes with an autumn flavor, dried mushrooms come to the rescue! An ingredient much easier to find, and just as tasty... also because we will use the mushroom soaking water to give an even richer and more intense aroma to this vegetarian first course. Discover the goodness of our dried mushroom risotto and experiment with tasty combinations like for example Porcini and Saffron Risotto or risotto with mushrooms and sausage !
To make the dried mushroom risotto first prepare the vegetable broth following our recipe. Meanwhile, soak the dried mushrooms in a bowl with plenty of lukewarm water and let them soak for at least 20 minutes . After this time, drain the mushrooms and add the soaking water to the vegetable broth , after filtering it through a fine mesh strainer (alternatively you can use cheesecloth).
Pour the rice into a saucepan with a drizzle of hot oil , season lightly with salt and toast for 3-4 minutes over medium-low heat, stirring constantly. Start cooking the rice by moistening it with a ladle of broth at a time; wait for the liquid to be absorbed before adding the next one .
Add the mushrooms and continue with the cooking of the rice . When the rice is cooked (it will take about 20 minutes), turn off the heat and stir in the butter .
Also add the grated Grana Padano DOP and mix well to blend everything together, then scent with a few leaves of thyme . Your dried mushroom risotto is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the dried mushroom risotto immediately.
You can add to the finished risotto a handful of toasted hazelnuts or walnuts in a pan for a crunchy note.
For an even more fragrant result you can make an aromatic butter in this way: work 1.41 oz of butter with a fork, then add 0.18 oz of finely chopped dried mushrooms and a sprig of parsley (alternatively to thyme); blend everything together, cover the bowl with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator. At the end of cooking, stir the risotto with the Grana Padano DOP and the cold aromatic butter!
Looking for a first course with an autumn flavor that is not a risotto? Try our Lasagna with mushrooms recipe!

