name:
Sweet Jack O' Lantern Tartlets
ingredients:
Potato starch: ½cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Nut flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Condensed milk: 1cup(230 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp(2 g)
Pumpkin: 2cups(450 g)- already cleaned
Condensed milk: 6oz(170 g)
Cinnamon powder: ¼tsp(1 g)
Powdered ginger: ¼tsp(1 g)
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 7 pieces

instructions:
Many, many years ago in Ireland, a stingy drunk named Jack found himself face to face with the devil himself. However, he was so clever that he managed to trap him, so in exchange for his freedom, the devil promised Jack that he would never take his soul. Jack continued his dissolute life, and when he died, he was not admitted to heaven. He then went down to hell, but Beelzebub, laughing, reminded him of their pact and sent him away, granting him only a coal to light his way, having to wander without rest for eternity... Jack stuck the coal in a pumpkin, and since then, he goes around scaring everyone, on the night of Halloween. But we tried to make old Jack good, and the sweet Jack O’Lantern tartlets are the result! Egg-free, without artificial colors or decorations, these spooky treats made of crumbly hazelnut shortcrust pastry contain a velvety pumpkin milk cream filling. The decorations? All-natural, with cinnamon and mint leaves! So, would you have ever thought that Jack could become so good?
To prepare the sweet Jack O’Lantern tartlets, start by making the cream to fill them. Peel the pumpkin, cut it into cubes , and transfer it to a saucepan. Add the condensed milk , the dried ginger ,
the cinnamon powder , a pinch of salt, and cook for about 20 minutes over moderate heat, stirring often . Once the cream has thickened and the pumpkin is tender, blend everything until you get a very smooth mixture.
Transfer the cream to a small bowl , let it cool, and in the meantime, prepare the shortcrust pastry. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle, pour in the all-purpose flour, hazelnut flour , starch, and cinnamon .
Then add the cold butter cut into small pieces and set the machine to low speed. Once you get a sandy mixture, add the condensed milk and continue to mix for a few minutes .
Transfer the dough to a work surface and knead it with your hands for a few minutes, just long enough to compact it . Take 2/3 of the dough, place it on a sheet of parchment paper and flatten it with your hands .
Place another sheet of parchment paper on top and roll out the dough with a rolling pin until it is about 1/6 inch thick .
Butter the tartlet molds using a brush and cut out disks about 4.75 inches in diameter from the shortcrust pastry sheet ; you can use a pastry ring or a small bowl for this operation. Transfer the shortcrust pastry disk to the 4.5-inch diameter mold and press lightly with your fingers to adhere it well, then trim the excess dough with a knife .
Prick the base of each tartlet with a fork , place a disk of parchment paper and cover with ceramic baking beads (you can also use dried legumes for this operation) , and proceed with blind baking. Bake the tartlets in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 15 minutes, then take them out , remove the ceramic beads, and continue baking for another 5 minutes.
In the meantime, take the shortcrust pastry scraps and knead them together with the previously set aside dough. Roll out the dough again between two sheets of parchment paper until it is about 1/6 inch thick and cut out disks about 3.15 inches in diameter . Transfer them to a baking tray lined with parchment paper and carve out both the mouth and the eyes . Bake these as well in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 15 minutes.
Once the tartlets have cooled, fill them with the cream and place a cookie on top of each tartlet . Decorate with a mint leaf, a cinnamon stick , and serve your sweet Jack O’Lantern tartlets!
Store the sweet Jack O’Lantern tartlets in the refrigerator for up to 1-2 days, well covered!
Freezing is not recommended!

