name:
Pumpkin and Chocolate Cake
ingredients:
Pumpkin: 21.2oz(600 g)
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(300 g)
Nut flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Vegetable oil: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 3
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1pinch
Baking powder: 2tsp(10 g)
Dark chocolate: 8.5oz(240 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(120 ml)
Chinese Lantern fruits: 2.6oz(75 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The arrival of autumn with its delightful crisp air sparks the desire to indulge in a warm and aromatic cup of tea accompanied by some treats like our pumpkin and chocolate cake. This dessert with its orange hues and silky Ganache cream decoration is the perfect companion for October afternoons, but it could also become a delicious themed cake to crown your Halloween menu! Rich and substantial, the pumpkin and chocolate cake brings with it enveloping scents and aromas that will sweep away the nostalgia of summer with its ice creams in one bite. Gather your dearest friends and indulge in an irresistible guilty pleasure... with pumpkin !
To prepare the pumpkin and chocolate cake, clean the pumpkin by removing the internal seeds and skin, then cut the pulp into cubes , you will get about 480 grams (17 oz). Transfer it into a food processor with blades and blend until you get a puree .
Separately, in a large bowl, sift the all-purpose flour and baking powder , then also add the hazelnut flour .
Add a pinch of salt and mix the dry ingredients. Now pour the eggs into a stand mixer fitted with a whisk (alternatively, you can whip the mixture with electric beaters) . Pour in half of the sugar
and the vanilla extract (alternatively, you can use vanilla essence or the seeds of 1 vanilla pod). Start whipping everything, and when the mixture becomes light, add the other half of the sugar . Continue whipping until it is foamy and soft, then also incorporate the vegetable oil in a stream
Lower the speed of the mixer, and when the oil is completely absorbed, add the dry ingredients one tablespoon at a time until completely incorporated . The mixture will be a bit dense. Now add the pumpkin puree and mix with a spatula from bottom to top so as not to deflate the mixture.
Then coarsely chop the chocolate and also add it to the mixture , mixing gently always from bottom to top with the spatula. Grease a 24 cm (9.45 inches) diameter baking pan with vegetable oil and pour the mixture inside . Level with a spatula to even out the surface. Bake the cake in a preheated static oven at 338°F for 60 minutes, placing the pan in the lower part of the oven.
Meanwhile, prepare the ganache: heat the cream and as soon as it reaches a simmer, turn off the heat and pour it over the chopped dark chocolate . Stir to melt the chocolate well
Now whip the ganache: place the bowl on another bowl where you have put some ice so it cools faster without losing consistency and shine ; then whip the mixture with a whisk until completely cooled (23-24). It should turn "milk chocolate" color.
Once the cake is baked, gently unmold it while still warm and immediately garnish it with the ganache cream, spreading it with a spatula to create a wavy pattern. Taking advantage of its warmth will make it easier to garnish, otherwise, you will struggle to spread the chocolate! Finish decorating the pumpkin and chocolate cake by placing the physalis in the center .
The pumpkin and chocolate cake keeps under a glass dome for up to 2-3 days. It is possible to freeze the baked cake without the chocolate ganache.
As an alternative to vanilla extract, you can use orange or lemon zest.

