name:
Zuppa Imperiale (Italian Imperial Soup)
ingredients:
Eggs: 7.8oz(220 g)- about 4 medium
Semolina: ¾cup(135 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3oz(90 g)
Butter: 5.3tbsp(75 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Meat broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 3 h 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Once again, tradition suggests a dish that is as simple as it is tasty: zuppa imperiale. A dish that comes from Emilia Romagna, but there is also a similar version in the Marche region called pasta reale. The important name certainly doesn't deceive the expectations: a rich and hearty soup prepared with semolina and Parmesan bites immersed in a broth that envelops them with flavor. These soft yellow cubes have always been a traditional holiday dish, like Christmas and Easter, but we invite you to rediscover it as a comfort food, perfect for cold winter days when soups and broths dominate, and we want nothing more than a warm hug to warm us up! If you decide to serve it for Easter, we recommend serving the Torta degli addobbi as a dessert for a traditional menu.
Discover another traditional soup: Stracciatella alla romana .
To make the zuppa imperiale, start by preparing the broth : wash and peel the vegetables and place them in a large, high-edged pot with the oil. Season with whole peppercorns and cloves. Add the meat and cover with 4 quarts of water, let it cook over medium-high heat for about 2 hours, until the broth reduces by about half. Then add the remaining quart of water and let it cook for another hour on low heat. At the end of cooking , strain the broth through a fine-mesh sieve .
Save the meat and vegetables for the boiled dish and salt the broth . Now focus on the dough: in a saucepan, melt the butter over low heat and set it aside (5-6).
In a bowl, pour the semolina and grated Parmigiano Reggiano , add the beaten eggs , the melted butter , and salt,
season with grated nutmeg and mix everything with a whisk to combine the ingredients .
Butter a 12x8 inch baking dish and line it with parchment paper , transfer the dough into the dish and level the surface with the back of a spoon to compact it as best as possible .
Bake the mixture in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 35 minutes. Once cooked, take the mixture out of the oven and let it cool , then turn the baking dish over on a cutting board to unmold the block . Cut it into strips first
and then into cubes of about 1/2 inch (19-20). Pour the hot broth into a plate, add the semolina cubes and serve your zuppa imperiale .
It is recommended to consume the zuppa imperiale immediately; alternatively, you can store it without broth for a couple of days in the refrigerator. It is possible to freeze the already portioned cubes.
A tasty variation of this dish includes the addition of minced mortadella to the dough, a real treat!

