name:
Pappardelle with Wild Boar Ragù
ingredients:
Egg pappardelle pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Boar: 1.1lbs(500 g)- ground
Tomato purée: 1.6cups(375 g)
Red wine: ¼cup(50 g)
Onions: 1.8oz(50 g)
Celery: 1.4oz(40 g)
Carrots: 1.8oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)-
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 1sprig
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 4 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Pappardelle with wild boar ragù are part of the culinary tradition of the Maremma region of Tuscany... flavorful and appetizing, they encapsulate the authentic taste of the past. Compared to the classic Bolognese ragù , wild boar ragù has a stronger and more distinctive note, thanks to its slightly gamey flavor. After long hours of cooking, this fine meat will become tender, and it will be hard to resist the aroma of freshly made ragù! But what happens when pappardelle meet this amazing sauce? Their union creates one of the most succulent main dishes of the Tuscan tradition. The rough and porous egg pasta sheet absorbs the game ragù to release it with every bite! So what are you waiting for? Let yourself be enveloped by the scents and rustic flavor of pappardelle with wild boar ragù.
To prepare pappardelle with wild boar ragù, start by making the sauce. Trim and peel the carrot with a vegetable peeler , also clean the celery of its outer strings, and peel both the garlic and onion. Wash and finely chop everything, keeping the garlic whole (2-3).
Pour the oil into a thick-bottomed pot and add the chopped carrots , celery , and onion .
Also add the garlic in large pieces (so you can remove it more easily at the end of cooking) and let everything stew for about ten minutes on low heat . Add the minced wild boar , chopped rosemary, and bay leaves .
Raise the heat slightly and let everything brown for another 10 minutes, stirring with a spatula , to cook the meat evenly. At this point, deglaze with red wine , and only when the alcohol has completely evaporated, add the tomato puree .
Salt , pepper, and let cook covered for about 3 and a half hours on low heat, then remove the lid and let the ragù dry out for another 30 minutes . Cook your pappardelle in plenty of boiling, salted water to taste .
In the meantime, transfer the ragù to a large pot, drain the pasta, and pour it into the pan with the sauce , stir until everything is well combined , and serve your pappardelle with wild boar ragù still hot .
Store the pappardelle with wild boar ragù in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to 1-2 days. If you used all fresh ingredients, only the ragù can be frozen.
Cook the ragù on low heat, and for a long time to allow all the flavors to blend perfectly.

