name:
Apple Crumble
ingredients:
Golden delicious apples: 1.7lbs(750 g)
Brown sugar: ⅓cup(70 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp
Butter: 4.6oz(130 g)- cold from the fridge
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Sugar: ½cup(120 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for the crumble and the marinating time for the apples

instructions:
Apple crumble is an English dessert that is part of the home tradition. Its rustic taste and ease of preparation have made it famous and much loved around the world. Two inseparable layers of goodness: a soft and juicy base of baked apples , which evokes the flavors of oven-baked apples , and a crunchy shell with a hint of cinnamon that characterizes the typical "crumbly" texture, from the English word crumble, which makes this dessert unique! The crumble has always inspired countless variations with other fruits such as cherries , Peach Crumble , rhubarb, but it can also be made in a savory version like vegetable crumble ! We recommend serving the apple crumble warm or lukewarm, accompanied by a delicious scoop of vanilla ice cream!
Discover a delight with caramel and zabaglione to enrich the Dessert with Annurca Apples and Zabaglione as a dessert!
If you love homemade apple desserts, don't miss our microwave baked apples !
To prepare the apple crumble, pour the flour, the sugar , the cold butter in pieces , and the cinnamon powder into a bowl.
Knead vigorously with your hands and form a dough ball , wrap it with plastic wrap , and place it in the fridge for at least 1 hour.
Now take care of the apples: cut them into 4 parts , remove the seeds and the peel , and cut each slice into half-centimeter slices .
In a bowl, squeeze half a lemon and pour the apples in , mix and season them with brown sugar and cinnamon .
Let them macerate for 30 minutes . Then take oven-safe cocottes with a diameter of 3.5 inches . Pour 2 tablespoons of apples inside, also adding the juice formed at the bottom of the bowl .
Take the pastry dough and grate it with a grater with large holes directly above the cocottes . Now bake the crumbles in a static oven at 400°F for 20 minutes or until golden brown on the surface. Remove your crumbles from the oven and let them cool slightly before serving .
Apple crumble can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days. It can be frozen after baking.
Instead of cinnamon powder, try flavoring the apples with cardamom powder for a more unusual and pungent touch!

