name:
Baked Tagliatelle Nests
ingredients:
Tagliatelle pasta: 11.6oz(330 g)
Tomato purée: 3cups(700 g)
Sausage: 5.3oz(150 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: 5sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Fior di latte mozzarella cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Basil: to taste
Water: 2.1cups(500 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Baked tagliatelle nests are a perfect main course to prepare for Sunday lunch. Alongside traditional dishes, we present a recipe that evokes classic flavors with an original twist. The sauce enriched with sausage, transformed into succulent meatballs, will make you fall in love. Unlike baked pasta , tagliatelle nests do not need to be boiled beforehand: they will cook directly in the oven in the sauce, becoming even more flavorful. To make this pasta dish more enticing, just add chunks of Fiordilatte mozzarella and grated Parmigiano Reggiano, which in the oven will give a gratin and stringy touch.
Discover other delicious variations of this recipe:
To prepare the tagliatelle nests, pour a drizzle of oil, garlic, and thyme sprigs into a saucepan and let it heat over low heat . Crumble the sausage by hand to form 1/2-inch (1 cm) balls more easily . Remove the herbs from the base and add the meatballs .
Sauté the meatballs over high heat .  When well-sealed, remove the sausage and set aside , pour in the tomato sauce and 17.6 oz (500 ml) of water.
Add a pinch of salt, cover with the lid and cook over medium heat for half an hour. After the time has passed, add the meatballs and let them cook for just a few minutes. Meanwhile, cut the fiordilatte into pieces .
Pour the sauce into a baking dish that measures 9 inches (23 cm) at the base and 11 inches (27 cm) at the top. Arrange the tagliatelle nests , cover with more sauce and meatballs .
Sprinkle the surface with the fiordilatte mozzarella pieces and grated Parmigiano Reggiano . Bake in a preheated convection oven at 390°F (200°C) for about 20 minutes. At the end of cooking, let it cool for a few minutes and serve with basil if desired.
Baked tagliatelle nests can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day. They can be frozen after cooking.
If you want an extra touch of aroma and flavor, add rosemary to the sauté. If you prefer a sweeter note, replace garlic with finely chopped onion. Instead of mozzarella, you can use Caciocavallo cheese.

