name:
Crispy Smashed Brussels Sprouts
ingredients:
Brussels sprouts: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Barbecue sauce: 4tbsp(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Maple syrup: 1tbsp(15 g)
Lemon juice: to taste
Cornstarch: 1tsp- (optional)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peeled tomatoes: 1cup(250 g)- San Marzano
Bread: 1.1oz(30 g)- crumb
Lemon juice: ½
Brown sugar: 1tsp
Paprika: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Tabasco®: to taste
Garlic: 1clove- (optional)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The Brussels sprouts, let's be honest, are not always appealing to most people. We'll make you change your mind with this version; you'll find them irresistible! Smashed Brussels sprouts are a tasty and original idea made using the same technique as smashed potatoes : after a brief boiling, the sprouts are roughly smashed and brushed with a barbecue-flavored glaze before being baked to obtain a delicious caramelized crust. Perfect as a side dish, smashed Brussels sprouts are also great as an appetizer served with a dipping sauce: we propose a winter variant of the Spanish salmorejo, try it and let us know!
Also check out these recipes:
To make the smashed Brussels sprouts, first wash and trim the sprouts by removing the base and any outer leaves . Plunge the sprouts into a pot of boiling salted water and cook for 8 minutes. Drain the sprouts and let them cool in a colander .
In the meantime, prepare the glaze: in a small bowl, pour the barbecue sauce, maple syrup , oil , a splash of lemon juice , salt, and pepper.
If you want a thicker consistency, add the cornstarch , then mix well. Place the sprouts on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and greased with oil, spaced apart. Smash the sprouts with the bottom of a glass or a glass jar, being careful to flatten them without breaking them . Brush the smashed sprouts with the glaze, making sure to cover the edges as well . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 25 minutes.
While the sprouts are baking, you can prepare the accompanying sauce: pour the peeled tomatoes into a jug, then break the bread crumbs with your hands . Add the lemon juice and paprika .
Add the brown sugar , salt, and pepper. If desired, you can also add a garlic clove. Start blending with an immersion mixer , pouring the oil in a thin stream .
When you reach the right consistency, garnish with a parsley leaf , a drizzle of oil, and a few drops of Tabasco. Remove the sprouts from the oven and let them cool slightly before removing them from the baking sheet with a spatula. Garnish the smashed Brussels sprouts with flaky salt and serve them with the winter salmorejo !
It is recommended to consume the smashed Brussels sprouts immediately, or alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended. The winter salmorejo can be served immediately or stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days: it will be even more flavorful the next day!
You can also cook the smashed Brussels sprouts in a pan over medium heat with a generous drizzle of oil, for 3-4 minutes per side.
As an alternative to maple syrup, you can use a bit of brown sugar. If you prefer to omit the glaze, you can simply season the smashed sprouts with oil and salt and serve them as a side dish.
For the salmorejo: paprika can be replaced with a pinch of chili pepper, while Tabasco can be omitted. For a stronger flavor, you can add a garlic clove!

