name:
Meatball Stew
ingredients:
Sausage: 0.9lb(400 g)
Ground beef: 0.7lb(300 g)
Ground veal: 10.6oz(300 g)
Stale bread: 1cup(100 g)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Eggs: 2
Parsley: 1bunch
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Potatoes: 0.6lb(250 g)
Peas: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Red onions: 5.3oz(150 g)
Vegetable broth: 0.8cup(200 g)
White wine: 2.5oz(70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The meatballs embody the concept of comfort food, symbolizing the warmth of homemade cooking and the guarantee of a meal prepared with simple and genuine ingredients. The stewed meatballs we propose here are no exception: soft and tasty, they will surprise you with their simple goodness that recalls timeless rustic flavors. The meatballs are prepared in the classic way: based on mixed ground meat and enriched with Parmigiano Reggiano cheese and the fresh aroma of parsley. After being browned in a pan to obtain a crispy golden exterior, they are combined with a rich stew sauce with potatoes, onions, and peas. This double cooking method ensures that the meatballs remain tender and succulent, while the flavors blend perfectly to create a tasty and satisfying main course, perfect for everyday menus.
Discover other delicious variations of classic homemade meatballs:
To prepare the meatball stew, first cut the bread into pieces and soak it in a bowl with milk ; let it soften while you continue with the recipe. In another large bowl, add the ground veal, beef, and sausage removed from its casing . Add salt and pepper.
Add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese , chopped parsley , well-squeezed bread, and 2 eggs .
Knead with your hands to obtain a compact and uniform mixture . Take about 1.75 oz of mixture at a time and form meatballs, rounding them between your palms .
Place them on a tray lined with parchment paper; with these quantities, you will get about 26 meatballs . Heat a swirl of oil in a pan, and when it starts to sizzle, place the meatballs ensuring they are all in contact with the bottom of the pan . Let them brown until golden .
Then turn them and cook them on the other side as well . When they are well browned on both sides, remove them from the pan and set them aside. Peel the potatoes .
Cut them into cubes . Clean and coarsely slice the red onion . Now heat the pan again with the meatball cooking base, add the potatoes .
Add the onions , a pinch of salt, and then deglaze with white wine . Let the alcohol evaporate, then cover with the lid and cook for 15 minutes .
Then add the peas and the meatballs , mix gently and pour in the hot broth .
Cover again with the lid and cook for another 5 minutes. The meatball stew is ready , serve them hot !
Meatball stew can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze them after cooking.
Instead of milk, you can use water to soften the bread.
To cook the meatballs, you can use vegetable or meat broth, or simply hot water.
You can make smaller or larger meatballs, depending on your taste: the important thing is that they are all the same size to ensure even cooking!

