name:
Puff Pastry Cannoli with Custard Cream
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1lb(460 g)- (2 rectangular rolls)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Egg yolks: 5tbsp(75 g)- (approximately 5)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Sugar: ½cup(120 g)
Cornstarch: 0.3cup(40 g)
Nut flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 32 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
The puff pastry cannoli with custard cream are classic sweets of Italian pastry, indispensable in a well-assorted tray of mini pastries, for a birthday buffet and many other events! Among the counter delicacies, they are the most loved for their delicious shell of crispy puff pastry wrapped in a spiral, generously filled with delicate and delicious custard cream . A true explosion of sweetness at the first bite, an timeless temptation that doesn't fear trends and that you can prepare today with our easy recipe that uses ready-made puff pastry. The custard cream, on the other hand, is easily homemade. Making these exquisite cannoli is really simple and you can take inspiration from this basic preparation to also experiment with savory versions, such as those with Savory puff pastry rolls with goat cheese and bacon or the Spring cones with vegetables, to serve as a tempting appetizer.
Enrich your buffet with more homemade pastries:
To prepare the puff pastry cannoli with custard cream, start with the latter: heat the milk in a small saucepan, just to the point of boiling. In another pan, mix the egg yolks with the sugar using a spatula until you get a homogeneous mixture. Add the cornstarch and mix again to fully incorporate it.
Flavor with vanilla extract . Now pour a little hot milk into the egg yolk, sugar, and cornstarch mixture to temper and mix. Then pour in the remaining milk, mix, and return to low heat . Bring to a boil, stirring often .
Once boiling, remove from heat , pour the cream into a low and wide baking dish, cover immediately with plastic wrap in contact , let it cool first outside the fridge and then place it in the fridge for at least 1 hour. Take care of the cannoli: take the puff pastry, unroll it and cut out strips of 1/2 inch . You should get 32 cannoli
Roll the strips around the appropriate oven-safe cylinders, which have a diameter of 1/2 inch . Adhere the dough well and seal the ends with light pressure. Sprinkle the surface with powdered sugar . Bake the cannoli in a static oven preheated to 390°F for 15 minutes. Then switch to grill mode for another 3-5 minutes or until golden brown .

Once baked, take the cannoli out of the oven and let them cool, then remove the cylinder and place them on a tray . Transfer the custard cream to a piping bag without a nozzle and fill the inside of the pastries .
Once all the pastries are filled , cover the ends with hazelnut flour . The puff pastry cannoli with custard cream are ready to be served .
Store the puff pastry cannoli with custard cream in the refrigerator for about 2 days, although once filled they will tend to absorb the moisture from the cream, progressively losing their crispness. You can store the baked but unfilled cannoli in a tin box for 4-5 days, and then fill them at the moment: this way, the cannoli will be as crispy as if just made!
To extract the cannoli more easily, gently squeeze the cylinder.
For a more intense flavor, add lemon and orange zest to the custard cream.
It is possible to close the ends of the cannoli also with chopped almonds or pistachios.

