name:
Stracciatella alla Romana
ingredients:
Hanger steak: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Celery: 1rib
Potatoes: 1
Carrots: 1
White onions: ½
Datterino tomatoes: 2
Fine salt: to taste
Eggs: 4
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 4spoonfuls
Lemon juice: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Meat broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + the time required to prepare the meat broth

instructions:
Stracciatella alla romana is a savory and hearty soup... a simple and humble dish of Lazio origin that is also prepared in other regions, such as Umbria and Marche, with small variations. The recipe we are proposing today was prepared by Claudio and Fabrizio Gargioli of Armando al Pantheon , a historic restaurant in the heart of Rome where you can savor traditional Roman cuisine. This nutritious soup is made with meat broth and a mixture of eggs and Parmigiano Reggiano that, when plunged into the boiling broth, turns into soft and flavorful flakes... a few drops of lemon will be the secret ingredient to add a slightly acidic note that will balance the taste. And with the meat used for the broth, you can prepare another delicious traditional recipe: boiled meat alla Picchiapò . What better occasion to evoke local culinary traditions than holiday lunches? Especially at Easter and Christmas, stracciatella is a must on the tables of central Italy. Once the holidays are over, stracciatella alla romana will warm you up on cold winter days, a comfort food from the past that is still very current today!
Here are other soups and stews not to be missed:
To prepare the stracciatella alla romana, put the peeled vegetables into a pot full of cold water: the carrot, the celery stalk, the cherry tomatoes , and the potato . Peel the onion and add half of it .
Add the meat . Season with coarse salt , turn on the heat, and let it boil for 2 hours .
Then remove the meat that you can enjoy as a second course by slicing it. Strain the broth and take a quart of it. Put it back on the stove and keep it warm. Meanwhile, break the eggs into a bowl, add a pinch of salt , and beat with a whisk.
Add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano and mix again with the whisk . Then add a few drops of lemon juice .
Finally, add some finely chopped parsley and mix again with the whisk . Pour the mixture into the boiling broth .
Stir with the whisk and cook for 1-2 minutes, on high heat without losing the boil. Then turn off the heat and let it rest for another minute. You will immediately see that the eggs will appear 'shredded' . Serve your stracciatella , very hot.
Stracciatella alla romana is a dish to be consumed immediately. Storage and freezing are not recommended after cooking. If you prefer, you can prepare the broth in advance.
If you prefer, you can omit the lemon juice. To flavor it, you can also add nutmeg or grated lemon zest.

