name:
Stuffed Calzone
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- w 2890-290
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Water: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Fine salt: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Radicchio: 6.3oz(180 g)
Fior di latte mozzarella cheese: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 14.1oz(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 15 hours of rising

instructions:
The stuffed calzone is a homemade treat second only to pizza! This recipe combines the art of pizza dough with a combination of melty and flavorful ingredients to discover at the first bite. To start, you will need to prepare a perfect dough that will be stuffed and baked in the oven, unlike traditional fried calzones . The secret to a good calzone starts here, but the filling is what makes it truly special: we were inspired by the winter season choosing radicchio with its typical bitter notes to accompany the gorgonzola, ensuring an irresistibly creamy touch. Let yourself be tempted by our stuffed calzone with gorgonzola and radicchio and have fun varying the flavors with the most tantalizing fillings, here are some ideas:
To prepare the stuffed calzone, start with the dough: in a bowl, pour the flour, crumbled fresh yeast , and almost all the indicated water . Begin mixing with a spoon and add the salt .
Continue mixing, adding water as needed for the dough . Once the ingredients come together, start kneading by hand , form a dough ball, and transfer it to a floured surface .
Continue kneading until you get a smooth dough ball , place it in a bowl , cover with plastic wrap, and let it rise for 1 hour at room temperature, then transfer it to the refrigerator for 12 hours. Retrieve the risen dough .
Divide it into 6 dough balls of the same weight (about 9.5 oz each). Place them in a proofing tray , cover with a lid, and let them rise for 2 hours at room temperature. Meanwhile, prepare the filling: cut the radicchio into strips .
Cut the mozzarella into sticks and let it drain in a colander. Retrieve the risen dough balls , roll them out on a floured surface .
You can roll them out by hand or with a rolling pin; you should obtain discs about 12 inches in diameter. Fill with gorgonzola, radicchio , and mozzarella .
Fold in half and carefully seal the edge. Sprinkle the surface with oil and Parmigiano Reggiano DOP .
Finally, season with black pepper to taste . Preheat the baking stone for 30 minutes. Bake in a preheated static oven at 480°F, then bake the calzone for 15 minutes . Remove from the oven and serve the stuffed calzone hot .
We recommend consuming the stuffed calzone as soon as it's ready and hot. If you have leftovers, you can store them in the fridge and reheat them in the oven before serving.
If you don't have proofing trays, you can use a baking sheet covered with another baking sheet of the same size and wrapped in plastic wrap to keep the dough balls protected from the air.

