name:
Pulled Pork
ingredients:
Pork shoulder: 11lbs(5 kg)
Mustard: 2tbsp(30 g)
Smoked paprika: 1.8oz(50 g)
Sweet Paprika: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Muscovado sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Fine salt: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Garlic powder: 7tsp(20 g)- No remarks
White pepper: 2tsp(10 g)
Powdered coriander: ½tsp(3 g)
Oregano: ½tsp(3 g)- dried
Pepper: 1tsp(5 g)- cayenne
Ground anise: 0.4tsp(2 g)
Ketchup: 1.3cups(300 g)
Apple cider vinegar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: ½tsp(3 g)
Black pepper: ½tsp(3 g)
Powdered ginger: ½tsp(2 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 h
Serving: 12
Cost: Average

instructions:
Originating from the southern United States, it has gained immense popularity worldwide, especially among street food lovers: we're talking about pulled pork, the shredded pork that stars in one of the most famous American sandwiches! Characterized by tender and succulent meat, pulled pork is traditionally slow-cooked on a barbecue for several hours using a technique that imparts a pleasantly smoky note. Its unmistakable flavor, on the other hand, comes from both the mix of spices and aromas with which it is coated before cooking, the so-called dry rub , and the barbecue sauce that is usually added after shredding. Pulled pork is typically paired with coleslaw , the classic cabbage and carrot salad, and enjoyed inside a soft burger bun , but if you prefer, it is also excellent served on its own for an unforgettable all-American dinner!
Also, try the chicken variant, pulled chicken!
To make pulled pork, first prepare the rub : take a large jar and pour in the sweet and smoked paprika , muscovado sugar , and fine salt .
Add the garlic powder , white pepper , and ground coriander .
Finally, add the dried oregano , cayenne pepper , and ground anise .
Mix all the spices well to obtain a homogeneous blend ; if necessary, you can also sift it. Now take the pork shoulder, add the mustard and spread it with your hands over the entire surface, both top and bottom, to create a thin layer .
Then sprinkle the meat with the rub , making sure to cover it completely . Meanwhile, light the barbecue and set it up for indirect cooking .
Pour the charcoal into one half of the barbecue and place an aluminum tray in the other half to collect the meat's juices , then position the pork shoulder on the grill in the area without direct heat .
Set the air vents to achieve a chamber temperature around 300°F and proceed with smoking . Cook with the lid on for at least a couple of hours or until the rub has formed a crust, the so-called bark . At this point, transfer the meat to an aluminum tray and wrap it all in foil. Place the tray back on the barbecue and continue cooking for another 6-8 hours, ensuring the chamber temperature remains between 265-300°F. You can check that the meat is cooked by measuring the internal temperature, which should reach 206-208°F.
After the cooking time, drain the cooking liquid that has formed in the tray and remove the bones with kitchen tongs , then shred the meat using just 2 forks , leaving a few whole pieces .
Prepare the sauce: pour the ketchup into a bowl along with the apple cider vinegar , pepper, salt , and ground ginger .
Mix well and add the sauce to the shredded meat . Stir to combine the seasoning evenly .
Now you can enjoy your pulled pork on its own or use it to make a fantastic sandwich with the indispensable coleslaw !
Pulled pork can be stored in the refrigerator for 5 days in an airtight container; before serving, you can reheat it in the oven, microwave, or in a pan with a little added water.
It is recommended to season only the meat that will be consumed and to store the leftover meat without seasoning.
The perfect cut of meat for pulled pork is the Boston butt , an American cut that includes a portion of the pork shoulder and neck. For this reason, pork shoulder is usually used in Italy, but alternatively, you can also choose the neck: keep in mind that the cooking time will vary based on the weight of the meat.
You can customize the rub by adding cumin, mustard powder, or dehydrated onion.
Try replacing the classic burger bun with a traditional Greek Pita made from scratch!
If you have a charcoal barbecue, you can use the snake or minion technique.
If you don't have a barbecue, you can also make pulled pork in a home oven: prepare the pork shoulder following the same recipe instructions, then cook in a convection oven at 300°F for a couple of hours. After this time, wrap it all in foil and continue cooking in a static mode at 265-300°F for another 6-8 hours, until it reaches an internal temperature of 206-208°F.

