name:
Paccheri with provola and shrimp
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Shrimps: 1.1lbs(500 g)- red
Smoked provola cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 14.1oz(400 g)
White wine: 3tbsp(40 g)
Water: 1.3cups(300 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare the paccheri with provola and shrimp, first, take care of cleaning the red shrimp. Using your hands, gently detach the legs and remove the shell. Then, with a slight pressure, remove the head . By pulling gently, you should also remove the intestine; if not, you can eliminate the black filament using a toothpick. Collect all the shells and heads of the shrimp in a bowl .
In another bowl, place the cleaned shrimp and store them in the fridge well covered until use. Prepare a quick bisque. In a saucepan, pour a drizzle of oil and the shrimp scraps .
Toast them well, crushing them with a wooden spoon . After 3 minutes, deglaze with the white wine , and when the alcohol has evaporated, add 300 g (10.5 oz) of water . Cook for about 20 minutes.
In the meantime, wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half . Also, grate the smoked scamorza , and set it aside .
After 20 minutes, filter the bisque , to collect the broth in a bowl . Bring the water to boil for the pasta and salt it. Now, in a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, a garlic clove, and a few basil leaves .
Let it flavor and add the cherry tomatoes . Salt them and sauté until they wilt, then add the bisque and cook for 20 minutes.
When about 10 minutes are left, you can plunge the paccheri into the water that will now be boiling . Take the shrimp and divide them in half . Pour a drizzle of oil into a pan, heat it, and add the shrimp . Sauté briefly, just a couple of minutes.
Transfer the shrimp to the pan with the cherry tomatoes , add a ladle of cooking water , and the paccheri that you have drained al dente .
Sauté everything and add more cooking water if necessary . At this point, turn off the heat, add the grated provola , and stir the pasta until the provola is completely melted. Plate, decorate with basil leaves, and serve it still hot !
We recommend consuming the paccheri immediately after preparation. Alternatively, they can be stored in the fridge for 1 day. Both the sauce and the bisque can be frozen.
Brandy can also be used to deglaze the bisque.
To make an even more flavorful bisque, celery, carrot, and onion can be added when toasting the shells.
For a finer result, the tomato sauce can be blended.

