name:
Vegan Bechamel
ingredients:
Rice milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Vegetable margarine: 7.1oz(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Bechamel is one of the most widely used base sauces in cooking, all over the world, not just in Italy. It's the star of many recipes for seasoning lasagna, casseroles, and gratin side dishes, transforming these dishes into something truly special. To give everyone the chance to enjoy it, we offer you a vegan version of bechamel that will allow you to achieve the same consistency as the original: the perfect homemade bechamel! There will be no animal products among the ingredients; in fact, butter and cow's milk will be replaced with margarine and rice milk. You'll fall in love with its velvety texture... make this vegan bechamel and use it to enrich your vegetables or for a rich and hearty main course like Vegan lasagna , perfect for a vegan Sunday lunch!
To prepare the vegan bechamel, start by pouring the milk into a pot . Add the nutmeg and bring it to a simmer. Meanwhile, transfer the margarine to another fairly large pot and let it melt over low heat.
Once melted, add the flour while stirring continuously until you get a hazelnut-colored roux. Once the milk is hot, take a ladle of it and pour it into the roux, stirring continuously .
Add the hot milk little by little until it's all used up. Then, season with salt and pepper .
Continue to cook for 5-6 minutes until the bechamel thickens . At this point, transfer it to a bowl to stop the cooking and use it as you prefer .
If you don't use the bechamel immediately, pour it into a bowl and cover it with plastic wrap in contact with the surface to prevent a skin from forming. Once cooled, the bechamel can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2-3 days. To make it smooth and creamy again, just whisk it with an electric mixer; if necessary, you can add a little milk to make it more fluid during mixing. The bechamel can be frozen for about 1 month.
Instead of rice milk, you can use soy milk or almond milk. As an alternative to margarine, you can use extra virgin olive oil.

