name:
Shortcrust Pastry without Butter
ingredients:
Extra virgin olive oil: 7tbsp(100 g)-
Type 00 flour: 3 ½cups(430 g)
Eggs: 4oz(110 g)- (approximately 2)
Egg yolks: 1.4tbsp(20 g)- (about 1)
Baking powder: 1tsp(5 g)-
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Potato starch: 10tbsp(150 g)
Water: 1 ⅓tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour of dough resting

instructions:
The butter-free shortcrust pastry is the recipe you've been waiting for! How many times have you asked us if it was possible to replace butter with oil in the preparation of traditional shortcrust pastry ? So many times... and after just as many responses, we finally propose the recipe for a fragrant butter-free shortcrust! It's a perfect base for preparing Butter-free tart , Butter-free cookies , or tartlets suitable for those who are lactose intolerant or simply for those seeking easily digestible desserts that don't leave that unpleasant feeling of heaviness! In this case, butter is replaced by extra virgin olive oil, a staple of the Mediterranean diet and universally appreciated for its beneficial qualities and versatility in the kitchen. To avoid too much of the oil's acidic aftertaste, just make sure to choose one with a delicate flavor! Are you ready to explore all the possibilities that butter-free shortcrust pastry offers? Then roll up your sleeves and start kneading! Use it also for a delicious lemon tart !
Discover more shortcrust pastry recipes: Soft shortcrust pastry
To prepare the butter-free shortcrust pastry, first place the whole eggs and the yolk in a large bowl and whisk by hand, then add the water and extra virgin olive oil in a thin stream, without stopping mixing .
Add the powdered sugar gradually and incorporate it by mixing vigorously with the whisk . In the same bowl, sift the flour ,
the potato starch , and the baking powder ; knead by hand to gather all the ingredients .
Now, transfer the dough to a floured surface and continue working vigorously with your hands , until you get a smooth and compact dough . Then wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the fridge for about 1 hour. Your butter-free shortcrust pastry is ready to be used! You can make cookies or a tart, for example!
The butter-free shortcrust pastry can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days. Alternatively, it can be frozen for up to 1 month.
You can flavor your butter-free shortcrust pastry with lemon or orange zest, with the seeds of a vanilla bean, or with cinnamon, depending on how you plan to use it and the filling you choose! This amount of dough is enough for a 9.5-inch diameter tart with a lattice top and an edge.
• How long should it bake and at what temperature?
If you want to make a tart, you can follow the instructions in our Butter-free tart recipe. For cookies, we recommend testing a few pieces first to get the best result.
• Can extra virgin olive oil be replaced with seed oil?
Yes, sunflower seed oil is preferable for a milder taste.
• Why is baking powder added to the dough?
In this case, it helps to make the pastry more crumbly, but it can be omitted if preferred.
• Can granulated sugar be used instead of powdered sugar?
Yes, in the same amount, although granulated sugar will result in a less homogeneous texture.

