name:
Baked Chicken Breast
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.3lbs(600 g)- whole
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: 2sprigs
Mustard: 7tbsp(100 g)
Whole milk: 1tbsp(20 g)
Rosemary: 3sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Are you tired of the usual grilled chicken breast? We suggest a tasty alternative perfect even for those less skilled in the kitchen: baked chicken breast. Such a simple recipe that will surprise you with its delicious result. The result is a soft and creamy chicken breast, with a spicy flavor given by the mustard which keeps the meat tender during cooking and creates a tasty sauce to accompany the sliced breasts. Baked chicken breast is a dish for all seasons to accompany with fresh Spring salad with vegetables and cheeses in spring or with velvety mashed potatoes in the colder months. And if you prefer a richer variant, also try our Baked chicken breast with scamorza , the creamy one with bechamel or try the baked chicken with potatoes and onions or the chicken breast with milk and mushrooms !
To make the baked chicken breast, start by removing the excess fat from the meat with a knife, then divide the breast into two parts by cutting the central part lengthwise and then divide each piece in half to get 4 thick slices. Place the chicken breast slices in a baking dish side by side then season with salt
and ground black pepper . Now spread mustard on the chicken breasts , making sure to coat both sides of the chicken breasts evenly. At this point, also pour in the milk
and season with fresh thyme leaves and rosemary needles . Bake in a preheated static oven at 400°F for 40 minutes or until the chicken is slightly golden on the surface (if using a fan oven, bake at 350°F for about 30 minutes). Your baked chicken breast is ready to be served!
Baked chicken breast can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days in an airtight container. It can be frozen after cooking if you have used fresh ingredients.
Do you like a sweet and sour touch? Add some wildflower honey to the mustard, you'll notice the aroma!

