name:
Pisarei e Fasò
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ½cups(400 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Water: 1.7cups(400 g)- warm
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Yellow onions: 2.1oz(60 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Lard: 2.8oz(80 g)
Dried Borlotti beans: 1 ½cup(220 g)
Tomato purée: 0.9cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: to taste- grated

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low
Note + 12 hours of soaking beans and 1 hour of dough resting

instructions:
The long and fascinating road of Italian flavors brings us with this recipe to discover a territory that enchants at first glance and then irresistibly captivates once its culinary treasures are discovered: we are talking about the Piacenza hills and the recipe we propose is that of pisarei e fasò. Literally pisarei and beans, pisarei e fasò are small dumplings made of flour, breadcrumbs, and water accompanied by a hearty tomato and bean sauce flavored with lard. A recipe with ancient origins: it is said that this pasta shape was born in the Middle Ages with the ingredients that farmers and monks had at their disposal. It seems that pisarei were offered to pilgrims from all over Europe passing along the Via Francigena. One hypothesis about the origin of the name suggests it derives from the Spanish word 'pisar' which means 'to crush,' the gesture used to create the typical central hollow perfect for collecting the sauce. Over time, beans and pancetta were added to the pisarei to make the dish even more nutritious. And they are still prepared this way today! Come and discover our version of the delicious pisarei e fasò!
To prepare pisarei e fasò, start with the borlotti beans. Place them in a large bowl filled with water and soak them for 12 hours or overnight, covered with plastic wrap . After the soaking time, drain and rinse them under running water, then place them in a pot, cover with water , and cook for 30 minutes ; this time will be sufficient because the beans will continue cooking with the sauce later.
Now prepare the pisarei dough: sift the flour into a bowl , then add the breadcrumbs and salt .
Gradually pour in the lukewarm water and knead vigorously to combine the ingredients , forming a compact dough ball
and wrap it in plastic wrap . Let the dough rest in a cool place for 1 hour (outside the fridge is fine). After the resting time, take the dough, divide it into small portions , and from these create ropes approximately 3/8 inch in diameter .
Cut the dough ropes into pieces the size of a bean . With your thumb, press each dumpling to create a hollow inside . The pisarei are ready ; you can spread them on a tray lined with a clean, dry kitchen towel, lightly floured. There is no need to cover them, even if they dry out it will not be a problem.
Now prepare the sauce: peel and finely chop the onion , also chop the lard . Then, in a pot, melt the butter over low heat and sauté the onion ,
then add the chopped lard , stir to flavor, and when the onion has wilted, also add the previously cooked and thoroughly drained beans , cover them with tomato puree and continue cooking the sauce for about 20 minutes. You can adjust the salt and add hot water (or vegetable broth ) if necessary so the sauce does not thicken too much.
When the beans are cooked, bring a large pot of water to a boil, salt to taste and submerge the pisarei and cook them for just a few minutes or until they float to the surface ; then scoop them out with a slotted spoon
directly into the pot with the beans , flavor with grated Grana Padano and serve the pisarei e fasò piping hot with some additional Grana shavings if desired !
You can store the pisarei e fasò in the refrigerator for up to one day. Alternatively, you can freeze the sauce and uncooked pasta separately if you have used fresh ingredients. For the pasta, we recommend spreading the pisarei on a tray, allowing them to firm up for a few hours in the freezer, and then collecting them in pre-portioned food bags for convenience. When needed, you can cook the pisarei directly from frozen.
One variant of this dish includes adding sausage to the sauce, a delightful touch that makes pisarei e fasò even more inviting!

