name:
Roast Beef in Salt Crust
ingredients:
Beef: 1.4lbs(650 g)- cut for roast beef
Coarse salt: 4.4lbs(2 kg)- coarse
Rosemary: 1tsp(5 g)
Bay leaves: 0.2oz(5 g)
Thyme: 1tsp(5 g)
Water: 1oz(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
Here is a second course that is as succulent as it is simple to prepare. You can make it in advance, and it will surely earn you the praise of your guests: roast beef, a typical dish of Anglo-Saxon cuisine. Today we propose preparing it in one of its best forms: roast beef in a salt crust! The tenderest cut is flavored with aromatic herbs and cooked wrapped in a salt shell to keep the meat soft and juicy without using fats. This cooking method is perfect for retaining the moisture and juices of the meat, but especially for allowing it to cook slowly and evenly, penetrating the inside of the roast beef without burning the outside. The coarse salt gives a pleasant saltiness to the preparation without covering its taste. We suggest bringing the baking tray with the roast beef still covered in salt to the table and breaking the crust in front of your friends' eyes to make them... mouth water!
To prepare the roast beef in a salt crust, start by washing and drying the aromatic herbs . Proceed by finely chopping rosemary, bay leaf, and thyme . Then cut the excess fat from the beef . Depending on the chosen meat, you can tie it to give it a more compact shape or leave it as you bought it if the piece is already sufficiently compact.
Massage the meat with the chopped aromatic herbs, rubbing them slightly on the entire surface and ensuring they adhere well on all sides . Now take a baking tray with high edges, and wider than the cut of meat by about 1 inch (2 cm) per side: pour a layer of salt about 1 inch (2 cm) thick on the bottom . Now place the roast beef on the tray and cover it evenly with salt , creating a layer about 1 inch (2 cm) thick on each side, a sort of shell. It is essential to use coarse salt, as fine salt would be excessively absorbed by the meat during cooking.
Moisten the surface of the salt crust with water so that it can harden more during cooking. Finally, bake in a preheated static oven at 390째F (200째C) for 25 minutes (we do not recommend using a fan-assisted oven as it would dry the meat too much and it would not be juicy in the end). Do not open the oven until cooking is finished to prevent the temperature from dropping and ensuring optimal cooking. After the time has elapsed, remove the tray from the oven and let it rest for 10 minutes at room temperature. Then, using spoons or a knife if the crust has become very hard, gently scrape off the coarse salt . Gradually remove all the covering salt .
Then take the roast beef and place it on a cutting board, removing the excess coarse salt if necessary. Then slice it delicately with a sharp knife or, if you prefer thinner slices, with a slicer : it should be pink inside. If you prefer meat not too rare, extend the cooking time by 5 minutes, depending on the weight of the meat you choose. Now your roast beef in a salt crust can be plated and enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the roast beef in a salt crust as soon as it is ready. If there are any leftovers, you can wrap it in aluminum foil and store it in the fridge for 2-3 days.
If you have used fresh and not thawed ingredients, you can also freeze it wrapped in aluminum foil for up to 3 weeks, already portioned. To use it, thaw it at room temperature.
The secret to a perfect roast beef in a salt crust lies in the cooking: for every 1.1 lbs (500 g) of meat, a static oven cooking at 390째F (200째C) for 20 minutes is recommended. We suggest consuming this succulent meat just as it is or, if you prefer, you can season it with lemon oil and some peppercorns, or with a drizzle of balsamic vinegar and flakes of Parmigiano Reggiano.

