name:
Crushed Olives
ingredients:
Green olives: 30oz(850 g)- fresh and plump
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Garlic: 3cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Oregano: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note 8 days of maceration

instructions:
With the recipe for crushed olives, we introduce you to one of the indispensable side dishes that grace the generous tables of Southern Italy! Small pearls imbued with strong flavors and aromas, perfect for whetting your appetite and accompanying succulent dishes during a rich and substantial lunch typical of our southern regions. The fundamental ingredient in this recipe is undoubtedly patience. Day by day, the expertly marinated olives will acquire that unique flavor that makes them so special, making them hard to resist. The time you dedicate to this preparation will be repaid by the appreciation they receive once served. Arm yourself with Peasant bread if you prefer to stick to tradition, or explore new taste horizons by pairing the crushed olives with some multigrain bread, Carrot Bread or Beetroot Bread to make the pairing with these little salty delights even more intriguing.
Check out these recipes with olives:
To prepare the crushed olives, start in the morning as you will need to change the soaking water a couple of times a day, morning and evening. Take the fresh green olives (choose the plumpest and largest ones if possible), beat them with a meat tenderizer to split them in half without breaking them completely if possible and remove the pit . Place them in a large bowl and pour in the water
Until they are completely covered . Cover the bowl with a clean, dry cloth and store the olives in a cool, dry place away from heat sources. You will need to change the water 2 times a day, with an interval of about 8 hours between each change. So, drain the olives from the soaking water
and cover them again with fresh water , place the clean and dry cloth back and store them again in the same way, changing the water twice a day as indicated. Change the water for the olives for 5 days respecting these times. On the sixth day, their color and texture will already be different; drain them
and cover them again with fresh water ; then leave them to rest until the next day. On the seventh day, rinse, salt, and cover again with water; then leave them to rest until the eighth day, when you can drain your crushed olives, which by now will appear quite dark ; rinse them thoroughly under fresh running water
then spread them out on a clean cloth and gently pat them dry . Transfer the crushed olives to a bowl, season with salt and olive oil
then peel the garlic and slice it thinly , halve the fresh chili lengthwise , remove the seeds inside and cut it into thin strips .
Complete the seasoning with the garlic, chili and dried oregano . Mix to flavor and serve your crushed olives as a side dish (or as an appetizer if you prefer) !
It is recommended to store the crushed olives in the refrigerator for a maximum of 5 days in an airtight container. If covered with oil, they can also be kept for up to a week. Freezing is not recommended.
Crushed olives are good consumed as a side dish or alone as an appetizer along with crunchy rustic bread; they are also perfect for flavoring a tomato sauce in a tasty way, or for enriching a fresh mixed salad.

