name:
Spinach Risotto
ingredients:
Vialone nano rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Spinach: 7.1oz(200 g)- fresh
Shallot: 1
Butter: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the time to prepare the vegetable broth

instructions:
To say "spinach" in a child's imagination is to say Popeye , the charming comic strip sailor who gained his strength from a can of spinach... always the same, devoured in one gulp and eaten raw! But do you think his sweet girlfriend Olive Oyl never thought to prepare a spinach-based meal for her favorite sailor? We imagine she did, and surely his favorite dish would have been this spinach risotto! A healthy and nutritious first course, made with one of the most beloved seasonal vegetables, rich not only in flavor and color but also in many properties. Enjoy this spinach risotto and you can count on an immediate Popeye effect!
To prepare the spinach risotto, start by making the vegetable broth. Once it's ready, prepare the soffritto; to do this, peel the shallot and chop it finely . Then transfer 1.5 tbsps of butter into a pan , let it melt over medium heat, and add the shallot . Add a ladle of hot broth and let it wilt for a few minutes, stirring occasionally.
At this point, add the rice , stir , and let it toast for 3-4 minutes. Then add a ladle of broth and continue cooking, stirring and adding more broth only as needed, that is, when you see the rice drying out.
In the meantime, wash the spinach under running water , dry them with a kitchen towel, and set them aside. When there are about 5 minutes left for the rice to cook, adjust the salt to your taste and add the whole spinach .
Finish cooking the rice, stirring often , then turn off the heat and add both the remaining 1.5 tbsps of butter and the grated Parmesan cheese .
Add a pinch of black pepper and stir the spinach risotto off the heat to combine . All that's left is to plate and serve your spinach risotto !
Spinach risotto can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 day, in an airtight container!
To add a creamy note to the dish, try adding 2-3 tablespoons of ricotta or crescenza cheese once cooked, instead of the 1.5 tbsps of butter!

