name:
Savory Pie with Potatoes, Onions, and Cheese
ingredients:
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)- (cold from the fridge)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Water: 2.5oz(70 g)- (iced)
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Marjoram: 2sprigs
Thyme: 3sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Red onions: 8.8oz(250 g)
Asiago cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Eggs: 5- (medium)
Brown sugar: 1spoonful
Vegetable broth: 4spoonfuls
Milk: 2tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
The savory pie with potatoes, onions, and cheese is a rustic and very nutritious dish, ideal to serve as an appetizer or for a buffet. A shell of shortcrust pastry flavored with rosemary, marjoram, and thyme envelops a rich filling of potatoes, red onions, and Asiago cheese, all topped with potato slices arranged in a radial pattern. Tasting this savory pie will be a real delight for the palate: the spices release all their goodness as they add an extra flavor note to the dough, thus creating, together with the other ingredients, a true explosion of flavors. Are you curious to taste it? All that's left is to tie on your apron and get ready to work the dough!
Here are some other tantalizing ideas for making a rustic pie :
To prepare the savory pie with potatoes, onions, and cheese, start with the shortcrust pastry . Put the sifted flour together with the rosemary leaves in a food processor equipped with blades. Season with salt and pepper, and add the thyme and marjoram .
Turn on the blades, then add the cold refrigerator butter cut into pieces . Blend until you get a sandy and floury mixture . Place the mixture on a work surface and make the classic fountain shape in the center. Add the ice water in a thin stream
and start gathering the dough with a fork ; quickly knead all the ingredients by hand to obtain a compact and smooth dough; then form a ball, slightly flatten it, and let it rest for at least 20-30 minutes in the refrigerator wrapped in plastic wrap . Now move on to the filling: grate 2 oz of cheese coarsely, and cut the rest into 1/8 to 1/6 inch cubes and set aside .
Peel the potatoes and cut 7 oz into 1/8 to 1/6 inch cubes and 10 oz into thin slices about 1/16 inch thick , then immerse them in cold water to prevent them from turning brown . Cut the onions into rings and sauté them in a large pan with oil for 2 minutes over moderate heat, setting some aside.
Add the brown sugar , cook for another 2 minutes, pouring in the vegetable broth (alternatively, you can also use the same amount of water) , then add the previously cubed potatoes .
Cook everything for at least 15 minutes over moderate heat, seasoning with salt and pepper and adding another 2 tablespoons of vegetable broth or water . Once ready , turn off the heat and place the filling in a bowl to cool. After the necessary time, remove the shortcrust pastry from the refrigerator, place it on a lightly floured work surface, and roll it out with a rolling pin into a sheet about 1/16 to 1/8 inch thick and 11.5 inches in diameter.
With the help of the rolling pin, place the dough into a 11.5-inch diameter tart pan previously buttered and lined with parchment paper . Press the base and sides with your fingers to adhere the crust to the pan, then use a pastry cutter to trim the excess parts ; save the leftover dough as you can use it for decoration. Put the savory pie in the fridge for at least 20 minutes. In a separate bowl, beat the eggs with a pinch of salt and add the cubed cheese .
Also add the filling you prepared , mixing well with a fork to combine all the ingredients, then pour everything into the tart pan , distributing it evenly .
Blanch the potatoes for 20 seconds in salted hot water, drain them , and place them in cold water to release the starch. Drain them thoroughly and arrange them in a radial pattern, starting from the outer circle and covering the entire filling .
Add the onion you set aside , finally create 2 strands from the leftover shortcrust pastry and braid them to create a cord; place the braid around the tart and brush it with milk .
Finally, add the thyme , the grated cheese , and put it in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 35-40 minutes (or at 356°F for 25-35 minutes in a fan oven). Once ready , turn off, remove from the oven, and serve your savory pie with potatoes, onions, and cheese.
You can store the savory pie with potatoes, onions, and cheese in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. You can freeze it.
Try making this savory pie with blonde onions instead of red ones or with Grana cheese instead of Asiago! This pie will also be excellent with a puff pastry base: you'll be licking your chops!

