name:
Soft Apple Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ½cups(400 g)
Apples: 14.1oz(400 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 7.8oz(220 g)- at room temperature (about 4)
Brown sugar: 1cup(175 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(175 g)
Whole milk: 0.4cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Lime: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low

instructions:
The soft apple cake is a soft and delicious homemade dessert, perfect for breakfast and everyday snacks. There are many types of apples, pleasing everyone, just like apple cakes , but we are sure that this will be one of the best you have ever made because it is incredibly soft! This version is a butterless apple cake , the dough is made soft by adding ricotta, making you want to eat it... still warm! They say an apple a day keeps the doctor away: we endorse this saying and even validate it with our soft apple cake!
Try these delicious variations too:
To prepare the super soft apple cake, start by sifting the room temperature ricotta through a sieve placed inside a bowl , then add the brown sugar and grate the lime zest , keeping the lime for the juice later. Mix the mixture and set aside.
In another bowl, beat the eggs , add a pinch of salt and granulated sugar , and work with an electric mixer for a few minutes until the mixture is slightly puffy. Then add the sugar and ricotta mixture one tablespoon at a time , so the ingredients combine well. Wait for the previous one to be incorporated before adding the next one.
Sift the flour with the baking powder in a bowl and add it, one tablespoon at a time, while the mixer is still running . At this point, the mixture will be quite thick, so thin it by pouring in the room temperature milk in a thin stream .
Turn off the mixer and focus on the apples. Peel them, remove the core , and finally cut them into pieces of 3/8 inch - 3/4 inch and collect them in a bowl. Take the reserved lime, cut it in half
and squeeze the juice . Pour it immediately over the apples so the apples maintain their light color. Mix the apples and add them to the base mixture .
Butter and line a 11-inch diameter pan with parchment paper, then gently pour in the mixture and level it with a spatula or rotate the pan on the counter to distribute the batter evenly . Bake the soft apple cake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 60 minutes (320°F for 50 minutes if using a fan oven). If the surface darkens too much, cover the cake with aluminum foil after 40 minutes of baking. Once baked, remove the cake and let it cool before releasing it and placing it on a wire rack to cool completely. You can serve the soft apple cake dusted with powdered sugar!
Store the soft apple cake under a glass dome for 2-3 days or covered with plastic wrap.
If you prefer, you can flavor the dough with the zest of an untreated lemon, or with the seeds of a vanilla bean. Brown sugar will give the flavor a more rustic touch and a slightly amber color. If you don't have brown sugar, you can replace it with the same amount of granulated sugar.

