name:
Gluten-Free Pizza
ingredients:
Gluten free flour mix: 5cups(700 g)
Water: 2 ¾cups(650 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Gluten free brewer's yeast: 1tbsp(15 g)
Sugar: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(12 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 2cups(400 g)
Pizza mozzarella cheese: 10.6oz(300 g)
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Note + the rising time (approximately 3 h 45 min. total)

instructions:
Do you think a gluten-free pizza can't be as tasty and flavorful as the traditional one? With our recipe, you'll definitely change your mind! A Thick and soft tray pizza baked in the oven and topped like a simple Margherita , which you can easily personalize with your favorite ingredients, taking inspiration from classic recipes like spicy pizza or Capricciosa pizza . The dough with high hydration does not develop the gluten network, so it is advisable to use a stand mixer to handle it more easily. The double rising and the two-stage baking will take care of the rest! Is your mouth watering just looking at it? Then get to work, the gluten-free pizza deserves a taste right away!
Also try these gluten-free leavened recipes:
Discover more delicious Pizza recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the gluten-free pizza, first pour the universal gluten-free flour mix, the water , the dried yeast , the salt, and the sugar into the bowl of a stand mixer.
Also add the oil and attach the paddle . Work with the mixer for 2 minutes, or until the ingredients are combined, then replace the paddle with the dough hook and run the mixer on medium speed for another 2 minutes.
The dough cannot form a gluten network due to the absence of gluten, but it should become uniform . With a wet spatula, detach the dough and transfer it to an oiled bowl , then cover with plastic wrap and let it rise in the turned-off oven with the light on for 3 hours or until it doubles in size .
After the rising time , turn the dough onto a baking tray lined with parchment paper. Oil your hands slightly and gently spread the dough to cover the entire surface of the tray; be careful not to use too much force, or it will tear . Let it rise for 45 minutes, still in the turned-off oven with the light on.
In the meantime, prepare the topping: crush the canned tomatoes with your hands , then season with salt and 2 tablespoons of oil .
After the 45 minutes, spread the topping over the surface of the pizza . Bake in a preheated static oven at 430°F for 20 minutes, on the lower rack . Once baked, remove and transfer the pizza to the oven rack, without the parchment paper. Sprinkle the mozzarella over the tomato .
Add the basil leaves and bake again for 7 minutes with the grill function at maximum power, positioning the rack in the middle-upper part of the oven. Remove from the oven and enjoy your gluten-free pizza cut into slices !
Gluten-free pizza can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
You can freeze it after baking and letting it cool, already cut into slices.
For this recipe, it is recommended to use a stand mixer because the gluten-free dough is very hydrated and working by hand might be challenging.

