name:
Swordfish in Pistachio Crust with Potato Wedges
ingredients:
Swordfish: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (4 steaks, 7 ounces each)
Unsalted pistachios: ½cup(70 g)- (shelled)
Bread: 2.5oz(70 g)- crumb
Lime peel: 1
Thyme: 1sprig
Marjoram: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Potatoes: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Rosemary: 2sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Are you looking for a fish dish that highlights all its flavor, but with a crunchy note? Today we propose swordfish in a pistachio crust with potato wedges, a tasty and valid alternative to the classic grilled swordfish!
The breading, made by blending pistachios together with bread crumbs, creates a fragrant shell around the fish, which enhances its taste and texture without covering the delicate flavor of the swordfish. The swordfish meat will be tender, and thanks to the lime zest, you will add a note of freshness to your meal, enhanced by the aroma of thyme and marjoram! To complete the dish, prepare a classic side dish in an alternative way: bake the potatoes in wedges with the skin on, to achieve a soft interior and a fantastic crispy crust on the outside, which will nicely finish everything. Satisfy your guests' palate by serving your swordfish fillets accompanied by oven-baked potato wedges, and you won't regret it!
Swordfish is a great base for many refined dishes, and if you love this fish, you should definitely try making calamarata with swordfish ragout and for a delicate and fresh pairing, also taste the swordfish carpaccio with green mustard sauce !
To prepare the swordfish in pistachio crust with baked potatoes, start by toasting the pistachios to make them crunchier and more fragrant. Pour the pistachios onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and spread them out evenly (2-3). Then bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for 20 minutes , checking frequently without letting them darken too much.
In the meantime, prepare the potatoes. Wash them well under running water with the skin on to remove any dirt . Then cut them into wedges and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, well spaced apart .
Also cut the garlic into wedges and add it to the potatoes . Add the rosemary needles , salt, pepper, and finally the oil . Bake in a convection oven at 400°F for 50 minutes, until they are golden and crispy!
When there are about ten minutes left, start preparing the breading. Cut the bread crumbs into cubes and put them in a mixer along with the pistachios . Add the grated lime zest, thyme, marjoram, and blend everything together .
Pour the breading into a large baking dish , add salt, pepper, and mix with a spoon . Take the swordfish slices and brush them with oil on both sides .
Then coat each slice in the breading, pressing lightly to make it adhere well . Repeat the same operation for all the fillets and in the meantime heat a pan with a drizzle of oil. Then place the swordfish in the pan .
Cook the swordfish slices for a couple of minutes on each side , take the now crispy potatoes out of the oven , and serve the swordfish fillets in pistachio crust with hot potato wedges !
It is recommended to consume the swordfish in pistachio crust with potato wedges freshly cooked. Alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
When choosing potatoes, try to select ones of the same size to ensure uniform cooking!

