name:
Gluten-Free Cocoa and Peach Roll
ingredients:
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Eggs: 5
Potato starch: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Rice flour: 2tbsp(30 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(35 g)
Honey: 1tsp(5 g)
Salt: 1pinch
Vanilla bean: ½
Lactose free fresh cream: 1cup(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 1.1tbsp(15 g)
Peach: 7.1oz(200 g)
Lemon juice: 2tsp(10 g)
Powdered sugar: 3tbsp(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 8 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low
Note Two hours of rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
If you are looking for a fresh and delicious dessert recipe that takes only 8 minutes to bake, we suggest the gluten-free cocoa and peach roll, a dessert that will be appreciated by those who are intolerant… and not only! A soft cocoa sponge cake, prepared with a mix of gluten-free flours, contains a tasty filling made with lactose-free whipped cream and fresh peach cubes. The aroma of seasonal fruit perfectly matches the intense flavor of unsweetened cocoa and makes this dessert truly irresistible! You can prepare it in advance and enjoy it well chilled on any occasion, for an alternative and more digestible end of meal, or even for your children's snack! This time we wanted to decorate our dessert with a very easy-to-make oblique stripe pattern, which adds a touch of elegance to this simple and genuine roll. By following the basic recipe for the gluten-free sponge cake described here, you can vary the filling according to your imagination: also try the Plum Roll , the Vanilla and Strawberry Roll or the Nutella roll ! And if you are looking for other gluten-free and lactose-free dessert ideas, we suggest the recipe for the Rice boats with fresh red fruits !
To prepare the gluten-free cocoa and peach roll, start with the gluten-free sponge cake. Separate the yolks from the whites; whip the yolks with 100 g (1/2 cup) of sugar and add the honey and the seeds of half a vanilla bean, scraping them out with the tip of a knife .
The yolks should be whipped with a whisk attachment for at least 10 minutes, until you get a very frothy and swollen mixture . Meanwhile, while the yolks are whipping, beat the egg whites with a pinch of salt using an electric mixer; when they start to foam, add the remaining 50 g (1/4 cup) of sugar .
Whip the egg whites until you get a shiny and not too stiff consistency . Then, combine the yolk mixture with the egg white mixture , mixing from bottom to top to avoid deflating them .
At this point, sift the rice flour and potato starch into the bowl. Mix using movements from bottom to top .
Now add the sifted cocoa and mix with a spatula to obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture . Pour it into a baking tray measuring 14.5x12 inches (37x30 cm) lined with parchment paper .
Level the batter with a spatula and bake it in a preheated static oven at 390°F (200°C) for 8 minutes. After the baking time, transfer the sponge cake to a countertop, keeping the parchment paper underneath; sprinkle the surface of the sponge cake with granulated sugar and seal it, still hot, with cling film in contact to retain all the moisture inside and prevent it from breaking during the rolling phase. Let it cool completely and, in the meantime, prepare the filling for the roll. Cut the peaches in half, pit them, and peel them with the help of a small knife .
Cut into not-too-large cubes and transfer them to a bowl; squeeze some lemon juice and pour it over the peaches to prevent them from oxidizing .
Pour the well-chilled lactose-free cream into a stand mixer , add the powdered sugar , and whip it. When the sponge cake is completely cooled, remove the cling film and flip it, with its parchment paper, onto a new sheet of parchment paper; then gently lift the baking parchment paper .
Remove it carefully and proceed with filling the roll by spreading a layer of lactose-free whipped cream . Sprinkle the previously prepared peach cubes on top .
Roll the sponge cake starting from the short side (28-29), then wrap it well with the underlying parchment paper
and seal it with cling film . Let the roll rest in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours, so it will firm up and be easier to slice. Cut strips of parchment paper about 0.6 inches wide and about 7.9 inches long (1.5x20 cm) . Once the roll is well chilled, take it out of the fridge, remove the cling film and parchment paper, and place the previously cut parchment paper strips on top creating an oblique stripe pattern.
Sprinkle the roll generously with powdered sugar , remove the parchment paper strips one by one , and slice . Your gluten-free cocoa and peach roll is ready to be enjoyed!
The gluten-free cocoa and peach roll can be stored in the fridge for 2-3 days well wrapped with cling film.
For gluten-free recipes, we recommend buying only products that have the crossed grain symbol on the package, certified gluten-free, recommended by the National Celiac Association (NCA).

