name:
Risotto with Shrimp Cream
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.7cups(320 g)
Scampi: 2.2lbs(1.2 kg)- (to clean)
Shallot: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Lemon juice: 1
White wine: 1oz(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Water: 8 ½glasses(1.5 l)
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Brandy: 1oz(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Tomato paste: 1spoonful
Parsley: 6tufts- stalks
Coarse salt: to taste
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- cold
Lemon peel: 1- (to grate)
Parsley: to taste- (to chop)
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
There are recipes created to make a dinner special... like risotto with shrimp cream, which, with its delicate and enveloping taste, is the ideal first course for a candlelit evening! To achieve perfect creaminess in this case, you don't need cream but rather a homemade shellfish broth made from shrimp scraps that is used to cook the rice. This way, the grains will absorb it during cooking, returning an intense explosion of aromas and flavors with every bite, while ensuring the risotto has a soft and velvety consistency. Elegant and appetizing, the risotto with shrimp cream will win over anyone sitting at the table... from your partner to the most demanding guests!
Try these refined variations of shrimp risotto:
Discover more delicious Risotto recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the risotto with shrimp cream, first clean the shellfish: detach the head and remove the intestine , then remove the shell, tail, and legs .
Save the scraps and place the cleaned shrimp in a baking dish, then season with oil , salt , and pepper. Set aside and prepare the vegetables for the broth: clean and cut the shallot, carrot, and celery into chunks .
Heat a splash of oil in a pot, then add the parsley stems and the vegetables . Sauté for about ten minutes, then add the heads and shells of the shrimp .
Continue to sauté, pressing the scraps well with a wooden spoon , then deglaze with the brandy . When the alcohol has completely evaporated, cover with water .
Add the tomato paste , peppercorns , and coarse salt . Stir and cook over medium heat for 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, heat a bit of oil in a pan with a clove of garlic in its skin and sauté the shrimp over high heat for a few seconds . Deglaze with lemon juice and turn off the heat .
When the broth's cooking time is up, strain it through a fine-mesh sieve and keep it warm. Transfer the sautéed shrimp to a jug, making sure to set some aside for decoration , then add a ladle of broth and blend with an immersion blender to obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream .
Proceed to cook the risotto: in a saucepan, sauté the chopped shallot with a bit of oil , then add the rice and toast it for a few minutes over medium heat, stirring often .
When the grains are warm to the touch, deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate completely, then wet the rice with a ladle of broth so that the liquid covers it by about an inch . Cook the rice over medium-low heat for about 16 minutes, adding more broth as needed. Halfway through the cooking time, add the shrimp cream .
When the rice is cooked, turn off the heat and flavor with chopped parsley and grated lemon zest , then stir in cold diced butter and mix to blend everything well.
Plate the risotto and garnish with the reserved shrimp , a few thyme leaves , and a drizzle of raw oil. Your risotto with shrimp cream is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the risotto with shrimp cream immediately. If necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator for one day.
For an even creamier effect, you can add 1/4 cup of fresh liquid cream to the shrimp cream!

