name:
Pasta with Cherry Tomatoes and Anchovies
ingredients:
Gluten-free Tagliatelle pasta: 10.6oz(300 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 4cups(600 g)
Anchovies: 8.8oz(250 g)- (already cleaned)
Caper berries: 1tbsp(15 g)- (cucunci)
Garlic: 1clove
Red onions: 1- small
Fresh chili pepper: ½
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Just two keywords to describe our pasta with cherry tomatoes and anchovies: easy and quick... we could also say delicious and tasty! This is a quick pasta dish perfect for those who don't feel like making the classic quick dishes such as spaghetti with garlic and oil or carbonara . So, a nice bunch of Cherry Tomato Preserve , specifically the datterini tomatoes which have a sweet and pleasant taste, together with anchovies, a low-cost, highly nutritious blue fish, enrich the character of the sauce. Are you ready to try this pasta with cherry tomatoes and anchovies? We are curious to know if you liked it: we are already having seconds!
If you love first courses with strong flavors, don't miss our recipe for Pasta alla cucunciata or this first course with anchovies and onions !
To prepare the pasta with cherry tomatoes and anchovies, we used semi-cleaned fresh anchovies: we only had to remove the central bone. If yours still need cleaning, just follow our kitchen school on how to clean anchovies and use about 14 oz. Continue with the cleaning and cutting of the garlic clove, getting thin slices . Then clean the chili from the stem, seeds, and internal filaments and chop it up .
Remove the stems from the carefully rinsed caperberries and cut them into quarters . Finally, wash the cherry tomatoes, then cut them in half , clean the onion, and slice it thinly .
In a pan, pour some oil along with the chili, sliced garlic, capers, and add the onions . Let everything heat over medium heat for 5 minutes; stir occasionally. After the time in which the base has well-flavored, add the cherry tomatoes , a pinch of salt , and pepper, and cook for 15 minutes.
In the meantime, set a pot of water on the stove and bring it to a boil. As soon as the sauce is almost cooked, you can add the anchovies and let them flavor for a couple of minutes . Be careful not to let them break apart, so stir gently . The water should be boiling, salt it and add the pasta. Meanwhile, chop some parsley and add it to the pan that you will have turned off and kept warm .
When the pasta is cooked, drain it directly into the sauce , turn the heat back on for a brief flame-up , if necessary, extend with a little pasta cooking water, and it’s ready. All that’s left is to plate your pasta with cherry tomatoes and anchovies, sprinkle it with a bit more parsley, and enjoy !
It is recommended to prepare and consume the pasta with cherry tomatoes and anchovies as soon as it is ready. If you prefer, you can prepare the sauce a bit in advance and store it in the refrigerator for no more than a day.
Add black olives or fennel instead of parsley if you like. If you want to give a crunchy note, toast some nuts like pine nuts or almonds and sprinkle them over the dishes: your guests will surely appreciate it!

