name:
Air Fryer Potato Chips
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Fine salt: 3pinches
Paprika: 2pinches
Rosemary: 1sprig
Sage: 2pinches- dry
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Golden and crispy, our air fryer potato chips have nothing to envy from traditional fried potato chips . Drier and lighter, but still tasty, our chips are a tempting snack, to enjoy as a quick bite or to serve at a home buffet for an aperitif. Once ready, serve them accompanied by traditional sauces like mayonnaise or Ketchup Sauce , or alternatively, you can dip them in lighter, fresher creams, such as a simple homemade sauce made with Greek yogurt, oil, lemon, and a sprinkle of pepper!
Here are other tasty recipes to prepare with the air fryer:
To prepare the air fryer potato chips, wash the potatoes well. Thinly slice them with the help of a mandoline , without peeling them, to obtain a thickness of about 1/8 inch . Distribute them in a bowl and cover them with fresh water .
Leave them to soak for about 20 minutes . Meanwhile, wash the rosemary and finely chop the needles . Drain the potato chips well and dry them with 2 clean towels .
Distribute them in a food-grade plastic bag, spray them with a little oil , and shake the bag well, then season them with the herbs and spices .
Shake the bag again to distribute the aromas . Pour the potatoes into the air fryer basket and cook at 450°F for about 30 minutes. Halfway through cooking, check the browning on the surface and gently shake the basket . If necessary, spray them with a little oil.
Once ready , salt and serve your air fryer potato chips hot .
We recommend consuming the potato chips immediately. If you have leftover cooked potatoes, spray them with a little vinegar and let them rest for a couple of hours at room temperature before serving. They will make an excellent side dish.
The potato chips were cooked in a 30-liter air fryer; if you have a smaller air fryer, we recommend cooking them in 2 batches at the highest available temperature.

