name:
Gluten-Free Crepes
ingredients:
Rice flour: 1.3cups(200 g)
Eggs: 5.3oz(150 g)- (about 3 medium) at room temperature
Milk: 1 ½cup(350 g)- at room temperature
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Salt: to taste
Butter: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Berries: to taste
Strawberries: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 16 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
The classic crepes originate from France and have inspired many sweet and savory preparations... thanks to the gluten-free crepes recipe, even those who need to follow a gluten-free diet can enjoy their goodness and versatility! These delightful crepes are made with rice flour and, just like the original ones, they lend themselves to a thousand variations: we chose to fill them with cream and fresh fruit, but they will also be delicious with a savory filling. Whether you are looking for an alternative for celiacs or simply want to try a lighter batter, gluten-free crepes are a perfect base to unleash your creativity!
If you are looking for other gluten-free dessert recipes, here is a small selection:

To prepare the gluten-free crepes, first melt the butter in the microwave or in a bain-marie and let it cool down. In a bowl, pour the eggs with a pinch of salt and the milk , then mix with a hand whisk. Add the cooled melted butter and mix again.
Now add the rice flour and mix carefully so that the batter does not form lumps . Lightly grease a 9.5-inch crepe pan (or a non-stick pan of the same size) with butter and pour a ladle of batter in the center .
Rotate the pan to distribute the batter evenly over the entire surface and cook over medium-low heat for one minute. When the edges start to lift, flip it with the help of a spatula and cook for another minute on the other side. Continue in the same way until the batter is used up; with these amounts, you will get about 8 crepes of 8 inches. As the crepes are ready, stack them on a serving plate . For the filling, pour the cream into a bowl and add the seeds of the vanilla pod .
Add the sugar and whip with electric beaters . Spread the cream over half the surface of the crepe .
Add fresh fruit of your choice such as strawberries, blueberries, and raspberries, then fold the crepe in half . Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve your gluten-free crepe !
Gluten-free crepes can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
You can freeze them after cooking: stack the crepes, alternating them with sheets of parchment paper, and finally wrap them with plastic wrap. Before using the desired amount, just let them thaw and then fill them as you like.
You can replace the rice flour with buckwheat flour.
Gluten-free crepes are also excellent as an appetizer, filled with cheeses and cured meats, for example!

