name:
Spaghetti with Bottarga
ingredients:
Spaghettoni: 11.3oz(320 g)
Anchovies: 3
Garlic: 1clove
Butter: 2.8tbsp(40 g)- (cold from freezer)
Tuna Bottarga: 1.4oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Spaghetti with bottarga is a simple yet refined first course, due to the presence of what is known as "the caviar of the Mediterranean", that is bottarga! These are salted fish eggs typical of the Sicilian coasts. More precisely, these are dried mullet or tuna eggs (the most prized). A concentrate of sea flavor, perfect for seasoning pasta but also for enriching appetizers or fish main courses. With an intense and unique taste, simply grated raw, bottarga is able to enliven any dish, like the savory spaghetti we propose you prepare and taste. Discover the secret of the "risotto-style" cooking in the various steps of the recipe, for a flavorful, creamy, and al dente spaghetti!
Enjoy other recipes with bottarga:
Discover more delicious Spaghetti recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the pasta with bottarga, you will need a pot with boiling unsalted water. In a large pan, heat a drizzle of olive oil, add a peeled and whole clove of garlic and let it brown. Finely chop the anchovies, add them to the pan, and let them melt over low heat . Remove the garlic .

Pour a ladle of boiling water , add the uncooked spaghetti . Continue cooking the pasta over medium heat, adding a ladle of water at a time , as soon as the previous one has been absorbed (like for a risotto).
The cooking time depends on the type of spaghetti; it will certainly be longer than the time indicated on the package. Once the last ladle of water has been absorbed , add the cold freezer butter cut into pieces and stir well. Finally, grate the tuna bottarga to taste .
Stir to flavor , plate and garnish with more bottarga as desired . The spaghetti with bottarga is ready to be served .
Consume the spaghetti with bottarga immediately.
It cannot be frozen.
The risotto-style cooking of the pasta allows all the starches to release directly into the pot and create a fantastic cream!

