name:
Grilled Eggplant Bruschettas
ingredients:
Eggplant: 2
Baguette: 1
Garlic: 1clove- (optional)
Mint: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
White wine vinegar: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The bruschetta is not just with tomatoes... here are some delicious grilled eggplant bruschettas! You can toast the bread and get a delicious pulp of eggplant simply by grilling them for a few minutes (even on a cast iron grill at home!): the result will be a very tasty bruschetta perfect as an appetizer for a summer aperitif. We chose to season the grilled eggplant with simple oil, salt, and vinegar and the freshness of fresh mint. This way they are already excellent, simple but exquisite. If you prefer, you can enrich the grilled eggplant bruschettas with Pecorino flakes or crumbled feta, confit cherry tomatoes or whatever your imagination suggests! All that's left is to get creative with this fragrant and inviting appetizer: you will "sail" into a mix of intense and irresistible flavors!
Discover more summer bruschettas:
To prepare the grilled eggplant bruschettas, heat the grill. In the meantime, wash and trim the eggplants . Cut them in half lengthwise and brush with extra virgin olive oil .
Make crosshatch cuts on the pulp . Place them on the hot grill with the pulp side down and cook for 6-7 minutes, then flip and continue for another 6-7 minutes (cooking time depends on the size of the eggplants) . Once cooking is complete, set them aside and once cooled, you can scoop out the pulp which will be used for the bruschettas . Keep the grill on the heat, it will be used for the bread.
Divide the baguettes in half or into more parts if they are very long, then open them up , brush with oil and grill them until golden .
Finely chop the mint leaves , put them in a small bowl and season with extra virgin olive oil , salt, and vinegar .
With this mix you can season the eggplant pulp . Now, if you like, rub the toasted bread slices with a garlic clove. Then distribute the eggplant pulp and serve the grilled eggplant bruschettas with additional mint leaves if desired .
You can store the seasoned eggplant pulp for one day in the refrigerator.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can also cook the eggplants in the oven: place the halved eggplants on a baking sheet with parchment paper and bake them in a preheated static oven at 400°F for about 10-12 minutes.

