name:
Gluten-free Pasta with Pistachio Pesto, Shrimp, and Sun-dried Tomatoes
ingredients:
Gluten-free Penne Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Shrimps: 10.6oz(300 g)- (peeled)
Dried tomatoes: 1.1oz(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Unsalted pistachios: 1 ¼cup(150 g)- (shelled)
Lactose free fresh cream: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Basil: 2leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 5tbsp(70 g)
Lemon peel: 1- (untreated)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The protagonist of this recipe has the shape of a small cannellini bean, is of an intense emerald green color, and is protected by a woody shell and its purplish skin. We are talking about one of Sicily's symbols: the pistachio. From this precious dried fruit used in cooking as a snack, for desserts, and for decorations, you can also obtain a rich and intense pistachio pesto , a variation of the great Ligurian classic. Today we propose to make it as a condiment for gluten-free pasta with pistachio pesto, shrimp, and sun-dried tomatoes. A Mediterranean recipe with intense colors and a taste that will not disappoint your expectations, thanks to a mix of flavors ranging from sharp to enveloping. It is said that green has the power to evoke peace and balance, with this gluten-free pasta with pistachio pesto, shrimp, and sun-dried tomatoes you will be sure to enjoy well-balanced flavors that will conquer you from the first forkful!
Try these variants too:
To prepare the gluten-free pasta with pistachio pesto, shrimp, and sun-dried tomatoes, start by removing the skin from the unsalted shelled pistachios by placing them in a container with very hot water and let them soak for 10-15 minutes . This process will help you remove the skin, thus obtaining a very light green pesto. After the time has elapsed, remove the skin from each pistachio .
Once the pistachios are dried, put them in the mixer and blend until you get granules (set aside two tablespoons for the final decoration) and then continue by adding the garlic clove and basil .
add the extra virgin olive oil and lactose-free cooking cream and blend until you get a smooth cream, then adjust the salt .
Set aside the pistachio pesto and then move on to the sun-dried tomatoes: put them in the mixer and blend until you get crunchy crumbs that you will keep aside for the final seasoning.
Then proceed with cleaning the shrimp tails: remove the shell then remove the dark central filament, using a toothpick to slightly lift the intestine and remove it with your fingers. This way, you will clean the tails without experiencing the bitter aftertaste of the filament. Remove the stem from a fresh chili pepper and chop it with a knife .
then put it in a pan with the extra virgin olive oil and a garlic clove , let it flavor for a few moments, then add the shrimp tails . After a few minutes of cooking, adjust the salt and remove the garlic clove .
Cook the pasta in plenty of boiling salted water following the cooking instructions on the package , and in the meantime put the pistachio pesto in a pan, diluting with a little pasta cooking water and stir off the heat .
When the pasta is cooked, drain it and put it directly into the pan with the pesto , also add the cooked shrimp tails and the blended sun-dried tomatoes .
To complete, grate the peel of an untreated lemon and the two tablespoons of pistachio pesto you had set aside earlier , mix well, and finally serve your gluten-free pasta with pistachio pesto, shrimp, and sun-dried tomatoes still hot !
It is recommended to consume the gluten-free pasta with pistachio pesto, shrimp, and sun-dried tomatoes immediately, but if you wish, you can store it in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap. The pesto, however, can be prepared in advance and stored with the surface covered with oil.
For gluten-free recipes, we recommend purchasing only products that display the certified gluten-free symbol on the packaging, or that are listed in the Gluten-Free Certification Organization (GFCO) handbook.

