name:
Eggplants au Gratin
ingredients:
Eggplant: 14.1oz(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Mint: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(70 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp
Oregano: to taste- dry

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Easy to find all year round, eggplants are at their best in summer, especially in Eggplant Parmesan or caponata ! For those who prefer to stay light, here is a simple side dish: eggplants au gratin! Just slice them and bake them in the oven with a crispy, flavored breadcrumb coating that makes them incredibly tasty. How can you resist that savory, crunchy surface paired with the soft slice of eggplant? You can't! Perfect to pair with meat or fish second courses, complete your gratinated eggplants with mint leaves as we did and bring the fresh scent of summer to the table!
Many more ideas on how to cook eggplants:
To prepare the eggplants au gratin, first wash the eggplants and cut them into slices about 0.4 inches (1 cm) thick . Place the eggplant slices on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and season with oil , salt, and pepper . Bake in a preheated fan oven at 392°F (200°C) for 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, prepare the breadcrumb coating: remove the heart from the garlic clove , then chop or crush it in a bowl. Add the breadcrumbs and grated Parmigiano .
Add salt , paprika , and oil .
Finally, season with oregano and mix to combine . Finely chop the fresh mint .
After the baking time, remove the eggplants from the oven and distribute the breadcrumb mixture over each slice . Bake again for 3 minutes, turning on the grill at 464°F (240°C), then garnish with the chopped mint . Your gratinated eggplants are ready to be served !
It is recommended to serve the eggplants au gratin immediately. Alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
You can use Pecorino cheese instead of Parmigiano Reggiano DOP for a more intense flavor in the breadcrumb coating, or omit the paprika.
Yes, the indicated times and thickness will ensure adequate cooking.
The widespread use of eggplants has led them to lose some of their bitterness over time, so this practice is no longer essential today.
It ensures a great aroma, perfect browning, and adds a boost to the flavor. However, if you don't prefer it or are intolerant, it can be replaced with breadcrumbs.

