name:
Pasta with Swordfish
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Swordfish: 0.7lb(300 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Taggiasca olives: 2.5oz(70 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)-
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
All the flavor of the Mediterranean in one dish... this is how you can summarize the feeling you'll experience when you taste the first forkful of pasta with swordfish! A main course that stands out for its simplicity and for the genuine quality of the ingredients used: the tender and delicate meat of the swordfish, the fresh cherry tomatoes that create a delicious sauce, and the bold note of Taggiasca olives. A quick and tasty dressing that pairs perfectly with both linguine and other pasta shapes, long or short. Ideal to prepare when you have little time but don’t want to disappoint, pasta with swordfish is even better when accompanied by a glass of fresh white wine... an exquisite dish for your summer evenings!
Here are other delicious first courses with swordfish to try:

To prepare pasta with swordfish, first put a pot of salted water on the stove, which will be used to cook the pasta. Meanwhile, wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them into quarters (or halves) . Remove the skin from the swordfish and cut it first into slices and then into cubes about 0.6 inch (1.5 cm) .
In a large pan, heat the oil with the garlic clove and thyme sprigs , then add the cherry tomatoes . Salt and pepper.
Moisten with a little pasta water and cook over medium-high heat for a few minutes. Meanwhile, toss the linguine into the boiling water . While the pasta is cooking, add the olives to the cherry tomatoes .
Add the swordfish , mix well, and continue cooking for a few more minutes, then remove the garlic . Drain the pasta al dente and transfer it directly to the pan .
Pour a ladle of cooking water and toss everything to combine. Finally, with the heat off, stir in a drizzle of oil . Your pasta with swordfish is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the pasta with swordfish immediately. If necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
You can freeze the sauce if you've used fresh ingredients.
If you prefer, you can replace the thyme with parsley and add it at the end of cooking.
Spice up the dressing with a pinch of chili for a spicy note!

