name:
Scallops au Gratin with Eggplants
ingredients:
Scallops: 10
Fine salt: 6.7tbsp(100 g)
Sugar: 6tbsp(80 g)
White pepper: to taste
Bread: 5.3oz(150 g)- dried
Parsley: 1.8oz(50 g)- (leaves only)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)- fruity and light
Fine salt: ½tsp(2.5 g)
Garlic: 0.2oz(1 g)
Panko: ½cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(14 g)
Parsley: ½tsp(3 g)
White pepper: ¼tsp(0.8 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 5tbsp(75 g)
Water: 0.6tsp(2.5 g)
Rosemary: ½tsp(3 g)
Fine salt: ½tsp(1.5 g)
Lemon juice: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: 7tbsp(100 g)
Parsley: 1.8oz(50 g)- (only the stems)
Eggplant: 1.1lbs(500 g)- long
Fine salt: 1pinch
Lime peel: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: High
Note + resting times

instructions:
The scallops au gratin are one of the Christmas appetizers par excellence! Today, together with the famous chef Moreno Cedroni, we show you how to make scallops au gratin with eggplants, a starred version of this classic dish! Don't be scared by the various preparations, they are all very simple and the result is guaranteed! A burst of flavors to enhance the taste of one of the most prized seafood. A richer variant, with a base of eggplant pulp, seasoned with fragrant rosemary salmoriglio, 2 different breadings to achieve taste and crunchiness, and finally a delicious parsley oil. Make this dish too and you will conquer all your guests! Here are other scallop recipes:
To prepare the scallops au gratin, start with the first breading. Place the parsley leaves, washed and dried with a spinner, in a mixer, then add the dried bread and the garlic .
Also add the salt and oil . Blend everything and transfer to a bowl . The first breading is ready, set it aside.
Now prepare the flavored oil. Heat the sunflower oil in a small pot and add the parsley stems . Let it infuse for a few minutes, then let it cool. Blend everything with a mixer , then strain using gauze or a kitchen cloth . Set aside.
Prepare the second breading. Toast the panko in the oven until golden and transfer to a bowl. Add the chopped parsley , fine salt , extra virgin oil, and ground white pepper. Mix and set aside .
Prepare the salmoriglio. To prevent the rosemary from darkening, moisten the cutting board with lemon juice , then finely chop the needles and transfer to a bowl. Also, add 1/2 teaspoon of lemon juice .
Add the extra virgin oil , salt, and water. Mix to create an emulsion and set aside . Wash the long eggplants, dry them, and place them on a baking tray . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 35 minutes, then turn off the oven and leave them inside for another 25 minutes. This will make the skin tender.
In the meantime, take care of the scallops. Prepare the marinade: in a bowl, combine the sugar, salt , and white pepper . Mix and set aside. Using a spoon, carefully detach them from the shell without damaging them .
Then separate the roe (the orange part) and the muscle (the part that connects the scallop to the roe). Wash the shells well and set them aside as they will be needed again. Cut the scallop meat in half , then cut the roe into 2 or 3 parts if they are too large .
Finally, cut the muscles into pieces . Place a couple of tablespoons of the marinade in a tray and place all the scallop parts on top .
Cover with the remaining marinade . Let rest for 10 minutes, then rinse quickly . Place them on a tray with absorbent paper .
Cover with more paper and pat dry well . At this point, the eggplants will be ready, remove them from the oven . Cut the eggplants into quarters, lengthwise .
Scoop out the pulp without breaking the skin , chop it, and transfer it to a bowl. Season with the freshly made salmoriglio and a pinch of salt . Take the skin and cut it into diamond shapes. Take the cleaned shells and divide the eggplants inside. Slightly press them with the back of a spoon .
Place the first breading on top and bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for 7 minutes. Take the scallops and cut the meat into cubes . Mix with the pieces of muscle and roe .
Remove the shells with the eggplants from the oven and place the scallop cubes on top . Cover with the second breading, the one with the panko , and add a bit more of the previous breading .
Bake again in a static oven at 375°F for 4 minutes . Transfer them to a plate and add a bit more salmoriglio, then garnish with the eggplant skins .
Season with the flavored parsley oil , finish with lime zest , and serve your scallops au gratin with eggplants still hot !
We recommend serving the scallops au gratin with eggplants immediately!
Marinating the scallops with salt and sugar helps to remove some of the liquid inside. This way, the breading won't get soggy during cooking. The cooking of the scallops must be very quick!

