name:
Ice Cream Cake
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 3.5oz(100 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Dark chocolate: 1.4oz(40 g)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.65cup(150 g)
Sugar: 0.8cup(160 g)
Egg yolks: 6
Glucose syrup: 1tbsp(15 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 6tbsp(50 g)
Carob seed powder: 1tsp(5 g)
Whole milk: 2 ½cups(600 ml)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.1cups(250 ml)
Vanilla bean: 1
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ⅔cup(150 ml)
Dark chocolate: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average

instructions:
The ice cream cake is the quintessential summer dessert, fresh and spectacular, ideal for bringing an elegant and pleasant sweet to the table even on hot summer days. The cake consists of a crumbly cookie base topped with layers of soft chocolate and vanilla ice cream, alternating with crunchy dark chocolate slabs. Grab your ice cream maker and start preparing this delight, here we reveal all the little tricks to make it! And if you don't have an ice cream maker, make our Semi-frozen cake !
Prepare the chocolate ice cream: place the milk, cream, and glucose in a saucepan and heat everything. Mix the sugar with the carob flour in a bowl , then add the egg yolks
and beat with a whisk . Add the sifted cocoa powder and whisk until all the ingredients are well combined .
Pour the warm milk and cream mixture in a thin stream into the mixture , stirring and then return the mixture to the saucepan and cook, always stirring, until it reaches 185°F (check the temperature with a thermometer), do not boil, otherwise the yolks will clump. Remove from heat, transfer the ice cream to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let it cool , then place in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours.
In the meantime, prepare the vanilla ice cream: Pour the milk and cream into a saucepan and add the sugar, carob flour, seeds, and vanilla bean . Heat the mixture over low heat and stir with a whisk: you need to bring the ice cream base to just under 185°F (the mixture should almost boil but not boil). Once it reaches the temperature remove the vanilla bean. Once cold, put the ice cream in the refrigerator for at least a couple of hours covered with plastic wrap .
Now prepare the chocolate slabs: melt the dark chocolate in a bain-marie or microwave and spread it with a spatula on parchment paper creating 3 thin rectangular sheets measuring about 11 x 4 inches and let them cool in the freezer. Retrieve the chocolate ice cream and pour it into the churn (ice cream maker) for about 30 minutes or the time indicated in your ice cream maker's manual.
When it is ready pour it into a buttered and parchment-lined loaf pan with dimensions of 11x4x3 inches, level the surface with a spatula , and place in the freezer .
Take the vanilla ice cream and pour it into the churn and start it for at least 30 minutes until creamy . When the chocolate slabs are cold, take one and lay it in the mold over the chocolate ice cream ,
then add half of the vanilla ice cream and another chocolate slab . Continue with the vanilla ice cream and the last chocolate slab . Put it in the freezer and take care of the base.
Place the cookies in a mixer , blend them finely and transfer them to a bowl, add the melted butter
and the chocolate melted in a bain-marie or microwave . Mix everything and then spread it over the ice cream, leveling the surface well with a spatula . Place the ice cream cake in the freezer for at least 4 hours. Gently unmold the ice cream cake .
Whip the cream and transfer it to a piping bag with a star tip and decorate the surface , finish by grating a block of dark chocolate or a bar and sprinkling the shavings on top of the cake . The ice cream cake is ready , keep it in the freezer and let it sit at room temperature for 20 minutes before serving.
Store the ice cream cake in the freezer for 3-4 days.
Vanilla and chocolate is a classic pairing, but you can also make a fruit version with strawberry ice cream or other flavors you like.
As an alternative to glucose, you can use honey.
Looking for an equally refreshing but lactose-free snack idea? Try the recipe for Raspberry and Chocolate Popsicles !

