name:
Pasta with Cherry Tomatoes, Capers, Stracciatella
ingredients:
Pennoni rigati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 1.25lbs(600 g)
Anchovies in oil: 3fillets
Oregano: to taste
Salted capers: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- to be desalted
Lemon peel: 1
Vegetable oil: 2.1cups(500 g)- (for frying capers)
Garlic: 1clove
Sugar: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Stracciatella cheese: 1cup(250 g)- (from burrata)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
What could be better in summer than a first course that exudes Mediterranean flavor? Pasta with cherry tomatoes, capers, and burrata, a triumph of simple flavors and colors for a stunning recipe. Instead of pasta with Square spaghetti with fresh sauce and mozzarella , in this case, the cherry tomatoes are roasted in the oven, giving the dish a significant roasted flavor, while the capers are transformed into a delicious fritter, and the burrata refreshes this mix of strongly Mediterranean ingredients. What are you waiting for to dive into this whirlwind of summer flavors?
Discover many other dishes with tomatoes and cherry tomatoes:
To prepare pasta with cherry tomatoes, capers, and burrata, start by washing and cutting the cherry tomatoes in half lengthwise . Place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , cut side up. Season with plenty of extra virgin olive oil .
Sprinkle with oregano , salt , and sugar . Bake in a preheated static oven at 400°F for about 30-40 minutes: at the end of cooking, they should be caramelized, wilted, and well roasted.
For the capers: rinse them under running water to remove excess salt, pat them dry to remove as much water as possible. In a high-sided saucepan, heat the seed oil to 350°F. Fry the capers for a few minutes and drain on paper towels as soon as they are crispy .
Meanwhile, the cherry tomatoes will be cooked: take about 3/4 of the total, put them in a tall glass, add water and 2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil and blend .
The final consistency should be a cream , then pass it through a sieve . The cherry tomato coulis is ready .
Cook the penne , draining 3 minutes before the end of cooking. Meanwhile, in a large pan, pour the extra virgin olive oil, the peeled garlic, and the anchovies . Melt them by stirring, then remove the garlic .
You can then pour the coulis and mix, then drain the penne , add cooking water if needed and finish cooking the penne. Once ready, turn off the heat, and flavor with grated lemon zest . You can also add a little oil in a thin stream.
Serve the pasta on a nice serving dish, arranging the reserved cherry tomatoes and the burrata stracciatella in a scattered order. Finish by crumbling the fried capers !
It is recommended to consume immediately. The pasta can be stored with just the coulis for 1 day in the fridge in an airtight container.

