name:
Homemade Kebab
ingredients:
Chicken Thighs: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (boneless)
Sliced veal: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (brisket)
Granny Smith apples: 2
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Garlic: 4cloves
Lemon peel: 2
Hot Paprika: 1spoonful
Powdered cumin: 1tsp
Powdered coriander: 1tsp
Rosemary: to taste
Fine salt: 1spoonful
Black pepper: 1tsp
Cluster tomatoes: 1.3cups(200 g)
Red onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Cabbage: 1 ⅛cup(100 g)
Red cabbage: 1.1cups(100 g)
Iceberg lettuce: 1 ¾cup(100 g)
Water: to taste
Ice: to taste
Lemon juice: 2
Greek yogurt: ½cup(100 g)
Lemon juice: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Pita bread: 8
Ketchup: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the meat marinating time (at least 4 h)

instructions:
To make the homemade kebab, first prepare the marinade for the meat: in a large dish, pour the salt, paprika , pepper , and peeled and slightly crushed garlic cloves .
Add the rosemary needles , grated lemon zest , and oil .
Also add the ground cumin and coriander , then mix everything and place the slices of chicken and veal inside .
Massage the meat with your hands to season it evenly with the marinade , then cover with plastic wrap and let marinate in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours . Toward the end of the marinating time, take care of the vegetables: wash the lettuce and cut it into thin strips .
Wash and slice the tomatoes . Peel the onion and slice it thinly , then immerse it in a bowl with water, ice, and the juice of 2 lemons to mellow its pungent note .
Finally, slice the white cabbage with a mandoline and soak it in cold water . Do the same with the red cabbage .
Remove the meat from the refrigerator. Take an apple and remove the bottom and top part, then cut it horizontally in half. Insert 3 steel skewers into one half of the apple , then skewer the slices of meat onto the skewers, alternating chicken with veal . Once finished, close the skewer with the other half of the apple . Proceed in the same way to form the second skewer.
Place the skewers on a rack positioned over a baking tray lined with parchment paper, which will serve to collect the juices during cooking . Cook in a preheated static oven at 450°F for 50 minutes, turning it with tongs every 10 minutes . Check the cooking: if the meat doesn't seem cooked, especially the chicken, you will need to continue for a few more minutes. As soon as they have cooled slightly, slice the meat with a knife keeping the skewers vertical, so that the pieces of meat fall into the cooking bottom .
Lastly, prepare the yogurt sauce: pour the Greek yogurt into a bowl, then add the lemon juice and oil and mix well . If you wish, you can also add a few drops of Tabasco.
At this point, drain and dry the vegetables, then you are ready to assemble your kebab: cut the pita in half and spread one side with yogurt sauce , then add the lettuce and tomatoes .
Continue with the meat strips , white cabbage , and red cabbage .
Finish with the red onion , then close with the other half of the sandwich spread with ketchup . Proceed in the same way to assemble all the other sandwiches. Your homemade kebab is ready to be enjoyed !
It is advisable to consume the homemade kebab immediately, otherwise, the meat will tend to dry out.
For a more spiced flavor, you can increase the amount of spices for the marinade by a teaspoon, or add a few drops of Tabasco for a spicy note!
Ask your trusted butcher to choose for you veal slices that are quite rich in fat.
What is the difference between kebab and gyros ? They are two very similar preparations: the first, as we said, is typical of Turkey and is usually made with beef, lamb, or chicken, while the gyros comes from Greece and also contains pork, which is forbidden by the Muslim religion. The version we propose here is not intended to be a faithful reproduction of the traditional recipe, but rather a homemade variant of the sandwich as it has spread internationally.

