name:
Saffron Tiramisu
ingredients:
Ladyfingers: 8.8oz(250 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 3 ¼cups(750 g)
Coffee: 10.6oz(300 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 1cup(120 g)
Eggs: 5- very fresh (or pasteurized)
Saffron: 0.016oz(0.45 g)- (3 packets of 0.15 g each)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)- at room temperature
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Note + the chilling time in the fridge (at least 2-3 hours)

instructions:
With the saffron tiramisu recipe, we have revisited the traditional tiramisù by adding an unusual touch that makes it unique and special. Here, the unmistakable flavor of saffron blends with the enveloping sweetness of the famous Italian dessert. Its golden and bright color is so inviting that it captures the eye, while its delicate taste will seduce you at the first bite. With each spoonful, you will rediscover the typical creaminess that distinguishes the most classic version of this dessert. Saffron tiramisu is an original variation designed to surprise and delight the most discerning palates, offering a new harmony of flavors that conquers instantly.
Try other tasty versions of tiramisù :
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare saffron tiramisù, first separate the egg yolks from the whites into 2 bowls. Add the yolks and sugar and beat with an electric mixer until a light and creamy mixture is obtained .
Add the mascarpone little by little and continue to work at medium speed with the mixer until it is well incorporated . Pour the saffron into a small bowl and add the cream at room temperature .
Mix until the mixture is a beautiful golden color . Add the saffron dissolved in the cream to the previously whipped mixture and set aside.
Beat the egg whites with the mixer until stiff peaks form . Gradually incorporate the egg whites into the cream with a spatula: start by vigorously mixing the mixture with a portion of the egg whites .
Then continue to incorporate the rest gradually, taking care to mix gently from bottom to top to avoid deflating the mixture. Once the cream is obtained , dip the ladyfingers in the espresso coffee (sweetened to taste) .
Place them at the base of a 8x8 inch pan , add a few tablespoons of cream spreading it over the entire surface , then continue with a second layer of ladyfingers .
The ladyfingers should cover all the cream . Finish with another layer of cream and smooth it well with a spatula . Now transfer the remaining mascarpone cream into a pastry bag with a 1/2 inch star tip and pipe dollops on the surface .
Once the surface is decorated , dust with cocoa powder as desired . Let the saffron tiramisù rest in the refrigerator for 2-3 hours before serving .
It is recommended to consume saffron tiramisù, prepared with fresh eggs, within the day or store it for up to one day in the refrigerator in an airtight container. If you used pasteurized eggs, you can store it for up to 2-3 days.
To whip the egg whites well, we recommend ensuring there are no traces of yolks in the bowl.

