name:
Pasta with Pepper Cream, Caciotta Cheese, and Tuna
ingredients:
Penne Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Red peppers: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Tuna in oil: 4.8oz(135 g)- (in fillets)
Caciottina cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)- soft
Wild fennel: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pasta with pepper cream, caciotta, and tuna is a first course that is truly exquisite. Colorful and easy to prepare, it will please everyone. The sweet bell peppers turn into a pepper cream flavored with fennel that completely envelops the penne and pairs wonderfully with the taste of tuna. The soft caciotta, in our case cacio di Pienza, will add a more or less strong flavor depending on the degree of aging. Pasta with pepper cream, caciotta, and tuna can be served immediately or turned into a cold pasta by letting it sit in the fridge first. Whether it's hot or at room temperature, the success of this pepper and tuna pasta is guaranteed!
And if you are pepper lovers, here are other dishes not to miss:
To prepare pasta with pepper cream, caciotta, and tuna, first clean the bell pepper by removing the top , seeds, and inner membranes. Cut the pepper into strips and then into pieces about 1 1/4 inches . You will get about 12 ounces total. Set aside about 1 ounce for the final decoration of the dish.
Now put a pot full of salted water on the stove, which will be used for cooking the pasta. Pour a drizzle of oil into a pan, add the crushed garlic clove, and let it brown for a couple of minutes. Add the bell pepper pieces, salt , and cook over medium heat for about 10 minutes without a lid. The bell peppers should be cooked and well browned.
As soon as the water reaches a boil, add the pasta . Remove the garlic from the bell peppers and transfer them to a tall glass and add about 4 tbsps of extra virgin olive oil .
Add a sprig of fennel and blend with an immersion blender until you get the smoothest cream possible . Coarsely grate the caciotta cheese and as soon as the pasta is cooked, drain it, cool it under running water, and transfer it to a bowl.
Take the reserved bell pepper and finely chop it . Pour the pepper cream into the bowl with the pasta and mix .
Shred the well-drained tuna with your hands and add it to the pasta . Add the grated soft caciotta cheese .
Mix everything well and plate. Add the pepper pieces, some fennel , and serve your pasta with pepper cream, caciotta, and tuna !
You can store pasta with pepper cream, caciotta, and tuna in the refrigerator for 2 days.
You can store pasta with pepper cream, caciotta, and tuna in the fridge for a couple of hours and serve it cold.
Enrich the pepper cream with a pinch of paprika for a bolder flavor.

