name:
Quick Cheesecake
ingredients:
Whole peeled hazelnuts: 1.75oz(50 g)
Pistachios: ⅓cup(50 g)- already shelled
Digestive biscuits: 3.5oz(100 g)
Butter: 5.6tbsp(80 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 2.1cups(500 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Powdered sugar: 0.42cup(50 g)
Herbal liqueur: 1spoonful
Lemon curd: 2spoonfuls
Blueberries: to taste
Raspberries: to taste
Currants: to taste
Dark chocolate: to taste- (curls)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 3 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Cheesecake lovers, step right up! Are you tired of giving up on preparing your favorite dessert just because it takes too long? Forget about the long setting times needed for preparing a Cheesecake without gelatin , or the baking times for a New York Cheesecake ... using our recipe, you will get delicious quick cheesecakes in just a few minutes! We have added hazelnuts and pistachios to the classic base for a unique, rich, and special flavor! The soft, velvety cream is made only with mascarpone, but we didn't forget to add the classic tangy touch, provided in this case by Lemon curd ! With these quick cheesecakes, you won't have any more problems, and for last-minute dinners, the dessert will be guaranteed! Here are other cheesecakes you shouldn't miss:
To prepare the quick cheesecakes, start by making the base. Pour hazelnuts and pistachios into a mortar; both should be already shelled. Then begin to crush everything with a wooden pestle . Alternatively, you can use a mixer.
Once you have achieved a coarse grind , transfer it to a preheated skillet . Toast it, stirring occasionally and making sure it doesn't burn, until everything is well-toasted .
Meanwhile, take a cloth and place the cookies in the center . Fold the cloth and crush the cookies by hitting the package on the countertop to break them up coarsely .
Transfer the nuts to a bowl and add the crushed cookies ; then melt the butter, let it cool for a few moments, and pour it into the bowl . Stir with a spatula or spoon until all the ingredients are well combined .
Divide the mixture into the 4 glasses , and press it down lightly with the back of a spoon . Set the cups aside and start preparing the cream. In another larger bowl, pour the mascarpone, add the seeds you've scraped from a vanilla pod
and the powdered sugar . Add the herbal liqueur and the lemon curd .
Mix everything , starting slowly and then more vigorously, until you get a smooth cream . Transfer it to a piping bag and use it to fill the glasses . Then level the surface of each cup with the back of a teaspoon.
Create chocolate curls by sliding the blade of a knife across the base of a chocolate bar and garnish the cups with them . Add the berries and serve your quick cheesecakes! If you don't want to consume them immediately, store them in the fridge until ready to enjoy.
Quick cheesecakes can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day.
If you can't find lemon curd, you can use citrus marmalade. If you prefer, you can use brandy instead of the herbal liqueur or omit it altogether.

