name:
Brown Rice Salad
ingredients:
Whole rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Baby Zucchini (summer squash): 7.1oz(200 g)
Carrots: 1 ½cup(160 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Fava beans: 1lb(450 g)- fresh, to be shelled
Pumpkin seeds: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)- shelled
Taggiasca olives: 1.8oz(50 g)- pitted
Chives: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)-
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time

instructions:
It's not summer without rice salad , but this time we want to tease you with a quick and alternative vegetarian recipe: brown rice salad. Healthy, genuine, and at the same time delicious, this brown rice salad is a celebration of garden colors and flavors, an explosion of vitality and lightness, thanks to this special brown rice rich in fiber and highly filling, making it a perfect dish for outdoor trips to the park or even the beach. Among the most common ingredients such as zucchini, carrots, and cherry tomatoes, there are other unusual ingredients to discover, such as small and crunchy pumpkin seeds, which, besides being tasty, are also a precious source of iron and omega 3. With the brown rice salad recipe, you will convince even your most skeptical friends that a healthy dish can also be delicious!
To prepare the brown rice salad, start by placing a large pot filled with water on the stove and bring it to a boil. When the water boils, add the rice and cook for 30 minutes over medium heat. In the meantime, prepare the dressing, shell the broad beans and remove the skin from each seed . If using already shelled beans, just remove the outer skin: you need about 2.5 oz (70 grams) shelled. Move on to the zucchini: wash them, trim them, and then grate them with a coarse grater .
Peel and trim the carrots, then grate them . Wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them into quarters . Now chop the chives .
Gather all these vegetables in a bowl and add the pumpkin seeds and pitted Taggiasca olives .
Season with olive oil , salt, and pepper, mix and set aside. Meanwhile, the brown rice will be cooked, drain it with a fine-mesh strainer ,
pour it into a bowl and immediately season with olive oil to prevent it from sticking and let it cool completely. Once the rice is cold, add the vegetable dressing and mix to combine the ingredients. Your brown rice salad is ready to be enjoyed .
Once cold, you can store the brown rice salad in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 2-3 days.
You can freeze the brown rice salad, preferably if you have used fresh ingredients.
Unleash your creativity and experiment with many other tasty variations of vegetarian rice salad using peas, corn, bell peppers, or enriching it with some other intriguing ingredients like capers or cheese cubes.

