name:
Penne with Peppers
ingredients:
Penne Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Red peppers: 9.7oz(275 g)
Yellow peppers: 9.7oz(275 g)
Anchovies in oil: 2-
Tomato purée: 0.8cup(200 g)
Basil: to taste-
Brown sugar: 1pinch
White onions: 2.8oz(80 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Today we offer you a cheerful and colorful first course: penne with peppers, a preparation as simple as it is tantalizing, prepared with a few ingredients with intense aromas that together create an explosive mix of flavors! With the arrival of the first hot days, the desire to enjoy tasty and genuine summer fruits, such as peppers, with their bright colors and unmistakable flavor, becomes stronger. Don't hesitate and get to the stove to prepare penne with peppers or the even creamier variant or a tasty version with sausage and feta . What is certain is that the aroma of stewed peppers will intoxicate your home and make your neighbors' mouths water.
To make the penne with peppers, peel the white onion and slice it thinly , heat the olive oil in a pan with two anchovies drained of their preserving oil and the sliced onions , stew the onion with a little water until it is soft, which will take about 10 minutes. Meanwhile, place a pot with plenty of water on the stove, to be salted when it boils: you will later need it to cook the pasta. At this point, wash the peppers under running water and remove the stem
Cut them in half and with a knife remove the seeds and internal filaments ; now cut them into strips (5-6)
and once the onion is well stewed, add the peppers , moisten them with a little water and stew for about 15 minutes, then add the tomato puree and reduce the acidity with a pinch of brown sugar .
Flavor the sauce with a few leaves of fresh basil (keep some aside to garnish the plates if you prefer) , stir, then cover with the lid and continue cooking for about 10 minutes, stirring occasionally . In the meantime, cook the pasta, taking care to cook it al dente for about 10 minutes (adjust according to the cooking time indicated on the package) .
Once al dente, drain the pasta directly into the pan with the pepper sauce , stir well to season. The penne with peppers are ready , serve them hot, garnishing the plate with a basil leaf !
It is preferable to consume the penne with peppers as soon as they are ready. If there are leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days. Freezing the pasta is not recommended; if you used fresh ingredients, you can freeze the pepper sauce separately.
For those who love strong flavors, add some fresh chili pepper to the sauce to give the dish character!
If you love peppers so much that you want to enjoy them all year round, try our recipe for sweet and sour peppers !

