name:
Egg White Tart with Lemon Cream
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Sugar: ½cup(80 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)- cold
Egg whites: 2.5oz(70 g)- (from about 2 medium eggs) at room temperature
Lemon peel: 1- (to be grated)
Baking soda: 1pinch
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Cornstarch: 0.3cup(40 g)
Egg yolks: 4
Lemon peel: ½
Vanilla: ¼tsp(0.5 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.3cups(300 g)
Biscotti: to taste- crumbly
Raspberries: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 30 min. of resting time for the pastry in the refrigerator and the cooling time for the cream

instructions:
How many times have you wondered what to do with the egg whites left over from making a delicious custard? Here is the solution: a tart with egg white shortcrust pastry, obviously filled with yolk-based cream! A way to fully utilize the ingredients you have and create a perfect dessert for a snack or after a meal! We've tempted you with many variations of the classic shortcrust pastry : whole grain or gluten-free, with oil instead of butter... but the one made with Shortcrust Pastry with Egg Whites was really missing! Decorated with a dollop of whipped cream and fresh raspberries, the egg white tart with lemon cream will be perfect for your special occasions!
To make the egg white tart with lemon cream, first prepare the shortcrust: pour the flour and sugar into a large bowl , create a well in the center and add the cold butter in cubes .
Add the baking soda and grated lemon zest . Start working with your fingers until you get a crumbly mixture, then add the egg whites at room temperature .
Continue kneading to combine all the ingredients , then transfer the mixture to the work surface and form a smooth and homogeneous dough. Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest in the fridge for about 30 minutes. After the resting time, roll out the dough on the lightly floured work surface to a thickness of about 1/8 - 3/16 inch (4-5 mm) .
Wrap the dough around the rolling pin and gently unroll it over a 7-inch (18 cm) diameter mold (no need to grease) , then press with your fingers to make it adhere, including the edges. Poke the base with the tines of a fork, cover with a sheet of parchment paper, and fill the mold with dried legumes or ceramic baking beans . Proceed with blind baking by placing the base in the preheated static oven at 356°F (180°C) for 15 minutes, then remove the weights and parchment paper and bake for another 15 minutes at the same temperature.
In the meantime, prepare the lemon cream: pour the milk into a saucepan, add the lemon zest and vanilla powder, and bring to just below boiling point . Meanwhile, place the egg yolks in a separate bowl and add the sugar .
Beat the yolks with an electric mixer until light and frothy , then sift the cornstarch into the bowl and mix again to incorporate it evenly. Remove the lemon zest from the saucepan, then add a ladle of hot milk to the yolk mixture , stirring well to temper it.
Pour the obtained mixture back into the saucepan with the rest of the milk and stir continuously over low heat until it reaches the desired consistency. When the cream has thickened, transfer it to a bowl and cover with plastic wrap on contact . Meanwhile, whip the cream that you will use for decoration .
At this point, the tart base will be baked, so take it out and let it cool. When both preparations are at room temperature, pour the cream into the shortcrust shell and level the surface with a spatula . Decorate with whipped cream, crumbly cookies (if desired), and raspberries or other fruits of your choice: your egg white tart with lemon cream is ready to be enjoyed !
The egg white tart with lemon cream can be stored in the fridge for about 3 days.
You can prepare both the shortcrust and the cream in advance and store them in the fridge for 3-4 days, covered with plastic wrap.
You can freeze both the shortcrust and the cream for about a month.
Vary the decoration to your liking by adding strawberries or other berries, or shredded coconut or white chocolate flakes!

