name:
Tuna and Lemon Pasta
ingredients:
Sedanini Rigati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Lemons: 1
Tuna in oil: 4.8oz(135 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Basil: to taste
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The tuna pasta is the quintessential "dinner saver" dish. Students, singles, and busy parents always have some tuna in the pantry ready for use! Today we want to show you how to make one of the simplest Italian pasta dishes chic... just add some grated lemon zest and a bit of juice to give the dish a unique and delicate flavor. The slightly acidic note will leave a fresh sensation in your mouth that will fully satisfy your guests' palates! Make this tuna and lemon pasta yourself, in no time you'll have a dish perfect to serve both hot and cold!
Here are other variations of this recipe:
To prepare tuna and lemon pasta, you can start by boiling the pasta water and salting it once it's boiling. Then wash, trim, and chop the chili pepper into pieces ; you can remove the seeds if you prefer. You can also finely chop it if you like. In a skillet, pour a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil, add the peeled garlic clove and the fresh chili pepper . Sauté, stirring occasionally.
Add the drained tuna . Cook the tuna over high heat for 1 minute, stirring occasionally, then deglaze with the lemon juice and continue cooking for a couple of minutes. Turn off the heat, salt to taste , and set aside.
Cook the pasta al dente if possible . Once cooked, drain directly into the skillet with the tuna and add a bit of cooking water .
Off the heat, toss the pasta and stir, dressing with olive oil . Plate and garnish with lemon zest and fresh basil leaves . The tuna and lemon pasta is ready to enjoy !
The tuna and lemon pasta can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day in an airtight container.
To make the pasta creamier, you can toss it with some mild-flavored spreadable cheese.

