name:
Pasta Nduja and Pecorino
ingredients:
Mezze Maniche Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Nduja: 2.8oz(80 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to be grated)
Red onions: 1- (medium)
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Today pasta! An express dish, decidedly flavorful and slightly spicy: pasta nduja and pecorino! The 'nduja', a soft and spicy sausage emblematic of typical Calabrian flavors, always pairs well with Caciocavallo Silano. This time, we've decided to make it meet one of the most appreciated products of Lazio, pecorino romano. Mezze maniche pasta is perfect for soaking up this quick and very tasty sauce, slightly sweetened by the red onions. Will you enjoy it as it is or enhance this quick first course with other ingredients?
If you love 'nduja and pecorino, check out these other delicious recipes!
To prepare pasta nduja and pecorino, start with the onions: clean and thinly slice them . Move to the stove and bring water to a boil for the pasta. Meanwhile, pour the onions into a non-stick pan and let them stew on low heat for about 15 minutes ; if the bottom dries too quickly, add a little water.
When the onion is soft, add the 'nduja and let it melt with a ladle of hot water and let it flavor for a few moments .
Meanwhile, cook the pasta in boiling salted water to your taste and when there are a couple of minutes left to finish cooking, drain it directly into the sauce . Raise the heat and add a little more water .
Turn off the heat and add the grated pecorino , if necessary add very little water and mix quickly . Serve your pasta 'nduja and pecorino with some basil and a drizzle of raw oil: enjoy your meal .
Pasta 'nduja and pecorino can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
Try adding some chopped nuts to your dish: if you want a delicate flavor, definitely almonds or pine nuts, for a stronger taste, walnuts!
Instead of the onion, when in season, use red spring onions!

