name:
Skillet Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Natural plain yogurt: 0.7cup(165 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: ⅔cup(130 g)
Eggs: 2- at room temperature
Sunflower seed oil: 3 ½tbsp(55 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp(10 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Sunflower seed oil: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note WARNING: if you use a gas stove, follow the cooking instructions given in the advice

instructions:
If you are looking for an easy and delicious breakfast recipe, the skillet cake is the perfect solution! A soft dessert without an oven, which has nothing to envy of traditional cupboard cakes! Thanks to the addition of yogurt and slow cooking in a skillet, this cake is incredibly soft and flavorful. Making it is really simple, the ingredients are few and all likely present in your pantry... we show you how to prepare the basic recipe, flavored with lemon zest, but you can get creative and personalize it by adding cocoa powder, chocolate chips, or fruit, as in our skillet cake with peaches ! If you love simple desserts, here are more not to be missed:
To prepare the skillet cake, first place the eggs and about half of the sugar in a bowl . Start working with an electric mixer and gradually add the remaining sugar . Continue mixing until the eggs are light and frothy. Then add the grated lemon zest .
Add a pinch of salt and mix with the mixer . Then add the yogurt and mix until well incorporated.
Now reduce the mixer's speed and slowly pour in the oil in a thin stream . In a small bowl, mix the flour with the baking powder and sift them. Gradually incorporate the dry ingredients into the mixture, still at low speed .
Once the flour and baking powder are well blended, turn off the mixer . Now grease a skillet with a base diameter of 8 inches and a top diameter of 9.5 inches with vegetable oil and heat it over low heat; if using an induction cooker, set it to 3. If using a gas stove, follow the cooking instructions in the advice section. Ensure the skillet is well greased all over, then pour the batter into it .
Cover with a lid and cook the cake this way for 45 minutes. At this point, you will see that the cake is no longer liquid and bubbles have formed. Grease a plate and flip the cake onto it. Then grease the skillet again .
Slide the cake back into the skillet and cook for another 15 minutes, at the same temperature, but this time without the lid . Once cooked, let it cool, dust with powdered sugar, and serve your skillet cake !
The skillet cake can be stored at room temperature for 2-3 days under a glass dome.
We recommend cooking this cake on an induction cooker. If you don't have one, you can also cook the cake on a classic gas stove. Use the medium burner and cook the cake on low heat; it's important to always pour the batter into an already hot skillet. The cooking times also vary: cook for 25 minutes before flipping the cake, then cook for another 5 minutes, and always perform the toothpick test before turning off the heat.
To make the skillet cake, it is recommended to use a high-sided non-stick skillet and a lid with a vent, of the right size.
You can flavor the cake with vanilla, orange, or even cinnamon.

