name:
Pork Loin with Tomato Jam
ingredients:
Pork loin: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- tied and wrapped with bacon
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves
White wine: 2.7oz(80 g)
Baby Zucchini (summer squash): 1.1lbs(500 g)
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Datterino tomatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Red onions: ½
White wine vinegar: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Green Peperoncino: ¼tsp

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The roast, the undisputed star of Sunday lunches, is a traditional dish often accompanied by a side of potatoes, another kitchen evergreen that is indispensable. Inspired by this classic dish always present in our grandmothers' recipe books, we thought to tease your taste buds with a summer variant of the roast: pork loin with cherry tomato jam. A summer main dish that will brighten your tables with the bright colors of tender baby zucchinis and a creamy cherry tomato jam with succulent sweet and sour notes. Get ready to challenge grandma's kitchen by offering the pork loin in a new guise that, we are sure, will convince even the most skeptical!
If you love this cut of meat, also try the recipe for Pork loin in a pan , easy and tasty!
To prepare the pork loin with tomato jam, first get a pre-tied pork loin, wrapped in bacon and studded with a sprig of rosemary. Alternatively, you can take the pork loin, wrap it with bacon slices and tie it with string following the instructions in our guide how to tie a roast . Insert a sprig of rosemary in the string, then salt , pepper and massage the meat to flavor it. Wash and trim the baby zucchinis . Now heat olive oil in a pan with two peeled garlic cloves .
Place the pork loin and let it brown on all sides for a couple of minutes to seal it well. Once it is golden on the surface, deglaze with white wine and let the alcohol evaporate. At this point, transfer the pork loin to a baking dish .
Add the baby zucchinis to the pan with the meat cooking juices , cover with 2 tablespoons of water, salt and sauté the zucchinis for 1 minute. Turn off the heat, remove the garlic and transfer the zucchinis and cooking juices to the baking dish with the pork loin . Cook in a preheated static oven at 340°F (170°C) for about 60-70 minutes: insert a probe to measure the internal temperature, which should reach 154°F (68°C) for optimal cooking.
While the meat is cooking, take care of the cherry tomato compote: wash and halve the cherry tomatoes , clean and slice the red onion , add the cherry tomatoes to a saucepan along with the onion .
Also add the sugar , white wine vinegar and cook over medium-high heat for about 30 minutes, halfway through cooking season with chili pepper and salt.
By the end of cooking, the cherry tomatoes will be soft and not too dry . Once the meat is also cooked, remove from the oven , cut the string with scissors, slice the meat and serve it accompanied by the zucchinis and cherry tomato compote. Garnish the dish with thyme .
You can store the pork loin with cherry tomato jam in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container. It can be frozen if you used fresh, not previously frozen ingredients, once cooked and completely cooled, perhaps in slices to thaw only the portion you need.
To further flavor the meat, you can marinate it in wine for a few hours before cooking. As an alternative to zucchinis, you can use carrots, potatoes, or squash, depending on seasonal availability. As an alternative to tomatoes, you can use apricots to make the typical English chutney.

