name:
Spaghettoni with Anchovy, Pistachios, and Candied Lemon
ingredients:
Spaghettoni: 14.1oz(400 g)
Lemons: 4- organic, untreated
Water: 2cups(500 g)
Sugar: 2cups(400 g)
Fine salt: 1tbsp(25 g)
Stale bread: 7.1oz(200 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Dried chili pepper: to taste
Bay leaves: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Sage: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Colatura di alici (fishsauce): 5 ½tbsp(80 g)- (anchovy sauce)
Extra virgin olive oil: 8.1tbsp(120 g)
Roasted Pistachios: 5.6oz(160 g)- unsalted

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Do you want to impress your guests with a dish of simple flavors but presented in a refined way?! Spaghettoni with anchovy sauce, pistachios, and candied lemon by chef Valentina Rizzo is the perfect recipe for you! A perfectly balanced main dish characterized by the savory anchovy sauce and the sweetness of the candied lemon zest. Today we will show you how to candy lemon peels at home with a quick and foolproof technique. However, to fully enjoy their aroma, we recommend letting them rest for a few hours before using them to decorate the dish! Don't underestimate the crispy bread, super aromatic thanks to the addition of herbs, which will absorb the sauce perfectly together with the spaghettoni. Try this dish yourself and discover all the flavors and aromas it will offer you bite after bite!
To prepare spaghettoni with anchovy sauce, pistachios, and candied lemon, start with the latter. Wash the lemons and peel them using a potato peeler, avoiding the white part . Now, with a knife, cut the peel into thin strips , aiming for uniform thickness and length .
In a saucepan, pour water, sugar , and salt . Bring to a boil to dissolve the sugar and salt completely .
Once the syrup comes to a boil, add the lemon peels and let them simmer for about 8-9 minutes . Drain on a cloth and place in the refrigerator.
Now prepare the crispy bread. Pour the stale bread into a mixer and blend until you get coarse crumbs . In a pan, add a drizzle of oil, a clove of garlic, rosemary, sage, dried chili pepper, and bay leaf .
Let it infuse on the stove for a couple of minutes; once the garlic starts to color, add the bread crumbs . Stir until the bread is golden brown and once ready, transfer it to a tray with paper towels to remove excess oil . Once the bread has cooled, remove the herbs.
In a bowl, pour the oil and anchovy sauce . Add a pinch of chili pepper and mix with a spoon , then add the roughly chopped toasted pistachios .
Emulsify everything well . Cook the spaghettoni al dente in unsalted boiling water . Drain them with tongs and transfer them directly into the sauce .
Stir to mix the pasta, adding a ladle of cooking water if necessary . Plate the spaghetti by creating a nest .
Finish the dish with crispy bread and zest . Serve immediately the spaghettoni with anchovy sauce, pistachios, and candied lemon!
It is recommended to consume the spaghettoni with anchovy sauce, pistachios, and candied lemon immediately.
It is preferable to prepare the candied lemon peels the day before and keep them in the refrigerator until use.
Do not throw away the syrup from the lemon peels but use it to flavor your dishes and desserts, for example, as a soak for a cake!
If you have natural pistachios, you can toast them in the oven at 350°F for 8-10 minutes, let them cool, and then chop them coarsely.
It is important to mix the pasta off the heat; otherwise, the anchovy sauce will tend to dry out and become too salty.

