name:
Savory Sponge Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 11.6oz(330 g)- (about 6) at room temperature
Sugar: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.3cups(160 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 5.3oz(150 g)
Romaine lettuce: 1.4oz(40 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 10.6oz(300 g)
Mayonnaise: 5.3oz(150 g)
Emmentaler cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time

instructions:
Did someone say party? And what could be better than a fluffy Sponge Cake filled with delicious creams to blow out the candles? But let's take a step back, to the buffet moment! Discover how to give a new look to the classic Sponge Cake base, a surprising version: Savory Sponge Cake! With the right filling, you will create layers of goodness to enjoy as an appetizer: cooked ham, cheese, lettuce, and tomato are what we chose to color and enrich this soft base, a double layer of vibrant colors and delicate taste. Unleash your creativity by making richer and more original fillings for the Savory Sponge Cake like a ricotta and ham or salmon cream, filling with grilled vegetables, zucchini flowers, or other seasonal ingredients for your birthday!
To prepare the Savory Sponge Cake, first break the eggs (at room temperature) into the bowl of a stand mixer. Then add the sugar and salt . Then whisk the mixture for about 15 minutes until it is fluffy, light, and frothy .
Sift half of the flour directly into the egg mixture and mix with a spatula or whisk from bottom to top . Sift in the remaining flour and gently combine until you get a uniform mixture . Butter and flour a 9-inch mold,
then pour the batter into it and gently level the surface by rotating the mold on the counter . Bake the savory Sponge Cake at 340°F in static mode for 30-35 minutes on the lower shelf of the oven. Once ready, remove from the oven and let it cool before removing it from the mold.
At this point, wash the tomatoes and cut them into slices . Once you've removed the sponge cake from the mold , cut it into 3 disks of the same thickness .
Start filling it by spreading half of the mayonnaise on the first layer, the cheese slices , and the cooked ham .
Place the other sponge cake layer on top and spread it with mayonnaise . Then arrange the tomato slices
the washed and dried lettuce leaves , and close with the top layer of sponge cake . The savory sponge cake is ready to be served .
The savory sponge cake can be stored for a couple of days, well wrapped in plastic wrap. It can be frozen, always in plastic wrap, for up to a month.
The savory sponge cake can be filled with the ingredients you love most. For a vegetarian version, use grilled vegetables and a mushroom sauce!

