name:
Delicious Strawberry Cheesecake
ingredients:
Cookies: 9.2oz(260 g)
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2.2lbs(500 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
Vanilla bean: 1- the seeds
Strawberry jam: 0.9cup(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Note + the time to set in the refrigerator (at least 1 hour)

instructions:
High, fresh, and creamy... with these characteristics, the delicious strawberry cheesecake is a strong contender to become the queen of summer desserts! The classic base of plain biscuits accommodates a delicious ricotta and mascarpone cream topped with a generous layer of Strawberry Jam . Great as a snack or at the end of a meal, the delicious strawberry cheesecake is also perfect for birthdays and special occasions thanks to its so inviting and scenic appearance! Discover also our Cheesecake with Crème Brûlée !
To make the delicious strawberry cheesecake, first prepare the base: melt the butter in a saucepan and let it cool slightly, meanwhile pour the biscuits into a mixer and blend to reduce them to crumbs .
Transfer the biscuits into a bowl, add the melted butter and mix well to combine . Line a 8-inch springform pan with parchment paper or acetate and pour the biscuit mixture inside .
Press down with the back of a spoon to compact the base well , then place in the refrigerator for about 15 minutes while you prepare the cream . Soak the gelatin in cold water .
Pour the cream and the seeds of the vanilla pod into a saucepan , turn on the low heat and bring to a simmer. Meanwhile, mix the ricotta and mascarpone in a bowl with a spatula to get a smooth and homogeneous cream , then add the sifted powdered sugar .
Mix again to combine . Squeeze the gelatin and add it to the hot cream , turn off the heat and stir with a whisk to dissolve it evenly .
Pour the cream and gelatin mixture into the bowl with the ricotta and mascarpone cream and mix again . At this point, take the base and pour the cream inside .
Level the surface with a spatula and let it set in the refrigerator for an hour. After this time, spread the strawberry jam over the cream and put your delicious strawberry cheesecake back in the refrigerator until ready to serve !
The delicious strawberry cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
You can flavor the cream with some lemon zest and decorate the surface with fresh strawberries if they are in season.
Use your favorite jam to customize your delicious cheesecake!

