name:
Battered Calamari
ingredients:
Squid: 1.1lbs(500 g)- cleaned
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Eggs: 1
Sparkling water: 5oz(140 g)
Lemons: 1
Salt: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
Want to discover all the secrets for perfect battered calamari? You're in the right place! Today we'll show you how to achieve a dry and light fry, thanks also to our batter ! Instead of the classic Fried Calamari this time we used squid and dipped them in a truly special batter. Made without beer, but with the addition of sparkling water and lemon juice. But what will make this batter so soft is the addition of the egg, particularly the whipped egg whites. To obtain a dry fry, it is very important to pay attention to the temperature of the oil; only by reaching the right one will your squid not absorb it and be very light!
Prepare this battered calamari and imagine enjoying them at a seaside restaurant! If you're a fan of fish main courses, especially fried, check out these recipes too:
To make the battered calamari, first squeeze the lemon . At this point, break the egg and separate the white from the yolk into two different bowls. Using electric beaters , whip the egg whites until stiff .
In another bowl, pour the flour and add a pinch of salt ; strain the lemon juice into it and add the sparkling water .
Add the yolk as well and mix well with a whisk . When you have a homogeneous mixture, add the whipped egg white , mixing gently with a spatula .
Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 20 minutes. Take the squid and cut them into rings about 1/4 inch thick . Dip them in the batter .
Mix well to completely coat the rings . Heat the oil in a large pan to a temperature of 340°F. Using a fork, drain the excess batter from the squid and immerse them in the hot oil . Fry for 2-3 minutes until golden brown, then drain them from the oil .
Transfer them to a rack with absorbent paper underneath . Transfer them to a plate, add some sea salt flakes and serve your battered calamari .
We recommend serving the battered calamari immediately.
Dip some vegetable sticks in the leftover batter and fry them!

