name:
Baked Zucchini Flowers
ingredients:
Zucchini flowers: 12
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1.3cups(300 g)
Nduja: 2.1oz(60 g)
Stracciatella cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Oregano: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste-
Breadcrumbs: 3tbsp(20 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)- grated

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 8 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
How can you resist zucchini flowers? These tasty sunrays not only fill gardens in spring and summer, but also our tables with many tantalizing recipes like these baked zucchini flowers, little treasures that contain a filling with a tantalizing and tasty flavor that won’t make you miss frying. For this recipe, we propose baking, a light and healthy cooking method without giving up the crispy touch: a tasty breadcrumb and pecorino cheese crust will create an irresistible crust, perfectly contrasting with the softness of the filling. Take advantage of the spring season to prepare many other delicacies with these delicious flowers: from the traditional battered zucchini flowers and the Neapolitan sciurilli fritters , to the more refined tagliatelle with zucchini flowers , not to mention picnic recipes like the bundles or the Savory tart with ricotta and zucchini flowers . You’ll be spoiled for choice!
To prepare the baked zucchini flowers, start with the filling: place the ricotta in a sieve over a bowl ; sift the ricotta using a spatula to make it finer .
Cut the stracciatella cheese with a knife and add it to the ricotta . Take the nduja, remove the casing that surrounds it, then spread it on a cutting board and flatten it with the knife blade
Then chop it and add it to the cheeses ; season with oregano , finally salt.
Then mix all the ingredients with a whisk . Transfer the filling into a disposable piping bag without a nozzle and set aside. Now, take care of cleaning the zucchini flowers: first, cut off the stem and remove the small leaves at the base of the flower .
To remove any soil residues, blow inside the flower and gently use a brush . Keep the internal pistil if it is still yellow; if it’s too dark, it is recommended to remove it. Now you can fill your zucchini flowers: squeeze the filling inside with the piping bag until they are almost full and then close them at the top, wrapping the tips to seal them .
Lay the stuffed zucchini flowers on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Now prepare the breading: in a small bowl, pour the grated Pecorino cheese and breadcrumbs , mix to combine the breading .
Now sprinkle the flowers with a drizzle of olive oil (this way the breading will adhere better to the flowers), then distribute the breading with a spoon and drizzle with more olive oil. Bake the zucchini flowers in a preheated oven under grill mode at 465°F for 7-8 minutes. Once baked, remove the zucchini flowers from the oven and let them cool slightly before enjoying them!
Baked zucchini flowers can be stored for a couple of days in the refrigerator in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
Don’t like the spicy flavor of nduja? Replace it with finely chopped sun-dried tomatoes in oil; they will add an irresistible touch to the filling!

