name:
Strawberry Ice Cream
ingredients:
Whole milk: 2cups(500 ml)
Strawberries: 16.7oz(500 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Egg whites: 2- medium

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus 4 hours of firming up in the freezer

instructions:
Strawberry ice cream is one of the classic flavors loved by children and adults alike! You can make everyone happy by preparing it for a refreshing and wholesome break on hot summer days. Just choose the sweetest and ripest strawberries, blend them, and add them to the milk and cream mixture. When it's ready, you can serve your strawberry ice cream in cups or small glasses to enjoy it on its own or accompanied by fresh strawberries or whipped cream, for which you can find the recipe here ! Want to present the strawberry ice cream in an even more delightful way? If you have time, you can also prepare a homemade Ice cream cone or some cat's tongue cookies to deliciously accompany your strawberry ice cream!
To prepare the strawberry ice cream, start with the strawberries: wash them under running water, let them drain in a colander , and then remove the leaves using a small knife . Then put them in the blender .
Blend until you get a smooth puree . Then strain the puree through a fine mesh sieve to remove the seeds and collect it in a small bowl . Set the strawberry puree aside and start preparing the cream: pour the milk into a large pot .
Add the sugar and place the pot on low heat, stirring until the sugar is dissolved, it will take 1-2 minutes . Then pour the fresh liquid cream into a small bowl .
Pour the egg whites into the cream and mix with a whisk . When the sugar has dissolved in the pot on the stove, add the cream and egg white mixture and bring everything to a temperature of 181°F (83°C) to pasteurize the milk and egg whites.
Once the temperature is reached , remove the pot from the heat, transfer the mixture to a small bowl and cool it quickly: to do this you can place the bowl in a large container full of ice and stir continuously. When the mixture is very cold, add the strawberry puree you made earlier .
Mix the two mixtures with a spoon and when you have a smooth and liquid cream, pour it into the ice cream maker . Turn it on and let it go for at least 30-35 minutes or until the mixture has a creamy but firm consistency . If you don't have an ice cream maker, put the liquid mixture at room temperature in the freezer inside a bowl, remembering to stir it every half hour until you get the perfect consistency.
Once ready , transfer the ice cream from the ice cream maker to a bowl and let it firm in the freezer for at least 4 hours, or better yet, overnight. When serving, you can choose to present the strawberry ice cream in cute cups and garnish with wafers. If you have time, you can also prepare cat's tongue cookies, for which you can find the recipe here !
You can store strawberry ice cream in the freezer for up to a week.
If you want to play with textures, well, after churning you can add pieces of fresh strawberries; if you want to test more complex flavors, add the seeds of a vanilla bean to the milk and sugar mixture. In both cases, you will experience something wonderful!

