name:
Barley with Tuna and Saffron
ingredients:
Tuna in oil: 3.5oz(100 g)- with lemon and black pepper, drained
Pearl barley: 1.3cups(200 g)
Saffron threads: oz(0.3 g)
Asparagus: 8.8oz(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Feta cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 26 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Spices, spices on the wall, who is the tastiest of them all? For us, saffron is undoubtedly in the first place! With its golden hues that brighten up dishes and its intense flavor, it alone is enough to give aroma and flavor to meals. From the classic saffron risotto to chicken bites, we offer dishes for every course. Here we have experimented with a fresh dish, perfect for summer lunches: cold barley with tuna and saffron, golden grains flavored with tuna, asparagus, and crumbled feta, an inviting and appetizing combination worth trying!
To make cold barley with tuna and saffron, first, boil the barley in boiling water . Flavor the cooking water with saffron threads and cook for 20 minutes (or the time indicated on the package). While the barley is cooking, prepare the asparagus. Wash them, dry them, and then cut off the woody part of the stem .
Peel them to remove the outer fibrous part and cut the stem into pieces at an angle . Then halve the tips lengthwise. Heat the oil in a pan and add all the asparagus , salt , and sauté them for 6-7 minutes over high heat, stirring often; they should remain crispy and a bright color. Once ready, let them cool.
In the meantime, the barley will have finished cooking, drain it and let it cool in a bowl. Once it is cool, add the slightly warm asparagus and the drained tuna .
Finally, crumble the feta into the bowl , mix to flavor , and serve your cold barley with tuna and saffron !
Cold barley with tuna and saffron can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
We do not recommend freezing.
To enrich the dressing, you can add tasty ingredients like Taggiasca olives, pistachios, or sun-dried tomatoes. For this preparation, we used pearl barley, which undergoes a refining process that allows immediate cooking without soaking. Alternatively, you can use hulled barley, which requires soaking for about 45 minutes, or whole barley, in which case soaking times will be longer.

