name:
Spaghetti with Shrimp, Zucchini and Soy Sprouts
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Shrimps: 14.1oz(400 g)- tails
Leeks: 5.6oz(160 g)
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(230 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Soybean sprouts: 2.8oz(80 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: 1pinch
Shrimps: 0.7oz(20 g)- the shells
Carrots: 1
White onions: 1
Celery: 1rib
Water: 8 ½cups(1.5 l)
Ground black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
One of the staples of Italian cuisine is certainly the combination of zucchini and shrimp. After various recipes already proposed, such as linguine with shrimp and zucchini or Pasta with zucchini, shrimp, and cherry tomatoes , today we have chosen to revisit it in a modern key but without straying too far from tradition. The result? Spaghetti with shrimp, zucchini, and soy sprouts... a dish that approaches Asian cuisine while remaining anchored to Italian roots. The spaghetti is not soy-based but the classic semolina kind, and the secret to this pasta's success lies in the cooking method. By cooking the spaghetti risotto-style in the bisque, they will absorb all the flavor of the shrimp, and the starch will make them very creamy! Try our version, and when you present it to your friends, it will no longer be the classic pasta with zucchini and shrimp!
To prepare the spaghetti with shrimp, zucchini, and soy sprouts, start by making the bisque. First, shell the shrimp , place the meat in the refrigerator, and set aside the shells. In a pot, pour the oil and add the coarsely chopped onion, celery, and carrot . Let them brown, then add the shells to the pot .
After a few minutes, pour in the water . Add some peppercorns and let it cook for about 30 minutes over moderate heat. Then strain everything and set the broth aside.
Wash and trim the zucchinis, then slice them first into rounds and then into fairly thin strips . Now, take care of the leek, remove the green part, and cut it to the same size as the zucchini . Retrieve the shrimp and, using a small knife, make an incision along the back to remove the intestine .
Pour the oil into a pan, add the garlic and chili (you can leave it whole or cut it in half to fry it by removing the seeds) and let them brown. Then add both the leek and zucchini and sauté them for a few minutes. Remove both the garlic and chili and add the shrimp. Sear for about 1 minute, season with salt and pepper , and turn off the heat.
Pour part of the broth into a pot and heat it. Add the spaghetti and cook them, adding another ladle of broth as needed.
Once the spaghetti are cooked, add the shrimp and zucchini , turn off the heat, add the soy sprouts , and toss everything together for a couple of minutes. Plate your spaghetti with shrimp, zucchini, and soy sprouts and serve!
You can store the spaghetti with shrimp, zucchini, and soy sprouts for up to one day in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
The dish will be good even without the risotto-style cooking, but the fish broth adds that extra touch. Seasonal vegetables are welcome instead of the ones we used. Try adding some nuts such as pine nuts, almonds, or cashews, briefly toasted in a pan for an even more distinctive flavor instead of the soy sprouts.

