name:
Tuna and Avocado Wrap with Yogurt and Daikon Sauce
ingredients:
Whole wheat flatbreads: 4-
Tuna in oil: 7.1oz(200 g)- extra virgin olive oil, drained
Daikon radish: 5.3oz(150 g)
Greek yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Avocado: 8.8oz(250 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 3 min
Makes: 4 pieces

instructions:
The tuna and avocado wraps with yogurt and daikon sauce are perfect for a summer picnic or for a quick and tasty lunch for a fresh and tasty office lunch break. The tangy notes of Greek yogurt will surprise you with the flavor of avocado and oil-packed tuna, but with an extra touch: daikon, also known as Japanese radish, which will give each bite a fresh and slightly spicy taste. Plus, they are very easy to prepare: the tuna and avocado wraps with yogurt and daikon sauce are ideal when you're very hungry but have little time to prepare a tasty meal. Discover with us how to best fill them and we are sure they will completely replace the usual quick sandwich!
To prepare the tuna and avocado wraps with yogurt and daikon sauce, start with the yogurt and daikon sauce: peel the daikon , cut it into cubes , and then blend it into a puree .
Once blended, transfer the daikon to a bowl and add the Greek yogurt , mix well to get a homogeneous sauce, season with salt and pepper. Set aside.
Take the avocado and cut it in half , remove the pit with the help of a knife, slicing it to extract it more easily , and peel it, if it is very ripe it will come off easily otherwise you can cut the pulp and extract it with a teaspoon.
Slice the avocado pulp . At this point take a tortilla and put one or two tablespoons of yogurt and daikon sauce in the center of the tortilla . Place some avocado slices on top of the sauce .
Take the tuna, drain it to avoid excess oil , and place it on top of the avocado and sauce, always in the center of the tortilla . At this point, you can proceed to close the tortilla, starting from the sides .
Fold the bottom side like an envelope , then roll the tortilla on itself , folding the edges inside to keep the filling from escaping . Repeat the same steps for the others.
Then place each wrap on a hot grill, making sure to place the closure side first on the grill so it seals . Leave on the grill for 30 seconds, then turn the wrap to the other side and let it sear for another 30 seconds. Once removed from the grill, cut the wrap in half and serve your tuna and avocado wraps with yogurt and daikon sauce .
The wraps can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day, provided they have not been grilled, so that the ingredients preserve better. The yogurt and daikon sauce can be stored for one day in the refrigerator, in a jar or a bowl covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended.
For a more fragrant and tasty sauce, add a bit of lime zest and thyme to the blended daikon and Greek yogurt.

