name:
Vegan Crostino
ingredients:
Homemade bread: 7.1oz(200 g)- (4 slices)
Extra virgin olive oil: 7.1tbsp(100 g)
Tofu: 3.5oz(100 g)
Unsalted pistachios: ¼cup(50 g)
Basil: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Yellow cherry tomatoes: ½cup(100 g)
Taggiasca olives: 1oz(30 g)
Carrots: 2.8oz(80 g)
Bean sprouts: 1oz(30 g)
Oregano: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Having an appetizer in mind? As always, the challenge will be to bring appetizing dishes to the buffet table that everyone will agree on: from the vegan friend to the neighbor watching their figure. Here is the solution for you: the vegan crostino, a gourmet appetizer that will make you look great. Our vegan crostino consists of a fragrant base of toasted and flavored bread topped with a special pâté with a refined touch, all to be discovered. When it comes to crostini, Cherry Tomato Preserve are a must, and we are no exception, but don't expect the usual pachino or datterino: for this eccentric crostino, we have chosen an ancient and unusual variety with a golden color and fruity flavor, from which the name "pomo d'oro" derives. The whirlwind of flavors doesn't end here: a handful of Taggiasca olives for a bold note and a nest of beet sprouts that will leave everyone speechless. Are you ready to find out how to make this inviting and scenic vegan crostino? To complete your buffet, you could also prepare a scenic Tofu and Eggplant Millefeuille or a delicious Vegan Spreadable Cheese !
To make the vegan crostino, place the bread slices on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, drizzle them with olive oil and oregano , then toast them in a preheated oven at 465°F in grill mode for 5 minutes .
Now take care of the cream to spread on the crostino: cut the tofu into cubes . Set aside a few cubes to decorate the crostini later, and place the rest in a mixer , then add the pistachios ,
the basil leaves , and 1/3 of the olive oil required by the recipe , and start blending in short bursts to combine the ingredients. Then pour in the remaining olive oil ,
season with salt , and blend again intermittently until you get a homogeneous and creamy mixture . Wash and trim the carrots, then peel them and use the same peeler to cut thin strips .
Layer the carrot strips , then fold the strips in half and cut them into thin julienne strips .
Wash the yellow cherry tomatoes and cut them into wedges . Everything is ready to assemble the vegan crostino: spread the tofu and pistachio pâté on the crostini , place a layer of julienned carrots on top, followed by the red beet sprouts ,
the yellow cherry tomatoes, and the tofu cubes you set aside . Finish with the Taggiasca olives and fresh basil leaves. Drizzle with a bit of oil, season with salt, and finally cut the crostini in half . Your vegan crostino is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the vegan crostino immediately and freezing is not advised.
Have fun varying your vegan crostino with many other colorful and enticing ingredients: fennel, pachino tomatoes, and perhaps some radishes for a tangy note! If you can't find beet sprouts, you can replace them with bean sprouts. Alternatively, to maintain the vibrant color of the crostino, you can make a julienne of raw beetroot, being careful to soak the julienne in cold water before topping the crostino to set the color!

