name:
Italian-style Couscous
ingredients:
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- already cleaned
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- purged
Couscous: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Saffron: 1bag
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Datterino tomatoes: 10.6oz(300 g)
Sultan grapes: 1.4oz(40 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Pistachios: ½cup(70 g)- toasted and unsalted
Extra virgin olive oil: 5tbsp(70 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
If we say couscous, what comes to mind? Probably a trip you took to Morocco and the spicy aromas of that splendid place. But Moroccan Couscous is not the only dish you can prepare with these tasty grains. In fact, couscous is also widely used in Italy, especially in Sardinia and Sicily. And it is right here that one of the most beautiful festivals, the couscous fest of San Vito lo Capo, takes place in September, where you can savor countless variations. Today we prepare Italian-style couscous, a dish rich in Mediterranean flavors and bold tastes like saffron. Mussels, clams, and lemon will pair perfectly with freshly made pistachio pesto! So what are you waiting for? Prepare Italian-style couscous yourself; it will be your summer standout dish! And if you love couscous, try our vegetable version too!
To prepare Italian-style couscous, make sure you have pre-cleaned mussels and purged clams, or you can follow our guide on how to clean mussels and How to clean clams . Once done, prepare the pistachio pesto. Place them in a mixer container, add the basil leaves , and season with salt and pepper. Then pour the oil and blend for a few seconds until you get your pistachio pesto. Transfer it to a small bowl and set it aside.
At this point, pour 2 tablespoons of oil into a sufficiently large pan, add 2 peeled garlic cloves and a chili pepper . Let them brown for a few moments, then first add the mussels and then the clams .
Cover with a lid and sauté for a few moments. As soon as they open, remove them from the heat and strain them to separate the cooking water from the shellfish.
Pour the liquid into a pitcher and add a packet of saffron ; stir quickly until it's colored. Then transfer the couscous into a baking dish, add a pinch of salt and a drizzle of oil . Pour in the saffron cooking liquid until it completely covers the couscous
and cover with plastic wrap . Set aside for about 5 minutes, during which the couscous will swell, and in the meantime, rehydrate the raisins. Place them in a small bowl and cover with the remaining saffron liquid; if there's none left, you can use some hot water . Retrieve the couscous, remove the plastic wrap, and transfer it to a large bowl ; then, using your hands or a fork, fluff it up.
Shell the mussels and clams, leaving some with their shells for the final decoration , and cut the cherry tomatoes in half . Then add both to the couscous .
Drain the raisins and add them as well, slightly squeezing them with your hands . Mix everything, also adding the grated lemon zest and some basil leaves. Then plate and serve your Italian-style couscous by adding a few drops of pistachio pesto.
It is recommended to consume the Italian-style couscous immediately; alternatively, it can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 day.
Add some sautéed shrimp for a few minutes and use turmeric instead of saffron!

