name:
Pasta Salad with Eggplants and Sun-Dried Tomatoes
ingredients:
Rigatoni: 11.3oz(320 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Eggplant: 10.6oz(300 g)
Pine nuts: 6 ½tbsp(60 g)
Peperoncino: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Basil: 20leaves
Salted ricotta cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Shallot: 1.4oz(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Pasta salad is a summer main course that can be made in a thousand ways, even with Pasta salad with agretti and prawns ! Today, we invite you to try the version with eggplants and sun-dried tomatoes, with all the flavors of Mediterranean cuisine: delicious both hot and cold, it can become a convenient packed lunch to take to the beach, or brighten up the table for a family lunch! The bold taste of sun-dried tomatoes, the crunchy counterpoint of toasted pine nuts, the spiciness of chili pepper, and the softness of grilled eggplants create a symphony of flavors that wins everyone over with its simple goodness. For an “all-eggplant” menu, we also recommend delicate Eggplant caviar to serve as an appetizer, and crunchy eggplant meatballs to follow. Let yourself be carried away by the tasty purple vortex of this extraordinary vegetable, one of the symbols of the Mediterranean summer table, and try other recipes for quick and easy cold pasta!
To prepare the pasta salad with eggplants and sun-dried tomatoes, start by cutting the sun-dried tomatoes into thin strips . Then remove the seeds from the fresh chili pepper and cut it into very thin strips as well . Then cut the eggplant into 4 wedges, and slice each wedge into 1/8 inch (3-4 mm) slices .
Grill the eggplant slices on a hot griddle for about 2 minutes per side . Toast the pine nuts in a non-stick pan for 3-4 minutes, being careful not to burn them . At this point, throw the rigatoni into boiling salted water .
While the pasta is cooking, sauté the chopped shallot in large pieces in a pan where you have heated the oil over high heat , then add the chili pepper and a ladle of pasta cooking water .
Cover with a lid and cook for a couple of minutes . Then add the sun-dried tomatoes and extend with a little more pasta cooking water .
Drain the pasta al dente, and add it to the sauce in the pan . Also add the eggplants and the toasted pine nuts .
Sauté the pasta for a couple of minutes, then sprinkle it with grated salted ricotta , coarsely hand-torn basil , and serve your pasta salad with eggplants and sun-dried tomatoes hot or cold according to your taste !
Pasta salad with eggplants and sun-dried tomatoes can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to the day after preparation.
If you prefer, you can replace the eggplants with zucchini prepared the same way, or add anchovy fillets to give your dish a hint of the sea!

