name:
Beef Tartare on Bruschetta
ingredients:
Beef filet: 4.2oz(120 g)- very fresh
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Salt: to taste
Chives: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Dijon mustard: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Acacia honey: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Lemon juice: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Tabasco®: to taste
Baguette: 2.1oz(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Oregano: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 8 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Are you in search of refined and tantalizing ideas to make your appetizer or an important dinner more appetizing? Here's the perfect mix, fresh and crunchy: beef tartare on bruschetta! An elegant finger food, a delightful meeting of flavors that will please the most discerning palates, to be tried as an alternative to the classic steak tartare . Discover how to create fragrant "spoons" of bread on which to lay this tasty beef tartare , enhanced with flakes of salt and chives. To add an even more original touch, a few drops of delicate mustard sauce... and your easy, quick, and gourmet touch tartare on bruschetta will be ready to serve!
If you love raw dishes, try the marinated salmon crostini , a tasty fish alternative for an equally easy and quick appetizer!
To prepare the beef tartare on bruschetta, start with the latter: cut the baguette into oblique slices of 1/4 inch ; then line a baking sheet with parchment paper and place 3 wooden spoons on it. The handles of the spoons will serve to give a boat shape to your bread slices. Place the slices, one by one, and press them without breaking to shape them . Instead of spoons, you can use cannoli molds if you have them. Season the bread slices with olive oil
and oregano . Place in a preheated convection oven at 375°F for 10 minutes, or until the bread is golden brown, then remove them from the oven and let cool slightly . Now take care of the meat: take the beef fillet (very fresh), place it on a cutting board, and trim off any excess fat if present. Then cut the meat into strips
and then into cubes . Finely chop the beef cubes with a knife on the cutting board until you get a soft and creamy consistency .
Transfer the meat to a bowl, season with olive oil , salt flakes , a grind of black pepper, and chopped chives . Mix and set aside for a moment.
Now, prepare the accompanying sauce: squeeze the lemon juice . In a small bowl, pour the mustard, add the lemon juice , and season with a few drops of Tabasco .
Finally, add the acacia honey and emulsify everything with a teaspoon . Assemble the tartare on bruschetta: place the toasted bread slices on a serving plate with the concave side up ,
place a bit of tartare , season with a few drops of mustard sauce , and continue with the others; enjoy your beef tartare on bruschetta immediately !
Store beef tartare on bruschetta in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day. The accompanying sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
It is advisable to prepare the beef tartare on bruschetta with freshly purchased meat; you can also buy topside to make the tartare.
For safe raw meat consumption, it is recommended to buy very fresh meat and not to consume it if you notice any changes in color or odor. For further information, please refer to the guidelines provided by the relevant health authority in your country.

