name:
Spaghetti with Clams and Nduja
ingredients:
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Nduja: 1.4oz(40 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 2 h for cleaning the clams

instructions:
Only those who dare can discover new horizons of flavor, and spaghetti with clams and nduja is precisely an innovative and unusual dish, a culinary gamble with strong and decisive flavors. For this alternative recipe, we started with a classic fish dish with Mediterranean flavors like spaghetti alle vongole , enriching it with one of the most flavorful ingredients of Calabrian cuisine: nduja, a particular spreadable and spicy sausage that will give a special flavor to this first course, whose secrets we will reveal here!
Come and discover other delicious Mediterranean dishes:
Discover more delicious Spaghetti recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare spaghetti with clams and nduja, start by cleaning the clams. Make sure there are no broken or empty shells, they should be discarded. Then proceed to tap them against the sink or possibly on a cutting board. This operation is important to check for sand inside: healthy bivalves will remain closed, while those full of sand will open. Then place the clams in a colander placed over a bowl and rinse them. Then pour them into a bowl and add plenty of coarse salt. Leave the clams to soak for 2 hours . After this time, the clams will have purged any sand residues, rinse them again and drain them . Finely chop the parsley .
In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil. Then add a clove of garlic . Add the clams . Close with the lid and cook for a few minutes over high heat. The clams will open with the heat, so shake the pan occasionally until they have completely opened.
Meanwhile, bring a pot full of salted water to a boil, as soon as it boils add the spaghetti and cook until al dente. When the clams are all open, immediately turn off the heat, otherwise the clams will overcook. Drain them , collect the cooking water and discard the garlic. Shell part of the clams and keep others whole .
Then pour the clam water into the same pan, add the nduja without the casing and stir to combine. Drain the spaghetti here and continue cooking using a bit of the pasta cooking water .
At the end of cooking, add the clams and the chopped parsley , a drizzle of oil, and a good grind of black pepper. Now the spaghetti with clams and nduja are ready to be served .
We recommend consuming the spaghetti with clams and nduja immediately.
We recommend salting the water sparingly as both the clams and the nduja will be very flavorful.
If you like strong flavor combinations, also try the recipe for pasta with clams and broccoli !

