name:
Fish Meatballs
ingredients:
Cod: 1.5lbs(700 g)- fillet
Bread: 3.5oz(100 g)- crumb
Parsley: 1tuft
Thyme: to taste
Eggs: 2- (medium)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- (to grate)
Type 00 flour: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 4 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Fish meatballs are crispy and aromatic bites, made with good cod, bread, and a mixture of thyme and parsley. Just a spin of the blades in the mixer will give you the right consistency for the mixture. It's up to you to decide whether to make small meatballs, perfect as an appetizer with a fresh and spicy homemade sauce, or larger ones, like a classic meatball , to enjoy as a main fish dish accompanied by a seasonal vegetable side. Fish balls, which can be cooked both fried and baked, will also be loved by children... try the version with tuna and ricotta for them, easy and even more delicious!
Come and discover other variations of these tasty meatballs:
To prepare the fish meatballs, start by placing the bread crumbs in a mixer , blend finely , and put them in a bowl. Remove the bones from the cod fillets with the help of tweezers and chop them in the mixer for a few seconds .
Mix the chopped cod with the bread in a bowl . Wash and chop the parsley , then add it to the bowl along with the thyme.
Season with the crushed garlic and grated cheese . Then incorporate the two eggs .
Adjust with salt and pepper. Mix well to combine everything and form walnut-sized balls with about 30 g of mixture with your hands .
Place the meatballs on a tray as you go, you will get about 20-25 . Then pass them in the flour .

Fry the meatballs, 2 or 3 at a time, in well-heated vegetable oil, at about 340°F, for about 3 minutes. When the meatballs are golden, remove them from the oil with a slotted spoon and place them on paper towels to dry the excess oil. Enjoy the fish meatballs hot or warm !
We recommend consuming the fish meatballs immediately.
Try them baked: cook them at 400°F in a convection mode for 25 minutes, making sure to turn them after 15 minutes for even cooking. Fry a few meatballs at a time to prevent lowering the oil temperature.
If you have vegetarian guests, also prepare these delicious veggie balls !

