name:
Risotto with Carrots and Breadcrumbs
ingredients:
Rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)- S. Andrea
Carrots: 2.3cups(250 g)
Garlic: 3cloves
Shallot: 1
White wine: 0.3cup(80 g)
Vegetable broth: to taste
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Stale bread: 2oz(60 g)
Sweet Paprika: ¾tsp
Pecorino cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)- (to be grated)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare the carrot risotto with breadcrumbs, start by peeling the carrots and cutting them into thin slices . Clean and finely chop the shallot and rosemary .
In a saucepan, pour a dash of oil, add the shallot and peeled garlic cloves , and let them stew over low heat . Then add the carrots .
Season with the chopped rosemary . Salt and pepper the carrots and cook for about 10 minutes, adding one or two ladlefuls of broth . Remove the garlic at the end of cooking.
Transfer the carrots to a tall glass and blend with an immersion blender until a creamy consistency is achieved . If necessary, add a little more broth.
In the same saucepan where you cooked the carrots, heat a dash of oil and toast the rice . Deglaze with the white wine . Once the wine has evaporated, pour in the carrot cream .
Now continue cooking the rice for about 15-20 minutes, adding more broth as needed . Meanwhile, prepare the breadcrumbs: chop the stale bread in a mixer to obtain coarse crumbs. In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, the bread crumbs , and the paprika .
Toast the breadcrumbs until golden and set aside . When the rice is cooked , turn off the heat and cream with the Pecorino cheese .
Add a dash of oil and mix well, then adjust with salt and pepper. Garnish the dishes with the toasted bread . The carrot risotto with breadcrumbs is ready to be served !
We recommend consuming the carrot risotto with breadcrumbs immediately. If there are leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator for a couple of days and then make a sautéed rice or gratin rice in the oven. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of rosemary, you can use other aromatic herbs such as thyme, parsley, or sage.
For a lighter and more delicate creaming, you can opt for a fresh creamy cheese like robiola.

