name:
Spaghetti alla Luciana
ingredients:
Baby octopuses: 4.4lbs(1.5 kg)
Spaghetti Quadrati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)- thick
Peeled tomatoes: 8 ½cups(2 l)
Garlic: 1clove
Hot peppers: 2
White wine: 1.4oz(40 g)
Black olives: 1.8oz(50 g)- pitted
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 2 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Spaghetti alla Luciana is a first course from Campania, specifically from the city of Naples. From the maritime tradition, this dish gathers all Mediterranean flavors in a truly delicious sauce! The baby octopuses will release all their flavor and will be very tender thanks to a long cooking time. By using canned tomatoes, you will get a rustic and hearty sauce, enriched by black olives and parsley. This recipe originally comes from reusing the sauce of Polpo alla luciana , so by preparing it you can bring to the table a second course, as well as a first course, using the sauce to dress the pasta. We've opted for square spaghetti, which with their thickness perfectly absorb the condiment. Prepare this recipe as well, we are sure you will make it often due to its simplicity and unique taste! Discover other recipes with octopus:
Discover more delicious Spaghetti recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare Spaghetti alla Luciana, start by cleaning the baby octopuses. Quickly rinse them under water . Now thoroughly clean the inside of the head and remove the beak in the middle of the tentacles .
Also remove the eye parts , wash well under water and continue in this way for the others. Move on to the sauté. Chop the chili pepper , removing the seeds for a less spicy effect. Peel and crush a garlic clove.
Now in a large pan with high sides, pour a drizzle of oil; add the garlic clove and the chopped chili pepper . Let it sauté over low heat for a few minutes, then add the baby octopuses and increase the heat. Let them brown for a few minutes, then deglaze with white wine . As soon as the alcohol has evaporated, add the crushed tomatoes with a fork .
Let it cook uncovered for 2 hours over low heat , until the sauce has thickened and the baby octopuses are tender . Cook the spaghetti in plenty of salted boiling water .
In the meantime, finely chop the parsley , add the olives to the sauce and also add a ladle of pasta cooking water and adjust the salt .
When the spaghetti is al dente, drain it and transfer it directly to the pan with the sauce. Add the chopped parsley and toss, adding another ladle of pasta cooking water if needed. Plate and serve your Spaghetti alla Luciana.
You can store the sauce in the refrigerator for a day. Instead, we recommend serving the pasta immediately.
In addition to olives, at the end of cooking, you can add previously desalted capers. Olives are added only at the end so as not to overshadow the fish's flavor, but if you prefer, you can add them at the beginning.
You can also use musky octopus instead of baby octopuses, always checking the cooking, which varies in both cases depending on the size.

