name:
Neapolitan Sandwiches
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3.8cups(450 g)
Water: ½cup(125 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(125 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(15 g)
Lard: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Mortadella: 4.4oz(125 g)- whole piece
Neapolitan salami: 4.4oz(125 g)- whole piece
Spicy Provolone cheese: 4.4oz(125 g)
Eggs: 4- hard-boiled
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)- to grate
Black pepper: to taste
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + at least 2 hours of rising and 30 minutes of cooling in the refrigerator

instructions:
A famous song by the late Neapolitan singer-songwriter Pino Daniele is dedicated to Fortunato, who has the good stuff , referring to the delicacies he used to sell around Naples, transporting the food on a specially adapted stroller. He was well known for his excellent Taralli lard and pepper and more. The Neapolitan sandwiches, also known as pagnottielli or pagnuttielli , were one of the many specialties he promoted on the streets, drawing attention with a whistle, shouts, or a bell! These are soft sandwiches made with pizza dough - sometimes enriched with a bit of lard just like used for tortano or casatiello - that are filled with eggs, cold cuts, and mozzarella. An original way to reuse leftover dough, which has given rise to myths and legends about this preparation. There are those who prepare them as we present them to you, those who make them like stuffed sandwiches, and even those who propose balls from which pieces of filling stick out... lard yes, lard no is purely discretionary. In short, our research stopped at a certain point, but we are sure of one thing: Neapolitan sandwiches are among the Neapolitan street foods that you will hardly be able to resist!
Don't miss these specialties of Neapolitan cuisine as well:
To prepare the Neapolitan sandwiches, first, crumble the yeast into a large bowl and add the water . Stir with a fork to dissolve it , then add the milk .
Add the salt and about 2/3 of the flour . Stir with a wooden spoon , then add the remaining flour and stir again.
When the flour is completely absorbed, transfer the dough to the work surface ; Add the lard and knead until you get a homogeneous mixture .
Form a ball and put it in a bowl to rise, covering it with plastic wrap . Let it rise for a couple of hours or until doubled. Meanwhile, prepare the filling. Place the eggs in a saucepan, cover with water, and cook for 9 minutes from boiling .
Meanwhile, dice the salami, mortadella , and cheese. Once the eggs are cooked, cool them under running water and peel them . Slice them and mash them with a fork in another bowl .
Add the diced cold cuts and cheeses and mix . When the dough has doubled in volume , transfer it to a lightly floured surface and, with a little flour, roll it out to obtain a rectangle of approximately 16x14 inches.
Pour the filling and distribute it evenly with your hands . Add plenty of black pepper .
Sprinkle with grated pecorino cheese . Roll up from the shorter side . Once finished, seal the ends well with your fingers .
Transfer to a tray lined with parchment paper and refrigerate for 30 minutes. After this time, it will be easier to cut it into 8 equal pieces . Place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Beat an egg yolk with a little cream or milk and use it to brush the Neapolitan sandwiches . Bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for about 35 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool slightly before serving.
Neapolitan sandwiches can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. We recommend warming them up before serving.
Instead of lard, you can use the same amount of extra virgin olive oil or the same quantity of butter. To make the dough, if you prefer, you can replace the milk with the same amount of water. You can use your preferred cold cuts and also choose other types of cheeses.

