name:
Caramelized Peaches
ingredients:
Nectarines: 2
Sugar: to taste
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Butter: 0.7tbsp(10 g)- (room temperature)
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)
Vanilla bean: to taste
Gelato: to taste- 4 scoops, flavors of your choice
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
According to food writer Niki Segnit, author of The Flavor Thesaurus, as a high-society lady in the early 1900s, you were nobody if you didn't have a peach-based dessert dedicated to you. Peaches cooked in vanilla and decorated with violets and sugar threads for Sarah Bernhardt, with champagne zabaglione for Empress Eugenia, or with alpine strawberry ice cream for Zola's muse. But today, let's start with the basics: caramelized peaches! The perfect dessert to prepare at the last minute for your guests to beautifully conclude a summer dinner. Warm nectarine peaches will be the perfect base to welcome a scoop of your favorite ice cream or some soft and creamy dollops of whipped cream. And for the most indulgent? The caramel sauce will satisfy even them! Prepare caramelized peaches, and all that will be left to do is find a diva to dedicate this dessert to... like your mom, for example!
To prepare the caramelized peaches, start by preheating the static oven to 350°F, then move on to the peaches: wash them , cut them in half , and remove the pit by scoring it with a small knife .
Dip the peach halves in sugar, flesh side down , then place them in small baking dishes and transfer them onto a baking sheet or tray ; then bake them in the preheated oven at 350°F for 25 minutes .
Meanwhile, take care of the caramel: in a large saucepan, pour the water and add the sugar . Without stirring, turn on the heat and boil the water and sugar mixture until you get a nice amber color.
While the caramel is cooking, place the room temperature butter cut into pieces in a small bowl. Then, with a knife, scrape the seeds from the tip of the vanilla bean and add them to the butter , mixing everything with a spoon to blend well .
When the caramel has turned amber, remove the saucepan from the heat and, stirring with a whisk, slowly add the cream, being careful as it will foam up a lot (13-14). Continue mixing the cream into the caramel, then add the vanilla-flavored butter
and mix well until all the ingredients are well combined and the caramel is thick and rich . Meanwhile, your peaches will be ready: take them out of the oven and pour a generous ladle of caramel over each peach, directly in each small baking dish .
Add a scoop of your favorite ice cream , garnish with a mint leaf , and serve . Your caramelized peaches are ready to be enjoyed!
It is recommended to enjoy the caramelized peaches immediately. If you want to get ahead, you can bake the peaches up to a day before, but it is advisable to prepare the caramel and add it only when serving, along with the ice cream.
For an even more unique flavor, you can replace the vanilla with lemon zest or ground cinnamon and mix them with the butter that will go into the caramel.

