name:
Roasted Eggplants
ingredients:
Eggplant: 2
Caciocavallo cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Bean sprouts: 1.1oz(30 g)
Alfafa sprouts: 1.1oz(30 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1cup(150 g)
Oregano: to taste-
Basil: to taste-
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste-
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus 1 hour to purge the eggplants

instructions:
For painters, it is the blank canvas, for graffiti artists a crumbling wall in the suburbs, for composers the empty staff, for architects a piece of bare land. But did you ever think that the white sheet on which to unleash your creativity could be an eggplant? Here they are, our oven-roasted eggplants! With creamy flesh, gooey cheese, and colorful sprouts, cherry tomatoes, and aromatic herbs. Beet and alfalfa sprouts, also known as alfalfa sprouts, will add color to this Mediterranean recipe that you'll be eager to bring to the table, especially in the summer season when eggplants are known for their sweetness! So what are you waiting for? Unleash your imagination and use the ingredients you love the most to enrich these delicious roasted eggplants!
To prepare the roasted eggplants, first wash the eggplants and cut them in half lengthwise . Then, with a small knife, score the flesh, without reaching the skin, to form a grid . Sprinkle generously with fine salt .
Massage the eggplant with your hands to let the salt penetrate inside . Place the eggplants upside down on a rack and let them drain for at least an hour . At this point, rinse them under running water .
Pat them dry with a paper towel . Place the eggplants on a baking sheet and bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for 20 minutes. In the meantime, grate the caciocavallo cheese with a coarse grater .
After the first 20 minutes of cooking, remove the eggplants from the oven, sprinkle with the caciocavallo cheese and bake again for another 20 minutes at the same temperature. Meanwhile, cut the cherry tomatoes into 8 parts and set them aside. Combine the two types of sprouts in a bowl, add the basil leaves, tearing them with your hands .
Salt and mix everything . At this stage, it is advisable not to add oil because the sprouts might wilt. After the additional 20 minutes of cooking, remove the eggplants from the oven , the cheese will be completely melted. Cover the eggplants with the sprouts .
And also place the cherry tomatoes on top. Drizzle with a bit of oil and some fresh oregano leaves and serve your roasted eggplants .
It is recommended to consume the roasted eggplants immediately. Freezing is not recommended.
If you don't like or can't find sprouts, you can replace them with another ingredient, such as arugula!

