name:
Spaghetti with Eggplant and Zucchini Sauce
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 12.3oz(350 g)
Tomato purée: 3cups(700 g)
Eggplant: 0.9lb(400 g)
Zucchini: 14.1oz(400 g)
Red spring onions: ½
White wine: ½glass
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
"How do I dress the pasta today?" How many times have you asked yourself this question? We have the solution: spaghetti with eggplant and zucchini sauce! An easy and tasty first course with decidedly summer flavors. The sauce based on tomatoes, eggplants, and zucchini transforms into a sort of vegetable ragù perfect for those who prefer not to consume meat or in summer want to enjoy a light dish. Prepare with us the spaghetti with eggplant and zucchini sauce and discover how delicious it is!
Other appetizing pasta dishes await you here with really tasty seasonings:
To prepare spaghetti with eggplant and zucchini sauce, start with the vegetables. After cleaning the eggplants , cut them into small cubes and finely chop a portion .
Then cut the zucchini into small cubes , and finally clean the spring onion and chop it coarsely .
In a large saucepan, heat a drizzle of oil and sauté the onion for a few minutes . Then add the eggplants and then the zucchini .
After about 15 minutes of cooking, deglaze with the wine . When the alcohol evaporates, add the tomato purée . Cook on low heat for about 30 minutes, stirring occasionally ; adjust with salt, and remember that if the bottom dries out too much, you can add water as needed.
Cook the spaghetti in plenty of salted water and remember to drain them al dente. Meanwhile, chop some parsley , and when the pasta is ready, toss it in the sauce .
After a quick stir, turn off the heat and finish with chopped parsley and grated Parmigiano Reggiano . Your spaghetti with eggplant and zucchini sauce is ready .
Once ready, you can enjoy the spaghetti with eggplant and zucchini sauce immediately or, if you wish, store them for a day.
The sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
You can also freeze it if you want.
Bell peppers would be a great addition, so if you love their rich flavor, take advantage!

