name:
Salmon and Zucchini Tart
ingredients:
Eggs: 3.7oz(105 g)- (2)
Sunflower seed oil: 5tbsp(70 g)
Whole milk: (70 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 2tsp(6 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Zucchini: 3 ½cups(160 g)- 1 zucchini
Smoked Salmon: 3.5oz(100 g)
Cream cheese: 0.9cup(200 g)
Lemons: 3slices
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
The salmon and zucchini tart is a tasty savory version of the sweet tart made with the special tart pan. For those who are not yet familiar with it, this special pan allows you to create a base, sweet or savory, with a convenient cavity inside to fill with the most tantalizing fillings: with ganache , Soft tart with melon cream or with a savory filling, like the one we propose here. Soft curls of cream cheese, roses of smoked salmon, and pan-fried zucchini, a colorful and tasty mix that will not go unnoticed on your summer table!
Come and discover other delicious savory tarts to make at home:
To make the salmon and zucchini tart, place the eggs with a pinch of salt in a bowl and mix with a whisk. Add the oil and the milk and mix.
Add the all-purpose flour and the instant yeast , and mix the batter again with the whisk .
You should obtain a smooth and lump-free batter . Butter and flour a 9-inch tart pan with a removable bottom.
Pour the batter and distribute it evenly by rotating the pan. Bake in a preheated oven, on the middle rack, in static mode at 350°F for 25 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the filling: wash and slice the zucchini into rounds , place them in a pan with oil and salt, and sauté for 6-8 minutes, the zucchini should remain slightly crispy.
Once cooked, place them on a plate and let them cool down . In a bowl, soften the cream cheese with a little oil .
Transfer the cheese into a pastry bag with a star tip . Remove the base from the oven and let it cool at room temperature for 30-40 minutes. Unmold the tart and turn it onto a plate .
Pipe cheese curls with the pastry bag until the cavity formed during baking is completely filled. Also, arrange the zucchini rounds . Cut the smoked salmon into strips, roll them up, and form small roses .
Place the salmon roses on the soft tart, interspersing them with the zucchini , cut the lemon slices into wedges, and finish the salmon and zucchini tart.
The salmon and zucchini tart can be kept for up to 1 day in the refrigerator; freezing is not recommended. The soft savory base without filling can be kept wrapped in plastic wrap for 2 days in the refrigerator.
You can replace the salmon with shrimp or langoustines. If using a fan oven, lower the temperature to 320°F.

