name:
Cold Pasta
ingredients:
Fusilli pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Zucchini: 1cup(200 g)
Carrots: 5.3oz(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peas: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Mortadella: 3.5oz(100 g)
Emmentaler cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Thyme: 1sprig
Basil: to taste-

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus the cooling time of the pasta

instructions:
When the warm season arrives, cold pasta is the ideal solution if you don't want to give up a tasty and rich meal! An easy and quick recipe to prepare, which lends itself to many delicious variations, like the alla norma , or the with pesto . Today we are offering you one that is equally tasty and colorful with zucchini, carrots, and peas, along with the addition of diced mortadella and Emmentaler cheese. Aromatic herbs are a must... thyme and basil give an irresistible aroma to the cold pasta, adding an extra touch to your dish. With cold pasta, it's impossible not to please everyone, and if you're in the mood for a light yet tasty dish, this is the perfect recipe for you!
Here are other cold first courses not to be missed:
To prepare cold pasta, first bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Wash and peel the carrots, trim them, and cut them into strips about 1 inch and 1/4 long . Do the same with the zucchini: wash them and trim them, then cut them into strips approximately the same size as the carrots to ensure even cooking. When the water is boiling, add the carrots and zucchini .
and the peas and blanch them for 2-3 minutes. Drain the vegetables with a slotted spoon, keeping the cooking water in the pot , and transfer the vegetables to a bowl of ice water to stop the cooking and maintain a bright color.
Cook the pasta in the same water where you blanched the vegetables and cook it al dente. In the meantime, you can prepare the rest of the ingredients to dress the pasta: wash and quarter the cherry tomatoes , then cut the mortadella
and cheese into cubes . When the pasta is very al dente, drain it and transfer it to a bowl; dress it with a drizzle of olive oil and mix well to prevent it from becoming sticky; let it cool to room temperature.
Once cold, drain the vegetables from the ice water and transfer them to another bowl to combine with the thyme leaves , basil leaves , cherry tomatoes, and mortadella cubes ,
cheese cubes , and finally the now cold pasta. Pepper to taste, mix to distribute all the ingredients well , and plate: your cold pasta is ready to be served !
You can store the cold pasta for 2 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container. Cold pasta cannot be frozen.
For this cold pasta, we chose fusilli, but you can use any other type of short pasta, and you can dress it with the vegetables you prefer. For a vegetarian version, you can omit the mortadella. Remember not to oversalt the cooking water to avoid overseasoning the vegetables!

