name:
Potato and Zucchini Salad
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Zucchini: 1lb(450 g)
Red onions: 6.3oz(180 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Corn: 5.3oz(150 g)- (precooked)
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 7tbsp(100 g)
Mustard: 1spoonful
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Want a fresh side salad ? Don't worry: we're not talking about a dish of arugula or lettuce, but a colorful, rich side perfect for the summer season: potato and zucchini salad! A step up from the potato salad , with the addition of zucchini that are also steamed to keep them firm and vibrant. Additionally, red onions, cherry tomatoes, fresh basil leaves, and precooked corn. To make this potato and zucchini salad even more flavorful, a quick and tasty dressing similar to that for the chicken and pepper salad : oil, mustard, salt, and pepper mixed together to create a creamy and balanced sauce. This summer, don't fear the usual lack of appetite due to the heat, because we'll help you regain your appetite. Let's get started!
Try also the potato and salmon salad , perfect as a main dish, or the pan-fried potatoes and zucchini, ideal as a side dish!
To prepare the potato and zucchini salad, start with the vegetables. Peel the potatoes and cut them into chunks about 1 inch , trim and cut the zucchini to the same size . Steam the potatoes for about ten minutes
and the zucchini . Once cooked, let them cool slightly. Meanwhile, rinse the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half , then peel and slice the red onion .
Prepare the dressing by pouring the oil and mustard into a small jar , add salt and pepper, close the jar and shake it for a few moments to emulsify everything . Now you're ready to assemble the salad. Add the potatoes ,
onions and cherry tomatoes , zucchini and corn. Adjust with salt and drizzle with a bit of oil, tear a few basil leaves and give a gentle stir. Finally, add the mustard and oil emulsion and stir gently again . Your potato and zucchini salad is ready, garnish with some basil and enjoy .
Store your potato and zucchini salad for a couple of days in an airtight container and keep it in the refrigerator. Keep in mind that the texture will become very soft.
Freezing is not recommended.
If mustard is too strong for your taste, make a simple Citronette .
Potato and zucchini salad is a simple and tasty vegan dish.
If you want to enhance the recipe while keeping it vegan, you can add pan-fried tofu, precooked beans or chickpeas, or other seasonal vegetables.
For a vegetarian version, you can use cubed cheese, preferably something fresh and tangy like feta or Quartirolo Lombardo.
For those who eat tuna and hard-boiled eggs, try this additional variant.

