name:
Catalan-style Shrimp
ingredients:
Shrimps: 10.6oz(300 g)- red
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Lemon juice: 0.4cup(100 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Tomatoes: 1.77lbs(800 g)- (mix of datterino, torpedino, fondanello, camone, and costoluto)
Red onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
White wine vinegar: 0.8cup(200 g)
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: ½cup(100 g)
Lemons: 1
Thyme: 1sprig
Salt: to taste
Chives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 8 hours of onion marination

instructions:
Main course of a summer appetizer? Chef Edoardo Dolcimascolo from 13 giugno restaurant in Milan has made for us his recipe for Catalan-style shrimp! This recipe of Spanish origin has several versions, but also some constants: shrimp, onions, and tomatoes make up this cold, colorful, and summer dish. The recipe we offer you enhances the Mediterranean flavors at their best: delicate red shrimp are combined with red onion made more aromatic and soft after a long marination in vinegar. Everything is enriched and enlivened by a rich and varied mix of different types of cherry tomatoes, representing our gastronomic heritage. Let yourself be conquered by these delicious and aromatic Catalan-style shrimp and come find out how to prepare them at home!
Here are other delicious shrimp recipes:
To prepare Catalan-style shrimp, first peel and slice the red onion , place it in a jar, cover with white wine vinegar , close and let marinate for 8 hours .
Wash all the cherry tomatoes and cut them into wedges of the same size and place them in a bowl.
Separately, pour the lemon juice and olive oil , add salt, pepper, and whisk to emulsify .
After the resting hours, take the marinated onions and drain them through a colander , press with the back of the spoon to squeeze them . Add the onions to the tomatoes .
Season with part of the previously prepared emulsion , mix and set the salad aside . Take care of the shrimp: shell them by removing the tail, head, and carapace, also extract the black thread on the back .
Once cleaned , prepare the flavored water: place a pot with water, onion, celery, carrot, and half a lemon on the stove, bring to a boil. Immerse the shrimp and blanch for a few seconds.
Drain the shrimp and dry them on absorbent paper . Everything is ready to serve: on a serving plate, place the tomatoes and shrimp .
Season with the remaining emulsion , chopped chives , and salt . The Catalan-style shrimp are ready to be enjoyed.
Consume the Catalan-style shrimp immediately, if any are left, store them in the refrigerator for one day.
You will find various types of cherry tomatoes here that you can replace with the varieties from your area. Red shrimp are the most prized, but you can also make this dish with shrimp or prawns.
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not fully cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze for at least 96 hours at -0.4°F in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars.

