name:
Roasted Tomato and Mozzarella Soup
ingredients:
Datterino tomatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- ripe
Mozzarella cheese: 10.5oz(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Oregano: to taste
Paprika: to taste
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Homemade bread: 2.8oz(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Since the first time the two protagonists of this roasted tomato and mozzarella soup met, they have made history. Of course, we are not talking about the well-known promise to always pair well together: raw in the Caprese , closely linked by a skewer for the appetizer, or solemnly united for the Sunday lunch in the Gnocchi alla Sorrentina . No, today's story is an open one that offers a choice. You can enjoy it hot, warm, or even cold. In all cases, we assure you that the roasted tomato and mozzarella soup will please everyone! Our advice is definitely to prepare plenty of croutons; with this combination, dipping bread is a must. No one would have guessed, right? But tomatoes and mozzarella really make sparks fly! Now let's get serious and move on to the recipe for roasted tomato and mozzarella soup.
To prepare the roasted tomato and mozzarella soup, start by washing the cherry tomatoes . Dry them and cut them in half lengthwise . Then place them face down on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Sprinkle with about 1.5 oz of oil , season with salt and pepper, then flavor with dried oregano and paprika .
Your tomatoes are ready to cook . Place them on the middle-high rack in the preheated oven at 430°F, in static mode for 40-45 minutes. By the end of the cooking time, they will be roasted and juicy . Gather the parchment paper and transfer the tomatoes to a bowl and let them cool slightly.
Meanwhile, move on to the mozzarella, take 7 oz from the total and cut it into large pieces . Collect everything in a small bowl, including any liquid that oozes out, and then pour it all into the bowl with the tomatoes . Add some basil leaves
and then blend everything with an immersion blender . Add a bit of water as needed until you get a smooth velvety soup of the consistency you prefer .
Set the soup aside and move on to making the croutons. Thinly slice the bread . Add a drizzle of oil along with a pinch of salt, pepper, and oregano . Bake, still in the preheated static oven at 430°F for 7-8 minutes, until the bread is golden .
It's time to assemble the dish. Cut the remaining 3.5 oz of mozzarella into small cubes, which will be used for decoration . Then, pour some soup into the serving bowls and immerse the toasted bread . Garnish with the mozzarella cubes, basil leaves, a pinch of paprika, and a drizzle of oil. The roasted tomato and mozzarella soup is ready .
You can store the roasted tomato and mozzarella soup for up to 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Try replacing the water with cream; your roasted tomato and mozzarella soup will be much richer and creamier! Instead of paprika, curry is a valid and tasty alternative. Instead of basil, you can opt for other aromatic herbs such as mint or chives.

