name:
Naples pizza risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Burrata cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Salted capers: 6tsp(30 g)
Taggiasca olives: 1oz(30 g)
Anchovies in oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Datterino tomatoes: 10.6oz(300 g)
Garlic: 3cloves
Sugar: to taste
Lemon peel: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare the Naples pizza risotto, start with the cherry tomatoes. Wash them, dry them well, and transfer them to a baking tray . Season with salt, pepper, oil , and oregano .
Add the 3 cloves of garlic in their skins and the zest you have taken from the lemon using a potato peeler , then mix well . Bake in a preheated static oven at 480°F for 30 minutes.
In the meantime, soak the capers to desalinate them . Rinse them well, drain them and place them on a cutting board. Add the anchovy fillets and make a minced mix , then transfer to a small bowl and set aside .
In another small bowl, shred the burrata , then keep it in the fridge. Remove the cherry tomatoes from the oven as soon as they are well roasted , then transfer half to a small bowl .
Blend them with an immersion blender until you get a cream. In a saucepan, heat a drizzle of oil, add the rice , and toast it for a few minutes, stirring often . In the meantime, bring a pot of water to a boil, which you will use to cook the rice.
Start cooking the rice by adding one or two ladlefuls of boiling water and stir . Pour in the blended tomatoes .
Add a pinch of salt and continue cooking the rice by adding a ladleful of boiling water as needed . Halfway through cooking, add the other tomatoes, keeping some for the final decoration .
Once cooked, turn off the heat and add the minced capers and anchovies , the pitted olives , and the oregano, then adjust the salt and pepper.
Pour a drizzle of oil and stir to mix. Plate your Naples pizza risotto on a flat plate and spread it well, then garnish with some cherry tomatoes, the hand-shredded burrata , and dry oregano .
You can store the Naples pizza risotto in the refrigerator, well-covered, for up to 2 days, without adding the burrata.
If you prefer, you can add some hot chili powder when the rice is almost cooked.

