name:
Tagliatelle with Lemon and Scampi
ingredients:
Scampi: 4- frozen
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Marjoram: to taste
Lemon juice: 2- from Sorrento
Egg Tagliatelle pasta: 8.75oz(250 g)- fresh
Lemon peel: to taste
Celery: 1
Carrots: 1
Garlic: 2cloves
Brandy: ¼glass

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 2
Cost: High

instructions:
Here is a first course with seafood that will win you over! The lemon and scampi tagliatelle is a refined and truly delicious recipe! The fresh pasta, which you can make with our recipe , will absorb all the flavor of Sorrento lemons and will be really smooth and creamy, thanks to the addition of the freshly prepared bisque, and a bit of butter that never hurts! Finally, a really special touch that makes this tagliatelle perfect for a summer dinner: a simple tartare of scampi, super flavorful and very fresh! Lemon and scampi tagliatelle is suitable for any occasion, let's discover the recipe together to prepare it! If you loved this dish, here are other recipes we recommend trying:
To prepare the lemon and scampi tagliatelle, start by cleaning the scampi. Remove the head , crush the shell from the sides to easily detach it . Remove the intestine as well . Repeat this operation for all the others and do not discard the scampi heads because they will be used to make the bisque.
At this point, take the heads and with scissors, cut off the eyes which would be bitter . Cut the claws and with a sharp blow, using a fairly large knife, split them in half. Clean the celery and cut it into pieces .
Now do the same with the carrot . Prepare the bisque: pour a drizzle of oil into a pan and add 2 cloves of crushed garlic . Also add celery, carrots, and stir .
Let it brown and add scampi heads and claws . Stir well and deglaze with brandy . Let it evaporate and press the heads well with a ladle .
Add ice to cover and cook for about ten minutes. Meanwhile, chop the scampi flesh with a knife . Transfer to a bowl and season with a pinch of salt .
Also add a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil and mix. As soon as the bisque is ready, strain it , collecting it in a bowl .
Now in a pan, pour the butter and add a few marjoram leaves . Turn on the heat and add the lemon juice . As soon as the butter is melted, also add a ladle of bisque .
Cook the tagliatelle in plenty of boiling salted water for 2 minutes . Drain them and transfer them to the pan with the sauce; add a drizzle of oil and finish cooking .
Now plate: roll the tagliatelle with kitchen tongs and transfer them to a plate. Using 2 teaspoons, shape the scampi tartare into quenelles and place 3 on each plate . Add the grated lemon zest and serve !
We recommend serving the tagliatelle immediately!
If you don't have ice, you can make the bisque using cold water.

