name:
Chocolate Ice Cream
ingredients:
Water: 0.6cup(150 g)
Sugar: 1cup(350 g)
Whole milk: 2cups(510 g)
Egg yolks: 4 ¼tbsp(60 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(35 g)
Dark chocolate 75%: 4.2oz(120 g)
Carob seed powder: 1tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note More cooling time in the refrigerator of 2 hours and in the freezer of 3 hours

instructions:
How to make homemade ice cream? We show you the chocolate flavor, the most loved by young and old. Making it is simple, with a few tricks it will be possible to make it creamy and delicious almost like your favorite ice cream parlor, in the classic Italian ice cream way. Together with Sergio Dondoli, a multi-awarded Tuscan ice cream maker, we will reveal all the secrets to prepare an ice cream with the perfect texture. Let's start with the choice of chocolate: to get an intense flavor we recommend choosing a high-quality one that contains 75% cocoa. The addition of unsweetened cocoa and locust bean gum allows the mixture to thicken, and the latter will prevent the formation of annoying ice crystals, so undesirable in homemade ice cream. We guarantee that by following this recipe you will get a velvety structure that will make you fall in love with our chocolate ice cream... all you have to do is prepare a Ice cream cone to serve it or use the classic cups and garnish it with cookies, chocolate flakes, and whipped cream!
Here are other flavors not to be missed:
To prepare the chocolate ice cream, first make the syrup. In a saucepan, pour the water and gradually add the sugar . Heat the mixture until it reaches 185°F; as soon as the first bubbles appear, you can turn off the heat . Pour it into a baking dish and let it cool .
At this point, weigh 9.5 oz of syrup and transfer it to a larger pot . Add the milk and the egg yolks .
Add the powders. First the cocoa and then the locust bean gum . Turn on the heat and stir with a whisk . Heat the mixture and bring it to 140°F.
Now add the chopped chocolate , stir and bring the mixture to a temperature of 185°F . The mixture should be smooth and thick.
Transfer to a bowl and cover with plastic wrap in contact . Let it cool and transfer to the fridge for at least 2 hours. When it is completely cold, remove the plastic wrap and transfer to the ice cream machine .
Turn on the machine and churn the ice cream until it reaches the desired consistency . The time varies depending on the machine used. As soon as the ice cream is ready , transfer it to cups and decorate with chocolate flakes and cookies .
The churned ice cream can be stored in the freezer for up to a month, in an airtight container.
The amount of ice cream to churn should be adjusted according to the size of your machine. If it has a capacity of 17.6 oz, use 12.3 oz of mixture; if it has a capacity of 35.2 oz, you can churn up to 24.7 oz. For the recipe, regular sugar is used; if you find dextrose, you can use it to also lower the sweetness level of the ice cream.

