name:
Steak Tartare
ingredients:
Veal: 1.3lbs(600 g)- lean meat
Egg yolks: 4- very fresh
Fresh scallion: 1.4oz(40 g)
Pickles: 1.4oz(40 g)
Salted capers: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Mustard: 2tbsp(30 g)
Parsley: 2tsp(10 g)
Anchovies in oil: 8fillets
Lemon juice: 1- untreated
Lemon peel: to taste- untreated
White wine vinegar: 2spoonfuls
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Worcestershire sauce: 1tsp
Tabasco®: 1tsp- green
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste- to grind

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Florentine steak or tartare? If you usually choose the latter option, this is the recipe for you: steak tartare! A great classic of raw meat seasoned with egg yolk, mustard, and lemon juice enriched with various ingredients depending on your taste. The recipe shared with us by Chef Cesare Battisti is faithful to the traditional version and includes the addition of anchovies, capers, gherkins, scallion, and parsley for a real triumph of Mediterranean flavors! You can serve the steak tartare either as a main course or as an appetizer by halving the doses: the important thing is to prepare it at the moment to prevent the meat from cooking in its marinade. To make the beef tartare even more inviting, you can enrich it with a julienne of fresh vegetables and accompany it with potato chips and bread croutons! With our instructions and a pinch of imagination, you will bring to the table a top-quality steak tartare.
Also try these tartare variations:
To make steak tartare, first cut the meat into thin slices , then reduce it to cubes , and finally finely chop it strictly with a knife .
Put the minced meat in a bowl, season with salt and pepper , then mix well .
Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and put it in the refrigerator while you prepare the rest of the ingredients. Clean and thinly slice the scallion , then soak it for 5 minutes in a bowl with cold water to which you have added vinegar and salt .
Meanwhile, pour the egg yolks into another bowl and add the mustard , lemon juice , and oil .
Emulsify with a fork . Finally, finely chop the gherkins, anchovies, and desalted capers, the parsley, and the scallion, which you have drained and dried well ; you should get a rather creamy consistency .
Add the chopped ingredients to the egg yolks and mix with a fork , then combine the obtained mixture with the minced meat and mix well to blend it with the seasoning.
Finally, season with Worcestershire sauce , Tabasco , and lemon zest .
Mix and plate the tartare using a ring mold . Garnish with fresh vegetables as desired and serve your steak tartare immediately !
It is recommended to consume the steak tartare immediately.
The ideal cut of meat should be tender and lean, from veal or beef: you can choose between loin, round, top round, rump, or hind leg.
The meat should be strictly cut with a knife (in jargon, “chopped”): it is not recommended to use a meat grinder to avoid fraying it.
The meat must be of the highest quality: to be sure to eliminate bacterial load, you can freeze it for at least 24 hours at -20 degrees Celsius (-4 degrees Fahrenheit).
Tabasco can be replaced with a pinch of chili pepper.
Looking for alternative seasoning ideas? Try it with bagna cauda or an herb pesto, or with tomato and horseradish!
Don't throw away the leftover egg whites: you can store them in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap and use them for other preparations such as omelets, meringues, or cakes.
It seems that the name tartare derives from the Tartar people who, during long horseback rides, placed pieces of meat under the saddle: in this way, the meat was beaten and softened during the ride and was thus ready to be eaten.
For the safe consumption of raw meat, it is recommended to purchase very fresh meat and not consume it if there are changes in color or smell.
As mentioned, the meat must be of the highest quality: to be sure to eliminate bacterial load, you can freeze it for at least 24 hours at -20 degrees Celsius (-4 degrees Fahrenheit).


