name:
Easy Spaghetti Aglio, Olio e Peperoncino
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 4 ½tbsp(60 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Parsley: 1bunch

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Chef Luciano Monosilio prepared for us easy spaghetti aglio, olio e peperoncino (spaghetti with garlic, oil, and chili), making us fall in love with a simple, timeless pasta with intense flavors! An unbeatable main course for impromptu dinners with friends, made with just three basic ingredients: garlic, oil, and chili, to which we add here the aromatic and fresh note of parsley, which also adds a touch of color. A few tips during preparation will get you a perfectly creamy spaghetti. We also recommend knowing the variety of chili you will use, so you can adjust the amount according to your taste and its spiciness, as this cooking method greatly enhances the spicy note! Discover all the secrets of this classic dish of pasta , a staple of our table that doesn't fear culinary trends!
Discover more delicious Spaghetti recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare easy spaghetti aglio, olio e peperoncino, first place a pot full of water on the stove, add salt, and bring to a boil. Add the spaghetti . Peel and chop the garlic, removing the inner core , and chop the chili .
Remove the parsley stems and chop the leaves . Meanwhile, in a very large pan, add 20 g (1.5 tbsp) of oil and the finely chopped garlic .
Add the parsley stems . Sauté, adding a ladleful of cooking water . Then add the chopped fresh chili and let it infuse. Remove the parsley stems.
When the pasta is al dente, drain it directly into the pan . Add a ladleful of cooking water , let it absorb to complete the cooking, and then mix in about 40 g (3 tbsps) of oil . Toss the spaghetti briefly. If needed, adjust with fine salt towards the end of the mixing process.
Season with the chopped parsley , mix , and serve the spaghetti aglio, olio e peperoncino hot .
Spaghetti aglio, olio e peperoncino should be consumed immediately. We do not recommend storing it.
To achieve the right creaminess, add a small amount of cooking water at a time.
This method greatly enhances the spiciness: adjust the chili amount based on the type you use, which can be more or less spicy, and according to your personal taste!


