name:
White Zucchini Parmigiana
ingredients:
Zucchini: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 7oz(200 g)- (to grate)
Provola cheese: 1lb(470 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Butter: 4 ¼tbsp(60 g)
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(60 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fresh scallion: 1.75oz(50 g)
Rosemary: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The white zucchini parmigiana is a rich and stringy dish! It's the "white" version of the much-loved eggplant parmigiana . Can't wait to know how it's made? For this version, no frying as in the grilled eggplant parmigiana ... and no sauce! The grilled zucchini are seasoned with a special and aromatic béchamel enriched with green onion, to make it even more fragrant and appetizing! The provolone will give the essential stringy effect and guarantee this white parmigiana a place of honor among the most sought-after Sunday dishes!
To prepare the white zucchini parmigiana, start by cutting the zucchini into 1/16 to 1/8-inch thick slices using a mandoline . Heat a grill, place the zucchini , and grill them on both sides for a few minutes , being careful not to break them. Then set them aside.
Cut the provolone into slices about 1/8 to 3/16-inch thick . Wash and trim the green onion, then finely slice it . Now take care of the special béchamel: heat the milk in a saucepan .
In another saucepan, melt the butter and add the chopped green onion , which should turn golden. Add the flour gradually , stirring with a whisk to obtain a well-blended roux.
At this point, add the milk and blend the whole mixture, stirring well with the whisk. Continue to stir and cook the mixture over low heat until it thickens, season with salt, nutmeg , and pepper .
At the end of cooking, add the chopped rosemary and set aside. Now take a baking dish of about 8 inches and grease it with extra virgin olive oil over its entire surface . Spread a layer of béchamel
and start arranging the grilled zucchini slices as shown in the picture . Sprinkle with more béchamel
Sprinkle a couple of tbsps of grated Grana and finish with the provolone slices . Continue alternating the layers; you should get about 6/7 layers .
Finish with the last layer of zucchini , a layer of béchamel, and a final generous handful of Grana Padano PDO . Bake in a preheated oven at 350°F for about 30 minutes, until a nice golden crust appears on the surface. Let it rest for 15 minutes before cutting your white zucchini parmigiana .
You can store your white zucchini parmigiana in the refrigerator for a couple of days covered with plastic wrap. It is possible to freeze the parmigiana after cooking.
You can replace the provolone with another stringy cheese like caciocavallo or scamorza. We do not recommend mozzarella because it might release water during cooking. If you want, you can also fry the zucchini instead of grilling them just like in the original eggplant parmigiana recipe.

