name:
Crunchy Panzanella
ingredients:
Stale bread: 4.2oz(120 g)- multi-grain
Red Tropea onions: 2oz(55 g)
White zucchini: 6.5oz(185 g)
Green beans: 3.5oz(100 g)
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(30 g)
Basil: 0.5oz(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Balsamic vinegar: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Coarse salt: 4spoonfuls- (for the onions)
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)-
Sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
The Tuscan panzanella is one of the simplest and most representative recipes of our cuisine, even though its origins are somewhat unclear. A romantic version of the story suggests that this seemingly peasant dish was actually born on fishing boats, where sailors, who spent long periods at sea with only stale bread and little else, got into the habit of seasoning it with onions and soaking it in seawater to make it soft again... However, the version of panzanella we present to you today is a true reinterpretation of the original recipe: we wanted to make it crunchier, richer, more modern, and colorful! It is no longer " panzanella ", but simply "a panzanella". Just like the winter version , the combinations and flavors change, but the real star remains the stale bread, one of the symbols of anti-waste tradition, culinary but also and especially cultural, of our country. Try our version of panzanella: such a humble dish has never been so tasty!
To prepare the crunchy panzanella, start with the confit cherry tomatoes. Wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half lengthwise , then place them on a baking sheet covered with parchment paper, cut side up, and drizzle with extra virgin oil . Sprinkle salt and sugar over the tomatoes .
Cook the tomatoes in a preheated fan oven at 210°F for 1.5 hours, keeping the oven door slightly open (alternatively, you can use a preheated static oven at 250°F for about two hours) . In the meantime, handle the onion: slice it into thick slices, about 1/8 inch , and then cut each slice into 4 wedges. Place the sliced onion in a bowl full of cold water, covering it with 2 tablespoons of coarse salt . Let them soak for about 1 hour, changing the water and salt after half an hour: this treatment will make them more digestible.
Move on to the bread preparation: slice the rolls into thick slices, then cut them into cubes . Distribute the bread cubes on a baking sheet covered with parchment paper and toast them in a preheated static oven at 390°F for about 8 minutes, to make them crispy . Toast the pine nuts for a few minutes in a non-stick pan, turning them as soon as they begin to color .
Wash the zucchini and green beans. Remove the tips from the green beans and cut them into pieces . Dice the zucchini as well . Blanch the vegetables in salted boiling water for 4 minutes after the water returns to a boil.
Drain the vegetables and cool them in ice water to stop the cooking and set the color . Place them in a bowl and add the drained and rinsed onions , and the oil .
Also season with salt and balsamic vinegar , then mix well .
Now add the toasted bread , the pine nuts , and the coarsely hand-torn basil .
Finally, incorporate the confit cherry tomatoes , and mix gently . Let your panzanella rest no more than 10 minutes before enjoying it , so it remains crunchy.
You can store your crunchy panzanella in the refrigerator, covered, for a couple of days, but it will progressively lose its crunchiness. Therefore, we recommend enjoying it immediately!

