name:
Pizza and Mortadella
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 3.8cups(460 g)
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(2 g)
Sugar: 1tsp(5 g)
Water: 1.3cups(300 g)- (at room temperature)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Mortadella: 10.6oz(300 g)- (sliced)
Coarse salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the leavening time and the overnight rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
Rome is certainly famous for its extraordinary beauties, among archaeological sites, palaces, and churches; at every corner, you can smell history... but you are also captivated by the good dishes of the local gastronomy! Fried zucchini flowers and cod fillets are among the most famous dishes of the capital, to be enjoyed while walking with your nose up. But there is also a very appreciated street food that you cannot miss if you walk through the suggestive alleys around Campo de' Fiori. We're talking about pizza and mortadella: a true institution of Roman cuisine among street foods, which today we propose to make with our homemade version! A unique dough, soft on top and crispy at the base, stuffed with generous slices of mortadella ... for a salty afternoon snack or an informal dinner, pizza and mortadella is the perfect recipe to share a special evening with friends! A little dive into the popular and genuine Rome that will make you want to take off for tasty "Roman holidays"!
To prepare pizza and mortadella, start with the pizza dough: in a planetary mixer with a hook (you can also knead by hand, it will take much longer for the dough to become smooth and homogeneous), pour the sifted flour . Then add the dry yeast and granulated sugar .
Start working the powders, then gradually pour in the lukewarm water , and when it has absorbed, also gradually pour in the olive oil . Continue working the dough with the hook until it becomes homogeneous and finally add the salt .
Work the dough for at least fifteen minutes, then stop the mixer : the dough will be very hydrated and soft. At this point, oil the work surface with about 1 tsp of oil and also oil your hands well so that you can work the dough well. Now transfer the pizza dough to the oiled work surface .
Start working it by hand for a few minutes, making folds: pull the edges of the dough and fold them towards the inside . This operation is needed to make these types of very hydrated doughs more elastic and workable. If possible, for each fold, let the dough rest for a few minutes covered with plastic wrap and then continue making folds. Then form a ball with the dough and place it in a large bowl; cover with plastic wrap and let it rise in the oven with the light on for about 3 hours (at a maximum temperature of 82-86°F): the dough should double in volume. The dough should then be transferred to the refrigerator and left to rise overnight, still in the bowl covered with plastic wrap.
The next day, you can take the dough out of the fridge and it will need to be brought to room temperature for at least 1 hour. When you take it out, it should not be cold. Oil the bottom of a 14x11-inch rectangular baking tray with 1.5 tbsps of oil , and pour the dough directly into the tray ; spread it with your hands ,
taking care to extend it until it covers the entire surface . Once finished, let the pizza rise for another 30-60 minutes, then season with about 2 tsps of extra virgin olive oil and coarse salt sprinkled over the entire surface . Bake the pizza in a preheated static oven at 430°F for 20 minutes: the pizza should be soft on top and more crispy at the base (if you have a gas oven, you can place the tray in the lowest part of the oven). To achieve an even closer result to the original Roman pizza, you can heat the tray you will use for baking, without oiling it, until it becomes red-hot, and with a spatula, place the dough, stretched by hand, directly on the paddle.
Once cooked, remove the pizza from the oven and let it cool slightly. Then divide it into six parts and split each piece in half ; fill each portion with generous slices of mortadella and serve the pizza and mortadella for a delicious salty snack !
It is recommended to consume the pizza and mortadella immediately after stuffing. The unstuffed pizza can be stored for 1 day in a paper bag and heated slightly before stuffing.
Freezing the dough is not recommended.
If you have a refractory stone, your pizza will be even crispier at the base! Heat the stone for at least 30 minutes in the oven at 430°F and place the already stretched dough on it with a paddle!
Do you love Lazio cuisine with its delicious dishes? Don't miss our amatriciana, authentic recipe !

