name:
Seadas (sebadas)
ingredients:
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Eggs: 1
Water: 0.6cup(150 g)
Butter: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tsp(5 g)
Lard: 1.8oz(50 g)
Primosale cheese: 10.6oz(300 g)- cow's milk (kept out of the fridge for 24 hours)
Orange peel: 1
Lemon peel: 1
Sugar: 1tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 0.9tsp(5 g)
Strawberry tree honey: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus the resting time of the dough and the cheese acidification time outside the fridge

instructions:
Cheese and honey, a refined and irresistible combination that reveals the secret to the success of an ancient Sardinian recipe: seadas, the famous fried pastries made with a dough that encloses a soft and tasty heart of cheese. A filling that honors the typical flavors of the island, with its tangy taste that perfectly blends with lemon zest, giving that fresh touch that distinguishes this dessert. This recipe traverses all of Sardinia, taking different names from place to place: sevada , sabada , casgiulata , seada , seatta . A variety of names believed to derive from the word seu which in Sardinian means animal fat, still used today in the dough of these tasty bites. Traditionally, seadas are enjoyed hot, garnished with local honey or powdered sugar. Between sweet and salty, seadas encapsulate a unique experience of aromas, scents, and flavors. Discover how to prepare them with chef Roberto Paddeu!
Here are other Sardinian recipes not to be missed:
To prepare the seadas, remember to take the cheese out of the fridge the same day you start making the dough, as the cheese needs to reach the right level of acidity for about 24 hours. First, prepare the pasta violada (or violata): in the bowl of a stand mixer, pour the semolina, all-purpose flour , sugar , and salt .
Also add the egg and the water . Start kneading at low speed until you get a homogeneous and uniform mixture . It will take about 15 minutes.
At this point, add the fats: butter , extra virgin olive oil , and lard .
Knead for another 5 minutes , then transfer to a work surface and knead with your hands . Form a ball .
Wrap it in a towel and let it rest for 24 hours in the refrigerator . The next day, take the cheese you had left out of the fridge for 24 hours and cut it into cubes .
Place it in a saucepan over very low heat and add a splash of water . Let it melt and in the meantime grate the orange zest .
Also, grate the lemon zest . Stir occasionally with a wooden spoon, and when it is almost completely melted, add the lemon and orange zest . Stir again to let the flavors mix well .
When the cheese is very stringy, transfer it to a surface moistened with water . Wet your hands well and gently press the cheese until you get a thickness of about 1/4 inch .
Let the cheese solidify for a few minutes, then use a 8-inch cookie cutter to cut out disks and place them on a baking sheet . The scraps can be remelted as done previously and used to make other disks. You can store the disks in the fridge until ready to use.
Take the dough and cut it into slices with a knife . Place some next to each other, sprinkle with semolina , and roll out the dough with a rolling pin until it is about 1/25 inch thick . You can fold the dough over itself to get a more uniform result.
Place a couple of cheese disks on the dough , depending on the length of the dough. Then fold the dough to fully cover the disks and press lightly around the cheese with your hand to let the air out .
Take a 4-inch cookie cutter and gently press it with the smaller part to give it some shape without cutting it , then flip it and mark the shape using the larger part . Finally, cut the circumference using a cutter wheel .
Seal the edge with the cutter wheel or with the prongs of a fork . If you prefer, decorate the center as well . Continue this way until all are formed .
Heat plenty of vegetable oil to 265-285°F at most and immerse 1 seadas at a time so as not to lower the oil temperature too much. Cook it using a spoon to baste it with the hot oil. When it is well puffed and golden, drain it . Continue this way, draining the seadas on a tray lined with paper towels .
It is time to serve the hot seadas: place the first on a plate , decorate it with honey , and enjoy !
We recommend consuming fried seadas immediately. Raw ready seadas can be stored in the fridge for a few hours or frozen.
If you do not want to use the mix of fats, you can use only lard. Leaving the cheese out of the fridge for 24 hours is very important. The cheese will have a tangy note and will be more stringy. If you prefer, instead of cow cheese, you can also use sheep cheese. Instead of a rolling pin, you can also use a pasta machine. To decorate the seadas, you can use any type of honey or powdered sugar.

