name:
Breaded steak
ingredients:
Beef: 4slices- (thick 1 cm)
Eggs: 3
Type 00 flour: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2spoonfuls
Vegetable oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
New potatoes: 0.8lb(350 g)
Butter: 1spoonful
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the breaded steak, first dab the meat slices well with some paper towels . This will help the breading adhere well and not fall off during cooking. Then beat the eggs with salt and black pepper , add the grated Parmesan and mix again.
Coat the meat slices first in flour , then in eggs , and then in breadcrumbs . At each step, shake off the excess and ensure they are well-covered.
Now do a second breading by passing the meat again in the egg and then in the breadcrumbs . Arrange the breaded steaks on a tray without overlapping them.
Heat the oil in a large pan, immerse the slice inside , and cook for 3-4 minutes until golden, then flip it . Cook for a couple more minutes, then pour the leftover egg around the breaded steak .
As soon as it's ready, drain the breaded steak using a slotted spoon and transfer it onto a tray with paper towels to remove the excess oil . Dab well. Serve it with new potatoes, adding salt to the meat when serving .
To prepare the new potatoes, immerse them in a pot full of water . Blanch until they are tender but still firm and transfer them to a cutting board. Cut them in half .
In a pan, pour oil, butter, garlic, and rosemary . Let it flavor and add the potatoes . Cook until they are well browned, remove garlic, rosemary, and add a sprinkle of grated Parmesan. Cook again until you get a nice crust .
We recommend consuming the breaded steaks immediately. Alternatively, they can be stored in the refrigerator for one day and reheated before serving.
Flavor the breadcrumbs with aromatic herbs like rosemary, thyme, or parsley.
You can use beef slices for the meat.

