name:
Pasta Salad with Peaches
ingredients:
Bow tie pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 9oz(250 g)
Radishes: 1.4oz(40 g)
Peach: 1cup(200 g)
Black olives: 3tbsp(45 g)- sliced
Basil: 2 ½tbsp(12 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Feta cheese: ½cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Balsamic vinegar: 1tsp(5 g)
Mustard: 0.4tsp(2 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
In the summer, lunch breaks become fresh and light, featuring cold dishes. The most popular and timeless options are always these: big salad, fruit salad, or cold pasta... but if you sometimes can't choose, we've got a dish that combines all three! The pasta salad with peaches is a delicious summer main course to enjoy at the beach or office, combining typical salad ingredients like feta, olives, tomatoes, and radishes, with cold farfalle pasta and... super juicy peaches! All seasoned with a sweet and sour vinaigrette. Have we piqued your interest? We're sure that one taste will dispel any doubts! The juicy sweetness of peaches perfectly matches the good taste of durum wheat pasta, and the spicy notes of radishes stand out deliciously alongside the savory feta and olives, as well as the Mediterranean flavor of cherry tomatoes and basil. An explosion of summer colors and flavors that will make you feel like you're on vacation! Discover all our easy and quick variations for a tasty cold pasta!
To prepare the pasta salad with peaches, start by cutting all the ingredients. First, cut the feta into cubes of about a quarter inch , then cut the cherry tomatoes into wedges lengthwise and then chop them into small pieces .
Move on to the radishes: remove the ends and any leaves and then cut them in half, slicing into sticks and finally chopping the sticks into small cubes .
Now focus on the peach: peel it , remove the pit, cut it into small wedges and then into large cubes , chopping further on the cutting board until you have a rough tartare .
Then prepare the vinaigrette: in a small bowl, combine the oil and balsamic vinegar , add a dash of mustard , and mix well by whisking with a teaspoon (if you prefer, you can also emulsify with a hand blender or shake the ingredients in a mason jar with a sealed lid).
In a large bowl, combine the cherry tomatoes, radishes , peaches , and feta .
And the sliced olives , mix well and season everything with the vinaigrette . Finally, adjust the salt and set aside.
In the meantime, bring a pot of plenty of salted water to a boil, and add the farfalle . Cook them al dente so they don't overcook as they cool, drain them thoroughly and let them cool after tossing with a bit of oil to prevent sticking. Once cooled, add them to the bowl with the dressing .
Mix and add the fresh basil, roughly chopped by hand . Sprinkle with pepper to taste , and finally, plate the dish .
Because of the cherry tomatoes and peaches, the pasta salad with peaches can be kept covered in the fridge for up to 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.

