name:
Stuffed Bell Peppers with Rice
ingredients:
Green peppers: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (2 large)
Yellow peppers: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (2 large)
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Vegetable broth: 3cups(700 g)
Mortadella: 8.8oz(250 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Shallot: 1oz(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Whether it's zucchini, peppers, or eggplants, stuffed vegetables always have the power to take us back to the summers of our childhood, with grandma's preparations, as tasty as they were hearty, steaming on the plates at lunchtime. If you too occasionally succumb to the nostalgia of those bygone flavors, you won't be able to resist our stuffed peppers with rice: a recipe that combines the melty creaminess of a rich risotto made with cheese and mortadella with the savory tenderness of the pepper, one of the symbols of summer and Italian cuisine. A succulent dish to prepare for the whole family, for a lunch just the way grandma used to make! Also discover these variations of stuffed peppers:
To prepare the stuffed peppers with rice, start by making a vegetable broth using our recipe. Finely chop the shallot and dice the mortadella . Also, cut the caciocavallo cheese into strips first
And then into cubes . Heat the oil in a large pan, add the chopped shallot and let it simmer over low heat for 5-6 minutes until it becomes almost transparent. Then add the rice .
Toast it for a couple of minutes, stirring constantly to avoid burning the shallot, then add some vegetable broth . When the broth has been absorbed, add more: continue this process until the rice is cooked, stirring often . Towards the end of cooking, season with salt and pepper .
Once cooked, add the diced caciocavallo and mortadella , setting aside about 1.7 oz of each for the final garnish of the peppers. Mix your risotto well
Finally, season it with thyme leaves . Set the risotto aside and move on to cleaning the peppers. Wash them and cut off the top with the stem , then empty the peppers of the seeds to create cups ready to be filled. Place the hollowed-out peppers in a baking dish, with the cavity facing up.
Now go ahead and stuff your peppers with the risotto and sprinkle the top with the cheese and mortadella cubes you set aside . Bake your stuffed peppers in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 30 minutes. Then cover with a sheet of aluminum foil and cook for another 20 minutes (if using a convection oven, cook at 355°F for about 30 minutes, then cover with aluminum foil and continue for another 10 minutes). Remove your stuffed peppers with rice from the oven and enjoy them with the whole family !
Stuffed peppers with rice can be stored in the fridge, covered, for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
This recipe lends itself to countless "clean out the fridge" variations: instead of caciocavallo, you can use any cheese you have on hand, such as fontina or scamorza. No mortadella? Sweet or smoked pancetta or cooked ham will do!

