name:
Cold Chicken Couscous
ingredients:
Couscous: 1 ¼cup(200 g)- precooked
Vegetable broth: 1cup(220 g)- boiling
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Chicken breast: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Zucchini: 1cup(200 g)
Red peppers: 3oz(100 g)
Carrots: 5oz(140 g)
Peas: ½cup(100 g)
Shallot: 1
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Sweet Paprika: to taste
Vegetable broth: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Lemon peel: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the preparation time for the couscous

instructions:
Are you planning a friendly dinner with your friends? What could be better than the magic of couscous: tiny gems of grain that always bring to life cold summer dishes full of flavor with an oriental touch, offering an alternative to the classic pasta dish! Today we present you a rich and colorful version, perfect not only for serving at a casual dinner but also as the ideal lunch to bring to the office or for a picnic! Cold chicken couscous is a variation of the classic North African couscous, prepared with lots of vegetables and paprika-seasoned chicken bites. This dish is also great for an original appetizer: served in cute individual portions, cold chicken couscous will be the perfect way to start your evenings in good company. Have fun varying the ingredients and also try our tuna and zucchini couscous, vegetable couscous , or the Lunch box with couscous and salmon !
Also try our cold barley salad !
To prepare the cold chicken couscous, start by making the vegetable broth (we recommend preparing about 10.5 ounces, considering you'll need it both for the couscous and for cooking the vegetables). Then trim and peel the carrots , cut them into strips and then into small dice ; wash and trim the zucchini as well, then dice them into pieces of the same size as the carrots .
Move on to the bell pepper: remove the stem, then slice it in half and remove the core and seeds; cut it into strips, then dice it into pieces of the same size . Peel and finely slice the shallot ; set the vegetables aside for a moment.
Move on to the chicken: cut the breast into strips and then into dice about 3/4 inch thick ; heat a pan with a drizzle of olive oil and then add the chicken ;
season with salt, pepper, and sweet paprika ; cook, stirring frequently, for about 5-7 minutes, until a nice golden crust forms. Once ready, set the chicken aside and in the same pan with the chicken cooking base, add the shallot
add the carrots and bell peppers as well , and stew for 4 minutes over high heat, adding one or two ladles of vegetable broth to aid the cooking ; then add the zucchini and peas and cook the vegetables for another 4 minutes or so, adding vegetable broth as needed. The vegetables should soften but not fall apart.
Meanwhile, prepare the couscous: in the bowl with the couscous, add a pinch of salt , the oil , and enough boiling vegetable broth to cover it .
Cover with plastic wrap and let the couscous puff up: it will take about 5 minutes. Once the vegetables are cooked and cooled , add them to the bowl, along with the cooled chicken
then add the couscous, which will have puffed up in the meantime ; season with the zest of an untreated lemon to give the dish freshness. Your cold chicken couscous is ready to be served !
You can store the chicken couscous in the fridge for 1-2 days covered with plastic wrap.
Freezing is not recommended.
To make cold chicken couscous appealing any time, use your favorite seasonal vegetables, and add a handful of nuts to the finished dish for crunchiness. You can also use Tabasco for those who prefer spicy flavors, or fresh basil leaves for color and aroma. For an extra kick, you can season the chicken with turmeric and cumin!

