name:
Strawberry Granita
ingredients:
Strawberries: 2 ½cups(400 g)
Water: 2.1cups(500 g)
Sugar: 2cups(120 g)
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fresh liquid cream: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste
Mint: to taste- fresh
Strawberries: to taste- whole

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low
Note + freezing time (at least 4 hours)

instructions:
It is one of the most common and easy-to-find flavors, but we bet you've never tasted one this good: today we're making a delicious strawberry granita, fresh, juicy, and easy to make at home, even without an ice cream maker! You will only need a few ingredients and a few hours to get a result worthy of an ice cream parlor, a fruit-rich granita perfect for quenching your thirst on hot summer days... even if you're not by the sea! If you want to add some touches for presentation, as suggested in this recipe, the strawberry granita also lends itself well to being served as a dessert: with its intense color and explosive taste, strawberry granita is the perfect compromise between fruit and dessert. Strawberry, lemon , Almond granita , coffee , and even Red Wine Granita ! Now you can finally delight yourself with your favorite granita flavor and prepare as you should for the arrival of summer!
To prepare the strawberry granita, first make the sugar syrup: put the water and sugar in a saucepan and bring to a boil , then turn off the heat and let it cool. In the meantime, rinse the strawberries and dry them carefully,
then remove the stems and cut them into 4 parts . Transfer the strawberries to a blender with steel blades and blend until they turn into a puree. To achieve a smoother texture and remove the seeds, place a fine mesh strainer over a bowl and strain the strawberry puree using a spatula : this will yield about 1 cup of strained strawberry puree.
Now squeeze the lemon , add the juice to the strawberry puree , and mix well, then add the now-cooled sugar syrup
and mix well to combine everything . Pour the mixture into a low, wide glass container (suitable for freezing) and place it in the freezer for an hour. After an hour, remove the container from the freezer and scrape the mixture with a fork to break up the ice crystals that have formed .
Put the mixture back in the freezer and repeat the same operation every half hour for a total of at least 4 hours, scraping the strawberry mixture with a fork each time until you achieve the typical granita consistency . At this point, you can proceed with the decoration: pour the fresh cream into a cold container
and start whipping it with an electric whisk; when it is nice and frothy, add the powdered sugar and continue whipping until it is firm and stiff, then transfer it to a piping bag (for more information, you can consult our cooking school on how to whip cream ). Take whole strawberries and make small cuts lengthwise about 1/8 inch apart, being careful not to cut through the stem which will keep the slices together . Now you can assemble your granita: take some glass cups and fill them with the frozen strawberry mixture ,
then garnish with a dollop of whipped cream , fan out the strawberry and place it on the edge of the glass , and finally decorate with a mint leaf . Your fresh strawberry granita is ready to be enjoyed!
You can store the strawberry granita in the freezer in an airtight container for up to 1 month.
Not only whipped cream to make this strawberry granita even more irresistible... for an authentic Sicilian version, accompany it with a fragrant brioche , or drizzle it with some sparkling wine to crown a sweet "romantic" evening!

