name:
Spaghetti with Anchovies and Breadcrumbs
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Anchovies in oil: 2tbsp(30 g)-
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(70 g)
Garlic: 3cloves-

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Pasta and potatoes , Friggione , garlic, oil, and chili pepper , are just some of the most well-known and appreciated humble dishes. But know that today we will extend the list by adding a new one that has truly delighted us: spaghetti with anchovies and breadcrumbs! A lightning-fast first course prepared with just two ingredients, besides the pasta, perfect for a last-minute dinner with friends who have dropped by unexpectedly or for those famous midnight spaghetti feasts among food lovers! Set the timer to 10 minutes: let's begin!
Discover also:
To prepare the spaghetti with anchovies and breadcrumbs, set a pot of water on the stove and bring it to a boil (you don't need to salt it): it will be used to cook the pasta later. Meanwhile, pour 2 tsp of extra virgin olive oil into a pan, then add the peeled whole garlic cloves and the drained anchovy fillets . Take a ladleful of hot water and pour it into the pan to help dissolve the anchovies better . This will take about 10 minutes, so stir often.
In the meantime, in a separate pan, pour 2 tsp of extra virgin olive oil , then add the breadcrumbs to toast them and mix everything until the crumbs are golden brown; set the breadcrumb mixture aside .
At this point, cook the pasta in the now boiling water; you can add a pinch of coarse salt if you prefer, as the anchovies are very flavorful. Cook the spaghetti for only 5 minutes . After this time, remove the garlic cloves from the sauce pan and drain the pasta, transferring it directly into the pan .
Stir the spaghetti, adding cooking water as needed, and stir occasionally to cook evenly . When the pasta is ready, turn off the heat and add part of the breadcrumb mixture, then mix . If necessary, add a little more cooking water, then plate your spaghetti with anchovies and breadcrumbs and garnish with a final sprinkle of the breadcrumb mixture .
It is recommended to consume the spaghetti with anchovies and breadcrumbs immediately.
Freezing is not recommended.
Customize your spaghetti with anchovies by adding ingredients of your choice. Our favorites? Chili pepper and black olives!

