name:
Fried Pizza
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 4cups(500 g)
Water: 1.3cups(320 g)
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)- from Buffalo milk
Provola cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 0.9lb(200 g)
Salami: 2.1oz(60 g)- Napoli type
Basil: 8leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Vegetable oil: 4 ¼cups(1.3 l)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 6 hours of dough rising

instructions:
Among the delicacies of Neapolitan street food, along with sfogliatelle , fried pizza reigns supreme: a larger and richer version of the typical fried pizzelle ! Who doesn't remember Sophia Loren in the famous cult film L'oro di Napoli frying pizzas in the alley? Simple or stuffed, in Naples, fried pizza is still served the same way, just drained from the oil and wrapped in straw paper, enjoyed while strolling through the city center. Although you won't find vendors willing to offer credit as in De Sica's humorous film, you can still taste the authentic fried pizza only in Naples. We offer you our version to enjoy this irresistible treat at home. Just prepare the classic pizza dough and fill it with a rich and flavorful filling that will win you over at the first bite. But don't forget the fundamental rule of this recipe: enjoy the fried pizza immediately, while it's still "hot"!
Also try the fun pizza croissant variant or the Fried Pizza Strips !
To make the fried pizza, pour the sifted flour and dry yeast into a stand mixer equipped with a hook (alternatively, you can use 0.25 oz of fresh yeast). Add 1/4 of the water from the total amount and start the mixer. Continue adding the water little by little while the mixer runs, ensuring that the liquid is well absorbed before adding more. Once you have poured 3/4 of the total water, add the salt , continuing to knead.
Add the remaining water gradually, and let it work until the dough is well-incorporated with the hook, forming a smooth and homogeneous mixture . Remove the dough from the mixer using a spatula and place it on a lightly floured surface .
Gently stretch it with your hands , then fold the edges towards the center (8-9).
Then fold the dough over itself to form a spherical shape . Transfer the dough into a large bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise in the oven with the light on, at a temperature of 77-82°F, until it has tripled in volume. This will take about 3 hours.
After this time, retrieve the dough, which will have tripled, and transfer it to a lightly floured surface . Shape it into a loaf , then divide it into 4 equal parts, about 7.8 oz each , using a dough scraper.
Shape each piece into balls . Transfer the dough balls to a tray, keeping them well apart , cover with loosely stretched plastic wrap (so the dough can expand), and let them rise for another 3 hours in the oven with the light on. Meanwhile, prepare the filling: cut the salami and provola cheese into small cubes . Also, prepare the basil leaves and the ricotta: work it for a few moments with a spoon in a bowl to make it creamier.
After the 3 hours of rising, take the dough balls and stretch them by hand on a lightly floured surface, creating an irregular circular disk about 12 inches in diameter . Now you can prepare the filling. Use 1/4 of the ingredients for each pizza, filling only half and leaving a couple of inches from the edge. Spread a layer of ricotta, then lightly crush the peeled tomatoes with a fork and pour them over the ricotta , seasoning with salt to taste,
then add some salami cubes and provola . Add fragrance with the hand-torn basil leaves and pepper .
Fold the unfilled half of the disk over to create a half-moon shape . Seal the edges well to prevent the filling from leaking during cooking. Once all 4 pizzas are made, you can start cooking: heat the oil in a high-sided pan, ideally reaching 340°F. Use a food thermometer to monitor the temperature. Immerse one pizza at a time ; as it cooks, carefully spoon the hot oil over it to cover it well. Make sure to turn it gently to cook evenly and continue frying until the pizza is golden brown.
Drain the pizza with a slotted spoon , place it on a frying rack or absorbent paper to dry the excess oil. The fried pizza is ready to enjoy hot !
Fried pizza is a dish to be consumed immediately. It is not recommended to store it in the refrigerator or to freeze it after cooking. You can store the pizza dough in the refrigerator for one day covered with plastic wrap or freeze it.
For the fried pizza filling, you can replace the buffalo ricotta with cow's milk ricotta, making sure to soften it with a little cream and lightly salt it.
This rich filling is quite similar to the one used to make Pullastiello-style Zucchini , have you heard of them?

