name:
Eggplant Cutlets
ingredients:
Eggplant: 1.1lbs(500 g)- round black
Coarse salt: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Eggs: 1
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(50 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Chickpea flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Water: (75 g)
Breadcrumbs: 3tbsp(25 g)
Fioretto corn flour: 2tbsp(25 g)
Black pepper: 1pinch
Breadcrumbs: 1.8tbsp(25 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1oz(25 g)- to grate
Smoked paprika: 1pinch- sweet
Vegetable oil: 3 ½cups(800 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour to drain the eggplants

instructions:
Are you expecting friends for dinner and looking for an appetizer or a starter that will please everyone? Eggplant cutlets are the perfect answer to this dilemma: a tasty finger food made even more special by three different breadings, each more delicious than the last. A vegetarian version of the classic cutlets , made with one of the most beloved vegetables: eggplants, which are the stars of many dishes such as gratinated eggplant , fried eggplant , eggplant funghetto , or parmigiana . It's really true that simplicity is the best: just slices of eggplant dipped in batter and then fried, each bite offering a more intense flavor until you reach the firm flesh of these delicious vegetables. These eggplant cutlets are irresistible and will win everyone over, even the little ones. An easy and quick recipe, perfect for preparing when you have few ideas for dinner! If you are looking for other Vegetarian cutlets , try also:
To prepare the eggplant cutlets, start by preparing the eggplants: wash them, trim both ends, and cut them into slices about 2/3 inch thick, until you get 12 slices. . Place all the slices on a rack and sprinkle each slice with coarse salt . Let them drain, at room temperature, for about an hour . For this step, it is advisable not to let the eggplants rest for more than 1 hour and a half, otherwise, they will absorb too much salt.
After this time, rinse each slice well under running water to remove excess salt and dry them well with a clean cloth or kitchen paper. Then heat the seed oil in a saucepan, with a kitchen thermometer, and start preparing the vegan batter: pour the chickpea flour into a bowl, add water gradually while stirring with a whisk to avoid lumps . Lightly salt and pepper and stir again .
Now in another bowl, pour the breadcrumbs and fine cornmeal , and mix well to combine the two ingredients . Take an eggplant slice and dip it into the chickpea flour and water batter
then into the breadcrumb and cornmeal mixture , first on one side and then on the other . Do the same for 4 eggplant slices, carefully placing each one on a plate lined with parchment paper after breading .
Now move on to the second breading, the classic one: in a bowl, beat an egg and lightly salt it, then proceed to bread one eggplant slice at a time by first dipping it in the beaten egg and then in the breadcrumbs .
Repeat the operation to make a double breading: after dipping the slice in the breadcrumbs, dip it again in the egg , and then again in the breadcrumbs . Do the same until you have 4 slices of eggplant, which you will place on the plate with parchment paper .
It's time for the third breading: in a bowl, pour the Pecorino cheese and add the breadcrumbs . Add the smoked sweet paprika
and a pinch of pepper (you can avoid the salt because Pecorino is already salty), then mix everything well . In a bowl, beat an egg and proceed to bread the eggplant slices, first dipping them in the egg
then into the mixture of breadcrumbs and Pecorino cheese , first on one side and then on the other . Again, make a double breading: dip the eggplant in the egg
and then again in the breadcrumbs and cheese mixture . Continue until you have 4 eggplant slices with this last breading, always placing them on the plate after breading . At this point, check the oil: when it reaches a temperature of 340°F you can start frying your eggplant cutlets . Start with the cutlets with the vegan breading, so they do not come into contact with animal-derived products during frying.
Immerse the eggplants in the oil, four at a time, frying them for 2-3 minutes and turning them well on both sides with the help of tongs . Once they are perfectly golden, place them on a plate with kitchen paper to absorb the excess oil . Continue frying all the other eggplant slices, the ones with the classic breading and those with Pecorino: they all have the same cooking time. Arrange them on a plate, keeping them separated by breading type and serve. Your eggplant cutlets are ready to be enjoyed!
Eggplant cutlets are best enjoyed freshly made. Any form of storage is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can make eggplant cutlets with just one type of breading: just triple the amounts indicated!

