name:
Swordfish in Tomato Sauce
ingredients:
Swordfish: 14.1oz(400 g)- (2 slices)
Lemons: 1
Marjoram: 3sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Datterino tomatoes: 9oz(250 g)
Worcestershire sauce: 1.4tbsp(20 ml)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
Mediterranean cuisine is loved around the world for its simple and genuine flavors. Today we will show you once again how easy it is to create a delicious fish dish using just a few quality ingredients: swordfish with tomato sauce! The lean meat of swordfish, which is particularly tasty but not always easy to enhance, is flavored with a light and fragrant marinade. Discover how your swordfish bites will remain tender and beautifully pink inside. They will be waiting on your serving plates with a fresh tomato sauce, ready in just a few minutes: its aromas will enhance the delicate taste of this seafood main course. Swordfish in tomato sauce is a delicious dish worthy of being part of even the most refined fish menus… when it is said that just a few good ingredients are enough to make a dish special!
To prepare the swordfish in tomato sauce, first take care of the marinade, which will last just as long as the preparation. Place the swordfish fillet in a fairly large baking dish, add the oil , marjoram leaves , and the grated zest of one lemon (save some for the final garnish)
and the juice of half a lemon . Turn the fish over on both sides to ensure it is evenly flavored, then cover the baking dish with plastic wrap and set it aside temporarily (a cool place outside the fridge will be fine for the few minutes needed). Wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half ;
Heat the oil in a pan, add the garlic clove and let it brown briefly. Add the cherry tomatoes , salt, pepper, and stir. Then deglaze with Worcestershire sauce .
Cook the cherry tomatoes for 10 minutes over medium heat, stirring occasionally. Once cooked, turn off the heat, remove the garlic , and transfer the tomatoes to a tall, narrow container, then blend them with an immersion blender until you get a smooth and homogeneous sauce .
Heat another pan well (or use the same one to take advantage of the cherry tomato cooking base), take the swordfish from the marinade and place it in the pan, salt it, and sear the fish over medium-high heat for 2 minutes on one side and for 1 minute on the other . Once cooked, transfer the swordfish to a plate and cut it into cubes .
At this point, you can assemble the serving plates: sprinkle the bottom with some tomato sauce , add the swordfish bites, and finally garnish with a few marjoram leaves , the lemon zest you saved earlier, and a grind of pepper: your swordfish in tomato sauce is ready to be served !
It is advisable to consume the swordfish in tomato sauce immediately, but if necessary, you can store it in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
To add a crunchy note, you could garnish the dish with a bread crumble or toasted almond flakes.
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at -0.4 degrees Fahrenheit in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars.

