name:
Red Rice and Grains with Buffalo Mozzarella and Roasted Cherry Tomatoes
ingredients:
Mix of grains: 14.1oz(400 g)- brown rice, farro, barley, wheat, oats, and red rice
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Oregano: to taste- fresh
Walnut kernels: ¼cup(50 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)- on the vine
Oregano: to taste- dry
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)- (with 1.8 ounces of brine)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Colorful, fragrant, and healthy dishes that are a joy for both the eyes and the palate: this is how we want to enrich our summer menus. With the recipe for red rice and grains with buffalo mozzarella and roasted cherry tomatoes, we were inspired by the simplest yet most beloved Mediterranean flavors, reinterpreted in a rich and tasty single dish that's decidedly inviting! A bunch of juicy cherry tomatoes, a wholesome and substantial mix of grains, all enveloped in a velvety buffalo cream. An explosion of aromas to discover with every bite, a light yet tantalizing dish, perfect to enjoy after a sunny day!
To make the red rice and grains with buffalo mozzarella and roasted cherry tomatoes, first take care of the tomatoes: wash them gently while keeping the bunch intact, dry them, then place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and season with olive oil , dried oregano , salt, and pepper . Roast the tomatoes in a preheated convection oven at 390°F for 15 minutes. The cooking times may vary slightly depending on the ripeness and size of the tomatoes.
In the meantime, take care of the grain and rice mix: bring a pot full of salted water to a boil, add the grains , and cook for the time indicated on the package. Meanwhile, drain 7 oz of mozzarella, being careful to save 1.75 oz of the brine, and cut it into cubes. Heat the liquid in a saucepan
and pour the mozzarella cubes into the bowl of a mixer . Blend the mozzarella, adding the warm brine in two stages , and once the mixture is smooth, add the olive oil .
Stop the mixer and set aside the buffalo cream . Meanwhile, the grains will have finished cooking , drain them and let them cool in a bowl .
The roasted cherry tomatoes will also be cooked at this point, take them out of the oven and let them cool as well. Chop the walnuts and fresh oregano with a knife . Everything is ready to compose the dish: place the tomatoes, the burrata cream, and the grains
Season the rice with a few tablespoons of burrata cream , the cooking juice from the tomatoes , salt, pepper, and finally garnish with the chopped walnut kernels and oregano. The red rice and grains with buffalo mozzarella and roasted cherry tomatoes can be served !
The red rice and grains with buffalo mozzarella and roasted cherry tomatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended
If you love sweet and sour flavors, you can replace the roasted cherry tomatoes with equally tantalizing confit cherry tomatoes!

