name:
Melon Ice Cream
ingredients:
Melon: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Whole milk: ¾cup(180 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 2

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low
Note + cooling for about 30 minutes (optional additional 2 hours in the freezer)

instructions:
Cream or fruit? The choice is always tough when standing in front of a gelato counter. But if you're looking for a fresh and refreshing flavor, we have the ideal solution: melon ice cream! The juicy flesh of this typical summer fruit turns into a creamy pastel-colored delight to enjoy in both cone and cup versions, perhaps paired with a scoop of homemade yogurt ice cream ! Perfect at any time of the day, especially during the hottest hours, melon ice cream will win you over with its simple and delicate flavor, the perfect snack for the whole family.
If you love this summer fruit, don't miss the chance to prepare and taste mini melon cheesecakes or a glass of icy meloncello !
To prepare melon ice cream, first clean the melon: cut it in half and remove the seeds with a spoon . Then cut it into slices and remove the rind with a knife . Cut the flesh into chunks : you should get 12 oz of cleaned melon.
Place the melon flesh into a tall, narrow container and blend with an immersion blender . Break the eggs into a bowl, add the sugar , and mix everything with a hand whisk .
Now pour the milk and cream into a saucepan and heat the mixture without boiling it. Off the heat, add the egg and sugar mixture and mix well with a whisk . Cook over low heat until it reaches a temperature of 185°F, using a thermometer to measure the exact temperature.
Transfer the mixture to a bowl , add the blended melon , and stir again to combine everything . Place the mixture in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for about 30 minutes until it is well chilled.
At this point, pour the obtained mixture into the ice cream maker ; (if your ice cream maker is not self-refrigerating, remember to keep the bowl in the freezer for at least 12 hours before using it). Close the ice cream maker with the lid and operate it for about 30 minutes. When it has reached the desired consistency, your delicious melon ice cream is ready ! If you prefer a soft and creamy ice cream, you can serve it immediately; otherwise, let it set in the freezer for at least 2 hours for a firmer consistency.
Melon ice cream can be stored in the freezer for up to a week.
Not just a dessert... garnish the melon ice cream with a slice of prosciutto that has been baked until crispy and serve it in elegant finger food glasses!

