name:
Rice medallions with bagna cauda
ingredients:
Rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2oz(60 g)- to grate
Vegetable broth: to taste
Parsley: to taste- hedgehog
Extra virgin olive oil: 11tbsp(150 g)
Salted anchovies: 2.6oz(75 g)
Garlic: 3cloves

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Note + the soaking time for the anchovies (at least 30 min.), the preparation of the vegetable broth, and the cooling of the risotto in the fridge

instructions:
To prepare the rice medallions with bagna cauda, first prepare the bagna cauda: desalt the anchovies by soaking them in cold water for at least 30 minutes . Meanwhile, cut the garlic cloves into thin slices . Pour the oil into a small saucepan, add the garlic, and turn on the very low heat .
After the soaking time, open the anchovies in half and remove the bone and tail . Add the anchovies to the saucepan and cook for about an hour over very low heat; the oil should not fry . In the meantime, prepare the vegetable broth that you will use to cook the rice.
Once ready, blend the bagna cauda with an immersion blender and set aside . Pour the rice into a hot saucepan, without adding fat .
Briefly toast the rice, stirring with a wooden spoon , then pour in a ladle of broth at a time, always waiting for the liquid to be absorbed before pouring the next one . Occasionally, add a tablespoon of bagna cauda, adjusting the amount to your taste .
At the end of cooking, adjust the salt, then turn off the heat and stir in the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP . Mix well, then also add the chopped curly parsley . Transfer the risotto into a baking dish, level the surface , and cover with plastic wrap. Place in the refrigerator until completely cooled.
When the rice is cold, take small portions and compact them between your palms to obtain the shape of a medallion; with these quantities, you will get about 8 . Place the rice medallions in a well-heated non-stick pan and let them brown over medium-high heat without touching them. Once golden on one side, gently turn them with a spatula .
Brown the medallions on the other side and turn them several times to obtain a crunchy and well-golden crust , then transfer them to a tray . Garnish with curly parsley and serve your rice medallions with bagna cauda !
The rice medallions with bagna cauda can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
It is not necessary to stir-fry the risotto with butter or oil because it is already present in the bagna cauda.
For an even more intense flavor, you can serve the rice medallions with a few drops of Parmigiano Reggiano DOP fondue!

