name:
Octopus Wrap
ingredients:
Octopus: 1.8lbs(800 g)- already boiled
Tortillas: 4
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Lemon juice: ½
Green Peperoncino: 1tsp
Wild fennel: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Figs: 2.8oz(80 g)
Roquefort: 2.8oz(80 g)
Celery: 2.1oz(60 g)
Arugula: 1cup(30 g)
Walnut kernels: 0.3cup(40 g)
Balsamic vinegar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
If you think a sandwich is just a quick snack to fill your stomach during lunch break, you're wrong! Sandwiches, burgers, and Stuffed Bagel , just to name a few, have become small works of art tailored to delight the palate with particular and innovative combinations. The octopus wrap is a summer dish that combines the firm texture of octopus with a mix of ingredients full of flavor nuances: the sweetness of figs, the saltiness of Roquefort cheese, the crunchiness of celery, and the aroma of fennel and lemon all blend into a unique and well-balanced taste that will envelop you from the first to the last bite. But if you don't let hunger get the better of you, we recommend savoring each bite slowly to perceive the alternation of all the distinct elements that make up the octopus wrap... not just a simple sandwich, but an experience that will awaken your taste buds always in search of new stimuli!
To prepare the octopus wrap, first take a pre-cooked octopus (for cooking instructions, you can refer to our recipe for warm octopus and potato salad ), divide the tentacles , and cut both the tentacles and the head into medium-sized chunks (2-3).
Transfer the cut octopus into a bowl and season with oil , salt, the zest of one lemon , and the juice of half ;
then add a few sprigs of wild fennel and a pinch of chili pepper . Mix well, cover the bowl with plastic wrap, and set aside for now. Meanwhile, prepare the other ingredients: cut each fig into 8 wedges without peeling them ,
then cut the Roquefort cheese into small cubes . Finally, take the celery stalk, remove the outer strings with a vegetable peeler , and slice it thinly with a mandoline .
At this point, heat a grill well, add the octopus pieces , and grill them for 4-5 minutes, turning them to form the characteristic grill marks on both sides . Transfer the grilled octopus to a plate and slightly warm the tortillas in a non-stick pan .
Now you are ready to assemble all the ingredients: fill each tortilla with a bed of arugula, add some celery , and evenly distribute the octopus pieces and fig wedges. Finally, add a few cubes of Roquefort cheese , some coarsely chopped walnuts, and if desired, a few drops of balsamic vinegar: wrap everything up and your octopus wraps are ready to enjoy!
It is recommended to consume the octopus wrap immediately. Cooked octopus can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to one day.
The octopus wrap plays on a filling made of strong but well-balanced flavors. However, if you don't like some ingredients, you can customize the filling by creating your own mix, for example by replacing the Roquefort with mild Gorgonzola, or adding grilled eggplant, fresh cherry tomatoes, or grated carrots!

