name:
Pasta with Fresh Tuna
ingredients:
Spaghetti Rigati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Tuna: 4.2oz(120 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 7.1oz(200 g)- of various colors
Taggiasca olives: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)- pitted
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Lemon peel: 1
Brown sugar: 1tsp
Basil: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Are you looking for a fresh dish for this summer? Something that isn't too classic like fresh tomato pasta but not too quick like tuna spaghetti either. Well, we thought of mixing these two main ingredients together to create a delicious pasta with fresh tuna! The mix of colorful tomatoes, the same ones we used for the tomato tart , will make the dish rich and joyful, featuring fresh tuna. Yes, because this time no canned tuna, we opted for a tasty fresh tuna fillet that will make the dish truly special thanks to a quick marinade. A good plate of pasta with fresh tuna is just what you need to welcome friends for dinner and surprise them with a quick and flavorful recipe like this one.
Also try the farfalle with fresh salmon , irresistibly creamy, or these other variations featuring fresh tuna:
To prepare pasta with fresh tuna, start by marinating the tuna. Cut it into strips and then into cubes about 3/4 inch (2 cm) . Then season with salt, pepper, and oil ,
grate the zest of half a lemon and mix well. Set aside to marinate . In the meantime, wash, dry, and halve the cherry tomatoes .
Remove the top from the chili pepper, slice it, discarding most of the seeds, and finely chop it . Peel the garlic and move to the stove. Heat a pan with oil, add the garlic and chili pepper, and sauté for 5 minutes over low heat . It's time to add the tomatoes and then the brown sugar .
While the tomatoes are cooking, boil the pasta in salted water . When it's almost done, remove the garlic and drain the pasta directly into the sauce; add a bit of cooking water if needed .
Add the olives , coarsely chopped parsley and basil and mix. Begin plating by serving the pasta with the tuna ,
add a bit more parsley and basil , grate some more lemon zest , and your pasta with fresh tuna is ready: enjoy your meal !
Once the fresh tuna pasta is ready, it is recommended to consume it immediately. You can prepare the sauce in advance, but the tuna should be prepared just before cooking the pasta.
Want to enrich the fresh tuna pasta? Just add some caramelized spring onions or shallots for a delightful sweetness. Or you can add some dill or wild fennel, even incorporating it into the sauce like in pasta with sardines. Finally, a few dollops of buffalo ricotta, squeezed directly onto the plates using a piping bag, will be a true gourmet touch!
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at -0.4°F (-18°C) in a home freezer marked with 3 or more stars.

