name:
Coffee Ice Cream
ingredients:
Coffee: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(125 g)
Whole milk: 0.3cup(75 g)
Glucose: 2.1oz(60 g)
Sugar: 3 ½tbsp(45 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus cooling times (about 2 and a half hours)

instructions:
Discover how simple it is to make coffee ice cream with our recipe! Homemade ice cream will be tasty and creamy just like in a café! Coffee ice cream is certainly one of the most beloved flavors, especially among adults, and it pairs perfectly with many other flavors such as cream , pistachio , hazelnut , or chocolate . Thanks to the addition of glucose, the ice cream will be velvety, and you won't get those annoying ice crystals that often form. Depending on the coffee you use, you'll get a different aroma, and you can personalize the flavor of the ice cream by using a strong coffee for a more intense taste or a lighter coffee for a milder taste. And if you want to add a truly indulgent touch, mix in some chopped dark chocolate during the churning process, just like you do for stracciatella ice cream !
To prepare coffee ice cream, first make the coffee. At this point, pour the milk into a saucepan, add the sugar , the glucose syrup , and the freshly made coffee .
Heat over low heat until the sugar is completely dissolved . Then transfer the mixture to a pitcher and add the fresh cream . Mix well and transfer to the freezer for 30 minutes.
When the mixture is well chilled, transfer it to the ice cream maker and turn it on . Wait about 30-40 minutes until the ice cream is creamy .
Transfer the ice cream to a baking dish , cover with plastic wrap, and place in the freezer for about 2 hours; this way, it will be more compact but still creamy. However, if you prefer, you can skip this step and consume it immediately. After two hours, take the ice cream out of the freezer and use an ice cream scoop to transfer it to cups . Decorate with chocolate shavings and serve immediately .
Coffee ice cream can be stored in the freezer for up to a week.
If you prefer, you can also use decaffeinated coffee to make the ice cream. Instead of glucose syrup, you can use the same amount of honey. Keep in mind that the result will not be exactly the same, and the taste will also be different.
We used a self-refrigerating ice cream maker; if yours is not, freeze the machine body according to the instructions on the package.

