name:
Pasta with Arugula Pesto, Eggplants in Oil, and Stracciatella
ingredients:
Pipe Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Stracciatella cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Eggplant: 4.2oz(120 g)- drained
Arugula: 3 ½cups(100 g)
Pine nuts: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.67cup(150 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
In the summer, the desire to stay in the kitchen decreases, but the desire to enjoy a good plate of pasta does not wane! So here is the answer to your problems: pasta with arugula pesto, eggplants in oil, and stracciatella, a fresh and tantalizing first course that will make you lick your lips. The pesto we propose today is prepared in a few minutes and will give your pasta a truly unique creaminess. Eggplants in oil and dollops of stracciatella will complete the dish with a unique taste. Making this pasta is really simple, you can prepare it in advance and enjoy it even cold, perhaps after a nice day at the beach!
Here are other recipes you shouldn't miss with arugula pesto :
To prepare the pasta with arugula pesto, eggplants in oil, and stracciatella, start by making the pesto. Wash the arugula well, dry it, and place it in the bowl of a mixer. Add the pine nuts , the Grana, the Pecorino , and a pinch of salt. Now pour the extra virgin olive oil and start blending.
You should obtain a creamy consistency . Put a pot full of salted water on the stove for cooking the pasta. Place the eggplants on a cutting board and first cut them into strips and then into cubes of about 3/4 inch .
As soon as the water starts boiling, throw in the pasta and cook it for the indicated time. Drain it and transfer it to a bowl , add the pesto , and mix well.
Add the eggplants and give it one last stir. Plate and add the stracciatella on the dish . Serve warm or cold .
Pasta with arugula pesto keeps in the fridge for 2 days.
If you don't like the taste of Pecorino, you can replace it with the same amount of Grana.
Instead of stracciatella, you can use hand-torn burrata.

