name:
Sardine Meatballs
ingredients:
Sardines: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to clean)
Bread: 1.8oz(50 g)- crumb
Ragusano cheese (PDO): 0.9oz(25 g)
Parsley: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Eggs: 2
Garlic: 1clove
Water: 4 ¼glasses(1 l)
Fine salt: 2tsp(30 g)
Cornstarch: 0.8cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
White wine vinegar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Onions: ½
Parsley: to taste- (the stems)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 11 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 20 min. of soaking sardines and 30 min. of resting of the dough

instructions:
Sardines are a typical ingredient of Sicilian cuisine, featured in delicious traditional recipes such as pasta with sardines or stuffed sardines . The list wouldn't be complete without sardine meatballs, presented here in the version by Pino Cuttaia, a renowned Michelin 2-star chef from Licata! A simple and genuine main course , flavored with garlic, parsley, and Ragusano DOP, a characteristic cheese of the territory. We have dressed the fish meatballs with a mix of oil, vinegar, and onion, perfect for balancing the sweet and sour note, but if you prefer, you can cook them directly in tomato sauce without frying for a softer and lighter variant... how do you like them? Just make the sardine meatballs and try them both ways!
To make sardine meatballs, start by cleaning the fish: rinse the sardines under running water to remove scales, then remove the fin and head . Make a cut along the belly to open them up like a book , gut them, and remove the backbone .
In a bowl, combine the water and salt , then stir to dissolve the salt. Soak the sardines for about 20 minutes: the salt solution will help clean them better of blood and will give the preparation a salty taste . After soaking, transfer the sardines to absorbent paper to dry .
Meanwhile, cut the bread into cubes , then transfer to a mixer. Add the parsley and blend coarsely .
Chop the sardines with a knife and place them in a large bowl, then add the bread crumbs and parsley and the grated Ragusano DOP .
Add the minced garlic , eggs , and pepper, then mix to combine everything . Let the mixture rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
At this point, oil your hands, take a tablespoon of the mixture at a time, and form slightly flattened meatballs , then coat them with cornstarch . Heat a generous layer of oil in a pan and immerse the meatballs .
Fry the meatballs on both sides until golden brown , then transfer them to absorbent paper .
To prepare the dressing, mix in a bowl oil, chopped parsley stems , vinegar , and sliced onion .
Mix everything well . Plate the sardine meatballs and drizzle with the dressing as desired !
Sardine meatballs can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day.
If you cannot find Ragusano DOP, you can substitute it with provolone or aged Pecorino from the region.
There are many variations of sardine meatballs; for example, you can flavor the mixture with mint instead of parsley.
For coating, it is preferable to choose cornstarch or rice starch as they tend to burn less in hot oil.
By replacing the bread with gluten-free bread, you can also make a recipe suitable for celiacs!
We recommend buying fresh sardines and using them the next day: this way, they will be easier to clean, and the meat will be more relaxed. The best period is May-June when sardines are fattier.

