name:
Cherry Cheesecake
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 6.3oz(180 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 3cups(750 g)
Cream cheese: 1.1cups(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.4cup(50 g)
Cherries: 20- (+ 50 g of syrup obtained from cooking)
Gelatin in sheets: 2tsp(10 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Cherries: 1.7lbs(780 g)- (+ 300 g of syrup obtained from cooking)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)- granulated
Lemon juice: 4.7tbsp(70 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: High
Note plus the cooling time of the cake in the fridge, about 4 hours

instructions:
All of us, at least once, have had the pleasure of tasting a cheesecake. Whether it's Nutella , Nougat cheesecake , chocolate , or strawberry , its unmistakable flavor always leaves us satisfied. This Made-in-USA dessert is indeed one of the most popular desserts at home and most requested at restaurants. In this recipe, we present the version with one of the quintessential late spring-summer fruits: cherries. Part of the juicy fruits are mixed with the ricotta and cream cheese-based cream; the rest will be used to create your picturesque cherry topping. Delicious, irresistible, refreshingly delightful, and perfect for a snack with friends, even as an summer birthday cake. You can prepare this delicacy out of season by using canned cherries, although in smaller quantities, as they are very sugary. So, what are you waiting for? Enchant your guests with cherry cheesecake. But first, warn them: after the first bite, it will be hard to stop. Taste to believe!
To make the cherry cheesecake, start by preparing the base: melt the butter over very low heat and let it cool. Place the biscuits in a food processor and run the blades until finely ground into a fine powder; transfer the mixture to a bowl and pour in the cooled butter . Mix everything together.
Pour the mixture into a 9-inch springform pan lined with parchment paper and, using the back of a spoon, press the mixture firmly onto the bottom of the pan to form a compact and smooth base . Let the mixture rest in the freezer for at least half an hour so that the base becomes solid. Meanwhile, proceed with the topping preparation: wash and pit 2 lbs of cherries .
Set aside about twenty which you can slice . Put the remaining cherries (approximately 1.7 lbs) in a saucepan and add the sugar .
Grate the zest of one lemon , mix , and pour in 1/3 cup of lemon juice .
Stir again and cook for about 10 minutes over medium heat , then drain the cherries and set them aside to cool, collecting the syrup obtained from cooking, which will be divided into two parts : 1/4 cup will go into the cream, 1 1/4 cups will be used for the final topping. Move on to the cream: sift the ricotta .
Add the cream cheese , then add the seeds from a vanilla bean and the powdered sugar and mix to combine everything .
Soak 0.4 oz of gelatin sheets in a bowl with cold water for about 10 minutes. Meanwhile, heat 1/4 cup of syrup in a saucepan ; when it is hot, turn off the heat and add the squeezed gelatin . Stir to dissolve completely and let it cool slightly before adding it to the cream cheese mixture .
Also add the 20 cherries set aside, sliced , and mix everything vigorously from top to bottom . Now take the compacted base, pour in the cream , and store the cheesecake in the fridge for at least 2 hours.
Soak another 0.4 oz of gelatin in cold water (as done previously) and meanwhile heat the remaining cherry syrup (1 1/4 cups) in a saucepan . Once hot, turn off the heat and add the squeezed gelatin , stirring thoroughly to dissolve it completely .
Once the mixture has cooled, pour it over the cooked cherries , stir and pour everything over the now set cheesecake . Use a spatula to distribute the cherries evenly on the surface, then refrigerate for about 2-3 hours before enjoying your cherry cheesecake !
You can store the cherry cheesecake in the refrigerator for 2-3 days covered with plastic wrap. You can freeze it, perhaps dividing it into portions, in suitable food containers. Thaw the cheesecake in the refrigerator when needed.
You can prepare the cheesecake the day before serving it so that it firms up well overnight.

