name:
Prawns with Brandy, Stracciatella, and Pistachio
ingredients:
Prawns: 12- Argentinian
Brandy: 3.5oz(100 ml)
Stracciatella cheese: 4.2oz(120 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Unsalted pistachios: 1 ½cup(200 g)- shelled and roasted
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 7tbsp(100 g)
Orange juice: 0.6cup(140 g)- (2)
Lime juice: 2oz(60 g)- (2)
Ground pistachio: to taste
Lime peel: to taste
Lemon thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 3 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 40 minutes of rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
Tender, juicy, and with an intense citrus aroma, our prawns with brandy, stracciatella, and pistachio earn a rightful place on holiday menus, to be served as a fish appetizer or as a main course. A creamy pistachio pesto and fresh stracciatella accompany these delicious prawns, marinated with orange and lime juice, seared in a pan with a splash of liqueur, adding a fragrant and aromatic touch to the dish. Enrich your Christmas table with these refined and elegant prawns and indulge in a true gourmet treat!
Come and discover other delicious fish recipes:
To prepare the prawns with brandy, stracciatella, and pistachio, first clean the prawns. Remove the head , legs, and shell leaving the tail. Remove the intestinal vein by making an incision on the back and rinse under running water.
Then, place them in a bowl . Squeeze the juice from the oranges and limes .
Strain the juices through a sieve and pour them over the prawns . Cover with plastic wrap and let rest in the fridge for at least 40 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the pistachio pesto. Pour the pistachios into a mixer .

Blend them, adding the oil gradually . Then season with salt and pepper and mix .
Heat a non-stick pan lightly greased with oil and place the prawns . Sear them for 20 seconds on one side and 20 seconds on the other, then pour in the brandy and let all the alcohol evaporate, 2 minutes, max 3, will be enough.
The prawns are ready , you can plate them: pour a tablespoon of pistachio pesto and place the prawns on top .

Season with a tablespoon of stracciatella , grated lime zest , the citrus marinade juice, and the cooking juices from the prawns .
Finish with thyme and crushed pistachios . The prawns with brandy, stracciatella, and pistachio are ready .
We recommend consuming the prawns with brandy, stracciatella, and pistachio immediately.
We recommend not overcooking the prawns as they should remain tender and juicy!

