name:
Paccheri with 3 Tomatoes
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 10.2oz(290 g)- from Gragnano
San Marzano tomatoes: 12.3oz(350 g)- peeled
Tomatoes: 12.3oz(350 g)- del Piennolo del Vesuvio
Datterino tomatoes: 5.3oz(150 g)
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- (only the milk)
Garlic: 1clove- (poached)
Rice starch: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.9cup(200 g)
Shallot: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The spaghetti al pomodoro , in their simplicity, represent the essence of Italian cuisine. From the creativity of chef Rosanna Marziale comes a delicious reinterpretation, paccheri with 3 tomatoes! A first course made exclusively with local ingredients, starting with the main stars: San Marzano tomatoes and date tomatoes meet Piennolo cherry tomatoes from Vesuvius, a typical Campania product characterized by a less watery pulp and a particularly firm and compact skin. Three types of tomatoes prepared in three different ways to best appreciate their characteristics, enhanced by the fresh and delicate touch of buffalo mozzarella milk. Which pasta shape to choose to collect all the flavors and aromas of this sauce? Obviously, the paccheri from Gragnano that, as they say, must "sound in the mouth"! Follow the recipe instructions and we assure you that with the paccheri with 3 tomatoes, you will taste a real symphony...
To make the paccheri with 3 tomatoes, start by sautéing a clove of garlic in its skin in a pan with a drizzle of oil , then add the San Marzano tomatoes and simmer for a few minutes .
Move on to the shallot-infused oil: clean and cut the shallot into 4 parts , then place it in a small saucepan with the extra virgin olive oil . Bring to a boil and let it fry briefly , then remove the saucepan from the heat and let it cool.
Meanwhile, halve the Piennolo cherry tomatoes and place them on a very hot grill with the skin side down. Season with a drizzle of oil and grill until the skin is blackened .
Transfer the grilled cherry tomatoes to a bowl and remove the most burnt parts that would give the sauce a bitter aftertaste . Add the oil with the shallot , salt , and pepper.
Mix and blend everything with an immersion blender , then strain the mixture through a sieve to obtain a smooth and homogeneous consistency .
Finally, pour the date tomatoes, which you previously immersed in a bowl with water, into a hot pan without oil . Cook over high heat for a few minutes, piercing them with a fork to soften them slightly . Bring a pot of salted water to a boil where you will cook the paccheri .
Meanwhile, halve a buffalo mozzarella (you should take 1.4 oz) and squeeze it into a bowl to obtain the milk . Add the rice starch and blend with an immersion blender .
At this point, remove the garlic from the San Marzano sauce and adjust the salt. Add the al dente drained paccheri and moisten with almost all the mozzarella milk .
Toss the pasta to combine it with the sauce , then proceed with plating: place the paccheri with San Marzano sauce on the plates and season each with the grilled Piennolo cherry tomato sauce .
Finish with the remaining mozzarella milk and the date tomatoes . Your paccheri with 3 tomatoes are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the paccheri with 3 tomatoes immediately. Alternatively, they can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
After extracting the milk, you can use the remaining buffalo mozzarella to top a pizza or to make other delicious recipes... like gnocchi alla sorrentina , for example!
Piennolo tomatoes from Vesuvius are grown on the slopes of the volcano. These tomatoes have a rather thick skin, have a small tip at the base, and are usually hung in bunches in cellars or homes so that over time, as weeks and months pass, they lose water. They can be consumed throughout the year simply by adding them to recipes slightly scalded or pan-fried. For example, even in a fragrant spaghetti with clams!
San Marzano tomatoes are a Protected Designation of Origin product, originating from the Agro Sarnese-Nocerino area. It is quite rare to find them on the market as private customers, as most of the production is destined for export or the restaurant industry. However, similar varieties to San Marzano can be found that are equally excellent for making sauce with peeled tomatoes or for use in recipes.
Another excellent product from the region, this mozzarella is a fresh spun paste cheese (the only one to have obtained the European "DOP" recognition), produced exclusively with buffalo milk in the areas of Caserta, Benevento, some areas near Naples, and some parts of Lazio (such as Latina and Frosinone). The color is porcelain white, and its outer part is very thin.

