name:
Calamari Rings and Potatoes
ingredients:
Calamari (squid): 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (cleaned and without head and skin)
Potatoes: 1lb(700 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Peeled plum tomatoes: 0.9cup(200 g)
White wine: (80 g)
Water: (200 g)
Oregano: to taste- fresh
Sage: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Calamari rings and potatoes are a main course of fish, easy and tasty. Like all stewed dishes, there will also be a delicious sauce of cherry tomatoes that will flavor both the calamari rings and the potatoes during cooking. This simple, genuine, and fragrant recipe is prepared in a single pan to save time and dishes. Soft and enveloping, they represent a valid alternative to traditional calamari recipes:
To make calamari rings and potatoes, first peel the potatoes , then cut them in half and chop them into irregular chunks . In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil with the garlic .
Add the potatoes and the sage , sauté for a few moments, then deglaze with the white wine . Let the alcohol evaporate, then add the peeled cherry tomatoes .
At this point, you can add water: about 7 oz for a very "stewed" result, otherwise for a creamier dish you can start cooking without adding water and adjust as needed, adding hot water if necessary. Cook with the lid on over low heat for 30-35 minutes or until the potatoes are soft. Meanwhile, cut the cleaned calamari into rings .
After the potato cooking time, remove the garlic . Add the calamari rings and salt .
Pepper and cook for about 5-6 minutes. When done, season with fresh oregano and serve the calamari rings and potatoes piping hot .
We recommend consuming the calamari immediately, but if there are leftovers, you can store them in the fridge for a day. You can prepare the potatoes in advance and cook just the calamari when ready to serve.
Pay attention to the cooking of the calamari, as overcooking can make them rubbery. If you purchase whole calamari, you can also add the tentacles to the pan.

