name:
Potato Salad
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Natural plain yogurt: ½cup(125 g)- unsweetened
Mustard: 2tbsp(30 g)- delicate
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: 1bunch- to chop
Mayonnaise: 0.4cup(100 g)
Chives: 1bunch
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Potato salad is one of the simplest side dishes to prepare; at the same time, it can be personalized with sauces and dressings as you prefer. In this recipe, we decided to take inspiration from Bavarian flavors, enriching common boiled potatoes with a special dressing with a bold and sweet-sour taste. A winning mix of mayonnaise , mustard, plain yogurt, and aromatic herbs will tantalize your taste buds, not just for the unique taste but also for the creamy texture! The result is an enticing side dish that will tastily liven up a pan-fried chicken breast or an oven-baked sea bass .
Come and discover more delicious potato salads for all seasons:
To prepare the potato salad, start by boiling the whole potatoes with skins on for about 40 minutes starting from cold water . Check the cooking with the prongs of a fork. Meanwhile, prepare the dressing: chop the parsley and chives . In a very large bowl, add the yogurt .
Add the mayonnaise and mustard, then mix with a whisk .

Flavor with parsley and chives , then season with pepper and salt .

Mix again to combine . Meanwhile, the potatoes will be cooked, drain them , peel them, and cut them into large cubes .
Place them in the bowl with the dressing and mix gently to flavor them without breaking them. Store the potato salad in the fridge until use .
The potato salad keeps in the refrigerator for a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
To make this recipe more gourmet, you can prepare your own homemade mayonnaise.
A spring variant: new potatoes and plenty of dill!
The potatoes can also be steamed, already cut into cubes of the desired size. Also, discover how to cook Potatoes in Pressure Cooker !

