name:
Cold Pasta with Eggplant and Feta
ingredients:
Whole wheat Tortiglioni pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Eggplant: 9oz(250 g)
Salted capers: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Whole grain bread: 3.5oz(100 g)- stale
Mint: to taste
Feta cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 2- small
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Who doesn't love cold pasta ? This dish proves to be a delicious and practical solution for the hotter months when you don't feel like spending too much time at the stove, but even in winter it can become a convenient lunch to take to work, like the Pasta salad with pears, bacon, and walnuts ! Today, however, we delight you with an irresistible summer variant: cold pasta with eggplant and feta! Eggplants, the quintessential Mediterranean vegetable, are paired with the strong flavor of feta cheese and capers. The rustic note of the pasta is enhanced by the crunchy consistency of whole wheat bread crumbs, while the fresh aroma of mint makes everything even more appetizing! Hurry up and set the table or prepare your lunchbox... the cold pasta with eggplant and feta will spread an inviting summer scent wherever you are!
Instead of eggplants, try our pasta with peppers, sausage, and feta or try all our recipes for an easy and quick cold pasta, the ultimate summer dish!
To prepare the cold pasta with eggplant and feta, first, bring a pot of salted water to a boil for cooking the pasta. Then take the stale whole wheat bread, slice it, put it in a blender with steel blades , and blend until you obtain coarse crumbs . Wash the chili peppers, remove the seeds, and finely chop them .
Pour half of the oil into a pan, add the chopped chili pepper and bread crumbs , and let them brown over medium-high heat for a few minutes, being careful not to burn them . Now wash the eggplants and remove the ends; slice the eggplants ,
then cut them into strips about 3/8 inch wide and finally into cubes . Cook the pasta in plenty of salted water to taste. Separately, heat the other half of the oil in a pan, add a clove of garlic and the eggplant cubes .
Cook over medium-high heat for 4-5 minutes until golden , then remove the garlic from the pan, season with salt and pepper. Meanwhile, rinse the capers under running water to remove the salt and chop them with a knife . When the pasta is al dente, drain it and quickly run it under a stream of water
and let it cool on a large baking sheet after drizzling it with oil . Now take a large bowl and combine all the ingredients: the golden eggplant cubes, the mint leaves you have previously washed and dried , the chopped capers ,
the toasted bread crumbs , the whole wheat pasta , and finally the crumbled feta . Mix well and divide the seasoned pasta into serving plates, garnishing with some more crumbled feta and bread crumbs : your cold pasta with eggplant and feta is ready to be enjoyed!
The cold pasta with eggplant and feta can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Feta, eggplant, and mint immediately evoke Greece! But if you prefer to stay local, you can try using diced provolone and basil leaves, and maybe add some confit tomatoes ... unleash your imagination and let us know your variations!

