name:
Hazelnut Ice Cream
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1cup(240 g)
Sugar: ½cup(90 g)
Hazelnut paste: 1.4oz(70 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 60
Glucose: 1.2oz(35 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + resting time in the freezer (about 2.5 hours)

instructions:
When you walk into an ice cream shop... what a dilemma? However, there are some flavors that are always a sure bet: Stracciatella , Cream , Whipped Cream , Coffee ... and of course hazelnut ice cream! It's a perfect recipe for hazelnut lovers, who will already have enjoyed our Hazelnut Sorbet , so we couldn't resist tempting you with this homemade hazelnut ice cream. The precious ice cream maker will help you achieve a creamy and perfectly textured result. Garnished with chopped hazelnuts or a coffee or dark chocolate topping, your hazelnut ice cream will be perfect for both a snack and a summer dessert! For homemade ice cream lovers, here are more tempting ideas:
To prepare the hazelnut ice cream, pour the milk into a saucepan along with the sugar and glucose and stir over low heat. Add the hazelnut paste .
Continue to stir to dissolve everything , then turn off the heat and add the cream . Transfer everything into a jug and blend with an immersion mixer .
Place the mixture in the freezer for 30 minutes . After this time, pour the mixture into the ice cream maker and turn it on for about 30-40 minutes .
You should achieve a creamy consistency . Transfer the ice cream into a baking dish and place it in the freezer for about 2 hours. At this point, you can garnish your hazelnut ice cream with chopped hazelnuts and enjoy it !
Hazelnut ice cream can be stored in the freezer for up to a week. The final step in the freezer helps stabilize the ice cream, but you can skip it if you prefer.
As an alternative to glucose, you can use the same amount of honey.
If you can't find hazelnut paste, you can make it at home by toasting and blending hazelnuts.

