name:
Creamy Bucatini with Zucchini and Mint
ingredients:
Bucatini pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Zucchini: 10.6oz(300 g)- null
Cashews: ½cup(100 g)- natural
Mint: to taste
Nutritional yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Lemon peel: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
When you hear about bucatini, do you immediately think of amatriciana ? Today, we step outside the boundaries of traditional cuisine and try our hand at preparing a vegan first course: creamy bucatini with zucchini and mint! A tasty recipe with a rich and enveloping sauce made with just a few ingredients: zucchini, mint, cashews, and nutritional yeast, a natural flavor enhancer used instead of cheese. With the help of a simple mixer, you will obtain a velvety cream that will voluptuously coat every forkful of pasta, bringing an unusual dish to your table, suitable for everyone!
If you liked the creamy bucatini with zucchini and mint, try these delicious vegan first courses as well:
To make creamy bucatini with zucchini and mint, first trim the zucchini and slice them into rounds . In a pan, brown a peeled garlic clove with a drizzle of oil , then add the zucchini .
Salt , pepper, and cook on medium heat for about 10 minutes, turning them on both sides . Once ready, set them aside .
In the meantime, place the cashews in a saucepan and cover them with water , then put them on the heat and boil for about 5 minutes, just until they soften . Also, cook the bucatini in salted boiling water .
Once softened, pour the cashews with their water into a jug , then add almost all the zucchini and a tablespoon of nutritional yeast .
Add a few mint leaves and a pinch of salt and blend with an immersion blender until you get a creamy and homogeneous consistency, thinning if necessary with a little pasta cooking water .
Drain the bucatini al dente and transfer them to the same pan in which you cooked the zucchini, then add the cream and a ladle of cooking water. Briefly toss the pasta to combine it with the sauce, adding more cooking water if necessary . Garnish the dish with the remaining zucchini, a few mint leaves, and some grated lemon zest: your creamy bucatini with zucchini and mint are ready to be served !
Creamy bucatini with zucchini and mint can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days in an airtight container.
Nutritional yeast is a deactivated yeast widely used in vegan cooking and by those who are lactose-intolerant: thanks to its cheese-like flavor, it is ideal for seasoning first courses, salads, and savory doughs.

