name:
Amberjack Ceviche with Cherry Tomato Puree
ingredients:
Amberjack fish: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (frozen fillet)
Lime juice: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Datterino tomatoes: 9oz(250 g)- red
Yellow cherry tomatoes: 1.1cups(250 g)
Green cherry tomatoes: 0.55lb(250 g)
Rocoto pepper: 1.1oz(30 g)
Red peppers: 1.1oz(30 g)
Red onions: 0.7oz(20 g)
Lime: 1
Mint: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
The Ceviche is a dish made of marinated fish, originating from South America, which can also be made with Shrimp Ceviche or seafood. Peru is the homeland of ceviche, although this preparation is the result of the meeting of multiple cultures, including the Japanese one, which has been very present in the territory due to a strong migration in the last century. Exotic flavors, color, and taste make this recipe a delectable dish. Viviana Varese, a Michelin-starred chef, brought a breeze of these flavors to GialloZafferano's kitchen by preparing amberjack ceviche with cherry tomato puree. This premium fish is presented in soft cubes laid on a colorful bed of cherry tomatoes and a tasty dressing that enhances the flavor of the fish without overwhelming it: Tropea onions, red bell pepper, and rocoto, an exotic ingredient halfway between bell pepper and chili. We are sure we have whetted your appetite, now you just have to discover this extraordinary dish and all the steps to make it.
To prepare the amberjack ceviche with cherry tomato puree, you will need to use frozen fish. Take the amberjack fillets , remove the skin by sliding the knife blade between the flesh and the skin itself. Then remove the central part, the darker blood area . This indeed is not ideal for raw preparation (you can use it for a cooked preparation). This way you will also remove the part with the bones and will not have to debone the fillet. Then trim the parts of the fillet you are going to use to have a clean and precise preparation also in terms of aesthetics. Now cut the fish into 3/4 inch x 3/4 inch cubes.
Pour ice, water , and two pinches of fine salt into a bowl. Add the amberjack cubes and stir the bowl for a couple of minutes. This way the fish will absorb the salt well, and by cooling down, the flesh will harden slightly, becoming more crunchy.
At this point, the fish will be whiter, so pick up the cubes with tongs, transfer them to a tray lined with paper towels, and gently dry them . Move on to the marinating: in a small bowl, season the amberjack cubes with hand-pressed lime juice , then add fine salt .
Mix and let marinate for 5-6 minutes, the time needed to work on the cherry tomato puree. Blend the yellow cherry tomatoes with a blender or an immersion mixer to reduce them to a puree .
Sift the obtained puree into another bowl ; season with a pinch of salt and mix .
Repeat the same procedure for the green and red cherry tomatoes, placing the purees in 3 different bowls . Now you can take care of the ingredients for the seasoning: take the red bell pepper, remove the internal white filament, and cut it into very small cubes ; do the same for the rocoto .
and the Tropea onion . Transfer the onion to a bowl along with the cubes of bell pepper and rocoto .
Grate the lime zest , then peel it alive and separate the segments .
Chop the lime segments and add them to the seasoning . Add the chopped mint and grated lime zest .
Salt and season all the chopped ingredients with plenty of oil . Remove the amberjack cubes from the marinade and transfer them to another bowl, then season them with oil . Now everything is ready, it's just time to plate. In a deep plate, place the cherry tomato purees side by side , lightly tap the base of the plate with the palm of your hand so that they distribute evenly across the bottom.
Place 4 fish cubes for each portion and garnish them with a spoonful of the previously prepared chopped mix . Retrieve some of the dressing oil and place it on each bite. Garnish with mint leaves, and your amberjack ceviche with cherry tomato puree is ready to be served .
The amberjack ceviche with cherry tomato puree should be consumed immediately after preparation.
You can extend the marinating up to 30 minutes.
Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of rocoto, you can use common chili pepper, but you should reduce the amount by using 1/3 of the provided dose.
With the central part of the fish, you can create any cooked preparation; with the scraps, a tartare will be a good way not to waste. You can also prepare an amberjack ragù with both parts.
Placing the fish in water, ice, and salt and moving it for a few minutes will help make the flesh firmer to the bite.
Another trick to obtain smooth and shiny purees is to add a pinch of xanthan gum, a food additive that has thickening-stabilizing properties.

