name:
Lemon Meringue Tart
ingredients:
Whole cane sugar: 4 ¼tbsp(60 g)- (Muscovado)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: ½cup(120 g)- cold from the fridge
Eggs: 1- organic medium
Fine salt: 1pinch
Lemons: 3- (juice and zest)
Sugar: 1.1cups(220 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Cornstarch: 2tbsp(30 g)
Eggs: 3
Egg yolks: 2
Egg whites: ½cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the chilling times for the shortcrust pastry and the tart

instructions:
In a dessert, does appearance or substance matter more? The lemon curd and meringue tart will bring together supporters of both theories: its fragrant pastry crust embraces a rich lemon cream and a cloud of meringue in a triumph of flavor that delights the palate and, with its neat white topping with delicate browned shades, certainly knows how to please the eyes! Elegant and with a slightly English allure, this delightful dessert is perfect for any occasion and ideal even at tea time, as long as it's accompanied by a cup of good Earl Grey... and a pleasant conversation among friends!
Let yourself be inspired by other sweet delights:
To prepare the lemon curd and meringue tart, start by making the pastry crust. In the stand mixer with the paddle attachment, combine very cold cubed butter and flour . Turn the mixer on at medium-low speed and mix until the texture is sandy. With the mixer still running, add the muscovado sugar , followed by the egg and salt.
When the mixture is uniform , turn off the mixer and transfer the dough to the work surface . Quickly work it into a ball and wrap it in plastic wrap . Place the dough in the fridge to chill for at least 1 hour.
Meanwhile, prepare the filling: the lemon curd. To make it, thoroughly wash the lemons and grate the zest , taking only the yellow part and not the white underneath, which is bitter. In a small pot, melt the butter and add the sugar . Squeeze the lemons to extract the juice and add it to the pot once the sugar has melted .
In a separate bowl, whisk together the eggs and cornstarch , and when it forms a smooth batter , pour it into the pot .
Add the zest and thicken the curd over low heat, stirring often to prevent lumps . Let it cool slightly. Retrieve the chilled dough from the fridge, lightly flour the work surface, and roll out the dough to about 1/4 inch thick .
Place a sheet of parchment paper on the baking sheet, butter a 8x8 inch square pan, place it on the lined baking sheet, and lay the dough inside , pressing it carefully. Trim the excess dough from the edges with a knife , then prick the base of your tart with a fork .
Proceed with the necessary steps for How to do blind baking : line the tart with parchment paper and fill it with baking weights (if you don't have these, you can use rice or dried beans) . Blind bake the tart for 25 minutes in a preheated conventional oven at 350°F, then remove the weights and parchment paper and continue baking for another 10 minutes. In total, the tart should bake for 35 minutes. Once baked, remove it from the oven and let it cool completely before removing it from the pan . Pour the curd inside ,
smoothing it out with a spatula . Transfer the filled tart to the fridge to set for at least 1 hour . Next, make the Italian meringue: place the water and sugar in a small pot over low heat
and get a kitchen thermometer. When the syrup reaches 239°F , place the room temperature egg whites in the stand mixer with the whisk attachment and start whisking at medium speed. Lower the mixer speed and add half of the syrup to the semi-whipped egg whites once the syrup reaches 250°F , then increase the speed again and add the remaining syrup in a thin stream. Continue whisking until the meringue is cool.
At the end, when you lift the whisk, you should get a classic peak . Transfer the meringue to a piping bag with a plain tip, retrieve the set tart from the fridge, and start decorating the surface with small meringue peaks close to each other . Finally, use a kitchen torch to brown the meringue ; if you don't have this tool, you can place the tart under the oven grill for a few minutes until the peaks are well browned. Your lemon curd and meringue tart is ready to shine!
You can store the lemon curd and meringue tart in the fridge, covered, for a couple of days. To better preserve its freshness, it's recommended to do the meringue and browning just before serving the dessert.
Blind baking is an excellent method to keep the tart 'in shape' during baking, but with a little extra trick, the result will be truly chef-worthy: before filling it with parchment paper and weights, place your raw tart in the fridge for half an hour. The cold will set the shape, making blind baking even more effective!
Looking for a no-bake alternative? Try the lemon curd tart recipe!

