name:
Barley Salad with Arugula Pesto, Green Beans and Zucchini
ingredients:
Pearl barley: 1.75lbs(350 g)
Zucchini: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Green beans: 10.6oz(300 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Arugula: 3.5oz(100 g)
Pine nuts: 3tbsp(40 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- to grate
Ice: to taste- tbsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 5spoonfuls- about
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
When we think of first courses to enjoy cold, the rice salad is often the most obvious choice! To change the menu, we propose the barley salad with arugula pesto, green beans, and zucchini: a vegetarian recipe based on cooked and raw vegetables, dressed with a creamy arugula pesto . The cold pearl barley salad is a very nutritious Summer barley and spelt salad dish, thanks to the fiber provided by the grains, but also extremely versatile because it can be enriched to your liking. Prepare the barley salad with arugula pesto, green beans, and zucchini for a picnic or as a lunchbox for the office... then have fun creating new variations for a different lunch every time!
To prepare the barley salad with arugula pesto, green beans, and zucchini, first bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the barley for the time indicated on the package . Meanwhile, put another pot on the stove with salted water to boil for the vegetables and prepare the other ingredients: wash and trim the zucchini , then cut them into rounds .
Trim the green beans as well and cut them into 2-3 parts , then cut the cherry tomatoes in half .
Add the green beans to the boiling water and, after 5 minutes, also add the zucchini . Cook the vegetables for about 10 minutes; they should still be crunchy. Once the barley cooking time has elapsed, drain it into a large bowl .
Now prepare the arugula pesto: wash and dry the arugula, then place it in a tall, narrow container along with the pine nuts , grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese , and a couple of ice cubes .
Salt, pepper and add about 5 tablespoons of oil . Blend with an immersion blender to obtain a creamy and homogeneous sauce; if necessary, add more oil to achieve the desired consistency. Pour the arugula pesto into the bowl with the barley and mix well.
Add the green beans with zucchini and the cherry tomatoes . Mix everything and serve your barley salad with arugula pesto, green beans, and zucchini !
It is recommended to consume the barley salad with arugula pesto, green beans, and zucchini immediately. Alternatively, you can store it in the refrigerator for up to one day.
The arugula pesto can be kept in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in an airtight jar and covered with a layer of oil. You can freeze it in small jars.
To give the arugula pesto an even more pronounced flavor, you can replace half the amount of Parmigiano Reggiano with grated Pecorino cheese.

