name:
Lime Fried Calamari
ingredients:
Calamari (squid): 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to clean)
Semolina: ½cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Lime: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: 8 ½cups(2 l)
Apple cider vinegar: 0.83cup(200 g)
Honey: ½cup(100 g)
White wine: 0.4cup(100 g)
Tomato paste: 1spoonful
Soy sauce: 1spoonful
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Juniper berries: to taste
Cloves: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Golden and crispy Fried Calamari is a main dish that everyone loves. Today we want to tantalize your taste buds with a variant that has fresh and exotic notes, created for us by Chef Felice Lo Basso: lime fried calamari. The chef reveals the secrets to a dry and fragrant fry , as tradition dictates, flavored with lime zest that will give a very aromatic touch. To accompany these delicious rings of calamari, there is a sweet and sour sauce with a spicy taste that will make this dish even more enticing. All you have to do is discover all the secrets for a perfect fry!
To prepare the lime fried calamari, pour the apple cider vinegar, wine , honey , and soy sauce into a saucepan.
Add the tomato paste , juniper berries, cloves , and bay leaves .
Bring all the ingredients to the stove and let them reduce by a quarter for about an hour. Strain the resulting sauce through a sieve and set aside .
Now clean the squid: rinse them under running water , detach the head and eviscerate them . Also, remove the internal bone and the skin.
Cut the tentacles and remove the eyes . Once the squid is cleaned , cut the body into strips .
Let them dry on a tea towel . In a bowl, mix flour and semolina . Flour the squid .
Lay them on a tray , meanwhile heat the oil for frying, immerse the squid and fry until golden .
Drain on paper towels and salt , finally flavor with grated lime and black pepper. Serve the lime fried calamari with the sweet and sour sauce .
We recommend consuming the fry immediately; otherwise, it will lose its crunchiness.
The blend of semolina and flour will make the fry crispier.

