name:
Ricotta Gnocchi
ingredients:
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)-
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 4.3oz(120 g)- (to be grated)
Fine salt: to taste
Semolina: to taste- (for dusting the work surface)
Tomato purée: 2.1cups(500 g)- rustic
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls-
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: 6leaves

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note +2 hours of ricotta draining

instructions:
Homemade gnocchi are a must of Italian tradition for Sunday lunch, although in the Rome area they usually represent the classic Thursday dish. Today we wanted to cater to those who want to make gnocchi without potatoes, for an equally soft and appetizing variant: ricotta gnocchi! Delicious gnocchi without potatoes, but with the addition of fresh cow's milk ricotta for an extremely delicate result! How to make soft ricotta gnocchi? We reveal everything in the recipe card and invite you to dress them with basil-flavored tomato sauce, to fully savor all the flavor of ricotta! Just a few minutes of cooking and your ricotta gnocchi will be ready, just a generous sprinkle of Parmigiano is missing!
Gnocchi lovers can also try the Zucchini gnocchi variant, perfect for summer, or the sweet one Czech fruit dumplings (knedliky) variant, for the more adventurous!
Discover many tasty and always different gnocchi recipes:
Discover more delicious Gnocchi recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the ricotta gnocchi, drain the ricotta in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours, covered with plastic wrap, until it loses excess liquid . Prepare the sauce: pour the indicated amount of oil into a saucepan, add a whole peeled garlic clove and let it brown. At this point, pour in the tomato puree .
Adjust the salt, stir , then cover with a lid and cook for about 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. At the end of cooking, remove the garlic and add the basil leaves .
In the meantime, sift the drained ricotta into a bowl , add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese , the slightly beaten eggs , and a pinch of salt.
Finally, gradually add the flour , so you can adjust the consistency. Work briefly with a spatula to mix, once you have added all the flour, knead quickly by hand on a work surface dusted with a little semolina , just long enough to obtain a homogeneous dough; otherwise, the gluten mesh will develop. Transfer the dough to a work surface . Before starting to make the gnocchi, put a large pot with plenty of water on the heat and salt it when it boils.
Dust the work surface with semolina and work a piece of dough at a time, turning it into a log of about 3/4 inch in diameter . Using a slightly floured scraper or the blade of a knife, cut into pieces of about 1/2 inch and as they are ready, transfer them to a cloth dusted with more semolina .
Once you have finished , cook your ricotta gnocchi in 3 batches, to avoid overcrowding the pot and ensuring they cook perfectly. So, pour some into the pot with boiling water (boil over moderate heat so that the water simmers during the gnocchi cooking and does not boil violently) , until they rise to the surface; it will take a few moments, then scoop them out with a slotted spoon .
Turn the medium-low heat on under the saucepan with the sauce, then as they are ready, pour in the gnocchi ; stir and continue cooking to let them absorb the flavor, it will only take a few moments . Once ready, quickly serve your ricotta gnocchi .
Consume the ricotta gnocchi as soon as they are prepared. If there are any leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day.
You can freeze the gnocchi raw.
If you want to flavor your ricotta gnocchi, you could choose to add a bit of thyme to the dough or even a mix of chopped aromatic herbs.
A spicy touch? Add a nice chili pepper to the garlic and oil sauté, your sauce will be even more flavorful!

