name:
Stuffed Squid with Feta and Cherry Tomatoes
ingredients:
Calamari (squid): 1.8lbs(800 g)- (2 large)
Feta cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1cup(120 g)
Garlic: ½clove
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Thanks to their versatility, squids can be used to create many different recipes from Mediterranean cuisine. One of the most beloved is stuffed squid which we present to you in a delightful variant: stuffed squid with feta and cherry tomatoes! A second course inspired by the flavors of Greece, prominently featuring feta, which pairs perfectly with the freshness of tomatoes. After being stuffed, the squids are first cooked on the grill and then baked , and they are delicious to enjoy both hot and at room temperature, perhaps with a side salad! Also discover our stuffed squid in a skillet and those Baked stuffed calamari , very easy to prepare!
To prepare the stuffed squid with feta and cherry tomatoes, first, clean the squid following the instructions in our guide “ How to clean squid ”. Remove the skin, then separate the tentacles from the body . Rinse both the body and tentacles, and chop the latter . Cook the tentacles in a skillet with 1.5 tbsps of oil for about 4 minutes over medium heat. Meanwhile, wash and chop the cherry tomatoes into pieces .
Chop the parsley and the garlic, then crumble the feta and combine all the ingredients in a bowl. Also, add the cooked tentacles and mix well .
Fill the squid bodies with the stuffing and seal the opening with a toothpick. At this point, place the stuffed squids on a well-heated cast iron grill and cook them for 4 minutes per side , then transfer the squids to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Season with salt, pepper, and the other 1.5 tbsps of oil and bake at 340°F for 5 minutes on convection mode. Your stuffed squids with feta and cherry tomatoes are ready to be served!
The stuffed squids with feta and cherry tomatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
You can reduce or omit the garlic, depending on your taste!

