name:
Peppers in Oil
ingredients:
Bell peppers: 0.9lb(400 g)- yellow and red
White wine vinegar: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Garlic: 3cloves
Thyme: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the time to sanitize and pasteurize the jars

instructions:
With this recipe for peppers in oil, you can capture the flavor of summer in a jar to enjoy all year round! A delicious homemade preserve with vibrant colors, perfect for brightening up your table, even on a simple bruschetta. With their crunchy and meaty texture and strong flavor, peppers in oil are ideal to serve as an appetizer or side dish to accompany your favorite dishes. They are also a convenient and practical last-minute solution because they are ready to use directly from the pantry!
Besides peppers in oil, also try the version of sweet and sour peppers and these appetizing oil preserves recipes:
To make peppers in oil, start by sanitizing the jars and ensure you use new lids. Then wash the peppers under running water, remove the tops and eliminate the seeds. Cut the peppers in half and also remove the white membranes, then cut them into strips about 1/4 inch thick .
Cut the tops into strips as well and collect everything in a bowl . Finally, peel the garlic cloves and cut them in half .
Pour the vinegar and water into a pot and bring to a boil .
Add the peppers and let them boil for 4 minutes, then add the thyme, rosemary , and garlic .
Boil for another minute , then drain both the peppers and the herbs on a clean kitchen towel ; they should be al dente. Once they are well dried, place them in the sterilized jars, alternating the peppers with the garlic and the aromatic herbs, taking care to fill as much of the empty spaces as possible .
At this point, pour the oil into the jars so that it completely covers the vegetables, leaving about 3/4 inch before the rim . Close the jars tightly, but not too tightly to allow air to escape . Transfer the jars to a large pot and cover them with water, then bring to a boil and boil for 30 minutes . After this time, turn off the heat and let them cool in the water. Then check that a vacuum seal has been created by pressing the center of the lid. Also, check the oil level in the following hours: if it drops, leaving the peppers exposed, you will need to open the jars, refill, and proceed with new pasteurization. If the jars are vacuum-sealed and have a good oil level, you can store your peppers in oil in the pantry!
If the vacuum seal and pasteurization are done correctly, peppers in oil can be stored for up to a year and a half in a cool, dark place.
For optimal flavor, it is recommended to wait at least 2-3 months before consuming.
Once opened, the jar can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 months, ensuring that the peppers are covered with oil.
Be careful not to prolong the boiling of the peppers, otherwise, they will lose their texture.
It is important to dry the peppers well before jarring them.
If you prefer, you can insert a cloth between the jars and the pot to prevent them from bumping during boiling.
After boiling, you can turn the jars upside down on a surface and let them cool to ensure that any air bubbles escape.
Once ready, monitor the jars for half a day to check if the oil level drops (it may be partially absorbed by the peppers): in this case, it is necessary to add more oil and proceed again with boiling the jars.

