name:
Pici with Cherry Tomatoes and Ricotta with Lemon Aroma
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Water: 0.6cup(150 g)- warm
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Datterino tomatoes: 14.1oz(400 g)
Tomato paste: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Anchovies: 2fillets
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: 1bunch
Extra virgin olive oil: 5spoonfuls
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(200 g)
Lemon peel: ½- (to be grated)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Lemon peel: to taste- to be grated
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 30 min. of dough resting

instructions:
Similar to spaghetti but thicker, pici are a type of fresh pasta typical of Tuscany that usually calls for traditional sauces like aglione , breadcrumbs , or a reinterpretation of cacio e pepe . Today we propose pici with cherry tomatoes and lemon-scented ricotta! The fresh basil tomato sauce flavored with garlic and anchovies meets the freshness of lemon zest and ricotta, which will become even softer and creamier with just a few steps. A mix of Mediterranean flavors that perfectly matches the rustic and porous texture of pici. Try pici with cherry tomatoes and lemon-scented ricotta, a simple and delicious recipe that highlights one of the many must-try specialties of our Peninsula!
Don't miss this tasty variant: pici with mushroom and walnut ragù !
To make pici with cherry tomatoes and lemon-scented ricotta, first prepare the fresh pasta: place the flour into a mound on a work surface and gradually pour the oil and lukewarm water into the center while mixing with your hands .
Work the mixture until you obtain a rather firm, smooth, and homogeneous dough . Form a ball , cover it with an overturned bowl and let it rest at room temperature for 30 minutes. In the meantime, wash and cut the cherry tomatoes in half .
Proceed with the preparation of the sauce: heat the oil in a pan with the anchovy fillets , then add the grated garlic and the tomato paste . Sauté for a couple of minutes.
At this point, add the cherry tomatoes and sauté over high heat for about 5 minutes, then lightly salt and add the bunch of basil . Cover with the lid and cook over low heat for 15 minutes. When the sauce has thickened, turn off the heat and remove the basil.
To make the whipped ricotta, put the ricotta in a container, season with salt, pepper, and the grated zest of the lemon . Gradually add the oil while blending with an immersion blender, moving from bottom to top .
After the resting time of the dough, roll it out with a rolling pin to a thickness of 3/8 inch , then cut strips 1/4 inch wide . Work each strip with your fingertips to stretch it and form a cord .
Once the pici are ready , bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook them for about 3 minutes . Drain the pici into a bowl and add the cherry tomato sauce , alternating the pasta with the sauce. Mix well to combine everything.
Finish each plate with a spoonful of whipped ricotta , some grated lemon zest , a grind of pepper, and a few basil leaves. Your pici with cherry tomatoes and lemon-scented ricotta are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the pici with cherry tomatoes and lemon-scented ricotta immediately.
If you wish to freeze the pici, first harden them in the freezer laid out on a floured tray, then transfer them to bags being careful not to break them.
If you prefer, you can replace the whipped ricotta with grated salted ricotta or burrata torn by hand.

