name:
Coconut Milk Ice Cream Without an Ice Cream Maker
ingredients:
Coconut milk: 1.7cups(400 g)- (18% fat)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Coconut milk: 1.7cups(400 g)- (18% fat content)
Pistachios: ½cup(80 g)
Dark chocolate: 3oz(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 2 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 12 hours of firming in the freezer

instructions:
Summer brings the desire for popsicles and ice cream: fresh, tasty, and colorful, they are the favorite snacks to recharge during the hottest days. Chocolate Ice Cream , Cream Ice Cream , and Lemon Ice Cream ... beside these classic flavors, forever loved, we wanted to experiment with new tastes by replacing cow's milk with coconut milk to also accommodate the needs of those who are lactose intolerant or have chosen a vegan lifestyle. The coconut ice cream without an ice cream maker won us over at the first taste, and we didn't stop there! With the addition of pistachios and chocolate, we made two more delicious variations that will allow you to serve a tasty trio of coconut milk ice creams, each more delicious than the last. Also, check out our Coconut Milk Cream !
To make the coconut ice cream without an ice cream maker, first prepare the syrup: pour the water into a saucepan, add the sugar (1-2), and bring to a boil. Let the syrup simmer for about 2 minutes. Now pour the coconut milk into the mixer cup .
Add the syrup , blend with an immersion mixer , and pour the mixture into ice cube molds . Place them in the freezer and let them firm up for at least one night, about 10 hours.
After the cooling time, transfer the cubes to the mixer (7-8) and blend them to obtain a creamy mixture .
Pour the obtained mixture into a container (10-11), cover with plastic wrap , and place back in the freezer for another 2 hours. After this time, the coconut ice cream will be ready to be enjoyed.
To make the pistachio flavor variation, proceed with the recipe until step 6 following the dosages indicated in the related ingredient sheet, then add 2.8 oz of peeled whole pistachios to the mixer along with the ice cream cubes and blend everything until a creamy mixture is obtained . Transfer the ice cream to a bowl , cover with plastic wrap, and place in the freezer to firm up for 2-3 hours.
To make the chocolate version, follow all the steps until step 6 following the dosages indicated in the related ingredient sheet, then chop the dark chocolate and melt it in a double boiler or in the microwave. Pour the melted chocolate into the mixer along with the ice cream cubes and blend everything until a creamy mixture is obtained . Transfer the ice cream to a bowl , cover with plastic wrap, and place in the freezer to firm up for 2-3 hours.
The coconut ice cream can be stored in the freezer for a week.
Serve your coconut ice cream with red fruits, chocolate flakes, honey, muesli, or accompany it with a slice of chocolate cake .

