name:
Spaghetti with Tomato and Caramelized Onions
ingredients:
Spaghetti Quadrati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Piccadilly tomatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Tomato paste: 1spoonful
Red onions: 2- large
Sugar: 1spoonful
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Balsamic vinegar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Stracciatella cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Spaghetti with tomato , a timeless classic that everyone loves, the symbol of Italian pasta. In this recipe, a special version: spaghetti with tomato and caramelized onions, a first course with guaranteed success, perfect to prepare in summer. The ingredients make the difference for the excellent success of this dish: we recommend choosing ripe piccadilly tomatoes, the onions should be red, preferably Tropea onions because they are sweeter and more digestible. For this pasta, we chose square spaghetti, but you can choose the shape you love most... finishing cooking directly in the sauce will make it creamy and super tasty! And finally, a touch that everyone always likes, plenty of stracciatella that will give a fresh note, which goes perfectly with the caramelized onions and lots of basil leaves for a unique scent, iconic of this season! Here are other recipes with spaghetti not to be missed:
Discover more delicious Spaghetti recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare spaghetti with tomato and caramelized onions, start with the latter. Peel the onions, cut them first in half and then into very thin slices, without removing the base of the onion so they do not separate . In a large pan, pour a drizzle of oil and add the onions .
Now add the salt and cook them for about 20 minutes on very low heat , stirring them often. In the meantime, prepare the sauce: wash the tomatoes well and cut them in half .
Once you have cut them all , prepare the sauté. In a large pan, pour a drizzle of oil, 2 previously crushed garlic cloves, and the tomato paste . As soon as the garlic is well golden, remove it .
Now add the tomatoes . Stir and cook on high heat for 5 minutes. Add a pinch of salt and crush them with a wooden spoon ; in this way, they will release all their juice. Cover with a lid , lower the heat, and cook for another 15 minutes.
As soon as the onions are well softened, add the sugar . Deglaze with balsamic vinegar and cook for another 15 minutes, until they are well caramelized, soft, similar to a jam .
At this point, the sauce will also be ready: the tomatoes should be very juicy . Cook the spaghetti in plenty of boiling salted water . Keeping aside the cooking water, drain the pasta very al dente, about 4 minutes before, and transfer it to the sauce. Finish cooking by adding the reserved cooking water.
When the pasta is cooked to the right point, turn off the heat, add a drizzle of oil , and toss it well. Create a nest of spaghetti on each plate, add some stracciatella on top, the caramelized onions , a drizzle of oil, and finish with basil leaves .
We recommend serving the spaghetti with tomato and caramelized onions as soon as it's ready.
If you prefer, you can also slice the onions with a mandoline, this way it will be easier to get a very thin thickness.

