name:
Tuscan Panzanella
ingredients:
Stale bread: 9oz(250 g)
Piccadilly tomatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (or salad tomatoes)
Cucumbers: 2
Red onions: 1
Basil: 15leaves
Water: 0.6cup(150 g)
White wine vinegar: 3spoonfuls- about
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + soaking time for the bread (15 min.)

instructions:
One of the quintessential summer dishes of our tradition is undoubtedly Tuscan panzanella, the typical salad made of stale bread, tomatoes, cucumbers, and onion, characterized by the strong flavor of vinegar. Easy and quick to assemble because it requires no cooking, it can stimulate the appetite even on the hottest days! Like all recovery dishes, there are many variations of this recipe, and here we show you how it is prepared at the Fonte Giusta trattoria in Siena. A classic version of Tuscan panzanella that will win you over with its tasty simplicity!
Also, check out these tasty variants of panzanella :
To prepare Tuscan panzanella, first slice the stale bread and place it in a baking dish, then pour the water and vinegar . Let it rest for 15 minutes, turning it often to soak it evenly.
In the meantime, prepare the rest of the ingredients: peel the cucumbers and slice them thinly or dice , then wash the cherry tomatoes and halve them . Finally, peel the onion and slice it thinly .
After the soaking time, squeeze the bread well to remove excess water and transfer it to a bowl, then add the cucumbers and cherry tomatoes .
Add the onion and basil leaves . Mix, salt and pepper.
Finally, season with the oil and mix again . Your Tuscan panzanella is ready to be enjoyed !
Panzanella can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days, preferably without the tomatoes.
Instead of cherry tomatoes, you can use regular tomatoes.
The amount of water may vary depending on the bread used.
" Fonte Giusta " is a trattoria located in the historic heart of Siena, where the choice of raw materials and authenticity are what guests, Italians and foreigners alike, can still count on. Homemade bread, hand-rolled fresh pasta, sauces, and traditional Sienese recipes, as well as dishes that change according to the season, make Fonte Giusta "a refuge for romantics at the table," as chef Giuseppe Chiarelli, also known as Chef Pino, likes to call it.

