name:
No-Bake Cookie Cake
ingredients:
Chocolate cookies: 8.8oz(250 g)
Dark chocolate: 4.6oz(130 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Cream cheese: 3.3cups(750 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Chocolate cookies: 3.5oz(100 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + 4 hours of cooling

instructions:
Cold cakes are perfect to prepare when it's too hot to turn on the oven. And for this summer season, we suggest you try our no-bake cookie cake, a kind of cold cheesecake that's really delicious! Instead of the regular dry cookies, those also used in the classic New York cheesecake , we used cocoa cookies which will make the base much tastier. There's another surprise: melted dark chocolate, both on top and bottom! A true delight interspersed with a tall and tasty layer of cream: cream cheese and fresh cream! This no-bake cookie cake is really creamy, velvety, and enveloping, and with the addition of cookies in the filling, it will be a delightful summer snack. The no-bake cookie cake is perfect for all occasions and to be enjoyed at any moment: you can serve it even for a summer birthday or simply as a dessert for a dinner with friends. Here are other desserts we recommend you try:
To prepare the no-bake cookie cake, first prepare the base. Pour the cocoa cookies into a mixer and blend until you get a powder . Transfer it to a bowl and set aside.
Finely chop the chocolate and melt it in a double boiler or microwave. Also, melt the butter and pour it into the melted chocolate . Mix well with a spatula to make it uniform .
Pour the chocolate with the butter onto the blended cookies and mix until you get a homogeneous mixture. Now take an 8-inch pastry ring, place it on a baking tray lined with parchment paper, and put a strip of acetate inside. Pour the cookie mixture inside and gently press it with the back of a spoon .
When you have covered the base well , transfer it to the fridge. Now soak the gelatin sheets in cold water . Meanwhile, in a bowl, pour the cream cheese and the vanilla extract .
Working with low-speed electric whisks, also add the powdered sugar and half of the cream . Continue working until you get a smooth and airy cream .
Heat the other half of cream in a small pot . Then drain the gelatin, pour it into the hot cream and stir until it is dissolved . Let it cool a moment and then pour it into the cheese mixture .
Mix again and when it is well absorbed, add the cookies previously crumbled by hand . Mix again , then transfer the mixture inside the mold with the cocoa cookie base . Smooth the surface well and place it in the fridge for at least 4 hours.
After this time, melt the dark chocolate that will be used for the final decoration. Unmold the cake , remove the acetate paper, and place it on a serving plate. Pour the chocolate in the center of the cake, forming a disk, without covering it entirely . Transfer again to the fridge until the chocolate has solidified. Then it will be ready to serve .
The no-bake cookie cake can be stored for 3-4 days in the fridge, well covered.
If you prefer the chocolate to remain creamy and not crunchy, pour it on the cake just before serving it. You can use dry cookies instead of cocoa ones, always in the same quantity.
You can decorate with chocolate curls, or add chocolate chips to the cream before pouring it into the mold.

