name:
Stuffed Eggplants Calabrian Style
ingredients:
Eggplant: 4- long black
Coarse salt: to taste
Bread: 3.5oz(100 g)- (only crumb)
Pecorino cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Basil: 5leaves
Mint: 5leaves
Tomato purée: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Basil: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: 1.1cups(250 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus 3 hours to drain the eggplants

instructions:
Melanzane 'mbuttunate (stuffed eggplants) are a typical recipe from Southern Italy, one of the most delicious eggplant recipes, along with gratinated and baked ones. Today we present the Calabrese version of melanzane 'mbuttunate, but there are other variants, with some differences, especially in Sicily and Cilento. The term 'mbuttunate refers to the cuts made on the eggplants, traditionally 5-6, and it means "buttoned." Stuffed with a mixture of bread and cheese, they are truly delicious stuffed eggplants . The double cooking method makes them special: first fried, then simmered in the sauce, the eggplants become soft inside and extremely tasty! Follow our steps and prepare this typical Calabrese recipe to delight your guests! Here are other stuffed vegetables not to miss:
To prepare the s tuffed eggplants Calabrian style , first wash the eggplants and remove the stem . Make lengthwise cuts on the eggplants , being careful not to cut through the base. 5-6 cuts will suffice for eggplants weighing about 7 oz (200g) each. Insert a pinch of coarse salt into the cuts .
Leave to drain on a rack with a container underneath for about 2-3 hours . Meanwhile, prepare the filling. Dice the bread crumbs and grate the Caciocavallo , Pecorino, and Parmigiano Reggiano.
Blend the bread crumbs in a mixer and transfer to a bowl. Add the cheeses , mint leaves, and basil leaves .
Mix well . Once the eggplants have released the liquid, rinse them well under water to remove the salt . Dry them thoroughly with kitchen paper .
Now, fill the cuts in the eggplants . In a very large pan (they should all fit), pour the sunflower oil, heat for a minute, then carefully place the eggplants in without burning yourself .
Cook over medium heat , turning often for about 10 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the sauce. In another large pan, pour the oil and add a whole peeled clove of garlic. Let it infuse. Now pour in the tomato sauce .
Season with salt, add the basil leaves , and let cook for about 10 minutes. After 10 minutes, drain the eggplants and transfer them to paper towels .
Transfer the eggplants into the sauce . Cook for about 25-30 minutes, turning gently at least 2-3 times. Once cooked , serve them hot .
Stuffed eggplants Calabrian style can be stored in the fridge for up to 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of vegetable oil, you can also use extra virgin olive oil or a mix of both.
If you don't like garlic, you can prepare the sauce with onion.
It's preferable to use small-sized long purple eggplants, but larger or oval ones can also be used. Just check the cooking times to ensure they soften while frying and cook well in the sauce.

