name:
Paccheri with Cherry Tomatoes and Cod
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Salted cod fillet: 8.8oz(250 g)- already desalted
Datterino tomatoes: 3cups(500 g)
Tomato paste: 1spoonful
Taggiasca olives: 1.75oz(50 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Parsley: 1bunch
Basil: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
A perfect pasta format for hearty or baked sauces, stuffed: the pacchero is loved with all condiments! We challenge you to resist this first course of paccheri with cherry tomatoes and cod! Cod, as many of you know, is just salted preserved codfish. Once desalted, the fillets are tender but meaty, perfect for enriching this sauce made with fresh cherry tomatoes. Fresh basil and parsley leaves along with oregano will give a unique and Mediterranean taste, together with Taggiasca olives. Discover with us this delicious dish, easy and quick to prepare, perfect for many occasions!
Discover other recipes perfect for special lunches:
and cod-based dishes:
To prepare paccheri with cherry tomatoes and cod, first wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half lengthwise . In a pan, pour a swirl of oil and the 2 cloves of garlic in their skins . Let them brown and then add the cherry tomatoes .
Sauté them for about 15 minutes and in the meantime chop the parsley . Add the cod fillet to the pan .
Remove the garlic , add the Taggiasca olives and the tomato paste .
Add the oregano , a pinch of salt , and the basil leaves .
Also add the chopped parsley and after about 15 minutes, crush the cod with a wooden spoon to crumble it. Cook the paccheri in plenty of salted boiling water .
Set aside the cooking water, drain the paccheri al dente, and transfer them directly into the sauce . Add a ladle of the cooking water and mix, adding a drizzle of oil .
Also pour in some chopped parsley and toss the pasta well. Plate, adding more chopped parsley and serve your paccheri with cod .
We recommend consuming the paccheri immediately. Alternatively, they can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
If you prefer, you can add desalted capers to the sauce or a chili pepper for a spicy touch! We recommend using a stainless steel pan to quickly caramelize the sugars in the cherry tomatoes.

