name:
Coffee Cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 5.8oz(165 g)- (about 3 medium)
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: ½cup(110 g)
Type 00 flour: 3.5oz(100 g)
Nut flour: 0.3cup(40 g)
Potato starch: 2tbsp(30 g)
Powdered sugar: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Water: 2tsp(10 g)
Instant coffee: 1tsp(5 g)
Baking powder: 1 ¼tsp(6 g)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.3cups(300 g)- cold
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Cornstarch: 5 ½tbsp(40 g)
Egg yolks: 4
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Coffee beans: to taste- toasted

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the cooling times for the base, the cream, and the finished cake

instructions:
Birthday coming up? If the celebrant is a coffee lover, skip the usual chocolate cakes or grandma's cake for once and surprise them with a magnificent coffee cake! Unlike its Coffee Water Cake variant, this is a particularly scenic dessert made with a fragrant hazelnut dough and a soft coffee cream enriched with whipped cream. If the lengthy preparation intimidates you, don't worry because you can make both the base and filling the day before. This way, you will have plenty of time to get creative with the decorations and make your coffee cake even more delicious and irresistible!
To make the coffee cake, first, prepare the dough for the base: separate the yolks from the whites, then beat the whites to stiff peaks with an electric mixer gradually adding the powdered sugar . Set the whipped whites aside for now and place the softened butter and granulated sugar in another bowl .
Beat the butter and sugar with the mixer for a few minutes, then add one yolk at a time . Dissolve the instant coffee in water and pour it into the mixture . Mix with the beaters, then add the all-purpose flour .
While keeping the mixer running, also add the baking powder , potato starch , and hazelnut flour .
Once the dry ingredients are well absorbed , fold in the whipped egg whites: first, add a small portion to temper the mixture , then add the rest, gently mixing from bottom to top with a spatula .
Pour the obtained mixture into a 7-inch diameter mold lined with parchment paper (or greased and floured) , level the surface with the back of a spoon, and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 45 minutes . Check the doneness with a toothpick, then remove from the oven and let the cake cool in the mold .
In the meantime, prepare the coffee cream: pour the yolks and sugar into a saucepan and mix with a hand whisk or spatula , then add the cornstarch and mix well.
Meanwhile, pour the milk and instant coffee into another saucepan and bring it to a boil, stirring to dissolve . Pour the hot milk into the yolk mixture, first a small portion, then the rest .
Put the saucepan back on the stove and thicken while stirring continuously . When the cream is ready, transfer it to a bowl , cover with plastic wrap in contact , and let it cool in the refrigerator until ready to use .
At this point, soak the gelatin sheets in cold water . Meanwhile, pour most of the cream into a bowl and whip it with an electric mixer: it should be shiny but not too stiff . Heat the rest of the cream in a saucepan: once it reaches a boil, turn off the heat and add the well-squeezed gelatin sheets . Stir to dissolve them evenly.
Retrieve the now cold cream and revive it with a whisk, then gently fold in the whipped cream , mixing from bottom to top with a spatula. Finally, pour the cream and gelatin mixture into the cream and mix well to obtain a soft and smooth consistency . Refrigerate the cream while you cut the cake base: first, remove the top with a long serrated knife, then divide it horizontally into 2 parts .
Place the base on a serving plate and fill with half of the cream using a piping bag with a half inch plain tip , then cover with the second cake layer and smooth the edges with a spatula .
Fill the surface with the remaining cream using a piping bag with a Saint Honoré tip this time . Finally, garnish with coffee beans . Refrigerate the coffee cake for a couple of hours before serving !
The coffee cake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
The base and cream can be prepared the day before: store the base at room temperature under a cake dome and the cream in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap in contact.
For an even more delicious version, you can enrich the coffee cream with chocolate chips, adding them just before the cooling phase!
If desired, you can lightly brush the base with cognac, brandy, or dark rum.
If you prefer, you can replace instant coffee with espresso or vice versa: note that 2 tsp of instant coffee is equivalent to 1 1/2 tbsp of espresso.

