name:
Apple muffins in air fryer
ingredients:
Golden delicious apples: 0.6lb(260 g)
Natural plain yogurt: ½cup(125 g)- at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Sugar: 5 ½tbsp(70 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Eggs: 2.1oz(60 g)- (about 1 large)
Baking powder: 1.9tsp(8 g)
Vanilla bean: 1- (the seeds)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 18 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the apple muffins in the air fryer, first melt the butter in a saucepan, then let it cool slightly. Place the egg in a bowl along with the sugar and start working with the electric beaters until you get a light and frothy mixture . Pour in the yogurt and continue mixing.
Add the vanilla bean seeds and the melted butter . Incorporate everything with the beaters, while also adding a pinch of salt .
Sift the flour and baking powder into a separate bowl , then add the dry ingredients to the mixture one tablespoon at a time, keeping the beaters running . You should obtain a homogeneous mixture .
Now peel the apple and cut it into thin slices , then cut the slices in half . Add the apples to the mixture .
Mix with a spatula to incorporate them evenly . At this point, line 8 aluminum molds with a capacity of 100 ml with paper muffin cups and fill them three-quarters full with the batter .
Place the molds in the air fryer (we used a fryer with a 6-liter capacity) and cook at 340°F for 12 minutes, then lower the temperature to 320°F and continue cooking for another 4 minutes : we cooked 4 muffins at a time in an air fryer with a 4.2-liter capacity. Your apple muffins in the air fryer are ready to be enjoyed !
Apple muffins in the air fryer can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze the muffins after cooking and cooling them.
You can flavor the batter with lemon zest, cinnamon, or ginger instead of vanilla.
If you prefer, you can cut the apples into cubes!
The muffins may rise differently depending on how they are positioned inside the air fryer, so we recommend checking halfway through cooking to see if you need to rotate the muffin cups.

