name:
Tuscan Cacciucco
ingredients:
Octopus: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Scyllarus arctus: 0.77lb(350 g)- (mantis shrimp)
Cuttlefish: 9.2oz(260 g)- cleaned
Monkfish: 1.1lbs(500 g)- cleaned
Gurnard: 0.6lb(250 g)- cleaned
Red mullet: 7.1oz(200 g)- cleaned
Stargazer: 7.1oz(200 g)- cleaned
Scorpionfish: 1.8lbs(800 g)- whole
Weever: 7.1oz(200 g)- cleaned
Mussels: 1.2lbs(550 g)
Scampi: 1lb(450 g)- whole
Shrimps: 7.1oz(200 g)- whole
Baby octopus: 0.7lb(300 g)- cleaned
Basil: to taste
White wine: 1glass
Tomato paste: 1tsp
Tomato purée: 2.1cups(500 g)
Water: 1.3cups(300 g)
Sage: to taste
Tuscan bread: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Garlic: 3cloves

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 1 h 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very high

instructions:
With the Tuscan cacciucco recipe, we bring to the table a dish inspired by regional cuisine, a rich and flavorful fish soup that encapsulates all the flavors of the sea. You will find here a varied mix of fish, from octopus to gurnard, without missing out on the delicate taste of scampi and shrimp. It requires time and dedication: cleaning and filleting reserved for expert hands, followed by a long cooking process that will allow all the aromas and scents of this ancient preparation to be released. The care taken in making this Cacciucco alla Livornese will be rewarded with a dish of timeless genuine flavors, keeping alive a culinary tradition that transcends time. Come and discover our version of this appetizing recipe!
Don't miss out on other delicious fish soups:
To prepare the cacciucco, start by cleaning the fish. Rinse the octopus, divide the tentacles from the head , then remove the eyes and beak. Cut the tentacles into pieces . Slice the rest of the body into strips .
Gut and fillet the scorpionfish , then cut the meat into pieces .
Remove the skin from the monkfish tail , then cut it into coarse pieces .

Shrimp and scampi should remain whole, just be sure to remove the intestinal vein by cutting along the back . Now move on to the gurnard: remove the head .
After gutting it, fillet it and cut it into pieces . Do the same with the weever fish .

Fillet and cut the fillets into pieces . Same procedure for the stargazer .

Once filleted, cut it into pieces . Now deal with the cuttlefish: after separating the tentacles from the body, remove the beak and cut them into rings .


In a pot, pour a drizzle of oil, add garlic, chili pepper, and sage . Sauté for a few moments , then add the octopus and baby octopus . Cover with a lid and cook for about 20 minutes.
Add the sliced cuttlefish , deglaze with white wine , and continue cooking for another 20 minutes. Once everything is well sautéed, pour in the tomato puree , tomato paste, and water. Cook for 1 hour on low heat.
At this point, add the monkfish and scorpionfish and continue cooking for about 5 minutes. Then add the remaining fish: mullets, gurnards, stargazer, and weever fish . Season with basil and cook for another 2-3 minutes.
Finish with the shellfish: mantis shrimp, scampi , mussels , and shrimp. Cook for a few minutes , once the mussels have opened, the cacciucco is ready.
Slice the bread and toast it on a griddle . Serve the Tuscan cacciucco with the toasted bread slices .
Consume the cacciucco immediately. We do not recommend freezing.
Do not throw away the fish cleaning leftovers but use them to make a tasty fish stock ! Alternatively, you can use canned tomatoes instead of tomato puree.

