name:
Pasta with Zucchini Pesto, Ricotta, and Sun-Dried Tomatoes
ingredients:
Sedanini Rigati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 4 ¼tbsp(60 g)
Salted ricotta cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Zucchini: 2cups(200 g)
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1oz(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(125 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Basil: 0.4oz(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Tempting, fresh, and genuine: this is how we can define this tasty pasta with zucchini pesto, ricotta, and sun-dried tomatoes, an enticing summer first course that will add a special touch to your menus. To deliciously dress the pasta, we enriched the simple zucchini pesto with sun-dried tomatoes and salted ricotta, achieving an attractive mix of Mediterranean flavors that will color the dish with taste. You'll be surprised to find out how easy it is to bring to your table such a delicious and flavorful pasta that will make a great impression!
If you love zucchini pesto, here are many other tasty pairing ideas:
To make pasta with zucchini pesto, ricotta, and sun-dried tomatoes, start by preparing the pesto: wash the zucchini, remove the ends and use a large-hole grater to shred them . Then place them in the mixer along with the pine nuts .
Add the previously washed basil leaves . Add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano and Pecorino .
Finally, add the salt and the olive oil . Then start the mixer and blend for a few minutes until you get a creamy consistency . Place a pot of water on the stove and add salt once it boils.
Meanwhile, dice the sun-dried tomatoes into approximately 1/2 inch cubes, having previously drained them from the oil . At this point, cook the pasta in boiling salted water for the time indicated on the package . When the pasta is ready, drain it directly into a pan .

Add the zucchini pesto , a splash of cooking water to help mix everything , and the sun-dried tomatoes . Stir until the pesto has well-coated each piece of pasta.
Finally, plate and season with the grated salted ricotta . The pasta with zucchini pesto, ricotta, and sun-dried tomatoes is ready to be served .
We recommend immediate consumption of the pasta. The zucchini pesto can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with a layer of oil, for 2 days. Alternatively, you can prepare convenient single servings to freeze and use as needed.
This dish is rich in very savory ingredients, so be moderate in using salt.

