name:
No-Bake Peach Cheesecake Lactose-Free and Gluten-Free
ingredients:
Gluten free dry cookies: 7.1oz(200 g)
Soy butter: 5 ¼tbsp(75 g)
Lactose-free Spreadable Fresh cheese: 2.3lbs(525 g)
Lactose free fresh cream: 1cup(250 g)
Fructose: 0.7cup(160 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
Nectarines: 1cup(200 g)
Strawberries: ½cup(60 g)
Currants: 2tbsp(30 g)
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note 6 hours of setting in the fridge and 20 minutes for decoration

instructions:
From now on, no one will have to give up a delicious slice of cheesecake , and thanks to this recipe, even those intolerant to lactose and gluten can enjoy this fabulous creamy cheese dessert! We have created a lactose-free and gluten-free peach cheesecake, a fresh dessert that does not require baking and is suitable for everyone. For the base, we chose gluten-free cookies, and for the cream, we used lactose-free cream cheese and fresh cream. We present a summer version decorated with lots of fresh, colorful, and inviting fruit, but you can prepare a thousand different versions of this typical American dessert: from the strawberry cheesecake to the Light cheesecake ! Starting from this neutral base, you can unleash your creativity according to your tastes and imagination! And we are sure that, slice after slice, this cheesecake will disappear in no time from your tables!
To prepare the lactose-free and gluten-free no-bake peach cheesecake, start with the cookie base. Butter an 8.5-inch springform pan and line it with parchment paper both at the base and on the sides. Place the gluten-free cookies in a mixer and blend them until you get a sandy texture . Transfer it to a bowl, then melt the butter and pour it over the cookie crumbs .
Mix with a spoon and pour everything into the bottom of the pan , leveling it well with the back of a spoon to cover the entire surface evenly . Let the base set in the fridge for about 30 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the cream: soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for about 10 minutes . Meanwhile, whip 7 oz of lactose-free cream with a stand mixer with a whisk attachment or an electric hand mixer . In a separate bowl, add the lactose-free cream cheese and the fructose .
Blend the mixture with an electric mixer until you get a homogeneous cream . Heat the remaining cream in a saucepan and dissolve the well-wrung gelatin in it, off the heat, stirring with a whisk . Let the cream with the gelatin cool slightly and add it, little by little, to the cream cheese mixture , continuing to stir. The cream and the dissolved gelatin should be at the same temperature to avoid thermal shock and the formation of lumps. Fold in the previously whipped cream, mixing with a spatula in an upward motion ; pour the obtained cream over the cookie base .
Level it well with a small spatula until you get a smooth and even surface ; cover the pan with plastic wrap and let the cheesecake set in the fridge for about 6 hours .
When it's time to decorate, wash and slice the nectarines very thinly without peeling them . Squeeze the lemon juice and pour it over the peaches to prevent them from oxidizing.
Take the cheesecake out of the fridge and gently remove the springform ring and the parchment paper from the sides . Then, with the help of a flat spatula , carefully lift it from the pan and transfer it to a cake stand or a plate. Decorate it with the peach slices arranged in a circle, starting from the outer edge .
Create a complete circle with the peaches , then slice the strawberries and arrange them in a second, smaller circle closer to the center .
Wash and dry the red currants and finish the decoration with them in the center of the cake , adding some mint leaves . Slice and serve the cake well-chilled .
Wash and dry the red currants, and use them to complete the decoration in the center of the cake , adding a few mint leaves as well . Slice and serve the cake well chilled .
You can store the cheesecake in the fridge for 2-3 days. If fresh ingredients were used, it can be frozen.
For gluten-free recipes, we recommend purchasing only products that have the crossed-out wheat ear symbol on the package, certified gluten-free, and recommended by local Celiac Association.

