name:
Mint and Chocolate Chip Ice Cream
ingredients:
Mint: 3.3tbsp(50 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(240 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(125 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 3 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + 1 hour of infusion, + 30 min in the ice cream maker

instructions:
When the heat becomes unbearable, any excuse is good to indulge in summer treats, and what could be better than a refreshing and delicious ice cream break? If you have already tried making the more classic flavors, such as strawberry and lemon ice cream, why not try a unique and irresistible flavor? After experimenting with Golden milk ice cream , exotic and delicious, we now present mint and chocolate ice cream: a fantastic flavor combination where fresh mint meets the intense taste of dark chocolate. This ice cream will surely remind you of after-eight chocolates, where dark chocolate encloses a creamy mint heart. A sweet remedy for the hot summer days, perfect to beautifully end a meal, mint and chocolate ice cream is also ideal for a sweet afternoon snack: irresistible!
To prepare mint and chocolate chip ice cream, first pour the milk into a saucepan , heat it while adding the fresh cream , and add the sugar .
Dissolve the sugar with the help of a whisk and, once completely dissolved, wash the mint leaves, pat them dry with a kitchen towel, then add them to the saucepan . Stir and let it heat for about 3-4 minutes, until the sugar is dissolved, then turn off the heat and let it infuse for at least an hour. After the infusion time, strain the cream and milk using a strainer .
Take about half of the mint leaves, then transfer them to the blender along with the milk and cream (if you want a stronger mint flavor, you can blend all the leaves), blend everything . Then strain the mixture with a muslin cloth (cheesecloth) into a bowl using a strainer .
Squeeze well to ensure you completely filter the mixture, pour everything into the ice cream maker and run it for 30 minutes .
Once the 30 minutes are up, take the dark chocolate and chop it coarsely with a knife . Then add it to the ice cream maker , run it for a few minutes and your mint and chocolate ice cream will be ready. If you don't have an ice cream maker, put the liquid mixture at room temperature in the freezer in a basin, remembering to stir it every half hour until you get the perfect consistency. Once the ice cream maker stops, transfer the ice cream to a wide and shallow container, preferably made of glass or steel, and store it in the freezer for at least 2-3 hours before serving .
Store the mint and chocolate chip ice cream covered in the freezer for up to one week.
Dear mint lovers, if you want your ice cream to have an intense mint flavor, you can blend all the leaves together! For a more intense aroma, you can leave them to infuse in the milk and cream overnight in the refrigerator.

