name:
Chicken Caesar Salad on Baby Lettuce
ingredients:
Lettuce: 1.8oz(50 g)- baby (16 leaves)
Smoked pancetta: 2.8oz(80 g)- (thinly sliced)
Chicken breast: 7oz(200 g)
Stale bread: 2.8oz(80 g)- (frozen)
Oregano: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Apple cider vinegar: 2tsp(10 g)
Anchovies in oil: 2
Mustard: 1tsp- whole
Vegetable oil: 5tbsp(70 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- (to grate)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you think all salads are good only for "herbivores" and models perpetually on a diet, this version will completely change your mind! Imagine a little leaf of lettuce serving as a bed for a super rock sauce, flavorful chicken strips, and a shower of golden bread cubes and crispy bacon... the Chicken Caesar Salad on baby lettuce we present today is exactly that! Gather your friends, bring them around the kitchen counter, refresh them with a beer, and mercilessly enlist their help to prepare the Caesar salad , the famous cold summer dish made in the U.S.A. in a single-serving version, perfect for devouring while waiting for dinner. The aperitif has never been so enjoyable. And for once, those adorable slackers of your guests will make themselves useful!
To prepare the chicken Caesar salad on baby lettuce, start by handling the sauce. Place the egg yolks in the mixer cup and add the cider vinegar , grainy mustard , pepper, and salt .
Start blending and meanwhile, add the seed oil in a thin stream . When the sauce reaches a thick and creamy consistency , add the anchovies drained of their preserving oil .
and the grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese . Blend again, then place the sauce in a bowl and move on to the other ingredients of your Caesar salad. Cut the bacon into slices .
In a pan, heat the oil, then add the bacon and sauté for 2-3 minutes until it becomes crispy. Remove it from the heat and place it to dry on a plate with a sheet of paper towel . Move on to the chicken: cut it into strips .
And, without adding more oil, add them to the pan where you sautéed the bacon . Brown it for a few minutes , then remove it from the pan and set it aside in a baking dish .
Now cut the bread into cubes (frozen bread is easier to cut). Add a drizzle of oil to the same pan, and pour in the bread cubes . Season them with pepper, salt .
and flavor with dried oregano and brown them until they’re crispy. Remove them from the heat and set them aside in a bowl as well . Now move on to assembling your finger foods: wash and leaf the baby lettuce , selecting the 16 most capacious leaves to use as little boats.
Fill each leaf with a generous amount of sauce , a few chicken strips , a few golden bread cubes .
Finally, add the crispy bacon and a final drizzle of sauce . Continue like this until all the ingredients are used up: your chicken Caesar salad on baby lettuce is ready to be enjoyed !
The Chicken Caesar Salad on baby lettuce should be consumed immediately. You can store cooked chicken and bacon, covered in the fridge, for 1 day. The golden bread croutons can be kept in a well-sealed bag for up to 10 days.

