name:
Mango and Pineapple Rice Salad
ingredients:
Basmati rice: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Mango: 1cup(250 g)- (pulp)
Pineapple: 1 ½cup(200 g)- baby (pulp)
Peas: 1cup(150 g)
Red onions: 1.4oz(40 g)
Feta cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
Chives: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Mint: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
Palm trees, white beaches, and a blue sea that blends with the sky! Who has never dreamed of the Tropics? Those breathtaking scenes of the world's most famous seaside resorts where you can escape for a completely relaxing vacation! Today, we want to transport you to one of these earthly paradises! Just close your eyes and savor a summer dish with a tropical flavor: mango and pineapple rice salad! A vegetarian reinterpretation of the classic summer dish along with a colorful and genuine dice of exotic fruits, making the Caribbean dream right on your plate! After a few hours in the refrigerator, this mango and pineapple rice salad will be perfectly chilled, and you can combat the high summer temperatures by enjoying a rich, decidedly fresh dish!
To prepare the mango and pineapple rice salad, start by cooking the rice. Pour it into plenty of salted boiling water and cook it according to the package instructions . Then drain it and let it cool at room temperature .
Meanwhile, take care of the fruit. Peel the mango , then cut it into strips and finally into cubes of about 1/2 inch . Collect and set aside in a container .
Move on to cleaning the pineapple : remove both ends of the pineapple and then peel and remove any residues . Cut it in half lengthwise to get two halves , and continue cutting lengthwise again until you get 8 parts in total
Remove the central part , which is harder, and then place the slices on the cutting board. This way, you will be able to obtain small triangles by cutting transversely ; pour the triangles into a container as well .
Clean the red onion and cut it into slices about 1/2 inch thick . Finally, cut the thick slices into halves or thirds .
In a skillet, pour some extra virgin olive oil along with the onions and let them sizzle for a few moments. Then add the peas and a few tablespoons of water to extend the cooking time . It will take about ten minutes, just enough time to tenderize them a bit. Cooking the onion will soften the flavor; if you prefer a stronger taste, do not cook it. If you are using frozen peas, let them thaw in hot water for about ten minutes before cooking.
As soon as the rice and peas are well chilled, combine them . Then add the mango cubes and the pineapple triangles ,
Cut some chives with scissors . Finally, cut the feta into cubes and add them to the rice salad along with a pinch of ground black pepper .
Mix all the ingredients well . If you want an original way to serve it, spoon the rice salad into glass jars; you will get 6 jars using 12-14 oz capacity ones . Finally, place them in the refrigerator, garnishing each jar with some fresh mint . After a few hours in the refrigerator, your mango and pineapple rice salad will be ready to enjoy!
You can store the mango and pineapple rice salad for up to 2 days, making sure to cover it well with plastic wrap and leave it in a glass container.

