name:
Lemon Granita
ingredients:
Water: 1.4cups(335 g)
Sugar: ½cup(90 g)
Lemon juice: 5tbsp(75 g)- (of about 2 lemons)
Lemon peel: 2

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time (60 minutes)

instructions:
When summer arrives, there's nothing better than a good granita or a refreshing lemon ice cream to take a sweet and refreshing break! Today we propose lemon granita, typical of the Sicilian tradition, home of this fresh dessert . You'll discover how simple it is to make homemade granita using an ordinary ice cream maker. By choosing organic, untreated lemons with thick skin and intense aroma, you'll get a fantastic result. Nothing to envy to ice creams and semifreddos, granita is lighter and captures all the goodness of lemons... ideal for ending a meal with a fresh dessert and excellent as a digestive, but also perfect for a delicious snack! What are you waiting for? Discover step by step how to prepare this refreshing lemon dessert, even in the Lemon granita without ice cream maker : a pleasure for the palate that will refresh your hot summer days! Here are other granitas not to be missed:
To prepare the lemon granita, pour the water and sugar into a small pot, stir with a spoon , and cook for about 5 minutes on low heat. Then turn off the heat and let it cool.
Meanwhile, grate the zest of 2 lemons , then squeeze them and filter the juice to get 1/3 cup (75 g).
When the syrup is cold , pour in the lemon juice and zest .
Transfer the mixture to an ice cream maker and let it churn for 35-40 minutes. Once the time is up, stop the ice cream maker: you will have obtained a rather compact but creamy mixture . Your lemon granita is ready to be enjoyed !
Serve the lemon granita immediately, or store it in the freezer for about a month, closed in an airtight container!
The lemon zest gives a more intense flavor, it can be omitted if the pieces are not to taste.
It is recommended to let the ice cream maker run “empty” for a few minutes to cool it down before adding the mixture.
It is important to boil sugar and water for five minutes to allow the latter to evaporate and obtain a syrup.

