name:
Vitello Tonnato and Mayonnaise
ingredients:
Veal: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (round or eye of round)
Tuna in oil: 5.6oz(160 g)- (red from Sicily)
Anchovies in oil: 7- (Catabrian)
Salted capers: 2tsp- (from Pantelleria)
Worcestershire sauce: 1tsp
Egg yolks: 2- (medium)
Vegetable oil: 1.1cups(250 g)
White wine vinegar: 2spoonfuls
Lemon juice: 1spoonful
Mustard: 1tbsp- (level)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High
Note + resting time

instructions:
Let's be honest: when browsing the menu in certain special places, our choice often falls on the classics, especially when we are in the typical production area. Vitello tonnato and mayonnaise is one of those appetizers we would always choose, even for the Christmas aperitif: tender meat presented in thin slices accompanied by creamy tuna sauce , thanks to the presence of homemade mayonnaise that gives an irresistibly smooth and velvety texture. This special recipe was created by the guys at Scannabue, a unique and historic trattoria in Turin, with the help of an equally special guest: Cooker Girl.
To prepare vitello tonnato and mayonnaise, make homemade mayonnaise (about 7 oz). Beat two egg yolks , add 1 1/2 tbsp of white wine vinegar, 2 tsp of lemon juice. Start working with a hand whisk . Slowly add vegetable oil while continuing to whisk to adjust the consistency .
Once you have achieved a creamy and homogeneous consistency , you can proceed with the preparation of the tuna sauce. Blend together the drained Sicilian red tuna in oil, the Cantabrian anchovies , and the desalted capers until you get a smooth mixture .
Add the mayonnaise to the mixture , then also the Worcestershire sauce , mix to obtain a smooth and homogeneous sauce . Set aside.
For the meat, take the piece of veal round (or eye of round): salt it , drizzle with oil , and massage the entire piece of meat .
Before baking, the meat should be browned in a preheated pan with a drizzle of oil to seal it : this will ensure that the juices stay inside and the meat remains tender even after baking. Then place in the oven at 275°F (preheated static oven), for 20-25 minutes (for the 2.2 lbs of meat we used). The internal temperature should be 138°F.
It's time to plate: cut the meat into very thin slices, arrange them on the serving plate , then top with the tuna sauce, a caper bud , and your Vitello tonnato and mayonnaise .
You can store the meat for 1 day in an airtight container.
You can store homemade mayonnaise for 1 day in the fridge.
You can store the tuna sauce for 1 day in the fridge.
For the classic version of veal with tuna sauce, after cooking the meat, all the drippings are collected, strained, and hard-boiled eggs (whole) are added, and if necessary, some more meat or vegetable broth, a drizzle of raw oil, tuna, anchovies, and toasted capers.
Paolo Fantini and Gigi Desana, two architect friends with a passion for good food that they have been sharing with all the guests of Scannabue since 2008, a special place they opened together in the heart of San Salvario, Turin. Many must-try dishes of Piedmontese cuisine, such as vitello tonnato and ravioli del plin, but also revisited dishes and original combinations, always paying great attention to quality and products.

