name:
Club Sandwich
ingredients:
White bread loaf: 6slices
Bacon: 4slices- (about 2.1 oz)
Turkey: 10.5oz(300 g)- slices
Cluster tomatoes: 7.1oz(200 g)
Lettuce: 4leaves
Mayonnaise: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Sandwiches can have many faces, and in this case also many layers... those of the Club Sandwich (or ClubHouse sandwich), the king of multi-layered sandwiches that we show you how to make at home! Toasted bread, mayonnaise, lettuce, turkey, tomato, and crispy bacon: nothing is left to chance in the composition so that the palate meets all the ingredients layer by layer, in a perfect order that best perceives tastes and textures. Perfect as a one-dish meal, this rich sandwich can be personalized to your liking and thus adapted to various occasions... whether it's for a picnic, breakfast, or a quick dinner with leftover ingredients, there's always a Club Sandwich for you! Here we show you the classic version, but don't miss out on these tasty variants:
To prepare the Club Sandwich, start by buttering the 6 slices of white bread with the softened butter (even better if melted), using a brush to spread it evenly , then briefly toast them in a pan (a couple of minutes on each side) and set aside. In the same pan, place the bacon slices and grill them for about 3 minutes per side .
Once cooked and well browned, let them cool by draining them on a paper towel . In the same pan, you can cook the turkey slices for 2-3 minutes total, on both sides . Once ready , let them cool slightly.
Wash and slice the tomatoes into thin slices , then wash and pat dry the lettuce leaves. You have all the ingredients to assemble the club sandwich: place the 6 slices of bread on the cutting board and spread one side of each with mayonnaise . Place a lettuce leaf touching the mayonnaise on one slice of bread .
Add a couple of slices of turkey , a couple of slices of tomato , and a slice of bacon cut in two .
Close with a slice of bread (the side with mayonnaise should be in contact with the bacon slices) . Spread the top side of the bread with more mayonnaise .
Repeat by adding the lettuce leaf, the meat slices, the tomatoes , and the bacon . Place the last slice of bread always with the mayonnaise in contact with the ingredients . Proceed in the same way to prepare the second Club Sandwich.
Skewer the corners of the sandwich with two toothpicks . Cut diagonally to obtain two halves of Club Sandwich and serve with fries and sauces to taste !
Store the Club Sandwich in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for one day. Freezing is not recommended.
You can replace the turkey with chicken breast slices. You can add black olives or pickles to skewer with the toothpick to serve your Club Sandwiches. You can enrich it with a boiled or soft-boiled egg on the last layer after the bacon.
For an even more homemade touch, prepare the mayonnaise at home or alternatively dress with mustard.

