name:
Fregola with Clams
ingredients:
Fregola pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (small clams)
Peeled tomatoes: 2.6cups(150 g)- diced
White wine: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: 1spoonful- minced
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 2 hours for the purging of the clams

instructions:
Fregola with clams, in Sardinian fregula cun cocciula , is a typical and very tasty Sardinian recipe. Fregola is a type of pasta that looks similar to couscous but is larger and has a unique texture. It's made by mixing water and semolina into small balls and then toasting them in the oven, which allows them to absorb sauces wonderfully.
In this recipe, the fregola is paired with clams to create a rich and creamy dish that’s perfect for any meal, whether it’s a casual family dinner or a special occasion. The combination of the toasty fregola and the savory clams makes this dish a true standout.
So, are you ready to bring a taste of Sardinia to your kitchen? Let’s get started on making fregola with clams!
Discover also these recipes with fregola:
To prepare fregola with clams, start by How to clean clams them. The first thing to do is to tap each one to make sure they are not full of sand: if they are, they will open during the tap . Then leave them to soak for a couple of hours in fresh, salted water, so they can eliminate the sand inside . After this time, drain and rinse them; if you find any broken or open clams, discard them .
Move to the stove and place a large pot on the burner. Heat a drizzle of oil and a peeled garlic clove , then add the clams , and pour in the white wine
and cover with the lid . Turn up the heat to the maximum and let them open for 4-5 minutes, shaking the pot occasionally . Once ready, drain them through a fine-mesh sieve, or possibly through sterile gauze, to remove any sand or shell residues. As soon as you notice the garlic clove, discard it .
Keep half of the clams whole for decoration, and shell the other half . Set aside the clams and the cooking liquid and continue with the base in which to cook the fregola. Put a saucepan on the stove, add a drizzle of oil, and heat with another peeled garlic clove . As soon as the base is hot, remove the garlic
and add the finely chopped peeled tomatoes . Let them flavor over medium heat for a couple of minutes and then add the fregola .
Stir and add the clam cooking liquid, one ladleful at a time, as you would with rice . If the liquid is not enough, add some warm water or vegetable broth. Season with salt and pepper, then stir . When there is one minute left until the end of cooking, add the clams and stir .
Finally, turn off the stove and add the chopped parsley . Your fregola with clams is ready, you just need to stir again , plate, and garnish with a pinch of pepper !
If you prefer, you can store your fregola with clams for up to one day, but it is advisable to consume it immediately to preserve its color, taste, and texture.
Instead of parsley, you can flavor your fregola with clams by adding dill and why not, spice up the dish with some saffron: it goes perfectly with clams!

