name:
Sarde a Beccafico (Sicilian Stuffed Sardines)
ingredients:
Sardines: 1.2lbs(520 g)- already cleaned
Bay leaves: to taste
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(50 g)
Raisins: 2tbsp(25 g)
Parsley: 2tbsp(10 g)
Pine nuts: 1oz(25 g)
Anchovies in oil: 1tbsp(15 g)- (the fillets)
Sugar: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Acacia honey: 2.4tbsp(35 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Orange juice: 2.4tbsp(35 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Just turn the corner of any Sicilian city to discover a new version... today we talk about sarde a beccafico! A delicious, colorful, fragrant, and flavorful second course. The name of this recipe comes from the beccafico, little birds that were once only eaten by nobles. So the people made a similar dish with what they had available, such as eggplants , meat, or the sardines we offer you today. The combination of flavors that blend in this dish makes it particularly tasty and delicious, definitely worth trying. The sardine rolls are stuffed with a pleasantly sweet mixture made with breadcrumbs, pine nuts, and raisins, ingredients also found in the famous pasta with sardines . The whole thing is then covered with an orange-scented emulsion. Also prepare the variant with pork loin to satisfy everyone's tastes at the table!
To prepare sarde a beccafico, first make sure your sardines are already cleaned (you will need 1.2 lbs of butterfly-cut sardines), otherwise you can follow our guide how to clean anchovies ; the procedure will be the same. Then proceed to prepare the filling by first rinsing and then soaking the raisins in cold water for about ten minutes. Then pour a drizzle of oil into a pan, add the breadcrumbs and toast them for a couple of minutes over medium heat, stirring continuously .
In the meantime, chop the parsley and roughly chop the anchovies . In a bowl, pour the breadcrumbs, the drained and squeezed raisins ,
the pine nuts , the anchovies , the parsley, the sugar , salt, and pepper.
Mix everything together and set aside for a moment. Then grease a 8x8 inch baking dish and proceed to stuff the sardines. Place some filling on each sardine
and roll it starting from the head end , forming a roll. Arrange the sardines in the baking dish in an orderly manner, so they are close to each other . Take the bay leaves, if they are very large, divide them in half, otherwise use them whole. Place the leaves between each roll .
At this point sprinkle the surface with the remaining filling . Now prepare the emulsion. Pour the honey, orange juice ,
and oil into a small bowl. Emulsify by quickly whisking with a fork, then spread over the sardines using a spoon . Bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for about 20-25 minutes. Then take them out of the oven and serve.
Sarde a beccafico can be stored in the refrigerator for up to a couple of days.
If you want to prepare sarde a beccafico Catanese style, in the filling, you must replace half of the breadcrumbs with the same weight of grated pecorino cheese, and add chopped garlic or onion. Additionally, the mixture is spread on the sardine's flesh, which is then topped with another sardine like a sandwich (with the skin facing out); these are then dipped in beaten egg, subsequently in breadcrumbs, and finally fried.

