name:
Millefoglie
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1.5lbs(670 g)- (in block)
Sugar: to taste
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Fine salt: 0.4tsp(2 g)
Egg yolks: 5.3oz(150 g)- (about 10)
Whole milk: 0.85cup(200 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Water: 1.3cups(300 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus the preparation time for the puff pastry and the cooling of the cream

instructions:
Among the most popular cakes for birthdays, graduations, and many other occasions, there is certainly one that is always appreciated by everyone: the millefoglie cake! Crisp layers of puff pastry stacked on top of each other give a special crunch, and combined with a velvety vanilla cream, they make the palate happy. A traditional and timeless sweet of French origin, also known as Napoleon in the rest of Europe. And it is precisely thanks to its simplicity that it satisfies everyone's taste, but it can be customized according to each occasion with berries, strawberries, or chocolate chips! Let's discover together the recipe to prepare the millefoglie dessert, how to caramelize it, and how to fill it! Here are other ideas not to be missed, to make a delicious millefoglie:
To prepare the millefoglie, first, make the puff pastry . Once it has rested well, you can roll it out. Instead of using flour to roll out the dough, use granulated sugar. Sprinkle the dough block with sugar and start rolling it out gently with a rolling pin . Then turn the dough and continue rolling it out .
Once you have rolled it out enough, continue to roll it out lengthwise only, paying attention to the corners. Try to make an exact rectangle to get a more precise cake, always using sugar. You need to get a rectangle of about 23x10 inches, 1/8 inch thick . Gently run a hand under the dough to let air in and help it relax; then let it rest on the counter for about 5 minutes. When it is totally relaxed, you can cut it. You should get three rectangles of equal size .
Transfer the rectangles to two baking sheets lined with parchment paper and before baking, prick the dough with a fork . Place both trays in the center of a preheated oven at 375°F and bake in static mode for 15 minutes. Then lower the oven to 340°F and continue baking for another 35 minutes; this way, you will dry out the dough inside and get a well-caramelized result. Check the baking from time to time as it may vary depending on your oven. If necessary, you can swap the two trays halfway through baking.
In the meantime, prepare the vanilla cream. Pour the flour, sugar , and a pinch of salt into a bowl. At this point, mix with a whisk : this will prevent lumps.
Add the egg yolks a little at a time, always stirring , and continue until all the yolks are incorporated. Stir vigorously until you get a smooth batter. Now heat the liquids. Pour the milk and cream into a saucepan.
and the water . Split a vanilla bean lengthwise and scrape out the seeds from one half , then add both the seeds and the emptied pod to the saucepan . Heat everything without bringing it to a boil to avoid a thermal shock to the eggs.
Pour a bit of the hot liquid into the batter using a ladle , then stir with a whisk to temper it . Then pour everything back into the saucepan, always stirring with a whisk so the batter doesn't settle at the bottom and cook too quickly .
Keep stirring with the whisk until it thickens , making sure to go along the edges of the saucepan to prevent the cream from sticking. It will take a while because the flour gelatinizes when it reaches 194°F. Then pour the cream into a shallow and wide dish and cover it with plastic wrap touching the surface ; this way, a skin will not form on the surface. Let it cool in the refrigerator.
At this point, the dough will be cooked, and you can take it out of the oven . Once the cream is cold, remove the vanilla pod and transfer the cream to a bowl. To make it smooth and shiny, quickly stir it with a whisk . Then transfer it to a piping bag without a nozzle.
Now you just need to assemble the cake. Transfer the first rectangle of dough to a cutting board and trim it with a knife to get more precise edges . Then transfer it to a serving dish and take the cream. Make tufts all over the surface, leaving the outer edge free ; this way, you can be sure that the cream won't spill out with the weight of the other layers.
Then trim the second layer of dough and place it on top of the cream . Then, again with the piping bag, arrange the cream as before until you use it all up .
Take the last layer, trim it as done before, and place it on top of the cream . Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve your millefoglie .
Once filled, the millefoglie cake will maintain its crispness for a few hours. The next day it will still be good but may be less crunchy. The cream can be prepared a day in advance and stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap touching the surface. The dough can also be baked a day in advance.
Using sugar instead of flour to roll out the dough results in a less dry and more crumbly outcome. Additionally, this will penetrate the dough and caramelize it from the inside. Letting the dough rest is important. This way, when cutting it, it won't shrink. Pricking the dough before baking ensures it won't puff up too much and yields a better result. Water in the cream helps to lighten it and gives even more flavor because it's a great vehicle and very neutral. Alternatively, you can use the same amount of milk. If you want to make Italian Chantilly, you can use 50% cream and 50% whipped cream.
Once the dough is spread on the baking sheet, sprinkle it with sugar and bake as indicated.
It's possible to use orange or lemon zest, but also natural extracts, like almond extract!
You can use any cream you prefer, as long as it is thick enough.

