name:
How to Whip Cream
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste- (optional)
Mascarpone cheese: to taste- (optional)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the time for chilling the cream in the refrigerator

instructions:
Whipped cream, that soft, sweet, white cloud that decorates cakes, perfect for dipping a finger into. The extra touch when enjoying a good homemade ice cream or hot chocolate , special with strawberries to create baskets or rolls ! It is also used as a base for mousses, semifreddos, and some creams like yogurt cream or the classic diplomatic cream . With the addition of powdered sugar and vanilla seeds, it becomes a delicious Chantilly cream , perfect for filling or decorating desserts like the Mug Cake . But how do you prepare whipped cream? We reveal the simple tricks to whip cream based on different uses: semi-whipped (for example, to prepare a Bavarian cream) and fully whipped (for decorations and coatings). We'll also show you how to avoid the pitfalls this simple preparation can hide and how to recover "curdled cream." Gather some fresh liquid cream, an electric beater (or stand mixer), a well-chilled stainless steel or glass bowl, and some Homemade powdered sugar to sweeten as desired!
To make soft-whipped cream, first chill the bowl and beaters in the fridge for at least 15 minutes. Pour the cold cream from the fridge into the bowl, whip at medium speed to achieve a stable consistency. If you want to sweeten it, you can add granulated or powdered sugar slowly from the beginning. Whip the cream until it is fluffy and frothy, creamy but not stiff .
To get stiff whipped cream, always start with a well-chilled bowl and beaters from the fridge. Pour the cold liquid cream into the bowl . At this stage, to avoid getting dirty, you can cover the bowl with plastic wrap, creating a space for the beaters to pass through.
Work the cream with the beaters first at low speed and then gradually increase to medium speed . At this stage, you can add powdered or granulated sugar if required by your recipe . Gradually incorporate the sugar until the cream is well whipped . We do not recommend whipping too stiff if you are using the cream for cake decorations, as it will not be smooth and compact.
To make the whipped cream more stable, you can add a tablespoon of mascarpone . The cream will be more structured ; it will be perfect for piping with a pastry bag for cake and treat decorations.
How to recover over-whipped cream? This happens if the liquid fresh cream is whipped too much , perhaps using too high a speed or whipping for too long .
To recover it, simply add more fresh liquid cream and gently mix with a spatula . In this way, the cream will become soft, no longer lumpy . If the cream is excessively curdled, meaning the fat has separated from the liquid, you have made butter and it cannot be recovered.
Once the fresh liquid cream is whipped , it can be colored with gel or powder food colorings, which provide more intense hues without diluting the cream, which would cause it to deflate. You can also use natural colorings like instant coffee or cherry syrup. Gently mix with a spatula to even out the color .
How to avoid splashes? You can cover the bowl with plastic wrap and insert the beaters inside.
For uses: semi-whipped cream is used to accompany cups of canned peaches or fresh strawberries, to prepare mousses, semifreddos, Bavarian creams, mascarpone cream, or to make diplomatic cream. Whipped cream can be used to serve hot chocolate, ice cream, and other spoon desserts and is perfect for coating or decorating cakes, such as the Poke cake . With the addition of powdered sugar and vanilla seeds, it becomes a delicious Chantilly cream!

