name:
Pasta with Salmon and Zucchini Cream
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Smoked Salmon: 7.1oz(200 g)
Zucchini: 4 ½cups(400 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 ml)
Garlic: 2cloves
Black pepper: 1pinch
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Remember our fusilli with zucchini pesto and salmon ? A creamy and delicately flavored first course that highlights a winning and timeless combination: salmon and zucchini . Inspired by this inseparable pairing, we have reversed the preparations. In this recipe for pasta with salmon and zucchini cream, it is the salmon, combined with cream, that becomes a soft cream. The zucchini will be the solid part of the dish, diced and sautéed. The same flavors and aromas in a different but captivating guise, which will win you over at the first bite! Also try the pasta with smoked salmon for an equally creamy variant.
To make the pasta with salmon and zucchini cream, first cut the salmon into small pieces . Pour a drizzle of extra-virgin olive oil into a pan and add a peeled garlic clove . Sauté for a few moments, then add the salmon , cook for 2 minutes, stirring occasionally.
At the end of cooking, remove the garlic clove and turn off the heat . Trim the zucchini, then cut them first into slices and then into small cubes .
Pour another drizzle of olive oil into the pan and sauté the second garlic clove . After a few seconds, add the zucchini , salt, and pepper. Cook for about 15 minutes on medium heat, stirring often. Meanwhile, bring a pot of salted water to a boil. In the meantime, blend the cooked salmon for a few seconds using an immersion blender .
Mix with the cream and blend again until you get a creamy mixture .
Cook the linguine for the time indicated on the package . Meanwhile, the zucchini will have finished cooking, remove the garlic clove and set them aside . When the linguine is cooked, drain it .
Season with the previously prepared salmon cream and sautéed zucchini . Stir to flavor and serve the pasta with salmon and zucchini cream piping hot .
It is recommended to consume the pasta with salmon and zucchini cream immediately. We do not recommend freezing.
Garnish the dish with mint leaves to make it fresher and more aromatic.

