name:
No-Bake Sweet Roll
ingredients:
Cookies: 10.6oz(300 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 0.6cup(50 g)
Sugar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Whole milk: 0.4cup(100 g)- cold
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(200 g)- (well drained)
Dark chocolate chips: 0.5oz(15 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.4cup(50 g)
Rum: 1spoonful
Coffee: 1oz(30 ml)- (espresso)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note plus 2 hours in the freezer

instructions:
With the heat, the desire to cook and turn on the oven is always less! But if you suddenly crave a Cocoa roll with milk cream , what can you do? The biscuit dough requires time and energy to prepare and a brief baking in the oven. So here's the idea: no-bake sweet roll. You will be surprised not only by its goodness but also by its softness, despite using dry biscuits for the base! For the filling, we chose a ricotta cream flavored with coffee and rum, with delicious chocolate chips! After the success of the no-bake tart , the roll could not be missed: easy to prepare, you can make it in advance and store it in the freezer to satisfy your cravings at any time!
To prepare the no-bake sweet roll, prepare the coffee in the required amount using a moka pot. Let it cool. Meanwhile, make the cream by pouring the well-drained ricotta into a bowl , then add the cooled coffee and the rum .
Mix with a spatula , then sift in the powdered sugar and mix again .
Add the chocolate chips , mix one last time and place in the refrigerator until the base is ready. Then prepare the base. Melt the butter and let it cool. Pour the dry biscuits into a mixer
and blend them until fine crumbs are obtained . Then pour them into a bowl , add the unsweetened cocoa powder ,
the sugar and the now-cool melted butter . Mix everything ,
then add a portion of the milk and continue to mix. Pour the milk little by little to better adjust the consistency; you will need 3/8-1/2 cup. Mix the mixture well until it is compact and homogeneous . Then transfer it onto a layer of plastic wrap .
Cover with another layer of plastic wrap and roll out the dough using a rolling pin . You should obtain a rectangle about 10x12 inches. Remove the top layer of plastic wrap and take the cream from the refrigerator. Spread it on the base, leaving the edges free .
Using the plastic wrap to lift the edge , roll up the dough firmly but gently. You will get your roll , store it in the freezer for 2 hours before cutting it. Once cut into slices, wait a few minutes before serving it .
After cutting the roll into slices, you can store it in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, well covered. Alternatively, quickly cut the slices and place them back in the freezer. They will keep for a month.
It is recommended to cut the roll almost frozen, this way you will have no difficulty in making the slices.
You can use candied fruit instead of chocolate chips.

