name:
Pasta with Pepper and Cheese
ingredients:
Red peppers: 14.1oz(400 g)- to clean
Cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Shallot: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Water: 0.625cup(150 g)
Sweet Paprika: ½tsp
Fusilli pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
A creamy sauce, made even more tantalizing with the addition of cheese that melts in just a few moments: this is how our pasta with bell pepper and cheese is born, a tasty first course that will brighten up your menus. The result of the combination of bell peppers and cheese is an explosive mix of bold and enveloping flavors that will win over both young and old at the first taste! Served in delightful single-portion cocottes, this pasta with bell pepper and cheese cream will not only be delicious but also beautiful to look at!
Try these tasty variations of pasta with bell peppers as well:
To make the pasta with bell pepper and cheese, peel and thinly slice the shallot . Wash the bell peppers, cut them in half, remove the seeds and stalk . Cut them into pieces about 1 inch .
Pour the shallot into a pan , drizzle with oil , and sauté for a couple of minutes. Add the bell peppers to the shallot sauté .
Cover with water and season with paprika , cook over medium heat for 10 minutes. Once cooked ,
transfer everything into a tall glass and blend with an immersion blender until you get a smooth cream . Pour the bell pepper cream into a large pot ,
add the fresh cream , thyme , and adjust the pepper and salt. Keep it warm. Meanwhile, cook the fusilli in boiling salted water .
Drain the al dente fusilli and transfer them to the pot with the bell pepper cream , stir to flavor . Grease 4 individual mini cocottes with oil .
Pour the pasta . Place a slice of cheese on top of the pasta for each cocotte and put it in a preheated oven, grill mode for 1 minute. Remove from the oven and season with pepper . The pasta with bell pepper and cheese cream is ready, enjoy it hot!
Pasta with bell pepper and cheese can be stored for one day in the refrigerator. You can prepare the sauce in advance or freeze it.
If you do not have mini cocottes, you can pour the pasta into an oven dish, you will get the same creamy and stringy result.

