name:
Egg White and Cocoa Cake
ingredients:
Egg whites: 4
Fine salt: 1pinch
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(240 g)
Baking powder: 1bag
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2 ¾tsp(40 g)
Natural plain yogurt: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Vegetable oil: 0.4cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The egg white and cocoa cake is a soft, delicious, and fragrant dessert... a perfect cake for the whole family, ideal for using up leftover egg whites in the kitchen, perhaps after making pastry cream or zabaione . An exceptional batter, made so fluffy thanks to the addition of yogurt and stiffly beaten egg whites. A cloud of sweetness with a rich and tasty flavor, with a unique softness that lasts for several days! A chocolate-flavored cake perfect for breakfast or a snack, without butter and yolks, suitable for the whole family! Also, find out how to make the leftover egg white plumcake and other delicious anti-waste recipes!
To prepare the egg white and cocoa cake, first place the whites in a large bowl. Add a pinch of salt and start beating them with an electric whisk until you get stiff peaks .
In another bowl, sift the flour and baking powder . Then add the sugar
and mix the dry ingredients . Then add the cocoa powder and mix again .
Pour in the oil , the yogurt , and mix with a spatula
until you get a smooth and homogeneous mixture . Then incorporate the egg whites little by little , mixing from the bottom up. When finished
pour the batter into a 9-inch springform pan lined with parchment paper . Bake in a preheated conventional oven at 350°F for about 40 minutes, always performing the toothpick test before removing the cake from the oven . Let your egg white and cocoa cake cool completely in the pan before transferring it to a plate and enjoying it.
The egg white and cocoa cake can be kept for 2-3 days under a glass dome.
You can add chocolate chips to the batter to make it even more delicious.
Yogurt can be substituted with ricotta or mascarpone.

