name:
Montanarine with burrata and smoked salmon
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 4.67cups(580 g)
Whole milk: 1.7cups(400 g)- at room temperature
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.35oz(10 g)
Fine salt: 0.8tsp(5 g)
Burrata cheese: 3.3cups(400 g)
Smoked Salmon: 14oz(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(100 g)
Parsley: 10tsp(10 g)
Pink peppercorn: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Note + the rising time (approximately 2 1/2 hours in total)

instructions:
To prepare the montanarine with burrata and smoked salmon, add the all-purpose flour , crumbled yeast , and milk into the stand mixer bowl. Knead with the hook for 5 minutes until the dough is hooked to the hook.
Add the oil and salt to the mixture and knead again for about 5-10 minutes until fully incorporated, obtaining a smooth, soft, and elastic dough .
Transfer the dough onto the work surface , form it into a ball by rotating it with the palm of your hands , then place the dough in a large bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise at about 77°F for 2 hours, until it doubles in volume.
After the resting time , transfer the risen dough to the work surface and divide it into 20 pieces of about 1.6 ounces .
Shape the dough balls and place them on one or more baking sheets lined with parchment paper (at least 2 inches apart from each other) . Let the montanarine rise again for 30 minutes away from drafts or air currents at about 77°F (optionally cover with soft plastic wrap in contact). Meanwhile, pour oil and parsley into a tall container .
Blend with an immersion mixer to obtain a homogeneous sauce . Retrieve the risen dough balls .
Lightly press the balls in the center . Heat the seed oil to a temperature of 330°F, then immerse the montanarine and cook for about 3-5 minutes each until golden .
Drain the montanarine on paper towels , let them cool slightly , and garnish with smoked salmon .
Add the fresh burrata , parsley oil , and pink pepper. Serve the montanarine with burrata and smoked salmon immediately !
It is recommended to consume the montanarine with burrata and smoked salmon as soon as they are ready.
It's possible to replace the smoked salmon with sautéed seasonal vegetables for a vegan version or you can dare a spicy variant with 'nduja!

