name:
Grilled Lemon Calamari
ingredients:
Calamari (squid): 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (to clean)
Bread: 7.8oz(220 g)
Lemon juice: 4tbsp(60 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Basil: 1cup(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Taste of the sea and Garlic and Lemon Scented Squid ... with lemon grilled squid on the table, you'll already feel like you're on vacation! A more inviting version of the classic stuffed squid , enriched with a soft filling based on bread and basil that contrasts with the firm texture of the squid. Easy to prepare and cook on a common griddle, this tasty seafood main course is as good as any restaurant dish by the beach... while waiting for the long-awaited departure, bring the sea directly to your home with the lemon grilled squid recipe, perhaps along with an evergreen Fried Calamari !
To prepare grilled lemon calamari, first, take care of cleaning the calamari: rinse them well under running water , then gently detach the tentacle cluster from the body with your hands and set it aside . Remove the transparent cartilage quill from inside the body .
Extract the innards with your hands, carefully washing the inside of the body under running water . Peel off the calamari's skin with your hands ; finally, take the tentacle cluster and remove the eye by cutting it off with a knife . You will need about 21 oz of cleaned calamari. For more information on cleaning calamari, you can consult our cooking school " How to Clean Squid ".
Now you can move on to preparing the stuffing: cut the bread into cubes and place it in a food processor with a steel blade , then add salt, pepper, and the basil leaves, which you have previously washed and dried . Add also the grated lemon zest and juice .
Pour the extra virgin olive oil and blend until you obtain a rather moist and coarse consistency . Take the cleaned calamari and insert the breadcrumb mixture inside with a spoon, making sure to fill them to the bottom while leaving a couple of inches at the top so you can close them up .
Next, take the tentacle cluster that you removed earlier, position it at the end of the calamari, and seal the opening with a toothpick, piercing both the edges of the calamari and the cluster; this way, you will anchor the tentacle cluster to the calamari's body and prevent the stuffing from escaping . Heat a well-oiled grill , then place the stuffed calamari on one side and let them cook for about 10-12 minutes on medium flame .
Turn them on all sides to achieve an even golden color . Once cooked, remove the calamari from the grill and slice them into pieces : your grilled lemon calamari is ready to be served !
Grilled lemon calamari can be kept in the fridge for a day, in an airtight container. Before serving, you can reheat them in the oven for a few minutes.
If you wish, you can prepare the stuffing a day before and store it in the fridge to allow the flavors to better blend. You can also stuff the calamari the day before and store them in the fridge in an airtight container.
To cook the calamari evenly, it's essential to use a well-heated grill; obviously, the cooking time may vary depending on the size of the squid used.
As for the stuffing, you can further flavor it with thyme leaves or enrich it with dried fruits.
As an alternative, instead of fixing the tentacle clusters to the calamari with a toothpick, you can finely chop them and add them to the stuffing, then close the calamari in the same way.

