name:
Sardinian Gnocchetti with Clams and Zucchini Cream
ingredients:
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Zucchini: 3 ½cups(400 g)
Gnocchetti Sardi pasta: 14.1oz(400 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Parsley: 5sprigs
Zucchini flowers: 10
Almonds: 0.1cup(30 g)- toasted
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Lemon peel: ½

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note +2 hours soaking of the clams

instructions:
From the delicious encounter between spaghetti with clams and zucchini come these delightful Sardinian gnocchetti with clams and zucchini cream. A fish first course with an enveloping flavor that best enhances spring flavors: a creamy zucchini sauce, some zucchini flowers, and the savory touch of clams. With this winning mix, you will bring to the table a dish that masterfully combines the most loved flavors.
Come discover other tasty fish first courses:
To make Sardinian gnocchetti with clams and zucchini cream, start by How to clean clams . Make sure there are no broken or empty shells, as they should be discarded. Then, tap them against the sink, or alternatively on a cutting board. This operation is important to check that there is no sand inside: healthy bivalves will remain closed, while those full of sand will open. Then place the clams in a colander resting on a bowl and rinse them. Soak the clams in fresh water and add plenty of coarse salt. Let the clams soak for 2 hours . After this time, rinse and drain them . In a large pan, sauté the parsley stems and crushed garlic cloves with the palm of your hand in some oil .
When the garlic is golden, add the drained clams , immediately cover with a lid , and let the clams open for a few minutes over medium heat, shaking occasionally. Turn off the heat, then discard the garlic and parsley stems.
Start shelling the clams, leaving a few for decoration and placing the shelled clams in a small container , ensuring to cover them with some of their cooking liquid. Then strain the clam liquid and set it aside . Move on to the zucchini cream: remove the ends of the zucchini .
Cut them into sticks, discarding the white part to obtain the outer green part. Bring a pot of salted water to a boil (the same one you will use to cook the gnocchetti). Boil the zucchini for about 30 seconds . Drain immediately in ice water to preserve the color.
Transfer the zucchini to the jug of an immersion blender , add the oil and toasted almonds .
Add half a ladle of clam water . Blend and add more clam water as needed to achieve a thick, creamy pesto . Season with salt and pepper.
Clean the zucchini flowers: remove any soil with a brush, extract the inner pistil and cut them into thin strips . Boil the gnocchetti .
Pour the zucchini cream into the pan , add the pepper and lemon zest .
As soon as they float to the surface, drain the gnocchetti in the pan , adjust the consistency with a little more cooking water, and finish cooking . Turn off and also add the clams .
Finish with the julienned zucchini flowers , a drizzle of oil , and emulsify by tossing everything. Plate adding the clams with shells set aside. The Sardinian gnocchetti with clams and zucchini cream are ready to be enjoyed .
All forms of conservation are not recommended. Serve it as soon as it is ready.
Choose fresh and firm zucchinis; otherwise, they will turn out bitter. The white part of the zucchinis can be reused for a vegetable broth or sautéed as a side dish.

