name:
Pineapple and Greek Yogurt Loaf Cake
ingredients:
Greek yogurt: 0.85cup(200 g)- 5% fat
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Vegetable oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Eggs: 3- medium
Baking powder: 1bag
Lemon peel: ½
Pineapple: 12oz(340 g)- canned, drained
Fine salt: 1pinch
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pineapple and Greek yogurt loaf cake is a delicate and delicious dessert perfect for breakfast or a snack. Just like in the case of these muffins , what makes the batter extraordinarily soft and light is the presence of Greek yogurt, which partially replaces the fat content of the recipe. Besides providing this special softness, Greek yogurt also imparts a particular taste to the cake, slightly tangy which is contrasted by the sweetness of the canned pineapple making the pound cake incredibly good! And to transform it into a dessert for after dinner, try warming a slice and serving it with a scoop of vanilla ice cream! And if you're a fan of loaf cakes, also try this one, made with leftover egg whites !
To prepare the pineapple and Greek yogurt loaf cake, start by making the batter. Pour the eggs into a bowl, add the sugar , and beat with an electric mixer until you get a frothy mixture .
Then add the grated lemon zest , a pinch of salt , and the Greek yogurt .
Work again with the electric mixer, this time on low speed . When the yogurt is well incorporated, add the previously sifted flour and baking powder .
Add the vegetable oil and work again with the mixer until you get a smooth and compact batter .
Then drain the pineapple and take 5 oz of it. Cut it into fairly large cubes and pour them into the batter .
Mix with a spatula and pour into a previously greased and floured 11x4 inch mold. Level the surface with a spatula . Then cut the 3 remaining pineapple slices in half
and use them to decorate the surface of the loaf cake . Bake in a preheated conventional oven at 350°F for 40 minutes, then remove it from the oven and let it cool completely before removing it from the mold and decorating with powdered sugar .
Pineapple and Greek yogurt loaf cake keeps for 3 days at room temperature, covered with plastic wrap or aluminum foil, or under a glass dome. Freezing is not recommended.
You can use fresh pineapple instead of canned pineapple.

