name:
Pasta with Pistachio Pesto and Shrimp
ingredients:
Fusilli pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Shrimps: 12
Sweet Pancetta: 4.2oz(120 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Pistachios: 1 ½cup(200 g)- green, shelled, and skinless
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.2oz(35 g)- to grate
Lemon peel: ½- to grate
Basil: 1.8oz(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 7tbsp(100 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
If you usually limit yourself to serving pistachios as a snack to munch on during happy hour, this recipe will surprise you! Pasta with pistachio pesto and shrimp is a delicious first course that combines dried fruit with the sweetness of shellfish and the savory note of pancetta. For the pasta shape, we chose fusilli because they are perfect for capturing pistachio pesto , a unique-tasting and envelopingly creamy condiment. Simple to make but with great impact, this dish also lends itself to other tasty variations: like the one with salmon .
Discover how many first courses can be prepared with pistachio crumbles:
To make pasta with pistachio pesto and shrimp, first put the pot with water on the stove to cook the pasta, to be salted when boiling. Proceed with the pistachio pesto: peel the garlic clove and cut it in half, then remove the core . You can pour it into cold water and count one minute from the start of boiling : this way it will be more digestible and delicate. In the cup of a blender, pour the pistachios and grated Grana Padano DOP .
Add the oil , garlic , and water .
Also add the basil leaves and the grated lemon zest , salt, pepper, and blend until you get a creamy and homogeneous consistency .
Move on to cleaning the shrimp: remove the head and shell, then slit the back with a small knife and gently extract the internal vein .
Cut and then pour the pancetta into a large, already hot pan , brown for a few minutes until golden and crispy . Set aside the pancetta and keep the pan with the cooking base.
In the meantime, the water will have come to a boil, so pour in the pasta and cook it for 3 minutes less than the time indicated on the package. In the pan where you browned the pancetta, sear the shrimp on one side for a couple of minutes , then deglaze the base with a ladleful of pasta cooking water and turn off the heat.
Drain the pasta directly into the pan with the shrimp , then add another ladleful of cooking water and the pancetta .
Also add the pistachio pesto , mix well, and toss everything until the liquid is absorbed. Finally, dress with a drizzle of raw oil . Your pasta with pistachio pesto and shrimp is ready to be served !
It is recommended to serve the pasta with pistachio pesto and shrimp immediately. Alternatively, it can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day.
If desired, you can prepare the pistachio pesto in advance and store it in a jar in the refrigerator for up to 4-5 days, making sure it is covered with a layer of oil. You can also freeze it in convenient single portions.
To make pistachio pesto, it is preferable to use green and shelled pistachios to obtain a more vibrant color, but if you have pistachios with the skin, it is not a problem: the dish will have a more rustic look, but the taste will not suffer!
If you prefer to shell them, proceed as follows: blanch the pistachios for one minute, then immediately transfer them to ice water to keep them bright green. Finally, rub them with a cloth to remove the skin.
Those who like the full taste of garlic can avoid blanching it; those who don't like it at all can simply omit it.
If you prefer, you can use rum or brandy to deglaze the shrimp instead of pasta cooking water.

