name:
Baozi
ingredients:
Wheat flour: 2 ¾cups(330 g)- refined
Water: 0.6cup(150 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(6 g)
Pork: 8.8oz(250 g)- ground (suckling pig belly)
Chinese cabbage: 3.5oz(100 g)- (napa cabbage)
Fresh scallion: 1
Fresh ginger: 2tsp(10 g)
Soy sauce: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Sugar: 1tbsp(15 g)
Sesame oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1 ½tsp(10 g)
Black pepper: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 13 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + rising time (about 80 min.)

instructions:
Legend has it that they originated in China thousands of years ago, but their deliciousness is a fact, as baozi are now popular and appreciated all over the world! These lovely steamed buns are consumed as snacks at any time of day, including breakfast (just like steamed dumplings ), and are considered one of the most loved Asian street foods. The dough, soft and delicate, is very similar to that of Chinese Steamed Buns (Mantou) , while the filling can be made of meat, vegetables, shrimp, or even sweet. Chef Guglielmo Paolucci offers us the version with pork, napa cabbage, and scallions, emphasizing that one of the fundamental characteristics of baozi is the right proportion between the amount of filling and dough so that each bite is well balanced. Following the movements of his hands, we will also discover how to close them perfectly! Don't be intimidated if you initially feel a lack of manual skills... enjoying one baozi after another, we are sure that in the end, you will also become true experts!
Don't miss these other Chinese cuisine specialties:
To make the baozi, first prepare the dough: pour the water into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a hook attachment , add the dry yeast , and briefly stir with a spoon to dissolve it .
Add the wheat flour and sugar and run the mixer on low speed for 5-6 minutes .
When the mixture is compact , transfer it to a lightly floured work surface and briefly knead to form a smooth, round shape . Place the dough in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rest at room temperature for about 40 minutes.
Meanwhile, prepare the filling: remove the central rib of the napa cabbage and chop the leaf , then finely chop the scallion .
Peel and chop the ginger, or alternatively, you can grate it . In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, add the napa cabbage, scallion , and ginger .
Add the ground pork , sugar , salt, and pepper .
Finally, season with sesame oil and soy sauce and run the mixer on low speed for 5 minutes, until the ingredients are well combined .
After the rising time , transfer the dough to a lightly floured work surface and, after kneading briefly, divide it into 3 portions with a dough scraper . Stretch each portion with your fingertips to form rolls .
Make quick folds and stretch the rolls again, then cut them into 1.25 oz pieces each : it is important to weigh the dough to ensure the right proportion between dough and filling.
Roll each piece of dough on the work surface to form a ball , then flatten it with the palm of your hand. At this point, take a small rolling pin and press it on the edges of the disk with your right hand while rotating the dough counterclockwise with your left hand ; this way, the edges will be thinner while the center remains thicker to better hold the filling juices .
Proceed this way with all the dough disks, then divide the filling into 0.88 oz portions each. Add a portion of filling to the center of each disk and spread it slightly with a teaspoon. To close the baozi, flour your fingers well to prevent the edges from getting wet: keep your thumb fixed on the edge of the dough while pinching and pulling the rest of the dough with your index finger .
Once you reach the end, pinch the top and rotate the baozi with your hand to seal it , then rotate it on the work surface to round it . As you form the baozi, place them on squares of parchment paper that you have previously arranged on a baking sheet. When they are all formed , cover the baking sheet with plastic wrap and let rise at room temperature for 40 minutes.
After this time, you are ready for cooking: bring water to a boil in a steamer and place the baozi along with their parchment squares . Cover with the lid and steam for about 12-13 minutes. Once cooked, turn off the heat and let them rest in the pot for another 2 minutes, then transfer them to the traditional bamboo basket . Your baozi are ready to be served !
Baozi can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. Alternatively, you can freeze them before cooking; when you want to cook them, thaw them in the refrigerator.
Refined wheat flour is specific for this type of preparation and can be found in ethnic grocery stores. Alternatively, you can use all-purpose flour, but the result will be slightly different.
Sesame oil gives a particular aroma to the filling, but olive oil can also be used as an alternative. Instead of napa cabbage, you can use savoy cabbage.
The ideal cut for the filling meat is pork belly, which is much less fatty than regular pork belly. If you have a meat grinder, you can grind it yourself or ask your trusted butcher!
Those who are not very skilled can make larger folds and round the finished baozi by gently moving it on the work surface; in this case, they need to rise upside down.
You can vary the filling to your liking by adding grated carrots or fresh chili, for example, or you can make a vegetarian version with napa cabbage, carrots, scallions, shiitake mushrooms, boiled potato, and cilantro!
Since you bought napa cabbage, don't miss the opportunity to make another Asian delicacy: Kimchi !

