name:
Cannoli Cheesecake
ingredients:
Cannoli shells: 9oz(250 g)
Butter: ½cup(110 g)
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: 3 ¼cups(750 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.83cup(200 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(110 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 3.5oz(100 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(12 g)
Cannoli shells: 2
Almonds: to taste
Pistachios: to taste
Candied cherries: to taste
Orange peel: to taste- candied

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the time to firm up in the refrigerator

instructions:
As usual, in summer, the word oven is absolutely forbidden both in speech and in practice. So what do we do? We immediately opt for no-bake desserts! We could spend hours talking about how many easy and quick desserts there are to make, but we can't hide our latest experiment that really intrigued us. It's the Sicilian cannoli cheesecake. This dessert, also very beautiful to look at, might vaguely remind you of the beautiful cassata . Instead, this fresh dessert has the classic elements of all cheesecakes , like cookies+butter base, and the cheese cream has excellent sheep ricotta, the same used for cannoli . To complete it, we added those ingredients that everyone chooses to garnish their cannoli: chocolate chips, candied orange and cherries, almonds, and pistachios. A real delicacy! Let's see together how to make the Sicilian cannoli cheesecake recipe.
To prepare the cannoli cheesecake, let's start with the base: pour the cannoli shells into the mixer and blend them until you get very fine crumbs . Transfer them to a bowl, add the melted butter , and mix. Pour the mixture into a greased and parchment-lined 8-inch springform pan .
Evenly distribute the mix with the help of a spoon and then place the base in the freezer. Now prepare the cream: soak the gelatin sheets in cold water .
Meanwhile, sift the powdered sugar into a large bowl , then sift the sheep ricotta , add the chocolate chips
and mix everything with a spatula . Take a small portion of cream from the amount and set it aside, semi-whip the remaining cream with electric beaters and gently fold it into the cream mixture .
At this point, heat the cream in a saucepan, turn off the heat, and incorporate the gelatin, stirring well until it is completely dissolved ; let it cool for a few minutes before pouring it into the bowl . Incorporate gently again, trying not to deflate the mixture .
At this point, retrieve the mold with the shell base and distribute the cream inside , carefully level it, and then place it in the refrigerator to set for at least 3-4 hours . When the dessert has set well, remove it from the mold, remove the parchment paper, transfer it to the serving plate, and start crumbling some cannoli shells .
Then add them on top along with the pistachios and coarsely chopped almonds .
Next, add some candied cherries and orange peel , a few chocolate shavings , and your delicious Sicilian cannoli cheesecake is ready, beautiful, isn't it ?
The Sicilian cannoli cheesecake can be stored in the fridge for 2-3 days.
If needed, you can also freeze it, though it would be better to do so without the topping.
If you can't find cannoli shells, you can make them yourself by kneading 1 3/4 cups of flour, 1 1/2 tablespoons of sugar, 2 tablespoons of lard, 1 teaspoon of cocoa, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 large egg, 2 teaspoons of vinegar, and 3 tablespoons of Marsala. Knead and let the dough rest a bit before rolling it out and cutting the shells to fry or bake.
If sheep ricotta is too strong for your taste, then mix it half with cow's milk ricotta.

