name:
Pasta alla Carrettiera
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Pecorino cheese: 7oz(200 g)- (to be grated)
Parsley: 1tuft
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Coarse salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 8 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Pasta alla Carrettiera is a very tasty first course made with few and simple ingredients. The name seems to derive from Sicilian cart drivers who prepared this easily preservable dish to enjoy during their travels. Pasta alla Carrettiera has different versions, also featured in Roman cuisine and in more recent variants with the addition, for example, of mushrooms and tuna. In this recipe, we propose a seasoning of raw garlic, chili pepper, Pecorino cheese, and parsley, to mix with the spaghetti. A tantalizing and quick sauce that is prepared in the time it takes to cook the pasta. Cart Driver's Pasta will delight lovers of garlic , but rest assured even the more wary ones: raw garlic will be more digestible if you remove the inner sprout!
Also discover how to prepare Carrettiera Eggs !
To prepare Pasta alla Carrettiera, pour water into a large pot, salt to taste, and bring to a boil . Then chop a bunch of parsley and the fresh chili pepper .
Peel the garlic clove , remove the inner green sprout, and chop it ; then grate the Pecorino cheese .
In a large bowl, add the chopped garlic and chili pepper , plenty of olive oil , and salt to taste.
Mix the emulsion with a fork . Meanwhile, when the water boils, cook the spaghetti , then drain them al dente, reserving the cooking water, and toss them in the bowl with the oil, garlic, and chili pepper mixture .
Quickly mix the spaghetti and add the grated Pecorino cheese and a ladleful of cooking water .
Add the parsley , mix again , and serve the Pasta alla Carrettiera hot .
We recommend consuming Pasta alla Carrettiera immediately as it may dry out excessively.
There are several versions of Pasta alla Carrettiera: more recent ones, for example, also suggest adding mushrooms, tuna, and peeled tomatoes. You can substitute Pecorino cheese with salted ricotta. Be sure to measure the salt carefully, keeping in mind that Pecorino cheese is already very salty.

