name:
Pasta with Shrimp and Guanciale
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Shrimps: 12
Guanciale: 4.2oz(120 g)
Burrata cheese: 17.6oz(500 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 30oz(850 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Pasta with shrimp or amatriciana ? Two seemingly very different first courses that we have fused into one irresistible recipe: pasta with shrimp and guanciale! A land and sea combination that will surprise you with its balanced flavor: the saltiness of the guanciale does not overpower the sweetness of the shrimp; on the contrary, it enhances it, making the sauce rich and succulent. For the pasta shape, we couldn't choose anything other than paccheri, perfect for collecting the flavorful tomato-based sauce, while the final touch of burrata adds a fresh and creamy note... are you ready to try new delicious combinations? With pasta with shrimp and guanciale, the goodness is elevated to the maximum!
To prepare pasta with shrimp and guanciale, first cut the guanciale into thin strips , then proceed to clean the shrimp: remove the head and shell , then cut the back with the tip of a knife and gently extract the black vein.
Put a pot of water on the stove to cook the pasta, salting it when it boils. Heat a large pan and brown the guanciale for a few minutes over medium heat. When the guanciale is golden and crispy , remove it from the pan and set it aside. Add the shrimp to the same pan and briefly brown them on one side, still over medium heat . When the shrimp start to curl and become golden at the base , remove them from the pan and set them aside.
In the same pan, add the clove of garlic with a sprig of basil and let it flavor for a couple of minutes. Remove the garlic and basil from the pan, pour in the peeled tomatoes , and adjust the salt .
Cook over low heat for 30 minutes, scraping the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon so that the flavor of the cooking base blends with the sauce . At the end of cooking, add the shrimp and guanciale and turn off the heat . Meanwhile, the water will have reached a boil, so add the paccheri and cook them for 3 minutes less than the time indicated on the package .
Meanwhile, season the burrata with oil , salt, and pepper . After the cooking time, drain the paccheri in the pan with the sauce .
Turn the heat back on and toss the pasta with the sauce for the remaining 3 minutes, then turn off and season with a drizzle of oil and a grind of pepper. Finally, complete the dish by breaking the burrata directly onto the plate . Your pasta with shrimp and guanciale is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the pasta with shrimp and guanciale immediately.
You can replace the peeled tomatoes with tomato puree or fresh seasonal tomatoes.

