name:
Easy Black Cherry Ice Cream
ingredients:
Condensed milk: 1.7cups(400 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Black cherry syrup: 0.4cup(100 g)
Black cherried in syrup: to taste
Chopped almonds: 1oz(25 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: 2tbsp(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Note plus 3 hours in the freezer

instructions:
Do you want to make a delicious ice cream at home? With our easy black cherry ice cream recipe, it will be a piece of cake! You won't need an ice cream maker or any other tricks... with just 2 ingredients, you'll get a perfect base. It just takes a few minutes to whip the cream and condensed milk together, then all you have to do is transfer it to the freezer and wait! The condensed milk will give your ice cream the right sweetness and keep the mixture creamy, preventing those annoying ice crystals from forming. The easy black cherry ice cream can be prepared in advance, so you'll always have a snack ready! We chose to embellish this base with black cherry syrup and syrup-soaked black cherries, but if you're looking for an even more indulgent version that will satisfy everyone’s palate, add a shower of chocolate flakes!
To prepare the easy black cherry ice cream, pour the cream into a bowl and start whipping it with an electric whisk . When it is almost completely whipped, add the condensed milk .
and continue whipping until you get a dense and homogeneous mixture . Transfer it to a shallow and wide container, level it with a spatula , and cover with plastic wrap . Transfer to the freezer for at least 3 hours.
After the necessary time, it will have the typical consistency of ice cream. Using an ice cream scoop, scoop the ice cream and transfer it into a small cup . Add some black cherry syrup on top .
Add some chopped almonds and hazelnuts . Decorate with a couple of syrup-soaked black cherries and serve your ice cream .
The easy black cherry ice cream can be stored in the freezer for a month.
Instead of black cherry syrup, you can swirl the ice cream with another fruit syrup, chocolate, or caramel. You can also enrich it with chocolate flakes!

