name:
Pretzel
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2.7cups(340 g)
Water: 3 ¾cups(185 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Brewer's yeast: 0.07oz(2 g)
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)- (at room temperature)
Salt: to taste
Baking soda: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Water: 8 ½cups(2 l)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 5 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note plus the rising times (1 hour and a half)

instructions:
The pretzel or pretzen is a savory bread of Alsatian origin, one of the symbols of German-speaking countries and South Tyrol, known for its characteristic amber color and knotted shape, with an unmistakable flavor. The pretzel is sprinkled with salt and therefore pairs very well with beer, but it can also be flavored with anise or caraway. You often find it stacked on wooden holders shaped like a cross in local taverns and bars. Pretzels owe their characteristic "loose knot" shape to their origin: legend says it is the world's oldest snack, already popular in 610. According to the legend, pretzels were spread by monks in southern France, who rewarded boys who could memorize Bible verses with them. The name "pretzel" is said to mean reward, and their shape resembles crossed arms in a prayer position: the three characteristic holes symbolize the Trinity. Their brown color is due to a baker who, exhausted, fell asleep in front of the oven while the pretzels were baking, thus burning them. Another legend suggests that this bread was invented by a baker who was very loved by his fellow citizens but ended up in prison for perjury against the lord of the land, who promised to set him free if he could invent a bread that showed the form of the sun three times. There are various recipes for pretzels, both sweet and savory, some thin and rather crunchy, and others thicker and softer, perfect for filling with cold cuts to enjoy as sandwiches: the latter are the ones we propose. With the same dough, you can also make Pretzel buns , perfect for a burger-themed night!
To prepare the pretzels, pour the sifted flour into a stand mixer equipped with a hook attachment . Add the dry yeast and the room temperature butter .
Start working the dough by turning on the mixer at low speed, and gradually add the room temperature water . Once all the water is incorporated, let it mix for a few more minutes until you get a compact dough. Then add the salt and mix for a few more minutes at medium speed until the dough is well incorporated.
Transfer it to the work surface and shape it into a log with your hands . Use a dough scraper to cut pieces of 3.5 oz each .
You will get 5 pieces . Take the first piece and shape it into a rope about 20 inches long , tapering the ends. Fold the two ends downwards .
Then give the rope the typical "loose knot" shape. Cross the two ends and flip them inwards . Pinch the dough to attach it to the central part of the rope .
Place them on a well-floured tray and continue in this manner until all are shaped. Let them rise for 30 minutes , then refrigerate for an hour. When the hour is almost up, bring the water to a boil, and when it boils, add the baking soda .
Using a slotted spoon, transfer the first pretzel into the boiling water , wait about 30-40 seconds until they are glossy. Then drain them well and transfer them to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Make a long incision on the thicker part of the pretzel . Sprinkle with salt flakes and bake in a preheated static oven at 425°F for 20 minutes. When they are golden brown, take them out and serve.
Pretzels can be stored at room temperature for 2 days. They can be frozen after baking.

