name:
How to clean the sea bream
ingredients:
Sea bream: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Makes: pieces

instructions:
If you plan to create a recipe based on fresh fish, it is essential to know how to clean and fillet it. By following the GialloZafferano cooking school, you will learn the fundamental steps to clean and fillet so-called 'round' fish, which include sea bream, sea bass, salmon, etc. (these are most of the fish commonly consumed). You will need three tools: a fish fillet knife, a pair of kitchen scissors, and a 'scaler', a tool useful for easily removing all the fish scales. It is absolutely necessary that the fish you are about to clean and cook is fresh: to verify its freshness, before purchasing, check that the eye is vivid and has a transparent cornea, that the skin has a bright color, and that the flesh is firm to the touch.
To clean and fillet a 'round' fish like sea bream, you will need a fish fillet knife (with a very flexible and sharp blade), a pair of kitchen scissors, and a 'scaler', a tool useful for easily removing all the fish scales . If you do not have this tool, you can easily replace it with a kitchen knife. Place the fish on a cutting board and start gutting it: with the scissors, make a cut on the belly and proceed straight up to under the head , then collect the innards with your hands and remove them .
Wash the fish belly well under running water to remove any remaining traces of blood . Now remove the fins: with the scissors, first cut the side fin located near the head , then cut the caudal fin located under the belly .
then the dorsal fin . Turn the fish to the opposite side and remove the other side fin and the caudal fin .
With the appropriate scaling tool , or with the blade of a knife , carefully scale the sea bream by repeatedly passing the tool from the tail to the head (we recommend performing this operation under running water, or placing the fish in a bag, to prevent the scales from scattering everywhere). Rinse the sea bream under running water, washing it carefully on the outside as well. If you want to cook the fish whole, either in the oven or on the grill, the cleaning process ends here, and the sea bream is ready to be seasoned and cooked. If you need sea bream fillets instead, place the sea bream on the cutting board and remove the gills (located under the two semicircular openings on the sides of the head) by manually extracting them .
With the fish fillet knife, cut the head and remove it , then cut the tail and the dorsal part of the fish along the spine , starting from the top, and proceed by moving the blade horizontally to the work surface to obtain the first fillet .
Now separate the two halves of the fish . Proceed in the same way, detaching the flesh from the bone to get the second fillet (be careful not to remove too much flesh in the process) . Remove any remaining bones using tweezers (help yourself by running a hand over the flesh to locate them), then remove the skin carefully with the knife, to avoid wasting the fish's flesh. Your sea bream fillets are ready to be cooked!
You can store sea bream fillets in the refrigerator for up to one day, sealed in an airtight container. It is possible to freeze the sea bream fillets: place them on a sheet of parchment paper and harden them in the freezer for an hour, then transfer them to a transparent freezer bag and re-freeze them; this way, you will prevent them from sticking to the bag.
If you want to make a fish broth, you can keep the head and the central bone of the sea bream; they will be useful to add extra flavor. Here are some tasty recipes to use sea bream: Mediterranean Sea Bream Baked Sea Bream Foil baked sea bream

