name:
Ice Cream Cookie Cake
ingredients:
Butter: (150 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 4oz(110 g)- (about 2)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 0.3cup(25 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(5 g)
Fiordilatte gelato: 3 ¼cups(750 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 3.5oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note plus the rest times for the shortcrust pastry and the cooling times for the cake.

instructions:
Are you organizing a party for your Birthday cake but don't know which dessert to choose? Do you prefer to avoid sponge cake with cream-based toppings and classic cream fillings and opt for something fresher? Last year, we proposed a Summer birthday cake with fresh fruit and cheese; today, we want to propose an original and very delicious idea, perfect for summer but also as a delicious semi-frozen dessert for all seasons: the ice cream cookie cake! Two giant cocoa shortcrust pastry discs enclose a filling of vanilla ice cream and chocolate chips, which you can obviously customize to your taste... vanilla, pistachio, chocolate , or you can opt for our Oreo® cake or the Semi-frozen cake !
To prepare the ice cream cookie cake, first start making the shortcrust pastry. Sift the flour, baking powder, and cocoa into a bowl. Then add the cold butter cubes and work it with your fingertips until you get a sandy mixture. Then add the sugar and mix everything together.
Finally, add the eggs and quickly knead everything. Then transfer the mixture to a surface and work it quickly, just until it becomes compact .
At this point, wrap the cocoa shortcrust pastry in plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. Then take the dough, transfer it to a floured surface , and roll it out with a rolling pin to a thickness of 1/2 inch.
Using a 9-inch round cutter, cut out a pastry disc and transfer it to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Gather the scraps and quickly work them to compact them . Then roll out the dough again
and cut out another disc, always using a 9-inch round cutter . Place the disc on the baking sheet and let it rest in the refrigerator for about 10 minutes. Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 15 minutes on the middle rack. Once baked, remove the cookie discs and let them cool completely.
Only when they are completely cool, transfer the ice cream to a bowl, add the chocolate chips , and quickly work to make it uniform, without letting it melt . Then place one of the two discs on a serving plate; place the 9-inch round cutter on the outside and pour the ice cream inside . Level with a spoon to get an even thickness.
Finish the cake with the second cookie disc, pressing it lightly with your hands , and place it in the freezer for about 3 hours. After this time, take it out of the freezer and let it sit at room temperature for a couple of minutes . Gently remove the ring and if necessary, trim the edges with the back of a spoon.
Dust the surface with unsweetened cocoa powder (22-23) and serve your ice cream cookie cake .
Store the ice cream cookie cake in the freezer and consume it within 15-20 days. Before serving, let it sit at room temperature for 5-10 minutes.
Use chocolate ice cream and enrich it with white chocolate chips. Alternatively, you can use hazelnut or pistachio granules instead of chips.

