name:
Vegan Raspberry Cake
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Oat milk: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 4.8tbsp(70 g)
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Raspberries: 2 ½cups(375 g)
Type 0 flour: 2spoonfuls
Sunflower seed oil: to taste
Type 0 flour: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
The vegan raspberry cake is a soft dessert, perfect for breakfast or an afternoon snack. Making it is really simple; it will take just a few minutes to prepare this batter, made with Homemade oat milk and seed oil instead of butter. Inside, you'll find many raspberries that, thanks to a simple trick, will remain well distributed in the dessert without sinking to the bottom. And to transform it into a dessert to serve after dinner, just add a scoop of your favorite flavored ice cream.
Here are more vegan recipes you shouldn't miss:
To prepare the vegan raspberry cake, first wash the raspberries well and set them aside. Move on to the batter. In a bowl, pour the flour, the sugar , a pinch of salt , and the grated zest of one lemon .
Mix the dry ingredients , then pour in the seed oil and the oat milk .
Mix well with a whisk until you get a smooth, lump-free mixture. Add the sifted baking powder to the batter and mix with a spatula .
Pour 2 tablespoons of flour into the bowl with the raspberries and mix, then remove the excess flour by shaking them with a sieve . Add the raspberries to the batter .
Mix gently to incorporate them without breaking them . Then transfer the batter to a 9-inch springform pan previously greased with oil and floured .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 45 minutes. Check with a toothpick and remove the cake from the oven . Let it cool completely, then transfer the vegan raspberry cake to a plate and dust with powdered sugar before serving it !
The vegan raspberry cake can be stored at room temperature for up to a couple of days, under a glass dome.
Flouring the raspberries prevents them from settling at the bottom of the cake.
Instead of raspberries, you can use the same amount of blackberries, or mix the two fruits.
Instead of oat milk, you can use soy milk, which will allow the batter to bind better.

