name:
Spaghetti with Bottarga and Breadcrumbs
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Mullet Bottarga: 1oz(25 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Shallot: 1.2oz(35 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Breadcrumbs: ¼cup(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
How to transform a simple first course into a tasty and original recipe? Spaghetti with bottarga and breadcrumbs is exactly the dish to rely on. A rather simple preparation, the sauce is made while the pasta is cooking. The spaghetti with bottarga is enhanced with a breadcrumb mixture that will add even more flavor to this dish. Bottarga is a prized food, made from mullet (gray mullet) or tuna eggs, subjected to a long process of salting and drying. It is a unique product in the world and at the same time a little culinary 'luxury' to reserve for a special lunch or dinner, to be accompanied by a simple yet refined second course like baked salmon . Discover also these recipes with bottarga:
To prepare spaghetti with bottarga and breadcrumbs, first peel the lemon to obtain only the yellow part , then cut it into strips . Then clean and finely chop the shallot: you will need about 1.25 oz. Next, prepare the breadcrumb mixture by pouring the extra virgin olive oil into a pan along with the breadcrumbs .
Let it toast for a few minutes . As soon as they are well toasted, set aside . At this point, put a pot of water on the stove for the pasta and let it come to a boil. When it boils, do not salt too much, because the bottarga is already very salty. Meanwhile, in a pan, pour the oil and add the chopped shallot , let it flavor over low heat for 2-3 minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent it from burning.
Then let the lemon peels flavor for a few moments . Take a ladle of hot water, pour it into the pan with the sauce and continue cooking for another 10 minutes . At this point, plunge the pasta into the barely salted boiling water .
Halfway through cooking, drain the spaghetti directly into the pan with the sauce, keeping the cooking water aside : you will need it to 'risotto' the pasta in the pan and complete the cooking, adding water as needed . Meanwhile, with a small knife, remove the outer coating of the bottarga and when the pasta is cooked, grate it directly into the pan using a coarse grater .
Add the breadcrumb mixture, keeping some aside to garnish individual plates , finally mix and turn off the heat . Your spaghetti with bottarga is ready , enjoy your meal!
It is recommended to consume this dish immediately. Freezing is not recommended. Bottarga can be stored for several weeks in the least cold part of the refrigerator, wrapped in aluminum foil.
If you want to try something more tantalizing instead of the breadcrumb mixture, try toasting some chopped almonds in a pan!

