name:
Pistachio Tart with Yogurt Namelaka Cream
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Pistachio flour: 2tbsp(25 g)
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- soft
Powdered sugar: ½cup(70 g)
Eggs: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Fresh liquid cream: 1.4cups(330 g)- cold
White chocolate: 8.5oz(240 g)
Whole milk: 0.6cup(150 g)
Natural plain yogurt: ½cup(105 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Acacia honey: 1tsp
Pistachio flour: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- softened
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Eggs: 2
Cornstarch: 2tsp(10 g)
Raspberries: 2 ½cups(375 g)
Raspberry jam: 1.3cups(300 g)
Pistachio cream: to taste- pure
Ground pistachio: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + cooling times for the pastry (at least 2 h) and the namelaka (about 8 h)

instructions:
Beautiful, delicious, and guaranteed to be a hit... the pistachio tart with yogurt namelaka cream is a joy for both the eyes and the palate! A tart that combines many different preparations, starting with the pistachio shortcrust base and ending with the decoration of Namelaka , the white version of the classic chocolate cream that has been enriched with yogurt in this case. But it doesn't end there: in the center, you'll find two layers of raspberry jam and a layer of Frangipane cream in the pistachio variant, embellished with fresh raspberries. If you love the taste of these ingredients, you'll adore how they blend together bite after bite in this fabulous pistachio tart with yogurt namelaka cream!
Did namelaka and frangipane win you over? Try these sweets as well:
To make the pistachio tart with yogurt namelaka cream, start by preparing the namelaka: first, soak the gelatin in cold water and melt the white chocolate in a double boiler or microwave. Heat the milk and honey in a saucepan . As soon as it reaches a simmer, turn off the heat, add the squeezed gelatin , and stir to dissolve it completely . Set aside for a moment.
In a separate bowl, mix the yogurt with the melted chocolate , then add the still-warm milk in several additions , blending well with a spatula .
Lastly, add the cold heavy cream in a thin stream and emulsify with an immersion blender . Cover with plastic wrap in contact with the surface and let it set in the refrigerator for at least 8 hours .
Move on to the pastry: put the soft butter and powdered sugar in a bowl and blend with a spatula , then add the egg and mix again to incorporate it. Don't worry if it looks grainy.
At this point, add the salt , the all-purpose flour , and the pistachio flour .
Quickly knead the mixture first in the bowl and then on the work surface to achieve a compact and homogeneous consistency, being careful to handle the dough as little as possible. Slightly flatten the dough, wrap it in plastic wrap, and let it set in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours (preferably overnight) .
After the resting time, roll out the dough on a lightly floured surface to a thickness of about 1/8 inch . Cut the dough with a ring mold with a diameter of 8.5 inches and a height of 1.2 inches , then cut strips from the remaining dough slightly wider than the height of the ring .
Transfer the base along with the ring onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper (or a perforated baking mat) and prick the base. Line the sides with the strips , then gently press with your fingers to adhere them to the base. Trim the excess dough with a knife and refrigerate everything while you continue with the recipe .
Prepare the frangipane cream: put the soft butter and powdered sugar in a bowl and blend with a spatula , then add one egg at a time, mixing with a whisk to incorporate them without whipping.
Add the pistachio flour , salt, and cornstarch , then incorporate the dry ingredients with the whisk . Transfer the cream to a piping bag and set aside.
Now retrieve the pastry and spread a thin layer of strained raspberry jam on the base , then add the frangipane cream .
Spread the cream evenly with a spatula up to a few millimeters from the edge , then embed the raspberries by pressing gently . Bake in a preheated fan oven at 320°F for 30 minutes .
After baking, remove the tart from the oven and let it cool . Retrieve the yogurt namelaka from the refrigerator and soften it with an electric mixer , then transfer it to a piping bag .
When the tart is cool, spread a thin layer of raspberry jam on top , then cover everything with dollops of namelaka and garnish with some fresh raspberries .
Finish the decoration with dots of pistachio cream and chopped pistachios . Your pistachio tart with yogurt namelaka cream is ready to be served !
The pistachio tart with yogurt namelaka can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze it after baking, without the namelaka.
Prepare the pastry and namelaka the day before.
If you prefer, you can make the pastry with a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, following the same procedure.
You can replace the raspberries (both the jam and fresh fruits) with blueberries or blackberries, making sure to choose a jam with a sufficiently acidic note to balance the sweetness of the white chocolate.

