name:
Tagliatelle with Squid and Cherry Tomatoes
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3
Calamari (squid): 1.1lbs(500 g)- already cleaned
Cherry tomatoes: 2 ¾cups(400 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Capers in oil: 0.4oz(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note plus the resting time for fresh pasta (30 minutes)

instructions:
All pasta shapes go well with seafood, but have you ever tried pairing it with fresh pasta ? Tagliatelle with squid and tomatoes is a truly surprising dish! Perfect for preparing for a Sunday lunch, when you have more time to dedicate to cooking. Making the tagliatelle is not complicated, but for a perfect result, you mustn't rush and try to be as precise as possible! Preparing the sauce, on the other hand, will only take a few minutes of cooking, just enough to keep the squid tender and not rubbery. Prepare this main course yourself and discover how delicious it is, bite after bite.
Here are some other seafood first courses not to be missed:
To prepare tagliatelle with squid and cherry tomatoes, start with the fresh pasta. Pour the flour into a bowl (hold back a bit of the amount to add if needed). Create a well and add room temperature eggs in the center . Work with a fork and as soon as the eggs have absorbed some flour, continue kneading by hand until you obtain a homogeneous dough .
Continue to knead the dough on a lightly floured surface for at least 10-15 minutes until you achieve a smooth and elastic consistency. Handle with energy but avoid tearing the gluten structure. Then form a ball and wrap it in plastic wrap . Let the dough rest at room temperature for at least 30 minutes. After resting, divide the dough into three parts to roll it out more easily.
Carefully flour one part and flatten it, keep the other two portions wrapped in plastic so they don't dry out. Take the pasta machine and set it to thickness no. 1, that is, the maximum thickness, and pass the dough between the rollers to obtain a first rather thick sheet, then fold the two edges of the sheet towards the center to give it a more regular shape, then lightly flour it and pass it through the rollers again, continuing in this way several times until reaching thickness no. 8 . Lay the obtained sheet on a floured work surface, trim the edges with a scraper (or knife) to make the pasta regular, then divide it into two parts to handle it more easily. Pass it through the pasta machine again at thickness 8 because it will have slightly retracted in working it. Sprinkle it with a bit of semolina on both sides and let the sheets dry for 5 minutes per side.
Now take a sheet, fold one edge up to about two-thirds then begin to roll creating a very flat roll, keeping the closure upwards . Cut the pasta roll into 7 mm thick strips .
Grab the tagliatelle by the ends, lay the tagliatelle on your hand , then roll around your fingers to create a nest and lay it on the lightly floured work surface. Continue until you've finished all the dough .
Make sure the squid is well cleaned, cut the mantle into strips and the tentacles into pieces . Wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them into quarters . Put a pot full of water on the heat, lightly salted, which will be used for cooking the pasta.
Now take a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, and add the garlic. Heat for a couple of minutes, then add the squid and brown them for about 4-5 minutes over high heat, stirring often . At this point, remove the garlic .
Add the chopped cherry tomatoes , salt, and pepper. Also add the capers and let it cook for another 5-6 minutes.
Cook the pasta, in the water that should now be boiling for 3-4 minutes . Drain the pasta, reserving the cooking water, and transfer it to the sauce . Add a ladle of cooking water and mix well.
Finally, add the chopped parsley and a drizzle of oil. Toss the tagliatelle and serve them piping hot !
We recommend consuming the tagliatelle immediately.
If you prefer, you can add a chopped mix of black olives in addition to the capers.

