name:
Shrimp Tartare with Caramelized Citrus Zest
ingredients:
Shrimps: 1.1lbs(480 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Orange juice: ½
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Salt: to taste- Cyprus black
Lemon peel: 1.8oz(50 g)
Orange peel: 1.8oz(50 g)
Sugar: 3 ¼tbsp(40 g)
Lemon juice: to taste
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
There are many ways to prepare a good tartare , whether it is meat or fish! This season, we propose to make shrimp tartare with caramelized citrus zest, an elegant and at the same time delicious variant. What makes this dish so special is precisely the caramelized zest of the citrus fruits: oranges and lemons will give a unique aroma and a taste that perfectly complements the shrimp tartare, a mixture seasoned only with salt and oil. A quick and very simple fish recipe that will allow you to impress your guests even if you are not a great expert in the kitchen... just a few ingredients will be enough to prepare this exquisite dish, perfect to serve as an appetizer for a summer fish-based dinner! Here are other tartare recipes to try:
To prepare the shrimp tartare with caramelized citrus zest, first, take care of cleaning the shrimp. Shell them and remove the black vein located on the back . Continue this way until they are all done .
Chop the shrimp finely with a knife . Transfer them to a bowl . In the meantime, use a vegetable peeler to take the peel from the lemon and the orange .
Squeeze the juice from both and strain it directly into the tartare . Add a pinch of salt .
Mix well , cover with plastic wrap , and transfer to the refrigerator. Now proceed to caramelize the citrus zest. In a small pot, pour the water and sugar .
Add a few drops of lemon juice and bring to a boil. Then add the zest and cook until the water has evaporated and they are caramelized .
Take the tartare back, season it with a drizzle of oil , and plate it using a round mold. Place the caramelized zest on top and serve it .
We recommend serving the tartare immediately.
We recommend using the shrimp scraps to make a bisque or a shellfish stock .

