name:
Octopus Salad with Potatoes and Onions
ingredients:
Octopus: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Potatoes: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Red Tropea onions: 1
White wine vinegar: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Lemon juice: ½

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Only 3 ingredients for an out-of-this-world seafood salad: octopus, potatoes, and onions. Its strength? The simplicity of enjoying the ingredients in their pure form, in all their genuineness! Octopus and potatoes are a winning duo, the protagonists of the famous warm salad among the most loved in our Mediterranean cuisine. We have refined this dish with the delicate and sweet-and-sour notes of Tropea onions which are briefly blanched in water and vinegar. To add flavor, we chose a special parsley sauce that echoes the traditional aromatic notes in a more gourmet form! All that's left is for you to try this recipe and discover other variations on the theme:
And if you're looking for a first course, try our Galician Style Octopus Pasta !
To prepare octopus salad with potatoes and onions, boil plenty of water in a pot. Rinse the octopus well under running water. Immerse it in the boiling salted water up to the tentacles, then lift it up and down several times to make it curl . Then immerse it completely and cook for about an hour (50 minutes may be enough). Check the doneness by piercing the part near the head where the tentacles join with a fork: if the fork goes in easily, the octopus is ready! Meanwhile, also boil the potatoes with the skin on for 30-40 minutes, checking the doneness by piercing them with a fork . Then peel the onions .
Thinly slice it into julienne strips . Boil a small pot of water with salt and a little vinegar . Add the onions .
Cook for one minute , then drain and set aside. Remove the stems from the parsley. Boil it for a few seconds in water .
Drain, cool by immersing in cold water (with ice if available), so it will retain a nice bright color. Drain well and pour into the immersion blender jar, add oil, blend with the immersion mixer , add the lemon juice , and blend again to combine.
Adjust the seasoning with salt and set the sauce aside . Once the potatoes are cooked, peel them and cut them into cubes of about 3/4 inch .
By this time, the octopus should be cooked: drain it and let it rest for about ten minutes before cutting it. Separate the head from the body of the octopus and cut the head into pieces of about 3/4 inch, divide the body in half and remove the beak. Remove the part with the eyes. Separate the tentacles one by one .
Cut the tentacles into pieces of about 3/4 inch . Combine the octopus salad. Combine the octopus, potatoes, and onions in a bowl, and dress with the parsley sauce. Serve and enjoy the octopus salad with potatoes and onions warm or cold .
Store the octopus salad with potatoes and onions in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
2.2 lbs of octopus cooks in about 1 hour; for smaller pieces, adjust the cooking times accordingly.
It is recommended to clean the octopus after cooking; if you prefer, you can remove the skin at this stage.
The octopus cooking water can be used to make mayonnaise: let it cool, strain it, and emulsify with an immersion blender, adding vegetable oil (or extra virgin olive oil) depending on the desired taste: more delicate or more intense.

