name:
Semolina Pizza
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Fresh brewer's yeast: 2tsp(10 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 3 ½cups(400 g)
Water: 1cup(280 g)
Fine salt: 1tbsp(15 g)
Tomato purée: 0.85cup(200 g)
Pizza mozzarella cheese: 10.6oz(300 g)
Prosciutto crudo: to taste
Arugula: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low
Note + rising times (about 5 hours)

instructions:
Craving pizza ? Today we show you how to prepare semolina pizza, a truly special dough that will give you a unique softness and a delightful crispy crust! But what's the secret to achieving such a pizza? Definitely the poolish, a pre-dough that, by maturing, will give the dough truly unique characteristics. And then the semolina, which will give it a rustic touch and that extra crunchiness that we already experienced in the bread recipe. And if you love doughs with semolina, also try our Semolina Focaccia with Sourdough Starter or the Barese focaccia !
Discover more delicious Pizza recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the semolina pizza, start with the pre-dough, or poolish. Pour the water into a bowl and add the fresh yeast . Dissolve it by stirring , then add the manitoba flour and mix until you get a homogeneous mixture.
Cover with plastic wrap and let it ferment for 2 hours. After this time, take the poolish and transfer it to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a hook .
Add the water and the semolina flour , then knead for about ten minutes until you get a smooth and well-incorporated mixture .
Then add the salt and work for another 5 minutes or so, until it is well absorbed . The bowl should be clean and the dough incorporated. Turn off the machine and dampen your hands to gently remove the dough from the hook. Then transfer the mixture to a surface, using a dough scraper .
Give the dough a couple of folds , then divide the mixture in half and shape the 2 portions into balls . Always use the dough scraper, without adding flour.
Transfer to 2 bowls , cover with plastic wrap and let rise for at least 2 hours, or until doubled in size. You can keep them at room temperature, away from drafts and temperature changes. Using the dough scraper, transfer each ball to a 16 inch baking sheet, previously oiled, but not too much .
Roll out the dough with slightly oiled hands, starting from the center , to fill the entire baking sheet and have a thicker edge. If the dough shrinks, let it rest for a couple of minutes and roll it out again. Let the 2 pizzas rise for another hour . Season the tomato sauce with salt and oil .
Then use it to season the surface of the pizza and bake in a preheated static oven at 430°F (220°C) for 10 minutes on the lowest rack. Meanwhile, cut the mozzarella into strips . Remove the pizza from the oven, add the mozzarella and bake again for another 10 minutes.
When the mozzarella has melted, remove the semolina pizza from the oven , top with prosciutto and arugula . Serve it while still hot and in the meantime, bake the second pizza!
We recommend consuming the semolina pizza immediately. Alternatively, you can store it in the fridge for a day and reheat it before serving. If you prefer to freeze it, bake the pizza base with the tomato sauce. Then let it cool and freeze it. When you want to eat it, just add the mozzarella cubes and bake the pizza again.
If you don't have a stand mixer, you can also knead by hand, using the same process. If you want to serve the two pizzas together, bake them one at a time only with the tomato sauce. Then add the mozzarella and bake them together until it melts.

