name:
Spaghetti with Arugula, Bell Peppers, and Stracciatella
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Yellow peppers: 7.1oz(200 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 0.5lb(100 g)
Stracciatella cheese: ¾cup(200 g)
Leeks: 1.1oz(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Arugula: 2.1oz(60 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Pine nuts: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Whole peeled hazelnuts: 0.5oz(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)
Garlic: ½clove

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The sweetness of the bell peppers, the bitterness of the arugula, and the freshness of the stracciatella blend together in a delightful and colorful first course: spaghetti with arugula, bell peppers, and stracciatella! A tasty vegetarian idea with a velvety sauce, perfect for long pasta shapes. The arugula pesto wraps the spaghetti in a bold flavor embrace, sweetened by the encounter with the yellow bell pepper and cherry tomato cream . Thanks to the delicate touch of the dairy, each forkful of pasta is a triumph of flavors... try the spaghetti with arugula, bell peppers, and stracciatella and let us know what you think!
Discover more delicious Spaghetti recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the spaghetti with arugula, bell peppers, and stracciatella, first of all, prepare the arugula pesto: put the washed and dried arugula in a bowl, then add the pine nuts and hazelnuts . Also add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP and the oil .
Finally, add half a clove of garlic without the core , salt, and pepper. Blend with an immersion blender to obtain a creamy consistency .
Set the pesto aside and prepare the vegetables: slice the bell peppers in half, remove the seeds and inner filaments, and cut them into strips . Cut the cherry tomatoes into quarters , then clean the leek and slice it into rings .
In a large pan, sauté the leek with a drizzle of oil , then add the bell peppers and the cherry tomatoes .
Cook over medium heat for about 12 minutes, adding a little water if needed , then season with salt and pepper . Transfer the sauce to a bowl and blend with an immersion blender .
After blending the sauce , strain the puree using a spatula to remove the skins and make it smooth and homogeneous .
In the meantime, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the spaghetti . Drain the pasta al dente in a bowl and add the arugula pesto , diluting it with a little cooking water and mixing well to combine .
You're ready to plate: spread a base of bell pepper cream on the plate , then place a nest of pasta on top and finally garnish with a tuft of stracciatella. Serve your spaghetti with arugula, bell peppers, and stracciatella immediately !
It is recommended to consume the spaghetti with arugula, bell peppers, and stracciatella immediately.
The arugula pesto can be stored for 2-3 days in the refrigerator in an airtight jar covered with a layer of oil. Alternatively, you can freeze it in small jars and thaw it in the refrigerator or at room temperature.
If you prefer, you can omit the garlic from the arugula pesto. Additionally, you can replace pine nuts and hazelnuts with almonds or walnuts.
Straining the bell pepper cream makes it more digestible and delicate.

