name:
Low-Cost Fish Pasta
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Squills (Mantis shrimps): 1.1lbs(500 g)
Sardines: 5.3oz(150 g)- (already cleaned, butterflied)
Anchovies: 5.3oz(150 g)- (cleaned, butterflied)
Red mullet: 2- (scaled and gutted)
Datterino tomatoes: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Taggiasca olives: 2spoonfuls
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Datterino tomatoes: 6
Fresh scallion: 1
Tomato paste: 1spoonful
Dry white wine: ½glass
Ice: to taste
Water: to taste- cold

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Don't be misled by the name... low-cost fish pasta is an incredibly rich-tasting dish! Red mullets, anchovies, and sardines are part of the so-called blue fish and are a true concentrate of nutritional properties. To enhance the sea flavor of these ingredients, we prepared a base with the scraps which is used to finish cooking the spaghetti: this way you will get a creamy and enveloping sauce, perfect for long pasta shapes. The addition of mantis shrimp, finally, gives a touch of sweetness thanks to their tender and delicate flesh. Follow our instructions for cleaning the fish, or get help from your trusted fishmonger, and delight yourself with our recipe for low-cost fish pasta!
After trying the spaghetti with poor fish, also discover these tasty seafood first courses:
To make low-cost fish pasta, start by cleaning the red mullets: cut with the knife under the head and above the tail , then pass the blade over the bone along the belly on both sides and finally remove the obtained fillets . Do the same on the other side. Ensure that the head and tail remain attached to the central bone and keep the scraps that you will need later for the base.
Trim the fillets and remove the bones with kitchen tweezers, using your fingers to locate them . Lastly, cut the cleaned fillets into chunks .
Move on to How to clean mantis shrimp : with a pair of scissors, cut the ends of the tail to form a triangle , then make cuts along the sides and remove the shell .
Extract the flesh, taking care to leave it whole , and keep the scraps aside. Now you can prepare the base: clean the spring onion and cut it into chunks , then cut the cherry tomatoes in half .
In a pot, pour a drizzle of oil, the spring onion, and the cherry tomatoes , then add the tomato paste and toast over high heat for a few minutes . At this point, add the red mullet and mantis shrimp scraps that you set aside . Toast for another 3-5 minutes over high heat, crushing the scraps well with a ladle to release all the juices.
When it begins to stick to the bottom of the pot, deglaze with the white wine and scrape the bottom well with the ladle. Wait until the alcohol evaporates completely, then add ice and cold water and lower the heat: the drop in temperature will allow the flavors to be extracted better . Simmer gently for about 30 minutes, taking care to remove any foam that may surface due to impurities. Meanwhile, take care of the other fish by removing the ends of the sardines and anchovies, already cleaned and opened like a book .
Cut the anchovies and sardines into chunks the same size as the red mullets and set aside .
After the base has cooked , strain it through a sieve lined with wet paper towel (or cheesecloth) to remove all residues . Keep the base aside and bring a pot of water to a boil to cook the pasta.
To prepare the sauce, cut the smaller cherry tomatoes in half and the larger ones into quarters . In a saucepan, sauté a crushed garlic clove and a chili pepper with a drizzle of oil , then add the cherry tomatoes .
Sauté over high heat, then add the olives . When the cherry tomatoes begin to wilt, pour in the base and continue cooking to reduce it further .
Meanwhile, the water will have come to a boil, so salt it and add the spaghetti . Drain the spaghetti 4 minutes before the end of the cooking time and transfer them to the pan with the sauce . Finish cooking the pasta in the pan, using a ladle of its water .
After a couple of minutes, add the sardines, anchovies , and red mullets . At the end of cooking, add the mantis shrimp, which will cook in a very short time .
Remove the pan from the heat and scent with chopped parsley , then toss the pasta by pouring oil while mixing; in this way, it will be shiny and creamy . Plate and serve your low-cost fish pasta immediately !
It is advisable to consume the low-cost fish pasta immediately.
We did not use the scraps of sardines and anchovies because they would give the base a too strong flavor.

