name:
Blackberry Tart with White Chocolate Ganache
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Almond flour: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Butter: (150 g)
Sugar: 0.63cup(150 g)
Eggs: 1.75oz(50 g)- (about 1 medium)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: ½tsp(2 g)
White chocolate: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Blackberry jam: 0.6cup(150 g)
Blackberries: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + cooling times (about 2 h total)

instructions:
Do you prefer dark chocolate or white chocolate? If you're in the latter category, this is the perfect dessert to satisfy your sweet tooth: the blackberry tart with white chocolate ganache! A lemon-flavored almond shortcrust base holds a delicious filling made with a layer of Blackberry Jam covered with a generous layer of White chocolate ganache . The fresh blackberries used for decoration not only add a contrasting note to the white color of this cake but also balance its sweetness with a slight hint of acidity.
After tasting the blackberry tart with white ganache, don't miss out on these delicious blackberry desserts:
To make the blackberry tart with white chocolate ganache, start with the shortcrust pastry: in a bowl, mix the butter, sugar , lemon zest , and salt , then work with your hands until the sugar is absorbed.
At this point, add the egg and mix again to combine. Add the all-purpose flour and almond flour and continue to mix, then add the baking powder .
Mix in the bowl to incorporate the dry ingredients evenly , then transfer the mixture onto a sheet of plastic wrap and flatten it to form a dough . Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for about an hour .
After the resting time, lightly flour the pastry and roll it out to a thickness of 1/8 inch . Cut out a disc with a diameter of 9 1/2 inches and strips with a width of 1 1/4 inches .
Use the disc and strips to line the base and sides of a mold of the same size (diameter 9 1/2 inches, height 1 1/4 inches), then trim off the excess pastry . Spread a layer of blackberry jam on the base, being careful not to dirty the edges . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 20 minutes. When the pastry is golden, remove it from the oven and let it cool .
In the meantime, prepare the ganache: heat the cream and grated lemon zest in a saucepan . Meanwhile, finely chop the white chocolate . When the cream comes to a boil, remove the saucepan from the heat and add the finely chopped white chocolate .
Mix well with a whisk to melt it completely . Take the tart and pour the ganache over the layer of jam , then place it in the refrigerator for an hour or in the freezer for 15-20 minutes .
After the setting time, decorate the tart by arranging the fresh blackberries in concentric circles to cover the entire ganache , then sprinkle with powdered sugar . Your blackberry tart with white chocolate ganache is ready to be served !
The blackberry tart with white chocolate ganache can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you wish, you can flavor the cream for the ganache with 1 1/3 oz of fresh thyme leaves, letting it infuse in the refrigerator for 12 hours; then strain the cream and proceed with the recipe. This way, you will give your blackberry tart an even more special touch!
You can re-knead the leftover pastry and use it to make cookies or tartlets.

