name:
Roman Pinsa
ingredients:
Pinsa flour: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.25oz(7 g)
Water: 3 ¼cups(750 g)- (chilled from the fridge)
Fine salt: 1tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the rising times (more than 24 hours). You can choose the toppings you prefer.

instructions:
Pizza , focaccia , flatbread , bread ... the only one missing was her: the Roman pinsa! The pinsa is a delicious recent invention, a successful leavened bread that has been trending in restaurants and bakeries, in the Capital and beyond! It is a very hydrated dough, with long fermentation (you will need to be patient, and the more patient you are, the better the result will be!), made with a special flour mix: durum wheat flour, rice flour, and soy flour. It is given an oval shape, pre-cooked, and then topped as desired... the legendary and timeless Margherita ? Broccoli and sausage for gourmets? Parmigiana for the ravenous, or a gourmet version with mortadella, pistachio, and...? The choice is yours, the more flavors you have, the more enjoyable it will be to share the pinsa at the table!
Also try: Roman pizza and white Roman pizza , a specialty with mortadella!
Before starting the pinsa dough, the water needs to be refrigerated: it must be very cold. In a large bowl, pour the pinsa flour, then the crumbled fresh yeast. Gradually pour in 24.6 oz of water and mix with a spoon until fully absorbed. Transfer the dough to a work surface, without flouring, and start kneading . Do not worry if the dough seems very rough initially.
Do not rush, and you will see that handling the dough will become smoother and more compact . Transfer the dough to a bowl and make 3 incisions with a knife : this operation helps the absorption of the other ingredients to be added.
Then add the salt , the oil , and the remaining 1.8 oz of cold water, which should be added gradually , while continuing to knead.
Continue to knead manually in the bowl for a few minutes to ensure proper absorption. You can also transfer to the work surface and give some reinforcement folds if you prefer. The dough will already be smoother. To make it even smoother, you can leave it in the bowl covered with a kitchen cloth for 15 minutes. After the indicated time
sprinkle the work surface with a little pinsa flour. Turn the dough onto the surface and make folds as follows: take the edge of the dough and bring it towards the center . You will see the dough start to become smoother . Then flip it and form a ball, rolling it on the surface to seal the closure well .
Transfer the dough back to a bowl, this time oiled. Cover with plastic wrap and leave at room temperature until it doubles in size, about 2 hours. Then, transfer to the fridge for 24 to 48 hours. When you take it out, it will be very puffed and airy . Prepare a bowl with some semolina. Then, with slightly damp hands, take portions of dough weighing 8.8-10.6 oz. You will need to do this by "choking" the dough. Lift a part of the dough from below with one hand and cut it with the other, almost like mozzarella .
Transfer each piece of dough with the smooth side onto the semolina, then close each dough ball: make a fold by bringing the edge closest to you towards the center of the dough, repeat the same operation with the opposite edge, then pinch as if to create a seam with your thumb and index finger . Then turn the dough ball 180°, and again, fold the lower edge towards the center, fold the upper one, and close again by pinching with your fingers. Take the sealed portion, flip it onto the work surface, and rotate with both hands , using rotational movements towards you to ensure the part sealed with your thumb and index finger closes even better. Place the dough ball on a tray, with the smooth side facing up. Continue in this way for the others; you can use containers for rising or large baking dishes that you can seal well with plastic wrap. The portions should not be too close . It will take about 3-4 hours at room temperature for them to double in size.
When it is almost time to roll out and bake the pinsas, you can prepare the ingredients for the topping. We will show you how to make the "parmigiana" topping. Wash and slice the eggplants , then cut them into cubes and coat them in flour, then remove the excess flour by sifting .
Fry in hot oil (at 338°F measured with a kitchen thermometer) until golden. Then drain them onto a tray lined with paper towels . Prepare the tomato sauce by adding only a drizzle of oil and salt (if you like and to taste), then cut the mozzarella into strips. If you want to bake the pinsa so that it is crispy outside and soft inside, you can use a baking stone and heat it in the oven (in grill mode at maximum heat) for 1 hour.
After the final rising time of the dough balls, take one and place it on a work surface sprinkled with plenty of semolina. Sprinkle semolina on the surface as well . Starting from the edge closest to you and moving up, or the top edge moving down, gently press with your fingers to flatten the dough. You should press with your fingers almost parallel to the work surface , gradually distributing the air across the dough. Give it a rectangular, oval shape as much as possible. While lifting the dough gently, try to remove excess semolina .
Transfer to a peel lightly sprinkled with semolina and shape it further into an oval, about 13-14 inches long and 8-9 inches wide . Bake for about 7-8 minutes in grill mode at maximum power, placing the pinsa on the baking stone : this is the pre-cooking .
Top your pinsas as you like. For the "parmigiana" topping, add the tomato sauce first, then mozzarella slices, then fried eggplants , and then bake again for 2-3 minutes still in grill mode, until the mozzarella melts (adjust the time according to your oven if necessary). Finish with grated ricotta and basil leaves . Serve your Roman pinsa.
You can store the pinsas for 1 day in the refrigerator in an airtight container and reheat as needed.
You can also prepare your own mix by blending durum wheat flour, rice flour, and soy flour... keep trying to find the right balance for a dough that can handle high hydration and long fermentation!
If you want to leave the dough in the fridge for 48 hours, you should halve the yeast amount.
If you do not have a baking stone, you can use a regular baking sheet.

