name:
Roasted Tomato Pasta with Eggplants and Zucchini
ingredients:
Whole wheat Fusilli pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Goat: to taste
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cluster tomatoes: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Garlic: - half head
Fine salt: to taste
Eggplant: 1
Zucchini: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
The roasted tomato pasta with eggplants and zucchini is a summer first course that is really delicious! The oven-cooked tomatoes turn into a creamy sauce that perfectly coats the fusilli, while the other roasted vegetables add additional color and flavor. The bold touch of garlic is balanced by the freshness of goat cheese, and the aroma of basil enhances every single ingredient! A simple Mediterranean recipe to delight your vegetarian guests and, more generally, all those who love the intense and genuine taste of seasonal products.
After trying the roasted tomato pasta with eggplants and zucchini, try these variants too:
To prepare the roasted tomato pasta with eggplants and zucchini, first wash the tomatoes and cut them into 4 wedges , then cut a head of garlic in half . Place the tomatoes and garlic on a baking tray and season with oil , salt, and pepper. Generously oil the head of garlic so it won't burn while cooking, then mix the tomatoes with your hands to season them evenly.
Clean the zucchini and cut it into cubes of about 3/4 inch , then do the same with the eggplant . Transfer zucchini and eggplants to another baking tray and season with oil, salt, and pepper , then mix with your hands. Bake both trays at 390°F with fan mode for about 35 minutes.
Towards the end of the vegetable cooking time, plunge the fusilli into boiling salted water . Remove both the tray with the zucchini and eggplants and the one with the tomatoes from the oven.
Take the roasted garlic cloves and place them in a container , along with the tomatoes and the cooking juices. Blend with an immersion blender to obtain a creamy and homogeneous consistency .
Pour the roasted tomato sauce into a pan and add the al dente drained pasta . Mix well and briefly sauté to combine everything .
Complete the dish with a generous portion of roasted zucchini and eggplants and some dollops of goat cheese , then add the fresh basil leaves, a drizzle of oil, and a final grind of pepper. Your roasted tomato pasta with eggplants and zucchini is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the roasted tomato pasta with eggplants and zucchini immediately, but it is also excellent at room temperature.
The roasted tomato sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
Roasted garlic is more digestible than fresh garlic, but you can reduce the dose if you prefer.
For an even richer flavor, you can add grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP to the roasted tomatoes when blending.
For a vegan version, you can simply omit the goat cheese.
If you want to turn this dish into a cold pasta salad, you can skip the step where it is sautéed with the sauce!

