name:
Passion Fruit Cheesecake
ingredients:
Whole wheat cookies: 8.8oz(250 g)
Butter: 1cup(130 g)- melted
Cream cheese: 2.2lbs(500 g)
Lime peel: 1
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(120 g)
Passion fruit: 0.8cup(200 g)- puree
Mango: ½cup(100 g)- puree
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Lime juice: 2tbsp(30 ml)
Passion fruit: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
Tired of the usual cheesecake ? Try the passion fruit cheesecake, an exotic-flavored dessert created for us by Frau Knam. Its fresh and fruity taste and the mix of textures will make this delight a perfect dessert by the spoonful, ideal for closing a special dinner with a refined touch. Here you will also find the three typical layers that characterize this cake: a base of whole grain cookies, a lime-flavored cream, and for garnish, a mango and passion fruit gelée, aromatic and colorful. Come and discover all the secrets of this recipe!
To prepare the passion fruit cheesecake, pour the cookies into the food processor and blend finely . Pour the mixture into a bowl and add the melted butter .
Mix to combine . Pour the mixture into a ring of 9.5 inches in diameter placed on a serving plate , press well with the back of a spoon to distribute and compact the base . Place in the fridge for 30 minutes.
Prepare the cream: soak the gelatin in cold water for 10 minutes . In a bowl, pour the cream cheese and flavor with the lime zest . In a saucepan, heat the milk .
Dissolve the softened gelatin inside and add the sugar , mix to combine .
Pour the mixture into the bowl and mix . Take the base from the fridge and fill the ring with the cream .
Place the base in the freezer for two hours . Prepare the gelée: soak the gelatin in cold water for 10 minutes . In a saucepan, pour the mango puree .
Flavor with the sugar and lime juice . Heat the mixture and incorporate the squeezed gelatin .
Mix to combine , once the gelatin is dissolved, pour the passion fruit puree and mix .
Strain the gelée through a sieve to remove any lumps . Pour the gelée onto the set base and place in the freezer for 20 minutes to cool. Serve the passion fruit cheesecake garnished with half a fruit .
The passion fruit cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2-3 days. It can be frozen, possibly already portioned, so you can defrost slices as needed.
If you do not have a ring, you can use a springform pan of the same diameter.

