name:
Baked Zucchini
ingredients:
Zucchini: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Fine salt: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 2cups(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 1sprig
Sage: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Peperoncino: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Among the many zucchini recipes there is a side dish that we particularly love: baked zucchini! As good as fried zucchini, or sautéed zucchini , but lighter thanks to the baking. What makes them so delicious is definitely the freshly prepared breading, rich in aromatic herbs and with a slight spicy touch that you can omit if you don't like it. Making baked zucchini is really easy and they are prepared in no time, you will get sticks that are soft on the inside and with a pleasant crispy crust on the outside. This side dish is suitable for all occasions and pairs with many main courses. Make it in spring-summer when zucchini are more tender, less watery, and sweeter! Here are more baked zucchini recipes to try:
To prepare the baked zucchini, start by removing the ends . Then cut the zucchini in half and again in half to get 8 thick sticks from each zucchini .
Drizzle with oil and mix by hand . Prepare the breadcrumbs by pouring the breadcrumbs into the blender .
Flavor with thyme leaves, rosemary needles , and sage leaves . Give a brief blend and then add the garlic clove, divided and without the core, and the olive oil .
Finally, add salt and blend. Transfer the breading to a bowl and add the chili pepper .
Mix before dipping and breading the zucchini sticks . Transfer everything to a baking tray with parchment paper underneath and drizzle the surface with a little oil . Then bake in a static oven, already hot at 400°F, for about 20 minutes or until golden brown. Remove from the oven and serve your baked zucchini immediately .
Baked zucchini can be kept for 1-2 days in the refrigerator.
You can omit the chili pepper or replace it with black pepper, sweet or hot paprika, cumin, or other spices to your liking.

