name:
Busiate with Tuna Ragù
ingredients:
Busiate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Tuna: 10.6oz(300 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 2.2lbs(500 g)
Onions: 1.8oz(50 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Tomato paste: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
White wine: (150 g)
Mint: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(100 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 2tbsp(5 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Green Peperoncino: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Who hasn't cooked a pasta with tuna ? Today's recipe, however, takes us directly to Sicily and has nothing to do with the usual spaghetti with canned tuna ! The busiate with tuna ragù is a first course made with fresh tuna, a typical dish from the Trapani area. This region is known for its ancient tuna fisheries and its flavorful local products, including busiate, a long pasta shape named after the knitting needle used to make it. Edoardo Dolcimascolo, chef at "Ristorante 13 giugno" in Milan, offers us a version enriched with “muddica” (the so-called “poor man's Parmesan”), a simple breadcrumb-based seasoning that adds flavor and character to many traditional dishes, such as pasta with broccoli arriminati .
After tasting the busiate with tuna ragù, try these first courses with fresh tuna:
To prepare the busiate with tuna ragù, first cut the fresh tuna into slices 1.5-2 cm (0.6-0.8 inches) thick and then into cubes . Clean and finely chop the onion .
Heat the oil in a large non-stick pan, then add the chopped onion and whole garlic cloves and sauté over medium-low heat until the onion becomes translucent. At this point, remove the garlic and add the tuna cubes . Sauté the tuna gently for 2-3 minutes, trying to stir it gently on all sides to avoid breaking it .
At this point, increase the heat and deglaze with the white wine . Once it has evaporated, add the peeled tomatoes and break them up with a spoon, then add a little water, just enough to rinse the bowl . Also add the tomato paste.
Season with salt, pepper, and mint leaves torn by hand . Mix well , lower the heat again, and let it cook for about 30 minutes .
Meanwhile, prepare the muddica: in another pan, flavor the oil with the garlic and parsley , finely chopped. Also add the chili powder .
Add the breadcrumbs and toast over moderate heat, stirring often . Set aside the muddica and put a pot of salted water to boil. When the sauce is ready, add the pasta to the boiling salted water .
Drain the busiate very al dente and transfer them to the pan with the sauce . Finish cooking the pasta, using a ladle of its cooking water , mixing well to combine everything .
Plate and garnish with plenty of muddica , then finish the dish with a drizzle of raw olive oil and some fresh mint leaves: your busiate with tuna ragù is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the busiate with tuna ragù immediately.
In this case, it is preferable to cook the tuna gently to keep it tender and prevent it from drying out.
The traditional version of muddica, or toasted bread, would also include anchovies, but in this case, it has been omitted as it would contrast too much with the tuna ragù flavor.
Mint leaves, and aromatic herbs in general, should be torn by hand to avoid oxidation and enhance their fragrance.

