name:
Ligurian Style Croaker
ingredients:
Croaker: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (already cleaned)
Cluster tomatoes: 0.5lb(220 g)
Potatoes: 9oz(250 g)
Taggiasca olives: 1.4oz(40 g)
Salted capers: 1tbsp(15 g)
Pine nuts: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Raisins: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
White wine: 2.5oz(70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
With the arrival of summer, the craving for sea-flavored dishes grows: Ligurian style croaker is one of these, a simple and genuine fish dish that enhances the fillet of gilt-head bream, the star of this main course , with tantalizing ingredients. Fresh tomatoes, pine nuts, olives, and capers will add a savory note to this fish with firm and delicate flesh. To complete the dish, we paired it with a timeless side dish : sautéed sliced potatoes, which are always a hit!
Discover many other tasty recipes:
To prepare the Ligurian style croaker, peel the potatoes , cut them into thin slices a few millimeters thick using a mandoline , and soak them in fresh water .
Meanwhile, score the base of the tomatoes and boil them in water for no more than 50 seconds .
Peel the tomatoes and cut them into four parts, removing the pulp with the seeds. Then cut them into cubes of about 1/2 inch and set them aside. Cut the two croaker fillets into 8 pieces and sear them in a pan over high heat in a base of oil and garlic .
When the flesh begins to change color, turn the fillets over to the other side very gently, just enough time to color them. Then remove the garlic and deglaze with white wine . Add the olives .
Add the unsalted capers , raisins , and pine nuts . Add a pinch of salt and swirl the pan to cook without further touching or turning the fish; it will take about 5-10 minutes, depending on the size of the fillets.
Meanwhile, drain and sauté the potatoes in a pan with oil ; they will cook in about 5 minutes , then salt to taste. Once the fish is cooked, add the tomatoes .
Mix gently . Plate the dish by placing the potatoes on one side and the croaker next to them , finally garnish with the remaining ingredients and the seasoning. The Ligurian style croaker is ready to be served .
We recommend consuming the Ligurian style croaker immediately. If you have leftovers, you can store them in the fridge for one day.
If you used fresh ingredients, you can freeze the whole dish.
You can use other varieties of firm-fleshed fish, such as monkfish or cod. Instead of round tomatoes, you can also use plum tomatoes. Aromatic herbs to taste such as parsley, thyme, and a bit of basil. The water soak for the potatoes helps remove the starch, preventing them from sticking during cooking.

