name:
Pistachio Pesto Pasta
ingredients:
Casarecce pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Unsalted pistachios: 1cup(150 g)- (already shelled)
Pine nuts: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Basil: 4leaves
Garlic: ½clove
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Water: to taste- hot
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 7tbsp(100 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 2
Ground pistachio: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High
Note + 2 hours of rest

instructions:
Pistachio pesto pasta is a creamy and wholesome pasta dish made with an enveloping and aromatic pistachio pesto prepared at home in just a few minutes with an immersion blender! Pistachios are a precious, tasty, and very versatile ingredient in the kitchen. Pistachios are very flavorful and can be used to prepare both sweet and savory dishes with various combinations, have you ever tried them in fish dishes? In this case, we propose pasta dressed with a version of the classic Genoese pesto , as pesto can be made in many different ways! Pistachio pesto is perfect for dressing first courses on its own or with other ingredients, for always different and delicious lunches:
To prepare the pasta with pistachio pesto, first rehydrate the pistachios in water for 2 hours (alternatively, you can boil them for a couple of minutes). Then drain them and place them on a dry cloth, rubbing them to remove the skin . Place the peeled pistachios in a bowl, and add the pine nuts .
Season with a few basil leaves , half a clove of garlic with the core removed , and grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP .
Grate the zest of half a lemon , add salt and pepper .
Now start blending with an immersion blender, slowly pouring in the olive oil , and add enough hot water to achieve a creamy consistency . The pistachio pesto is ready .
Cook the pasta in salted boiling water for the time indicated on the package . Once cooked, drain it into a bowl and add the pistachio pesto . Pour in a ladle of cooking water .
Stir to combine . Serve the pistachio pesto pasta hot with sun-dried tomatoes cut into strips and chopped pistachios .
Store the pistachio pesto in the refrigerator for 4-5 days in a jar, covering with olive oil. Alternatively, you can freeze it in small jars for longer storage.
To reduce preparation time, you can blanch the pistachios for 2 minutes instead of rehydrating them in water for 2 hours.

