name:
Quick Lemon Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(280 g)
Eggs: 5.8oz(165 g)- (about 3 medium at room temperature)
Natural plain yogurt: ½cup(125 g)- (at room temperature)
Lemon juice: 4tbsp(55 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Sugar: (160 g)
Sunflower seed oil: ½cup(120 g)
Baking powder: 1tbsp(16 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
Lovers of the classic lemon cake ? What if we told you there is a version you can make in just 10 minutes? The quick lemon cake is the recipe that will save you time without sacrificing a soft and aromatic dessert ! Few ingredients, very few steps, and just the baking time (while you can do other things), to enjoy it for breakfast or a snack! The choice of a seed oil-based batter instead of butter will also give you a lighter and more genuine cake ! You use everything from the lemon both the juice and the zest, for a true concentration of fresh citrus flavor. Once tried, it will become your go-to recipe!
Don't miss these other homemade recipes:
To prepare the quick lemon cake, grate the lemon zest and set aside. Squeeze the lemon and filter the juice .
In a bowl, pour the eggs and sugar . Work with electric whisks to obtain a light and frothy mixture . Add the lemon zest .
The yogurt and also pour in the oil slowly and the lemon juice. Now mix the flour with the sifted baking powder and a pinch of salt .
Incorporate the dry ingredients into the mixture little by little . Once mixed , pour the mixture into a greased and lined baking pan (or floured) with a diameter of 9 inches .
Bake in a preheated oven at 340°F for 50 minutes. Remove the cake and let it cool , then garnish with powdered sugar to taste . The quick lemon cake is ready to be enjoyed .
The quick lemon cake can be stored under a cake dome for 3 days. You can freeze it in portions after baking.
You can make your quick lemon cake even more delicious by covering it with a glaze or serving it with a scoop of ice cream.

