name:
Tomatoes au Gratin
ingredients:
Cluster tomatoes: 8
Stale bread: 3.5oz(100 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2oz(60 g)
Anchovies in oil: 3fillets
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Tomatoes au gratin are a side dish cooked in the oven, with summer and Mediterranean flavors. An evergreen classic that pairs easily with fish or meat main courses, a tasty way to enjoy seasonal tomatoes . Easy and quick to prepare, these stuffed tomatoes are a perfect last-minute dish inspired by the traditional recipe for Apulian tomatoes : once halved and emptied of seeds and pulp, the tomatoes are filled with a tasty and aromatic breadcrumb mixture made with a few turns of the blades in the food processor. Don't worry: you can also make them the same way without a processor, maybe using rustic breadcrumbs. The oven's broiling will ensure perfect browning, and in no time, you'll be serving a delicious and wholesome side dish!
Discover more appetizing recipes to make at home with tomatoes:
To prepare the tomatoes au gratin, wash the tomatoes, cut them in half , extract the pulp that you will need for the filling and set aside the emptied halves .
Drain the excess water from the pulp , then chop it with a knife , and drain it again to remove more excess water .
Roughly chop the stale bread before blending it in the food processor . Add the parsley .
Add the peeled and halved clove of garlic (you can remove the core before using it) , the anchovies drained from the preservation oil , and the grated cheese . Season with a pinch of salt, but don't overdo it at this stage due to the presence of the grated cheese.
Finally, pour in the oil and the drained tomato pulp , blend everything in the food processor until you get a homogeneous breadcrumb mixture .
Fill each tomato half with the obtained filling , place the tomatoes on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, lightly oil the tomatoes . Bake in a preheated convection oven at 390°F for 10-12 minutes, or until golden brown. Serve the tomatoes au gratin hot .
Consume the tomatoes au gratin warm, or store them in an airtight container for a maximum of 2 days. The filling can be prepared in advance.
Make sure to choose firm tomatoes so they retain their shape during cooking.
Instead of parsley, you can use basil, thyme, marjoram, or oregano for the filling.
For a more summery touch, you can grate some lemon zest into the filling. Drain the tomato pulp well to avoid a too watery filling.
Season the breadcrumb mixture with little salt as it will already be quite flavorful.

