name:
Eggplant Mini Pizzas
ingredients:
Eggplant: 0.8lb(350 g)- long
Tomato purée: ½cup(100 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Oregano: to taste
Basil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
There's nothing you can do, your kids don't want to eat eggplants ? Try these eggplant mini pizzas, fun and appealing, they are perfect for your children! Their shape reminds of the classic buffet mini pizzas and it’ll be really hard to resist! This vibrant and colorful appetizer is also suitable for those who have chosen a vegetarian diet because the main ingredients are just eggplants, tomato, and cheese. The eggplant mini pizzas recipe is light and tempting, designed for the little ones but it will also meet the taste of adults! You just need to try, and once you're satisfied, make room for zucchini mini pizzas !
Are you ready for more eggplant appetizers? Take a look at these suggestions:
To prepare the eggplant mini pizzas, start by cleaning the eggplants and slicing them into about a half inch rounds . As you go, arrange them on a baking sheet with a sheet of parchment paper , then season with oil, salt, and pepper . Bake for 15 minutes in a convection oven preheated to 375°F.
In the meantime, slice the mozzarella and let it drain . Season the tomato sauce with oil and salt .
Mix and when the eggplants are precooked, season them, leaving a bit of space from the edges . Tear the mozzarella by hand over the seasoned discs .
Bake for another 7 minutes . Garnish the eggplant mini pizzas with a drizzle of oil , oregano, and some basil leaves .
Serve the eggplant mini pizzas hot.
If there are leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator for up to two days and heat them before enjoying.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you don't have tomato sauce, you can use tomato pulp, and during the summer season, chop up some juicy cherry tomatoes... the oven-baked eggplants will be less saucy but equally tasty!

