name:
Octopus Pasta Salad
ingredients:
Gigli pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Octopus: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (already cleaned)
Cherry tomatoes: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Arugula: 1cup(30 g)
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Pasta salad is one of our favorite summer dishes! Fresh, complete, colorful: today we tempt you with a delicious and different version! This Octopus Pasta Salad is perfect for any occasion: an incredibly easy-to-prepare recipe, a pasta salad enriched with arugula, cherry tomatoes, and plenty of basil. The octopus , cooked in its own water, is very tender and goes perfectly with the other ingredients. Octopus pasta salad is perfect to bring to the beach or for a picnic... you can prepare it in advance and serve it at room temperature even at home, for a really delicious dinner!
Here are other cold pasta dishes to try:
To prepare the cold pasta with octopus, first place the octopus in a pot for "dry" cooking: the octopus will cook in its own water. Cover with a lid and let it cook over medium-low heat for 20-30 minutes , then let it cool in the pot. Meanwhile, cook the pasta and as soon as it's ready, drain it, transfer it to a bowl, season with a drizzle of oil, and let it cool.
Wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them into quarters, or in half if they are small . Transfer them to a large bowl and add the arugula, tearing it with your hands .
Add some basil leaves and season with extra virgin olive oil . Mix well and let it absorb the flavors .
As soon as the octopus is cool, cut it into pieces , if you prefer you can remove some skin by rubbing it with paper towels. Add the octopus to the bowl with the arugula and tomatoes , then add the now cold pasta .
Season with salt and oil . Mix well and store in the refrigerator until ready to serve .
Octopus pasta salad can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
You can enrich this pasta with black olives. If you can't find gigli pasta, you can use another short pasta shape.

