name:
Crispy Prawns
ingredients:
Prawns: 12- fresh
Eggs: 2
Lemon peel: 1
Fioretto corn flour: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Did you buy some nice fresh prawns and don't know how to cook them? If the recipe for baked prawns or Grilled Prawns doesn't entice you enough, here's a delicious fried alternative: crispy prawns! A very easy seafood main dish to prepare thanks to a simple breading made of eggs and cornmeal, flavored with lemon zest. After quickly dipping them in hot oil, the crustaceans will become irresistibly golden and fragrant! Serve the crispy prawns with a fresh salad and a small bowl of mayonnaise for dipping, they will also be excellent as an appetizer.
If you are looking for other variations, try the recipe for Paprika Fried Prawns or microwave prawns , easy and quick!
To make crispy prawns, first take care of cleaning the prawns : remove the legs and shell, making sure to keep the head and tail attached , then cut the back with the blade of a knife and remove the black intestinal vein . Proceed in this way to clean all the prawns, then move on to the breading.
Pour the eggs into a bowl along with the salt and the grated lemon zest , then beat the mixture with a fork .
Dip the prawn meat in the egg mixture , then coat it with the cornmeal you have placed in another container, making sure it sticks well . Place the breaded prawns on a tray as you go .
Heat the vegetable oil to a temperature of 355°F, then dip one prawn at a time with a slotted spoon . When it is nicely golden (it will take less than a minute), drain and transfer to paper towels . Serve your crispy prawns with a pinch of salt, accompanied by mayonnaise and mixed greens !
It is recommended to consume the crispy prawns immediately.
If desired, you can also season the egg mixture with a pinch of white pepper. Alternatively, you can add some milk to temper the flavor of the eggs.

