name:
Almond and Lemon Cookies
ingredients:
Almond flour: 2cups(200 g)
Lemon juice: 4 ¾tbsp(70 g)
Marzipan: ¾cup(200 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(120 g)
Sugar: 0.3cup(70 g)
Brown sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Powdered sugar: 2cups(250 g)
Egg whites: 0.16cup(40 g)
Lemon juice: ½

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 25 pieces
Cost: Average
Note (plus 2 hours and 30 min of resting)

instructions:
To prepare the almond and lemon cookies, first cut the marzipan into cubes and place it in a bowl. Gradually add the lemon juice and mix with your hands until dissolved . Then add the granulated sugar .
Add the brown sugar and the powdered sugar . Continue mixing until you obtain a homogeneous cream .
Also add the almond flour and knead with your hands until you obtain a homogeneous mixture . Form a dough ball and wrap it in plastic wrap .
Flatten it slightly and refrigerate for about 30 minutes. In the meantime, prepare the glaze. Start beating the egg whites and when they become foamy, add the powdered sugar in batches .
Continue to beat the mixture for about 10 minutes and finally add the juice of half a lemon . Mix for a few more moments and set aside. Retrieve the almond dough and roll it out on a lightly floured surface with almond flour, using a rolling pin to achieve a thickness of 1/4 inch .
Add some glaze on top and spread it to a thickness of 1/16 inch . Now shape the cookies. Use a 2 1/2-inch cookie cutter to remove a circle of dough, creating the inner shape of a crescent moon .
Now form the first crescent using the cookie cutter and place it on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Continue forming the other crescents using the cookie cutter . Each time you reuse the cookie cutter, dip it in water, which you have in a small bowl nearby.
Arrange them gradually on the baking sheet and let them rest for 2 hours at room temperature . Then bake in a static oven at 284°F for 15-18 minutes. When they have a slightly amber color, take them out of the oven , let them cool, and serve .
Store the cookies for 3 days at room temperature under a glass dome. The leftover glaze can be covered with plastic wrap and stored in the refrigerator.

