name:
Cold Mascarpone Cream Cake
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 14.1oz(400 g)
Butter: 1cup(240 g)
Dark chocolate: 2.5oz(70 g)
Mint: to taste
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Egg yolks: 4
Sugar: ½cup(120 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.3cup(40 g)
Isinglass: 0.3oz(8 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(250 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + 6 and a half hours of rest

instructions:
With the arrival of summer, the season of no-bake desserts begins! In this recipe, we offer you a delicious cold mascarpone cream cake, much more than a cheesecake ! This cake consists of a crumbly biscuit base that encloses a velvety pastry cream flavored with lemon and enriched with mascarpone. Simple and timeless flavors characterize this dessert, perfect to serve for a snack or as a pleasant end to a meal. The cold mascarpone cream cake is also ideal as a summer birthday cake!
Try our recipe and discover other perfect desserts for the summer:
To prepare the cold mascarpone cream cake, start with the base: melt the butter in a saucepan over low heat and let it cool. Place the biscuits in a mixer and finely chop them .
Transfer the biscuits to a bowl, pour in the melted and cooled butter (be sure not to use it while it's still hot) and mix . Place a 7 inches diameter ring (with a height of 2 1/3 inch) on a tray lined with parchment paper. Pour the biscuit mixture here .
Press the mixture with the back of a spoon to compact the base . Place it in the refrigerator to set for 30 minutes. Prepare the custard: soak the gelatin in cold water for 10 minutes.
In a saucepan, heat the milk flavored with lemon zest , just until it starts to boil. In another bowl, pour the egg yolks and sugar , mix with a whisk, then add the flour .
Incorporate the hot milk by filtering it through a sieve to catch the lemon peel . Mix and transfer the mixture back to the saucepan over the heat . Continue cooking over medium-low heat until the cream thickens .
Add the drained and squeezed gelatin , mix and transfer the cream to a baking dish , cover with plastic wrap and let it set in the fridge for 1 hour. After the resting time, take the cream, soften it with electric beaters .
Incorporate the mascarpone little by little, always with the beaters, until you get a smooth and lump-free cream . Take the biscuit base, pour the cream over it .
Spread the mascarpone cream evenly with a spatula . Transfer the cake to the fridge for 4-5 hours. Use a vegetable peeler to make curls from dark chocolate and decorate the surface of the cake. Finish with mint leaves and serve the cold mascarpone cream cake .
The cold mascarpone cream cake keeps in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. We do not recommend freezing it.
When you peel the lemon zest, be careful not to remove the white part, which would be bitter.
You can also make the base with 14 oz (400 g) of biscuits and 7 oz (200 g) of butter.

