name:
Tiramisu Ice Cream
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1.4cups(334 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Egg yolks: 5.6tbsp(80 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Mascarpone cheese: (150 g)
Coffee: 1.8oz(50 g)
Carob seed powder: 1tsp(5 g)
Water: 2cups(150 g)
Sugar: 1 ¾cup(350 g)
Coffee: 3.5oz(100 g)
Sugar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Amaretto (liquor): 1oz(30 g)
Ladyfingers: to taste
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste
Powdered coffee: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + two hours of rest

instructions:
If you love homemade ice cream and tiramisu , the sweet solution is one: tiramisu ice cream! This recipe was created in our kitchens by the famous Tuscan gelato maker Sergio Dondoli, who also shared his delicious chocolate ice cream recipe with us. Inspired by the most beloved dessert of Italians, this gelato can be enjoyed on a Ice cream cone , perhaps homemade if you want to try making it, or served with ladyfingers soaked in the typical coffee soak, enriched here with a special ingredient that gives it a unique and captivating aroma.
Come discover more homemade ice cream recipes :
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare tiramisu ice cream, start with the syrup: heat the water in a saucepan and gradually add the sugar , stirring with a whisk .
When bubbles start to rise , transfer it to a baking dish and let it cool . Pour the milk into a pot.
Add 330 g (1 1/2 cups) of the freshly prepared syrup , the egg yolks , and the cream .
Complete with the locust bean gum and the vanilla bean seeds . Everything should be combined in the pot while cold. Now, turn on medium heat and stir with a whisk.
Heat the mixture to 185°F, stirring constantly . Remove from heat, wait until it cools to 150°F, still stirring. At this point, you can gradually add the mascarpone . Add the moka coffee .
Stir to combine , then transfer the mixture to a baking dish, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rest for two hours in the refrigerator. Meanwhile, prepare the soaking liquid: make the coffee with the moka, sweeten it while it's still hot .
Flavor with amaretto liqueur . Set aside to cool. Retrieve the tiramisu mixture from the fridge and pour it into the ice cream maker , turn on the machine, and let it churn for the recommended time; with our ice cream maker, it takes 30 minutes to churn . Transfer the ready ice cream into a pastry bag.
Assemble the dessert: dip the ladyfingers in the coffee soak on one side only , then place a ladyfinger on a serving plate , distribute the ice cream on top .
Proceed with another coffee-soaked ladyfinger , then dust with unsweetened cocoa powder and coffee powder. The tiramisu ice cream is ready to be enjoyed .
The churned ice cream can be stored in the freezer for up to one month, in an airtight container.
Amaretto liqueur is an optional addition that will give an aromatic touch to the soak; if you don't like it, you can omit it or substitute it with another liqueur of your choice, such as Rum or Grand Marnier.

