name:
Vegetarian Quinoa Salad
ingredients:
Quinoa: 2cups(400 g)- (already cooked, following package instructions)
Red peppers: 1
Yellow peppers: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Taggiasca olives: 3spoonfuls
Feta cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Chives: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Basil: 10leaves
Mint: 4leaves
Pine nuts: 4spoonfuls
Lemons: 1
Mustard: 1tsp
Garlic: 1clove
Feta cheese: to taste- to crumble

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
What is quinoa and how is it cooked? Before explaining, we invite you to dive into the colors of this vegetarian quinoa salad! A perfect single dish substitute for the classic pasta salad or rice salad , ideal for summer as a lunch box for the office or as a beach picnic meal. Quinoa is a "pseudo-cereal," a cousin of amaranth and belonging to the beet family, it is naturally gluten-free. It is a highly nutritious food, very filling. In this recipe, we have paired it with roasted bell peppers, Taggiasca olives, and feta... an ode to Mediterranean flavors that have always accompanied summer salads!
After trying the vegetarian quinoa salad, experiment with these quinoa recipes as well:
To prepare the vegetarian quinoa salad, place the bell peppers on a baking sheet, drizzle with some oil , and massage them to coat evenly. Bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 30 minutes until well roasted. Then place them in a food bag, still hot, and let them rest for 10 minutes .
Now you can easily remove the skin, along with the seeds and stem . Cut them into pieces and place them in a bowl. Roughly chop the olives .
Cut the feta into cubes . Chop the chives and parsley .
Toast the pine nuts in a pan . In the bowl with the bell peppers, also add the feta, olives, chopped herbs, and the hand-torn basil and mint .
Flavor with the zest of half a lemon . Set aside the dressing and prepare the citronette: pour the juice of one lemon and the mustard into a tall glass.
Add the oil and finely chopped half garlic clove . Blend everything with an immersion blender to get an emulsion .
Now dress the quinoa with the ingredients collected in the bowl , the toasted pine nuts , and the citronette . Mix to season.
Adjust with salt and pepper . Serve with crumbled feta if desired . The vegetarian quinoa salad is ready to be enjoyed .
The vegetarian quinoa salad can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
If you don't want to turn on the oven, you can roast the bell peppers on a grill or barbecue.
For quinoa preparation, you can follow the instructions on the package you purchased. Once ready, let it cool before dressing.

