name:
Ricotta and Blueberry Cake
ingredients:
Cookies: 10.5oz(300 g)
White chocolate: 8.8oz(250 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)- (Seirass)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Lemon peel: to taste
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(50 ml)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 ml)
Blueberries: 2 ½cups(350 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Red wine: 3.4oz(100 ml)
Isinglass: 1 ½tsp(10 g)
Blueberries: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: High
Note + the solidifying times in the fridge for the base, cream, and gelée

instructions:
Do you know seirass ricotta? It is a special cheese produced in Piedmont, with which today we invite you to prepare the delicious ricotta and blueberry cake, signed by Frau Knam! A fresh dessert with a base of cookies and white chocolate, a delicious seirass cream flavored with lemon, and blueberry and wine jelly. A perfect end to a meal, a cake to celebrate a special occasion, or simply a snack with a unique flavor, very easy to make. The steps are very easy, you just have to wait for the setting times before enjoying this dessert: ricotta and blueberry cake, a delight for the palate!
To prepare the ricotta and blueberry cake, start by melting the white chocolate at no more than 104°F. Crumble the cookies and then mix everything together . Line a 9-inch diameter ring with acetate, make the cookie and chocolate base adhere well, about 1 2/3 inch high , and let it set in the fridge for about 30 minutes.
Work on the cream: soak the gelatin in cold water . Heat the milk in a saucepan, separately whip the cream to a semi-whipped state . In a bowl, pour the seirass ricotta and add the sugar .
Flavor with grated lemon zest , mix everything together . Dissolve the well-squeezed gelatin in the hot milk, once the gelatin is well dissolved, pour the milk into the ricotta mixture and mix well with a whisk.
Add the 3.5 oz of semi-whipped cream and mix again . Pour over the base and let it set in the fridge for 3 hours. For the blueberry jelly: soak the gelatin sheets in cold water .
In a saucepan, pour the blueberries, sugar , and red wine . Cook for about 5-10 minutes, then turn off the heat .
Blend , add the squeezed gelatin , and mix to dissolve .
Strain the jelly to make it smoother, then pour it over the cake . Place the cake in the fridge for 2 hours to set. Then remove the ring .
Remove the acetate , decorate with fresh blueberries , and serve your ricotta and blueberry cake .
It can be stored in the fridge for 2-3 days.
It can be frozen, possibly in portions.
Instead of seirass ricotta, you can use regular cow's milk ricotta.
Instead of wine, you can use blueberry juice.

