name:
White Baked Pasta
ingredients:
Fusilli pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Zucchini: 1.5lbs(280 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 7.1oz(200 g)- in a single slice
Peas: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)- to grate
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ½cup(330 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Baked pasta is one of the typical Sunday dishes, a tasty and substantial pasta that everyone in the family loves. Every house has its own recipe with its variations, vegetarian and non-vegetarian, and after the one with spinach , the one with eggplants , and the one with Baked pasta with broccoli and bacon , we want to offer you another version without tomato but equally delicious: white baked pasta. Fusilli, flavored with seasoning made from zucchinis, peas, and diced cooked ham, are complemented by a creamy béchamel with a special taste thanks to the addition of cow's milk ricotta. An original recipe to bring a tasty alternative to the classic baked pasta to your table and surprise your family and friends with always new ideas!
Discover also these variants of white baked pasta:
To make white baked pasta, start with the béchamel : heat the milk in a saucepan and flavor it with grated nutmeg . Meanwhile, melt the butter over low heat in another saucepan .
When the butter is melted, add the flour all at once and continuously stir with a whisk for 1-2 minutes . Now that the roux is ready, pour the warm milk in 2-3 batches while stirring .
Cook, continuing to stir until the sauce has reached the right smooth and creamy consistency ; season with salt. Incorporate the ricotta and stir to blend it evenly . Transfer the béchamel to a bowl and cover with plastic wrap in contact to let it cool.
Prepare the seasoning: cut the ham into about 1/2-inch cubes and then the zucchinis into half-moons . Heat the oil in a pan, add the garlic with the germ removed, and remove it once golden .
Add the zucchinis first and then the peas . Sauté for a couple of minutes and finally add the diced cooked ham . Season with salt and pepper and cook for about ten minutes; the vegetables should remain nice and crunchy.
In the meantime, bring a large pot of water to a boil. Once boiling, add salt and pour in the pasta . Drain it al dente and transfer it to the pan with the seasoning .
Briefly toss to flavor everything . Stir the béchamel and pour it into the pan with the heat off , mixing well .
Transfer the pasta to a baking dish about 10 inches in diameter , level it, and sprinkle the surface with grated Parmigiano cheese . At this point, gratin in a preheated oven at 450°F in grill mode for about 6-8 minutes. Enjoy your white baked pasta hot or warm !
White baked pasta can be stored in the fridge in an airtight container for a couple of days.
We do not recommend freezing it because it might turn too dry once cooked.
Surely a seasonal mix with asparagus, peppers, eggplants, and mushrooms will guarantee you a constantly innovative white baked pasta!
You can substitute the cooked ham with bacon or speck to your liking.

