name:
Easy Sfogliatelle
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- (1 rectangular roll)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)- melted
Powdered sugar: to taste
Whole milk: ¾cup(180 g)
Egg yolks: 2- (of medium eggs)
Sugar: 6tbsp(75 g)
Type 00 flour: 2.7tbsp(20 g)
Lemon peel: ½

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Ricce or frolle ? We answer this delicious dilemma with our easy sfogliatelle recipe! We have made treats that are accessible to everyone, inspired by traditional Neapolitan delights, but with a nod to classic homemade apple sfogliatine . A crunchy puff pastry shell with a Sweet Puff Pastry Shells envelops a soft custard filling with a citrus aroma, reminiscent of other Neapolitan desserts like the famous Amalfi tart . Bringing so much sweetness to the table has never been so easy!
To make easy sfogliatelle, first prepare the custard: heat the milk flavored with lemon zest in a small saucepan . In another small saucepan, pour the sugar and the yolks . Mix with a spatula and add the sifted flour . Stir carefully, making sure not to incorporate air.
Bring the milk to a boil, then pour it gradually into the egg yolk, sugar, and flour mixture, and stir. Return to the heat, cook over medium heat until the cream thickens .

Pour the cream into a bowl and place it in another bowl with ice to speed up the cooling process without losing the cream's shine and consistency . Cover with plastic wrap in contact with the surface and let it cool .
Cut the puff pastry into 3 equal parts vertically , then horizontally to obtain 6 rectangles of about 4 x 4.5 inches. With a sharp knife (or a pasta cutter), make strips about 1/8 inch wide on half of the rectangle: leave a 3/8 inch border on the edge so as not to cut completely and keep the strips attached to each other.
Brush the surface of the dough with half of the melted butter and fold the rectangles over themselves, with the uncut part covering the cut part . Place a teaspoon of custard in the center of the folded rectangle .
Bring one corner towards the center of the rectangle and press the dough to adhere well . Bring the other corner towards the center to form a triangle . Use your fingers to press lightly, joining the two edges of the dough to maintain the shape during baking. Press well with your fingertips along the long side. Turn the sfogliatella over to the decorated side and trim if necessary with a cutter .
Place the sfogliatelle on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper with the closure facing down, brush the surface with the remaining melted butter and sprinkle with powdered sugar . Bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for about 15 minutes, or until golden brown. Remove from the oven and let cool before sprinkling with more powdered sugar.
Easy sfogliatelle can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day. You can freeze them after baking.
As an alternative to custard, you can fill the easy sfogliatelle with chocolate custard, coffee custard, or fruit preserves!

