name:
Focaccia with Cherry Tomatoes and Oregano
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Manitoba flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Water: 1.3cups(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: 1.8tsp(10 g)
Honey: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Oregano: to taste
Coarse salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low
Note + the rising time (about 2 h and 30 min.)

instructions:
Focaccia with cherry tomatoes and oregano is undoubtedly one of the most sought-after variations of the classic focaccia ! Along with the Recco style , it is one of the flavors that people always crave. Today we offer you a very simple oil-based dough that will allow you to make a high and soft focaccia with a deliciously crispy crust! Its simplicity makes this focaccia perfect for any time of the day: you can use it to enrich your bread basket, cut it into cubes and serve it with cold cuts, or enjoy a nice slice for lunch, perhaps outdoors! This focaccia does not require long hours of leavening and will be ready in no time! Also check out:
To make focaccia with cherry tomatoes and oregano, start by preparing the base dough. We used a stand mixer, but if you don't have one, you can make the dough by hand, following the order of the ingredients. Sift the flours into the stand mixer bowl , add the dry yeast , and start the mixer with the dough hook attached. Let the flours mix with the yeast and then add the honey .
At this point, add about three-quarters of the total water, pouring it in slowly . Once the mixture has come together, add the salt and the remaining water, still slowly .
When the dough has absorbed all the water, add the oil in a thin stream (like the water) to allow the dough to absorb it gradually, thus helping the development of the gluten network . Knead the dough in the stand mixer for about 15 minutes , then transfer it to a floured work surface .
Fold the dough by taking the edges and folding them towards the center , then form a ball and place it in a bowl . Let it rise for a couple of hours, covering the bowl with plastic wrap.
Meanwhile, cut the cherry tomatoes in half and squeeze them to remove the seeds and their liquid . Then crumble the oregano and set everything aside .
After 2 hours of rising, the dough will have doubled in size . At this point, grease a 14x11 inch baking pan with oil and pour the dough into it ; proceed to stretch it gently with your hands .
Once the entire surface of the baking pan is covered , sprinkle the focaccia with the cherry tomatoes and drizzle with a little oil , then add the coarse salt .
Finally, sprinkle with oregano and let it rise for another 30 minutes . After this time, bake the focaccia in a preheated static oven at 375°F for 45 minutes. Your focaccia with cherry tomatoes and oregano is ready to be enjoyed !
We recommend consuming the focaccia freshly baked. Alternatively, it can be stored for one day in a bread bag. It can be frozen, in the pan, before the second rise. Once thawed, you will need to add the cherry tomatoes and finish the rising.
Bake the focaccia with cherry tomatoes and oregano on the lower rack of the oven to give more crispiness to the base!
If the dough tends to shrink when you spread it in the pan, let it rest for a couple of minutes before continuing.

