name:
Stewed Peas with Bacon
ingredients:
Peas: 4.4lbs(2 kg)- (cleaned 450 g)
Smoked pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Water: 0.6cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Shallot: 1
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The fruit and vegetable stalls are overflowing with the first signs of spring, and here are the pea pods! Among the many preparations, the recipe for stewed peas with bacon is definitely a must. A very easy and tasty side dish always appreciated by adults and especially by children. The sweet peas meet the savory and tasty bacon, transforming into a perfect side dish! The preparation of stewed peas with bacon has very few steps and a really short cooking time that guarantees a perfect result to accompany whatever you prefer. Ready? Today we are cooking stewed peas with bacon, let's start!
If the delicious combination of peas + bacon tickles your taste buds, then don't miss other ideas, such as:
To prepare stewed peas with bacon, first shell the peas and collect them in a bowl; you should get about 1 lb . Move on to the bacon: first cut it into slices .
From these, make strips . Mince the shallot and move to the stove. Heat a drizzle of oil in a pot and add the minced shallot .
Cook for two minutes over medium-low heat with a pinch of salt (optional) , then add the bacon and cook for 3-4 minutes . Add the peas and a pinch of salt.
Add the water and cover with a lid, cooking for about 12-13 minutes, stirring occasionally . Adjust the salt to taste, being mindful that the bacon is salty. Once cooking is complete, turn off the heat and serve your peas with bacon !
Cooked peas can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for two or three days.
You can also freeze the cooked side dish.
You can also clean the peas beforehand and store them raw in the refrigerator for a few days.
If you prefer a milder flavor, replace the smoked bacon with sweet bacon. Flavor the peas with basil leaves, adding them only at the end of cooking.

