name:
Pasta with Green Bean Pesto, Cherry Tomatoes and Olives
ingredients:
Fusilli pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Plum tomatoes: 1.1lbs(250 g)
Black olives: 1 ¼cup(60 g)
Almond slices: 1oz(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Green beans: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Peeled almonds: 2.8oz(80 g)
Pine nuts: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)- to grate
Basil: 5leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.7tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Everyone knows pasta with pesto and its variation with potatoes and green beans , but today we have decided to stray from Ligurian tradition to offer you an original first course: pasta with green bean pesto, cherry tomatoes, and olives! A delicious seasonal variation of the classic Genoese pesto made with both pine nuts and almonds, with the added freshness of cherry tomatoes and the savory note of olives. Also great to enjoy at room temperature, pasta with green bean pesto, cherry tomatoes, and olives is a great idea for the office or, even better, for a beach lunch!
Try other types of pesto such as arugula pesto or zucchini pesto !
To prepare pasta with green bean pesto, cherry tomatoes, and olives, first bring a pot of salted water to a boil and clean the green beans by removing the ends and the string . Cook the green beans in the boiling water for 15-20 minutes . In the meantime, wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half . Put another pot of water on the stove to boil for the pasta.
When the green beans are cooked, drain them and start cooking the pasta. Transfer the green beans to a mixer with steel blades and add half of the olive oil , the whole almonds , and the pine nuts .
Blend intermittently for a few seconds, then add the grated Parmesan , the basil, and the remaining olive oil, or as much as needed to obtain the right consistency . Blend again until you get a creamy sauce .
Drain the pasta al dente and season it with a drizzle of olive oil , then add the green bean pesto and the cherry tomatoes .
Add the olives and the sliced almonds . Pour another drizzle of olive oil and mix well. Your pasta with green bean pesto, cherry tomatoes, and olives is ready to be served !
Pasta with green bean pesto, cherry tomatoes, and olives can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container. If you plan to enjoy it cold, remember to let it sit at room temperature for 15 minutes before serving.
Green bean pesto can be stored in the refrigerator in a jar for about 3 days, covered with a layer of oil.
To make green bean pesto, you can use only pine nuts or only almonds or replace them with other types of nuts, keeping the total amount unchanged.
If you wish, you can add sun-dried tomatoes in oil instead of fresh cherry tomatoes!

