name:
Pasta with Sun-dried Tomato Pesto, Ricotta, and Anchovies
ingredients:
Rigatoni: 11.3oz(320 g)
Anchovies in oil: 5
Basil: to taste
Basil: 0.7oz(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Water: 2spoonfuls- cold
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 2.5oz(70 g)
Hazelnuts: 0.3cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Goatmilk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Colatura di alici (fishsauce): 2tsp(10 g)
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)- cold

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
An incredible-tasting pasta: today we tempt you with pasta with sun-dried tomato pesto, ricotta, and anchovies! A main dish that will help you discover new ways to prepare homemade pesto . Basil, in this recipe, is used to prepare an aromatic oil that will add a fragrant and flavorful note. The sun-dried tomato pesto has been revisited and enriched with hazelnuts and Parmigiano Reggiano DOP. A fresh ricotta cream and anchovies complete this fabulous dish with intense flavors. Test yourself by exploring other pesto recipes like these:
To prepare the pasta with sun-dried tomato pesto, ricotta, and anchovies, start with the basil oil. Blanch the basil in boiling salted water for 2 seconds , then drain it into a bowl of ice water to cool and keep the color vibrant .
Squeeze it out and place it in a tall glass with oil and cold water . Blend with an immersion blender .
Once the mixture is blended , strain it and set it aside. Move on to the pesto: in a tall glass, add the drained sun-dried tomatoes .
Add the hazelnuts, Parmigiano , water, salt , pepper, and oil .
Blend with the immersion blender , and once smooth, set it aside . In a bowl, add the ricotta and anchovy sauce .
Season with a pinch of salt, mix , and transfer to a piping bag . Meanwhile, cook the pasta .
Cut the anchovies into small diamond shapes . Drain the pasta, reserving a bit of the cooking water, and place it in a bowl. Mix with the pesto , adjusting the consistency with the cooking water until creamy .
Plate the dish by placing the basil oil at the bottom , pipe dollops of ricotta cream, distribute the anchovies, and add basil leaves. Serve the pasta with sun-dried tomato pesto, ricotta, and anchovies cold or warm.
We recommend consuming the pasta with sun-dried tomato pesto, ricotta, and anchovies immediately. If there are leftovers, you can store them in the fridge for a couple of days. You can prepare the pesto and basil oil in advance.
Salt sparingly as the seasoning will be quite salty. Goat ricotta has a strong flavor; if you don't prefer it, you can substitute it with cow ricotta. If you want a smoother basil oil, use a paper filter to strain it more finely.

