name:
Water Coffee Cream
ingredients:
Instant coffee: 2tsp(10 g)
Sugar: ½cup(90 g)
Water: 0.8cup(180 g)- cold
Instant coffee: to taste
Coffee beans: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
No cooking, no oven! Ready in 5 minutes and with only 3 ingredients: the water coffee cream will keep you company all summer long! All you need is water, instant coffee, and sugar to create this very soft, frothy, easy and quick cream! The water coffee cream is perfect to serve instead of classic iced coffee, or the coffee cream that contains cream. The secret of this preparation is that you don't need to refrigerate the coffee beforehand, and you don't need too many ingredients: this way, you can prepare this recipe at any time and manage to surprise your guests, even the unexpected ones! Use cold water to make this cream; it will whip up faster and taste much better! Here are other coffee desserts to try:
To prepare the water coffee cream, first, pour the sugar , instant coffee , and water into a very large bowl. Keep in mind that once whipped, the cream will be very voluminous.
Start working with the electric beaters, initially at low speed to avoid splashes . Then, increase the speed and in a few minutes, the cream will start to swell . Once it becomes light and very frothy, you can turn off the mixer , which will take about 10 minutes.
The cream should be very frothy; taking a spoonful and turning it upside down, it should not slip off. Transfer the obtained cream into small cups , decorate with coffee powder and coffee beans before serving .
We recommend consuming the cream immediately; otherwise, it may deflate.
Cold water improves the mousse's consistency; if you use room temperature water, you will need to work the mixture a few more minutes, and the foam will deflate sooner. You can replace granulated sugar with brown sugar; the foam will be a bit darker. You can flavor it to your liking with vanilla, cinnamon, or cocoa.

