name:
Sponge Cake with Chantilly and Berries
ingredients:
Eggs: 7.1oz(200 g)- (about 4)
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Potato starch: 10tbsp(70 g)
Vanilla bean: 1- (the seeds)
Fine salt: ½tsp(3 g)
Pastry cream: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ½cup(350 g)- whipped
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
Whole milk: to taste- (to dissolve the gelatin)
Raspberries: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Strawberries: 1cup(150 g)
Blackberries: ½cup(100 g)
Blueberries: ½cup(100 g)
Water: 0.8cup(200 ml)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Meringues: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + time for setting, cooling, and resting

instructions:
A super soft sponge cake , juicy berries, and a voluptuous cream: in a few words, a perfect cake for special occasions. Sponge cake with chantilly and berries, a journey into classic flavors crafted to perfection for a dessert to be served on a birthday, anniversary, or whenever you want to celebrate a unique moment with a timeless sweet treat. There are many ways to make this classic pastry base, sponge cake: Frau Knam shows us how to start by working eggs, yolks, and sugar in a bain-marie, then creating the perfect foam. Discover layer by layer the goodness of this cake that has all the features to become one of your signature cakes!
To prepare the sponge cake with chantilly and berries, work the eggs and yolks with vanilla , salt, and sugar .
You need to cook in a bain-marie to reach 113°F, measured with a kitchen thermometer . Remove from heat and beat well with an electric mixer or stand mixer until cooled . Now add the sifted flour and potato starch, a few spoons at a time, stirring from top to bottom to avoid deflating the batter .
Pour into a 9-inch diameter ring placed on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , filling up to 3/4 full and level off . Bake in a preheated static oven at 347°F for 25 minutes. Once cooked, remove from the oven and let cool slightly .
Once unmolded and cooled, proceed to eliminate any surface imperfections , then divide into 3 discs . Make the soaking syrup by mixing water, sugar, and vanilla seeds in a saucepan , stir and bring to a boil, then turn off and let cool.
Soak the gelatin in cold water for about 10 minutes, then dissolve it in a little warm milk taken from the amount needed to make 12.35 oz of pastry cream. Prepare the pastry cream using the classic method, then let it cool. Add the warm milk in which you dissolved the gelatin to the cream , stir and let it cool completely. Add the whipped cream to the cold cream .
Mix the two mixtures using a spatula with top-down movements . Now you can assemble the cake: place a disc of sponge cake on a serving plate, moisten with the previously prepared soaking syrup , and spread a layer of cream .
Place a layer of berries , then another sponge cake , soaking syrup, and cream .
Finish by spreading the remaining cream all around the cake . Let it set in the fridge for 30 minutes. Decorate with meringues and powdered sugar. Your sponge cake with chantilly and berries is ready to be served !

