name:
Linguine with Garlic, Oil, Chili Pepper, and Shrimp
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Shrimps: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (to clean)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Lemon peel: 1- (to grate)
Butter: 4tbsp(60 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)- (to grate)
Parsley: to taste- (leaves and stems)
Basil: to taste
Water: to taste- hot
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Garlic, oil, and chili pepper is the classic dinner-saving pasta that you can prepare at any time of the day... or night! Giuseppe Mancino, a starred chef originally from Campania, offers us the recipe for linguine with garlic, oil, chili pepper, and shrimp, a sea-inspired gourmet variant. The shrimp are used both raw and cooked to create a delightful contrast of textures, while the ribbon pasta is enveloped in a creamy and velvety sauce made with the crustacean heads. Not your usual shrimp pasta then, and much more than a simple dinner saver... linguine with garlic, oil, chili pepper, and shrimp will surprise your palate from the first bite with an intense mix of flavors and aromas to discover forkful by forkful!
Don't miss out on these tasty first courses inspired by the classic garlic and oil:
To make linguine with garlic, oil, chili pepper, and shrimp, first, clean the shrimp: remove the shell and detach the head , then gently extract the intestine with a toothpick . Keep the heads aside .
Keep aside half of the shrimp and coarsely chop the remaining ones with a knife . Transfer the chopped shrimp to a bowl and season with a drizzle of oil .
Add the grated lemon zest and a pinch of salt , mix and set aside .
Separate the parsley steams from the leaves . In a skillet, heat some oil along with grated garlic, the chili pepper halved lengthwise , and the parsley stems .
Gently fry, then add the shrimp heads , a pinch of salt, and 3 tablespoons of butter . Toast the shrimp heads for a few minutes, then pour in a ladle of hot unsalted water .
Let it cook for about ten minutes, crushing the heads with a meat mallet to release all the juices . At the end of cooking, strain everything through a sieve to obtain a smooth sauce .
At this point, cook the linguine in a pot of salted water that you have brought to a boil . Pour the crustacean sauce into a skillet , add the whole shrimp kept aside, and a pinch of salt. Drain the pasta very al dente and transfer it to the skillet with the sauce .
While you finish cooking the linguine in the skillet, season with the parsley and hand-torn basil , then lower the heat and toss with the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP and the remaining 1 tablespoon of butter .
Finally, scent with grated lemon zest , continuing to mix . Plate and place the raw shrimp kept aside on the pasta nests: your linguine with garlic, oil, chili pepper, and shrimp are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the linguine with garlic, oil, chili pepper, and shrimp immediately.
Linguine are perfect for wrapping the sauce: alternatively, you can use another long pasta shape like spaghetti or thick spaghetti.

