name:
Light Cake
ingredients:
Puffed rice: 2cups(50 g)
White chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Cardamon: ½tsp(3 g)- green powder
Natural plain yogurt: 2.1cups(500 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.7oz(20 g)
Liqueur: 1.7oz(50 ml)- Calvados
Granny Smith apples: 1 ¼cup(250 g)- cleaned, diced
Lemon juice: 3 ½tbsp(50 ml)
Apple juice: 1cup(200 g)
Liqueur: 1.4oz(40 ml)- Calvados
Gelatin in sheets: 0.4oz(10 g)
Granny Smith apples: to taste
Cardamon: to taste- green, in seeds

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note plus resting times

instructions:
The light cake is a cold yogurt cake enriched with apples, with a super special base made with puffed rice and white chocolate. A perfect recipe for the hottest days, a no-bake dessert that is simple but at the same time very special thanks to the aroma of cardamom and the use of Calvados, a cider brandy obtained from the distillation of apples, originally from France! You will discover apples in two textures: tender cubes interposed between the crunchy base and the soft cream, plus a layer of jelly made precisely with the juice! This cake is a true delight for the palate and is suitable for all occasions, hurry up and prepare it! Here are other cold cakes to try:
To prepare the light cake, first place the apple cubes in a bowl , add the lemon juice , and mix. Vacuum seal at 100% or alternatively cover with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator to macerate for 2 hours.
In the meantime, prepare the base. In a bowl, pour the puffed rice and add the melted white chocolate , at a temperature not exceeding 95°F. Add the cardamom and mix .
Place a 9-inch ring on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and transfer the puffed rice mixture inside . Level well with a spatula and place in the refrigerator to firm up for 30 minutes. In the meantime, prepare the cream. First, soak the gelatin in cold water, then pour 1/4 cup of Calvados into a saucepan .
Heat the liquor and add the drained gelatin ; mix well to dissolve it, then add the sugar and wait until it is completely dissolved. Pour the mixture into a bowl where you have already poured the yogurt .
Place the bowl in another bowl with ice; mix with a whisk until you get a homogeneous mixture. The ice will help the cream to gel faster. At this point, take the base from the fridge and place the apples on top , spreading them evenly , leaving a couple of inches free from the edge.
Also pour the yogurt cream on top and level it . Place in a blast chiller or freezer for half an hour to solidify. When the cake is solid, you can prepare the jelly. As done before, soak the gelatin in cold water and dissolve it in the 1.35 oz of warm liquor .
Stir to dissolve it, then add the apple juice . Mix and pour over the cake . Place back in the freezer for an hour, until the jelly has solidified .
At this point, remove the ring and decorate with apple cubes and green cardamom . Store in the refrigerator until ready to serve .
We recommend storing the light cake in the refrigerator for 2-3 days at most.
Enrich the base with 2.8 oz of candied ginger cubes, it will give a touch of freshness to your cake!

