name:
Zucchini Tartlets
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(225 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.7cup(150 g)
Wild fennel: to taste
Dill: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Mint: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Zucchini: 14.1oz(400 g)- small
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(100 g)
Aromatic herbs: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 30 min. of dough resting in the fridge

instructions:
Zucchini enrich the summer menus with their delicate and genuine taste! In this recipe, we use them raw to create an original vegetarian appetizer : zucchini tartlets. A crunchy shell holds an aromatic ricotta cream garnished with zucchini slices... but be careful not to throw away the scraps: they will be used to prepare a fragrant oil that will give the final touch to our lovely tartlets! Ideal for a buffet or an aperitif, zucchini tartlets will be even more appreciated because they are made entirely by hand.
Try these delicious zucchini appetizers as well:
To make zucchini tartlets, first prepare the dough for the base: pour the water and butter into a saucepan, then bring to a boil .
Add 2/3 cup of flour and mix well over heat until a film forms at the bottom . At this point, transfer the mixture to a bowl and add the remaining 1 1/4 cups of flour in several additions ; you can also use a stand mixer fitted with a paddle.
Gradually incorporate the flour by working the mixture first in the bowl with a spoon and then with your hands on the work surface . When you have obtained a smooth and homogeneous dough , wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes.
After this time, slightly roll out the dough with a rolling pin , then pass it through the rollers of a pasta machine, gradually reducing the thickness . You should obtain a sheet about 1/8 inch thick .
Place an oval pastry cutter on the sheet, measuring about 7.5 inches by 2.75 inches and 1.38 inches high, then cut it with a wheel leaving a space of about 3/4 inch from the edge . Place the pastry cutter on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper or Silpat and transfer the cut-out sheet inside , pressing well against the edges to adhere it. Prick the base with a fork and bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for about 20 minutes. Once the tartlets are golden, remove them from the oven and let them cool.
Meanwhile, prepare the ricotta cream: finely chop the aromatic herbs , then add them to the ricotta that you have mixed in a bowl with the cream . Season with oil, salt, and pepper. Transfer the obtained cream into a piping bag without a nozzle and leave it in the refrigerator until ready to use .
Now wash and trim the zucchini . Blanch the ends of the zucchini for a few minutes , then drain and transfer them to a bowl with ice water .
Transfer the blanched zucchini to a pitcher along with 7 tablespoons of oil , then blend with an immersion mixer to reduce them to puree .
Strain the puree through a fine mesh sieve and set aside the obtained zucchini oil . Cut the rest of the zucchini into thin slices .
At this point, the tartlets will be cold, so gently remove the pastry cutter . Fill the base with the ricotta cream and level the surface with a spatula .
Garnish with the raw zucchini slices and some aromatic herbs , then season with the zucchini oil . Your zucchini tartlets are ready to be served!
It is recommended to consume the zucchini tartlets immediately.
The ricotta cream can be stored for 2 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container.
The base can be stored at room temperature for up to 2 weeks in a cool, dry place inside an airtight container.
You can use the pastry cutters you have available or tartlet molds; there will be no need to butter them or line them with parchment paper!

