name:
Stuffed Focaccia with Onions and Cherry Tomatoes
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1cup(250 g)
Water: 1 ⅓cup(320 g)- lukewarm
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.1oz(4 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(20 g)
Oregano: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Yellow onions: 5
Red onions: 5
Cherry tomatoes: 10.6oz(300 g)
Water: 1 ⅓cup(320 g)- warm
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 2 h of rising

instructions:
The focaccia is a treat that always pleases everyone, but each of us has our favorite, and here we propose one of its countless variations: stuffed focaccia with onions and cherry tomatoes, a rustic recipe that evokes the homemade preparations of grandmothers. What makes this leavened bread unique is the filling made of stewed onions with cherry tomatoes, nestled between two layers of soft focaccia , an explosion of intense aromas and flavors to discover with the first bite. If, like us, you love simple flavors that never go out of style, try making this delicious stuffed focaccia with onions and cherry tomatoes at home and other tasty variations:
To prepare the stuffed focaccia with onions and cherry tomatoes, mix the semolina and all-purpose flour together. In a separate bowl, crumble the fresh yeast .
Pour in 1 1/3 cups of lukewarm water and mix with your hands to dissolve the yeast . Incorporate the mixture into the flours and knead vigorously by hand, lifting and pressing the dough with your knuckles until it has absorbed the liquid well; it should be soft and fluffy .
Add the salt and the oil and continue kneading by hand .
You should obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough , cover it with plastic wrap and let it rise in the oven with the light on for 2 hours . Meanwhile, prepare the filling: peel and slice the golden onions .
Do the same with the red onions . Heat a generous amount of oil in a saucepan , then add the onions .
Salt immediately , this way the onions will release their water during cooking and will not burn; then add the whole cherry tomatoes and pour in 1 1/3 cups of hot water . Mix well, cover with the lid and cook on high heat for 4-5 minutes, then lower the heat to a minimum and let the onions stew for about 30-40 minutes.
The onions should be soft and translucent . At this point, oil a sheet of parchment paper and place it on a rectangular baking sheet measuring 11x14 inches . Retrieve the risen dough and sprinkle it with a little flour .
Stretch it with your hands on the work surface , then roll it out with a rolling pin to create a thin rectangular shape , larger than the size of the pan. Roll the dough onto the rolling pin and unroll it onto the pan. Run the rolling pin along the edge to trim any excess dough .
Set aside the trimmed dough and fill the focaccia with most of the stewed and cooled onions , reserving 3-4 tablespoons for the surface. Now roll out the trimmed dough again with the rolling pin .
Create another rectangular sheet like the first one and place it on the pan to cover the focaccia with a second layer . Seal the edges by pressing with your fingers to prevent the filling from spilling out during cooking .
Cover the surface with the remaining onions, drizzling it with their cooking liquid. Drizzle with some oil and moisten with a little water, then season with salt and plenty of dried oregano . Poke the surface with a fork, being careful not to pierce the bottom layer. Bake in a static oven at 350°F for 40-45 minutes. Remove from the oven and let the stuffed focaccia with onions and cherry tomatoes cool slightly , then cut it into squares with scissors and serve !
You can store the stuffed focaccia with onions and cherry tomatoes in the refrigerator for 2 days. We recommend reheating it in the oven before serving. Alternatively, once cooled, you can freeze the focaccia in pieces or whole.
If in the first phase of kneading the dough appears dry, wait a few minutes before adding more water to allow the semolina to absorb the maximum amount of liquid.
For this recipe, you can vary the type of onions according to your preferences and availability.

