name:
Tart with almond custard, chantilly, and plums
ingredients:
Butter: ½cup(110 g)
Powdered sugar: ½cup(70 g)
Almond flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Eggs: 1.6oz(45 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Potato starch: ½cup(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Egg yolks: 5.3tbsp(75 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Cornstarch: 1 ¾tbsp(25 g)
Marzipan: 2tbsp(30 g)
Vanilla: ½
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(35 g)
Oregano: to taste- fresh
Plums: 10.5oz(300 g)
Almonds: to taste
Oregano: to taste- fresh (optional)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: High
Note + the cooling times for the preparations

instructions:
There are many types of tart , from the classic ones with jam or cream, to the fruit tart . With the tart with almond custard, chantilly, and plums, we combined different preparations for a surprising summer dessert to the eyes and palate. A fragrant shell of shortcrust pastry holds a delicious custard enriched with marzipan. A soft covering of chantilly cream with a simple decorative motif completes the dessert, made even fresher by the presence of plums. Sweet combinations, refined decorations but within everyone's reach, to present on the table a perfect dessert for the end of a meal, as a birthday tart or for any special occasion.
Also discover the goodness of:
To prepare the tart with custard, chantilly, and plums: in a stand mixer, pour the dry ingredients , the salt, and the cold butter in pieces .
Mix with the paddle attachment until the mixture becomes crumbly, then add the egg and mix slowly until the dough is smooth and homogeneous. Remove it from the mixer and briefly knead it with your hands to form a square shape, then place the dough on parchment paper to wrap it .
Seal it well and flatten it further with a rolling pin , then place it on a tray and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes or for the duration of the custard preparation.
For the custard: in a saucepan, bring the milk, cream, and vanilla bean to a near boil. Meanwhile, in a bowl, mix the egg yolks and sugar with a hand whisk , then add the starch . Stir again to obtain a homogeneous mixture.
Pour the milk (after removing the vanilla bean) into the egg yolk, sugar, and starch mixture , stir, and return to the heat , continuing to stir until the cream starts to simmer. Lower the heat and add the marzipan cut into small cubes . Stir to dissolve it. Pour the cream into a wide, shallow container, cover with plastic wrap, and place in the refrigerator until cooled. Once ready, transfer it to a piping bag without a nozzle.
Take the shortcrust dough , roll it out to a thickness of 1/8-3/16 inch on a lightly floured surface . Cut the base with a 9-inch ring .
Place the base on a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone mat, position the ring over the shortcrust base . Then add the edge of the shortcrust, cut from a strip of shortcrust dough 3/4 inch thick and 26 inches long . If you cannot move the strip easily, you can make two strips of 13 inches (or even shorter) and join them directly in the mold. Prick the bottom with a fork, then let it cool in the fridge for 30 minutes to maintain the shape better during baking. Bake the base in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 25-30 minutes. Meanwhile, cut the plums into wedges, slice a few for decoration, and cut the rest into small cubes .
Once the base is ready and cooled , fill it with the custard, which is also cold and placed in the piping bag . Distribute the diced plums .
Cut the almonds into 4 lengthwise , then prepare the chantilly by whipping the fresh liquid cream with the seeds of half a vanilla bean and powdered sugar . It should be semi-whipped.
Pour the cream into a piping bag with a 3/8 inch round nozzle and decorate the tart, creating a circular pattern from the edges towards the center . Finally, decorate with the plum slices , almonds, and a few fresh oregano leaves. Your tart with almond custard, chantilly, and plums is ready to be served !
The tart with almond custard, chantilly, and plums can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days. You can freeze the raw shortcrust dough and then thaw it in the fridge when needed.
The custard can be prepared in advance and stored in the fridge in an airtight container.
The shortcrust can be baked a day in advance and kept under a glass dome, or prepare the dough and keep it raw in the fridge wrapped in parchment paper for 1-2 days.
If you don't have a ring, you can use a round baking pan of the same size. The semi-whipped cream has a puffy and foamy consistency but is not firm.
The dough can also be worked by hand.
Almond flour can be substituted with all-purpose flour, but the final almond flavor will be less intense.

