name:
Lemon Chicken Strips
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Lemon juice: 6tbsp(90 g)
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Water: ½cup(125 g)
Lemon peel: 2
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Lemon chicken strips immediately bring to mind an easy and quick main course at home. With the addition of one ingredient, as in the recipe for lemon chicken strips, the dish will become refined and delicious! Fragrant and flavorful, these tender strips are enveloped in a creamy and succulent lemon-flavored sauce that will keep the meat tender and juicy. Our recipe is a true lifesaver for your menus all year round, when you're looking for tasty dishes that require little time in the kitchen. Accompany the lemon chicken strips with one of our salads or with some pan-fried potatoes , a classic that always pleases everyone!
Here are other chicken recipes to try at home:
To prepare the lemon chicken strips, cut the chicken breast into strips , removing any fatty parts. Grate the lemon zest and squeeze the juice, filtering it .
In a skillet, heat the oil and infuse it with garlic . When it is hot, remove the garlic and add the chicken strips .
Sear them over high heat, stirring frequently and add the rosemary needles . When they are well browned, set them aside .
Lower the heat and, in the same skillet, melt the butter . Add the flour and whisk, then pour in the water .
Also, pour in the lemon juice and let it thicken a bit (less than 1 minute or as needed). Return the chicken to the pan to let it absorb the flavors and salt .
Flavor with the lemon zest , stir , and serve the lemon chicken strips hot .
It can be stored for one day in the refrigerator. Just reheat it in a skillet over low heat with a little water to revive the sauce,
If you don't like rosemary, feel free to use thyme. Always be careful to take only the yellow part of the lemon peel, not the white part, which is bitter. If you want to add a bit more aroma, also add some pink peppercorns.

