name:
Spaghettone with Yellow Datterino Tomatoes
ingredients:
Spaghettoni: 11.3oz(320 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 17.6oz(500 g)- yellow
Basil: to taste
Oregano: to taste- dry
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + preparation time for the datterino tomato peel powder (approx. 2 h)

instructions:
An iconic Mediterranean dish with a creamy texture and bright colors: spaghettone with yellow datterino tomatoes by chef Solaika Marrocco. This pasta dish is made with very few high-quality ingredients: spaghettone, with its rough character, meets the sweetness of yellow datterino tomatoes, a precious Italian product for its delicate taste, simply transformed into a smooth sauce. Tomato peel powder, because nothing is wasted in the kitchen, and dried oregano powder complete this dish with its extraordinary simplicity and goodness. You can replicate the spaghettone with yellow datterino at home by following all the steps explained with great professionalism by chef Marrocco, one of the youngest on the Italian scene, head of the brigade at the starred Primo Restaurant in Lecce.
To prepare the spaghettone with yellow datterino tomatoes, cut the previously washed datterini into quarters . Then, in a large pan, heat a drizzle of oil, add the datterini , and cook over fairly high heat, stirring often. Season with a pinch of salt and the basil leaves torn by hand .
Cover the tomatoes with water and cook for about 20 minutes; occasionally mash them with a ladle . Once cooked, blend with an immersion blender .
To make the obtained sauce smoother, pass it through a sieve . The leftover tomato skins should not be discarded : they can be spread on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Dry them for about 2 hours in a static oven at 160-176°F . When they are completely dried, you can blend them in a mixer .
Sift to obtain a very fine powder . At this point, you can cook the pasta in boiling salted water for 14 minutes . Meanwhile, prepare the other powder to sprinkle over the final dish: place the dried oregano leaves in the mixer, detaching them from the sprigs .
Sift this mixture as well and collect it in a small bowl . Drain the spaghettone and transfer it to the same pan in which you cooked the tomatoes . Add the datterino sauce .
Continue cooking the pasta with the sauce for another 2-3 minutes, adding cooking water as needed to create a nice creamy consistency . Plate the pasta in a nest shape on each plate and cover with plenty of sauce .
Finish with the datterino peel powder and the dried oregano powder . The spaghettone with yellow datterino is ready to be served !
We recommend consuming the spaghettone with yellow datterino right away.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can replace the yellow datterino tomatoes with red datterino tomatoes and follow the same procedure.
For this recipe, it is important to choose pasta that holds up well during cooking and releases a significant amount of starch.

