name:
Coffee Panna Cotta
ingredients:
Coffee: 5.3oz(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2.1cups(500 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Vanilla extract: ½tsp
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Coffee: 2.5oz(70 g)
Coffee beans: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note plus cooling time in the refrigerator of at least 4 hours

instructions:
Coffee panna cotta is a delightful spoon dessert that is inspired by one of the most beloved desserts: traditional panna cotta , usually flavored with vanilla. The consistency remains the same... that enveloping creaminess that won us over in the original recipe will not be lacking, but with this version, you will get an intense coffee flavor! We will explain how to prepare a quick dessert , perfect to prepare in advance and serve after dinner, without giving up neither the dessert nor the coffee! And for the most greedy, we added a creamy sauce made with dark chocolate and coffee, instead of the typical caramel or berry sauce.
Try these delicious variations too:
And if you are coffee dessert lovers, here are some not to be missed:
To prepare the coffee panna cotta, start by making the coffee with the moka pot. Soak the gelatin in very cold water . Pour the cream into a saucepan and add the coffee .
Add the sugar and vanilla extract ; bring to just below boiling, stirring often .
Drain the now-softened gelatin and add it to the hot cream mixture off the heat . Stir with a spoon until completely dissolved .
Pour the mixture into 6 molds with a capacity of about 4 1/4 fluid ounces . Cover with plastic wrap and let rest in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours. When ready to serve, prepare the accompanying sauce. Finely chop the chocolate .
Pour the coffee into a small saucepan and heat it. Then add the dark chocolate and stir until you get a fluid sauce , then transfer to a small bowl and let cool.
Meanwhile, unmold the panna cotta: immerse the molds in hot water for a few seconds, wetting only the outside, without letting water penetrate inside; then turn the panna cotta upside down onto a serving plate . Decorate with the coffee sauce , if you prefer, add some coffee beans and serve immediately !
Coffee panna cotta can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3-4 days, well covered with plastic wrap, or in an airtight container.
Serve the coffee panna cotta at the moment to prevent the sauce on the surface from solidifying. If you want to prepare the sauce in advance, you can heat it in the microwave for a few seconds before pouring it over the panna cotta. If you don't have a moka pot, you can dissolve instant coffee in the same amount of water (5.3 oz for the panna cotta and 2.4 oz for the sauce). Instead of vanilla, you can flavor the coffee with a pinch of cinnamon or cardamom (in this case, leave the pods to infuse until the coffee is cold, then strain and add to the cream as per the recipe).

