name:
Crispy Potato Fritters
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.75lbs(750 g)- (about 4)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste-
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 14 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 18 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Ready for a new adventure in the "Perfect Frying" series? Crispy potato fritters are one of the most delicious appetizers out there, irresistible just like all potato recipes , one of the most versatile and appreciated ingredients in the kitchen! Fritters have always been a guarantee of success on the table: golden on the outside, soft on the inside, they can be made with many different seasonal vegetables, perhaps enriched with melting cheeses or diced cold cuts, but they are also excellent in their simpler version, like the recipe we propose here.
Let yourself be tempted by our crispy potato fritters and try these tasty recipes as well:
To prepare the crispy potato fritters, first peel the potatoes , then grate them using a medium-small hole grater , add the flour, coarsely chopped rosemary, salt, and pepper .
Mix to obtain a homogeneous and rather soft mixture . Heat about 2 inches of oil in a pan and bring it to 355°F. Take a spoonful of the mixture , with another spoon let the mixture slide into the pan and fry a few fritters at a time, to avoid lowering the oil temperature too much and not getting a good result . Cook for 3-4 minutes, or until they are nicely golden.
Drain and place the fritters on paper towels , salt, and serve the crispy potato fritters hot !
Store in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days. Do not freeze.
If the grated potatoes release too much water, they can be drained before seasoning.
If left in contact with air for too long, the potatoes will darken, so it is advisable to make the mixture and use it as soon as possible.
If you want to bake the crispy potato fritters, follow this procedure: form the fritters on a parchment paper greased with oil, brush with more oil, bake in a preheated convection oven at 450°F for 10 minutes, then switch to grill mode, still at 450°F, for 6 minutes.
It is advisable not to use a grater with too large holes, otherwise the mixture may not hold together.
If you want to use a different grater than the one we recommend, it would be better to test a small portion of potatoes and mixture, to ensure it does not fall apart.

