name:
Custard Ice Cream
ingredients:
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 ml)
Egg yolks: ½cup(100 g)
Sugar: 0.87cup(175 g)
Vanilla bean: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note Cooling time in the refrigerator 2 hours and in the freezer for 3 hours

instructions:
Custard ice cream is one of the most appreciated flavors in the world, easy to prepare as it uses egg yolks, which give it a delicate and harmonious color. Thanks to the air particles formed within the mixture during the process, custard ice cream appears soft and frothy. You can enjoy custard ice cream on its own inside a delicious Ice cream cone , use it as a base to fill cakes, create affogatos with coffee or chocolate, or accompany it with your favorite desserts... you can even serve it Fried ice cream !
Discover other delicious homemade ice cream flavors:
To prepare custard ice cream, pour the milk into a saucepan and add the sugar ; mix and add the egg yolks and beat with a whisk.
Now, add the vanilla bean, which you have cut open and scraped out the seeds from . Bring the mixture to 185°F (not a degree more, or the eggs will coagulate) while continuously stirring, then turn off the heat and remove the vanilla bean from the mixture .
Immerse the saucepan in ice water to quickly lower the temperature ; during this operation, continuously stir the mixture. When the mixture is cold, let it rest in the refrigerator for at least two hours. Before putting the mixture in the ice cream maker, place it in the freezer until it becomes very cold but still liquid. Pour the mixture into an ice cream maker and let it churn until you obtain a thick and creamy ice cream . Pour the ice cream into a container with a lid and let it set in the freezer for at least 3-4 hours before consuming it (it would be better to leave it there overnight).
Custard ice cream can be stored in the freezer in an airtight container for up to 1 week.
Custard ice cream is an excellent accompaniment for desserts such as strudel , cakes, or cookies.

