name:
Vanilla Ice Cream
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: 0.7cup(170 g)
Whole milk: 1 ½cup(370 g)
Sugar: 0.7cup(140 g)
Vanilla bean: 1

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 3 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + 3 hours of cooling in the freezer

instructions:
If the summer heat is relentless, indulge in the pleasure of a cold dessert, or rather... ice cream! There are no frills in this recipe, but precisely for this reason, we are sure that vanilla ice cream will win you over with its simplicity! A mix of milk and cream flavored with fragrant vanilla bean: a delicate taste that everyone loves! Ideal for an afternoon snack, to conclude a good meal, or to dig a spoon into a generous cup while chatting with friends on the home balcony. We also give you an extra tip for enjoying ice cream in winter: try it to accompany the sweet cubes of Sticky toffee pudding ! However you decide to savor it, we are sure this "below zero" goodness will bring a breath of good humor with its freshness! Serve the vanilla ice cream along with a scoop of coffee ice cream , you will taste how delicious it is!
If you love citrus flavors instead, don't miss our refreshing Lemon Ice Cream !
To prepare the vanilla ice cream, take the vanilla bean, slit it, and scrape the inner pulp with a knife blade . Set aside. Then take a saucepan with high edges and pour in milk and cream .
Then add the sugar and the seeds from the vanilla bean , along with the vanilla bean itself to flavor the mixture.
Heat gently to dissolve the sugar while stirring with a hand whisk : it will take about 2-3 minutes. The mixture should be close to boiling. When it reaches temperature, turn off the heat and remove the vanilla bean . Let the mixture cool until it reaches room temperature. At this point, pour the mixture into the ice cream maker . For this ice cream maker, it is not necessary to cool the bowl in the refrigerator.
Let the ice cream maker run for about 30 minutes until it is thick and creamy . At this point, transfer it to a low and wide container, preferably glass or steel, and put it in the freezer, closed, for at least 3 hours before consuming it. Your vanilla ice cream is ready to be enjoyed !
Vanilla ice cream can be stored in the freezer, well closed in an airtight container (preferably glass or steel), for up to 1 week.
Craving stracciatella? Then 3 minutes before finishing the ice cream production, add some chocolate chips! They will mix into your cream ice cream without melting!
A little tip to impress your friends: take the ice cream out of the freezer 10 minutes before serving to enjoy it slightly softened and not frozen.
If you wish, you can garnish the ice cream with some nuts such as walnuts or hazelnuts !

