name:
Pasta with White Fish Ragù
ingredients:
Spaghettoni: 11.3oz(320 g)
Cod fillet: 8.8oz(250 g)- cleaned
Dentex fish: 0.9lb(400 g)- whole
Yellow onions: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Brandy: 1oz(30 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fresh chili pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Pasta with white fish ragù is a first course with intriguing notes that will enrich your seafood menus. Here we offer you a dice of dentix and cod chunks sautéed in a pan with aromas, chili pepper, and the flambé touch of brandy that will give a rich aroma to this dish, satisfying the senses with its rich and inviting flavor. To prepare this delicacy, start by carefully selecting the freshest snapper and cod available. These two fish offer an extraordinary combination of marine flavors, with the delicacy of the snapper perfectly harmonizing with the firm and meaty texture of the cod, which will also give a creamy touch to the ragù. If these spaghettoni inspire you, don't stop here and try other delicious pasta with fish recipes:
To prepare the pasta with white fish ragù, start by cleaning and filleting the dentix: first, make an incision in the belly to gut it. Then cut off the fins and remove the head .
Cut the fish in half to get the fillets , and remove the belly part as well . Do not discard the cleaning scraps as they will be used later to make a fish broth.
Once you have the two fillets, skin them by running the knife blade from the tail while keeping the skin tight . Now remove the bones with the appropriate tweezers . Cut the dentix into cubes of less than 1 inch .
Cut the cod into the same size . Place the dentix bones and scraps in a pot .
Toast the scraps well, then cover with 2 ladles of water, salt, and bring to a boil . Clean and chop the onion . In a pan, pour the oil, onion, parsley sprigs, and chili pepper . Sauté the onion until golden.
Add the fish chunks and let them brown for a few minutes, then remove the chili pepper and parsley sprigs . Deglaze with the brandy .
Flambé with a torch or with the stove flames. Salt and add a ladle of water , cook for another 2 minutes. Boil the spaghettoni .
While the pasta is cooking, chop the parsley leaves, thyme, and marjoram . Drain the spaghetti a few minutes early and add them to the pan with the fish . Add the filtered fish broth and if needed, some cooking water.
Finish the pasta off the heat by stirring in oil, lemon zest , chopped herbs , and pepper. Plate the pasta with white fish ragù and decorate with fresh marjoram .
We recommend consuming the pasta with white fish ragù immediately.
To make the fish ragù, you can use any other type of fish from the dentix family, such as sea bream.

