name:
How to Clean and Open Mussels
ingredients:
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- fresh

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: pieces

instructions:
The mussels : for those who love them, there are many delicious recipes for seafood lunches or dinners to share. But how do you open mussels? We show you how to open raw mussels, then stuff and fry them as per Puglian tradition, or how to make them open in a pan... but only after properly cleaning them! Mussels must be chosen carefully and cleaned very well, scrubbing the outer shell and pulling away the "byssus," the beard that sticks out. But first things first, how do you recognize a fresh mussel? We can already tell you: the shell should be tightly closed, the shell black and shiny, and it should have a light and pleasant sea smell! Arm yourself with a knife (or a scrubber) and clean many mussels with us to create delicious recipes:
To clean and open mussels, start by scraping the shell with the back of a knife blade to remove impurities . You can also perform this operation with a scrubber, scrubbing well. Then pull away the byssus from each mussel .
Rinse the mussels well, scrubbing them gently by hand multiple times under running water until the water becomes quite clear . Now you can proceed with opening them raw if the recipe calls for it, like this: hold each mussel between your fingers, with the other hand run the tip of the knife blade along the entire edge until you reach the joint , then with gentle movements, without forcing, open the mussel by sliding the two halves of the shell between your fingers . The meat should remain intact and stay on one shell: this is also a sign of freshness. It takes a bit of skill; you can proceed like this for all.
If the recipe calls for opening the mussels after cooking, you can pour them into a slightly heated pan . Turn on the heat to medium-high and cover with a lid . Let them open, shaking the pan occasionally, for a few minutes; as soon as they open, you can remove them from the heat . You can decide to flavor them with fresh chili, garlic, or deglaze with white wine before covering with the lid. Your raw or cooked mussels are cleaned and opened, ready to be used in your favorite recipes.
Always make sure to buy fresh mussels: check the shine of the shells and if they emit a pleasant sea smell. Also, always check the expiration date to ensure it is not too close.
It is better to clean and use the mussels immediately after purchasing, otherwise (like clams), you can clean them as explained and keep them in a bowl, immersed in cold water in the fridge for up to one day.

Opening mussels by hand requires delicacy and skill, don't give up on the first try!
If the meat separates on both sides of the shell when opening, it is a sign of a lack of freshness. The meat should remain intact and full on one half of the shell.

