name:
Angelica Cake
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1cup(135 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(13 g)
Water: ⅓cup(75 g)
Malt: 1tsp
Manitoba flour: 3.4cups(400 g)
Sugar: ⅓cup(75 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(120 g)- warm
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Butter: ½cup(120 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 3.5oz(100 g)
Egg yolks: 3- medium
Egg whites: 1
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- melted

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note plus the rising time of about 3 hours

instructions:
The Angelica cake is a soft and tasty braid with a truly scenic appearance. This is the famous recipe by the Simili Sisters slightly revisited: the original dessert indeed includes the use of raisins and candied orange inside, while we opted for chocolate chips, making the cake more appreciated by children. The Angelica cake requires a rather complex preparation and at least an afternoon of work, but the result will leave everyone literally speechless!
Don't miss our delicious savory variants Savory beer angelica and with zucchini !
To make the Angelica cake, start by preparing the yeast mixture: put the warm water in a bowl, dissolve a teaspoon of malt or sugar (optional) in it, and add the crumbled fresh yeast . Stir to dissolve the ingredients well, then add them to the flour and knead until you get a smooth dough that you will shape into a ball . Place the dough in a bowl, cover it with plastic wrap, and let it rise for half an hour in a warm and draft-free place (it should double in volume).
In the meantime, prepare the dough: cut the butter into cubes and let it soften at room temperature. Pour the sugar into the milk and then the egg yolks, beating with a whisk to break them , the salt, and add everything to the flour, then knead. Add the butter and work the dough for at least 10 minutes until it is very elastic and detaches from the sides of the bowl.
When the yeast mixture is ready, add it to the dough obtained and then mix them together homogeneously ; shape the dough into a ball and place it in a buttered bowl, then let it rise for at least two hours until it doubles in volume .
After the necessary time has passed, pour the dough onto a floured work surface and, without working it, roll it out with a rolling pin to form a rectangle about 1/8 inch thick; brush the obtained sheet with melted butter , sprinkle it with dark chocolate chips (the original version calls for 2.6 oz of raisins mixed with 2.6 oz of candied orange peel), then roll it up along the longer side leaving the closure at the bottom .
Cut the roll in half with a thin and floured knife , then separate the two parts and braid them, taking care to keep the cut part facing up so that the sections and its filling can be seen . Shape the braid into a ring that you will place on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper,
brush it with melted butter and let it rise for 30-40 minutes in a warm place so it doubles in volume. Bake in a static oven at 350°F for about 40 minutes and halfway through baking, check that the ring is not too dark on the surface, otherwise cover it with aluminum foil and continue baking. In the meantime, prepare the glaze by beating an egg white with 5.3 oz of powdered sugar with a fork . As soon as you get a dense glaze, pour it over the freshly baked Angelica cake .
You can replace the chocolate chips with 2.6 oz of raisins + 2.6 oz of candied orange peel, as the original Simili Sisters' recipe calls for.

