name:
Spaghettoni with Raw Shrimp
ingredients:
Spaghettoni: 11.3oz(320 g)
White wine: ⅓cup(70 g)
Shrimps: 20- red
Lime: 1
Carrots: 1
Yellow onions: 1- small
Celery: 1rib
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Ice: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Shrimp pasta is a first course that never goes out of style, but this time we want to offer you a truly exquisite version! Spaghettoni with raw shrimp encapsulate all the flavor of these crustaceans; the pasta is cooked in a rich and tasty broth and absorbs all its aromas! By using the shrimp scraps after cleaning, you will get an aromatic "broth" that you will use to finish cooking the pasta; while the shrimp meat will be added raw only at the end, a fresh touch to preserve their delicate flavor! Spaghettoni perfectly absorb this seasoning and are one of the most suitable pasta shapes for this dish! Here are more recipes you can't miss:
To prepare the spaghettoni with raw shrimp, remove the head and, using scissors, separate the eyes, as they would be bitter. Collect them in a small bowl as you go along. Then remove the shell, also with your hands. Once you have cleaned the shrimp, remove the black vein using a toothpick .
Peel the onion and slice it . Then do the same with the carrots and celery .
In a saucepan, pour a drizzle of oil and add the shrimp heads . Add the vegetables , stir , and brown over high heat. Deglaze with white wine and let the alcohol evaporate.
Add some ice and cook over medium heat for 40 minutes . After this time, strain the mixture and press with the back of a spoon to extract all the juices.
Cook the pasta in plenty of salted water for 3 minutes. Meanwhile, pour the broth into a pan and season with salt .
Take the shrimp and coarsely chop them . Transfer them to a bowl, season with the grated zest of half a lime and a drizzle of oil .
Add the juice of half a lime , a pinch of salt , and mix . Place in the refrigerator.
Drain the spaghetti and put them in the pan with the broth ; cook them, adding the cooking water . Turn off the heat, drizzle with a little oil, and add chopped parsley .
Add a little more lime zest and mix the pasta well . Serve it, placing the raw shrimp on top .
We recommend serving the spaghetti with raw shrimp immediately.
If you prefer, you can also use cold water instead of ice. You can use lemon instead of lime.
Before consuming raw, marinated, or undercooked fish, it is recommended to freeze it for at least 96 hours at 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius) in a household freezer marked with 3 or more stars.

