name:
Fried Cod with Avocado Cream
ingredients:
Desalted cod: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Panko: 2cups(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Avocado: 2- ripe
Lime juice: 1
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Instant flour for polenta: 0.4cup(50 g)
Water: 1cup(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Raspberries: 2cups(300 g)
Water: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Almond slices: to taste- toasted
Thyme: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Edible flowers: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Fried cod is a must for the holidays, but in this version, you can showcase it for the most romantic and special occasions: fried cod with avocado cream! An entree with an appealing and colorful look, served with crunchy polenta chips and a simple raspberry sauce for a touch of acidity. Thanks to the use of panko , the typical Japanese breadcrumbs, the frying is light and airy and contrasts with the creamy texture of the avocado. For a striking presentation, we also added almond flakes and edible flowers, which make the fried cod with avocado cream a highly impressive dish, ideal even as an appetizer!
If you like fried cod, don't miss these variants:
To make fried cod with avocado cream, first prepare the polenta to make the chips: in a saucepan, bring water to a boil with a drizzle of oil and a pinch of salt, then gradually pour in the cornmeal while stirring with a whisk . Lower the heat slightly and let the mixture thicken, continuing to stir with the whisk . Once it reaches the right consistency, pour the polenta onto a sheet of parchment paper .
Cover with another sheet of parchment paper and roll out the polenta with a rolling pin to make it very thin. Transfer everything to a baking sheet and bake in a preheated convection oven at 350°F for about 30 minutes. After this time, remove from the oven and let cool .
While the polenta is in the oven, you can prepare the cod: it will already be desalted, but rinse it again under running water and then pat dry. Remove the skin with a sharp knife, trying not to remove too much flesh . Cut the flesh into pieces about 1.5-2 inches in size . In a bowl, season the eggs with salt and pepper , then beat them with a fork. Pour the flour and panko into 2 other bowls and proceed with the breading.
First pass the pieces in the flour, making sure to remove the excess , then in the egg and finally in the panko .
As you bread the cod, place the pieces on a tray . Place the tray in the refrigerator and prepare the avocado cream: cut the avocado in half , scoop out the pulp and place it in a bowl, then add the lime juice .
Add the chopped chili pepper, with the seeds removed , salt, and pepper . Mash everything with a fork to make a cream . Also place the avocado cream in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap.
Lastly, prepare the raspberry sauce: put the raspberries in a saucepan , add a splash of water , and cook for about 5 minutes over medium heat .
When the raspberries are softened, pour them into a sieve placed over a bowl and press with a spatula to strain and remove the seeds .
You are ready to fry: cut the polenta into rectangles . Heat the vegetable oil to a temperature of 350°F and fry a few pieces at a time until golden , then drain on paper towels .
In the same oil, fry the cod pieces and once golden, drain them also on paper towels . Salt to taste .
Now you can plate: using 2 teaspoons, form quenelles of avocado cream , then add the polenta chips and a few drops of raspberry sauce .
Complete with toasted almond flakes and some thyme and marjoram leaves. If desired, you can garnish with edible flowers as well . Your fried cod with avocado cream is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the fried cod with avocado cream immediately.
If desired, you can prepare some components a few hours in advance and store them in the refrigerator, then fry at the last moment.
If the avocado is not ripe enough to mash with a fork, you can blend it with an immersion blender.
You can buy pre-desalted cod, or do it at home by following our instructions on How to Desalt Cod .
For a delicious variation with salmon, we recommend the Crispy Salmon with Panko recipe!

