name:
Air Fryer Stuffed Peaches
ingredients:
Nectarines: 2
Lemon peel: to taste
Mint: to taste
Whole grain flour: 0.4oz(10 g)
Brown sugar: 2 ⅓tsp(10 g)
Butter: 0.4oz(10 g)- (very cold)
Peeled almonds: 0.4oz(10 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ½cup(125 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ⅔tbsp(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 13 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
The peaches keep us company in summer with their intense flavor and many varieties. Among the desserts with nectarines, we invite you to try the air fryer stuffed peaches! A very simple dessert to make, with few ingredients and without turning on the oven! In fact, they can be cooked in an air fryer and in a few minutes you will serve a delicious summer treat to lick your lips. If you have already tried the Baked stuffed peaches and the Robiola-stuffed peaches with spicy cherry sauce , You won't be able to resist this delightful summer treat, perfect for sharing with friends or serving as a dessert after your special mid-August lunch celebration, a traditional Italian holiday feast enjoyed during the peak of summer! Also discover:
To prepare the air fryer stuffed peaches, start by cutting the peaches in half to remove the pit , then slightly scoop them out with a teaspoon. Then place them in the air fryer , set the temperature to 390°F and cook for 8 minutes.
Meanwhile, prepare the crumble: finely chop the peeled almonds . In a small bowl, pour the whole wheat flour, brown sugar , and ice-cold butter cut into cubes .
With your fingertips, work the ingredients and, when they are homogeneous, add the chopped almonds . Work quickly again with your fingertips to avoid warming the butter too much, then the crumble will be ready .
Stuff the peaches , then cook in the air fryer at 390°F for another 5 minutes. When they are ready, take them out of the air fryer and let them cool slightly . Prepare the ricotta cream by adding powdered sugar to the cow's milk ricotta .
Hand-tear a few mint leaves and grate the lemon zest . Briefly mix everything to obtain a homogeneous cream .
Using 2 teaspoons, shape the cream into a quenelle to distribute some on each stuffed peach . Grate more lemon zest to taste and decorate with mint leaves . The air fryer stuffed peaches are ready to be enjoyed!
It's best to consume the air fryer stuffed peaches within a few hours.
Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of cow's milk ricotta, you could try sheep's milk ricotta or a cheese like goat cheese.


