name:
Shellfish Stock
ingredients:
Shellfish: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (only the shells of prawns, scampi, and shrimp)
Onions: ½cup(100 g)
Celery: 1cup(100 g)
Carrots: ½cup(100 g)
White wine: 2cups(150 g)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Fine salt: to taste
Ground black pepper: 5
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Have you ever heard of shellfish stock? Today we will show you all the tricks to make it at home. The shellfish stock, along with the fish stock , is part of the kitchen foundations, preparations that are never an end in themselves, but that are used to flavor sauces, dressings, first and second courses. It is different from the classic bisque , which is a preparation that stands on its own, a truly delicious soup. Shellfish stock is made with scraps from a single variety of shellfish or a mix of shrimp, prawns, lobsters, and is therefore an excellent anti-waste recipe, very simple to make. From now on, after cleaning the shellfish, remember not to throw away the heads and shells but use them as the base for the stock to enhance your fish dishes! In this cooking school sheet, we will show you how to prepare an excellent stock so you can have it ready whenever you want to add a touch of flavor to your fish dishes. Here are some recipes with shellfish stock to try:
To prepare the shellfish stock, you will need 2.2 lbs of mixed shellfish shells: shrimp, prawns, scampi . Then prepare the vegetables for the sauté. Cut the celery into pieces, keeping the leaves as well . Peel the carrot and cut it to the same size .
Then peel the onion and also cut it into cubes . Gather all the vegetables in a bowl and set them aside. Take a large pot and pour in a dash of oil. Let it heat over medium-high heat, then add the shellfish shells .
Once poured into the pot , add the previously cut vegetables . Add a good pinch of salt and the black peppercorns .
Stir and deglaze with the white wine . Let the alcohol evaporate and then add the water . Slightly lower the temperature and cook for 30 minutes .
During this time, if foam forms on the surface, you can remove it using a skimmer. Strain the obtained shellfish stock using a fine-mesh chinois and press the shellfish with the back of a ladle to extract all the juices . The shellfish stock is ready , use it in your recipes!
The shellfish stock can be kept in the refrigerator for 2 days. Alternatively, it can be frozen in an airtight container, or in a glass jar, to always have it ready.
If you prefer, you can also not peel the carrots for the sauté, just wash them well.
The stock can be made with a single type of shellfish, or different types from those we suggested, even lobster works! The ratio between shells and water is 1:1. That is, using 2.2 lbs of shells and 1 quart of water, you will get an intense flavor. If you prefer a more delicate stock, increase the amount of water or reduce the quantity of shells.

