name:
Rice Salad with Salmon and Vegetables
ingredients:
Rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)- variety for salads
Red peppers: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Zucchini: 1lb(450 g)
Smoked Salmon: 8.8oz(250 g)
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
In summer, we crave fresh and light dishes that are easy and quick to prepare, just like the rice salad with salmon and vegetables we present in this recipe! A tasty rice salad made with few ingredients but rich in taste and color, ideal to bring to the beach or as a lunchbox for the office. The crunchy texture of the zucchini and bell peppers briefly sautéed in the pan blends with the intense flavor of the smoked salmon and the fresh and pungent aroma of parsley: a simple and appetizing one-dish meal that can also become a practical dinner saver!
If you enjoyed the rice salad with salmon and vegetables, we also recommend:
To prepare the rice salad with salmon and vegetables, first, put a pot of water on the stove to cook the rice. Prepare the vegetables: cut the bell peppers in half and remove the seeds and internal filaments , then cut them into thin strips . Trim the zucchini and cut them into chunks .
When the water reaches a boil, salt it and cook the rice for the time indicated on the package . Meanwhile, place the vegetables in a pan and season with oil and salt .
Add the chopped parsley and cook the vegetables over high heat for a few minutes: they should not be too soft but still crunchy . Once cooked, drain the rice and transfer it to a large bowl .
Season with a drizzle of oil , mix, and let cool to room temperature. Meanwhile, cut the smoked salmon into pieces . Add the salmon to the slightly cooled rice .
Also add the sautéed vegetables and another drizzle of oil , then mix well. You can enjoy your rice salad with salmon and vegetables right away or, even better, let it rest in the refrigerator for a couple of hours !
The rice salad with salmon and vegetables can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
If you prefer, you can use Venere rice, red rice, or brown rice, or you can make a delicious cold pasta dish following the same recipe!
Instead of smoked salmon, you can add canned tuna or sautéed shrimp.

