name:
Grandma's Stuffed Tomatoes
ingredients:
Cluster tomatoes: 6
Tuscan bread: 3.5oz(100 g)
Pecorino toscano cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Red Tropea onions: 1
Basil: to taste
Water: to taste
White wine vinegar: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Among all the stuffed tomatoes we have tried, today's version is perhaps the simplest and most homely! Grandma's stuffed tomatoes, in fact, are filled with just a few raw ingredients: bread crumbs, tomato pulp, Pecorino cheese, basil, and onion... nothing more is needed to create this appetizing second course with a Mediterranean aroma, without meat or fish. Don't be afraid to turn on the oven because the result will be well worth it, and grandma's stuffed tomatoes will take you back in time, letting you relive the tasty memories of her delicacies!
Also, try these stuffed tomato recipes:
To make grandma's stuffed tomatoes, first cut off the tops of the tomatoes and set them aside, then scoop out the pulp with a spoon and set it aside too . Lightly salt the insides of the tomatoes .
Turn the tomatoes upside down on a rack and let them rest so they lose excess liquid. Meanwhile, continue with the rest of the recipe: remove the crust from the bread and cut the bread into cubes .
Roughly chop the tomato pulp and transfer it to a bowl , then add the bread cubes .
Add a drizzle of oil and some torn basil leaves , mix and let it macerate at room temperature for 30 minutes.
In the meantime, peel and chop the onion . Pour the water and vinegar into a bowl , immerse the chopped onion and let it soak for 10 minutes .
After this time, drain the onion and add it to the bread mixture . Add a pinch of salt and grated Pecorino, keeping some aside for the top . Mix to combine everything .
Take the emptied tomatoes and place them in a baking dish lined with parchment paper, then fill them with the mixture until forming a dome . Garnish the top with the reserved Pecorino and a drizzle of oil .
Cover the tomatoes with their tops and bake in a preheated fan oven at 390°F for about 25 minutes. Once cooked, take the stuffed tomatoes out of the oven and let them cool . Your grandma's stuffed tomatoes are ready to be served !
Grandma's stuffed tomatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
If desired, you can use stale bread.

