name:
Spaghetti with Fresh Tomato, Basil, and Stracciatella
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 2cups(500 g)
Basil: 4cups(100 g)
Stracciatella cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Corn oil: ¾cup(180 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Spaghetti with tomato , our Italian pride! In summer it turns into another genuine and tasty first course: spaghetti with fresh tomato, basil, and stracciatella. Just the title itself suggests that with only 3 carefully chosen ingredients, you can obtain a delicious pasta dish with Mediterranean flavors, perfect for summer menus. Choose good quality spaghetti or thick spaghetti, the best cherry tomatoes, the most fragrant basil, and the freshest and most delicious stracciatella. A trio of ingredients that make up this exquisite tricolor dish in its simplicity.
Also discover:
To prepare spaghetti with fresh tomato, basil, and stracciatella, wash and then blend the cherry tomatoes with an immersion blender . Once you obtain a smooth cream, strain it through a fine-mesh sieve using a spoon . Set aside.
Move on to the basil oil: blanch the leaves for 30 seconds in boiling water , then drain them and place them in a bowl with ice water so that they retain their bright color. Now squeeze the leaves .
Blend them with the seed oil . Then pass the resulting puree through a sieve lined with a paper towel .
This way, you will obtain a smooth oil . Cook the spaghetti al dente in boiling salted water to taste . In the meantime, in a pan (with the heat off), pour the obtained tomato sauce, add salt and pepper, and some basil leaves .
Drain the spaghetti (reserving some cooking water) into the pan with the sauce and only then turn on the stove. Finish cooking the pasta in the pan by adding a ladle of cooking water . At the end of cooking, add the basil oil and toss.
Plate by adding more tomato sauce , a drizzle of basil oil, and some dollops of stracciatella . The spaghetti with fresh tomato, basil, and stracciatella is ready to be enjoyed !
You can prepare the cherry tomato sauce 1 day in advance.
You can prepare the basil oil and store it in a jar for 1-2 days in the fridge.

You can also use Piccadilly or Datterini tomatoes.
Only detach the basil leaves and not the stems, which give a bitter taste.
Basil oil is also perfect for dressing salads or other first courses!

