name:
Swordfish Meatballs in Sauce
ingredients:
Swordfish: 1.1lbs(500 g)- steak (already cleaned)
Bread: 5.3oz(150 g)
Eggs: 2
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2spoonfuls
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Tomato purée: 2cups(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Swordfish meatballs in sauce are a delicious variant of classic meatballs in sauce . Instead of ground meat, you just need to blend the swordfish and combine it with the typical ingredients: bread, eggs, and cheese. This way, you'll get soft meatballs to cook in the sauce... you can serve them as a second course or, why not, use them to dress spaghetti! Browning the meatballs ensures perfect cooking; this way, they will be soft but not fall apart. Making swordfish meatballs in sauce is really simple, discover our recipe to impress your guests!
How to cook swordfish?
With swordfish, you can make first courses, second courses, and many appetizers! Here are our recipes with swordfish not to be missed:
How to make meatballs?
If you're wondering how many ways there are to make meatballs, there are really many! You can make meat meatballs , vegetable meatballs, or fish meatballs like the ones we propose today. But how to cook meatballs? You can cook them stewed , fried, baked or in sauce!
Discover our best meatball recipes:
To prepare the swordfish meatballs in sauce, first cut the swordfish steak, already free of bones and skin, into cubes . Immerse it in lightly salted boiling water along with the bay leaves .
Cook for 5 minutes, then drain it . Cut the bread into pieces and transfer it to a food processor ; add the chopped parsley and the garlic clove.
Also add the grated Grana Padano PDO , a pinch of salt, and blend everything until you get crumbs . Then transfer to a large bowl and place the swordfish in the food processor , without washing it.
Blend the swordfish as well and transfer it to the bowl with the bread . Then add the eggs .
Mix well until you get a homogeneous mixture . Form about 17 meatballs by taking a portion of the mixture and shaping it into a round shape . Heat a pan with a drizzle of oil and place the meatballs inside .
Brown them well on all sides , then transfer them to a plate. In the same pan, add a garlic clove and the tomato sauce . Season with salt and pepper . Let it cook for a few minutes and, as soon as it starts to simmer, remove the garlic clove.
Dive the meatballs into the sauce , flavor with chopped parsley , and stir gently .
Cover with a lid and continue cooking for about 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. As soon as the meatballs are ready , plate and garnish with chopped parsley. Serve your swordfish meatballs in sauce hot !
You can store the swordfish meatballs in sauce in the refrigerator for up to 1-2 days, closed in an airtight container. Cooked meatballs can be frozen along with the sauce.
You can use Pecorino instead of Grana Padano PDO for a stronger flavor!

