name:
Lemon Dessert
ingredients:
Fresh liquid cream: 4 ¼cups(1 l)- with 33% fat
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Lemon peel: 4- organic
Lemon juice: 0.8cup(200 g)
Sugar: to taste
Lemon peel: to taste
Mint: to taste
Biscotti: to taste- cat tongue cookies

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the chilling times for the cream (2 h) and the dessert (24 h)

instructions:
We hosted chef Enrico Derflingher, personal chef to the Royal Family of the United Kingdom from 1987 to 1990, in our kitchens, and he showed us how to make a delicious lemon dessert, one of King Charles's favorites. This spoon dessert is made with only three ingredients and is very easy to prepare at home, but there are a few precautions to keep in mind. First, choose excellent organic lemons; since we will use both the zest and the juice, it is important that they are untreated and of high quality to achieve an intense aroma and flavor. This Lemon Cream is made without starches or gelatin, utilizing the coagulation technique. By pouring the lemon juice into the heated cream at a certain temperature, the cream will magically thicken! A long resting time is necessary to achieve the right consistency, and your royal lemon dessert will be ready to serve! Discover other dishes proposed by chef Derflinger:
Don't miss these delicious lemon desserts:
To prepare the lemon dessert, first pour the cream and sugar into a pot , then mix with a spatula . Wash the lemons thoroughly and with a knife or peeler, remove the zest (only the yellow part) .
Add the lemon zest to the pot and mix , then cover and let rest in the refrigerator for 2 hours. After this time, put the pot on the stove and cook over very low heat until it begins to steam slightly.
Measure the temperature with a thermometer , it should reach 150-155°F. At this point, remove it from the heat and pour the lemon juice all at once . Stir and you will see the cream begin to coagulate immediately.
At this stage, you need to be very quick; otherwise, the cream will tend to thicken too much. Strain it through a fine-mesh sieve to remove the lemon zest and obtain a smooth cream .
Pour it immediately into the cups until about half an inch from the edge ; with these amounts, you will get 12 servings of about 3.5 oz each. Transfer to a tray , cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate for 24 hours. After this time, the cream will have solidified, and you can serve it. Sprinkle the cups with a little sugar .
Garnish with grated lemon zest and a mint leaf . Accompany your lemon dessert with cat tongue cookies !
The lemon dessert can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days, well covered. Freezing is not recommended.
Once you pour the lemon juice, you need to move quickly because the cream tends to solidify. In this case, it will be difficult to pour it into the cups.

