name:
Creamy Paccheri with Fried Eggplant
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Eggplant: 1
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)
Salted ricotta cheese: to taste
Pine nuts: 1spoonful- toasted
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste- (for frying)
Peeled plum tomatoes: 14.1oz(400 g)
Shallot: 1
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 30 min. to purge the eggplants

instructions:
Creamy Paccheri with Fried Eggplant is a tasty pasta dish, a creamy twist on the traditional Pasta alla Norma . Compared to the classic recipe, here you will find a pasta with a smooth and velvety sauce. The addition of fresh basil and a sprinkling of salted ricotta complete the creamy paccheri with fried eggplant, giving freshness and the unique taste of this aged cheese. A perfect blend of tradition and innovation that will win you over at the first bite!
Take advantage of the warm season to prepare other delicious eggplant pasta recipes :
To prepare paccheri with fried eggplant cream, wash and trim the eggplant , then cut it into slices about 1/2 inch thick and finally dice them . Place the cubes in a colander and lightly salt them . Let them drain for about 30 minutes; this will make them drier so they won't absorb too much oil during frying.
Meanwhile, prepare the sauce: heat a splash of oil in a pan with the chopped shallot . Let the shallot soften, then add the peeled tomatoes and salt .
Season with pepper and fresh basil and cook for 5 minutes; set the sauce aside. Retrieve the eggplants, and squeeze them lightly with your hands . Heat the vegetable oil in a saucepan to 340°F, then immerse the eggplants .
Fry until golden, it will only take a few minutes. Drain on a tray lined with paper towels . Now retrieve the sauce set aside .
Pour it into a pitcher , add a couple of tablespoons of eggplant and the grated Grana Padano PDO .
Blend everything with an immersion blender until you get a smooth cream . Cook the paccheri in plenty of salted water .
Reheat the eggplant cream in the pan with the diced eggplants , then drain the paccheri al dente and add them here along with a ladle of pasta water to complete the cooking .
Finish with the pine nuts and stir. Serve on plates with a sprinkle of grated salted ricotta and fresh basil leaves. The creamy paccheri with fried eggplant is ready to be served !
We recommend consuming the creamy paccheri with fried eggplant immediately.
Looking for a different aromatic touch? Try garnishing the pasta with fresh mint leaves instead of basil.

