name:
Lemon Poppy Seed Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Sugar: 1.4cups(275 g)
Eggs: 7.1oz(200 g)- (about 4 small)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.6cup(145 g)
Butter: 6tbsp(85 g)
Lemon peel: 2
Poppy seeds: 2tsp(10 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp(9 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Butter: to taste
Powdered sugar: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Lemon juice: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time of the pound cake and the drying time of the glaze

instructions:
Perfect for breakfast or tea time, the lemon poppy seed cake is a typical Anglo-Saxon dessert that you absolutely must not miss! A delicious lemon loaf characterized by the crunchy note of poppy seeds and a citrus-scented white glaze. This soft butter batter can also be baked in molds other than a loaf pan to make muffins or a scenic bundt cake, for example. Prepare this easy and delicious recipe created for us by Tine, the soul of the Fòla pastry shop in Milan... we are sure it will become a delightful habit!
After tasting the lemon poppy seed cake, don't miss these other variants:
To prepare the lemon poppy seed cake, first melt the butter in a saucepan or microwave, then add the poppy seeds and the grated lemon zest . Stir and let the mixture infuse at room temperature for a few minutes .
Place the eggs in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment , start it at medium-low speed and add the sugar . Increase the speed and mix for 2 minutes, then pour in the infused butter .
At this point, slightly lower the speed and add the cream in a slow stream . In a separate bowl, mix the flour with the baking powder and the salt .
Incorporate the dry ingredients by increasing the speed again and continue to work the mixture until it is well-whipped . Grease a 10x3.5x3-inch pan and fill it with the batter . Bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for 55 minutes.
Check the cooking with a toothpick and remove from the oven, then let it cool for about twenty minutes . Meanwhile, prepare the glaze: pour the powdered sugar and lemon juice into a small bowl and mix until it reaches a dense and homogeneous consistency .
Turn the loaf upside down on a wire rack with a tray underneath, then pour the glaze over the entire surface , letting it drip down the sides . Let the glaze dry at room temperature and serve your lemon poppy seed cake !
The lemon poppy seed cake can be stored for 2-3 days in a cool place.
For an even better result, you can prepare the base the day before and glaze it later!

