name:
Creamy Pasta with Speck and Zucchini
ingredients:
Mezze Maniche Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Zucchini: 3 ½cups(400 g)
Speck: 7oz(200 g)
Robiola cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Peeled almonds: 1.8oz(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Oregano: 3sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The creamy pasta with speck and zucchini is an easy and quick main course to prepare. A pasta with a delicate yet strong taste that will win over all your guests! After discovering our zucchini and robiola cream, we are sure you will never leave it and use it as a base for many other recipes. Its creaminess and delicate taste are balanced, in this case, by the crispy speck and its unmistakable savoriness! We used mezze maniche as the pasta shape because they hold the sauce really well, but you can choose your favorite shape, dry or fresh! If you enjoyed this pasta , here are other recipes you shouldn’t miss:
To prepare the creamy pasta with speck and zucchini, first start by bringing the water for the pasta to a boil. Meanwhile, remove the rind from the speck and cut it into strips . In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, add the speck , and sauté for a few minutes until crispy .
Transfer it to a small bowl and set it aside. Now wash the zucchini and grate them with a large hole grater . In the pan where you cooked the speck, pour a drizzle of oil and add a clove of garlic in its skin. Let it flavor and add the zucchini .
Salt and pepper and let cook for 3-4 minutes . Now add the pasta to the boiling water .
When the zucchini is wilted , remove the garlic and pour them into a tall, narrow container . Add the almonds .
Also add the oregano leaves , a ladle of cooking water , the grated cheese, and blend with an immersion blender .
Blend until you get a smooth cream . Transfer the obtained cream to the pan, add the robiola , and dilute with a bit of pasta cooking water. Mix to combine the robiola evenly .
Also add the speck and some oregano leaves . Mix well .
Drain the pasta and transfer it directly to the pan with the sauce . Mix well and serve immediately the creamy pasta with speck and zucchini !
You can store the creamy pasta with speck and zucchini in the fridge for 1-2 days at most.
If you prefer, you can also make a zucchini pesto without cooking them. Instead of almonds, you can use pine nuts or walnuts. Instead of robiola, you can use fresh ricotta.

