name:
Fritters with Pumpkin Blossoms (Sciurilli)
ingredients:
Zucchini flowers: 9.5oz(270 g)- (better if pumpkin blossoms, to clean)
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Water: 1.7cups(400 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 2tsp(10 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)- to be grated
Eggs: 1
Fine salt: 1 ½tsp(20 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Among all the beautiful and tasty blooms of the spring garden, there are pumpkin blossoms! One of the most delicious ways to cook them is to make fritters with sciurilli: an ancient and delicious recipe from Campania! Pumpkin blossoms, or sciurilli in Neapolitan dialect, are dipped in this quick leavened batter and then immersed in boiling oil, transforming them into these irresistible fritters. Besides, whether fried or baked , pumpkin blossoms are the stars of various irresistible recipes. But fritters with sciurilli, for those who don't know them, will soon win your hearts. They are also part of the street food recipes of Naples: these little pumpkin blossom fritters are sold in the fryers of the alleys of the historic center in the famous cuoppo, along with rice balls (similar to arancini ), crocchè (the potato croquettes ), scagliuozzi (the fried polenta ), the Neapolitan savory zeppole , and the unmissable fried pizzelle . Lovers or not, curious or experts, you absolutely must try the recipe for fritters with sciurilli and let us know what you think!
And if it's not the season, try our Artichoke Zeppole or the savory zeppoline with salami and cheese !
To prepare fritters with sciurilli, clean the blossoms by detaching the bud from the stem, opening the petals, and removing them from the corolla. Try to keep them intact . Discard the stem with the stalk and then deal with the peduncles, the small tips at the base of the bud . Set aside the cleaned blossoms and prepare the batter: in a pitcher with water, add the yeast .
Dissolve it with the help of a teaspoon . Then, in a bowl, pour the flour, the Parmigiano Reggiano DOP , and the egg .
Start kneading with your hands while pouring in the water . As soon as the dough starts to take shape, add the salt . The consistency of the batter should be quite soft and viscous; while working it, literally "slap" it to incorporate air, with movements from bottom to top. Finally, add the pumpkin blossoms and mix well.
Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rise for at least 2 hours or until the batter has doubled in size . After the rising time, heat the oil to 340°F (measure it with a kitchen thermometer), then drop 4-5 spoonfuls of batter into the boiling oil and let them brown .
It will take about 2 minutes for them to cook evenly, turn them often to brown evenly , then drain on paper towels . Continue cooking the rest: you should get about 40 fritters with these quantities. Your fritters with sciurilli are ready: serve them very hot with a pinch of salt !
It is recommended to consume the fritters with sciurilli immediately after they are ready. If you want, you can prepare the batter a bit in advance: reduce the yeast to 1/5 oz and prepare the dough. Let it mature at room temperature, always covered, for about half an hour before placing it in the refrigerator and leaving it overnight.
The next day, take it out for about ten minutes before proceeding with cooking.
The dough for fritters with sciurilli is very simple, but nothing prevents you from embellishing it with aromatic herbs or spices of your choice. From grated Pecorino cheese, for a stronger flavor, to finely chopped black olives, perhaps accompanied by sun-dried tomatoes in oil.
Finally, try splitting them in half and filling them with a bit of thinly sliced cheese: the heat will melt it, making everything even more delicious!

