name:
Trenette with Pesto, Potatoes, and Green Beans
ingredients:
Trenette pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Potatoes: 4.2oz(120 g)
Green beans: 3.5oz(100 g)
Basil: 1.2oz(35 g)- Genovese PDO
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.4tbsp(35 g)- Ligurian PDO
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.9oz(25 g)- Extra-aged
Sardinian pecorino cheese: 0.5oz(15 g)- "Fiore Sardo"
Pine nuts: 1tbsp(15 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Coarse salt: 1pinch-
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The trenette pasta shape belongs to the Ligurian tradition, and very few pasta makers still produce it. However, you can prepare trenette with pesto, potatoes, and green beans by using linguine (or bavette ) and enjoy bite after bite of this easy and genuine recipe. This is one of the best ways to savor the Genoese pesto , enhanced and simultaneously softened by the sweetness of the green beans, with the starchiness of the potatoes further binding the pasta and pesto together! Few pots are dirtied, it’s quick to prepare, and it’s delicious. Roberto Panizza, from the restaurant Il Genovese, shares all the little secrets of this classic and timeless first course. Discover with us how to make it!
To make trenette with pesto, potatoes, and green beans, first prepare the Genoese pesto: rinse the basil leaves under cold running water, then dry them gently with a cloth by patting and rubbing lightly . Place the garlic with its core removed into a marble mortar and work it with a wooden pestle until you get a cream . Add the pine nuts and proceed in the same way to reduce them into a paste.
At this point, add the basil leaves and the coarse salt and continue pounding, always starting with tapping motions then proceeding with circular motions. When you have obtained a creamy and homogeneous consistency, add the diced Pecorino .
Also add the Parmigiano and pound again to incorporate the cheese into the mixture. Finally, pour the oil and rotate the pestle a few more times . Set aside the pesto and put a pot of salted water on the stove to boil.
Proceed by preparing the rest of the ingredients: peel the potatoes and dice them , then trim the green beans and leave them whole . When the water reaches a boil, add the trenette .
After 2-3 minutes, add the green beans . Then add the potatoes and let them cook for the remaining cooking time of the trenette. In the meantime, pour the pesto into a bowl and dilute it with a little pasta cooking water .
When the pasta is cooked, transfer it to the bowl with the pesto along with the green beans and potatoes . Mix well to combine everything . Garnish with some basil leaves and serve your trenette with pesto, potatoes, and green beans .
It is recommended to consume the trenette with pesto, potatoes, and green beans immediately.
The Genoese pesto can be stored in the refrigerator, in a jar well covered with oil, for 4 days. Alternatively, you can freeze it in small jars.
The recipe does not include adding grated cheese to the finished dish.
The trenette is perfect for holding the pesto, but if you can't find it, you can easily replace it with linguine or bavette.
You can decide whether to break the green beans or leave them whole as we did: in this case, they will be crunchier.
Remember that the pesto should not be heated but at most diluted with a little pasta cooking water to make it creamier and smoother!
Roberto Panizza is the owner of the restaurant "Il Genovese" and the company "Pesto Rossi," which since 1947 has carried on the tradition of DOP Genoese pesto. The use of local raw materials, including obviously basil and Ligurian oil, is the first step to obtaining a pesto of undisputed quality and goodness, with its typical bright green color. The preparation of pesto in a mortar, strictly made of marble, is a special tradition that Roberto Panizza still promotes and continues in his establishments and worldwide, also organizing the World Pesto Championship in Genoa. The Genoese pesto is among the most widespread and used sauces and condiments in the world, a true delicacy boasting one of the most beautiful territories of our Peninsula!

