name:
Pasta with Cherry Tomatoes and Shrimp
ingredients:
Trofie pasta: 1.1lbs(500 g)- fresh
Shrimps: 0.9lb(400 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Parsley: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Tomato paste: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Basil: to taste
Lemon peel: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The shrimp pasta is a first course from the sea that always finds great success, either in its pure form or in tasty versions. Today we present pasta with cherry tomatoes and shrimp, with a Mediterranean aroma and flavor, certainly one that has won us over with its simplicity! A really easy and quick recipe, with a chic touch: lemon zest added before serving, which gives it a unique fragrance! The piccadilly tomatoes, thanks to their sweetness, are perfect, and to make them even juicier we added some tomato paste! Pay attention to the quality of the ingredients, only this way you will get a surprising dish, perfect for a summer dinner. Here are other first courses with shrimp to try:
To prepare pasta with cherry tomatoes and shrimp, first wash the cherry tomatoes well and cut them in half lengthwise . In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, a clove of garlic, and a chili pepper . Let it flavor over medium heat and when the garlic is well browned, add the cherry tomatoes .
Increase the heat and cook the cherry tomatoes for a few minutes until they release some juice. Remove the garlic and chili pepper, then add the basil leaves, tearing them by hand , a pinch of salt, and transfer the tomatoes to a bowl . Set them aside, and in the meantime, bring the water to a boil for cooking the pasta and lightly salt it. Then clean the shrimp by removing the shell and the internal filament.
Cut the shrimp into 1-2 cm (about 1/2-3/4 inch) pieces . In the same pan where you cooked the cherry tomatoes, pour another drizzle of oil and let it heat. Add the shrimp and sauté for a few minutes until they are golden brown .
Now add the cherry tomatoes , toss everything together , and turn off the heat. Keep it warm and cook the trofie in the now boiling water .
Chop the parsley , and when the trofie are cooked, drain them, keeping aside some cooking water. Transfer them to the pan with the cherry tomatoes and shrimp, add a ladle of cooking water , and toss briefly. Add the tomato paste and toss again.
Now, with the heat off, stir with a drizzle of oil ; add a grind of black pepper and some of the chopped parsley .
Add the grated zest of half a lemon and mix again . Plate. Garnish with a little chopped parsley kept aside .
Add another grind of pepper , some more grated lemon zest , and serve your pasta with cherry tomatoes and shrimp !
We recommend consuming the pasta immediately; alternatively, it can be stored in the fridge for up to one day.
If you don't like adding raw tomato paste, you can pour it into the pan along with the cherry tomatoes and add a little water if necessary.

