name:
Mini brioche in air fryer
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 0.6cup(75 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.4cups(175 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.8tsp(3.5 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: ½tsp(3.5 g)
Whole milk: 0.67cup(150 g)- (at room temperature)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Eggs: 1
Whole milk: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 13 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 2h and 30 min. of rising (we used a 6 L air fryer)

instructions:
To prepare the mini brioche in an air fryer, start by melting the butter and letting it cool slightly. Then begin making the dough: in a bowl, combine the two types of flour , sugar , and crumbled fresh yeast .
Add the milk and mix the ingredients with a dough scraper , then knead with your hands .
When the ingredients are well combined, add the butter at room temperature and continue kneading in the bowl until absorbed. Finally, add the salt and knead again. Transfer the dough to a work surface and knead it for about 10 minutes until smooth.
Shape the dough into a ball by rolling it, then place it in a bowl . Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for 2 hours in the oven with only the light on, until it has doubled in size .
Once risen, transfer the dough to a work surface and flatten it with your hands . Roll it out with a rolling pin to form a rectangle and trim the edges if uneven .
The final rectangle should be approximately 16.5x11 inches . Make marks on both long sides of the rectangle every 2.75 inches , then use a pastry cutter to cut 12 triangles with a base of 2.75 inches .
Starting from the wider side, begin rolling the brioche, gently pulling the tip to lengthen it . Continue rolling gently , ensuring the seal is on the bottom. Transfer each brioche onto squares of parchment paper and place them on a baking sheet or tray . Let the brioche rise in the oven with only the light on, for about 30 minutes.
Once the brioche have risen , beat the egg together with the milk and use it to brush the first 4 brioche .
Then place them inside the basket of the air fryer (we used an air fryer with a 6-liter capacity) and store the others in the fridge. Cook the brioche in the air fryer at 302°F for 13 minutes. Then remove them and continue cooking the others, brushing them one at a time, and then serve .
Store the brioche at room temperature for up to two days in an airtight container. We recommend warming them before serving.
Alternatively, you can freeze them before the final rise or after baking.
The dough should be soft and elastic but not sticky. About 10 minutes of kneading should suffice; in any case, we recommend not kneading for more than 15 minutes, as the dough could become stressed.
If you prefer, you can also prepare the brioche the night before. Once they have risen, you should store them in the fridge.

