name:
No-Knead Pizza
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Manitoba flour: 2.1cups(250 g)
Water: 1.7cups(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: ¾tsp(10 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.3oz(8 g)
Tomato purée: 1.3cups(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cherry tomatoes: 5.3oz(150 g)
Capers in oil: to taste
Taggiasca olives: 2tbsp(30 g)- pitted
Provola cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note plus 3.5 hours of rising

instructions:
This no-knead pizza will surprise you, the easiest pizza to prepare. Many of you have asked us for a simple way to prepare the dough and finally we have managed to meet your requests. With the no-knead pizza recipe, even those who are very new to cooking can achieve a fantastic result! No folds and a relatively short rising time will allow you to prepare this homemade pizza in no time. We chose to use not only the classic all-purpose flour but also bread flour, to have a stronger gluten network. By following our recipe you will get a crispy and soft sheet pan pizza at the same time! To top it, we used cherry tomatoes, capers, and Taggiasca olives, but of course, you can opt for a classic Margherita or get creative based on your taste and the ingredients you love!
Here are other recipes not to be missed:
To prepare the no-knead pizza, pour the flours into a large bowl . Add the water and the crumbled active dry yeast .
Mix well with a wooden spoon until you get a homogeneous and soft dough . Let it rest for 10 minutes, then add the oil .
Also add the salt and mix again with the wooden spoon until you get a smooth and homogeneous mixture . Cover the dough with plastic wrap and let it rise at room temperature for 3 hours. The most suitable temperature would be around 77-81°F.
After the resting time, the dough will have doubled . Grease a 16x12 inch baking pan and transfer the dough inside . Gently press the dough and stretch it by hand . Do not worry if you cannot cover the entire pan.
Let the dough rest in the pan for 10 minutes, then stretch it further with your fingertips until it covers the entire surface of the pan . Season the tomato sauce with salt and oil . Pour it over the pizza base, leaving a couple of centimeters (about an inch) free from the edge . Let it rest again for 30 minutes away from drafts.
After the resting time, place the previously washed and halved cherry tomatoes on the surface of the pizza, pressing them lightly . Also add some capers and a drizzle of oil .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 430°F for 25 minutes . Then take it out of the oven and sprinkle the pizza with the grated provola cheese . Bake for another 5 minutes until the cheese has melted. Remove from the oven and decorate with Taggiasca olives and basil. The no-knead pizza is ready; enjoy it hot!
The pizza can be stored in the refrigerator for one day. Once baked, it can also be frozen.
Choose the topping you prefer. You can add cold cuts or other vegetables, depending on the season.

