name:
Carrettiera Eggs
ingredients:
Eggs: 4
Breadcrumbs: 1tbsp(15 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 0.5oz(15 g)
Garlic: 1clove- small
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
Inspired by the famous pasta alla carrettiera , a very popular first course in Southern Italy, carrettiera eggs encapsulate the same flavor and are an excellent alternative for How to cook eggs . The recipes with eggs that we have proposed are numerous, but if you want to prepare some special Fried eggs ready in just a few minutes, this is the recipe for you! The difference lies in the added breading during cooking, made with breadcrumbs, garlic, Pecorino cheese, and parsley, toasted in the pan to release all the flavors! This recipe is perfect to serve as a second course... we are sure it will become your go-to dinner saver; and don't forget to serve them with bread, fresh or toasted, ideal for savoring their creamy yolk! Here are other delicious egg recipes to try:
To prepare carrettiera eggs, first finely chop the garlic and add it to the breadcrumbs in a bowl. Add salt .
Also add pepper and mix . Take the parsley, chop the leaves, and let the stems flavor a pan with a drizzle of oil . Then remove the parsley stems after 1-2 minutes .
Add the breadcrumbs and stir with a wooden spoon . Cook for a few minutes until it is well toasted and slightly charred. Then transfer it to a bowl .
Then add the Pecorino cheese , chopped parsley , mix and set aside your breading.
In a pan, heat some oil and then break the eggs into a bowl before pouring them into the pan . Immediately add the breading, distributing it evenly over the eggs and cook for 2-3 minutes over medium heat . Serve with bread as desired.
We recommend serving the carrettiera eggs immediately.
If you prefer, you can use only half a clove of garlic or omit it for a milder flavor.
Break the eggs into a bowl before pouring them into the pan so that all 4 cook simultaneously, and you won't risk breaking the yolks.
You can use Parmigiano Reggiano instead of Pecorino and use the herbs of your choice.

