name:
Chocolate Filled Buns
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1.3cups(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.25oz(7 g)
Whole milk: 1 ⅓cup(300 g)- at room temperature
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- melted, at room temperature
Sugar: ⅓cup(60 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Dark chocolate: 10.6oz(300 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 1tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + rising times (about 3 hours)

instructions:
Think that the chocolate chip buns are not delicious enough? Today we present you with a recipe that no one will be able to resist. Our soft buns filled with chocolate will truly conquer everyone...a genuine and nutritious snack, perfect to enjoy at home, school, or the office. The dough is similar to milk buns , soft like a cloud and not too sweet, perfect to hold abundant chocolate, which will make both adults and children happy. Our advice? Enjoy them warm for breakfast to savor the meltiness of the chocolate... Here are other recipes similar to this one:
To prepare the chocolate filled buns, first melt the butter and let it cool slightly. Now move on to the dough: in a bowl, pour the two flours , the sugar , and crumble in the fresh yeast .
Pour the milk at room temperature and start kneading with your hands . When you have obtained a rather homogeneous mixture, pour in part of the melted, now lukewarm butter .
Knead again until it is completely absorbed and add a bit more butter. Continue this way until all the butter is used up, letting it absorb slowly. Then transfer the dough to a work surface and add the salt .
Knead for a few more minutes , then cover with a bowl and let the dough rest for about ten minutes. Knead it again and round it. The dough should be smooth and elastic.
Transfer it to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it rise for about 2 hours at a temperature of about 75-78°F. Once the indicated time has passed, your dough will have grown in volume . Transfer it to the work surface and handle it briefly to form a loaf .
Cut it with a dough scraper into pieces of about 3.2 oz each . You will get 10 pieces . Shape each piece into a ball .
Continue with the others, covering them with a damp cloth to prevent the dough from drying out, and let them rest for 10 minutes . Take the chocolate bars and cut them into pieces . Now take one of the balls and flatten it with your hands until you get a 4-inch disk.
Place the chocolate in the center, about 1 oz for each . Cover with a piece of dough and roll it up .
Pinch the edges to seal the buns and prevent the chocolate from leaking during baking . Arrange them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper, spacing them apart, and place the seam side down . Cover with plastic wrap .
Let them rise for 1 hour, or until they have doubled in volume . The recommended temperature is 75-78°F. Brush the buns with egg yolk and cream beaten together , then make diagonal cuts, 3 or 4 for each bun.
Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 25 minutes, until they are golden brown. Take them out of the oven and let them cool on a wire rack before serving .
Store the chocolate filled buns at room temperature, closed in a plastic bag, for a maximum of 1-2 days. The buns can be frozen once baked and completely cooled at room temperature. Before reheating them in the oven, we recommend thawing them in the fridge.
The dough of these buns should be very soft and elastic, but not sticky: it all depends on the flour you use for the preparation, which could absorb more or fewer liquids.
So evaluate the consistency of the dough while working it on the surface, if it's too hard add a bit of milk, otherwise, a bit of flour if it's sticky.

