name:
Whole Wheat Bread
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: ½tsp(2 g)
Whole grain flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Type 2 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Water: 1.1cups(260 g)
Malt: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note plus rising time (33 hours)

instructions:
Whole wheat bread is a rustic, rich, and hearty bread. Its preparation is simple, but only by respecting the resting and maturation times will you get a fragrant bread, with a well-developed crumb and a crunchy crust. A leavened product perfect for enriching the bread basket, perhaps together with a tasty Spelt focaccia , and for making a delicious scarpetta during meals... but if slightly toasted and sprinkled with jam, it will transform into a magnificent breakfast! Whole wheat bread, made with bran-rich flour, is an excellent substitute for white bread as it is very rich in fiber, vitamins, and minerals. Preparing a fragrant loaf of whole wheat bread at home is really a piece of cake, discover with us how to do it and also dedicate yourself to other preparations for always different bread !
To prepare the whole wheat bread, start with the biga. Pour the water and yeast into a container . Stir until dissolved. Now pour the flour into a bowl and add the dissolved yeast in the water . Knead quickly until the flour has absorbed the water .
You should not get a homogeneous mixture but coarse crumbs. Cover with plastic wrap and let it mature for 10 hours at room temperature . At this point, take care of the dough. In a bowl, pour half of the water and the malt .
Add the crumbled biga and start kneading to dissolve it. Then add the two flours: whole wheat and type 2 .
Add the salt and start kneading . As soon as the ingredients are combined, add the water little by little .
When it begins to be homogeneous, continue kneading in this way: lift a flap of dough, bring it towards the center and continue this way, rotating the bowl at each fold. Once you have a smooth dough, transfer it to the surface and give some reinforcement folds, using a dough scraper. If it is too sticky, let the dough rest for 5 minutes before working it again. Shape it into a ball and transfer it back to the bowl , cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for an hour at room temperature. Then put it in the fridge for 16 hours.
Take the dough out of the fridge and in the meantime, line a bread basket with a cloth and sprinkle it with plenty of flour . Take the dough out of the bowl using a dough scraper and transfer it to a lightly floured surface.
Spread out the dough , make some folds again, bringing the flaps to the center and then turn it over so the seam is in contact with the work surface, then shape it into a loaf . Put it in the basket, flipping the dough, so the seam is up and sprinkle with more flour .
Close the cloth to cover it and let it rise for another 3 hours at room temperature until the dough reaches the edge of the bowl . Turn the loaf onto a sheet of parchment paper and sprinkle again with a little flour .
Score the loaf with a sharp blade and transfer it to a 9-inch pot previously heated in the oven for 30 minutes. Cover with a lid and bake at 480°F for 55 minutes, removing the lid after the first 30 minutes. Take the bread out of the oven and let it cool completely before serving.
Whole wheat bread can be stored in a paper bag for 2 days. Once baked, you can also freeze it in slices.
If you have a banneton or a proofing basket, you can use it instead of the bowl.
If you don't have a glass pot like ours, you can easily use a pot suitable for oven baking.

