name:
Eggplant and Ricotta Paccheri
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Eggplant: 0.6lb(250 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Tomato purée: 0.8cup(200 g)
Onions: ½
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Paccheri are one of the most delicious types of pasta , ideal for stuffing or accompanying tasty sauces like this one! Eggplant and ricotta paccheri is a first course that is impossible to resist: a mix of Mediterranean flavors inspired by traditional Pasta alla Norma but with a variant that will make this first course equally delicious: instead of salted ricotta, we have flavored the sauce with fresh ricotta, which will give a velvety and enveloping touch!
Discover other delicious eggplant-based recipes:
To prepare eggplant and ricotta paccheri, start by boiling the water for the pasta, salting it once it boils. Clean and chop the onion , then add the oil to a large pan and heat it up . Add the onion and sauté it, stirring occasionally to soften and golden it gently.
Add the tomato sauce , a ladle of hot water , and season with salt .
Flavor with pepper to taste and cook for 30 minutes with a lid on . Meanwhile, wash, clean, and cut the eggplants into cubes of about 1/5-inch .
Heat a swirl of oil in a pan, add the eggplants , and sauté them until golden . Put a pot of salted water on the stove and cook the paccheri , leaving them two minutes short of the indicated cooking time.
Drain the paccheri directly into the tomato sauce , add the eggplants , stir and finish cooking, adding pasta cooking water a little at a time if necessary.
When the paccheri are cooked, turn off the heat and add the ricotta , stir to combine , and flavor with basil leaves. The eggplant and ricotta paccheri are ready to be served .
The eggplant and ricotta paccheri can be kept in the fridge for one day. We do not recommend freezing.
You can use sheep's ricotta if you prefer a stronger flavor. If the ricotta has any whey, we recommend draining it well before use.

