name:
Eggplants in oil
ingredients:
Eggplant: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
White wine vinegar: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Water: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: 2
Rosemary: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + resting time and jar sanitization time

instructions:
Eggplants in oil are a way to enjoy eggplants all year round! Among the many eggplant recipes , such as stuffed eggplants or gratinated eggplants , those in oil have a special place in our list of favorite dishes! A preserve that can be prepared in different ways depending on the locality and family traditions. Excellent to serve as an appetizer , to accompany with toasted bread crostini and a board of tasty cold cuts and cheeses, perfect also to enrich the flavor of a summer first course like pasta with arugula pesto, eggplants in oil and stracciatella . We show you the steps to make eggplants in oil, in our way, but always respecting the guidelines for proper preparation and storage. Discover also other recipes in oil:
To prepare eggplants in oil, make sure to sanitize the jars as indicated at the end of the recipe and use new lids (follow the instructions by the Ministry of health on preparing home made preserves) . Wash the eggplants well under running water, dry them, trim them , peel them to remove the skin , and cut into 1/2-inch sticks .
Place the eggplants in a colander and sprinkle with a little salt , mix them with your hands. Let the eggplants rest with the salt for about 15 minutes. In a pot, pour the water and the vinegar , and bring to a boil.
Squeeze the eggplants well, using a dish towel if necessary. Then pour them into the water and vinegar , blanch for about 30 seconds, then add the chili pepper , garlic, and rosemary .
Cook everything for another 30 seconds . Drain the eggplants on a clean dish towel .
Let cool slightly . Transfer the now-lukewarm eggplants into 2 perfectly clean and dry 17 fl oz glass jars . Completely cover the eggplants with extra virgin olive oil, making sure to leave a one-finger space from the edge .
Close with the lid, tightening well. We recommend using new lids with intact seals . Transfer the jars with the eggplants into a pot with cold water (they must be covered up to the lid) and bring to a boil. Let the jars with the eggplants boil for about 20 minutes. Let cool in water at room temperature or directly in water. Check the vacuum seal of the jars . Verify the formation of the vacuum: the lid should not click, and in the case of seals, pulling them should remain firmly in place. Store the eggplants in oil in a cool and dry place, away from direct light sources. Once ready, monitor the jar for half a day to check if the oil level drops (it might be partially absorbed by the eggplants): in this case, it is necessary to add more oil and proceed again with boiling the jar.
If done correctly, preserves can last from 6 months to 1 year.
To enjoy them at their best, we suggest consuming them 2 months after preparation. Once opened, they keep in the fridge for no more than 7 days.
Cooking in water and vinegar is important for preserving vegetables and aromas, but do not prolong cooking too long to avoid losing the right consistency of the eggplants.

