name:
Braid with Pesto and Cherry Tomatoes
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 3 ⅓cups(400 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 0.67cup(100 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 2tsp(7 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Genoese pesto (Basil sauce): (150 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 4.25oz(120 g)
Salt: to taste
Oregano: to taste- fresh

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note plus the rising times (3 and a half hours)

instructions:
To prepare the braid with pesto and cherry tomatoes, start with the dough. In a bowl, pour the flour , the semolina , and the crumbled fresh yeast .
Add part of the water and start mixing with a spoon . Then add more water and mix.
Finally, add the salt and the remaining water . Knead with your hands in the bowl .
Then transfer to a work surface and continue kneading until you get a smooth and homogeneous mixture . Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for about 2 and a half hours, until the dough has doubled in volume. A few minutes before, cut the scamorza cheese into cubes .
Also cut the well-drained cherry tomatoes into pieces . As soon as the dough is well risen , transfer it to a lightly floured work surface .
Lightly flour the dough and roll it out to obtain a rectangle 0.4 inches (1 cm) thick . Pour the pesto onto the dough and spread it to cover almost the entire surface .
Place the sun-dried tomatoes and the scamorza cheese on the pesto. Roll up from the long side .
Then seal the ends well to obtain a sausage shape . Cut it in half, slicing along the entire length .
Overlap the two parts and twist them to form a braid . Transfer it to a 10x5-inch loaf pan lined with parchment paper .
Let it rise for another hour, then sprinkle with salt flakes and oregano leaves . Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F (180°C) until golden brown. Then remove the braid from the oven , wait a few minutes, and transfer it to a cooling rack . Let it cool and serve .
You can store the pesto braid for 1 day under a glass dome.
If you prefer, once it has cooled, it can be frozen.
You can use provolone instead of scamorza. You can also enrich the braid by adding coarsely chopped walnuts.

