name:
Sautéed Eggplant
ingredients:
Eggplant: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Dried chili pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
Just one ingredient for a delicious side dish: sautéed eggplant is quick and easy. Add oil, garlic, chili and parsley for a tasty and flavorful dish, ready in less than 30 minutes. Eggplants are a summer ingredient, perfect for accompanying many main courses of meat and fish, or to enrich your first courses, such as pasta and couscous. A vegetable that lends itself to many delicious preparations in the kitchen, like baked eggplants or eggplants with tomato and basil ! But let's focus on this side dish: by cutting the eggplants into rather large cubes, you can fully enjoy their firm and meaty texture!
Here are other sautéed recipes not to be missed:
To prepare the sautéed eggplant, first wash the eggplants well and trim them . Then cut them in half lengthwise and divide each half again .
Now cut them into rather large cubes, about 3/4 inch . In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil and a garlic clove . Heat and then add the eggplants .
Salt and cook over medium-high heat for a few minutes. Using tongs, turn the eggplant cubes ; you'll notice that the oil has been completely absorbed by the eggplants, so add a bit more . At this point, the eggplants will be softer and you can toss them or turn them without using tongs.
After about 15 minutes, the eggplants will be cooked, soft and well browned. Remove the garlic clove , season with chopped parsley and dried chili pepper .
Toss the eggplants , transfer them to a serving dish and serve .
You can store the eggplants in the refrigerator for a couple of days. Alternatively, you can freeze them, keeping in mind that once thawed, they will be less firm.
Adding the second batch of oil is not essential but recommended. However, adjust with the initial oil if you want to avoid the total amount being excessive. The eggplants during cooking should not overlap; if you increase the quantity, make sure you have a very large pan.
An idea for a main dish to pair with the eggplants in the pan? Try pan-seared prawns , easy and quick to cook!

