name:
Pesto and Zucchini Lasagna
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 12- sheets
Zucchini: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Basil: 1.2oz(35 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.9oz(25 g)- to grate
Pecorino cheese: 0.4oz(10 g)- to grate
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Pine nuts: 1tbsp(15 g)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Butter: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅓cup(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The pesto lasagna and zucchini lasagna are excellent vegetarian variations of the classic Bolognese lasagna ... we have combined them into a single recipe for an even more delicious first course: pesto and zucchini lasagna! A summery version of baked pasta made with layers of thinly sliced vegetables flavored with a fragrant basil pesto , alternating with a soft béchamel sauce . Easy to prepare and suitable for all occasions, lasagna with pesto and zucchini has a rich and genuine flavor that will win everyone over!
Discover more delicious Lasagna recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the pesto and zucchini lasagna, first trim the zucchini and slice them with a mandolin to obtain very thin slices . Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan and add the zucchini .
Cook over high heat for about 5 minutes . Once golden, season with salt and pepper, then set aside. Move on to preparing the béchamel sauce: heat the milk in a pot .
In another pot, melt the butter over low heat , then add the flour all at once and stir until you get a roux .
At this point, pour the hot milk in 2 or 3 additions and continue stirring over medium heat with a whisk . When it has thickened, remove the béchamel sauce from the heat , cover with plastic wrap in contact with the surface, and let it cool to room temperature.
Now focus on the pesto: put the basil leaves, washed and dried, in a mixer along with the oil and blend for a few seconds , then add the clove of garlic, grated Parmigiano Reggiano PDO and grated Pecorino .
Add the pine nuts and blend again until you get a smooth consistency . You are ready to assemble the lasagna: spread a spoonful of béchamel sauce on the bottom of a baking dish .
Lay 3 sheets of pasta slightly overlapping , then cover with a bit more béchamel sauce and add some zucchini .
Distribute a few dollops of pesto and sprinkle with a tablespoon of grated Parmigiano Reggiano PDO , then cover with another 3 sheets of pasta . Repeat the sequence of ingredients to create a total of 4 layers of pasta.
Cover with béchamel sauce, zucchini, pesto, and plenty of grated Parmigiano Reggiano PDO . Bake in a preheated static oven at 400°F for 35 minutes, then turn on the grill and continue baking for another 5 minutes . Remove the pesto and zucchini lasagna from the oven and let it cool slightly before serving !
The pesto and zucchini lasagna can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
You can freeze them after cooking.
You can further enhance the flavor of the pesto and zucchini lasagna by adding some roughly chopped sun-dried tomatoes in oil or some dollops of ricotta.
Also, try the recipe for Lasagna with pesto cream, ricotta, and spinach , a delicious variation!

