name:
Pistachio Lasagna
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Pork: 1.1lbs(500 g)- ground
Caciocavallo cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Thyme: 1sprig
White wine: 2tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)
Unsalted pistachios: ⅓cup(50 g)- shelled
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Unsalted pistachios: ⅓cup(50 g)- already shelled
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
The symbol of Sunday lunch: lasagna ! Your favorite is pesto lasagna ? Then you must try pistachio lasagna, with pistachio pesto! Layers of egg pasta alternate with classic and voluptuous béchamel , made even more special! The indispensable savory note of pan-fried minced pork and delicious caciocavallo cheese... but especially the main star of the recipe: pistachio pesto ! You'll taste that unique mix of flavors, for a rich and hearty first course perfect for Sunday lunch. And then, we all know... reheated lasagna the next day is even better: maybe a portion will be saved for the lunchbox to bring to the office!
Discover more delicious Lasagna recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare pistachio lasagna, first pour the pistachios into the blender with 20 grams (1.4 tbsp) of oil . Blend for about 1 minute until you get a coarse mixture . Prepare the béchamel by pouring the milk into a large saucepan. Heat until it reaches a slight boil.
In another pot, add the butter and melt it over low heat. When the butter is completely melted, add the flour and mix well to obtain a very thick roux. Gradually add the hot milk , whisking until all the milk is incorporated. Cook over low heat to thicken the sauce, which should be quite smooth.
Turn off the heat and add the chopped pistachios from the blender . Mix well , cover with plastic wrap, and set aside at room temperature. In a pan, sauté the garlic clove with a drizzle of oil . Add the chopped rosemary and thyme. Let it all sauté for about 1 minute.
Add the minced pork . Mix and cook for about 5 minutes over medium heat. At this point, deglaze with the white wine and let the alcohol completely evaporate. Cook for another 5 minutes. Turn off the heat and remove the garlic .
Season with salt and pepper. Sauté the peeled pistachios in a pan with a drizzle of oil , a pinch of salt , and set aside.
Assemble the lasagna by lightly buttering the baking dish and creating a thin layer of pistachio béchamel . Place 3 sheets of pasta on the béchamel layer and create another layer of béchamel .
Continue assembling by adding a generous spoonful of browned meat , coarsely grated caciocavallo cheese, and some sautéed pistachios . Continue creating 5 layers of pasta following the previous pattern.
Finish with a layer of béchamel, browned meat, caciocavallo cheese, Parmigiano Reggiano , sautéed pistachios, and plenty of pepper . Bake in a preheated conventional oven at 375°F (190°C) for 30 minutes. Remove from the oven and let it cool slightly before serving.
You can store your pistachio lasagna for a couple of days in the refrigerator. If you want to freeze it, you can do so while it's raw, and already assembled, allowing it to thaw for 2-3 hours before baking. Alternatively, you can freeze it after cooking.
The meat can be replaced with slices of cooked ham! You can also make a vegetarian pistachio lasagna by adding grilled zucchini or just sweet provolone cheese!
You can use fresh pasta sheets instead of dry ones; in this case, we recommend blanching them before assembling the lasagna and reducing the cooking time.


