name:
Niçoise Salad
ingredients:
Eggs: 4
Lettuce: 10.6oz(300 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 9oz(250 g)
Tuna in oil: 5oz(140 g)- (drained weight)
Black olives: 3.5oz(100 g)- pitted
Fresh scallion: 1.4oz(40 g)
Anchovies in oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 7 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Fresh and nutritious, large salads are ideal for a summer lunch: whether it's a tuna salad , a rice salad , a flavorful chicken salad , or based on raw vegetables like the Niçoise salad (or salade niçoise ), typical of the French Riviera! A rich and colorful dish characterized by the presence of hard-boiled eggs , tomatoes, anchovies, tuna, and olives. Originating from Nice, as the name suggests, the Niçoise salad is popular throughout the Mediterranean region, although with many variations. The most well-known version in Italy, for example, is the Ligurian one which includes the addition of green beans and potatoes and is called condiglione . We propose the ingredients of the basic recipe that you can enrich or modify as you like, strictly using seasonal vegetables. So we just have to wish you bon appétit with the Niçoise salad... more than a side dish, a delicious main course!
To make the Niçoise salad, first prepare the hard-boiled eggs: place the eggs in a saucepan, cover with cold water, and bring to a boil over moderate heat. After 7 minutes from the start of boiling, drain and let cool . Meanwhile, prepare the other ingredients: remove the green part of the scallion and the lower part, then cut it into thin rounds .
Wash and cut the cherry tomatoes into quarters . Drain the anchovy fillets and cut them into pieces . By this time, the hard-boiled eggs will have cooled, so peel them and cut them into 4 parts .
Wash the lettuce and tear it by hand into a large bowl , then add the pitted olives and the cherry tomatoes .
Also add the scallion, the drained tuna , and the anchovies. Finally, season with oil , salt, and pepper .
Mix everything well , then complete the dish with the wedges of hard-boiled egg . Your Niçoise salad is ready to be served !
Unseasoned Niçoise salad can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
If you want to further enrich the Niçoise salad or substitute some ingredients, you can use raw green and yellow peppers, fava beans, radishes, or cucumbers! Try taking inspiration from our spring salad recipe!

