name:
Barley Salad with Cherry Tomatoes, Corn, and Olives
ingredients:
Pearl barley: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Taggiasca olives: 5.6oz(160 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 14.1oz(400 g)
Precooked chickpeas: 1cup(200 g)
Corn: ½cup(100 g)
Parsley: 2tbsp(10 g)
Arugula: ½cup(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus resting time (2 hours)

instructions:
If you are looking for a tasty and cold main course to serve for a summer lunch, you are in the right place! Let's prepare a delicious barley salad together with cherry tomatoes, corn, and olives. This cold salad is an alternative version to the classic cold pasta or the typical rice salad , and it is really simple to make. A light dish but at the same time really tasty, thanks to the addition of chickpeas, arugula, and fresh basil that will give it a unique aroma. Barley salad is a recipe that can be prepared in advance, you can bring it to the office for a quick break, or enjoy it by the sea! Use it to enrich a savory buffet or serve it for a family dinner. In short, there are many occasions, you just have to start preparing it and personalize it according to your taste.
Here are some other cold main courses you shouldn't miss:
To prepare the barley salad with cherry tomatoes, corn, and olives, first place a pot full of salted water on the stove and bring it to a boil. As soon as it starts boiling, pour in the barley and cook it for 40 minutes. Meanwhile, coarsely chop the pitted taggiasca olives and cut the cherry tomatoes into quarters , well washed.
In a large bowl, pour the olives and cherry tomatoes , add the pre-cooked chickpeas and the corn .
As soon as the barley is cooked, drain it and cool it under running water. Add it to the bowl with the other ingredients. Then coarsely chop the arugula and the basil .
Add these as well . Season with extra virgin olive oil and plenty of black pepper .
Mix well . At this point , store the barley salad in the fridge for at least two hours before serving it .
The barley salad can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
Enrich the barley salad with fresh feta, mozzarella balls, or salted ricotta shavings!

