name:
No Churn Berry Ice Cream
ingredients:
Raspberries: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Blueberries: ½cup(100 g)
Strawberries: 2 ½cups(350 g)
Whole milk: 1.7cups(400 g)
Sugar: (150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.1cups(250 g)
Egg whites: 2- (of medium eggs)
Lemon juice: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + resting in the freezer, repeated multiple times

instructions:
Loved in all seasons, appreciated in many variations as a snack or dessert: it's ice cream ! Making it at home is a true satisfaction because in a short time you can create many different flavors with simple and fresh ingredients. But not everyone has an ice cream maker, the machine that allows you to mix, cool, and compact the ice cream. With the recipe for ice cream without an ice cream maker with berries, you can achieve an equally creamy consistency by following a few small tips. We chose the berry flavor, but you can create your ice cream without an ice cream maker with the flavors you prefer to make rich bowls or cones to enjoy with friends!
Among homemade ice creams, don't miss these flavors.
To prepare no churn berry ice cream, start by placing the well-washed berries in a mixer: the blueberries, raspberries, and strawberries after removing the green leaves . Blend everything and pass the obtained puree through a sieve .
Squeeze the juice of 1 lemon and filter it, then add it to the berry puree : stir and set aside. In a saucepan, pour the milk and egg whites
and the sugar . Cook over low heat, stirring with a whisk to dissolve the egg whites and sugar: the mixture should reach but not exceed 180°F; you can check with a food thermometer . Once it reaches the temperature, transfer the mixture to a bowl and place it in a larger bowl filled with ice for rapid cooling (the mixture should not solidify). Then pour in the berry puree and mix with a spatula to combine the ingredients.
In a well-chilled bowl, whip the cream with an electric mixer, and when the berry mixture is cold, add the cream , stirring from top to bottom with a spatula. Then transfer everything to a wide, shallow dish, cover with cling film, and place in the freezer . After an hour, take out the ice cream and mix it with a fork, then place it back in the freezer for another hour. Repeat the operation at least three times until the ice cream reaches the ideal consistency, then serve it in bowls with some fresh berries !
Store the no churn berry ice cream in the freezer in an airtight container for about 1 week.
Use fresh egg whites; you can also use pasteurized egg whites if you prefer. The important thing is not to overcook the mixture with the egg whites.

