name:
Crispy Vegetable Fritters
ingredients:
Zucchini: 1cup(200 g)
Carrots: 0.44lb(200 g)
Potatoes: 7.1oz(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Baking soda: ¼tsp(1 g)
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp
Thyme: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
How delicious are fritters ? Today we are making a quick and easy savory alternative: crispy vegetable fritters! They are very easy to make and require very few ingredients! By grating the vegetables, you can use them raw, and using only flour as a binder, you will get fritters that are soft inside and really crispy outside. We chose to use zucchini, carrots, and potatoes, which everyone always has at home, but you can customize the fritters with the vegetables you love most, according to the season! This time we chose not to deep-fry in plenty of oil but to use only a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil for a unique flavor. Thanks to the baking soda, the fritters won't darken and will be crispy! Prepare crispy vegetable fritters as an appetizer or main course and serve them hot! And if you are fritter lovers, here are other sweet and savory recipes not to be missed:
To prepare the crispy vegetable fritters, first wash the zucchini and carrot well. Remove the ends from the zucchini and grate it with a coarse grater . Do the same with the carrot, first trimming it .
Then grate it . Peel the potato and grate it .
Put the zucchini , carrots, and potatoes in a bowl. Mix everything well .
Add the paprika , baking soda , and all-purpose flour . Mix with your hands or a wooden spoon.
Salt, pepper , and add thyme leaves . Knead with your hands to get a compact mixture .
Form balls with the mixture and slightly flatten them with your hands , you will get 12 in total. Pour the oil into a non-stick pan and when it's hot, place the fritters inside . If the pan isn't large enough, do not overcrowd it and cook them in batches.
Cook the fritters for 5 minutes, turning them occasionally. When they are golden brown, drain them and transfer them to a tray with paper towels to remove excess oil . Salt and serve your crispy fritters .
It is advisable to prepare the mixture and fry immediately: if left aside for too long, it will release too much water.
We recommend consuming the crispy fritters as soon as they are ready. Alternatively, you can store them in the fridge for a day and reheat them before serving.
Instead of paprika, you can add other flavors: a pinch of nutmeg, oregano, turmeric, or even curry or cumin for spiced fritters!

