name:
Mini Skillet Focaccias
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2.8cups(350 g)
Water: 0.9cup(205 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 1tsp(5 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1.8tsp(10 g)
Provolone cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)- mild
Prosciutto cotto: 7.1oz(200 g)- (thinly sliced)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Craving for some focaccias unexpectedly? Here are our mini skillet focaccias, without rising and ready in just a few minutes! A really simple recipe that even beginners in the kitchen can handle. The dough, with low hydration, is very easy to work with, not sticky, and you won't need to add more flour, risking to make the flatbreads too dry! But the real secret of this recipe lies in the filling; we chose a classic combination that always pleases everyone, but you can vary it according to your tastes and creativity! Thanks to the skillet cooking, you will get a pleasant crust on the outside, while the inside of the flatbreads will remain soft with a melting and appetizing filling. What are you waiting for? Thanks to the instant yeast, you can satisfy your cravings in no time! Here are some other really tasty recipes not to be missed:
To prepare the mini skillet focaccias, first pour the flour into a bowl. Add the salt and instant yeast . Also add the water .
Start mixing with a wooden spoon and when you have a uniform mixture, add the oil . Mix again, then start kneading with your hands .
Transfer to a work surface and knead until you get a uniform dough . Now form a loaf and from this, cut out 10 pieces weighing 2-2.1 oz .
From each portion, form a ball by lifting the edges of the dough and bringing them towards the center . Flip onto the work surface (because the seam should be at the base) and rotate each ball between your hands to give it a perfect spherical shape. Do the same for all the others . Cover with a towel and let rest.
Meanwhile, cut the cheese into small cubes . Take one of the balls and roll it out with a rolling pin on a floured surface , you should get a thin disk .
Place the cheese cubes in the center , place a slice of ham on top , and add more cheese .
Now close the flatbreads by lifting the edges of the dough and pinching them together at the center . Do the same for all sides, forming a well-sealed bundle . Flip it onto the work surface and rotate it gently .
Place the flatbreads in a hot skillet . Wait a few seconds, then press them gently . Cover with a lid and continue cooking for 5-6 minutes .
Remove the lid, flip the flatbreads , and press them gently again continue cooking for another 5-6 minutes. This way, the heat will penetrate inside, and the cheese will be well melted. Transfer to a cutting board and serve your skillet flatbreads .
We recommend consuming the stuffed flatbreads immediately. Alternatively, they can be stored in the refrigerator for one day and reheated before serving.
Instead of ham, you can use another cured meat, such as speck, coppa, or salami.
Instead of provolone, you can use another cheese, such as smoked scamorza or spicy Gorgonzola. It is important not to use mozzarella, as it may release too much liquid during cooking.

