name:
Mediterranean-style Salmon Fillets
ingredients:
Salmon: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Yellow cherry tomatoes: 1cup(150 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1cup(150 g)
Taggiasca olives: 1.8oz(50 g)
Salted capers: 2tsp(10 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Oregano: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
The Mediterranean-style salmon fillets are an excellent summer main course, encapsulating all the flavors of our cuisine and releasing its typical aromas. Juicy, colorful cherry tomatoes, enriched with aromatic herbs, serve as a side to the salmon , while Taggiasca olives and capers give the dish a bold note. A really easy recipe to make, few and simple ingredients come together to be baked... the result will be a succulent and complete dish, a perfect ace up your sleeve for an unexpected dinner! After tasting the Mediterranean-style salmon fillets, also try:
To prepare Mediterranean-style salmon fillets, cut the cherry tomatoes in half and season them with 2 garlic cloves , salt, pepper, oil, and oregano . Mix well and set aside.
Remove any bones from the fillets with the appropriate tweezers . Place them in a baking dish lined with parchment paper. Pour in the cherry tomatoes , olives, and desalted capers .
Season the salmon with oil, salt, and pepper , then add sprigs of dried oregano and fresh thyme all over the dish . Bake in a preheated static oven at 450°F for about 20 minutes. The Mediterranean-style salmon fillets are ready .
The Mediterranean-style salmon fillets can be stored in the fridge for 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can use only one type of cherry tomatoes and enrich with other aromatic herbs such as marjoram, basil, or fennel, even fresh oregano instead of dried if you prefer. To ensure there are no bones in the fillet, run your palm over it; you will immediately feel any bones, remove them by pulling in their direction to avoid damaging the flesh.

