name:
Zucchini Flowers Stuffed with Burrata and Sun-Dried Tomatoes
ingredients:
Zucchini flowers: 8- large
Burrata cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Sparkling water: 5oz(150 g)- (chilled)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Type 00 flour: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The Stuffed Zucchini Flowers with Speck and Mozzarella are an irresistible and tasty appetizer with timeless flavors. In Liguria, for example, they are enjoyed filled with potatoes and zucchini and then baked; while Roman cuisine offers them fried with a delicious filling of mozzarella and anchovy fillets. Here we propose another tasty and tempting version, in which the zucchini flowers are stuffed with fresh burrata and sun-dried tomatoes! After a delicate cleaning, the flowers are filled with fresh burrata and delicious sun-dried tomatoes before being dipped in batter. To achieve a compact and crispy fried result, ice-cold sparkling water is added, so the flour binds more quickly and effectively. Now that we have revealed some tricks, all that's left is to start preparing this tasty appetizer of zucchini flowers stuffed with burrata and sun-dried tomatoes!
Come and discover other delicious recipes with zucchini flowers:
To prepare the zucchini flowers stuffed with burrata and sun-dried tomatoes, start by gently washing the flowers under running water . Dry them gently with a cloth. Once dry, remove the excrescences while keeping the lower cup intact, gently open the flower to locate the internal pistil. Then remove the pistil from each flower by hand . Slice the burrata .
Drain the tomatoes and pat them with paper towels to remove excess oil, then cut them into small pieces . Start stuffing your zucchini flowers: gently open them and insert a slice of burrata and the tomatoes .
Then gently pinch the leaves with your fingers to close the flowers. Twist the leaves lightly around themselves so the filling doesn't come out and set aside your stuffed zucchini flowers. Meanwhile, prepare the batter: in a bowl, add the flour and the egg yolk . Then also pour in the ice-cold sparkling water and mix with a whisk to avoid lumps .
You should get a smooth batter . In a large pot, heat the oil until it reaches 340-350°F, while in a bowl, put enough flour to coat the flowers. Then dip them one by one in the batter , drain off the excess batter, and coat them in the flour .
Dip the flowers in the hot oil and fry the zucchini flowers one by one for a few minutes until they are golden and crispy; then drain them with a slotted spoon when they are golden . Transfer them to a tray lined with paper towels , salt to taste, and serve them very hot!
Consume the stuffed zucchini flowers immediately to preserve their crispiness.
A voluptuous filling like the one with burrata is unique. However, if you don't have it or don't like it, replace it with something equally gooey and delicious, like mozzarella, stracciatella, or for a lighter option, ricotta.

