name:
Pan-Seared Sea Bream Fillets
ingredients:
Sea bream: 1.2lbs(550 g)- (4 fillets)
Datterino tomatoes: 10.6oz(300 g)- red and yellow
Lemon peel: ½
Garlic: 2cloves
Parsley: 2sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
Even the simplest recipes can become appealing and flavorful dishes, like these delicious pan-seared sea bream fillets, accompanied by a colorful mix of seasonal cherry tomatoes. Just enhance the taste with lemon zest, parsley, and garlic, very few ingredients with great aromatic power, an incomparable note of freshness, making this second course perfect for your summer menus, but not only, discover here other tasty variations of this fish recipe:
To prepare the pan-seared sea bream fillets, chop the parsley making sure to set aside the stems, peel the lemon to obtain the zest , finally wash and cut the cherry tomatoes in half .
In a very large pan, heat the oil with the garlic cloves, parsley stems , and lemon zest over low heat for 5 minutes. After the time is up, increase the heat a bit and place the sea bream fillets skin side down .
As soon as they change color, after about 2 minutes, turn them over and continue cooking for another 2 minutes . When they are ready, place them on a plate and cover them .
You can add the cherry tomatoes to the cooking base . Let them sizzle for about 10 minutes, or until the pulp is softened. Then remove the lemon zest, garlic, and parsley stems . Adjust the salt, add the sea bream fillets, and cook for another 2 minutes, just enough to flavor them .
Turn gently and serve with chopped parsley . The pan-seared sea bream fillets are ready , serve them hot .
We recommend consuming the pan-seared sea bream fillets immediately. If there are leftovers, you can store them in the fridge for one day.
Instead of garlic cloves, shallots can also be used. You can add a few drops of anchovy sauce when cold to enhance the flavor. If you seek a crunchy note, toast some bread in the pan along with desired herbs: garlic, oregano, rosemary, chili pepper, and crumble directly on the surface.

