name:
Soft tart with cream, whipped cream, and strawberries
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: ½cup(120 g)- soft
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Eggs: 4.25oz(120 g)- approximately 2
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: ⅓cup(75 g)
Cornstarch: 2.8tbsp(23 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Egg yolks: 3tbsp(45 g)- (approximately 3)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.4cup(50 g)
Strawberries: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Meringues: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
Since we discovered the smart mold for preparing the soft tart , every sweet occasion is a chance to experiment with all possible flavors: here is the soft tart with cream, whipped cream, and strawberries! Another way to use this particular mold and make your family or friends happy! This mold almost resembles that of a tart, but you will see that by pouring the mixture inside, once the cake is baked and turned upside down, a very clever cavity will have naturally formed ready to be filled! In this recipe, we chose a classic combination: pastry cream , some dollops of Chantilly cream , and a cascade of fresh strawberries. Be honest, don't you want to try this colorful and delicious filling, perfect for spring celebrations!
Come and discover other delicious versions of this dessert :
To prepare the soft tart with cream, whipped cream, and strawberries, start with the pastry cream. Heat the milk in a saucepan until it reaches the first boil . Beat the egg yolks with the sugar and cornstarch .
Once you have a smooth and homogeneous mixture, flavor with the vanilla extract . Pour a little hot milk to temper and stir with a spatula . Then pour the remaining milk back onto the low heat. Cook for a few minutes and stir continuously until the cream thickens.
Once ready , transfer the cream to a low and wide dish and cover with plastic wrap on contact . Let it cool to room temperature and then transfer to the refrigerator. Meanwhile, prepare the base of the soft tart: in a bowl, pour the butter cut into pieces .
Start working it with the electric beaters. As soon as it softens, add the sugar and continue to beat the mixture until it becomes creamy. Add the first egg and work with the electric beaters until it is well absorbed. Then add the second egg and work until it is fully incorporated. Now add the baking powder .
Pour part of the flour . Mix again with the electric beaters. Then add the remaining flour and mix with a spatula until you get a homogeneous mixture . Now pour it into a 9-inch diameter smart mold, previously buttered, and level it with an offset spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 25 minutes.
Once the tart is ready, remove it from the oven and let it cool to room temperature . When it is completely cool, you can turn it upside down on a plate. Take the cream and spread a layer in the center, in the cavity created by the smart mold . Keep in mind that you should set aside about 1/2 cup of pastry cream. Distribute evenly with the spatula .

Place the reserved 1/2 cup of cream in a piping bag without a nozzle, you can keep it in the fridge until ready to use . In a bowl, pour the very cold cream and the seeds from the vanilla pod . Whip with the electric beaters, adding the powdered sugar a little at a time .
When the cream is fluffy , transfer it to a piping bag with a smooth 3/4 inch diameter nozzle and keep in the fridge . Decorate the cake: pipe dollops of cream around the edge .
Also pipe small dollops of cream between each dollop of whipped cream . Wash the strawberries and cut them into wedges . Complete the cake by placing the strawberries in the center and some crumbled meringue. The cake is ready to be served .
The soft tart with cream, whipped cream, and strawberries can be stored in the fridge for up to 2 days, covered. Freezing is not recommended.
The base can be prepared the day before, baked, then cooled and kept under a glass dome.
The pastry cream can also be prepared in advance: cooked, then cooled to room temperature, and stored in the fridge for 1-2 days.
To flavor the base, instead of vanilla, you can use citrus zest.

