name:
Casarecce with ricotta cream, olives, and anchovies
ingredients:
Casarecce pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Anchovies: 3- (in oil)
Taggiasca olives: 3oz(80 g)- (pitted)
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: to taste- (to chop)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
How many times have quick pasta dishes saved our lunch or dinner? Today, we want to extend the list with casarecce with ricotta cream, olives, and anchovies. An easy and quick first course, where the sauce is prepared exactly while the pasta is cooking. In this case, the creaminess of the dish is guaranteed by the presence of ricotta, which, when thinned with a bit of pasta cooking water, without adding milk or cream, results in a lighter and more delicate dish. Talking about casarecce with ricotta cream, olives, and anchovies immediately reminds us of pasta and ricotta but with a nice flavor twist inspired by the recipe for pasta with anchovy cream . What are you waiting for? Try it too; it only takes a moment to prepare!
Don't forget that there are many other pasta dishes to enjoy for quick lunches and dinners, especially always based on casarecce:
To prepare the casarecce with ricotta cream, olives, and anchovies, you can prepare the sauce while the pasta cooks (we highly recommend cooking it al dente!) . Meanwhile, roughly chop the olives , then in a large pan, add the anchovies and the chili pepper sliced into rings .
Add a drizzle of oil and sauté over low heat, the anchovies should melt: it will take 4-5 minutes . Turn off the heat, add the pitted olives and the ricotta along with a ladleful of pasta cooking water . Mix well.
Drain the pasta when there are 2-3 minutes left to the end of the cooking time, directly into the pan with the sauce . You can turn on the burner again on low and mix, adding water as needed. At the end of cooking, add chopped parsley and a drizzle of raw olive oil . If you want a bit more fresh chili pepper sliced into strips and seeds removed, your casarecce with ricotta cream, olives, and anchovies are ready. Enjoy your meal!
It is recommended to consume the casarecce with ricotta cream, olives, and anchovies immediately.
If necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator for a day, adding a bit of hot water to reheat the dish.
Add a touch of savoriness to the dish with a sprinkle of grated salted ricotta.
Instead of parsley, you can give the dish a bit of freshness with some mint leaves.
Pine nuts, walnuts, or almonds will be the ideal crunchy touch for this dish.

