name:
Lemon tart with olive oil shortcrust pastry
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 4oz(110 g)- (about 2)
Peanut seed oil: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)
Baking powder: ½tsp(3 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Whole milk: 1 ⅓cup(300 g)
Egg yolks: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- (approximately 3)
Sugar: ⅓cup(90 g)
Type 00 flour: 3tbsp(25 g)
Lemon juice: ¼cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for the shortcrust pastry and cream

instructions:
The crostata is one of the most classic desserts, always much appreciated. How to turn it into something really special? Our lemon tart with olive oil shortcrust pastry is the answer to this question! To make it, we used a butter-free shortcrust pastry , made with seed oil, for a more delicate taste. The texture will surprise you because the result will be just as crumbly! Inside you will discover a delicate and velvety Lemon Cream , also made with lemon juice, for a touch of acidity. We are sure this dessert will win over all your guests, thanks to its amazing aroma, success is guaranteed! Here are other tarts not to be missed:
To prepare the lemon tart with olive oil shortcrust pastry, first grate the zest of one lemon and squeeze its juice, you will need 50 g (3 tbsp). Then prepare the cream: pour the milk into a pot , add a pinch of salt, and bring it to just below boiling point over low heat. Pour the egg yolks and sugar into a bowl ; mix with a spatula .
Add the sifted flour and mix again . Finally, add the lemon juice and gently mix until you get a homogeneous mixture.
As soon as the milk is just below boiling point, pour it into the egg yolk mixture in 2-3 batches, stirring to temper it. Pour everything back into the pot and return to the heat. Bring to a boil over low heat, stirring well with a spatula, being careful not to let the cream stick to the bottom of the pot. When it starts to thicken , cook for 1-2 minutes, then turn off the heat.
Transfer to a baking dish and cover with plastic wrap in contact with the surface . Let cool first at room temperature, then in the refrigerator. Now prepare the shortcrust pastry. In a bowl, pour the flour and the lemon zest you grated earlier .
Add a pinch of salt, the baking powder , and sugar . Mix with a fork, then pour in the slightly beaten eggs .
Also add the oil and knead with your hands for a short time until you get a compact dough .
Form the dough into a ball, wrap it in plastic wrap , and let it rest in the fridge for about 30 minutes. After the resting time, roll out the shortcrust pastry using a little flour, you should get a thickness of about half a cm (1/5 inch) . Place the shortcrust pastry in a 20 cm (7.8 inch) tart pan, making it adhere well to the base .
Remove the excess pastry from the edges and knead it again. Roll it out and transfer it to the fridge. Poke holes in the pastry with the tines of a fork and pour the lemon cream inside .
Take the shortcrust pastry and make thin lattice strips. Place them first in one direction and then in the other .
After decorating the tart , bake in a preheated conventional oven at 340°F (170°C) for about 45 minutes. Remove the tart from the oven and let it cool before unmolding .
It can be stored for 2-3 days in the fridge. It can also be frozen.
You can use light olive oil instead of seed oil.
You can fill the tart with any jam you like.
To work the lattice strips, roll them out and let them cool before decorating the tart. To give the cream even more aroma, you can infuse the milk with the lemon zest.

