name:
Ham and Cheese Savory Crepes
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Eggs: 3- (medium)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(80 g)
Gruyère cheese (PDO): 7.1oz(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Prosciutto cotto: 14oz(400 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Sage: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Today we are preparing some delicious ham and cheese savory crepes together, perfect for a Sunday family lunch! The recipe is simple, you just need a little patience to make the individual preparations, but the result will be excellent! To make the crepes we used our classic, well-tested batter for sweet and savory crepes . To make them soft and creamy, we prepared the classic béchamel sauce, enriched with lots of cheese! By grating it directly inside, the crepes will be well stuffed, and this sauce will go perfectly with the taste of cooked ham. We chose to finish the dish with sage-flavored butter for a truly unique and aromatic gratin! Let's discover the recipe and all the steps to prepare them!
Want more delicious crepes ideas? Try them all:
To prepare ham and cheese savory crepes, start with the batter. Gently heat the butter to melt it, then turn off the heat and let it cool slightly. Beat the eggs, pour in the milk and mix. Add the cooled melted butter , mix again and sift in the flour .
Mix vigorously with the whisk until you get a smooth, lump-free mixture . At this point, cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rest for at least 30 minutes in the refrigerator. In the meantime, prepare the béchamel. Pour the milk into a saucepan, add nutmeg and salt, then heat.
Put the butter in another saucepan and melt it over low heat, then turn off the heat and add the flour all at once . Stir vigorously with a whisk to avoid lumps. Turn the heat back on and continue stirring until you get a golden mixture, the roux .
At this point, dilute the roux by first pouring in a little hot milk and then all the rest. Continue stirring over low heat until you reach a thick consistency, but more liquid than usual . Quickly grate the Gruyere cheese, removing the rind .
Add it to the hot béchamel . Add some black pepper and stir well until melted .
After 30 minutes, take the crepe batter out of the refrigerator. Heat a crepe maker (or alternatively a 9.5-inch non-stick pan) and grease it with a small amount of butter. Once at temperature, pour a ladle of batter sufficient to cover the surface of the pan : you can use a crepe spreader or rotate the pan to distribute the batter evenly. After about 1 minute over medium-low heat, you should notice a light browning, and the edges will tend to lift, so you can flip the first crepe with a spatula . Also, cook the other side for about 1 minute, waiting for it to color. Once the first one is cooked, transfer it to a plate. Repeat this operation until the batter is finished; you should get 10 crepes with a diameter of 9.5 inches: stack each crepe on top of the other .
Place the crepes on a surface and, one at a time, first stuff them with the cheese béchamel , spreading it well over the entire surface and then with two slices of cooked ham . Fold them in half first .
Then fold them into a fan shape and place them in a baking dish. Continue this way for all the others, slightly overlapping them while placing them in the baking dish . Prepare the brown butter: add the butter and sage to a saucepan .
Cook over medium heat until it turns hazelnut brown . Set aside the butter for a moment and sprinkle the grated cheese over the crepes .
Pour the flavored butter over the crepes, distributing it evenly . Add more sage leaves and bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 5 minutes .
We recommend consuming the crepes immediately. Alternatively, they can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day. You can also freeze the stuffed crepes, before adding butter and cheese: this way you can enjoy them as if freshly made.
If you don't want to use béchamel, you can also just add sliced cheese inside the crepes and bake them until melted.

