name:
Seafood Couscous
ingredients:
Couscous: 1 ½cup(300 g)- precooked
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Calamari (squid): 1.1lbs(500 g)
Shrimps: 0.9lb(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Dry white wine: 1.4oz(40 g)
Garlic: 3cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 2
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Mint: to taste- knife-chopped
Cherry tomatoes: 1lb(450 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Couscous is always a great alternative to dishes based on pasta or rice , thanks to its original format that pairs particularly well with any seasoning: vegetables, chicken, and the indispensable fish version. Today, we invite you to try seafood couscous! A tasty and fragrant dish, perfect to be served hot or cold, like a fresh and colorful salad, perhaps accompanied by a glass of white wine. Arm yourself with patience to clean and shell the various ingredients... actually, get help from friends and family who will be rewarded by sharing such a rich and flavorful dish at the table. Ready to prepare seafood couscous together? If you're looking for other fish-based first courses, try our Scialatielli with seafood or the Italian-style couscous , or try our vegetable couscous !
To prepare seafood couscous, start by cleaning the shellfish and crustaceans. Begin with the How to clean clams : place them in a large bowl and cover with plenty of water , then add coarse salt. Let them soak for 2 hours, occasionally changing the water. After the time has passed, remove any remaining sand inside the shellfish by striking them with the closure facing the cutting board. Then proceed to the cleaning of the mussels . Remove impurities from the shell with the back of a knife. Then pull out the side beard and finally scrub them with a scouring pad . Proceed to the cleaning of the squid : empty them internally and remove the fin .
Cut the squid into rings about 3/8 inch thick . In a large saucepan, heat the oil with two peeled garlic cloves and 1 whole chili pepper . When it is hot, add the mussels and clams .
After a couple of minutes of cooking on high heat, deglaze with the white wine . As soon as the alcohol has completely evaporated, cover with a lid and let cook until they are fully opened . Using a slotted spoon, transfer the shellfish to a bowl , removing the garlic and chili pepper but keeping the cooking liquid.
In a bowl, place a sieve, and pour the cooking liquid . This will strain the sauce from impurities and any shell pieces . Shell most of the shellfish , leaving some whole for decoration.
Heat the filtered shellfish liquid . Pour the couscous into a bowl, add a splash of oil and 1 1/3 cups of the boiling shellfish liquid ,
then cover with plastic wrap and let rest for 5 minutes . After the time has passed, the couscous will have completely absorbed the liquid, it will have swollen, and you can fluff it with a fork . Set it aside and prepare the sauce. Quarter the cherry tomatoes .
Move to the stove and heat the oil with another garlic clove and another chili pepper , letting them sauté for a few minutes. Then add the squid and sauté on high heat for a moment. Season with salt and pepper and remove the garlic and chili pepper .
After 5 minutes of cooking, add the cherry tomatoes and cook for another 4 minutes . Add the shrimp, cooking them for one minute and finally the shelled shellfish, just wait a moment to warm them up a bit .
Turn off the heat and add the couscous . Mix well to combine all the ingredients, then garnish with chopped mint . Your seafood couscous is ready to be enjoyed .
It is advisable to consume seafood couscous immediately. If preferred, it can be stored in the refrigerator in a resealable glass container and consumed within 24 hours of preparation.
Make your seafood couscous tastier by adding or substituting other types of shellfish; we really liked clams and razor clams!

