name:
Parmesan Wafers
ingredients:
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 6oz(150 g)- (1 ounce per wafer)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 2 min
Makes: 6 pieces

instructions:
Parmesan wafers are original baskets that can be easily prepared in just a few minutes! You can fill them in many ways to bring a delicious and different appetizer to the table. The Parmesan wafer should obviously be eaten together with the other ingredients... or last! You can also use these wafers to serve risotto or a salad, certainly adding a touch of extra flavor. We show you the recipe to prepare Parmesan wafers at home with 3 cooking alternatives: in the oven, microwave, or pan! All you have to do is choose the one that suits you. Besides the filling, you can also get creative with the shape, for example, with the same technique you can make smaller wafers without placing them on a bowl, so they will remain flat and will be perfect as a decoration! Here are some delicious ideas to make with the wafers:
To prepare the Parmesan wafers, first cut 6 squares of parchment paper, about 8 inches. Place the first one in a hot pan and put 1 oz of grated Parmigiano Reggiano PDO in the center . Use a spoon to spread the cheese forming a 6-inch circle . Cook over medium heat for about 4 minutes.
In the meantime, turn a small bowl upside down on a surface . When the cheese is completely melted and starts to change color , flip the wafer onto the bowl, being careful not to burn yourself .
Place a cloth over the bowl and gently press so the cheese takes the shape of the bowl . Remove the parchment paper and let it cool completely . Then flip the wafer and proceed the same way to make the others.
You can also prepare the Parmesan wafers in the oven. Prepare the 8-inch parchment paper squares and for each wafer create a 6-inch circle using 1 oz of Parmigiano Reggiano PDO. Use a spoon to spread it. Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 5 minutes. After the baking time, immediately flip each wafer onto a glass bowl, being careful not to burn yourself. Once cool, you can flip them and use them!
You can also prepare the Parmesan wafers in the microwave.
Prepare the 8-inch parchment paper squares and for each wafer create a 6-inch circle using 1 oz of Parmigiano Reggiano PDO. Use a spoon to spread it. Cook in the microwave at 900 W for 50 seconds. After this time, immediately flip each wafer onto a glass bowl, being careful not to burn yourself. Once cool, you can flip them and use them!
It is recommended to prepare the Parmesan wafers at the moment.
You can also make the wafers with grated Grana Padano PDO. Depending on the bowl you choose, you will get different shapes!

