name:
Yogurt, fig, and honey cheesecake
ingredients:
Cookies: 2 ¼cups(270 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Purple figs: 2cups(400 g)
Cream cheese: 3 ⅛cups(750 g)
Greek yogurt: 1.67cups(400 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Wildflower honey: 4 ¾tbsp(100 g)
Powdered sugar: ½cup(60 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Purple figs: 10.6oz(300 g)
Wildflower honey: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + the cooling time in the fridge (at least 4-6 hours)

instructions:
As summer draws to a close, a bit of melancholy sets in, but figs arrive at our tables to console us. We can use them to make delicious cakes , Fig and Mascarpone Tart , cookies , and even a fantastic yogurt, fig, and honey cheesecake! We used these sweet fruits in two different ways: cooked to spread over the classic biscuit base and fresh slices to insert into the no-bake filling. Finally, the honey is irresistible with the figs and yogurt! Perfect for impressing guests with its scenic decoration, the yogurt, fig, and honey cheesecake will be a delightful surprise to discover spoonful by spoonful.
To make the yogurt, fig, and honey cheesecake, start with the cheesecake base: melt the butter over very low heat and let it cool. Pour the cookies into a mixer and blend them. Add the previously melted butter to the cookies and mix well to combine. Use the combined mixture to cover the base of a 9.5-inch diameter pan lined with parchment paper. Press well with the back of a spoon to have an even thickness and place in the refrigerator to set for about 30 minutes.
In the meantime, peel 200 g of figs , put them in a small pot , and cook over medium heat for about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally to break them down completely . Then remove from heat and let cool.
Now prepare the cream: soak the gelatin in cold water for about 10 minutes while heating the honey in a small pot. When the honey approaches boiling, turn off the heat and add the well-drained gelatin , then mix quickly to combine and let it cool.
In a large bowl, combine the Greek yogurt with the cream cheese and mix (with an electric whisk or a spatula), then add the honey in which you melted the cooled gelatin and mix again .
Pour the cream into another bowl, add the powdered sugar , and whisk to a firm and frothy consistency. Combine the whipped cream with the yogurt and cheese mixture and mix well with a whisk (or spatula) .
Cut 200 g of figs into slices 1/8 - 1/4 inch thick, without removing the skin: you'll need them for the filling . At this point, take the cookie base from the refrigerator and spread the cooked figs over it, which should have cooled in the meantime . Add half of the cream and level with a spatula.
Place the fig slices all over the surface and cover with the remaining cream . Level with the spatula and place in the refrigerator to set for at least 4-6 hours.
After this time, remove the cheesecake from the mold and transfer it to a serving plate. Cut the figs for decoration into thin slices, still without removing the skin, and arrange them on the surface creating an outer and inner circle . Add a few fresh mint leaves and garnish with a drizzle of honey: your yogurt, fig, and honey cheesecake is ready to be served !
The yogurt, fig, and honey cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator covered with a glass dome for a maximum of 1-2 days, preferably without decoration. Freezing is not recommended.
For a more delicate taste, you can replace the cream cheese with the same amount of ricotta.

