name:
Cozze alla tarantina (Mussels Taranto Style)
ingredients:
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Canned tomatoes: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 1
White wine: 1.8oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Bread: 8slices- Apulian

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Apulia is famous for its sun, beaches, sea, and orecchiette ; but those who love this region cannot help but also love the Apulian cuisine: tasty dishes in their simplicity... like fried mussels or those we present today: Cozze alla tarantina (Mussels Taranto Style) , which we propose in this recipe! A kind of mussel soup perfect to serve as an easy and quick appetizer! The flavors are reminiscent of a classic sauté, but the slightly spicy tomato sauce makes the Taranto-style mussels a delicious and complete dish! The perfect mix: the tenderness of the mollusks, the body of the tomato, and the crunchiness of the hot bread: no one will be able to resist and will surrender without hesitation... to making a scarpetta!
To prepare the Cozze alla tarantina (Mussels Taranto Style) , first, take care of the mollusk cleaning . Rinse the mussels under running water , then using the back of a knife remove all external impurities and pull off the beard with a firm motion .
Pour half of the indicated amount of oil into a pot and add a whole peeled garlic clove ; let it turn golden and pour in the mussels . Add a whole sprig of parsley and the white wine to deglaze ,
then cover with a lid and let the mussels open : it will take about 4 minutes, as soon as they open you can turn off the heat. In the meantime, remove the seeds from the chili pepper and chop it finely .
Pour the remaining oil into another pot, add the chili pepper and the other crushed garlic clove , let the sauté brown over very low heat, stirring occasionally. Then add the tomato pulp , season with a grind of pepper and a pinch of salt (just a pinch because the mussels are already very flavorful), being careful not to overdo it because the mussels will already be very flavorful . Let the sauce cook for 5-6 minutes, stirring it occasionally.
Strain the mussels, collecting the broth in a small bowl , so that you can pour it more easily into the sauce . Let it cook for another 10 minutes; in the meantime, remove the garlic and parsley from the mussels and set them aside.
Only the crunchy accompaniment is missing: slice the Apulian bread , place it on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and drizzle with a little oil , then toast it for a few minutes in the oven under the grill at 480°F for 3 minutes, until it is well browned .
Once the sauce is ready, add the mussels and stir . Then finely chop the parsley
and add it to your Cozze alla tarantina (Mussels Taranto Style) . Wait another 3 minutes, sprinkle with a generous dash of black pepper if you prefer, stir one last time and serve the Taranto-style mussels along with the toasted bread !
It is recommended to consume the Cozze alla tarantina (Mussels Taranto Style) immediately. Freezing is not recommended.
Transform the Cozze alla tarantina (Mussels Taranto Style) into a main course by using their sauce with your favorite pasta shape!

