name:
Gong Bao Chicken
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 0.9lb(400 g)
Green peppers: 1 ¼cup(110 g)
Red peppers: 4oz(110 g)
Onions: 3oz(80 g)
Peanuts: ½cup(70 g)
Soy sauce: 3spoonfuls
Hot sauce: 2tsp
Potato starch: 1spoonful
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Rice wine: 2spoonfuls
Soy sauce: 2spoonfuls
Potato starch: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare gong bao chicken, start by cutting the chicken breast first into strips and then into cubes . Place the chicken cubes in a bowl and season with rice wine and soy sauce .
Season with salt and pepper , mix, and add potato starch . Mix again and let it rest for 30 minutes covered with plastic wrap in a cool, dry place .
Take the bell peppers and cut them first into strips and then into pieces. Clean and cut the onion into pieces as well .
Heat a wok, then pour a little vegetable oil and add the vegetables . Briefly stir-fry the vegetables, then add the chicken .
Stir and stir-fry over high heat, then deglaze with soy sauce . Also add the spicy sauce and the peanuts .
In a small bowl, pour water and potato starch , then mix well . When the chicken is well cooked, pour the mixture into the wok and cook for a couple more minutes.
At the end of cooking, a dash of vegetable oil to give shine to the dish . Your gong bao chicken is ready to serve accompanied by steamed rice !
Gong bao chicken can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
Rice wine can be replaced with sake or mirin.
Chef Mulan from Mulan Group , the Zhang family company that has been operating in Chinese gastronomy for over twenty years: iconic dishes and many delicacies made as they would be at home. This makes them unique: artisanal production that combines the genuineness of a homemade meal and the authenticity of tradition. The attention dedicated to manual processing is perceived in the natural taste and quality of the details. From the method of closing Chinese dumplings to the meticulous cooking processes of traditional ingredients, everything is done according to ancient oriental culinary art.

