name:
French fries
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.8lbs(800 g)- preferably waxy
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: 3cups(700 g)- for frying

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
French fries... the most loved food in the world? Although it is not possible to establish, many say yes! These crispy potato sticks cooked in deep oil are appreciated by young and old in any region and country, served in the most varied ways! Vietnam wins in terms of strangeness, in fact, here the fries are served with butter and sugar, an unusual ingredient for our tastes. In Peru, they are added to Lomo saltado , a typical meat-based dish. More commonly known as french fries , or just fries , in the United States, the fries are covered with chili, cheese, and finely chopped scallions. Frietje Speciaal are the fries of the Netherlands, really special especially thanks to the accompanying sauces: mayonnaise, onion, and peanut butter! Passing through Spain, we find the Patatas bravas , literally wild potatoes, enriched with paprika and tabasco! In Belgium, the simplicity returns with the most classic sauce: mayonnaise! And after going around the world of this fantastic street food, we suggest you prepare them in our classic but simply irresistible version... in a few and easy steps! Also, try our fried sweet potatoes !
Start preparing the fries by peeling the potatoes (you can use yellow-fleshed potatoes or your preferred type, avoiding red ones as they have low moisture content and are not ideal), then cut them: first into slices about 1/2 inch thick and then into thick matchstick shapes about 1/2 inch thick .
Heat the oil in a pan and when it reaches a temperature of 340°F (you can use a kitchen thermometer to measure the exact temperature), immerse a few potatoes at a time . Wait about 5 minutes and when they are well golden, use a slotted spoon to drain them from the oil
and transfer them to a tray lined with kitchen paper , to remove excess oil. Continue frying the potatoes and salt them as you go . Serve the fries while still hot and crispy , as they will tend to become softer as they sit.
Consume the fries freshly prepared to enjoy them crispy. Any kind of preservation is not recommended.
If you want to obtain truly crispy fries, soak the freshly cut potato sticks in a bowl of cold water for about 1 hour, this will help remove excess starch... and don't forget to dry them before frying!

