name:
Lemon Cake Roll
ingredients:
Eggs: 4- medium
Sugar: ⅔cup(115 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅔cup(80 g)
Lemon peel: 1-
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Cornstarch: 2tbsp(25 g)
Lemon juice: ⅔cup(150 g)
Lemon peel: 2-
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Gelatin in sheets: 0.2oz(5 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note plus 3 hours of setting

instructions:
For today's recipe, we were inspired by the scents of the Amalfi Coast and its characteristic lemon gardens... imagine picking a lovely basket of them; what would you use them for? We opted for a delicious lemon cake roll, a dessert with a strong character but a tender... or rather soft heart! The fluffy sponge cake embraces a joyful swirl of cream with an intense lemon flavor, which with its freshness is perfect for ending a dinner with your friends. Make this lemon roll too, your guests won't be able to resist this delight... before it finishes, save a slice for yourself!
To prepare the lemon cake roll, break the eggs into a bowl and start beating them with electric whisks, adding the zest of 1 lemon , then slowly add the granulated sugar in several additions . Continue to beat until you get a puffy and frothy mixture .
At this point, sift the flour into it and mix with a spatula from bottom to top so as to incorporate the flour without deflating the mixture. Butter a baking tray about 12x15 inches and line it with parchment paper, then pour the batter into the center of the tray
and use a spatula to spread it over the entire surface . Bake in a preheated conventional oven at 430°F for 8-9 minutes. Once baked, remove your sponge cake and if it has stuck to the edges of the tray, gently detach it using a knife blade . Very gently transfer the sponge cake to a cutting board, then cover with a sheet of parchment paper
and gently flip the sponge cake : this way, as it cools, it will remain moist and flexible. Now, make the lemon cream that will be used to fill the roll. Pour the milk into a saucepan , add the zest of 2 lemons ,
then squeeze them to get 5.3 oz of juice and pour them into the milk . Bring everything to a simmer and meanwhile, soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for at least ten minutes; then pour the yolks into a bowl, add the granulated sugar
and quickly beat the eggs and sugar . Sift the starch directly into the yolk and sugar mixture and continue to beat until you get a smooth cream .
When the milk starts to boil, strain it directly into the mixture , to retain the lemon zest; then mix with a whisk and pour back into the pan .
Continue cooking for 4-5 minutes until the cream thickens, then turn off the heat, squeeze the gelatin sheets and add them to the cream stirring immediately until they dissolve . Transfer your lemon cream into a bowl, cover with plastic wrap and let it cool.
At this point, pour the cold heavy cream into a bowl and whip it, adding the powdered sugar . Once the cream is well whipped, add it to your lemon cream in several additions and without deflating it, always making movements from bottom to top .
Now cover with plastic wrap and put the cream in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour to set. After this time, the sponge cake will also be completely cold; take it and gently remove the parchment paper , then pour the lemon cream
and use a spatula to spread it evenly over the entire roll, leaving about 1/2 inch from the edge . Now gently roll it up from the longer side (32-33)
and place the roll first in a sheet of parchment paper, wrap it, then wrap it again in plastic wrap , rolling the ends to close it "like a candy" . Put it in the refrigerator to firm up for at least 2 hours before serving it ; note that the longer it firms up in the fridge, the more consistent the cream will be! Enjoy your lemon cake roll for a delicious end to a meal!
The lemon cake roll can be stored for 2-3 days in the refrigerator. Alternatively, you can portion it and freeze it in the appropriate containers!
This cream has a very concentrated lemon flavor, if you do not like its taste too much, you can replace part of the juice with whole milk! This way, you will get a sweeter cream with a hint of lemon!

