name:
Avocado Salad
ingredients:
Arugula: 2.8oz(80 g)
Avocado: 1- ripe
Datterino tomatoes: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Pumpkin seeds: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Taggiasca olives: 1.8oz(50 g)
Lemon juice: 1-
Fresh chili pepper: 2-
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)-
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste- (optional)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Avocado: more than a fruit, a superfood! Thanks to its many beneficial properties and high antioxidant content! Here at Giallozafferano, we didn't miss the chance to enjoy it in a refreshing salad , perfect as a summer dish: avocado salad! The side dish you were looking for to accompany your main courses or to enjoy on its own. Imagine how much more pleasant and tasty your lunch break at the office will be, perhaps adding arugula only at the last minute to prevent it from wilting in contact with the lemon dressing and other ingredients! Enjoy all the pleasure of this precious food with its ripe pulp that perfectly matches the sweetness of cherry tomatoes, the crunchiness of pumpkin seeds, and the savoriness of Taggiasca olives: prepare the avocado salad with us!
To prepare the avocado salad, you can start by draining the Taggiasca olives from their preservation oil , then prepare the lemon dressing: take the fresh chili peppers (if you prefer, you can use kitchen gloves; otherwise, remember to wash your hands very well after cleaning and slicing them to avoid irritation), remove the stalk and open them to remove the seeds . Then slice them thinly .
Squeeze the juice of 1 lemon , then strain it and pour it into a jar (you can also emulsify the lemon dressing in a small bowl using a whisk or a fork).
Add a pinch of salt , pepper (optional), and the fresh chili pepper , then add the extra virgin olive oil .
Close and shake the jar to emulsify the mixture, and your lemon dressing will be ready . Pour it into a bowl where you will dress the salad. Wash and dry the cherry tomatoes and arugula well, then cut the cherry tomatoes in half lengthwise .
Then cut the avocado in half and peel it (if very ripe, you can scoop out the pulp with a spoon), dice the pulp . Now, pour the Taggiasca olives into the bowl where you had placed the lemon dressing .
Add the avocado and mix carefully so that the avocado does not oxidize thanks to the dressing. Also, add the cherry tomatoes .
Then add the arugula and finally the crunchy note: the pumpkin seeds ; mix well and your avocado salad is ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the avocado salad immediately to prevent the arugula from absorbing too much dressing and wilting.
Freezing is not recommended.
Let your imagination run wild! You can make this big salad even more delicious and colorful by adding feta cheese, for example, or salted ricotta. You can remove the cherry tomatoes and olives and instead add melon; or an alternative with julienned bell peppers or carrots! We'll leave it to your taste and love for plant-based ingredients!

