name:
Chicken Strips
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: 3.5oz(100 g)
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste-
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste-

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Chicken strips are an easy and quick main course, ideal for your everyday menus! The chicken breast is a very versatile ingredient that lends itself well to various and appetizing combinations. After proposing the version of Baked chicken breast with scamorza , today we are preparing a recipe to cook the chicken breast in a pan, achieving an equally tasty result, also great to try with other meats like turkey strips . These tender pieces of meat flavored with white wine and scented with a fresh parsley mince are perfect for your last-minute dinners. If after enjoying the chicken strips you feel like experimenting with more elaborate versions, try the Chicken Strips alla Sorrentina , a delicious reinterpretation of the namesake gnocchi, or the tasty Chicken strips with radicchio !
To prepare the chicken strips, start by cleaning the chicken breast from bones, fat, and cartilage . Cut the meat into strips about 3/8 inch thick . Flour them and remove the excess.
Chop the parsley . Heat plenty of oil in a pan with the garlic , let it flavor, and then remove the garlic clove .
Add the chicken . Let it brown over high heat, stirring often for 3-4 minutes so that it browns without burning. At this point, deglaze with the wine , lower the heat, and cook for another 1-2 minutes, shaking the pan occasionally.
Flavor with the chopped parsley , salt, and pepper . Stir and serve your chicken strips hot !
It is recommended to consume the chicken strips immediately.
To give a fresh and fragrant note to your dish, you can drizzle the chicken strips with lemon juice instead of wine or, alternatively, garnish with lemon zest! If you like the intense flavor of spices, try adding sweet or hot paprika or curry.

