name:
Pasta and ricotta
ingredients:
Fusilli pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)- to grate
Fresh liquid cream: 0.3cup(70 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Do you only have ricotta in the fridge and friends are coming over for dinner? Don’t worry: you’ll still impress them by preparing pasta and ricotta! This delicious first course is prepared in no time and is therefore ideal for a last-minute lunch or dinner. It involves few ingredients but to make it tasty, it is important that the ricotta is very fresh: ricotta is the undisputed queen of this dish, flavored with Parmigiano and thyme for a touch of taste and freshness, and blended with a bit of fresh cream that will give it an irresistible creaminess. With its simplicity, pasta and ricotta will win everyone over, try it to believe it! If you’re looking for an alternative version (and have a few extra ingredients in the fridge), also try the version Pasta with ricotta cream and fava beans , the with basil , or the pappardelle with sautéed zucchini and orange ricotta cream!
To prepare pasta and ricotta, first bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the pasta for 10 minutes or the time indicated on the package, ensuring it is cooked al dente. Meanwhile, you can prepare the sauce: with the help of a spatula, sift the ricotta into a bowl through a fine mesh strainer to achieve a nice smooth consistency .
Then add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano and fresh cream and mix well with the spatula .
Add the thyme leaves , mix again , and finally adjust with salt and pepper .
Drain the pasta al dente, saving a little of the cooking water, and pour it directly into the bowl with the ricotta mixture ; mix well to combine the pasta with the sauce , thinning it with a ladle of cooking water if necessary: your creamy pasta and ricotta is ready to be served !
It's best to consume pasta and ricotta immediately. However, you can store it in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
Want a richer and more intense flavor? Try using half cow’s milk ricotta and half sheep or buffalo ricotta, or replace the grated Parmesan with Pecorino Romano! Want a lighter and more delicate flavor? Instead of cream, you can thin the mixture with milk or pasta cooking water. A summer version? Serve your pasta and ricotta lukewarm... it will be delicious! For decoration, you can opt for some basil leaves: they'll add a fresh flavor and a touch of color to the dish.
Ricotta is a cheese with very ancient origins. It was already used by the ancient Romans, although its use became more widespread during the medieval period.

