name:
Oat Flakes Focaccias
ingredients:
Rolled oats: ¼cup(50 g)- organic
Brewer's yeast: 0.1oz(4 g)
Type 1 flour: 2 ¾cups(335 g)
Whole grain flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: 2 ½tsp(12 g)
Water: 1 ¾cup(415 g)- at room temperature
Salt: to taste
Water: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Cook time: 22 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Note plus 5 hours of rising

instructions:
Genuine and tasty, this is the ideal break that everyone desires, and we have found the perfect solution with oat flakes focaccias. A guaranteed delight that will not disappoint at the first bite: as soft as all focaccias , thanks to a light and aerated dough, with a pleasantly crunchy surface, enhanced by the oat flakes sprinkled on the focaccias before baking. The dough requires time and care, which will be rewarded once these rustic delicacies are baked. During baking, they will release their fragrance, teasing the appetite of the whole family, and the compliments will not be long in coming!
To make the oat flakes focaccias, first get a wooden kneading board, placing a damp cloth underneath to keep it steady on the work surface . Pour in the flours and yeast and mix with a wooden spoon to combine them. Add the water gradually
while continuing to mix . When the mass becomes more consistent and the water is absorbed, continue kneading for a few minutes using the spoon, until the dough wraps around it, now well developed. Then add the salt , and once absorbed, also add the oil .
Let it absorb again and let the dough rest at room temperature for 10-15 minutes covered with a cloth . After this initial rest, with oiled hands, form 4 strengthening folds ; in this first phase, the dough will still be very hydrated, and the folds will be barely noticeable, but do not worry.
Cover the dough again with a cloth and let it rest for another 10-15 minutes, then repeat the operation by making 4 folds: this time, the dough will respond more easily to the folds . Cover and let it rest for another 10-15 minutes, after which repeat the operation and add the oat flakes , using a dough scraper to fold until the oat flakes are absorbed .
Once the folds are made, oil a bowl , pour the dough into it , cover with plastic wrap or a cloth , and let it rest at room temperature in a draft-free place (like the turned-off oven) for at least 3 hours.
After the resting time, the dough will have approximately doubled in size : transfer it to a floured work surface , using a spatula, give it 4 folds
and let it relax for about ten minutes covered with a cloth . Then use a dough cutter to divide the dough into 12 pieces of about 2.5 oz each . Give each piece 4 strengthening folds
and form your balls , placing them well spaced on 2 baking trays lined with parchment paper and dusted with flour . Cover with a cloth and let them rise for another hour at a constant temperature (you can place them in the turned-off oven).
Prepare the brine for the surface: in a tall glass, pour the water , the oil , and the salt, emulsify with an immersion blender (27-28) or whisk the liquids with a fork.
With your fingers dipped in the brine, gently press the balls to form the focaccias. Let them rest for another half hour, then press some more indentations on the surface, distribute the remaining brine to fill the dimples
and sprinkle with oat flakes and salt flakes. Bake in the middle rack of a preheated conventional oven at 430°F and cook for 22 minutes. After baking , let them cool slightly and then enjoy your oat flakes focaccias .
The oat flakes focaccias can be stored in a paper bag for one day. You can freeze them after baking.
These focaccias are perfect for a savory filling with grilled vegetables or cheeses, or why not, even sweet!

