name:
Tzatziki and Tuna Sandwiches
ingredients:
Tuna in oil: 5.6oz(160 g)- in extra virgin olive oil (drained)
Sandwich bread: 3slices
Cucumbers: 1
Greek yogurt: 0.85cup(200 g)
Lemon juice: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Mint: 1tsp(5 g)
Garlic: 3cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for the sauce in the refrigerator (20 min.)

instructions:
Tzatziki and tuna sandwiches are the ideal recipe for those with little time but lots of hungry friends! A simple and appetizing snack that combines the delicate taste of tuna with the unmistakable flavors of the famous Greek sauce made from yogurt, garlic, and cucumber, tzatziki . Unlike the original recipe, however, in this case, the cucumber is not added to the sauce but is used to create an outer wrapping that gives the sandwich not only a fresh and crunchy note but also a decidedly inviting appearance! Perfect for a summer lunch or a drink with friends, tzatziki and tuna sandwiches are a tasty alternative to the classic sandwich, an easy and creative way to impress without sacrificing flavor!
To make the tzatziki and tuna sandwiches, first prepare the sauce: chop the mint leaves that you have washed and dried , then chop the garlic cloves and mash them on a cutting board with the flat side of a kitchen knife to create a paste . Now pour the yogurt into a bowl and add the olive oil ,
salt, pepper , lemon zest , lemon juice ,
the chopped mint and garlic paste , then stir with a teaspoon and place in the refrigerator to rest for about 20 minutes to cool well.
In the meantime, take the cucumber and slice it very thinly with a vegetable peeler ; once you reach the seedier central part, turn the cucumber and continue slicing from the opposite side. Arrange the obtained slices on a cutting board side by side, slightly overlapping . Place a slice of bread in the center, opposite to the direction of the cucumber slices, and spread it with a tablespoon of yogurt sauce ,
then flip the bread slice over and spread the other side with yogurt sauce as well. Add a few pieces of well-drained tuna and cover with another slice of bread .
Spread this slice with yogurt sauce as well , add a few more pieces of tuna , and cover with the third slice of bread, pressing lightly .
Spread a final layer of sauce on top , then lift the cucumber slices that hang off the side with the help of a knife blade and gently wrap them around the bread to cover it .
Finally, flip the sandwich over to cover it entirely with the cucumber slices, keeping the closure at the bottom . Cut the sandwich in half and cut each half into 2 triangles : your tzatziki and tuna sandwiches are ready to be enjoyed !
Tzatziki and tuna sandwiches can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 day, covered with a sheet of damp paper towel.
You can add cucumber cubes to the sauce for an even fresher and crunchier note!

