name:
Linguine with Monkfish Ragu
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 12.3oz(350 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 0.6lb(250 g)
Monkfish: 0.9lb(400 g)- flesh
Black olives: 1.8oz(50 g)- pitted
White wine: 1.4oz(40 g)
Parsley: ½tsp(2 g)- chopped
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Linguine with monkfish ragù is a simple and quick first course to make, yet really tasty and refined. In this recipe, we suggest pairing linguine (also known as bavette) with a delicious cherry tomato sauce enriched with monkfish cubes and black olive slices. The monkfish, is a saltwater fish that inhabits sandy and rocky seabeds. Its characteristic appearance resembles that of a frog. It's a very light and versatile fish in the kitchen because it does not have bones, and its meat does not tend to flake during cooking. It's often used for the typical Monkfish in Broth . Surprise your guests with linguine with monkfish ragù!
Start preparing the linguine with monkfish ragù by cutting the fish into fairly thick slices and removing the central bone with a knife , making sure to eliminate all possible residues. Then cut the monkfish fillets into cubes .
Wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half . Now, proceed to slice the olives into rings . Finally, chop the parsley and set everything aside .
In a pan, heat 3 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil, add the clove of garlic, let it brown, then remove it . Add the fresh chili pepper, deseeded and cut into slices . Let it slightly flavor and then add the monkfish cubes .
Let them brown for a few minutes, season with salt , and deglaze with white wine over high heat . Once all the wine has evaporated, add the cherry tomatoes .
At this point, add the previously sliced black olives . Mix the ingredients well, let the cherry tomatoes slightly wilt, and add the parsley . Once the sauce has thickened, add a pinch of pepper and turn off the heat .
Meanwhile, cook the linguine in plenty of boiling salted water . Drain them al dente and pour them into the pan with the monkfish ragù , mix well , and serve the linguine with monkfish ragù hot, optionally adding a drizzle of raw extra virgin olive oil.
It is advisable to consume the linguine with monkfish ragù as soon as they are ready! Otherwise, you can store them in an airtight container for up to one day!
If you buy monkfish with the head, don't throw it away but use it to make an excellent fish broth!

