name:
Rice croquettes with provola and prosciutto cotto
ingredients:
Saffron risotto: 14.1oz(400 g)
Smoked provola cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 2.8oz(80 g)- diced
Eggs: 2
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 2 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low
Note the cooking time is intended for each croquette

instructions:
Rice croquettes with provolone and prosciutto cotto are a delightful appetizer made with leftover rice. Yes, that's right, because in the kitchen, waste is not allowed. In fact, we'll show you that delicious dishes can be made from leftovers like our croquettes! Making them is very simple: small bites are created with rice and stuffed with the most tempting ingredients. We chose provolone and cooked ham, but you can use whatever you prefer. To make our croquettes even more inviting, we breaded and then fried them to create golden and crispy bites. Serve the rice croquettes with provolone and ham as an appetizer or finger food; your guests will be thrilled!
Also try the version with Ham Croquettes !
To make the rice croquettes with provolone and prosciutto cotto, take the leftover risotto. We used classic saffron risotto. To prepare it best, you can follow the recipe found in the Saffron risotto card. The leftover risotto was stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap. Remove it from the fridge and meanwhile prepare two small bowls containing cubed cooked ham and provolone also cut into small bites . Take a handful of rice, about a tablespoon, and work it with your hands to shape it like an egg ,
then press the center to create a hollow for the filling . Fill the croquettes with a few cubes of cooked ham and provolone and then close with more rice so that the filling does not spill out ,
press the croquette well with your hands to compact it and then place it on a tray lined with parchment paper . Continue in this manner until the ingredients are used up. With the given quantities, you will obtain about 12 croquettes weighing 2.5 oz each. Now that the croquettes are ready, you can proceed with the breading: in a bowl, place the eggs and beat them with a fork, salt
and pepper . Then also put the breadcrumbs in a baking dish ; at this point, you can start breading the croquettes by dipping them one at a time first in the egg
and then in the breadcrumbs . Place the breaded croquettes on the tray lined with parchment paper and prepare for frying: heat a pot with plenty of vegetable oil, the ideal temperature is about 340-360°F. If you don't have a thermometer, drop a pinch of breadcrumbs into the oil; if it sizzles, it's ready for frying. Fry the croquettes a few at a time so as not to lower the oil temperature too much
and cook them until they are completely golden, about a couple of minutes . When cooked, drain the croquettes with a slotted spoon and place them on a tray lined with absorbent paper to remove excess oil . Alternatively, you can bake the croquettes in a preheated static oven at 400°F for about 10 minutes or until golden. Your rice croquettes with provolone and cooked ham are ready to be enjoyed hot!
It is recommended to consume the croquettes hot to enjoy them at their best. The croquettes can be frozen before or after frying.
You can be creative when filling the rice croquettes: you can use diced pancetta instead of prosciutto cotto, or other types of cheese like Emmental or Fontina. For a vegetarian version, you can also fill the croquettes with peas or diced zucchini sautéed in a pan.

