name:
Scampi alla busara
ingredients:
Scampi: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Peeled tomatoes: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Dry white wine: 1.7oz(50 ml)
Breadcrumbs: 2tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 2spoonfuls- to chop
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Who said cooking fish is difficult? In 30 minutes, you can prepare a simple yet flavorful fish main course: Scampi alla Busara, a tasty stew of scampi with tomato, garlic, chili pepper, and parsley. Scampi alla Busara is a dish contested between the Veneto and Friuli Venezia Giulia regions; in reality, it is a typical dish of the city of Trieste, which most likely inherited it from Dalmatian-Istrian influences. The meaning of the term busara or buzara is still not very clear: according to some, busara was an iron pot used to prepare meals on fishing boats; according to others, it derives from "busiara," which in the local dialect means lie or trick and refers to the fact that the recipe requires the scampi to be "tricked," that is, covered, hidden, with tomato; finally, others suggest that busara means soup. Scampi alla Busara is prepared with few ingredients and should absolutely be eaten with your hands, at least in Friuli Venezia Giulia!
To prepare Scampi alla Busara, first wash the scampi well under cold running water . With a sharp knife or scissors, make a vertical cut along the back or the belly, to facilitate extracting the meat once cooked. If you prefer, you can also leave them whole. In a large pan, brown a clove of garlic in extra virgin olive oil ;
also add the whole fresh chili pepper . You can skewer both the garlic and the chili pepper with a toothpick to make them easier to remove at the end of cooking. When the garlic is browned, add the breadcrumbs , which will serve to thicken the tomato pulp, and stir quickly to avoid burning it. Immediately after, add the scampi , better not to overlap them to ensure even cooking, and
deglaze with white wine . Let it evaporate for a couple of minutes, then salt and add the peeled tomatoes cut into pieces , give a stir and
cover the pan with a lid . Let it cook for about 15 minutes. Meanwhile, finely chop the parsley and, once cooked, sprinkle it over the scampi .
Before serving the Scampi alla Busara, remove the chili pepper and garlic clove (13-14): your Scampi alla Busara is ready !
You can store Scampi alla Busara in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, and consume it the next day at the latest. You can freeze raw scampi, only if fresh, and thaw them in the refrigerator the day before using them.
If you detest garlic, remove it, but do not replace it with onion: a true Triestino would never do so! And indeed, they wouldn't be entirely wrong: the dish is already sweet thanks to the scampi, why make it even sweeter with onion? Instead, you can substitute the tomato pulp without fear of being ostracized by Trieste and its surroundings: for example, with vine tomatoes (we recommend blanching them before peeling, it will take no time).

