name:
Lasagna alla Norma
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Eggplant: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: 6leaves
Salted ricotta cheese: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 4.4cups(1 kg)
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 ml)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
Lasagna alla Norma is a unique-tasting main course, oven-baked lasagna Lasagne without Béchamel inspired by traditional Sicilian Pasta alla Norma, made with ricotta and eggplant, a tasty and much-loved combination, perfect for the summer season. To make it, prepare a simple tomato sauce, scented with basil, grill the eggplant, and then cut it into cubes and finally mix the ricotta with milk to create a delicious cream. Once this is done, you just need to assemble the lasagna, filling egg pasta sheets, preferably rough and porous, to better absorb the filling. Serve the lasagna alla Norma, and you will win over everyone!
For the autumn season, try our Mountain Lasagna !
Discover more delicious Lasagna recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the lasagna alla Norma, start by preparing the tomato sauce. In a pot, heat a drizzle of olive oil and sauté a clove of garlic. Pour in the tomato puree , add salt , pepper, and cook the sauce. At the end of cooking, scent with basil leaves , turn off the heat, and set the sauce aside.
Now wash and trim the eggplants, slice them with a mandoline to get slices about 1/3 inch thick . Heat a griddle, brush it with oil, and then grill the eggplant slices on one side and then the other until golden brown . Let them cool and then cut them into cubes .
Now prepare the ricotta cream: in a bowl, mix the ricotta with milk , stir with a whisk to obtain a soft and homogeneous mixture. Add salt, pepper , and flavor with a pinch of nutmeg .
Finally, grate the salted ricotta . At this point, everything is ready to assemble the lasagna: take a baking dish, spread a layer of tomato sauce and season with oil .
Then lay down a first layer of lasagna sheets , continue with a layer of tomato sauce , ricotta cream , and eggplant cubes,
a sprinkle of grated salted ricotta and continue with another layer of sheets, alternating layers until you use up all the ingredients. Finish with a layer of eggplant and salted ricotta . Cook in a preheated static oven at 425°F for 20 minutes. Once cooked, take the lasagna alla Norma out of the oven and enjoy !
You can store lasagna alla Norma in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for 1-2 days. They can be prepared the day before, kept in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap, and baked the next day. They can be frozen, only if all fresh ingredients were used, preferably raw: to cook them, just thaw them in the refrigerator about 24 hours before and then bake them.
If you want an even richer flavor, you can fry the eggplant in seed oil instead of grilling them.

