name:
How to pasteurize eggs
ingredients:
Egg yolks: 2.6oz(75 g)- (about 5) at room temperature
Sugar: 3cups(170 g)
Water: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Egg whites: 4.4oz(125 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Eggs: 3
Sugar: 5.3oz(150 g)
Water: 1.7tbsp(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Today we will show you a very important technique in pastry making to avoid the use of raw eggs in dessert preparations: how to pasteurize eggs. In reality, this is a homemade method that does not eliminate 100% the risk of salmonella or issues related to the use of raw eggs. For that, it is always better to buy eggs in cartons at the supermarket, which have undergone industrial pasteurization processes, the safest. However, we will explain how to make the syrup to treat the yolks by preparing Pâte à bombe , the egg whites by preparing Italian meringue , and also a technique to pasteurize whole eggs at home. First, we will need to get a kitchen thermometer and prepare a water and sugar syrup that reaches 250°F. This is the right temperature at which the syrup will have the right sugar concentration, allowing the mixture to be sanitized and stabilized. With this method, you can prepare, for example, mascarpone cream for excellent Tiramisù with pasteurized eggs !
To treat the yolks, prepare the pâte à bombe: in a saucepan, pour the sugar and immediately the water so as to moisten it evenly. Start cooking the syrup over low heat and occasionally check the temperature using a kitchen thermometer; it should reach 250°F. When it reaches 240°F , pour the yolks into a bowl.
Start whisking them with an electric mixer and as soon as the syrup reaches 250°F , slowly pour it into the yolks, still with the beaters running, at low speed . This way, the syrup will not splash on the sides of the bowl and won't solidify.
Continue whisking, slightly increasing the speed of the beaters until you get a light, fluffy, and frothy mixture . Continue working until it returns to room temperature. The pâte à bombe is ready to be used in many recipes .
To treat the egg whites, make the Italian meringue: pour the sugar into a heavy-bottomed saucepan , add the water to moisten the sugar evenly and cook over low heat . Immerse a food thermometer to indicate the temperature; you should reach 250°F. Meanwhile, collect the egg whites in a bowl .
When the syrup temperature reaches 240°F, start beating the egg whites with an electric mixer at medium speed. When the syrup reaches 250°F , lower the speed, pour the syrup in a thin stream into the egg whites, without letting it touch the beaters , and then increase the speed again.
Continue beating until the meringue cools completely , it should be clear and glossy . The Italian meringue is ready to be used in your dessert preparations .
To pasteurize whole eggs, pour water and sugar into a saucepan . Again, the sugar should dissolve and reach 250°F. When the syrup reaches 240°F, you can start beating the eggs with a whisk . As soon as the syrup reaches 250°F, remove it from the heat.
Pour it in a thin stream into the semi-whipped eggs and continue beating with the beaters until you get a frothy mixture . Work until it cools completely .
It is preferable to use the preparations as soon as they are ready. Alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator for a few hours.
To use pasteurized eggs in your preparations, you should subtract the amount of sugar used to pasteurize yolks, eggs, or egg whites from the recipe you are going to prepare. To pasteurize eggs without using sugar, you can pasteurize the eggs in a double boiler. Proceed as follows: beat the eggs, put them in a bowl, place this in a double boiler, and stir until reaching a temperature between 140°F and 150°F. Be careful not to exceed this temperature, otherwise, the eggs will cook!

