name:
Pork Loin a Beccafico
ingredients:
Pork loin: 1.8lbs(800 g)- sliced
Orange juice: ½
Honey: 2tsp- about
Bay leaves: to taste
Green Peperoncino: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 0.4cup(50 g)
Raisins: 2tbsp(25 g)
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(25 g)
Sugar: 1tbsp(15 g)
Anchovies in oil: 2
Parsley: to taste- to chop
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pork loin a beccafico is a reinterpretation of the famous Sicilian dish 'sarde a beccafico' in its Palermitan version. Flavorful, inviting, and succulent, this recipe is truly surprising for its combination of flavors. Pork loin is a tender and delicate meat that goes perfectly with the filling of breadcrumbs, raisins, and pine nuts flavored with orange. With the bay leaves placed to decorate and scent the baking dish during cooking, you will create truly delicious rolls. Also, prepare the original sarde a beccafico recipe or amaze your guests with a summer vegetarian variant with Eggplants Beccafico Style ... they will all be a hit!
If you are looking for more pork loin recipes , we recommend:
To prepare pork loin a beccafico, start with the filling: pour a drizzle of oil into a pan and add the breadcrumbs to toast them. Stir with a wooden spoon occasionally to prevent burning and cook for a few minutes until they are toasted and crispy. Then turn off the heat and let them cool slightly.
Soak the raisins in warm water to rehydrate them , then finely chop the bunch of parsley ; drain the anchovies from the preservation oil and chop them finely .
In a large bowl, pour the toasted and cooled breadcrumbs , the well-drained raisins , and the pine nuts .
Continue with the chopped parsley and anchovies , then add the sugar , salt, and pepper to taste, and mix the ingredients with a fork .
Now that the mixture is ready , you can take the meat: lightly pound the pork loin slices to make them even thinner and more tender ; cut them in half lengthwise and fill each strip with the mixture (set aside any leftover mixture).
Then roll up the meat to create the rolls ; grease the baking dish with a drizzle of oil and place the rolls side by side .
Once finished , place half a bay leaf between each roll. Then drizzle with a little oil and the orange juice ,
sprinkle with the remaining filling and drizzle with honey . Finally, season the pork loin rolls with chili powder to taste and bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for about 20 minutes. Once cooked, take the pork loin a beccafico rolls out of the oven and serve them hot or warm!
You can store pork loin a beccafico in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended.
Once cooked, you can choose to serve the pork loin a beccafico hot or, in the Sicilian way, after letting it rest for at least 30 minutes covered with a clean cloth to allow the flavors to meld even more!

