name:
How to make the soffritto
ingredients:
Celery: 3ribs
Carrots: 1
Onions: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Soffritto is a classic base in cooking and it is essential to know how to prepare it perfectly to add an extra flavor boost to your recipes! Celery, carrots, and onion are the three main ingredients: the rule usually requires a 1:1:1 ratio, but the proportion can vary depending on the desired outcome. The cutting of the vegetables is called brunoise , a very small dice (size ranges from 1 to 3 mm or 1/32 to 1/8 of an inch) that allows for even cooking. The secret, however, is not to hurry: the soffritto must stew gently to soften without taking on color. At this point, you can use it to make many traditional first and second courses, such as Risotto alla paesana , Florentine tripe , and veal stew , for example, or as a base for succulent sauces and condiments, from the typical Bolognese sauce to the innovative lentil ragu , or even a simple but delicious sausage sauce . So, ready, set... soffritto!
To make the soffritto, first prepare the vegetables. For the brunoise carrots: peel and trim the carrot , then divide it into two pieces of the same length and even out the sides to get a regular shape. Cut each piece into thin slices (the thickness should be between 1 mm and 3 mm or 1/32 to 1/8 of an inch) .
Stack the slices and cut them lengthwise to obtain sticks of the same thickness . Finally, cut the sticks into cubes, always between 1 mm and 3 mm (1/32 to 1/8 of an inch) . You will need 3.5 oz of brunoise carrots .
Proceed in the same way with the celery: trim the base and the leaves, then divide the stalk into 2-3 pieces of the same length and even out the sides. Cut each piece into thin slices of the same thickness as the carrots .
Cut the slices lengthwise to obtain sticks of the same thickness . Finally, cut the sticks into cubes . You will need 3.5 oz of brunoise celery .
For the onion, proceed as follows (you can wet the knife blade to avoid eye irritation): peel the onion and cut it in half, then remove the inner sprout . Place the two halves on the cutting board and make horizontal cuts, about three-quarters through the onion . Then do the same vertically, again without going all the way through .
At this point, slice the onion from top to bottom to get cubes , then chop them finely with a knife . You will need 3.5 oz of brunoise onion .
To cook the soffritto, heat a wide saucepan with medium-low sides, add the oil and warm it up. Add the celery, carrots , and onion .
Add salt immediately and stew the vegetables over medium-low heat for about 15 minutes, stirring often . The vegetables should not take on color but become translucent. The soffritto is ready to be used !
You can prepare a larger quantity of soffritto and freeze it raw by proceeding as follows: dry the diced vegetables well, then spread them out on a tray and place them in the freezer. Once frozen, transfer them to suitable bags. You can cook the soffritto directly from frozen.
The ingredients for the soffritto can vary depending on the recipe you need to make:
- you can replace the white onion with yellow onion, red onion, or shallot
- instead of oil, you can use butter
- you can deglaze with wine halfway through cooking.
It is not recommended to use a mixer to chop the vegetables because you would get cubes of different sizes that would cook unevenly.
Adding salt at the beginning of cooking helps release the liquids contained in the vegetables to stew them gently. If they tend to color too much, you can add a little water.
With the vegetable scraps, you can make an excellent vegetable broth !

