name:
Sarde in Saor
ingredients:
Sardines: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
White onions: 4.4lbs(1.5 kg)
White wine vinegar: 8tbsp(110 g)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(25 g)
Raisins: 1oz(25 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 2cups(150 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note ...plus a resting time of about 24 hours

instructions:
Sarde in saor are a typical appetizer of Venetian cuisine. It is a terrine of fried sardines immersed in "saor," a flavorful condiment based on onions cooked in vinegar with pine nuts and raisins. Saor, in addition to being a tasty marinade, is an effective preservation method. Sarde in saor were originally created out of the need to preserve fish on ships for an extended period, using this particular preparation to keep the fried fish delicious for several days. In fact, sarde in saor are even more delicious if enjoyed after at least 24 hours of resting. This traditional recipe was made for us by Francesco Munarini, chef of the Osteria Do Spade, a true Venetian institution where you can enjoy typical cicchetti served for aperitivo, perhaps along with an unmissable Spritz and other specialties of the region's cuisine such as Venetian-style liver or Venetian-style cod mousse .
If you love the bold flavors of this particular marinade, also try Anchovies in scapece !
To prepare sarde in saor, start by cleaning the fish: remove the head , make a lateral cut to gut them, then trim the edge with scissors and rinse under running water. The sardines should remain whole .
Place a pan full of peanut oil on the stove, meanwhile, flour the sardines and place them on a tray . When the oil reaches about 350°F, immerse a few sardines at a time .
Cook for a few minutes until golden , drain them on a tray lined with paper towels . Salt and let cool.
Peel and slice the onions . Heat the sunflower oil in a pan , add the onions .
Add the vinegar , raisins , pine nuts , and bay leaf.
Salt, pepper , cover with a lid , and cook for about 20 minutes until softened .
Now place a layer of saor in a baking dish , add a portion of the fried sardines , and cover with more saor. Continue until all ingredients are used, the last layer should be saor .
Cover with plastic wrap and let rest in the refrigerator . Serve with polenta the sarde in saor .
Sarde in saor can be stored in the fridge for 3-4 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Let the sarde in saor rest in the fridge for at least a day to intensify the flavors.

