name:
Potato Chips
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste- for frying

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
There are baked potatoes , French fries (both stick and in-between variations like the Calabrian Patate 'mpacchiuse ), and then there are potato chips: thin, fried, crispy, and flavorful potato slices. They are even better when homemade! These chips are perfect to serve with a cocktail or as a snack. You will delight your guests by serving them classic, irresistible potato chips made with your own hands! We’ll show you all the tricks to prepare them at home with a double fry (at two different temperatures) for an extra crispy result. If you love chips, also try:
If you are looking for more potato recipes, try:
To prepare potato chips, first wash the potatoes well, removing any dirt . Using a mandoline, slice them into 1/16-inch (2 mm) slices . Once you have sliced the first potato , transfer the slices to a bowl of cold water.
Repeat this process for the rest of the potatoes. The water will quickly become cloudy due to the starch in the potatoes, so change it at least three times before leaving the slices to soak for an hour . At this point, drain them and transfer them to a clean, dry dish towel . Spread them out evenly .
Pat them dry with kitchen paper . Dry them thoroughly to prevent the oil from 'exploding' and splattering when the potatoes are immersed. Heat the oil to 285°F (140°C). Immerse the potato slices in the hot oil, a few at a time . Cook them for a couple of minutes .
Remove them with a slotted spoon and transfer them to a tray lined with paper towels . Cook the rest in this manner, then increase the oil temperature to 355°F (180°C) and immerse the potato slices again .
Cook them for another 2 minutes until they are golden brown. Remove them with a slotted spoon and transfer them to a tray lined with paper towels . Continue cooking the rest in this manner. Salt and serve your chips immediately .
We recommend serving the chips immediately. They will remain crispy for up to an hour, after which they will begin to soften.
Once fried, season them with a mix of paprika, salt, and oregano for a more exotic touch!

