name:
Onion frittata
ingredients:
Eggs: 6- medium
Red onions: 0.9lb(400 g)
Marjoram: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Classic comfort food or tasty dinner saver? The onion frittata is both and more! Not only is it a typical home-cooked main course, ideal to prepare even when you have few ingredients in the fridge, but also a delightful idea for a picnic or a buffet. Excellent served both hot and at room temperature, it can be made with any type of onions: we chose red ones for their sweet and delicate taste. The important thing is that it remains soft and flavorful, like any frittata worth its salt... follow our recipe and you'll get a perfect onion frittata!
Also try these classic frittata recipes:
To prepare the onion frittata, first clean the onions and slice them about 0.39 inches thick . Place the onions in a non-stick pan with a 8-inch base where you have heated a drizzle of oil , season with salt, and cover with a lid: cook over medium-high heat for 7-8 minutes .
In the meantime, crack the eggs into a bowl, add salt , pepper, and marjoram leaves , then beat with a whisk until you get a homogeneous mixture .
When the onions are well cooked but still whole, pour the egg mixture into the pan , making sure all the onions are covered. Cover with the lid and cook over low heat for 6-8 minutes . After this time, the frittata will be quite cooked and firm , cover with a plate and flip the pan to turn the frittata.
Slide the frittata back into the pan and continue cooking for about 3-4 minutes, this time without the lid . Once perfectly cooked, the onion frittata is ready to be served !
The onion frittata can be stored in the refrigerator for up to a couple of days in an airtight container. Note that red onions will tend to lose color after cooking.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can replace the red onions with white or yellow ones.
Add 3.5 oz of grated Parmigiano Reggiano to the egg mixture for an extra flavor boost!
For the oven version, you can take inspiration from our oven-baked frittata recipe.
Crazy about onions? Don't miss a great classic of French cuisine, the soupe à l'oignon !

