name:
Onions in oil
ingredients:
Borrettane onions: 1.1lbs(500 g)
White wine vinegar: 2cups(500 g)
Water: 2cups(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Sage: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Ground black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Average
Note + time for sterilizing jars

instructions:
Onions, some love them and some hate them... if you are among the former, then you can't miss this delicious homemade preserve recipe, onions in oil! A classic oil-preserved recipe to pair with cold cuts and cheeses, also ideal for enriching a rice or pasta salad. But that's not all: onions in oil can also be used to make appetizing side dishes and main courses, such as Chicken with potatoes, mushrooms and onions ! However you decide to enjoy the onions in oil, the important thing is to choose borettane onions, a small, slightly flattened variety of onions perfect for this type of preparation.
Try these recipes with onions as well:
To make onions in oil, first sanitize the jars and lids following the guidelines provided by the Department of Health and Human Services. Proceed with the preparation of the onions: peel them and remove the first layer , then collect them in a bowl .
Pour the vinegar and water into a large pot and bring to a boil, then add the onions and boil for 12 minutes.
After this time, add the peppercorns , rosemary , and sage . Boil for another minute.
Drain the onions and herbs on a clean cloth and let cool . When dry, place the onions in the jar, alternating with the herbs, ensuring all empty spaces are filled . Finally, pour olive oil into the jar until all the onions are covered, leaving a space of about 3/4 inch from the top .
Close the jar with the lid, without tightening it too much so that air can escape and create a vacuum . Immerse the jar in a pot full of water and bring to a boil. Boil for 30 minutes from the boiling point, then turn off the heat and let cool in the water . Once cooled, check if a vacuum has been created by pressing the center of the lid. You will then have to monitor the jars, because if the oil level drops, you will need to reopen the jars, refill and boil again. Your onions in oil are ready to be stored!
If the vacuum and pasteurization have been done correctly, the onions in oil can be stored for up to a year and a half in a cool, dark place.
For optimal taste, it is recommended to wait at least 2-3 months before consumption.
Once opened, the jar can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 months, making sure the onions are covered by the oil.
If you want to add other spices, you can use thyme, fresh chili, bay leaves.
It is important to dry the onions well before jarring them.
After boiling, you can turn the jar upside down on a surface and let it cool to ensure any air bubbles escape.
Once ready, monitor the jar for half a day to check if the oil level drops (it may be partially absorbed by the onions): in this case, you need to add more oil and boil the jar again.
Looking for other preserve recipes for your appetizers? Try peppers in oil , pumpkin in oil or eggplants in oil !

