name:
Potato croquettes with a cheesy mozzarella and ham center
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Eggs: 1- (medium)
Nutmeg: to taste- to grate
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch
Mozzarella cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 4.6oz(130 g)- (8 slices)
Eggs: 3- (medium)
Breadcrumbs: 2 ½cups(250 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the time to cook the potatoes

instructions:
Potato croquettes with a cheesy mozzarella and ham center are crispy on the outside with a soft and savory filling. They can be served as appetizers or finger food for a warm appetizer. They are made with a potato puree enriched with eggs, grated cheese, and nutmeg, coated in a golden, crispy breading. These potato croquettes should be served immediately to enjoy the delicious surprise of the melted mozzarella center, enhanced by the savory and delicate prosciutto cotto. Both adults and children will surely love this delicious recipe: serve it, and it will be a party right away!
Also try other croquette recipes, fried or baked:
To prepare Potato croquettes with a cheesy mozzarella and ham center, boil the potatoes for about 40 minutes or until they are soft when pierced with a fork . Peel them and pass them through a potato masher to create a puree .
Add the egg, cheese, nutmeg, salt, and pepper . Mix to combine . Cut the well-drained mozzarella into sticks .
Place a mozzarella stick on a slice of prosciutto cotto , roll the slice . Take a tablespoon of the mixture .
Place the filling in the center , cover with more mixture , and shape it into a regular croquette .
Now dip the croquette first in the beaten egg and then in the breadcrumbs . As they are ready , place the croquettes on a tray.
Heat the peanut oil to 340°F, then immerse a few croquettes at a time and fry for about 3 minutes or until golden brown. Drain the croquettes on a tray lined with paper towels and serve the potato croquettes with a cheesy mozzarella and ham center hot .
We recommend consuming the potato croquettes with a cheesy mozzarella and ham center immediately. You can prepare the croquettes without breading in advance and store them in the fridge.
You can season the breadcrumbs with aromatic herbs or substitute it with panko.
You can also bake the croquettes in a static oven at 430°F for about 20 minutes.

