name:
Eggplant Zuccotto
ingredients:
Eggplant: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Coarse salt: 4 ¼tbsp(60 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 2cups(500 g)-
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: 10leaves-
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)-
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste-
Pecorino cheese: 1oz(30 g)- grated
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2tbsp(30 g)- grated
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Basil: 5leaves
Peanut seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + 2 hours to drain the eggplants and 2 hours of rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
The eggplant zuccotto is a very unique dish, definitely very beautiful to look at, inspired by the shape of the Zuccotto . It is known that eggplants are a pillar of Sicilian cuisine, and in this recipe, many Sicilian flavors are indeed present. Most of the ingredients are the same found in eggplant parmesan , but they are assembled differently, yet releasing the same aromas. The original presentation is largely due to the mold used to make the zuccotto, a concave mold generally made of aluminum used also for preparing many semi-frozen desserts. Serve your eggplant zuccotto as an appetizer, or as a side dish perhaps accompanying it with slices of toasted bread and you will amaze your guests with this truly spectacular summer dish!
To prepare the eggplant zuccotto, start with the preparation of the eggplants. Wash the eggplants well , trim them, and cut them into slices lengthwise , then cut them into fairly small cubes, about 3/4 inch .
Place the eggplant cubes in a colander in layers , alternating with handfuls of coarse salt . Then place a plate on top and then a weight for about 2 hours, so the eggplants release their water and lose the bitter taste.
At this point, start preparing the seasoning. In a large pan, brown the halved clove of garlic , then add the peeled tomatoes , season with salt and pepper, and let it cook for 30 minutes, covering with a lid and stirring occasionally.
Once the eggplants have lost their water , rinse them under running water to remove all the excess salt and dry them with a kitchen towel .
Then flour the eggplant cubes and sift them to remove the excess flour . Heat the oil until it reaches a temperature of 340°F, then fry the floured eggplants a little at a time, until they become golden . Drain them with a slotted spoon and place them on a plate covered with paper towels , to remove all the excess oil.
Continue this way until all the eggplants are done. In another pan, pour 1 1/2 tbsps of oil , add the bread crumbs and toast them, stirring continuously and being careful not to burn them .
At this point, remove the garlic from the sauce and add the basil . Pour the eggplants into a bowl and add the tomato sauce , then add both grated Parmigiano Reggiano and Pecorino cheese .
Add the breadcrumbs as well , mix everything and add a few more hand-torn basil leaves . Line a zuccotto mold with plastic wrap and pour in the mixture you just prepared .
Press lightly with a spatula to compact the mixture and cover with plastic wrap . Let it rest in the refrigerator for at least two hours, then unmold it and serve at room temperature .
Store the eggplant zuccotto in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for up to two days! Freezing is not recommended!
If you do not have or do not want to use a zuccotto mold, you can choose to prepare individual portions in muffin molds!

