name:
Andalusian Gazpacho
ingredients:
Stale bread: 2 ½cups(70 g)
Roma tomatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Green peppers: 3.5oz(100 g)
Red peppers: 3.5oz(100 g)
Cucumbers: 3.5oz(100 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Water: 1.7cups(400 g)- cold
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
White wine vinegar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Salt: to taste
Pepper: to taste
Red onions: 1.8oz(50 g)
Cucumbers: 1.4oz(40 g)
Roma tomatoes: 1.4oz(40 g)
Bread: 1.4oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the chilling time in the fridge (at least 2 hours)

instructions:
As soon as you say gazpacho, you immediately think of Spain! It is a traditional tomato soup enriched with cucumbers, peppers, garlic, and stale bread, characterized by the acidic note of vinegar. This typical cold summer dish originates from Andalusia and has peasant origins: laborers used to bring it to the scorching fields to consume it as a refreshing, tasty, and nutritious snack. A highly appreciated trait during the hottest season, so much so that it is often served in a glass with the addition of ice cubes to enjoy it while walking. The main advantage, however, is that it is prepared with raw vegetables using a simple blender... all you have to do then is wait for the resting time in the fridge to savor it at its best! Garnish the gazpacho with the ingredients you prefer and choose whether to offer it as an appetizer or tapa, perhaps together with a taste of tortilla de patatas !
Andalusian gazpacho boasts multiple variations, from traditional to creative ones... for example, try:
To prepare the Andalusian gazpacho, first cut the stale bread into pieces , transfer it to a bowl, and cover with 5.3 oz of water . Let it soak for a few minutes while you prepare the rest of the ingredients: wash and slice the tomatoes .
Do the same with the cucumbers without peeling them . Finally, clean the peppers and cut them into chunks, both the red and green ones .
Put the tomatoes in a blender, then add the peppers , cucumbers , and the garlic clove .
Also add the soaked and squeezed bread , then pour in the remaining 8.8 oz of cold water and the oil .
Finally, add the vinegar , salt , and pepper. Close the blender and blend for about 30 seconds .
When you have obtained a homogeneous mixture , transfer it to a fine mesh strainer placed over a bowl and press with a spatula to sieve it . This way, you will remove the skin residues and obtain a smooth and fluid consistency . Let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours, covered with plastic wrap.
After the resting time, prepare the garnish ingredients: dice the cucumber , tomato , and red onion .
Also cut the bread into cubes and toast it in a pan . Now take the gazpacho from the fridge and pour it into bowls .
Garnish with the vegetables and toasted bread cubes , then drizzle with a bit of oil and a grind of pepper. Your Andalusian gazpacho is ready to be enjoyed !
The Andalusian gazpacho can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, in an airtight container.
If you prefer a less acidic note, you can replace the white wine vinegar with rice vinegar.
You can toast the bread dry or flavor it with oil, garlic, and chili pepper!
Do you know the difference between Andalusian gazpacho and the salmorejo, typical of the city of Cordoba? The latter has a denser and creamier consistency because it is made with a larger quantity of bread, which also gives it a more delicate taste; the decoration traditionally includes eggs and jamon serrano!

