name:
Erbazzone or Scarpazzone
ingredients:
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Water: 0.8cup(200 g)- warm
Fine salt: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Chard: 2.2lbs(1.3 kg)
Fresh scallion: 3.5oz(100 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Smoked pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 7oz(200 g)- to be grated
Fine salt: 1.7tsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time of the dough

instructions:
The erbazzone or scarpazzone (in dialect scarpazoun) is a savory pie whose recipe is a typical gastronomic specialty of Reggio Emilia. It originated as a humble peasant dish, as it used simple garden herbs available at various times of the season, which were enriched with dough and flavored with lard and aromas. Traditionally, it was baked in a round copper mold called "al sol," in the bread oven, and the entire Reggiana community competed to make the best. In our recipe, we have made a filling with chard, green onions, Parmigiano Reggiano, and smoked bacon, all enclosed in a layer of dough. Try our version of this rustic and nutritious dish and you won't regret it!
Also try the recipe for gnocco fritto , another specialty of Emilian cuisine!
To prepare the erbazzone or scarpazzone, start with the dough: sift the flour into a bowl, then add the salt , the oil , and the lukewarm water ;
knead with your hands until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough. Form a ball , wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes.
In the meantime, take care of the filling: wash the chard under plenty of cold running water , dry them, and remove the stem ; clean the green onions ,
cut them into thin slices , then take the bacon and cut it into rather coarse cubes . In a non-stick pan, brown the oil with the peeled garlic clove; when the garlic is golden, add the green onions along with the cubed bacon . Sauté for 10 minutes,
add the chard , season with salt and pepper and cook for another 7-8 minutes covered with a lid . Remove the garlic clove ,
then remove the excess water and place the cooked chard in a large bowl, letting them cool. After the necessary time, take the dough out of the refrigerator, place it on a lightly floured work surface and with a dough scraper take 12.3 oz of dough : this will serve as the base. With the help of a rolling pin, roll out a sheet with a diameter of 14 inches and another of the same size but thinner with the remaining dough.
Place the sheet you have obtained with the help of the rolling pin on a greased 12 1/2 inch tart pan . When the filling is cold, add 5.3 oz of grated cheese and mix with a spatula to combine all the ingredients. Pour everything into the pan and level the surface.
Sprinkle with the remaining grated cheese and close your erbazzone with the thinner sheet you rolled out earlier . Finish the edges by pinching them with your fingers ,
then pierce the surface with the tines of a fork and brush with olive oil . Bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 30 minutes (or at 355°F for 20 minutes if in a convection oven). Once ready , remove from the oven and serve your erbazzone or scarpazzone.
You can store the erbazzone or scarpazzone in the refrigerator, once cooled, for up to 2 days covered with plastic wrap. You can freeze it either cooked or raw only if you have used fresh, not defrosted, ingredients.
You can also prepare your erbazzone with delicious spinach instead of chard!

