name:
Swordfish Pizzaiola
ingredients:
Swordfish: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 2cups(400 g)
Salted capers: 1tbsp(15 g)
Garlic: 3cloves
Black olives: 2oz(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Oregano: to taste- dry
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Swordfish pizzaiola is a fish dish that best enhances the flavor of swordfish, which is so versatile in the kitchen. Its tender meat lends itself to various types of cooking; it is excellent baked, in a pan, but also grilled or cooked in sauce, as in this recipe! The braised cooking of the steaks will result in a delicious and aromatic sauce, to savor with some toasted bread slices. Inspired by meat pizzaiola for the addition of olives and capers in the sauce flavored with the indispensable oregano, this recipe is a classic of southern homemade cooking, where swordfish is very common and a protagonist of countless typical dishes.
Come and discover other recipes with swordfish :
To prepare swordfish pizzaiola, desalt the capers by rinsing them well under running water. Cut the swordfish steak into slices about 1/2 inch thick . In a pan, pour in the garlic and the oil .
Add the desalted and drained capers . Let it flavor for a few minutes; meanwhile, crush the peeled tomatoes with a fork . Add the tomatoes to the pan .
Season with dried oregano , cover with a lid , and let cook for about 10-15 minutes on medium-high heat. After the indicated time, remove the garlic .
Lay the swordfish slices and also add the black olives . Adjust with salt and pepper. Cook on medium-high heat for about 5 minutes. Turn with a spatula or kitchen tongs and cook for another 5-6 minutes.
After the cooking time, adjust again with salt and pepper and serve the swordfish pizzaiola hot .
It is recommended to consume the swordfish pizzaiola immediately, but if you prefer, you can store it in a glass container with an airtight lid for up to 2 days in the refrigerator. If you have used fresh ingredients, you can freeze it all.
In summer, you can use fresh seasonal plum tomatoes for the sauce: just blanch them and peel them before adding them to the pan with the rest of the ingredients.

