name:
Greek Salad
ingredients:
Cluster tomatoes: 8.8oz(250 g)- about 2
Cherry tomatoes: 4
Feta cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Fresh scallion: 1
Red onions: 1
Cucumbers: 2
Black Greek olives: 8- Kalamata type
White wine vinegar: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Oregano: to taste- dry, wild
Caper leaves in brine: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low
Note + the marinating time for the olives (about 2 hours)

instructions:
Greek salad is so famous that it lends its name to many other dishes made with some of the key ingredients of this dish, such as Greek quinoa salad or Greek Omelette ! But what are these iconic elements? Generally, they are tomatoes, feta, olives (Greek, of course!), onions, and cucumbers. In reality, there is no codified recipe for Greek salad; it can vary depending on the local products available to each family in each village. We turned to the professional touch of Vasiliki Pierrakea, owner of "Vasiliki Kouzina," who has passionately brought the essence of Hellenic cuisine to Milan. Thanks to her experience and her family's culinary history, we will learn the secrets behind a very simple, yet rich, incredibly genuine salad, also ideal as a main dish. Fresh, light, and nutritious, Greek salad is a classic summer dish, perfect to enjoy by the sea... we paired it with Cretan dakos , similar to our friselle, for an even more authentic result!
Try these typical Greek recipes as well:
To make the Greek salad, start with the Kalamata olives: score each olive into 3 parts with the tip of a knife , then season with oil and a pinch of salt .
Add the vinegar and massage with your hands, then let marinate at room temperature for 2-3 hours; this will soften the flavor of the olives . In the meantime, cut the feta into cubes and prepare the rest of the ingredients.
Divide the cucumber lengthwise without peeling it , then remove the seeds and slice it .
Slice the vine tomatoes and quarter the cherry tomatoes . Clean and chop the red onion into pieces .
Finally, slice the white part of the scallion . You are ready to plate: arrange the cherry tomatoes in a circle at the bottom of the plate , then place the cucumbers in the middle .
Add some scallion and red onion , the vine tomatoes , then more scallion and onion .
Add some feta cubes and the olives , then finish by crumbling the remaining feta. Season with oil and pepper to taste .
Fragrance with oregano and garnish with a few caper leaves . Your Greek salad is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the Greek salad as soon as it is ready.
It is not necessary to add salt because the feta is already quite salty.
It is preferable to remove the seeds from the cucumbers; otherwise, the final result would be too watery. For the same reason, it is better not to use too many tomatoes!
The vegetables can be cut thinner or thicker, depending on your tastes.
The olives can be marinated for a longer time (if you have time!), otherwise, a couple of hours will be enough to soften their flavor.
The Greek name for this typical salad is horiatiki , which comes from horio (village): it is indeed a dish closely tied to the local products, such as oil and oregano, which can vary from village to village!

