name:
Caprese Bruschetta
ingredients:
Homemade bread: 4slices
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 10
Black olives: 12
Basil: 8leaves
Garlic: 1clove
Oregano: 2pinches
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Reusing leftover bread was a habit that dates back to when food was scarce on our tables and we always looked for ways to best preserve it or give it a second life. This is the case with Friselle and bread bruschetta. Caprese bruschetta is a typical Neapolitan delight, made with slices of toasted durum wheat bread, on which, after being rubbed with garlic, pieces of buffalo mozzarella, cherry tomatoes, basil, oregano, whole black olives (preferably from Gaeta), salt, and extra virgin olive oil are placed. In short, an even richer and tastier tomato bruschetta ! Caprese bruschetta is a completely Mediterranean delight that can serve as a substantial appetizer, but also as a fresh and quick second course.
Also discover these tasty bruschetta recipes:

To prepare Caprese bruschetta, cut 4 slices of bread about 0.8 inches thick , and toast them on both sides under the oven grill or on a non-stick pan . When they are golden brown, take each slice of toasted bread and rub a garlic clove over it (one should be enough for all 4 slices of bread).
Once you have prepared the slices of bread, set them aside and prepare the ingredients you will need to garnish the Caprese bruschetta. Drain the buffalo mozzarella well and cut it into not too large cubes ; also quarter the cherry tomatoes . In a bowl, pour the mozzarella, black olives, and quartered tomatoes .
Add the torn basil, oregano, extra virgin olive oil, and a pinch of salt (7-8). Mix well, to combine the flavors. Arrange the toasted bread slices on a serving plate and cover them with the mixture, divided equally among each slice . Drizzle the Caprese bruschetta with a little extra virgin olive oil and serve.
Caprese bruschetta is a typical summer dish, precisely because of the freshness of its ingredients; for the perfect outcome of this preparation, it is necessary to use very fresh ingredients and ripe, flavorful tomatoes. If you want to be sure of their taste, buy PGI Pachino tomatoes, synonymous with quality and great flavor.
It's advisable to eat Caprese bruschetta as soon as it's made.

