name:
Battered Onion Rings
ingredients:
Onions: 12.7oz(360 g)- (2 large round white onions)
Ice: to taste
Type 00 flour: 1 ⅔cup(200 g)
Beer: 9.7oz(275 g)- type pils
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1tsp
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus 15 min of resting

instructions:
Battered fried onion rings are one of the most loved appetizers in the USA, served in fast food restaurants and now in all pubs, along with the classic cheeseburger , or even together with or as a substitute for French fries ! Today we show you how easy it is to prepare onion rings with our recipe and how enjoyable it is to savor them with your friends for an aperitif at home! Soaking the rings in ice water will give a more delicate flavor and a firm texture, while the batter made with beer will create a crispy shell, and your onion rings will disappear quickly, one after another!
If you love onions , also try the recipe for crispy onion , a chip-style variant, and the indispensable caramelized Tropea onions , to enrich many sandwiches and more!
To prepare the onion rings, first clean the onions and cut them into 1/2 inch thick slices ; then, without breaking them, separate the rings . Transfer them to a bowl with ice water for 15 minutes. This step will help to mellow the taste of the onions and make the rings more crispy.
Meanwhile, prepare the batter. In a bowl, pour the flour, baking powder , salt , and paprika .
Add the beer and mix with a whisk until you get a smooth batter . Place in the refrigerator until ready to use.
After 15 minutes, drain the onion rings and dry them well with a cloth . Be careful with this operation because if they remain moist, the batter may fall off during cooking; moreover, the oil could splatter. At this point, heat the oil in a pan to a temperature of 340°F. Take the batter and, using tongs, dip the first ring. Let the excess batter drip off and immerse it in the hot oil .
Continue like this, dipping a few rings at a time . Cook them for about 3 minutes, turning them a couple of times, until they are golden brown. Drain them on kitchen paper . Continue in this way until they are all fried and serve them still hot .
We recommend consuming the fried onion rings immediately. The batter can be prepared a few hours in advance.
Serve the onion rings with your favorite sauce, such as mayonnaise or ketchup. Instead of white onions, you can also use yellow or red onions.
If you don't like paprika, you can omit it or replace it with a spice of your choice.

