name:
Pasta with Vegetable Ragù
ingredients:
Penne Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Tomato purée: 0.85cup(200 g)
Zucchini: 1 ½cup(160 g)
Yellow peppers: 5.3oz(150 g)
Peas: 1cup(150 g)
Carrots: 1 ½cup(190 g)
Celery: 5.6oz(160 g)
Red onions: 2.8oz(80 g)
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
With pasta with vegetable ragù you will bring a vegetarian and genuine pasta dish to the table! This variant of the traditional Bolognese ragù , perfect for spring and summer, is an excellent choice for vegetable lovers: in this case, we have chosen zucchini, carrots, bell peppers, and peas, a colorful and appetizing mix. To get the best flavor, it is recommended to use seasonal vegetables, but the real key to success lies in the uniform cutting of the vegetables, which ensures even cooking and the typical consistency of classic ragù. Serve the pasta with vegetable ragù freshly cooked for a dish that will win over everyone's palate!
Here are some other delicious vegetable-based sauces:
To prepare pasta with vegetable ragù, start by cleaning the red onion and then cutting it into pieces of about 1/4 inch . Do the same with the other vegetables. Peel and trim the carrots and cut them into cubes of the same size .
Peel to remove the more fibrous outer part , then cut it into 1/4 inch cubes . Now heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the onion and let it stew gently for 5 minutes or until tender.
When the onion is soft, add the celery and carrot and cook over moderate heat for about 5 minutes. Meanwhile, clean the bell pepper and cut it into 1/4 inch cubes . Wash and trim the zucchini .
Then cut these into cubes like the other vegetables . Add the bell peppers and zucchini to the pan . Salt and stir.
Pour in the tomato sauce and a splash of water, just enough to rinse the jug. Cover with a lid and continue cooking for about 15 minutes. Finally, add the peas and cook for another 5 minutes without the lid.
Once the ragù is ready, scent with hand-torn basil leaves . Meanwhile, cook the pasta in plenty of salted water , then drain it al dente into the pan with the ragù .
Adjust the salt and pepper and regulate the consistency of the sauce by adding a ladle of cooking water, if necessary . Finally, season with a drizzle of oil and stir. The pasta with vegetable ragù is ready , serve it hot !
Pasta with vegetable ragù can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
You can freeze the vegetable ragù after cooking.
You can vary this recipe according to the season, taking care to maintain at least a base of resistant and crunchy vegetables like celery and carrot, which will not fall apart much during cooking!
If you prefer a more intense color, you can strengthen it with a tablespoon of tomato paste.
For a spicy note, try adding curry to the vegetables while cooking!

