name:
Italian Potato Salad
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Basil: 0.4oz(10 g)- fresh
Parsley: 2tbsp(10 g)- fresh
Capers in vinegar: 1tbsp(15 g)
Anchovies: 0.7oz(20 g)- in oil
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
White wine vinegar: 0.6tbsp(8 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Oregano: to taste- dried

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes of resting time

instructions:
Italian potato salad is a recipe based on potatoes, a side dish with a delicate and very tasty flavor that everyone will surely love! This is a potato salad without mayonnaise, seasoned with a very flavorful sauce made from anchovies, parsley, capers, basil, and vinegar! These ingredients blend perfectly, and when seasoned this way, the potato salad is ideal to serve warm in winter to accompany meat or fish dishes and cold in summer, perhaps paired with a dish of cheeses and cold cuts.
Looking for a salad that is rich and abundant, to enjoy as a main dish? Try these tasty recipes:
To prepare the Italian potato salad, start with cooking the potatoes. Wash the potatoes and without peeling, place them in plenty of salted water . Boil them for about 30 minutes, then drain and let them cool slightly . Once warm but not cold, peel the potatoes and place them on a cutting board .
Cut the freshly peeled potatoes first into slices and then into not too small cubes . Then place them in a large bowl .
At this point, chop the parsley after washing it . Also chop the anchovies in oil and the capers in vinegar .
Take the bowl with the potatoes, add the chopped basil and olive oil , also add the previously chopped anchovies and capers .
Add the chopped parsley, a pinch of black pepper, and dried oregano . Finally, pour in the vinegar and mix everything with a spoon. Let your Italian potato salad marinate for at least 30 minutes before serving .
You can store your Italian potato salad for a maximum of 2-3 days in an airtight container in the refrigerator.
If you want to save some time, you can cook the potatoes in a pressure cooker for about 15 minutes. To enhance the flavor of your green potato salad even more, add a chopped garlic clove!

