name:
Arrosticini
ingredients:
Pecora cheese: 1.8lbs(800 g)- the pulp
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)-
Rosemary: 1sprig
Fine salt: 0.7tsp(4 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Arrosticini are a traditional dish from Abruzzo cuisine, appreciated both in Italy and abroad; they consist of skewers of about 10-12 inches of mutton (castrated or sheep), cut into small cubes of 1/2 inch per side, originating from the pastoral tradition of the region. The traditional cooking of arrosticini takes place on the "rustillire" (or furnacella), a particular small-sized brazier where the arrosticini can be turned and cooked without difficulty. Generally, grilling does not require additional seasonings, but some like to flavor the arrosticini with a sprig of rosemary dipped in oil and pepper, or occasionally sprinkle them with crushed chili pepper. In home preparation, not being able to use the brazier, which gives the arrosticini its characteristic flavor, you can marinate them briefly in oil and pepper, adding rosemary and lemon to taste. If you love these rustic flavors, also try the Lamb Stew , with a delicious sauce perfect for dipping bread!
To prepare the arrosticini, start by taking the meat. Using a sharp knife, remove the fattier parts of the meat . Then, cut the meat into strips and then into cubes of 1/2 inch thick .
Once you have the meat cubes, skewer them . Repeat the process for all the arrosticini . Now heat a cast iron grill well and lightly oil it so you can easily turn the arrosticini during cooking. Then place the arrosticini on the hot grill .
The cooking should take about 1 minute per side . Cook the arrosticini on both sides until you notice a slight crust. Salt and garnish the plate with your arrosticini with rosemary and cherry tomatoes. Your arrosticini are now ready to enjoy !
Arrosticini are a dish that should be consumed immediately. They can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for a maximum of 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
Be careful not to overcook the meat because, losing too many liquids, it would become rubbery. During the cooking of the arrosticini, do not keep the flame too high, as you risk burning them or making them too dry. The arrosticini meat must contain a fat percentage equal to 1/4 (25%) of its weight; this helps prevent it from becoming too dry and inevitably tough during cooking.

