name:
Pansoti
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Water: ⅔cup(150 g)- (at room temperature)
White wine: 2tbsp(30 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Fine salt: 1pinch
Swiss chard: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (Prebuggiun or mixed borage and beet greens)
Prescinseua cheese: 6.3oz(180 g)- (or cow's milk ricotta)
Eggs: 1- medium
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to grate)
Marjoram: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Walnuts: 3 ½cups(400 g)
Stale bread: 3 ½cups(200 g)- (only crumbs)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.6oz(75 g)- to grate
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)- (at room temperature)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes of dough resting time

instructions:
There are recipes that have a unique flavor not only for their goodness but for the story they tell. Like pansoti, fresh pasta treasures of Ligurian origin that date back to peasant culinary traditions. Chef Roberto Panizza prepared them in the kitchens of GialloZafferano, presenting them in their most traditional form, as tortello. Today this main course is also found in a triangle shape, easier to make. For the filling, we relied on his historical, gastronomic, and territorial knowledge. He selected for us a series of wild herbs, the classic prebuggiun (chard, borage, burnet, dandelion, nettle, lungwort, wild mustard) with which they are stuffed along with the prescinseua . If you're not from Genoa you might not understand but don't worry: you can still use chard and ricotta, the pansoti will still be delicious! To dress them? We recommend the classic combination: pansoti with walnut sauce... and enjoy your meal!
Don't miss these typical Ligurian recipes:
To prepare the walnut sauce, remove the crust from the stale bread and cut the crumbs into coarse pieces . Place them in a bowl, pour the milk . Work with your hands, squeezing, until the crumbs have absorbed the milk and you obtain a creamy but grainy mixture.
Keep the crumbs aside. Meanwhile, clean the garlic clove and remove the germ . Start crushing it in the mortar until it becomes a paste.
Shell the walnuts to obtain 7 oz of kernels, add them to the mortar and crush until you get a homogeneous mixture. Now you can add the crumbs and work again with the pestle. Then pour in the marjoram leaves and oil in a thin stream, adjusting as you work with the pestle .
Add the Parmigiano Reggiano PDO , continuing to crush . Finally, a pinch of salt, work again with the pestle: the final consistency should be creamy, not liquid and will be semi-grainy . Keep aside until ready to use.
Let's prepare the fresh pasta: on a work surface pour the flour, create a hole in the center then pour the eggs , a pinch of salt and start kneading by hand. You can also help yourself with a scraper .
When the eggs are absorbed, proceed by adding the white wine , knead for a few moments then proceed with the water, little by little in a thin stream while continuing to knead . Adjust if the whole proposed dose is needed, based on the flour's absorption capacity. Work for a few minutes, energetically, on the workbench .
Let the dough rest at room temperature, covered with a cloth or with an inverted bowl or with plastic wrap, for about half an hour. In the meantime, prepare the filling: traditionally a mix of wild herbs that changes from season to season would be used, the prebuggiun in Ligurian dialect. You can also use a mix of borage and chard. In any case, proceed to clean the herbs, cut off the tougher part of the stems , then boil for 3-4 minutes .
Drain them in ice water to keep their bright color . Drain well and squeeze them , then chop them finely with a knife .
In a bowl collect the chopped vegetables, the prescinseua (or cow's milk ricotta) , then the grated Parmigiano Reggiano PDO , add the egg as well .
Grate the nutmeg , flavor with fresh marjoram and a pinch of fine salt. Mix and set aside .
Take a piece of pasta, pass it through the roller of the pasta machine , gradually to obtain rather thin strips. From each strip make squares of 8-10 cm with the smooth pasta cutter . Stuff them in the center with a bit of filling, a teaspoon will be sufficient .
Make the pansoto this way: lightly brush the edges of the pasta to make them adhere better. Then close into a triangle , then fold the tip and join the two ends sealing well .
You should get a sort of tortello . Bring the water to a boil, salt to boiling and cook the pansoti for about 7 minutes . You can dilute the walnut sauce with cooking water .
Mix and once ready, you can drain them directly into the bowl with the condiment . On the serving plates you can decorate with a bit of fresh marjoram and your pansoti are ready to be enjoyed!
Fresh pasta once ready should be used immediately or at most after a few hours.
Raw pansoti can be frozen.
The walnut sauce keeps in the refrigerator for a couple of days, in a well-closed glass jar.
Fresh pasta, in Genoese tradition, is usually prepared with few eggs, you could also use just one with these proposed doses.
White wine gives the dough a particular aroma.
Herbs are chopped with a knife to keep their pleasantly bitter taste.
Prescinseua is a traditional Genoese curd, it can be replaced with cow's milk ricotta.
If you bought borage to make the pansoti filling, use it also to make a delicious borage risotto with squid !

