name:
Eggplant Balls in Tomato Sauce
ingredients:
Eggplant: 14.1oz(400 g)
Breadcrumbs: 2 ½cups(70 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Tomato purée: 2.1cups(500 g)
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Eggplant balls are an irresistible treat to enjoy when they are in season. If the idea of frying, however, does not excite you, here is an excellent alternative: eggplant meatballs in tomato sauce! These soft bites are browned in a pan and then plunged into a simple tomato sauce that you will have cooked separately. You will thus obtain a tasty main course based on vegetables that will not make anyone miss the classic meatballs in tomato sauce ! You can serve the eggplant meatballs with sauce alone, accompanied by a slice of bread, or use them as a condiment for pasta to make, for example, spaghetti with vegetarian balls .
If you liked this recipe, don't miss the ricotta meatballs , equally saucy and genuine!
To make the eggplant balls in tomato sauce, start with the tomato sauce: in a small pot, heat the oil with a clove of garlic in its skin, then pour in the tomato puree and enough water to rinse the jar, then add salt . Stir and cook covered on low heat for 30-40 minutes .
In the meantime, prepare the eggplants: first cut them into slices , then into sticks , and finally into cubes .
In a non-stick pan, sauté a crushed garlic clove with a drizzle of oil, then add the eggplants and salt. Brown the eggplants over high heat for about 10 minutes, stirring often . When they are soft and colored, transfer the eggplants to a bowl and let them cool. Once cooled, add the breadcrumbs .
Also add the grated Grana Padano PDO and chopped parsley , then season with salt and pepper. Mix with your hands to get a soft and compact mixture .
Form balls about the size of a walnut; with these quantities, you will get about twenty . To help, you can wet your hands. Heat another drizzle of oil in the same pan where you cooked the eggplants, then place the balls and brown them for about 5 minutes, shaking the pan to turn them on all sides .
When they are evenly golden, add the tomato sauce and briefly toss everything to combine the meatballs with the sauce . Garnish with basil leaves and serve your eggplant balls in tomato sauce !
Eggplant balls in tomato sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze them either raw or cooked. If you freeze the cooked meatballs with the sauce, we recommend gratinating them in the oven with a sprinkle of cheese, otherwise, they will lose consistency.
You can flavor the eggplant balls with cumin, mustard, and lemon zest, or you can add a pinch of chili pepper!
For a softer texture, you can replace the breadcrumbs with blended stale bread.

