name:
Quick Homemade Limoncello
ingredients:
Lemons: 10- unwaxed
Pure alcohol: 33.8oz(1 l)- at 96°
Water: 4 ¼cups(1.2 l)
Sugar: 4cups(800 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Average
Note + resting times (1 day + 10 days)

instructions:
Our quick homemade limoncello is a burst of flavor that is prepared in just one day! Unlike the classic limoncello , which requires a long waiting time, in this recipe the lemon peels macerate in alcohol for only one day! Of course, you will have to wait at least ten days before tasting it, so you will taste more of the lemon flavor and less of the alcohol note. Once ready, store it in the fridge or freezer and serve it very cold... there are many occasions to enjoy it, and we love to drink it after a summer dinner with fish! It will be an excellent alternative for a digestif, instead of the classic bitter. Choose excellent lemons, those with thick peels are the best, and make sure they have a good fragrance before starting the preparation of the quick limoncello! Here are other homemade liquors not to be missed:
To prepare our quick homemade limoncello, wash the lemons well using a brush . Peel the zest with a vegetable peeler, scraping only the yellow part and not the white part, which would be bitter. Transfer the peels to a bowl and cover with the alcohol .
Choose an appropriate bowl, so that the peels are completely covered by the alcohol . Cover with plastic wrap and let macerate in the dark for at least 1 day, if you are not in a hurry, even 3 days. After this time, prepare the syrup. In a saucepan, pour the water and the sugar .
Stir until the sugar is completely dissolved . At this point, turn off the heat and let it cool completely. Then take back the peels that have finished macerating .
Drain them to collect the alcohol in a large bowl and add the syrup to the same bowl . Mix well .
Cover with plastic wrap , or alternatively transfer the limoncello to a container with an airtight lid . Close well and let it rest in a cool, dark place for 10 days. After this time, you can store the quick limoncello in the fridge or freezer and enjoy it cold!
Quick limoncello keeps well in a cool, dry place, in the refrigerator, or even in the freezer; the presence of alcohol and sugar will prevent it from freezing. If you notice any type of alteration of the product, it is not recommended to consume it.
To make the flavor of the limoncello more special, you can also add the peels of other citrus fruits, such as oranges and mandarins, or even citron for example! With the peeled lemons, you can prepare a delicious lemon marmalade without peel .

