name:
Sicilian Stuffed Tomatoes
ingredients:
Cluster tomatoes: 6
Caciocavallo cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- (to grate)
Breadcrumbs: 1 ½cup(80 g)- coarse
Primosale cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)
Salted capers: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Anchovies: 0.7oz(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Stuffed tomatoes are a delight for the eyes and palate: they are baked, it’s true, but they are indispensable in summer... today we introduce you to an island variant, the Sicilian stuffed tomatoes! A concentration of Mediterranean flavors: the filling made from tomato pulp, breadcrumbs, caciocavallo cheese, and Homemade Primosale (or preferably Tuma if you can find it) is enriched with capers, anchovies, and parsley, with the unmistakable aroma of dried oregano. This dish is typically served as an appetizer and is prepared in different ways according to taste and family tradition. Sicilian stuffed tomatoes are also perfect as a main course , side dish , or even as a single dish. Additionally, Sicilian stuffed tomatoes are very simple to prepare, and for this reason, we are sure you will appreciate them even more!
Try these variants of stuffed tomatoes:
To prepare Sicilian stuffed tomatoes, take 6 cluster tomatoes, wash and dry them . Cut off the tops and set them aside, then scoop out the insides of the tomatoes using a spoon .
Pour the pulp into a bowl and set aside . After emptying them, lightly salt the insides of the tomatoes and place them upside down on a rack, along with the tops . Let the tomatoes drain while you continue with the recipe.
Chop the anchovies and the capers that you have previously desalted . Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, then add the tomato pulp .
Add the capers , the anchovies , and the grated garlic , although if you prefer, you can use the whole clove and remove it later.
Cook over medium heat for 10 minutes, mashing the tomato pulp with a wooden spoon . After this time , transfer the mixture to a bowl and let it cool. Meanwhile, cut the primo sale cheese into cubes .
When the mixture has returned to room temperature, add the breadcrumbs , the grated caciocavallo cheese , and the primo sale cheese cubes .
Also add the chopped parsley and mix well . At this point, take the drained tomatoes and place them in a baking dish lined with parchment paper, then fill them with the mixture . Also place the tops in the baking dish.
Finish with a bit of dried oregano and a drizzle of oil . Bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 25 minutes, then continue cooking for another 5 minutes in fan mode or until golden brown . Your Sicilian stuffed tomatoes are ready to be served, hot or at room temperature!
Sicilian stuffed tomatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
If you wish, you can add a pinch of chili pepper to the filling!
Instead of primo sale cheese, you can use Tuma: this term usually refers to a fresh, unsalted cheese made from cow's or sheep's milk or a mix of the two. Being fresh, it is recommended to consume it within 2 weeks of production.

