name:
Chicken in Sweet and Sour Sauce
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.4lbs(650 g)
Red peppers: 12.3oz(350 g)
Pineapple: 1cup(230 g)- (already cleaned)
Chives: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
White wine vinegar: ⅔cup(150 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Tomato paste: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Potato starch: 0.4oz(10 g)
Water: 2tsp
Water: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
On the menu of your favorite Chinese restaurant, next to the inevitable Sweet and Sour Pork , there will certainly also be chicken in sweet and sour sauce! A typical main dish consisting of pieces of meat coated in batter that are first fried and then sautéed with bell pepper and pineapple cubes... an unusual combination of ingredients that pairs perfectly with the intense and slightly tangy taste of sweet and sour sauce . Test your skills with a wok and chopsticks to serve a homemade chicken in sweet and sour sauce... you'll be amazed by the result!
Don't miss these tasty chicken recipes from Chinese cuisine as well:
To prepare chicken in sweet and sour sauce, first get the ingredients ready: clean the chicken breast from cartilage and small bones , then cut it into cubes of about 1 inch . Clean the bell pepper and cut it into pieces of the same size .
Finally, remove the base and the crown of the pineapple , then cut it into slices, remove the skin , and cut 8 oz of pulp into cubes, again about 1 inch in size .
Move on to the batter: put the flour in a bowl and add the salt , then pour the water in a stream while stirring with a whisk until you get a smooth and lump-free mixture .
Set the batter aside and prepare the sweet and sour sauce: in a saucepan, pour the sugar along with the water and white wine vinegar , then turn on the heat to medium-high and dissolve the sugar. Now add the tomato paste , mix with the whisk, and cook for a few minutes.
Meanwhile, in a separate small bowl, mix the potato starch with 2 teaspoons of water . Gradually add the mixture to the sauce while stirring . Let it thicken over the heat for a few moments, then set aside .
You are ready to fry: heat the oil to a temperature of 340°F, then coat the chicken pieces with the batter, letting the excess drip off . Dip a few pieces at a time into the hot oil and fry for 3-4 minutes. Once golden, drain the pieces on paper towels and set aside .
After frying the chicken, heat a wok well, then add the oil, bell peppers , and pineapple . Sauté over high heat for 8-9 minutes. Add the fried chicken pieces and toss everything for a couple of minutes.
At this point, pour the sweet and sour sauce into the pan and mix by tossing briefly. Turn off the heat and season with chopped chives , and your sweet and sour chicken is ready to be served !
Sweet and sour chicken can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
If you wish, you can add fresh chili for a spicy touch or a dash of soy sauce to further enhance the dish's flavor!
Also, try the recipe for deviled chicken with sweet and sour sauce, a tempting oven-baked variant!

