name:
Seafood Gnocchi
ingredients:
Potato gnocchi pasta: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Shrimps: 16
Calamari (squid): 0.6lb(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
White wine: ½glass
Tomato paste: 2spoonfuls
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Among the dish of seafood , seafood spaghetti definitely holds a place of honor. Today we tempt you with a variation on the theme: seafood gnocchi! Soft potato gnocchi combined with mussels, clams, shrimp, and squid, with the addition of a bit of tomato paste to give a touch of color, creaminess, and extra flavor! A celebration of sea delicacies for a perfect dish for Sunday lunch or to tempt your guests with a finger-licking dinner! You'll discover a new way to enjoy gnocchi usually paired with classic land-based sauces like Sorrento gnocchi or four cheese gnocchi !
Discover other seafood or rock recipes:
Discover more delicious Gnocchi recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the seafood gnocchi, you can start with the cleaning of mussels and How to clean clams . Then in a very large pot or pan, pour the oil, the whole garlic clove, and the mussels . Also add the clams and let them open by covering with a lid , occasionally shaking the pan. It will take just a few minutes.
Once opened , you can drain them and pour the filtered liquid into a pot adding enough water to then boil the gnocchi . Proceed to shell the mussels and clams (you can keep some whole to decorate the dishes). Then take the squid already cleaned and skinned, detach the head and keep the tentacles .
Remove the eyes and cut the mantle into rings , then cut the tentacles into pieces. Move on to the shrimp: remove the heads , shells , and intestines.
Pour a drizzle of oil into the same pan as before, add the squid and sauté for a few moments, salting and stirring with a wooden spoon; they just need to be sealed. Then add the shrimp and sauté for a few more moments, before deglazing with white wine .
Once the alcohol has evaporated, you can add the tomato paste , dilute with cooking water, then stir and you're ready to boil the gnocchi (for the time indicated on the package) .
In the last moments of cooking, add the mussels and clams to the squid and shrimp sauce, turn off the heat and drain the gnocchi directly into the pan , season with pepper to taste and fresh basil leaves and dress with a drizzle of raw oil. The seafood gnocchi are ready to be served!
It is recommended to consume the seafood gnocchi immediately. They can be stored in the fridge for 1 day in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
You can season it with parsley instead of basil. You can use a peeled tomato or two instead of the tomato paste, although the result will be different. Alternatively, you can proceed without tomatoes!

