name:
Zucchini Flatbread
ingredients:
Zucchini: 1lb(450 g)
Potato starch: 0.8cup(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Eggs: 1
Fine salt: 1tsp
Black pepper: 1tsp
Fontina cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Thyme: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Zucchini are available all year round, but with the arrival of the beautiful season, we can finally savor them at their best with this zucchini flatbread recipe! We've already enjoyed making them the star of appetizing vegetarian appetizers, like Zucchini caviar with gorgonzola cream for example. Today we propose a slightly more rustic-looking appetizer with a decidedly captivating flavor! Because baked zucchini are delicious, but in this easy and quick recipe, they become a delicacy! Once baked, you can cut the zucchini flatbread into squares and offer it to your friends, perhaps alongside Easy and Quick Potato Flatbread or the classic version of the Tuscan flatbread , so they can easily serve themselves with their hands while sipping a fresh drink. We bet even the kids will love it! If you like this idea, also discover other delicious recipes to use zucchini in the kitchen:
To prepare the zucchini flatbread, wash and trim the zucchini, then grate them with a large-hole grater and collect in a bowl. Add the cornstarch and the Parmigiano Reggiano cheese .
One egg , salt, and pepper . Mix to combine .
Place a sheet of parchment paper on a 12x16 inch low baking tray, pour a drizzle of oil and brush it to distribute it evenly over the entire surface . Pour the mixture .
Spread it with a spatula evenly , then bake in a preheated oven at 350°F for 15 minutes. Meanwhile, grate the fontina cheese using the large-hole grater .
Remove the flatbread from the oven , distribute the grated fontina cheese on top and a drizzle of oil .
Add pepper and bake again at 350°F for another 10 minutes, then broil for an additional 2 minutes for a perfect golden crust. Remove from the oven, season with aromatic herbs and serve the zucchini flatbread hot .
You can store the zucchini flatbread in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can use all-purpose flour instead of cornstarch. For a stronger flavor, you can replace the Parmigiano Reggiano with Pecorino cheese.

