name:
Mozzarella and Ham in Carrozza
ingredients:
Sandwich bread: 8slices
Prosciutto cotto: 2.8oz(80 g)
Pizza mozzarella cheese: 5oz(140 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Eggs: 3
Fine salt: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 1 ¾cup(140 g)- mix of fine and coarse
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Looking for delicious street food? Mozzarella and ham in carrozza is the tasty recipe you’ve been waiting for! Gooey like the traditional mozzarella in carrozza from Campania, but with an even more flavorful touch from the cooked ham, making this fried appetizer more appealing and tasty. Few ingredients, but especially just a few simple rules to follow to achieve perfect results: crispy and golden on the outside and soft and gooey on the inside. Follow our recipe to make an irresistible fried treat, also to try in its lighter version with the oven-baked mozzarella in carrozza recipe!
Here are other recipes with mozzarella to make at home:
To prepare mozzarella and ham in carrozza, cut the mozzarella into thin slices . In a plate, break 3 eggs, season with salt and pepper , and beat them with a fork .
Cut out 8 square slices of bread approximately 4.72 inches , if you find pre-sliced bread even better. Fill each slice with mozzarella and cooked ham .
Close with another slice of bread and gently flatten the edges. Now pass first in flour , then seal well all the edges in the egg .
Then cover the entire bread with the egg . Finally, bread in the breadcrumbs mix . You will obtain 4 pieces with these quantities.
Heat the oil to a temperature of 320°F and gently immerse one piece at a time . After about 3 minutes, turn the mozzarellas in carrozza and let them brown well for another minute . Drain them on paper towels . Serve the mozzarellas and ham in carrozza immediately!
We recommend consuming the mozzarellas and ham in carrozza immediately. You can store them in the fridge for a few hours before frying.
Make sure to properly coat the edges with eggs and then breadcrumbs to seal the mozzarellas in carrozza well. This way, you will prevent the gooey mozzarella from leaking out. Alternatively, you can use buffalo mozzarella or fior di latte; in this case, you must drain the cheese thoroughly until it has released all its whey.
The flour in the breading serves as a binder for the egg and breadcrumbs. It is essential to drain the bread slices well from the egg to avoid lumps when passing them in the breadcrumbs. For the same reason, it’s important to have clean hands during the breading process.

