name:
Octopus Genovese
ingredients:
Rigatoni: 11.3oz(320 g)
Octopus: 1.8lbs(800 g)- already cleaned
Yellow onions: 3.3lbs(1.5 kg)
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1- medium
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: 0.8cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Pecorino toscano cheese: to taste- aged (to grate)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 3 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
We love experimenting and today we tried a truly tasty and delicious pasta dish, the octopus Genovese! We started with a sauce that needs no introduction: the Genovese , a typical Neapolitan preparation. You've surely tasted it in the city of the sun and Vesuvius, either with pasta, usually macaroni or sedanini, but also in Rome as a side of one of the most famous street foods of the Capital. In this recipe, however, we propose substituting the classic beef with octopus... golden onions, which give the dish its unmistakable character, are always essential, even in this seafood variant. Rigatoni with octopus Genovese: once tried, it will become one of your favorite recipes!
Also try these first courses with octopus:
To prepare rigatoni with octopus Genovese, start by peeling the golden onions , then cut them into thin slices . Next, trim, peel, and chop the carrot .
Peel the celery stalk and chop it . In a saucepan, heat a generous splash of oil with a whole peeled garlic clove. Then add the chopped celery and carrot . Let them sauté for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. After removing the beak, chop the already eviscerated octopus into 0.79-inch pieces .
Add the octopus to the saucepan and remove the garlic . The octopus will release its own water, so increase the heat to medium-high and deglaze with white wine . Let the alcohol evaporate: this will take a few moments.
Now lower the heat, add the onions , stir , and cook covered over low heat for about 2 and a half to 3 hours .
Stir occasionally and check that the sauce does not stick to the bottom of the pot . When about 10 minutes are left, you can boil the pasta until al dente in a pot of salted boiling water . Then drain it directly into the sauce .
Stir to combine . Serve on plates and, if you like, garnish with grated Pecorino cheese to taste . The octopus Genovese is ready to be enjoyed .
It is recommended to consume rigatoni with octopus Genovese immediately. It can be stored in the refrigerator for a day in an airtight container.
If you used fresh octopus, you can freeze the sauce once cooked and cooled.
You can add bay leaves for flavor if you prefer.
You can omit the Pecorino or replace it with Parmigiano Reggiano cheese.

