name:
Linguine with Mussels and Zucchini Flowers
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Zucchini flowers: 3.5oz(100 g)
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- to clean
White wine: 3.4oz(100 g)
Parsley: 2sprigs
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Linguine with mussels and zucchini blossoms is a main course that will take the podium of summer recipes! You only need two ingredients and a few culinary tricks to bring a tasty pasta dish to the table. The secret lies in making linguine with mussels by making the most of this ingredient: their cooking water will become a flavorful base to finish cooking the pasta, giving an intense flavor to the dish. To complete the dish, a handful of zucchini blossoms , sun rays from the garden, will add a touch of color to this inviting recipe!
Also try these recipes that combine mussels and zucchini blossoms:
To prepare linguine with mussels and zucchini blossoms, start by cleaning the mussels . Remove the external impurities with a knife and place them in a bowl of water. Once done, rinse them thoroughly .
Separate the parsley stems from the leaves and chop the leaves . In a large pot, pour the oil, parsley stems, and garlic , and let it simmer for 1-2 minutes.
Add the mussels and deglaze with white wine . Cover with a lid and cook over medium-high heat for 3-4 minutes. Shake the pot occasionally.
Once opened, drain the mussels and set aside the liquid. Shell the mussels, leaving some whole.
Set aside the mussels and filter the liquid with kitchen paper, collecting it in a large pan . Clean the zucchini blossoms by removing the central pistil .
Keep only the petals and cut them into strips . Meanwhile, boil the linguine in salted water for 4 minutes .
Heat the mussel liquid and add the linguine , season with salt and pepper, and continue cooking the pasta. Near the end of cooking, add the zucchini blossoms and both whole and shelled mussels .
Season with chopped parsley , pepper, and a drizzle of olive oil. Mix well and serve the linguine with mussels and zucchini blossoms hot .
We recommend consuming the linguine with mussels and zucchini blossoms immediately.
Zucchini blossoms are very delicate, so we recommend not cleaning them in advance to avoid damaging them. If the mussel water is not enough to finish cooking the linguine, you can extend it with pasta cooking water.

