name:
Paprika Chicken
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (thinly sliced, 1/3 inch thick)
Fine salt: 1tsp
Black pepper: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Hot Paprika: 2spoonfuls
White onions: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Whole milk: 0.4cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 2spoonfuls
Chives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Were you looking for a super tasty chicken recipe? Then you are ready for our paprika chicken! Thanks to the fragrant and slightly spicy marinade made with paprika , a spice obtained from peppers, the chicken will absorb all the flavors and aromas and, thanks also to the stewed onions, it will be super tasty! We are sure you have never eaten chicken breast this good! We want to show you the secrets to achieving very tender meat and a creamy sauce that no one will be able to resist! Prepare this dish and delight all your guests with our easy and quick recipe! Also try our oven-baked paprika chicken legs !
More super tasty chicken recipes? Here are some good ideas:
Discover more delicious Chicken recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the paprika chicken, first arrange the chicken slices in a baking dish. Add the salt , paprika , and black pepper .
Add the oil and massage the slices with your hands to season them . Peel the onion and slice it thinly .
Melt half of the butter (1 tbsp) in a non-stick pan , add the onions , and let them stew for about ten minutes until they are soft . You can add a little water if needed.
Set the onions aside in a bowl and melt the remaining butter in the same pan. Place the chicken slices inside and let them brown .
Cook for about 5 minutes, then turn the slices over . Add the onions, spreading them over the chicken , and add the flour .
Pour in the milk , stir , and cover with a lid . Let it cook for another 4-5 minutes.
In the meantime, chop the chives , and as soon as the chicken is cooked and the sauce is well thickened, add them to the pan . Serve your paprika chicken immediately .
You can store the chicken in the refrigerator for up to 1 day.
If you prefer a milder flavor, use sweet paprika.

