name:
Sicilian-style Rolls
ingredients:
Sliced veal: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (24 slices)
Bay leaves: 32leaves
Red onions: 1
Caciocavallo cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Bread: 5.3oz(150 g)- (crumb)
Pine nuts: 1.8oz(50 g)
Zante Currant: ¼cup(50 g)
Yellow onions: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.4tbsp(50 g)
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Among the Sicilian recipes , rolls hold a special place. They are a meat dish that has many variations and versions across the Island. We offer you the Palermo-style Sicilian rolls; in the Messina area, they are simpler and called 'braciole', for example. Even from family to family, traditions change: some use beef, others veal; some bake them, others use a cast-iron grill or a pan. The filling we chose to make is one of the most classic: slightly toasted bread crumbs, onion, pine nuts, currants, and caciocavallo cheese. A mix of typical and tasty ingredients that will make these rolls special. Discover how to close them properly before breading and cooking: they will be delicious!
If you also love Sicilian cuisine, discover other traditional dishes:
To prepare the Sicilian rolls, first, take the bread crumbs (from not too dry but not too fresh bread) and break them into pieces , making it easier to put them in the mixer . Blend briefly to obtain coarse crumbs .
Transfer the crumbs to a slightly heated pan, without adding oil , and toast over medium heat for 5-7 minutes ; they should color slightly. In the meantime, peel the golden onion and finely chop it .
In the same pan where you toasted the crumbs, pour a drizzle of oil and the chopped onion . Season with salt and let the onion stew over medium-low heat for about 10 minutes . If necessary, you can add a little water just to prevent it from burning; it should indeed soften and turn golden.
Meanwhile, peel the red onion, cut it into quarters , and separate the layers . Collect them in a small bowl and set them aside. Together with the bay leaves, they will be used to assemble the skewers.
Grate the caciocavallo cheese and add it to the toasted bread crumbs . Add the pine nuts and currants (they do not need to be soaked) .
Add the chopped parsley , the now cooled onions , oil, salt, pepper, and mix .
If the slices are thick, pound them to obtain a thickness of 1/16 inch . If they are too large, cut them in half , otherwise, use them whole. Place a generous tablespoon of the filling on each slice .
Start rolling the meat gradually bringing the sides inward , to obtain a well-closed roll . Once rolled, carefully tuck in the ends to prevent the filling from escaping.
Take wooden skewers and assemble the skewers. Insert a bay leaf, a piece of onion , and the first meat roll . Continue this way for a total of 3 rolls, ending with onion and bay leaf .
Assemble all 8 skewers, brush them with oil on both sides , and coat them in bread crumbs to cover them . Place the skewers in a hot non-stick pan with a drizzle of oil .
Cook them until they are nicely golden, turning them on all sides ; they should cook for a total of about 10 minutes. The Sicilian rolls are ready; serve them hot .
You can store the rolls in the refrigerator for up to a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of currants, you can also use raisins, perhaps soaking them first. Currants have a more delicate taste and a softer texture than traditional raisins. You can use a more or less aged caciocavallo according to your taste.
Don't miss these other typical regional rolls: Apulian Bombette and Little escaped birds !

