name:
Mustard Chicken Breasts with Herbs
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.9lbs(850 g)- (2 whole)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Dijon mustard: 1spoonful
Old-fashioned mustard: 1spoonful
Wildflower honey: 1spoonful
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Parsley: to taste- to chop
Lemon peel: to taste- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
How many ways are there to cook chicken breast? This cut of meat, easy to prepare and especially budget-friendly, lends itself to many different recipes. After chicken breasts in milk , with a simple and delicate flavor, today we propose mustard chicken breasts, for lovers of bolder flavors! A tasty main course characterized by a smooth and velvety sauce that envelops the meat slices, keeping them soft and juicy: a great trick to get a creamy chicken breast that is not dry at all!
After the mustard chicken breasts recipe, try these tasty variations:
To prepare mustard chicken breasts, first cut the whole chicken breasts in half to get 4 portions , then remove any cartilage and small bones . Season the 4 chicken breasts obtained with oil .
Add salt and pepper, then massage the meat with your hands to season it evenly . Heat a non-stick pan well and place the chicken breasts inside .
Cook over medium heat for about 5 minutes on each side, turning the chicken breasts with kitchen tongs . When they are nicely golden all over , transfer the chicken breasts to a plate and keep them covered.
Meanwhile, pour Dijon mustard, whole-grain mustard , and honey into a small bowl, then mix everything together .
Melt the butter over low heat in the same pan where you cooked the chicken , then add the flour and quickly mix with a whisk .
Pour in the milk all at once , then add the mustard mixture and stir again .
At this point, place the chicken breasts in the pan with the sauce , cover with a lid , and let cook for another 3-4 minutes without touching them, always on low heat. The cooking time may vary depending on the thickness of the meat. Make sure they are obviously well cooked before stopping the cooking. After this time, turn off the heat and flavor with chopped parsley .
Add also the grated lemon zest and a grind of pepper , and your mustard chicken breasts are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the mustard chicken breasts immediately.
If necessary, they can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
You can use the type of mustard you prefer for the sauce, depending on whether you prefer a stronger or milder flavor!

