name:
Eggless Handmade Tagliatelle
ingredients:
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 2lbs(460 g)
Water: 1.3cups(300 g)
Fine salt: 1.3tsp(8 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + the resting time of the dough (30 min.) and the sheets (20 min.)

instructions:
There is no pasta shape that better envelops the sauce than the typical tagliatelle ! Tradition has it that they are made with fresh egg pasta , but we will explain how to prepare a lighter variant: eggless tagliatelle. Only water, salt, and semolina, which will give the dough a rather rough texture, to which you add some elbow grease and practice to knead and create the typical nests... and if they are not perfect, it doesn't matter, homemade pasta doesn't have to be beautiful, it just has to be good! Eggless tagliatelle are excellent for dressing with the classic Bolognese ragù, but they also perfectly adapt to tasty alternatives such as lentil ragù or Seitan ragout for a delicious vegan first course.
Also, discover these eggless recipes:
To make eggless tagliatelle, pour the semolina into a large bowl , then add the salt and the water gradually, starting to mix with your hand .
Continue mixing in the bowl with a spoon or with your hands. Transfer the mixture to the work surface sprinkled with some semolina and continue kneading for at least 5 minutes, being careful not to tear the gluten mesh . When you have obtained a smooth and homogeneous dough , cover it with the bowl or wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest for at least 30 minutes.
After this time, divide the dough in half . Take one portion and cover the other with plastic wrap to prevent it from drying out. Sprinkle the surface with some semolina and flatten the first portion with your hands or a rolling pin , then fold the sides towards the center to reinforce the dough .
Pass the dough through the pasta machine starting from the thickest setting . Fold again and continue passing the dough through the machine, gradually reducing the thickness until reaching a measurement of 1/50 inch. Cut the sheets to a length of 12-14 inches, sprinkle with some semolina and let dry for 10 minutes on each side; this way, the tagliatelle will not stick together when you cut them.
At this point, roll up the sheets by folding both ends multiple times towards the center to form a cylinder , then cut it into strips of about 1/4 to 5/16 of an inch wide .
Unroll the obtained tagliatelle and wrap them around your fingers to form nests . Place the eggless tagliatelle nests on the work surface with a generous sprinkle of semolina, both on top and underneath .
You can cook the eggless tagliatelle immediately or let them dry on the work surface in a cool, dry place. Once dried, you can store them in sealed bags in the pantry or freeze them in freezer bags.
Cook the eggless tagliatelle in salted boiling water and drain them as soon as they rise to the surface.
Resting the dough is necessary to relax the gluten mesh; otherwise, it will tend to shrink when you roll it out.
If you wish to use a mix of semolina and all-purpose flour, you will need to slightly reduce the amount of water, adjusting based on the consistency of the mixture.

