name:
Carbonara Supplì
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1.1 l)
Guanciale: 0.9lb(400 g)
Coarse salt: to taste
Egg yolks: 6
Eggs: 2
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- to grate
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- to grate
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 4
Breadcrumbs: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Panko: 1cup(100 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time (about 12 h)

instructions:
Today we tempt you with an irresistible recipe dedicated to lovers of frying and street food: carbonara supplì! A white variant of the classic supplì al telefono inspired by another typical Roman dish, carbonara . In this case, the rice is not seasoned with meat sauce and mozzarella but with an egg cream, Pecorino, pepper, and guanciale that perfectly envelops and flavors every grain. However, the differences with the original version do not end there... to achieve an even crunchier result, we opted for a double breading with breadcrumbs and panko, which will make every bite a symphony! Will the carbonara supplì convince even the purists of tradition? The only way to find out is to try them with our recipe!
Also try these tasty variants:
Discover more delicious Carbonara recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the carbonara supplì, first remove the rind from the guanciale and cut it into cubes . Place the guanciale in a well-heated pan and sauté over medium heat for about ten minutes, stirring occasionally and being careful not to burn it . Once ready, drain the guanciale and set aside the fat released during cooking.
Meanwhile, put a pot with water on the stove to cook the rice, add a pinch of coarse salt and bring to a boil. Pour the rice and cook for about 15 minutes, stirring often to prevent sticking . While the rice is cooking, prepare the egg cream: pour the eggs and yolks into a bowl, then add the Parmigiano Reggiano PDO and the Pecorino Romano PDO .
Pepper and add the guanciale fat in a thin stream while blending with an immersion mixer; alternatively, you can use a hand whisk. You should obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture .
After the rice cooking time, check that it has absorbed all the water, then add the browned guanciale and the egg mixture . Mix well to combine everything and adjust the salt if necessary, then transfer the seasoned rice onto a baking sheet and let it cool to room temperature. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 12 hours.
After the cooling time, moisten your hands with water and take portions of rice of about 3.5 oz each. Form the supplì by compacting them well to obtain a cylindrical shape ; with these quantities, you will get about ten. After forming all the supplì, proceed with the double breading: dip one supplì at a time first in the beaten eggs and then in the breadcrumbs .
Repeat the breading by dipping the supplì again in the beaten eggs and finally covering it with panko . Place the breaded supplì on a tray .
You are ready to fry: heat the oil to 340°F, then immerse 1 or 2 supplì at a time and fry for a couple of minutes, making sure they do not touch the bottom to achieve uniform browning. Drain and transfer the carbonara supplì to paper towels . Serve immediately!
It is recommended to consume the carbonara supplì as soon as they are ready. Alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator for one day and reheat them in the oven before serving.
If you prefer, you can replace the guanciale with pancetta, or use only Pecorino for a stronger flavor. Conversely, for a more delicate taste, you can opt for only Parmigiano Reggiano PDO.
Instead of panko, you can use rustic and coarse breadcrumbs.
The absorption cooking method retains all the starch in the pot, allowing you to obtain creamier rice that is easier to shape.
Do not throw away the guanciale rind, but use it to flavor a soup, for example!

