name:
Zucchini and Ricotta Savory Tart
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1roll- round
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Zucchini: 3 ½cups(350 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Eggs: 2
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Savory pies are a delicious and versatile option in the kitchen, ideal for many occasions and ready to conquer everyone's palate. This time we are presenting our zucchini and ricotta savory pie, an easy and tasty variant! The zucchini are the main ingredient, which we simply chose to sauté in a pan to preserve their delicate flavor. The ricotta, with its irresistible creaminess, perfectly envelops the zucchini and becomes the perfect filling for the puff pastry shell. A quick and easy decoration makes this zucchini tart so special, and following our tips, we are sure that this savory pie will become the undisputed star of your table or picnic! Enjoy it lukewarm or at room temperature, it will be excellent in both cases! Here are other ideas to try:
To prepare the zucchini and ricotta savory pie, first wash and slice the zucchini into rather thin rounds . Try to achieve a thickness of about 1/12 to 1/8 of an inch. In a pan, pour a drizzle of oil and add a crushed clove of garlic with the skin on. Let it flavor for a few minutes, then add the zucchini . Use a large pan and ensure that most of the zucchini do not overlap. Add salt and cook over medium heat.
Cook for 8-10 minutes without stirring too much until the zucchini are tender but slightly charred . Remove the garlic, set it aside, and let it cool slightly. Meanwhile, work the ricotta in a bowl using a hand whisk. Add the eggs and the grated Grana Padano, reserving some aside .
Add a pinch of salt , a grind of pepper, and thyme . Mix well with the whisk, then add the now lukewarm zucchini .
Mix with a wooden spoon . Take the puff pastry and unroll it gently. Place it in a tart pan, preferably with a removable bottom, with a diameter of 9.45 inches. Carefully adhere the edges, allowing the excess to hang over . Prick the bottom with the tines of a fork .
Sprinkle the base with the reserved grated Grana Padano ; this will help isolate the base and prevent it from becoming soggy during baking. Now pour in the filling and level it with a spatula .
Fold the edges, rolling them slightly to form a border , without pressing it too much. Sprinkle the surface with the remaining 1 oz of grated Grana Padano .
Sprinkle also with a layer of breadcrumbs for a super golden crust, and more thyme. Pour a generous tablespoon of oil into a small bowl and dip the brush in it. Brush the entire edge . Drizzle the little remaining oil (on the brush and in the bowl) over the rest of the pie. Bake it in a static oven at 390°F for 35-40 minutes. Unmold it gently after letting it cool slightly and serve it .
The zucchini and ricotta savory tart can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
If you prefer, you can also fry the zucchini and drain them well before adding them to the ricotta. You can add grated provolone to the cream.

