name:
Potato and Artichoke Frittata
ingredients:
Eggs: 6
Purple artichokes: 2- (Carciofo Romanesco type)
Red potatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.1oz(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Frittata? It has always been the tasty and quick answer to a last-minute lunch, but the frittata can be rich and delicious, like our potato and artichoke frittata! An easy-to-prepare vegetarian main course with our recipe that involves cooking vegetables and eggs in a single pan. We added the typical side dish of Artichokes and Potatoes to the homemade frittata, which gives this dish an extra kick. Enjoy it as a seasonal main course or in small bites at an aperitif like the Artichoke, Mushroom and Smoked Bacon Omelette . If the combination of artichokes and potatoes is to your liking, don't miss other interesting dishes that will enhance your menus:
To prepare the frittata, start by cleaning the artichokes, removing the outer and tougher leaves , peeling the stem (shortening it if very long), and then trimming the tips .
Cut them in half lengthwise. Now remove the choke and scrape any internal tips. Slice the quarters thinly, about a quarter inch , and place the artichokes in acidulated water with lemon while you continue with the preparation. Peel the potatoes .
Cut them in half and slice them thinly . In a non-stick pan, add a splash of oil and flavor the base with a crushed clove of garlic in its skin . Add the artichokes .
Add the potatoes and a pinch of salt, stir and cook over high heat for 4-5 minutes. Then cover with the lid and continue for another 10-12 minutes at a lower temperature. At this point, the vegetables will be soft and well-cooked and you can remove the garlic. Meanwhile, in a bowl, beat the eggs with the cheese .
Season with a bit of salt , pepper, and thyme. Pour the mixture over the potatoes and artichokes . Cover with the lid and cook for about 7 minutes.
Use the spatula to compact the frittata and make it well-rounded . Flip the frittata and cook it on the other side for about 4-5 minutes , without the lid. Finally, slide it onto a serving plate and enjoy it warm or hot.
Store the potato and artichoke frittata in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
As an alternative to garlic, you can use a shallot. Artichokes can be frozen raw, already cleaned and sliced, to speed up preparations.

