name:
Meat Stuffed Zucchini Flowers
ingredients:
Zucchini flowers: 6.3oz(180 g)- (about 18-20 pieces)
Ground beef: 10.6oz(300 g)
White wine: 1.4oz(40 g)
Marjoram: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to grate)
Water: 0.9cup(220 g)- warm
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(15 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼tsp(6 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Sunflower seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 30 min. of batter rising time (it is recommended to pay attention during frying)

instructions:
Zucchini flowers are one of the most beloved summer ingredients: baked zucchini flowers , in sciurilli fritters , or with various fillings. Today we propose zucchini flowers stuffed with meat! This recipe combines the crunchiness of perfect frying with a delicious filling of beef and rich béchamel, with the addition of Grana Padano DOP. A tastier upgrade, because instead of making simple battered zucchini flowers , we have stuffed them, closed them well, and dipped them in a soft batter that will fully envelop them to give you a fried appetizer to lick your fingers!
Discover more recipes with zucchini flowers:
To prepare the meat stuffed zucchini flowers, start with the filling. In a skillet, pour a drizzle of oil and brown the beef : stir often and cook for about 10 minutes over high heat. Once well-sealed, you can deglaze with white wine , then salt and pepper to taste . Set aside to cool.
Move on to the béchamel: heat the milk in a saucepan while melting the butter in a large pot. Once melted, you can add the flour all at once , stirring with a whisk to form a roux. At that point, you can pour in the hot milk and continue to stir with the whisk . Salt and pepper.
Once thickened , turn off the heat and add the grated Grana Padano DOP . Stir , cover with plastic wrap, and set aside to cool.
Now prepare the batter: dissolve the fresh yeast in lukewarm water , stir and pour everything into a bowl where you have placed the flour . Stir and then add sugar and salt .
Once ready , cover with plastic wrap and let rest at room temperature for 30 minutes. By this time, the béchamel will have cooled, so you can add the meat . Stir and flavor with chopped marjoram .
Pour the filling into a wide, shallow bowl, cover with plastic wrap in contact with the surface, and let the filling cool completely . Clean the zucchini flowers gently with a brush or dry cloth, then carefully remove the pistil without breaking the flower . Fill the zucchini flowers halfway with the cold filling that you have placed in a piping bag without a nozzle .
Seal the flower by gently twisting the end of the petals . Place them on a tray, and meanwhile, heat the vegetable oil to 320°F-330°F (160°C-165°C) (measure with a kitchen thermometer). Dip the zucchini flowers in the risen batter , making sure to cover them completely .
For this cooking phase, we recommend maximum caution to avoid burns or splashes of hot oil: fry 2-3 zucchini flowers at a time to prevent the oil temperature from dropping too much , turning them during cooking. Once evenly golden , drain them on paper towels, then serve them still hot !
It is recommended to consume the fried stuffed zucchini flowers immediately.
The filling can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container. Then, it is advisable to take it out of the fridge at least 1-2 hours before and stir before placing it in the piping bag and stuffing.
Marjoram can be replaced with fresh thyme or oregano.
You can use dry yeast, remembering that 1 g of dry yeast is equivalent to about 3.5 g of fresh yeast.

