name:
Artichoke Pie
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8oz(230 g)- 1 round roll
Artichokes: 6
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)- (to grate)
Whole milk: ⅓cup(80 g)
Eggs: 2
Garlic: 2cloves
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
The artichoke pie is an excellent vegetarian idea for a picnic on a day trip! Or why not, also for a family dinner, a buffet with friends, or for a lunch box at the office... once you see how easy and quick it is to prepare, you will always find a good reason to enjoy a slice. The filling, based on eggs, cheese, and artichokes, is inspired by the classic quiche , while for the base we chose the most practical and convenient solution, which is the ready-made puff pastry . After assembling and baking it, you can choose to serve it immediately with a simple side salad or enjoy it at room temperature for an outdoor lunch... in any case, we are sure that you will love this savory artichoke pie!
Also try these savory pies with artichokes recipes:
To make the savory artichoke pie, first clean the artichokes : remove the tougher outer leaves , then round the base with a small knife, slightly peeling the stem . Cut them in half and remove the inner choke .
Finally, cut the artichokes into wedges and immerse them in acidulated water . In a non-stick pan, briefly sauté the oil with the chopped garlic cloves .
Add the artichokes , salt , and cook with the lid on for 10-15 minutes over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally .
Meanwhile, cut the white scamorza cheese into cubes . After the artichokes have cooked, add the basil leaves and pepper for flavor.
Set the artichokes aside for a moment and crack the eggs into a bowl, then add about three-quarters of the grated Grana Padano PDO cheese and the milk . Mix the ingredients well .
Add the artichokes and the scamorza cheese , then mix again. Next, oil a 11-inch (28 cm) diameter pan .
Unroll the puff pastry and place it in the pan , then prick the base with a fork and sprinkle part of the remaining Grana Padano to make it waterproof .
Pour the egg and artichoke mixture into the pan and smooth the surface. Roll up the excess puff pastry on itself to create a decorative edge , then brush with oil .
Sprinkle the surface with more grated Grana Padano PDO cheese and ground pepper. Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F (180°C) for about 40 minutes, placing the pan on the middle-lower rack . During the last few minutes of baking, you can turn on the broiler to brown the surface. Once cooked, take out your artichoke pie and enjoy it hot or at room temperature !
The artichoke pie can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container. You can freeze it after baking.
You can replace the scamorza cheese with other types of cheese you have in the fridge!
The artichoke stems, if present, can be cooked in the pan along with the rest after peeling and cutting them into rounds.
If you prefer, you can add just one whole garlic clove and then remove it from the pan.

