name:
Asparagus Frittata
ingredients:
Eggs: 6- medium
Asparagus: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to clean)
Garlic: 2cloves
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- (to be grated)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3spoonfuls
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The frittata is a really versatile main course that can be enriched in many ways, for example with vegetables like the asparagus frittata we propose here! This version combines three perfect ingredients together: eggs, asparagus, and Grana Padano PDO, an inseparable trio also excellent in the classic recipe of Asparagus Milanese . Discover how simple it is to prepare this dish, certainly one of the easiest frittata recipes, as there will be no need to blanch or cut the asparagus beforehand: you will only need one pan! Ideal to serve both hot and at room temperature, the asparagus frittata can be made in advance for picnics, outings, and buffets. Take advantage of the season to also make some fun Asparagus muffins or simple Asparagus in the pan to give a tasty welcome to spring!
Also try these asparagus frittatas:
To make the asparagus frittata, first clean the asparagus: remove the end of the stalk and peel the remaining part . Leave the thinner asparagus whole and cut the thicker ones in half lengthwise .
In a non-stick pan with a diameter of 28 cm (11 inches), heat a drizzle of oil with the cloves of garlic in their skins , then place the asparagus without overlapping them , add salt and cover with the lid . Sauté the asparagus over medium heat for 5-7 minutes, shaking the pan often.
Meanwhile, beat the eggs in a bowl with a whisk , then add salt , pepper, and grated Grana Padano PDO . Stir again to combine everything.
When the asparagus are tender and braised, remove the lid and discard the garlic. Rearrange the asparagus with kitchen tongs to form a single layer that almost completely covers the bottom of the pan , then pour in the egg mixture . Lower the heat slightly, cover with the lid, and cook for about 8 minutes .
Occasionally, you can compact the edge of the frittata with the help of a spatula to obtain a rounded shape . After the cooking time, slide the frittata onto a plate and flip it back into the pan, then cook for another 2 minutes without the lid . Transfer your asparagus frittata to the serving plate and serve !
The asparagus frittata can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days in an airtight container.
You can garnish the asparagus frittata with aromatic herbs of your choice, for example basil, oregano, thyme, dill, marjoram, or chives.
If you prefer, you can use wild asparagus!

