name:
Long Fermentation Pizza
ingredients:
Flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)- (W 350)
Water: ⅔cup(150 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.6tsp(3 g)
Flour: 1 ⅔cup(200 g)- (W 350)
Water: 0.8cup(180 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.4tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 9.2oz(260 g)
Basil: to taste
Pizza mozzarella cheese: 10.6oz(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 1 pieces
Cost: Low
Note longer fermentation times (about 48 hours)

instructions:
The more the pizza dough ferments (or rather matures!), the lighter and more digestible your pizza will be. With long fermentation pizza, you just need to be patient for your dough to develop! You won't need stand mixers or special tools for this special pizza: the most important thing to achieve a smooth dough and a well-formed gluten network will be the waiting and the folds. The result? A baking sheet pizza that's crispy on the outside and soft on the inside, fragrant and delicious! We suggest the most beloved topping, tomato, mozzarella, and plenty of basil like a Margherita , but you can get creative with many combinations! Some examples? You can prepare a delicious Roman-style pizza , with mortadella and buffalo mozzarella, or the Marinara pizza , one of the classics! Also, find out how to make:
If you're short on time, you could make the pizza with baking soda.
Discover more delicious Pizza recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the long fermentation pizza, start with the pre-ferment, which should be prepared about 48 hours in advance. Pour 300 grams (2 1/2 cups) of flour into a bowl, 3 grams (2/3 tsp) of crumbled fresh yeast , and the water . Initially mix with a fork (or a dough scraper) , then knead by hand for a few moments.
It will be enough to knead briefly, just until the flour absorbs all the water . Check that no flour is left at the bottom of the bowl. Cover with plastic wrap, make a few holes , and let it mature for 20-24 hours at room temperature, preferably around 65°F. After the indicated hours, your pre-ferment will be matured .
Break it into pieces in a larger bowl to make it easier to incorporate into the dough. Pour in half the amount of water (about 3/8 cup) , and crumble the fresh yeast .
Lightly knead and then add the entire amount of flour at once . Knead by hand again, and when the flour is almost absorbed, add the salt .
Gradually add the remaining water while continuing to knead . Once the water and salt are incorporated, transfer to a work surface and start kneading energetically , using a dough scraper if necessary. If you prefer, you can also make the dough in a stand mixer.
You should handle the dough until it is no longer sticky (without adding more flour). Let it rest for just 5 minutes under a tea towel, then give the dough a couple of folds, shape it into a ball , and place it in a lightly oiled bowl . Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for an hour at room temperature to kick start the fermentation, then place it in the refrigerator for 24 hours!
When you take the dough out the next day, it will be bubbly and well-risen. Give it a couple of folds while it's still cold , shape it into a ball, and then seal it in a lightly oiled dough box away from drafts for 90 minutes .
After this time, sprinkle the work table with semolina flour, flip the dough over , sprinkle more semolina on the surface , and begin stretching it with your fingertips, pressing first along the outer edge from top to bottom .
Then press in the center very gently . Also, lift the dough gently to stretch it slightly so that it roughly matches the dimensions of the baking sheet you'll be using. We used a lightly oiled iron baking sheet of 16x12 inches. Lift the dough gently with your forearm and remove the excess semolina.
Place it on the baking sheet and gently stretch it to the edges without tearing it . If it doesn't reach the edges easily, don't worry, wait 5 minutes and then stretch it again . Move on to the topping: we chose peeled tomatoes, spread on the pizza, then salt and a drizzle of oil. If you prefer, you can also mash them in a small bowl and season them before placing them on the pizza. Bake in a preheated oven at 480°F for about 10 minutes on the lowest rack.
Once out of the oven, transfer the pizza to the oven rack, top as desired: we used basil and mozzarella , then bake again at 480°F with the fan setting for just 5 minutes, just enough time for the mozzarella to melt. Ready to cut and serve !
We recommend consuming the pizza immediately. Alternatively, you can freeze it or store it in the refrigerator and reheat it when needed.
For a white pizza, grease the surface of the pizza and add your preferred ingredients! If you don't have an iron baking sheet, you can use a regular baking sheet.

