name:
Macaroni Pie with Sausage and Artichokes
ingredients:
Tortiglioni pasta: 10.6oz(300 g)
Artichokes: 1.7lbs(750 g)- (to be cleaned)
Sausage: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Taleggio cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Leeks: 5.3oz(150 g)
White wine: 1.8oz(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Water: to taste
Lemons: to taste
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅓cup(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Looking for an alternative to the usual lasagna? Try this tasty macaroni pie with sausage and artichokes: a perfect preparation to enrich a dish of pasta with flavor! The seasoning we used for this Macaroni Pie is the result of a truly successful combination: the succulent sausage meets the bitter taste of the artichokes for an enveloping triumph of flavors. If we add to this the irresistible creaminess of the béchamel , the result can only be a guaranteed success. This macaroni pie with sausage and artichokes is a recipe with spring flavors, ideal for Easter!
Try other succulent dishes, ideal for your Easter menu:
To prepare the macaroni pie with sausage and artichokes, start with the béchamel: heat the milk in a saucepan while melting the butter in a pot . When the butter is melted, add the flour all at once and cook for 2 minutes, stirring constantly with a whisk to avoid lumps .
Pour in the hot milk , season with salt and pepper, and let the béchamel thicken while continuing to stir ; it will take about 5 minutes. Let it cool and set aside. Clean and slice the leeks .
Remove the casing from the sausage , then proceed with the cleaning of the artichokes : remove the tougher outer leaves and cut off the tip .
Peel the stem to remove the tougher outer part , then cut them in half and then thinly slice them . Immerse them in acidulated water to prevent them from turning black.
In a pan, brown a clove of garlic with a drizzle of oil. Add the sausage and break it up with a spoon to get a texture similar to ragù . Once browned, add the artichokes to the pan , season with salt, and cook for about 7 minutes over medium-high heat, stirring often.
Meanwhile, cook the tortiglioni in boiling salted water . After 7 minutes, add the leeks to the pan , deglaze with white wine , and cook for another 5 minutes.
Drain the tortiglioni al dente and transfer them to the pan , then mix. Pour in 2/3 of the béchamel, season with thyme leaves , and stir to combine.
Transfer 2/3 of the pasta to a round baking dish 10 inches in diameter . Add half of the taleggio , then spread over a little more béchamel .
Cover with the remaining pasta, complete with the last pieces of taleggio, the remaining béchamel , and some thyme leaves . Bake in a preheated conventional oven at 480°F for 5 minutes, then continue in grill mode at 480°F for 3 minutes. Remove from the oven and let the macaroni pie with sausage and artichokes cool slightly before serving !
We suggest consuming this tasty macaroni pie with sausage and artichokes as soon as it's ready. If there are leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for up to 2 days.
You can also decide to freeze it if you have used only fresh and not defrosted ingredients: this way, you will have it ready for an unexpected dinner with friends and make a good impression!
If you do not like the strong taste of taleggio, you can replace it with sweet provolone or brie.

