name:
Chicken Piccata
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.3lbs(600 g)- sliced
Lemons: ½
Capers in oil: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Chicken broth: 0.4cup(100 g)
Parsley: to taste
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 6 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Have you ever heard of "piccata"? When we discovered it, we got curious and made chicken piccata! Piccata is a term that comes from the French " piqué " and typically identifies a preparation using thin, sliced, "flattened" ingredients: in this case, we used slices of chicken breast. The process is similar to that of lemon scallops . In this case, we wait for the cooking to brown the meat, seared and then cooked in chicken broth , flavored with capers and lots of lemon juice and slices! Creamy, tasty, simple to prepare, and delicious, this main dish will become one of your go-to recipes!
Don't miss other tasty ideas from the great classics of our culinary tradition:
Discover more delicious Chicken recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the chicken piccata, first prepare the chicken broth . Wash and then chop the parsley leaves with a knife . Wash well and then slice half a lemon .
Cut each slice in half and set aside. Squeeze the other half of the lemon and strain the juice. Finally, flour the chicken slices well .
Heat the oil and 4 tbsps of butter in a pan over low heat , place the chicken breasts, and brown them . Once browned, salt and turn the chicken breasts to brown the other side, salting again.
Remove the breasts from the pan and set them aside . In the same pan, pour the chicken broth and 2 tbsps of lemon juice .
Let it all simmer, then add the lemon slices and cook for about 1 minute . Add the chicken breasts as well , cook for about 1 minute on medium heat, and season with parsley .
Add the capers well drained from the preservation oil , cook for another minute or until the sauce reduces a bit. Remove the pan from the heat and add the remaining 3 tbsps of butter in pieces , letting it melt while stirring well. Add pepper to taste and serve the chicken piccata immediately .
Store the chicken piccata in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to two days. Do not freeze.
We recommend reducing the liquid well by bringing it to a simmer once the chicken breasts are added to the pan; the liquid should not cover them.
For best results, flour the breasts immediately before cooking them.
We used oil-packed capers, but you can also use salt-packed capers, once well desalinated.
Some variations of the recipe also include onion or shallot and wine instead of broth.

