name:
Penne with Artichokes and Pancetta
ingredients:
Penne Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Artichokes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Smoked pancetta: 5.3oz(150 g)
White wine: 2tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2tbsp(30 g)- grated
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
How delicious is artichoke pasta ? If you too are fans of this main course, you cannot miss our penne with artichokes and bacon, an easy and tasty recipe to prepare at home! When the artichoke season begins, no one can resist their unique taste, and so we wanted to experiment and try this combination, which we think is truly perfect! To get a creamy pasta, as we like, we blended some of the artichokes with a bit of ricotta. This way, even without adding cream, you will get a rich sauce that blends perfectly with the penne rigate! No one will be able to resist the crunchiness of the pancetta and this tasty combination... try our penne with artichokes and pancetta: a main course that all your guests will surely love! Discover also:
To prepare penne with artichokes and pancetta, first clean the artichokes. Remove the outer leaves and peel the stem . Then cut them in half .
Remove the inner choke and cut off the tip of the artichoke . Now cut into thin slices .
To prevent them from browning, place the artichokes in water with lemon . Move on to the pancetta; remove the rind and cut it into small cubes . Pour a tablespoon of oil into a pan and heat it. Add the pancetta now .
Stir with a wooden spoon until it is well browned , then transfer it to a plate, trying to drain it from the cooking fat .
In the same pan, add the artichokes and season with salt and pepper . Cook for a few minutes and deglaze with white wine .
Cook the artichokes for about 8-9 minutes over medium-high heat until they are well browned , and in the meantime, start boiling a pot full of salted water. As soon as it starts to boil, you can add the penne . Take some of the artichokes and transfer them to a blender cup .
Add the ricotta , the grated Parmigiano Reggiano , and 1 tablespoon of extra virgin oil .
Also, add the thyme leaves and blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a smooth cream . If necessary, you can add a ladle of cooking water.
As soon as the pasta is cooked, drain it and add it to the artichokes ; add the freshly prepared cream, the pancetta, and toss everything . Plate and garnish with some thyme leaves and a sprinkle of black pepper . Enjoy your penne with artichokes and pancetta immediately!
We recommend consuming the pasta immediately while it is hot. Alternatively, it can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day.
Once you have placed the artichokes in water with lemon, place a sheet of kitchen paper on top, so the ones floating on the surface do not turn black. For a ricotta-free version, you can blend the artichokes with just cooking water, adding some almonds, extra virgin oil, and fresh thyme.

