name:
Pizza with Instant Yeast
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Water: 1cup(220 g)- at room temperature
Fine salt: 1.4tsp(8 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 1.1tsp(15 g)
Tomato purée: ¾cup(200 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Salami: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Oregano: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
What to do when the craving for pizza hits but there isn't enough time to prepare it? Instant yeast pizza is the answer to this problem! In just a few minutes, the dough will be ready, and since it is a pizza without brewer's yeast, there is no need to wait for long rising times! We know that leavened products with brewer's yeast and those with sourdough have unsurpassed characteristics, but sometimes you have to compromise, and if it's a good compromise, even better! We suggest topping the instant yeast pizza with mushrooms, gorgonzola, and prosciutto, but you can enrich this quick pizza with many other ingredients. The final result won't exactly be like the original, but we are sure you will be very satisfied with this quick and tasty recipe, like this no-knead pizza !
If you are looking for other savory preparations with instant yeast, also try the Bread with Instant Yeast or the original pizza muffins and pizza doughnuts ! If, on the other hand, you want to try a preparation without yeast, here is our stuffed focaccia!
And if you have time to spend in the kitchen, discover our tray pizza or the sourdough pizza!
Discover more delicious Pizza recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the instant yeast pizza, first pour the flour, instant yeast for savory preparations , salt , and water into a bowl.
Mix the ingredients with a spoon , then start kneading with your hands . Transfer the dough to a surface and work it for a few minutes until it is smooth and homogeneous .
Now divide the dough in half and form 2 balls . Get two 12-inch pans and grease them with a thin layer of oil . Place the first ball in the center of one of the two pans .
Flatten with oiled hands and stretch it gently until it covers the entire surface . If the dough resists, stop and wait a few minutes before continuing; this way, the dough will relax and be easier to stretch. Pour the tomato sauce in the center of each pizza .
Spread it with the back of a spoon and season with oil and salt . If you prefer, you can season the sauce separately before pouring it onto the pizza.
Add a few oregano leaves and bake in a preheated conventional oven at 430°F for 15 minutes, positioning it on the oven base. Remove your pizza from the oven and, using a spatula , move it to a rack. Add mozzarella strips on top .
Also place the Gorgonzola using a spoon and arrange the salami slices on top . Bake in a preheated convection oven at 390°F, placing the pizza directly on the oven rack. Remove from the oven and serve hot .
We recommend consuming the pizza immediately. Alternatively, it can be stored in the refrigerator for one day or frozen once cooked.
For a higher, softer but less crispy pizza, cook the pizzas in two 10 1/2-inch pans.

