name:
Ricotta and Spinach Strudel
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- (1 roll)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 4.5oz(125 g)
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(25 g)
Eggs: 1
Spinach: 4 ½cups(500 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.6oz(75 g)- to grate
Garlic: 1clove
Butter: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The traditional strudel , an iconic dessert from Trentino, has a new savory version in this appetizing recipe for strudel with ricotta and spinach. The apples have been replaced with a soft mix of ricotta and spinach, and nutmeg has taken the place of cinnamon. Pine nuts, however, remain indispensable, adding an irresistible crunchy touch to this variation of the vegetable strudel. The convenience of ready-made pastry will make this enticing appetizer easier and quicker to prepare, so even less experienced cooks can give it a try.
Try our savory strudel and experiment with other recipes using this winning combination of flavors:
To prepare the strudel with ricotta and spinach, place a pan with butter, garlic, and the washed spinach over the heat. Add salt, cover with a lid, and cook over medium-low heat for about 4-5 minutes. Remove the garlic , place the spinach in a colander to drain the liquids, if necessary, press them a bit with a spoon, then let them cool .
Once the spinach has lost its water, chop it with a knife . Transfer it to a bowl, add the Grana Padano PDO and the egg .
Also incorporate the ricotta , pine nuts , salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg .
Mix to combine . Roll out the pastry on a sheet of baking paper, spread the filling only on one half giving it a rectangular shape and leaving about 1 1/4 inch from the bottom and side edges, fold the bottom edge .
Fold the side edges as well . Using the baking paper, flip the strudel .
So that the filling is completely wrapped in the pastry, with the seam on the bottom . In a small bowl, mix an egg yolk with 1 1/5 tbsp of milk and mix .
Brush the surface of the strudel with the milk and yolk mixture . Make cuts on the surface of the strudel and transfer the strudel to a baking sheet . Bake in a preheated convection oven at 375°F for about 25 minutes, or until uniformly golden.
Remove from the oven , let cool and then slice your strudel with ricotta and spinach .
Store the strudel with ricotta and spinach in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days. You can freeze the strudel after baking.
Drain the ricotta if it has a lot of whey. If using frozen spinach, you will need about half the amount, follow the cooking instructions on the package, drain, and continue with the recipe. It is normal for the inside of the strudel to remain slightly moist due to the consistency of the filling.

