name:
Egg and Cheese Stuffed Artichoke
ingredients:
Artichokes: 4- (about 10.6 oz each)
Eggs: 4
Provola cheese: 4.2oz(120 g)- to grate
Pecorino cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Bread: 3.2oz(90 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Coarse salt: 1tsp
Lemons: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Who said vegetables are just a side dish? In this recipe, we offer you an incredibly rich and appetizing vegetarian main dish, stuffed artichokes with eggs and cheese! A delicious variation of the classic Stuffed Artichokes , featuring a soft and savory heart: the filling is inspired by the mixture used for pallotte cacio e ova , a typical Abruzzese recipe based on bread, Pecorino cheese, and eggs, which we further enriched with provolone to achieve a melting effect. The mammole, with their round and spacious shape and spineless fleshy leaves, are the ideal choice for this preparation and will guarantee optimal results in terms of both taste and texture... so if you find them at the market, don't hesitate, it's time to prepare stuffed artichokes with eggs and cheese!
Also try these traditional stuffed artichoke variations:
To make the stuffed artichokes with eggs and cheese, first clean the artichokes : remove the stem , discard the outer leaves , and round the base, then cut off the tips .
Finally, open the artichoke into a flower shape and remove the choke with a scooper . Blanch the whole artichokes in salted and acidulated boiling water for 8 minutes , then drain them and let them dry upside down on a clean cloth .
In the meantime, prepare the filling: cut the bread into cubes and transfer it to a mixer, then add the thyme and salt . Blend coarsely .
In another bowl, pour the eggs, the grated Pecorino cheese and the provolone cheese that you have previously grated with a coarse grater ; set aside a handful of provolone for the next step in the oven. Add salt, pepper, and mix everything with a fork .
At this point, gradually add the seasoned bread crumbs ; adjust the amount based on the bread's absorption level and mix until you get a soft and compact mixture . In a pan (preferably oven-safe), heat a drizzle of oil with unpeeled garlic cloves and some thyme sprigs .
Place the artichokes in the pan with the cut side down and the petals well spread . Let them season for a few minutes, then turn off the heat, flip them, and let them cool . Once cooled, generously stuff the inside of the artichokes with the filling, pressing it well .
Round the shape of the stuffed artichokes with your hands to compact them , then place them back in the pan (or transfer them to a baking dish). Sprinkle the surface with the reserved provolone and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 25 minutes. When they are nicely golden on the surface, remove from the oven and garnish your stuffed artichokes with eggs and cheese with a grind of pepper and a few thyme leaves!
The stuffed artichokes with eggs and cheese can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days in an airtight container.
If you can't find mammole artichokes, you can use other varieties, ensuring to spread the petals well to create space for the filling.
Don't throw away the artichoke stems but use them to prepare other delicious recipes, such as Hummus with Artichoke Stems !
As an alternative to provolone, you can use mozzarella after draining it well.
The bread can be fresh or stale: the absorption level of the liquids will vary, so adjust the amount based on the mixture's consistency.
Cooking the artichokes in the pan helps to add more flavor, but if you are short on time, you can skip this step and go directly to baking.

