name:
Creamy Pasta and Peas
ingredients:
Fusilli pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Peas: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Fresh scallion: 1
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Stracchino cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pasta and peas is a classic springtime pasta dish... if you are looking for a way to make it even more delicious, try our creamy pasta and peas! An excellent alternative to enhance this traditional dish would be to add Pasta with pea cream and guanciale , but for the beautiful season, we preferred to prepare a vegetarian pasta, enriching it with Stracchino cheese and lots of Grana Padano! We are lovers of creamy first courses, so after traditionally cooking the peas, we blended them and used them to dress the fusilli, which we believe is one of the best pasta shapes for this sauce. To enhance the sweetness of the peas and give the pasta a truly creamy touch, we chose to use Stracchino to stir in, off the heat, our fusilli. Discover how easy it is to prepare creamy pasta and peas and delight your guests with this recipe! Here are other versions to try:
To prepare the creamy pasta and peas, start by putting a pot full of salted water on the stove, which will be used for cooking the pasta. Then move on to the scallion: remove the lower part with the roots and the green part. Remove the outer layer and slice it into rings . In a saucepan, pour a bit of oil and add the scallion .
Add the peas , salt , and a couple of ladles of the water set for cooking the pasta .
Let it cook for about 10 minutes . After this time, cook the fusilli in the water, which will now have reached a boil. Set aside some peas for the final plating and transfer the rest to a tall, narrow container. Blend the peas with an immersion blender .
Once you have a cream , transfer it back to the pot . Drain the fusilli al dente and add them to the sauce .
Mix well , adding a bit of cooking water if necessary. Off the heat, stir in the grated Grana Padano and the Stracchino cheese, keeping some aside for the final decoration .
Mix well and finally add a dash of pepper and a drizzle of oil . Serve your pasta decorated with the peas and some Stracchino .
Creamy pasta and peas can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended. If you have leftovers, we suggest gratinating the pasta and peas in the oven!
If you use fresh peas, use the pods to flavor the pasta water. If you don't like Stracchino, you can omit it or replace it with another creamy cheese, or with stracciatella or gorgonzola!

