name:
Apricot Jam
ingredients:
Apricots: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 4 hours of fruit maceration

instructions:
Apricot jam is a classic homemade preserve: easy to make and delicious; it is certainly one of the most loved and spread on hot toasted bread slices for breakfast in the morning. Even though the times and pace of modern life no longer allow us to make homemade products as we once did, an exception can be made for apricot jam because it is the queen of jams and will keep you company throughout the winter for preparing many delicious tarts ! Take advantage of the summer season to get fresh and ripe apricots, and dedicate some time to this simple preparation that will allow you to enrich your pantry with lots of delicious winter supplies! The recipes with apricot jam are really many, for example, you can use it to fill the famous Sacher Torte , the Poured cake with apricot jam cream or the traditional Gobeletti .
And if you are looking for other jams, also try:
To prepare apricot jam, start by choosing the apricots: choose ripe and unblemished fruits. Wash the apricots well and dry them using a cloth . Cut them in half, without peeling them , and remove the pit .
Cut them into wedges and gradually place the cut apricots in a large bowl; add the sugar and mix .
Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it macerate for about 4 hours in a cool place. After the resting time, pour everything into a pot and bring to a boil, stirring occasionally .
While the jam cooks, you can dedicate yourself to sanitizing the jars and lids. Occasionally check the state of the jam. The fruit will start to fall apart , and during cooking, it may be necessary to skim the jam, especially if the apricot skin has some small blemishes. After 30 minutes from boiling, your apricot jam should be ready : take a bit of the mixture with a teaspoon and let a drop fall on a plate; it should remain compact. This is proof that your jam is ready . If the drop slides off and is not compact, continue cooking, stirring frequently.
Once ready, you can jar the still-hot jam in the sanitized jars: fill the jars with a ladle, and if you prefer, you can also use a jam funnel , making sure to leave at least less than 1/2-inch of space from the rim of the jar. Screw the lids on tightly but not too tight, turn them upside down , and let them cool. The heat from the jam will create a vacuum seal, allowing the product to be preserved for a long time. Once the jars have cooled, turn them back upright and check if the vacuum seal was successful: you can press the center of the lid, and if you don't hear the typical "click-clack," the vacuum seal has occurred. Your apricot jam is ready to be enjoyed!
Apricot jam keeps for about 3 months, provided the vacuum seal was successful and the jars are stored in a cool, dry place, away from light and heat sources. It is advisable to wait at least 2-3 weeks before consuming the jam. Once each jar is opened, store it in the refrigerator and consume it within a few days.
And now that I've made it, how do I use it? Don't panic and try these recipes: Sacher Torte, apricot jam tart, sweet crepes, Linzer cookies, and butter cookies with jam... these are just some ideas, let your imagination run wild!

