name:
Gnocchi with Zucchini Cream
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste- for dusting
Zucchini: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Fresh scallion: 1
Mint: 8leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- (to grate)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Thursday gnocchi , goes the saying... and we add: also on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday to try them in all versions! Like the one we propose today, gnocchi with zucchini cream, a first course perfect for spring. The handmade potato gnocchi are wrapped in a velvety sauce made by blending both the flesh and peel of the zucchini, resulting in a bright green color. The addition of mint leaves gives a fresh and delicate aroma, as well as an original touch of sophistication! Have you already decided on which day of the week you will enjoy these gnocchi with zucchini cream?
Discover other creamy gnocchi recipes:

Discover more delicious Gnocchi recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make gnocchi with zucchini cream, first wash the potatoes and put them in a pot with cold water, then bring to a boil and cook for about 30-40 minutes (cooking time may vary depending on size) . Meanwhile, sift the flour onto a work surface and form a well . When cooked, mash the hot potatoes over the flour .
Add the egg and salt , then quickly knead with your hands .
You should get a soft but not sticky dough . Take a portion of dough at a time, keeping the remaining dough covered , and form it into logs .
Cut the logs into pieces with a dough scraper , then roll each piece over a gnocchi board to form the classic grooves (alternatively, you can use the tines of a fork) . Place the gnocchi on a tray lined with a cloth dusted with a little semolina flour .
Bring a pot of salted water to a boil to cook the gnocchi and focus on the zucchini cream: wash and trim the zucchini , then peel them with a vegetable peeler . Transfer the peels to a bowl and add the mint leaves .
Season with oil , salt , and pepper. Mix, cover with plastic wrap, and let rest .
Cut the zucchini into irregular cubes , then clean and slice the scallion . Heat a drizzle of oil in a large pan, add the scallion , and sauté for 4-5 minutes.
Add the zucchini , a ladle of the gnocchi cooking water , and cook on low heat for about 10 minutes. Once cooked, transfer the zucchini to a beaker .
Start blending with an immersion blender, then add the marinated peels and continue blending until you get a smooth cream . Adjust the salt if necessary, and pour the obtained cream into the pan .
Now you can cook the gnocchi in 2-3 batches, ensuring the water doesn't boil too vigorously to prevent them from breaking . As soon as they float to the surface, scoop the gnocchi with a slotted spoon and transfer them to the pan with the zucchini cream .
After draining all the gnocchi, mix with the grated cheese and a drizzle of oil . Gently stir to combine the seasoning. Plate and finish with another drizzle of oil and a sprinkle of pepper. Your gnocchi with zucchini cream are ready to be served !
It is recommended to serve the gnocchi with zucchini cream immediately.
The zucchini cream can be prepared in advance and stored in the refrigerator for one day. The gnocchi can be made 2-3 hours in advance and kept at room temperature dusted with semolina flour.
You can freeze the gnocchi before cooking by spacing them out on a tray and then transferring them to freezer bags. When ready to cook, drop them into boiling water directly from frozen: be careful to cook a few at a time, or the water temperature will drop and the gnocchi will dissolve.
If desired, you can mix the gnocchi with zucchini cream with Pecorino or Gorgonzola for a stronger flavor!
You can also add nuts such as walnuts, hazelnuts, or almonds for a crunchy note.

