name:
Artichoke Parmigiana
ingredients:
Purple artichokes: 8- to clean
Garlic: 2cloves
Fine salt: to taste
Fior di latte mozzarella cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Artichoke parmigiana is a tasty variant of the classic eggplant parmigiana , where the new protagonist is this appetizing flower of the earth, hiding delicate flavor with bitter notes under its thorny armor, but it's more versatile than you might think. Here you'll find a white version of parmigiana, that is, without tomato, with alternating layers of sautéed artichokes and melted cheeses. A vegetarian dish with character that you can easily include in your Easter menu. Serve it as an Easter appetizer, a tasty side dish, or maybe as a main course... artichoke parmigiana will give you a "poetry" of flavors!
Discover more recipes with artichokes:
To prepare artichoke parmigiana, shred the fiordilatte in a colander , so it loses its whey. Cover with plastic wrap and let it sit for half an hour. Meanwhile, clean the artichokes by removing the outer, tougher leaves .
Peel the stem (shorten it if it is very long) and cut off the tips . Cut them in half and remove the choke .
Slice them into fairly thick slices ( just under 1/3 inch ) and place the cut artichokes in acidulated water to prevent them from browning. Sauté a splash of oil with crushed garlic in a pan . Then add the artichokes .
Salt them and first brown them over high heat. When they are flavored and start to color, lower the heat, cover with a lid and continue cooking for about 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. It will not be necessary to add water since the artichokes will cook in their own moisture. If you open the lid too often or do not cover them at all, it will take longer and you might need to add water occasionally. Once ready, set the cooked artichokes aside .
Cut the scamorza into thin slices . Place a generous third of the artichokes on the bottom of a 7 x 9 1/2 inch baking dish , and cover with the scamorza .
Add a generous third of the fiordilatte , and do the same with the Grana Padano PDO and some basil leaves , season with pepper to taste .
Repeat with a second identical layer: artichokes and cheeses . Then make a final layer with fewer artichokes and add the remaining cheeses without completely covering the wedges.
Press lightly with your hands and finish with a splash of oil and a grind of pepper. Bake in a static oven at 355°F for 25 minutes, then broil for a few minutes (the time depends on the grill's temperature, from 2 to 5 minutes for a nice golden color) . Let the artichoke parmigiana set for a few minutes before serving with fresh basil leaves .
Artichoke parmigiana can be stored in the refrigerator for about 3 days. You can freeze it after cooking and letting it cool.
Instead of stracciatella and provola, you can use brie, caciotta, or fontina. You can make the parmigiana with any variety of artichokes.

