name:
Peach Upside-Down Cake
ingredients:
Nectarines: 5
Type 00 flour: 1 ⅔cup(200 g)
Sugar: ½cup(120 g)
Butter: 100g(100 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Baking powder: 1tbsp(16 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1pinch
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Butter: to taste
Sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The peach upside-down cake is perfect to prepare during the summer when the season gives us juicy and ripe nectarines. The characteristic of this delicious dessert lies in its upside-down baking: the decoration made of caramelized fruit is placed at the base of the mold and will reveal its true appearance only at the end, when the cake is unmolded and turned upside down! The preparation mirrors that of the tarte tatin , the famous French apple dessert, but in this case, the shortcrust pastry is replaced by a soft batter made of eggs, butter, and sugar. A technique that can also be used with other types of fruit to create delicious variations. If you liked the peach upside-down cake, we definitely recommend trying:
To make the peach upside-down cake, first prepare the batter: melt the butter in a small saucepan and let it cool. In a large bowl, pour the eggs, vanilla extract , and salt . Start beating with an electric mixer, then add the sugar . Continue working until you get a frothy mixture.
Now, gradually pour in the cooled melted butter while keeping the mixer running . In a separate bowl, mix the flour and baking powder , then gradually add the dry ingredients to the mixture .
Continue working until you get a smooth and homogeneous batter . Set aside and take care of the peaches: wash and halve them , then remove the pit .
To prepare the caramel, pour the sugar into a thick-bottomed pan and let it melt over very low heat without touching it . When it reaches a nice amber color, add the butter and stir with a spoon .
Place the peaches in the pan so that the cut side is in contact with the caramel and leave them like this for a minute, then turn off the heat . Meanwhile, butter and sprinkle with sugar a cake pan with a diameter of 8 1/2 inches at the base and 9 1/2 inches at the top .
Take the peaches from the pan and transfer them to the cake pan, still with the cut side down . Stir the remaining caramel in the pan and pour it over the peaches .
Finally, pour the batter and level the surface with a spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 45 minutes .
After this time, check the cooking with a toothpick and take it out of the oven . Immediately unmold the cake by turning it upside down onto a serving plate, being careful not to burn yourself . Let it cool slightly and serve your delicious peach upside-down cake, accompanied if desired with a scoop of vanilla ice cream !
The peach upside-down cake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
It is important to unmold the cake immediately after baking; otherwise, the caramel tends to harden and stick to the base.
If you have an oven-safe pan, you can avoid transferring the peaches to the mold.
Also try the peach and amaretti upside-down cake recipe for an even more delicious version!

