name:
Stuffed Squid in a Pan
ingredients:
Calamari (squid): 2.2lbs(1 kg)- to clean
White bread loaf: 8.8oz(250 g)
Parsley: 2tufts
Garlic: 2cloves
White wine: 1.2oz(35 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: to taste
Salted capers: 1.8tbsp(25 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Peeled tomatoes: 28.2oz(800 g)
Lemon peel: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
If we were to rank the best squid recipes, these pan-fried stuffed squid would definitely take the top spot! Loved in all their variants, stuffed squid are timeless second courses of fish, to be enjoyed plain, accompanied by a small salad, but also delicious in this saucy version flavored by the natural salinity of capers and the pleasantly spicy notes of fresh chili pepper. For the filling? It can be made with leftover bread at home and the squid's own tentacles! Soft and flavorful, prepared without turning on the oven: a true success at the table!
Don't miss out on other delicious squid recipes to make at home:
To prepare the stuffed squid in a pan, chop the parsley and cut the bread into small cubes (it will be used for the filling) . Slice the chili pepper lengthwise .
In a pan, heat a small amount of oil with the garlic, sliced chili pepper, and parsley stems . Add the peeled tomatoes , capers (previously desalinated) , and let cook for 40 minutes on low heat; adjust the salt during cooking.
Meanwhile, clean the squid: remove the innards and the eyes from the tentacles. Keep the skin and fins, while coarsely chopping the tentacles . In a pan, heat some oil and sear the tentacles on a very high flame .
Add the bread, stirring frequently to flavor . Pour the mixture into the mixer .
Season with parsley , salt, and lemon zest , blend everything to obtain crumbs .
Stuff the squid, leaving about 3/4 of an inch from the edge , and seal with a toothpick to prevent the filling from escaping during cooking . Heat some oil in a pan and sear the squid on high flame , trying to turn them on all sides, using tongs.
Deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate . Meanwhile, the sauce will be ready, remove the garlic, chili pepper, and parsley stems .
Transfer the squid to the sauce . Let them flavor just 1-2 minutes and serve the stuffed squid in a pan hot .
The stuffed squid in a pan can be stored for 1 day in the fridge. You can freeze them if you have used fresh ingredients.
To make the sauce more tantalizing, add some olives during cooking. If you don't like chili pepper, you can omit it, although, once sliced, the spiciness will be less intense.

