name:
Crepe Roll with Asparagus and Spinach
ingredients:
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 3
Butter: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Butter: to taste- to grease the pan
Asparagus: 0.9lb(400 g)- (to clean)
Spinach: 10.6oz(300 g)
Leeks: 5.3oz(150 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(500 g)
Lemon peel: to taste
Thyme: to taste- fresh
Taleggio cheese: 7.1oz(200 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- to grate
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + chilling time in the refrigerator (40 min.)

instructions:
Spring has arrived and it must be celebrated properly... let's do it with a rich dish based on vegetables and cheese: the crepe roll with asparagus and spinach! We replaced fresh pasta with slightly thicker crepes , ideal for wrapping the soft filling of asparagus, leeks and spinach enriched with ricotta and taleggio cheese. The roll will then be sliced to obtain swirl pieces to gratinate in the oven. A tasty and original idea that will satisfy everyone's appetite, perfect for bringing the family together at the table for Sunday lunch or festive meals. With the crepe roll with asparagus and spinach, the arrival of the beautiful season has never been so delicious!
Also try these variations:
To make the crepe roll with asparagus and spinach, first prepare the crepe batter: melt 3 tbsp of butter in a saucepan (or in the microwave) and let it cool, meanwhile beat the eggs in a bowl . Add the milk and mix with a whisk, then pour in the melted butter and mix again.
Sift the flour into the bowl and mix thoroughly to avoid lumps . Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes .
Meanwhile, prepare the vegetables for the filling: remove the tougher part of the asparagus stalks by snapping them with your hands , then cut them into slices . Clean and thinly slice the leek .
In a large pan, sauté the oil with a clove of garlic, then add the asparagus . Salt, pepper and sauté for 5 minutes over medium-high heat, then add the leeks .
After 5 minutes, add the spinach as well , lower the heat, cover with a lid and cook for a few more minutes. When the spinach is wilted, remove the garlic and set aside.
After the resting time, take the batter out of the refrigerator and cook the crepes: heat a large non-stick pan and grease it, then pour a couple of ladles of batter in the center . Rotate the pan so that the batter spreads evenly over the entire surface and cook for about 2 minutes over medium-low heat. When the edges start to lift , gently flip the crepe with a spatula and cook for another 2 minutes on the other side. As the crepes are ready, stack them on a tray and set aside ; with these quantities, you should get 8 crepes about 1/6 of an inch thick , with a diameter of about 7 inches.
Move on to the ricotta cream: mash the ricotta with a fork in a bowl , then flavor with thyme and grated lemon zest . Mix well and set aside.
You are ready to assemble the crepe roll: spread 2 sheets of plastic wrap on the work surface, slightly overlapping them. Place the crepes on the plastic wrap, overlapping them to form a sort of rectangle . Spread the ricotta over the entire surface, leaving the edges free . Distribute the vegetables over the ricotta layer .
Finally, add the taleggio cheese in small pieces . Now start rolling the crepe rectangle from the shorter side, using the plastic wrap to help you and tightening it as much as possible . Fold the ends and seal the obtained roll , then place it in the refrigerator for at least 40 minutes.
After the firming time, remove the plastic wrap and cut the roll into slices about 1 1/4 inches thick ; you should get about 12 slices. Arrange the slices side by side in one or more baking trays, then sprinkle with grated pecorino cheese and thyme leaves .
Finally, add some butter flakes and bake in a preheated static oven at 430°F for 15 minutes, then turn on the grill and continue cooking for another 5 minutes . When the surface is nicely gratinated, take it out of the oven and serve your crepe roll with asparagus and spinach !
The cooked crepe roll with asparagus and spinach can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
The crepe batter can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 12 hours.
The crepes can be cooked in advance and stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days, covered with plastic wrap.
It is advisable not to assemble the roll too far in advance as the filling might make the crepes too moist. It is preferable to cook it in advance and then reheat it when serving.
You can customize the filling with your preferred seasonal vegetables!
If you don't like taleggio, you can replace it with another creamy and flavorful cheese, such as brie.

