name:
Apricot and Ricotta Cake
ingredients:
Apricots: 14oz(400 g)- ripe
Type 00 flour: 1.4cups(170 g)
Potato starch: 2.1tbsp(30 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Brown sugar: 0.8cup(160 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Eggs: 3- room temperature
Baking powder: 1.1tbsp(16 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Even in summer, treat yourself to a soft and delicious dessert like this apricot and ricotta cake! We’ve already tried apricots in sweets, but this cake will surprise you once again: it's perfect to enjoy for breakfast with iced tea or fruit juice! Compared to the Apricot Cake , this is a butter-free cake. We preferred seed oil combined with the batter enriched with ricotta for an extremely soft result. If you have an abundance of apricots, also prepare:
To prepare the apricot and ricotta cake, sieve the ricotta through a sieve to obtain a smooth cream without lumps . In a bowl, break the eggs and add the vanilla extract .
Beat the eggs with electric beaters at medium-high speed, gradually adding the sugar . This will take about 10 minutes. Once you have a light and frothy mixture, incorporate the ricotta, one tablespoon at a time . Sift the flour and baking powder separately ,
Gradually pour in the oil , then add the dry ingredients little by little to the batter, keeping the beaters running at low speed . Wash and dry the apricots: you will need 4 for decoration, from which you will obtain 12 wedges in total .
Cut the remaining apricots into cubes and immerse them in the batter . Transfer the mixture into a 20 cm (7 7/8 inches) buttered and floured mold .
Arrange the apricot slices on the surface to create a sunburst pattern and bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for about 70 minutes. The apricot and ricotta cake is ready , let it cool slightly, then remove it from the mold and serve it dusted with powdered sugar.
Store the cake under a glass dome in a cool place for 2-3 days. You can freeze it in portions after baking.
If the ricotta you purchased has a lot of whey, let it drain for an hour before sieving it.

