name:
Bechamel Sauce Without Butter
ingredients:
Vegetable oil: 6tbsp(90 g)
Type 00 flour: 3cups(100 g)
Partly skim milk: 4cups(1 l)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
It's Sunday, all supermarkets are closed and you didn't realize you ran out of butter? If you had promised a steaming dish of lasagna or a Baked pasta with fennel and béchamel to your family and don't want to give up adding bechamel, no worries! Thanks to this recipe, you can make a bechamel without butter, simply using some vegetable oil! This way, you can enjoy all the goodness of bechamel, you'll get a truly delicate sauce and nobody will notice the difference! Whether it's for a lifestyle choice or due to a lack of butter, let yourself be won over by this creamy butter-free bechamel and use it to enrich your best Sunday dishes: lasagna, cannelloni, and tasty side dishes ! If you have intolerance issues, try making the perfect homemade bechamel, in the gluten-free version or the vegan bechamel !
To make the Bechamel Sauce Without Butter , first pour the milk into a saucepan and bring it to just below boiling, adding a pinch of salt and a grating of nutmeg . Meanwhile, pour the vegetable oil into another saucepan, let it warm up over low heat
then to the warmed oil, add the flour gradually , stirring quickly with a whisk to prevent lumps from forming . Let the mixture turn golden brown ,
then add the now warm milk to the flour and oil mixture and continue to cook, constantly stirring with the whisk until it begins to boil. Once the desired thickness is reached, transfer your butter-free bechamel into a small bowl and cover with cling film touching the surface until ready to use!
The Bechamel Sauce Without Butter can be stored for 2 days in the refrigerator, in an airtight container!
It can be frozen for about 1 month.
Keep in mind that once cooled, the bechamel will be more solid compared to when it was hot. If you need to obtain a more liquid bechamel, just decrease the amount of flour!
We chose vegetable oil to achieve a bechamel with a delicate flavor, but if you prefer, you can also use olive oil as in the recipe for Spring crepes !

