name:
Limoncello cream
ingredients:
Lemon peel: 5- (untreated) from the Coast
Pure alcohol: 17.6oz(500 g)- at 95°
Whole milk: 1.7cups(400 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Sugar: 1.7cups(400 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 1 month of resting

instructions:
The perfect way to end your meal with a fresh and delicious note when dining with friends? Without a doubt, limoncello cream, a tempting variant of limoncello , the homemade liquor par excellence that always pleases everyone with its enveloping and aromatic taste. Limoncello cream offers an enticing new take on this famous digestive, which has become a true symbol of conviviality, beloved for its unmistakable flavor and its ability to refresh the palate. A velvety creamy liquor that, once poured into small glasses, will release the most intense aroma of these precious and golden citrus fruits. Moreover, limoncello cream can become a delightful DIY gift to bring to your friends and family: choose carefully decorated or uniquely shaped bottles, and we're sure you'll make a great impression! A heartfelt and handmade token that will surely be appreciated and remembered.
Also try these variants:

To prepare the limoncello cream, first carefully wash the lemons (if they have any impurities, you can remove them with a scrubber). Peel the lemons with a vegetable peeler , being careful to avoid the white part, which is more bitter. Place the peels in a jar with a hinged lid and cover with the alcohol .
Let it macerate in a cool, dark place for 10 days, shaking the jar 1-2 times a day . After the maceration period, heat cream, milk , and sugar in a saucepan .
Stir often and wait for it to come close to a boil , the sugar should dissolve uniformly . Transfer the resulting cream to a bowl and let it cool completely.
Strain the alcohol and lemon peels through a sieve and collect the aromatic liquid .
Now combine the flavored liquor with the well-cooled cream of cream and milk , then stir to mix . Pour into appropriate bottles and let it sit in the refrigerator for at least 15-20 days before consuming your limoncello cream!
Limoncello cream can be stored for about 3 months in the freezer or refrigerator. Don't worry if the creamy part tends to separate from the alcoholic part, just shake the bottle well before serving.
Limoncello cream can be enjoyed on its own as an after-dinner digestif, or added to crushed ice to create a sort of granita, to enrich an ice cream cup, or even to flavor the cream for cake fillings!
The lemon pulp can be used to make lemonade or a lemon jam without peel . You can also squeeze it and store it in the freezer in ice cube bags.

