name:
Chickpea Falafel
ingredients:
Dried chickpeas: 1lb(500 g)
Onions: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1bunch
Cumin: 1pinch
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: 1pinch
Peanut seed oil: 4cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 50 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + soaking time for the chickpeas (at least 12 h) and resting time for the mixture (at least 1 h in the fridge)

instructions:
Just saying falafel makes some think of spice-scented alleys and colorful market atmospheres in the Middle East echoing with voices. For others, it brings back nostalgic memories of steaming hot packages bought at the Doner Kebab late at night during university days, when we were students living away from home, always hungry and with an empty fridge. Whatever your story, with this recipe you can relive it in your own kitchen: fail-proof, golden, and crispy falafel! These traditional chickpea patties with a spiced flavor are great to serve for an ethnic aperitif, accompanied by hummus or a simple yogurt sauce, or as a vegetarian appetizer for a dinner among friends, but they will also be perfect for a party buffet or a street food style meal inside the classic Pita ... we are sure that in any case, they will delight your palates and brighten your evenings! Are you ready to prepare them with us? Falafel: here is our version!
Try also these tasty variations:
To prepare the falafel, start the night before by soaking the dry chickpeas in cold water for at least 12 hours . After the soaking time, drain the chickpeas and rinse them, then dry them thoroughly with a clean cloth: they must be perfectly dry at the time of use to ensure a mixture of the right consistency (for safety, you can further dry them for 10 minutes in a ventilated oven preheated to 210°F). At this point, put the chickpeas in a food processor .
Chop the onion into coarse pieces and add it to the food processor along with the crushed or squeezed garlic clove .
Season with salt, pepper , and cumin . Turn on the food processor to chop all the ingredients .
Chop the parsley separately and add it to the mixture: it is important not to mince it directly in the food processor because it would release too much water, compromising the consistency of the mixture . Blend again to mix everything together, then transfer the obtained mixture into an oven dish and compact it with the back of a spoon or a spatula . Cover with cling film and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least an hour.
After this time, shape the falafel with the special tool and place them gradually on a tray lined with parchment paper . Alternatively, you can shape the falafel by hand: take small portions of the mixture and slightly flatten them between the palms of your hands, making sure to compact them very well. Proceed in this way until all the falafel are formed; with these quantities, you will get about fifty .
You are ready to fry: heat the vegetable oil in a pot until it reaches 340°F and fry a few falafel at a time, using a slotted spoon . As soon as they are nicely golden, drain them and transfer to paper towels . Serve your falafel while still hot !
It is recommended to consume the falafel as soon as they are ready.
The raw falafel can be stored in the refrigerator for 4-5 days, covered with cling film. Alternatively, you can freeze them for about a month.
Those who enjoy its flavor can use fresh cilantro instead of parsley, as the traditional recipe calls for.
If you wish, you can flavor the mixture by adding other spices of your liking, such as turmeric and chili pepper for example!
Looking for ideas on how to serve them for an aperitif? Check out our recipe for falafel with quick hummus and yogurt sauce !
If you prefer using precooked chickpeas, try the chickpea nuggets recipe.

