name:
Quiche Lorraine
ingredients:
Butter: 4.4oz(125 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 1.8oz(52 g)- approximately 1 medium
Coarse salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2cups(450 g)
Pancetta tesa: 7oz(200 g)- dolce (sweet)
Gruyere cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Eggs: 5.8oz(165 g)- about 3 medium
Egg yolks: 0.6oz(18 g)- approximately 1 medium
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
Are you ready to take a trip to France? But we're not going to talk to you about the tarte tatin or a classic omelette ! No, because we have something more special in mind! We're talking about the very famous quiche Lorraine, the mother of all savory pies . Thanks to a crust, that is, a base made of Savory shortcrust pastry or, if you prefer, brisée , a versatile cream made of cream and eggs, and a rich filling of bacon and gruyere, the game, or rather the recipe, is made! Due to its deliciousness, it is not so difficult to come across a slice of quiche Lorraine around the world. Think about it, its fame is almost comparable to that of the family club sandwich, and today, thanks to the recipe from GialloZafferano, you can bring a bit of Lorraine cuisine directly to your home. Today, we're baking the quiche Lorraine together!
To prepare the quiche Lorraine, start with the basic crust, that is, the savory shortcrust pastry. In the mixer, pour the flour, the cold butter in pieces , the coarse salt , the egg , and activate the blades until you get crumbs.
Transfer it onto the work surface , knead quickly and obtain a dough ball . Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it firm up in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour .
In the meantime, take care of the bacon. Remove the rind and cut it into slices, then into strips and finally into pieces about 1/2 inch thick . Blanch them for 50 seconds in boiling water ,
drain and let cool . Then remove the crust from the cheese and grate it with a coarse grater .
Pour the cream into a bowl, add the eggs, the yolk , the salt, the pepper, and grate a pinch of nutmeg . Beat briefly with a fork and set aside .
Butter a 10 inches fluted ceramic pie dish and then preheat the oven. You have everything you need: on a lightly floured pastry board, tap the shortcrust pastry with the rolling pin for a moment , then roll it out to about 1/8-1/6 inch thick . Dust it with a pinch of flour again and then roll it around the rolling pin, finally unroll it into the dish .
Press down to make the pastry adhere well and then trim the excess with a knife . Prick the base with the tines of a fork
and pour ¾ of the grated cheese . Then the bacon , the cream mixture
and sprinkle with the remaining cheese . Bake the quiche Lorraine in a static oven at 355°F for about 50-60 minutes . All you have to do is wait a few minutes before serving it !
Once ready, the Quiche Lorraine can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, covered with plastic wrap. If desired, it can also be frozen once cooked. Once all the preparations are done, it is not possible to store it, so the quiche must be baked.
In some older versions, the Quiche Lorraine did not include the addition of gruyere cheese, but over the years this variant, which took the name of quiche vosgienne, has become so widespread that it seems to have become the official one. There are also many variations of this quiche, some for example suggest pan-searing the bacon, instead of blanching it, to ensure a more flavorful and crispy result. Or the addition of onions, first sautéed in a pan. So, it's a bit up to your imagination to find the version you prefer!

