name:
Shrimp and Zucchini Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Shrimps: 1lb(450 g)- (to clean)
Zucchini: 1.5lbs(300 g)
White onions: 3oz(80 g)
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: 2.375oz(70 g)
Chives: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Carrots: 1cup(100 g)
White onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Celery: 0.8cup(80 g)
Water: 8 ½cups(1.5 l)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- cold
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
If you're looking for a comforting and creamy first course, you will undoubtedly choose a good risotto! Meat, fish, and vegetables will serve your imagination to enrich these versatile grains. With the shrimp and zucchini risotto we offer you a timeless and appetizing combination, already tried in other versions, such as the recipe for Venus rice with shrimp and zucchini .
The use of shellfish broth made with shrimp scraps will further enhance the fish flavor, and the traditional creaming will guarantee the characteristic wave effect that is essential in risottos. If the shrimp and zucchini risotto has intrigued you, you absolutely must try the gourmet version of the risotto with zucchini cream and raw shrimp , perfect for more important occasions!
Also check out these tasty variants of shrimp risotto :
To prepare the shrimp and zucchini risotto, start with the cleaning of the shrimp : remove the head , shell, and legs (keeping everything aside) , then remove the intestine by pulling out the black thread .
Set aside the cleaned shrimp tails (better if covered with a damp towel). Meanwhile, roughly chop the celery, carrot, and onion . Briefly sauté the vegetables in oil , then add the shrimp scraps .
Toast for a few minutes over high heat . Add the water , salt, and let it simmer gently for about an hour: during cooking, skim off the impurities that rise to the surface .
At the end of cooking, strain the broth and keep it warm. Meanwhile, peel the onions and finely chop them . Trim the zucchini and cut them into 1-inch pieces .
In a saucepan, pour the oil and let the chopped onion sauté for 1 minute over low heat , then increase the heat, add the zucchini and sauté for about 5 minutes . Meanwhile, also cut the shrimp tails into 1-inch pieces .
At this point, add the shrimp and continue cooking for a minute , then transfer everything to a bowl. In the same saucepan, add the rice and toast it, stirring often. When the grains are hot to the touch, deglaze with the white wine and let it evaporate.
Cook the rice by adding one ladle of hot broth at a time . Remember to stir occasionally and always wait for the liquid to be absorbed before pouring more . When there are a couple of minutes left before the end of cooking, add the shrimp and zucchini and stir.
Once the rice is cooked, turn off the heat and stir in the butter and Parmesan , season with pepper and stir .
Cover with a lid and let it rest for a couple of minutes. Finally, flavor the risotto with finely chopped chives . Your shrimp and zucchini risotto is ready to be served !
We recommend consuming the shrimp and zucchini risotto immediately; if you have leftovers, you can store it in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day.
Freezing is not recommended.
Try adding saffron threads to your shrimp and zucchini risotto, they will give the dish a touch of color and flavor!
If you want to give it a burst of flavor, replace the Parmesan with pecorino romano.
Instead of chives, you can season with mint or basil leaves.

