name:
Almond Chicken
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 7oz(200 g)
Egg whites: ½
Peanut seed oil: 1tsp(5 g)- (or sunflower)
Water: 0.7oz(20 g)
Potato starch: 1tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Peeled almonds: 1tbsp(20 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Bamboo shoots: 2.8oz(80 g)- canned
Peanut seed oil: 1tbsp(15 g)- (or sunflower)
Water: 3.2oz(95 g)
Soy sauce: 2tsp- light
Soy sauce: 1tsp- dark
Potato starch: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
Typical of the home cooking of Guangdong, almond chicken is a widely appreciated recipe all over the world that is always present in the menus of Chinese restaurants! Following the step-by-step instructions by Chef Mulan , you will discover how to achieve the right creaminess while keeping the meat soft and succulent, just like the original. Serve the almond chicken accompanied by white rice and delve into the wonderful world of Chinese cuisine with other must-try recipes of Gong Bao Chicken , steamed dumplings , spring rolls , Cantonese rice , soy spaghetti and Fried ice cream !
Discover more delicious Asian recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare almond chicken, first cut the bamboo shoots into fairly small cubes . Also dice the chicken breast, making sure they are the same size as the bamboo . Now put the chicken in a colander and rinse it with some water: this way it will be softer .
Transfer the chicken to a bowl and add half an egg white , salt, white pepper , and vegetable oil .
Also add the water and potato starch and mix well ; alternatively, you can massage the chicken with your hands. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let the chicken rest for 10 minutes so it absorbs the flavors of the marinade .
In the meantime, heat plenty of vegetable oil in a wok making sure it reaches 355°F otherwise the almonds might burn. Plunge the almonds into the boiling oil and fry for about a minute, stirring often. Drain the almonds and transfer them to a bowl .
Bring a pot of water to a boil and blanch the chicken for 2 minutes , then drain and set aside . Change the water and bring it to a boil again, then pour in the bamboo shoots .
Cook the bamboo shoots for 5 minutes over medium heat, with the lid on , then drain and set aside . Now you can assemble all the ingredients: heat the previously cleaned wok, then add the vegetable oil and the chicken .
Also add the bamboo shoots and stir for a minute on high heat , then pour in the water, continuing to stir .
Add the salt , dark and light soy sauce . Continue stirring and, when the color has become even, also add the almonds . Mix everything together and turn off the heat.
In a separate small bowl, dissolve the potato starch in a small amount of water. Put the wok back on medium heat and add the starch mixture : this will create a very creamy consistency. Keep stirring to blend everything well together and serve. Your almond chicken is ready to be served accompanied by basmati rice !
Almond chicken can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, in an airtight container.
The authentic recipe for almond chicken includes bamboo shoots, available in ethnic grocery stores and well-stocked supermarkets, but if you can't find them it will still be delicious without!
Why two different types of soy sauce? The dark one is for color, while the light one is for flavor. After soy sauce, you can also add a teaspoon of vegetable oil that will give the dish a bright color.
You can use either peanut or sunflower oil, depending on your taste.
If you liked this recipe for cooking chicken, also try the variant of almond chicken and bacon or another classic of Chinese cuisine: the sweet and sour chicken !
Chef Mulan of Mulan Group , the Zhang family's company that has been operating in Chinese gastronomy for over twenty years: iconic dishes and many delicacies made as they would be at home. This is what makes them unique: an artisanal production that combines the genuineness of a homemade meal and the authenticity of tradition. The attention dedicated to manual processing is perceived in the natural taste and in the quality of the details. From the method of sealing Chinese dumplings, to the meticulous cooking processes of traditional ingredients, everything is made according to the ancient oriental culinary art.

