name:
Soy Spaghetti
ingredients:
Soy spaghetti pasta: 7oz(200 g)
Zucchini: 3.5oz(100 g)
Carrots: 2.1oz(60 g)
Red peppers: 0.7oz(20 g)
White onions: 1tbsp(20 g)
Water: 1.1cups(250 g)
Soy sauce: 2tsp
Peanut seed oil: 1tsp
Sesame oil: 1tsp
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: 4tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes of soaking for the soy spaghetti

instructions:
Soy spaghetti can be cooked in many different ways: Oriental-style , Rice noodles with meat and vegetables or shrimp . Here we propose the vegetarian version, one of the most loved, with stir-fried vegetables... actually, in a wok, alongside the stir-fried soy spaghetti with meat! Thanks to the guidance of the chefs from Mulan , experts in Chinese cuisine, we will discover how to make in a few steps a dish of noodles with a true Oriental flavor , enriched with carrots, zucchini, peppers, and onions, in addition to the indispensable soy sauce and the special touch of sesame oil. Soy spaghetti is a tasty and balanced alternative to pasta and rice, gluten-free and lactose-free, so easy to prepare that you will very often want to include it in your menus... perhaps together with other Chinese delicacies:
Discover more delicious Asian recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the soy spaghetti, first soak them in lukewarm water for 30 minutes , then drain and cut them with a pair of scissors if they are too long .
In the meantime, peel and cut into strips the onions , the peppers , and the zucchini .
Do the same with the carrots . Heat the wok over high heat, then pour in the oil and the onions and sauté for a minute. When the onions are golden, add the peppers and the carrots .
Add the zucchini , stir and sauté for a minute. At this point, pour in the water and the soy spaghetti .
Season with light soy sauce and dark soy sauce , then salt and pepper . Mix everything and cook for about 5 minutes on high heat, until the water has been absorbed. After this time, season with sesame oil, which will give the dish a particular aroma .
Finally, add the oil, which will make the color bright . Give it one last stir and serve your delicious soy spaghetti !
It is best to enjoy the soy spaghetti immediately after it's prepared.
Try to cut the vegetables as thinly as possible... theoretically, they should have the same thickness as the soy spaghetti!
Why two different types of soy sauce? The dark one is used to give color, while the light one adds flavor. The sesame oil added at the end of the preparation is used to scent the dish, while the oil makes the color bright.
The oil can be either peanut or sunflower, according to your preferences.
The Chefs from Mulan Group , the Zhang family's company that has been operating in Chinese gastronomy for over twenty years: iconic dishes and many delicacies made as they would be at home. This makes them unique: an artisanal production that combines the genuineness of a homemade meal and the authenticity of tradition. The attention to manual processing is perceived in the natural taste and in the quality of the details. From the method of sealing Chinese dumplings, to the meticulous processes of cooking traditional ingredients, all made according to the ancient Oriental culinary art.

