name:
Pan-fried cod fillet
ingredients:
Cod fillet: 21.2oz(600 g)- (4 fillets)
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(30 g)
Clarified butter: 2.8oz(80 g)
Type 00 flour: 2oz(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: 2tsp(10 g)- to be chopped
Water: ⅔cup(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Do you think cod is just a dish for kids? After trying our crispy pan-fried cod fillet , and also the simple pan-fried cod fillet... you'll definitely change your mind! A fragrant crust envelops the tender and delicate flesh of the cod, which once cooked will be enhanced by a creamy parsley-flavored sauce and a sprinkle of toasted pine nuts. Just a few ingredients and minutes to make a perfect fish course for the whole family! Try pairing it with a fresh salad, some roasted vegetables , or Zucchini in Carpione , which with their slightly tart flavor will enhance the delicacy of this fish! And if you want ideas for a complete menu, you might serve the pan-fried cod fillet after enjoying some delicious Maltagliati with Fish Ragù !
To prepare the pan-fried cod fillet, first toast the pine nuts over moderate heat for 2-3 minutes until they are nicely golden; then set them aside. Meanwhile, also chop the parsley , which will be used later. Pour the clarified butter into a pan and let it melt over low heat .
In the meantime, pour the flour into a baking dish, season with salt and pepper . When the butter is completely melted, start flouring the cod fillets , turn up the heat and lay them in the pan .
Proceed quickly to bread the other fillets and as you go, arrange them in the pan . Let them cook for a couple of minutes on high heat, in order to get a golden crust, then flip the fillets with a kitchen spatula and continue cooking for another 2 minutes. Then transfer the cod fillets to a plate and keep them warm .
In the same pan where you just cooked the cod, pour the 2/3 cup of water , and let it cook on high heat for a few seconds until a creamy sauce is obtained; then add the chopped parsley , mix everything and season with salt and pepper . Let the water evaporate completely: it will take about 4-5 minutes.
At this point, transfer the fillets to a serving plate ; then with a spoon, take the sauce from the pan and place it on the fillets. Finish with the toasted pine nuts and your pan-fried cod fillet is ready to be served while still hot .
Store the pan-fried cod fillet in the refrigerator for 1-2 days at most, well covered. If you have used all fresh ingredients it is possible to freeze, adding the toasted pine nuts only when serving.
We recommend using only fresh cod fillets, not thawed ones to prevent them from flaking during cooking. Moreover, to achieve a crispy crust, it is preferable to use clarified butter as indicated; if you cannot find it, use the same amount of regular butter and add 2-3 tablespoons of olive oil: this way you will prevent it from burning. For an even crispier breading, try breading the fillets with corn flour, or add a few tablespoons of breadcrumbs to the all-purpose flour!

