name:
Asparagus Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Asparagus: 1.65lbs(750 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Shallot: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Carrots: 2
Celery: 1rib
Onions: 1
Water: 8 ½cups(2 l)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Asparagus risotto is one of our favorite springtime dishes! Simple and genuine, it's the perfect recipe to enhance the delicate and unmistakable flavor of these delicious seasonal vegetables. The asparagus is used in all its parts: the stems cut into rounds enrich the risotto , while the tips are transformed into a creamy puree added during the stirring process for a perfectly wavy result. The tougher part of the stems is also used to prepare the vegetable broth, a smart and knowledgeable way to recycle the scraps that will give an even more intense and aromatic taste!
Try also these asparagus risotto variations:

To prepare asparagus risotto, start with cleaning the asparagus: detach with your hands the hardest part of the asparagus, which you will use for the broth . Cut the tips of the asparagus that will be used to garnish the risotto and slice the rest of the asparagus into fine rounds .
Wash the vegetables for the broth, then roughly chop the celery , the carrots , and the onion .
Prepare the broth: put the vegetables in a pot , also add the hard asparagus stems you set aside . Cover with water and, starting with cold water, cook for at least half an hour from when it starts boiling. Clean and finely chop the shallot .
Saute for a few minutes with a drizzle of oil , add half of your asparagus rounds , cook for a couple of minutes stirring occasionally, season with salt and cover with a ladle of broth .
Now let it cook for about 5 minutes with the lid on . Then let it cool . Blanch the asparagus tips in salted water for a couple of minutes .
Cool them in ice water , so they maintain a vibrant color and stay crispy. Meanwhile, the asparagus rounds will have cooled down, blend them with 1/2 ounce of oil .
You will have a smooth and beautiful green cream . Now you have all the components to start cooking the risotto: in a wide saucepan heat a drizzle of oil . Toast the rice for 3-4 minutes adding a pinch of salt .
Moisten with the broth until it covers the rice and continue cooking, moistening as needed. About halfway through cooking, add the remaining rounds of asparagus and continue cooking the risotto, adjusting for salt if necessary. Set aside a couple of tablespoons of cream .
When 2-3 minutes are left to the cooking time of the risotto, add the rest of the cream . Once cooking is done let it rest covered for two minutes. Whip with butter , the grated cheese .
Add a grind of pepper, a drizzle of oil , and the remaining asparagus cream , stir vigorously. Serve the hot asparagus risotto garnishing the plates with the asparagus tips set aside .
Store the asparagus risotto in the refrigerator, in an airtight container for 2-3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
To understand how much of the asparagus stem to discard, simply bend the asparagus and it will break at the junction between the softer and the tougher part. If the stem appears very thick, it's advisable to peel it with a vegetable peeler to remove the tougher outer part.
We recommend blending the asparagus when cold so they don't darken.
Have leftover risotto? Gratinate it in the oven with some slices of provola cheese, you'll get a deliciously melty casserole!

