name:
Black Venus Rice with Shrimp and Zucchini
ingredients:
Black Venus rice: 1.3cups(250 g)- Parboiled
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Shrimps: 10.6oz(300 g)
Zucchini: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Lemons: 1- juice and zest
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Tabasco®: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 22 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note (cooking time may vary depending on the type of Black Venus rice used)

instructions:
Black goes with everything, even in the kitchen! We've already shown you with our Venus Rice and Swordfish Cups , and today we bring you another fresh and tantalizing dish: Black Venus Rice with Shrimp and Zucchini. This exotic whole grain rice, ebony in color and with a distinctive aroma reminiscent of freshly baked bread, is perfect for creating a visually stunning and delicious main course.
Juicy shrimp, seasoned with lemon, pepper, and Tabasco, combined with sautéed zucchini, make the perfect topping for this rice. The quick cooking of the shrimp allows their authentic flavors to shine through.
With Black Venus Rice with Shrimp and Zucchini, you'll serve a wholesome and appetizing dish that won't disappoint!
To prepare the Black Venus Rice with Shrimp and Zucchini, start by cooking the rice: fill a pot with plenty of water and bring it to a boil, pour the rice , salt and cook for about 15 minutes (we used parboiled black Venus rice; otherwise, follow the cooking instructions reported on the package of the black Venus rice you have chosen). In the meantime, wash and trim the zucchinis, then grate them with a grater with large holes .
In a skillet, heat the olive oil with the peeled garlic clove , add the grated zucchini, salt pepper, cook for about 5 minutes and then remove the garlic clove and set the vegetables aside. Now take care of cleaning the shrimp: remove the shell, or the outer shell ,
cut off the tail and split them in half lengthwise , remove the intestine, which is the dark filament found on the back . Place the cleaned shrimp in a bowl, drizzle them with olive oil
season them with grated lemon zest , salt and pepper and a few drops of tabasco. Sauté the shrimp in a very hot skillet for a couple of minutes , deglazing with lemon juice .
As soon as the shrimp have browned, turn off the heat and set aside . As soon as the black Venus rice is ready, drain it into a bowl, add the cooked zucchini and mix with a spoon to blend. Everything is ready to serve! We have chosen to plate the single servings of black Venus rice with shrimp and zucchini in this way: take a serving plate and place a round food ring in the center, fill it with plenty of black Venus rice
and press the surface with the back of a spoon to compact the rice , garnish the rice by laying the sautéed shrimp on top with kitchen tongs . Finally, gently remove the food ring and serve the black Venus Rice with Shrimp and Zucchini immediately!
Black Venus Rice with Shrimp and Zucchini can be stored in an airtight container for about 2 days at most. Freezing is not recommended.
For this recipe we used parboiled black Venus rice, which requires a shorter cooking time thanks to a natural steam cooking treatment that allows the rice to be preserved for a long time without the use of preservatives and colorings, while retaining all the properties of this variety. If instead you use traditional black Venus rice, boiling will require about 40 minutes, to reduce the time you can soak the rice for a few hours before cooking.
The legend says that black Venus rice was appreciated at the court of the ancient Chinese emperors for its nutritional and aphrodisiac properties (hence the name forbidden rice); it is a rice rich in fiber and phosphorus, it also contains minerals such as calcium, iron, zinc, and selenium. But the most important feature of Venus rice is its very high content of anthocyanins, plant substances also present in blueberries and other vegetables, capable of capturing free radicals and preventing oxidation; anthocyanins are precisely the components that give Venus rice its characteristic black color.

