name:
Cantonese Rice
ingredients:
Ribe rice: 1cup(200 g)
Peas: 2oz(50 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 1.1oz(30 g)
Eggs: 2
Water: ¾cup(200 g)
Rice wine: 1.7oz(25 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Chives: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Cantonese rice is a popular choice at Chinese restaurants, but it is often not recognized as a truly traditional dish. In reality, it is widely enjoyed in China and is served as an accompaniment to main courses, much like bread in Western countries . Chef Mulan has revealed the tricks behind its preparation: from the variety of rice to the cooking method , from the selection of ingredients to the choice of condiments. These details will enable you to bring an authentic dish to your table that embodies the essence of Chinese cuisine - colorful, flavorful, and fragrant!
Are you ready with a wok and chopsticks? With a menu featuring Cantonese rice, almond chicken and spring rolls we will take you on a delicious journey through the flavors and fragrances of the Far East. And don't forget the Fried ice cream for dessert!
Discover other tasty specialties:
To prepare Cantonese rice, first rinse the rice under running water several times , until the water becomes transparent. It's a fundamental step. Then pour the washed rice into a pot and cover it with water . Resting the palm of your hand in the pot, the water should reach the level of your knuckles. The recipe does not require it, but if you wish, you can flavor the rice with a pinch of salt and a drizzle of oil at this stage.
Cover with a lid and bring to a high heat, waiting for it to boil. After boiling, cook for another 2-3 minutes, lowering the temperature slightly if necessary during these minutes. You should not open the lid during these phases, otherwise, you will let the steam escape. Now, lower the flame to the minimum and cook for about 10 more minutes. After these 10 minutes, you can check by slightly lifting the lid if the water has been absorbed . If so, proceed on high heat for another 2-3 minutes until the water is completely absorbed. After this time, turn off the heat and make sure the water has been absorbed by quickly opening the lid, then cover again. Turn off and let the rice rest in the pot for 10 minutes, still covered .
In the meantime, prepare the rest of the ingredients: dice the cooked ham into cubes , then blanch the peas for about 3 minutes , drain them and rinse under cold water to preserve their color and texture .
Beat the eggs in a small bowl . Put the wok on the fire: when it is hot pour the vegetable oil and let it heat up for a moment, then add the eggs . Cook over medium heat for about one minute, stirring to achieve the scrambled effect .
At this point, add the rice and toss it together with the eggs for another minute , then add the peas .
Also add the cooked ham , then season with a pinch of salt and with rice wine .
Sauté over medium heat for 2-3 minutes to blend all the ingredients . Those who wish can also add some soy sauce. Transfer the rice to the plate and garnish with chives . Your Cantonese rice is ready to be served !
Cantonese rice can be stored for a maximum of 2 days in the refrigerator, in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
The wok is perfect for mixing the ingredients with the rice but if you don't have one you can use a normal non-stick pan.
The Ribe rice (Originario) is the ideal choice, it can be replaced with basmati rice, but be careful with the cooking times.
It is recommended to use a glass lid for cooking the rice: this way it will be easier to see when the water comes to a boil.
Instead of rice wine, you can use table wine, although the taste will be slightly different.
You can use peanut or sunflower oil, as you prefer.
If possible, buy eggs with a yellow yolk: they will give a much more intense color to the dish!
You can vary the recipe for Cantonese rice by replacing for example the cooked ham with shrimp or with tofu or tempeh for a vegetarian version.
If you want to add soy sauce, do so when the ingredients are stir-fried in the pan, never raw!
In China, rice is enriched with char siu , which is Sweet and Sour Pork , typical of the Canton region... hence the term "Cantonese"!
Chef Mulan from Mulan Group , the Zhang family's company that has been operating in Chinese gastronomy for more than twenty years: iconic dishes and many delicacies made as they would be at home. This makes them unique: an artisan production that combines the genuineness of a homemade meal and the authenticity of tradition. The attention dedicated to manual processing is perceived in the natural taste and quality of the details. From the method of closing Chinese ravioli to the meticulous processes of cooking traditional ingredients, all made according to the ancient oriental culinary art.

