name:
Tart with salted caramel yogurt and chocolate
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 1 ¾tbsp(25 g)- (approximately 1.5)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Vanilla bean: 1
Salted caramel yogurt: 1.3cups(300 g)
Dark chocolate: 10.5oz(300 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Pomegranate: to taste
Hazelnuts: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + rest times (90 minutes)

instructions:
To prepare the tart with salted caramel yogurt and chocolate, first, prepare the pastry. Place the flour , butter , and salt in the bowl of a stand mixer. Work the ingredients with the leaf attachment until you get a crumbly dough.
Add the brown sugar to the mixture and work for a few more moments. Separate the egg yolks in a bowl, add the vanilla , and pour them into the stand mixer .
Turn the machine back on until you get a uniform and soft dough . Transfer the dough to the work surface and quickly work it to obtain a dough ball .
Wrap it with cling film and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes . When it is well set, transfer it to a lightly floured work surface and roll it out to about a quarter-inch thickness. Place a 9-inch springform pan on the pastry and use it to cut a disc of the same size .
Place the pastry disc at the bottom of the pan and with the scraps, make strips about 1.25 inches wide that will be used to create the edge .
After adhering the base well with the side strips, trim the edge with a small knife . Prick the pastry base with the tines of a fork and lay a sheet of parchment paper inside the tart. Make cuts with the tip of a knife and bake in a preheated ventilated oven at 350°F for 15 minutes.
After the indicated time, remove the parchment paper and continue baking for another 10 minutes at 350°F in a ventilated oven, until the base is golden brown . Remove from the oven and let cool.
When the pastry shell is completely cold, remove it from the mold and transfer it to a plate . Now prepare the chocolate ganache. Finely chop the dark chocolate and bring the cream to a simmer. Pour the chocolate into a bowl, then add one-third of the cream and mix .
Add about half of the remaining cream , mix energetically and add the remaining cream. You should obtain a smooth ganache . Let it cool and in the meantime pour the caramel yogurt into the pastry shell .
Level the surface and refrigerate for 30 minutes. Blend the ganache with an immersion blender without incorporating air and once the 30 minutes have passed, pour it into the pastry shell .
When you reach the edge , refrigerate the tart for 30 minutes. Transfer the remaining ganache into a paper cone and keep at room temperature. After 30 minutes, decorate the tart with the reserved ganache, hazelnuts, pomegranate seeds, and thyme .
The pastry can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days, or frozen for a month.
The baked pastry shell can be stored for a day at room temperature, under a glass dome, or frozen.
The pastry can also be flavored with cinnamon and vanilla.
If you prefer, you can add a tablespoon of honey to the ganache for a more pronounced taste and a shinier result.

