name:
Rabbit Cacciatore
ingredients:
Rabbit: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- in pieces
Peeled tomatoes: 7oz(200 g)- (not drained)
Taggiasca olives: 3.5oz(100 g)
Yellow onions: 1
Garlic: 2cloves
Sage: 5leaves
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Vegetable broth: 0.9cup(200 g)
White wine: 2.7oz(80 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the preparation time of the vegetable broth

instructions:
Among the recipes that must be tasted at least once in a lifetime, the hunter's rabbit certainly holds a place of honor. This Italian typical meat second course encapsulates all the warmth and flavor of childhood memories and family meals, just like any respected grandma's recipe! The rabbit stew, cooked long in the pan with tomato and olives, becomes tender and juicy, while the thick sauce enveloping it will grant you an unforgettable bread-dipping experience... If you wish to delight your guests with a rustic and genuine homemade dish, we therefore recommend proposing the hunter's rabbit, a great alternative to the classic chicken cacciatore !
Discover other traditional rabbit recipes:
To make the rabbit cacciatore, first prepare the vegetable broth and keep it warm. Clean the onion and slice it . Heat a drizzle of oil in a pot, then add the onion and the crushed garlic cloves . Let it sauté over low heat for a few minutes .
When the onion has softened, remove it from the pan and set it aside . In the meantime, flour the rabbit already cut into pieces and shake off the excess flour. Lay the floured rabbit pieces in the pot .
Brown the rabbit, turning it on all sides , then add the aromatic herbs and the onion you set aside .
Now deglaze with the white wine and let the alcohol completely evaporate. Add the crushed tomatoes with their juice and the olives .
Salt and pepper , then pour half of the broth and cook over medium-low heat for 45 minutes, with the lid on .
After this time, add the remaining broth and continue cooking for another 45 minutes, still with the lid on. Once cooked, remove the lid, increase the heat and reduce the sauce . Your hunter's rabbit is ready to be served and enjoyed while still hot !
The rabbit cacciatore can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day, in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you like, you can also add capers for an even tastier result!

