name:
Coconut cookies
ingredients:
Coconut flour: 6tbsp(50 g)- NOT shredded coconut or desiccated coconut
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Egg whites: 3oz(90 g)- (from about 3 medium eggs)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note For the recipe to be successful, COCONUT FLOUR must be used, which is not the same as shredded coconut or grated coconut.

instructions:
Coconut cookies are very easy to make and can be made with leftover egg whites from other recipes! How many times have you made a custard or a dessert that only required the use of yolks? Besides the usual meringues to reuse the egg whites, there are other sweet treats like the one we propose here! With three simple ingredients and a handful of minutes, you will be able to prepare these delicious cookies, characterized by a fragrant outer crust and a soft heart! Coconut treats encapsulate all the flavor of this fantastic fruit. In this case, coconut flour (not to be confused with desiccated coconut or grated coconut) is the absolute protagonist along with the egg whites and will allow you to make these pretty tufts perfect for enriching a birthday buffet, to accompany a herbal tea or the 5:00 tea! If you are looking for a recipe to make with desiccated coconut, instead of coconut flour try:
To prepare the coconut cookies first pour the coconut flour and sugar into a bowl. Also add the egg whites and mix with a spoon or with a spatula.
You should get a homogeneous and compact mixture , it will be quite dry but do not worry as it is the right consistency it needs to have. Transfer the dough into a very resistant piping bag (or use a cloth one), equipped with a 1/2-inch smooth nozzle (avoid using smaller nozzles otherwise the dough will not come out easily) . Line a baking tray with parchment paper and squeeze out tufts: hold the piping bag tightly near the nozzle with one hand and with the other squeeze to extrude the dough. This way you will get flame-shaped treats weighing about 0.5 oz each. If you find the procedure too complex, you can make balls with your hands, obviously, the shape will be lost.
Continue in this way spacing them out, in order to get 16 cookies . Bake in a preheated convection oven at 390°F for 10 minutes, until they are nicely browned. Take them out and let them cool before moving them to a plate and serving them.
You can store the coconut cookies for 3-4 days well sealed in a container.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you want to give an even more 'coconutty' taste, add a sprinkle of desiccated coconut before baking, or flavor the dough with grated lime zest!
For the recipe, absolutely use coconut flour, not desiccated coconut nor grated coconut or similar products. Coconut flour can be purchased online or in organic product stores.
The dough will be very dry, but by holding the piping bag as shown and helping to form the cookies on the tray, you will be able to make them without any problems.

