name:
Braised Squid in Tomato Sauce
ingredients:
Calamari (squid): (1 kg)
Garlic: 
White wine: (70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 
Peeled tomatoes: (800 g)
Fine salt: 
Black pepper: 
Parsley: 

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Braised squid is a main course from the homemade tradition, a simple yet tasty way to savor these tender mollusks. With this recipe, we offer a "red" version with a velvety sauce of peeled tomatoes that deliciously envelops the soft strips of squid, also great to try with cuttlefish . The aromatic touch of parsley is indispensable, an herb that has an unbreakable bond with seafood-flavored dishes. For those who love fish in all its forms, braised squid is a perfect preparation to enjoy even when you don't have much time to dedicate to cooking, unlike Stewed baby octopus , which requires longer cooking. So go ahead and start slicing a crunchy loaf: dipping bread is a must here!
Let yourself be inspired by many other tasty squid recipes:
To prepare braised squid, start with the sauce. In a large pot, pour the oil, garlic, and parsley stems , let the oil infuse for about two minutes over low heat. Pour in the peeled tomatoes already reduced to pulp when the oil is hot . Let it cook slowly for at least 30 minutes, stirring occasionally and keeping the lid partially closed. If it dries out too much during cooking, you can add a little water. When the cooking is finished, the sauce will have thickened, remove the garlic and parsley with kitchen tongs .
Then take care of cleaning the squid: rinse them under running water, then with your hands remove the skin and detach the head from the mantle along with the cartilage pen . Wash the squid again thoroughly to extract the innards. Now open the mantle like a book with a knife and cut it in half .
Cut into strips about 0.2 inches wide and, when you're done, move on to the head: separate it from the tentacles by cutting just below the eyes so you can keep the tuft. Heat the olive oil in a pan with the whole peeled garlic clove. Pour in the cleaned squid and tentacles and sauté over high heat for 2-3 minutes: they will curl up .
Remove the garlic and deglaze with white wine, allowing it to evaporate over high heat . Pour the squid with all the seasoning into the tomato sauce .
Salt, if necessary, pepper and let it flavor for another 1-2 minutes over high heat . With the heat off, add the finely chopped parsley and a drizzle of raw oil. Your braised squid is ready to be served hot .
It is advisable to consume the braised squid immediately, but if you prefer, you can store it for 1-2 days at most in the fridge.
If you like a bit of spice, add chili pepper to your braised squid; if you want an even richer sauce, use tomato puree and let it cook a bit longer.
Finally, if you like the combination, peas certainly go great!

