name:
Lemon Marmalade
ingredients:
Lemons: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- from Sorrento
Sugar: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus 48 hours of resting the lemons and the time needed for jar sanitization

instructions:
Homemade jams and marmalades are a real delight, a genuine product to capture the best of the fruit and preserve it all year round. Let's discover how to prepare a perfect lemon marmalade, starting with the product: we have chosen (and suggest) the Sorrento lemons, an Italian product with Protected Geographical Indication. The "Ovali di Sorrento", named so for their shape and size, are rich in vitamin C and have a very fragrant skin, thanks to the presence of essential oils. The rather acidic taste of their pulp is softened by soaking the lemon slices in water for two days, so that with the addition of sugar and long cooking, the marmalade turns out sweet while still preserving the flavor and aroma of the lemon. If you prefer it more delicate and silky you can pass it through a food mill as we did, otherwise discover it in a more rustic version. In any case, it will be a success! Now it's time to make your lemon marmalade to enjoy it "naturally", spreading it on a slice of bread, to flavor your desserts or accompany a cheese platter!
Try also other homemade marmalade:
To prepare lemon marmalade first make sure to use sterilized jars and with new lids. Wash, then slice the lemons thinly, it is not necessary to remove the seeds . Transfer them to a large bowl and cover with cold water . Cover with plastic wrap and leave at room temperature for 24 hours. Rinse and change the water, then repeat the resting for 24 hours.
After the second resting period, rinse the lemons again and put them in a pot. Cover with water and bring to a boil. Then drain the lemons and keep about 12 oz of the water in which you boiled them. Transfer the lemons back into the pot and the indicated water .
Also add the sugar . Bring to a gentle boil and cook, stirring often , for about 30-40 minutes. At this point, the slices will be quite soft and broken down, but rather uneven and abundantly syrupy : do not worry and especially do not cook too much because the marmalade will thicken a lot during cooling.
Pass the mixture through a food mill , so as to remove the seeds. It is not necessary to be overly thorough but this step is also necessary to somewhat uniform the consistency. Transfer the marmalade into sanitized jars and proceed with the usual canning process .
The lemon marmalade can be stored for about 5 months, provided that the vacuum sealing is done correctly and the jars are kept in a cool and dry place, away from sources of light and heat. Once the jar is opened, it is recommended to store in the refrigerator and consume within a week.
For preparing lemon marmalade, we advise against using a blender because blending would incorporate too much air: the marmalade would turn out more opaque and milky, and preservation would be compromised.
If you prefer to avoid the food mill, you can mash the marmalade with a fork or leave it as is, without further steps for a coarser and more rustic outcome: for this version, just make sure to remove the seeds before starting the soaking process.

