name:
Vegetarian Lasagna
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Eggs: 2
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Type 00 flour: 3cups(100 g)-
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Nutmeg: 1pinch
Black pepper: 1pinch
Champignon mushrooms: 3 ½cups(250 g)
Zucchini: 6oz(170 g)
Carrots: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Red onions: 1cup(200 g)
Broccoli: 2cups(250 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 1cup(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2cups(200 g)- to be grated
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time of the fresh pasta

instructions:
Vegetarian lasagna is a lighter and more colorful version of oven-baked lasagna , a beloved first course for both adults and children, and the undisputed protagonist of many Italian families' Sunday lunches! With its tasty layers of vegetables and béchamel, interspersed with thin sheets of good homemade puff pastry, vegetarian lasagna will conquer even the most difficult palates! We like to think of this recipe a bit like a 'sketch', a starting point to enrich or vary according to taste or nature: a palette that in summer colors up with peppers and eggplants, where in spring asparagus and snap peas pop up, and in winter pumpkin, beetroot, cauliflower ... whatever the season or occasion, this quick vegetarian recipe will enrich your festive menus with aromas and colors, or become a substantial and genuine single dish, to be enjoyed in generous portions.
To stay on the theme of vegetarian lasagna, also try the variant with pesto and zucchini !
Discover more delicious Lasagna recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare vegetarian lasagna, start by making the egg pasta. Pour the flour into a bowl , keeping about 1.7 oz aside. In a separate bowl, beat the eggs, then add them to the flour and start kneading until you've mixed the ingredients well .
At this point, transfer the mixture onto a pastry board and work it , adding the flour kept aside as needed, until you get a smooth, firm, and elastic dough which you will shape into a sphere . Wrap it in food wrap and let it rest for about 30-60 minutes outside the fridge in a cool and dry place.
In the meantime, take care of preparing the béchamel. Pour the butter into a saucepan , let it melt gently then add the sifted flour, stirring quickly . Once you've got a hazelnut-colored roux, add the boiling milk and stir again.
Season your béchamel with a pinch of pepper , salt, a grating of nutmeg and continue cooking, always stirring for 5-6 minutes, until it reaches the right density. At this point, transfer the béchamel into a bowl and cover with plastic wrap touching the surface .
Wash all the vegetables and start cutting them. The carrots should be peeled and cut into julienne , for the broccoli only the florets are needed , and the onion should be finely sliced .
Trim the zucchinis and cut them into julienne as well . Clean the mushrooms, slice them and also cut the cherry tomatoes in half .
Once all the vegetables are prepared, pour the oil into a pan and first add the carrots , cook for a couple of minutes and then add the broccoli too. Deglaze with a bit of water , cover with a lid and let cook for 3-4 minutes. At this point, also add the onions
and then the zucchinis and mushrooms . Let the vegetables cook, stirring occasionally, and only when they are cooked, season with salt and pepper, then turn off the heat and add cherry tomatoes and thyme .
By now your egg dough will have rested, take the dough, divide it in half , and roll it out with a pasta machine . Go over it, reducing the thickness each time
until you reach a thickness of about 0.08 inches. Once you have the sheets, make sure to cut out 8 rectangles measuring 6x8 inches . At this point, blanch them for 1 minute in slightly salted boiling water , drain them and place them on a tray lined with a kitchen towel . If you prefer, you can quickly pass the pasta sheets through a bowl with cold water to stop the cooking, then spread the rectangles again on a clean dish towel, but the important thing will be to lay out the various rectangles well stretched out and without overlapping.
Once the pasta is cooked, take a baking dish 12x8 inches, add 2 or 3 tablespoons of béchamel and spread it over the entire surface of the dish. Place 2 rectangles of pasta, side by side, cover with more béchamel, sprinkle with grated cheese and place 1/3 of the vegetables .
Cover with another two sheets of pasta and proceed in this way for two more layers, until all the ingredients are used up. When you get to the last layer of béchamel , sprinkle with more grated cheese, cover with the vegetables and bake in a preheated conventional oven at 350°F for 20 minutes, then turn on the grill and cook for another 5 minutes. Take your vegetarian lasagna out of the oven and serve it while still hot.
Vegetarian lasagna can be stored in the fridge covered with plastic wrap for a maximum of 1-2 days. It can be frozen either uncooked or cooked.
The beauty of vegetables is that there are so many different kinds each season! Let yourself be guided by seasonality to vary the ingredients of your vegetarian lasagna by adding Brussels sprouts, diced pumpkin, fresh peas, julienned turnips, or whatever the garden and imagination suggest to you!
If you follow a vegetarian diet that excludes not only meat and fish but also cheeses made with animal rennet, you can replace the ingredient with a similar cheese made with vegetable rennet.

