name:
Nutella Tart
ingredients:
Butter: 4oz(110 g)- cold
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(215 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Powdered sugar: 3cups(85 g)
Nutella: 1 ½cup(400 g)
Cocoa butter: 3.2oz(90 g)
Fresh liquid cream: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time of the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
Do you know when you listen to a song you particularly love, and at that very moment, your ears can isolate any other noise around, making room for the only sound you want to hear? There are recipes capable of arousing the same emotion, perhaps bringing you back to pleasant moments spent in the company of your loved ones. For us, the Nutella tart is definitely the cake that tastes of home, like those homemade ones and the many snacks shared by slicing a piece with friends. Like the Mars Cake , this Quick Nutella Cake is a rule-breaking treat to indulge in once in a while... just for the sheer pleasure of it! Shortcrust pastry and an irresistible filling, here's the Nutella tart: much more than music to our ears!
Try also these delicious variants of tarts:
To prepare the Nutella tart, start with the shortcrust pastry . So in a mixer pour the flour and cold butter and blend for a moment. Transfer the sandy mixture to the work surface , make a well in the middle and pour in the egg yolks ,
sift the powdered sugar around the well . Start to knead briefly, mixing the eggs in the center and gradually collecting the flour; try to knead briefly just enough time to get a dough that is sufficiently compact which you can wrap in cling film . Let the dough rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes.
Then take the dough and beat it on a lightly floured pastry board in this way you will soften it a bit, making the rolling out easier. Roll the dough to a thickness of about 1/5 inch . Then wrap the dough around the rolling pin and place it in a 8 and 2/3 inches cake pan already buttered and floured .
Trim the edges and gather the excess dough, with which you will prepare the diamond shapes. Finally prick the base and set aside the pan. Proceed with the cream: so place the cocoa butter in a bowl
and melt it in the microwave or alternatively in a bain-marie (if you do not have cocoa butter, you can replace it with the same amount of regular butter), add it to the Nutella little by little mixing until it is completely absorbed. Finally pour the just obtained cream into the mold and spread it over the entire surface .
Take the dough again and roll it out again, on the floured surface, and form diamond shapes about 2/5 inch wide, with a serrated wheel . Place them on the cake pan first in one direction and then in the other , in order to cross them and create a diamond pattern.
Finally brush with fresh liquid cream and bake in a preheated oven, in static mode, at 320°F for 40 minutes (you can try baking in a convection oven at 300°F for about 30-35 minutes, baking on the lower rack of the oven; you can cover halfway through cooking with a sheet of aluminum foil if it seems to be cooking too much on the surface). Once cooked, let your Nutella tart cool completely and then unmold it to serve .
You can store the Nutella tart in the refrigerator for 3 days, preferably covered with cling film.
If you prefer, you can prepare the shortcrust pastry in advance and store it in the refrigerator for one day.
If you do not have cocoa butter, it will be sufficient to replace it with the same amount of regular butter: the consistency may vary slightly but the taste will be equally delicious!

