name:
Roasted Lamb and Potatoes
ingredients:
Lamb: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Red potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Spring onions: 1
Garlic: 1
Lemon juice: 1
Water: 6.8oz(200 g)
Dry white wine: 2.7oz(80 g)
Thyme: 3sprigs
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Sage: 4leaves
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Juniper berries: 5
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Those most devoted to tradition will not fail to bring to the Easter table a typical dish based on lamb. Lamb carries with it Christian suggestions and symbols that are still alive and honored today. Its unmistakable taste with wild notes makes it unique and very loved among the Easter main courses, for this reason, it is the protagonist of many regional recipes like the Lamb with Cheese and Eggs or the Stuffed Lamb Shoulder Tuscan Style and also of home-made preparations like the one in Lamb Stew . With roasted lamb with potatoes, we want to celebrate this typical preparation with a simple and rustic recipe, accessible to everyone, to renew the traditions of the Easter menu. As usual, the lamb is flavored with fragrant aromas that temper its pungent taste, and the oven cooking will return tender and juicy meat... the typical side dish of potatoes, then, will seal all its goodness for an unforgettable Easter lunch.
Come and discover all the other appetizing lamb recipes we have in store for you, you will be spoiled for choice!
To prepare the roasted lamb with potatoes, first place the pieces of lamb in a large bowl, squeeze the lemon juice making sure to remove the seeds , pour the white wine , the crushed juniper berries ,
season with the crushed unpeeled garlic and scent with bay leaves and sage . Let the meat marinate so that it becomes flavorful for at least 30 minutes. In the meantime, wash and dry the spring onion, trim the root base and cut it into strips lengthwise ,
then divide them in half . Preheat the oven to 380°F in static mode and take care of the potatoes: rinse them well under running water and dry them. Cut the potatoes in half
and place them in a slightly oiled baking dish , add the spring onion and the lamb with the aromatics , excluding the garlic.
Further season the preparation with thyme and rosemary , then cover with water ,
season with olive oil , salt , pepper, stir to flavor and then bake in a preheated conventional oven at 380°F and cook for 1 hour and 30 minutes. Halfway through cooking, and only if the lamb should be cooked before the potatoes, you can cover the dish with a sheet of aluminum foil to prevent the meat from drying out too much. Once cooked, the roasted lamb with potatoes will be ready to be served hot .
The roasted lamb with potatoes can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for a couple of days. You can freeze the lamb without the potatoes.
It is recommended to keep the gravy that may result "in excess" once the lamb is cooked, by filtering it and drizzling the meat before serving; this way, the lamb will be juicier. If, on the contrary, during cooking the liquid should dry out too much, add warm water as needed.
This dish can be enriched accompanied by a Pilaf Rice or by a green sauce based on mint by emulsifying the oil with fresh mint leaves with an immersion blender.
Instead of lamb, did you buy goat? No problem, follow the recipe for oven-baked goat or the Kid Goat in a Pan !

