name:
Easy Cocoa Bundt Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(350 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 50g(50 g)
Sugar: 3cups(150 g)
Eggs: 5.3oz(150 g)- (about 3 medium)
Vegetable oil: ½cup(120 g)
Partly skim milk: 1cup(220 g)
Baking powder: 0.6oz(16 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
Bundt Cake or Big Bundt Cake ? They seem synonymous yet quantity and size make the difference. To these basic delights, we also add a super tasty version: easy cocoa bundt cake. It's very simple to make this cake that will surely enter your recipe book for snacks or breakfast. Soft, tasty, rich in cocoa...! We know you are very loyal to the grandma's bundt cake , the yogurt bundt cake or maybe to a delicious version with a surprise, the cocoa bundt cake with a coconut heart. But this time the real surprise is the preparation: the easy cocoa bundt cake is also butter-free! If you are looking for other simple cocoa desserts, try also the chocolate and citrus bundt cake and the hot milk cocoa cake !
To prepare the easy cocoa bundt cake, start by breaking the eggs into a bowl and start to lightly beat them with a hand whisk while pouring the sugar . Whip for a couple of minutes before pouring and mixing the milk and the oil .
In another bowl, sift the flour and baking powder , do the same with the cocoa . Mix with a spoon to blend the powders .
Little by little, add the mix to the liquids and gently incorporate with the whisk . You will get a smooth and lump-free mixture . Pour the mixture into a 9 1/2-inch pan (measured on the surface) with a 8-inch base and a height of 4 inches, greased and floured .
Level and bake at 355°F, already hot in static mode, for about 40 minutes . Always do the toothpick test before taking out of the oven. Let cool and gently unmold the cocoa bundt cake. Dust with powdered sugar when it's cold .
The cocoa bundt cake can be stored in a container for 2 days. If you want, you can also freeze it, better if cut into slices.
No need to tell you that chocolate chips in the batter will be the extra touch of flavor... white chocolate chips are also fine! But if you want to give a really tasty touch to your cocoa bundt cake then pour the chips on the just-baked cake: the heat will melt them and the effect will be delicious!

