name:
Ossobuco alla Milanese with Yellow Risotto
ingredients:
Chicken wings: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Water: 25cups(6 l)
Carrots: 2.1oz(60 g)
Celery: 1oz(25 g)
Yellow onions: 30g(30 g)
Parsley: ½tbsp(15 g)- (stems only)
Coarse salt: 4tsp(18 g)
Ground black pepper: 8
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Veal marrow bones: 4.5lbs(1.6 kg)- (4 at 400 g each)
Yellow onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)
White wine: 1.7oz(50 ml)
Butter: 30g(30 g)
Buckwheat flour: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Rosemary: 1tsp(5 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Lemon peel: 1
Parsley: 0.35oz(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Carnaroli rice: 1 ¾cup(320 g)
Yellow onions: 1.8oz(50 g)
Butter: 2.3oz(65 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.6oz(45 g)
Saffron threads: tsp(0.5 g)
Water: 6.8oz(200 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 3 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note plus 5 hours to soak the saffron

instructions:
Today we take a leap into Lombardy for a culinary journey through the traditions of this land. It's hard to choose the quintessential dish, but in our ranking, Ossobuco alla Milanese with yellow risotto is definitely at the top, followed by the pure Risotto alla Milanese , the classic Milanese cutlet , and the Pizzoccheri alla Valtellinese . In the GialloZafferano kitchen, we had the honor to host a great chef, Alessandro Negrini, who unveiled all his secrets to prepare this dish! His gremolada is special, where instead of being chopped, garlic is turned into delicate chips, and lemon zest is added to the pan at the end of cooking along with parsley to release all its fragrances. Patience, excellent ingredients, and a bit of technique will allow you to serve a starred dish at the table and enjoy it with your family.
To prepare Ossobuco alla Milanese with yellow risotto first soak saffron pistils in 1.7 oz of water for at least 5 hours. Then start preparing the broth. Take the chicken wings, place them on a tray, and using a torch burn off any feathers ; if you don't have a torch, you can move the wings closer to the flame of the stove using kitchen tongs. At this point, transfer them to a rather large pot, add about 0.8 gallons of water
and bring to a boil for 2-3 minutes . Then drain the wings, rinse them and also rinse the pot. This way, you'll get a more delicate broth. Wash celery, carrots, onions, and parsley; then, without peeling them, cut them into coarse pieces .
Put the wings and vegetables back into the clean pot , add black pepper and a small bay leaf .
Then also pour in the coarse salt ; it's important to weigh it well since the broth, as it reduces, will be what gives flavor to both the risotto and the ossobuco. Add the remaining 0.8 gallons of water and cover with a lid , light the fire and let it cook with the lid on for about 45 minutes over moderate heat.
After this time strain the broth ; you should obtain about 0.8 gallons (2 for the ossobuco and 1 for the risotto), if not, add some more natural water .
Now proceed with preparing the ossobuco. Take an onion and, without peeling it, cut it first in half and then into slices . In a very hot pan pour half of the oil, add the onion and let it sauté until it is well caramelized and golden .
Deglaze with white wine , wait for it to evaporate completely and turn off the heat . Place the ossobuco on a chopping board and using a sharp knife make 3 cuts on each side of the connective tissue ; this way, they will not curl up during cooking.
Take another pan, heat it on the fire and pour in the remaining oil . Then add the ossobuco and let them brown for at least 2-3 minutes without moving them. When they are well browned, turn them
and let the other side brown for a couple of minutes. Then transfer the ossobuco to the pan with the onions and put it back on the fire. Add about 1 quart of broth and add the already chopped rosemary inside the broth, without putting it directly on the meat .
Cover with a lid and let it cook over moderate heat for 35 minutes. Meanwhile, heat another pan well, pour the flour and when it is well toasted and golden add it to the ossobuco, taking care to pour it always into the broth and never directly on the meat .
After the first 35 minutes, turn the ossobuco using a kitchen spatula ; it's important to do this very gently to prevent the marrow, now cooked, from coming out. Also pour in the remaining quart of broth , put the lid back on and let it cook over moderate heat for another 35 minutes, until the meat is tender and falling off the bone, while the marrow is compact .
In the meantime, prepare the garlic chips. Take the garlic, cut the cloves in half and remove the core . To soften the garlic and reduce its aggressiveness, blanch it for 15 seconds in boiling water ; repeat this operation 4 more times, changing the water in the pot each time. Then drain it and place it on a clean cloth .
Cut very thin slices lengthwise, being careful not to crush it (4-5). Then take another pan, add the olive oil and bring it to a temperature of 320°F. Then pour the garlic inside
and stir with a fork, or a skimmer , so that the slices do not stick together, until you get well-golden chips . Then drain them and transfer them onto a sheet of frying paper .
As soon as the ossobuco are cooked, transfer them onto a plate, leaving the sauce and onions in the pan and being careful not to damage the marrow . Place a strainer over a bowl and filter the sauce, lightly pressing the onions with a spatula in order to release all the flavors . Pour the cooking liquid back into the pan .
Turn on the flame and as soon as it starts to boil, add the butter , stirring thoroughly until the sauce has thickened. Then turn off the fire and transfer the ossobuco back into the pan .
Using a spoon, pour the sauce over the meat so that it absorbs as much as possible. Arrange the garlic chips on the ossobuco, about 3 on each . Add the grated lemon zest , making sure to take only the yellow part.
Then finely chop the parsley at the moment and add it to the pan . Cover with a lid and let them rest next to the stove.
Now take care of the cooking of the yellow risotto. Peel the onion and slice it , then transfer it to a small saucepan along with about 1.8 ounces of butter and about 2/3 cup of water .
Place the saucepan on the fire for about 15 minutes and then blend everything with an immersion blender until you get a cream ; this will prevent fats from burning during the cooking of the risotto.
Pour the rice into a hot pan and toast it. When it has changed color and is very hot, deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate completely. Then add about 2 cups of hot broth and stir. During the first 5 minutes, no additional broth should be added.
Add the blended onion and let the risotto simmer without stirring too much. Add broth as needed , keeping in mind that within 13 minutes, all of it should be added. When there are 2 minutes left to the cooking of the risotto, add the saffron .
Mix everything and cream off the heat by adding the remaining 1.4 ounces of butter and stirring. Then add the Parmigiano Reggiano cheese and stir again .
Transfer the just-cooked risotto to one side of the plate , then place an ossobuco so that part of it rests on the rice , finish with a bit of the sauce and serve your Ossobuco alla Milanese with yellow risotto .
The ossobuco alone can be stored for a maximum of 1 day in the refrigerator. It is recommended to prepare the risotto at the moment, while the broth can be stored in the refrigerator for 3 days already strained, in an airtight container.
If you have beef ossobuco, you will need to extend the cooking by about 30 minutes (15 per side), but you will need to use a bit more broth.
Instead of buckwheat flour, you can use the same amount of all-purpose flour. If you prefer to skip the step where the garlic is boiled, keep in mind that the flavor will be much more intense.
Once cooked in the broth, the chicken wings can be enjoyed as is or baked in the oven with aromatics.
If you want to try a new pairing, also try the Risotto alla Milanese with purple shrimp!

