name:
Penne with speck and zucchini
ingredients:
Whole wheat Pennette Rigate pasta: 3cups(320 g)
Zucchini: 0.75lb(360 g)- about 3
Speck: 8.8oz(250 g)- in a single slice
Shallot: 2oz(60 g)
Thyme: 4sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
When you're at home and it's almost lunchtime, but when hunger strikes, you don't feel much like embarking on elaborate dishes! Thanks to the penne with speck and zucchini, you will bring a creative first course to the table with the combination of a few ingredients. This dish is the right compromise to make a tasty, easy, and quick meal! In this recipe, we chose whole wheat pasta that with its slightly toasted flavor perfectly matches the strong taste of the speck. All is enveloped by the sweetness of the zucchini making this first course very balanced. Try making the penne with speck and zucchini yourself, you'll be amazed at their taste and how easy they are to make.
Do not miss these delicious variants:
To prepare the penne with speck and zucchini start by cleaning them, then wash and trim them . Grate 2 zucchinis with a large-mesh grater and set them aside. Take the remaining zucchini and split it in half, then cut each half into slices and obtain sticks .
Cut the sticks in half to get sticks about 3/4 to 1 1/4 inches long. Finely chop the shallot and put it in a pan together with 2 teaspons of oil .
Let it soften by adding a ladle of hot water and add the grated zucchinis , salt, pepper, add another ladle of hot water and cook for about ten minutes, until they soften. Meanwhile, pour the remaining 2 teaspons of oil into a pan and add the zucchini sticks .
Salt, pepper these as well and let cook for 5-6 minutes . In the meantime, slice the speck and obtain strips about 1 1/4 inches long .
Add the strips of speck to the now cooked zucchinis and let cook for about 5 minutes. Meanwhile, cook the whole wheat penne in plenty of boiling water, salted to taste . Drain when al dente and pour it into the pan with the zucchinis and speck .
Mix to blend the ingredients, then add the zucchini sticks , thyme leaves and plate. Add a final grind of pepper and serve your penne with speck and zucchini while still hot !
Keep the penne with speck and zucchini for a maximum of 1 day in the refrigerator, sealed in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
For a touch of crunchiness, try sautéing the speck in a pan and add it only at the end!
For a more intense flavor, try a new variant by adding a sachet of saffron to the zucchinis.

