name:
Apple cake no butter
ingredients:
Golden delicious apples: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Eggs: 3
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Brown sugar: 3cups(150 g)
Baking powder: 0.6oz(16 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Lemon peel: 1
Vegetable oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Greek yogurt: 4.4oz(125 g)
Brown sugar: 1.4oz(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 25 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
There are apple cakes for all tastes: from the classic apple cake to the sunburst apple cake , to the apple and mascarpone cake ... all fluffy and easy to prepare just like the apple cake no butter! An eggless apple cake made with vegetable oil and yogurt, for a light and fragrant dough. Excellent for breakfast or a healthy and genuine snack, this variant has all the credentials to become one of your favorites and is also ideal for those following a vegan or lactose-free diet! After all, any time is a good time to enjoy an apple dessert, even simple baked apples ... in addition to the apple cake no butter, we also recommend trying these cakes :
To make the apple cake no butter, start by peeling 2.2 lbs of Golden apples. You can set aside one and a half apples while cutting the rest into cubes. Then drizzle with lemon juice to prevent them from browning.
Crack 3 eggs into a bowl, add the brown sugar, a pinch of salt, and the grated lemon zest. Start whipping with an electric mixer.
When the mixture is nice and fluffy, you can pour in the vegetable oil in a thin stream, once absorbed, it's time for the Greek yogurt. Then mix together all-purpose flour and baking powder by sifting them.
Gradually add the dry ingredients to the mixture and continue to work with the electric mixer until the dough is homogeneous. Drain the apples from the excess lemon juice, then dip them into the dough.
Mix , pour into a 9-inch diameter mold oiled and lined with parchment paper . You can cut the remaining apples into slices .
Spread them radially on the surface of the cake, covering also the center . Then sprinkle with brown sugar , and bake in a preheated static oven at 340°F for about 85 minutes. Always do the toothpick test before removing your apple cake no butter from the oven !
The apple cake no butter can be stored at room temperature for 2-3 days, covered with a dome.
You can freeze it after baking and letting it cool.
As an alternative to Golden apples, you can use Renette apples.

