name:
Chocolate Chip Cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 1- (medium)
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: 6.3tbsp(90 g)- (softened)
Chocolate drops: 1.8oz(50 g)
Baking soda: ½tsp
Fine salt: 1pinch
Vanilla extract: ½tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + resting times (about 60 min.)

instructions:
Chocolate chip cookies are fragrant Shortcrust Pastry Cookies , unique in taste and shape. The typical "chip" that has won over both young and old over the years, perfect for everyday breakfast! Making these cookies is simple, but today we reveal a trick to keep their shape intact during baking. Their shape is what makes chocolate chip cookies so special, perfect as dunking cookies in milk, but not only: these delicious cookies are also great to enjoy in the afternoon with a good cup of tea or juice. Follow the doses and procedure and make chocolate chip cookies with our foolproof recipe... prepare plenty because one leads to another.
Here are other cookies not to miss:
And for breakfast, try our Chocolate Chip Cake , soft and tasty!
To prepare chocolate chip cookies, first put the softened butter in a bowl, add the brown sugar , and a pinch of salt . Work with electric whisks until you get a creamy, whipped consistency .
Add the slightly beaten egg and mix again until well absorbed . At this point, add the vanilla extract .
Also add the baking soda , the chocolate chips , and the flour .
Mix for a few more minutes with the electric whisks until you get a homogeneous mixture. Then transfer the dough to the work surface and compact it with your hands .
Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. After this time, you can form the cookies. Take a piece of about 1 oz . Shape a ball, flatten it and give it a drop shape by molding the dough with your hands .
Gradually place the cookies on a baking sheet , you'll get about 20. Space them well and if necessary, use 2 baking sheets. Let them rest again in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. Bake in a static oven, preheated to 350°F, for about 15 minutes, then take them out . Let them cool completely before moving the cookies from the baking sheet , then serve them.
The cookies can be stored in an airtight container for about 1 week. You can freeze the dough for about 1 month.
Do not prolong the baking time if the cookies seem soft, they will solidify once cooled. The important thing is that they are slightly golden both on top and bottom.
Brown sugar gives a caramelized flavor and a darker color, if you don't prefer it, you can replace it with the same amount of white sugar.
If you prefer slightly crunchier cookies, eliminate the baking soda.

