name:
Baked Frittata
ingredients:
Eggs: 8
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: 5.3oz(150 g)
Oregano: 2sprigs
Gruyère cheese (PDO): 3.5oz(100 g)
Red onions: 0.75lb(350 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Preheat the oven because in a few minutes it will be time to bake your frittata, perhaps for dinner! It is a very simple recipe, a great alternative to the classic stovetop egg frittata . We propose a really tasty version, with stewed onions and pieces of Gruyere cheese. Thanks to the addition of cream, you will get a fluffy and very soft frittata. The advantage of preparing the baked frittata compared to the pan version is in the cooking: it will not be necessary to check that the bottom does not burn, turn it over or stir it from time to time. Serve the frittata in cubes, as finger food, to enrich the appetizer or aperitif. Bring it for a picnic, or use it to stuff a nice sandwich, it will also be excellent at room temperature! Discover also these delicious variations:
To prepare the baked frittata as a first step peel the onions and slice them thinly . Transfer them to a pan together with a drizzle of oil and salt .
Cover with a lid and let cook for 10 minutes over medium heat, until they are well wilted . In the meantime, cut the cheese into cubes .
Now break the eggs into a large bowl, add salt, pepper , and some fresh oregano leaves . Also pour in the cream .
Mix vigorously with a whisk trying to incorporate some air . When the onions have cooled down, add them to the egg mixture and mix again.
Then transfer into a large rectangular baking dish 10x7.5 inches lined with parchment paper . Arrange the cheese cubes evenly and bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for 30 minutes. If it should not be golden brown enough, activate the grill for a couple of minutes at maximum power. Take the baked frittata out of the oven and enjoy it while it's still hot!
The baked frittata can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day.
Alternatively, once cooked, it can be frozen.
Instead of Gruyere cheese, you can use many other cheeses. Some examples? Provolone, smoked scamorza, Fontina, Tomini, or Caciocavallo! Adding cream inside the frittata makes it very soft. We recommend using it, but if you are out, try replacing it with the same amount of milk, or omit it. Your frittata will still be great!

