name:
Sautéed Bell Peppers
ingredients:
Bell peppers: 1.5lbs(700 g)- (3 mixed)
Red onions: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
With bell peppers you can make countless recipes and today we want to show you how to prepare an easy and quick side dish . Sautéed bell peppers are truly delicious, soft, yet fleshy and super tasty... similar to peperonata , but without tomato! Making them is very simple, you just have to cut them into strips and sauté them in a pan with onion and basil! For a colorful dish we recommend using mixed bell peppers, green, yellow, and red, but you can also opt for just one of these if you don't have them all available. Sautéed bell peppers are perfect to accompany many main courses, but also great for enriching bruschettas and sandwiches! Enjoy them in their season, they will give you a unique sweetness and taste! And if you love quick recipes, also try our eggplants in a pan and potatoes in a pan! Here are other bell pepper recipes to try:
To prepare the sautéed bell peppers first slice the onion and let it sweat on low heat in a pan with a drizzle of oil . Keep an eye on it and stir it occasionally. In the meantime, clean the bell peppers, start by removing the top .
Cut them in half and remove the internal ribs and any seeds . Then cut the bell peppers into strips and as soon as the onion is well softened, add them to the pan. Add a pinch of salt .
Cook over medium heat for about 15 minutes, stirring mostly at the beginning . As they soften, stir them as little as possible to let them brown well. Season with hand-torn basil leaves and serve your sautéed bell peppers .
You can store the bell peppers in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Alternatively, they can be frozen.
For a more special version, you can flavor the bell peppers with cumin and scent them with chopped mint. If you prefer, instead of onion you can use a mix of garlic; you can also season with desalted capers.

