name:
Eggplant Pasta
ingredients:
Sedanini Rigati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Eggplant: 0.75lb(350 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 8.8oz(250 g)
Basil: - few leaves
Fresh scallion: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus 2 hours to drain the eggplant

instructions:
Eggplant pasta is a colorful vegetarian summer first course, which in the simplicity of its ingredients encloses the scents of the Mediterranean. Many cubes of gently stewed eggplant make the dish enveloping and velvety, and the basil and cherry tomatoes balance it in freshness. A dish that's delicious to enjoy hot, but also cold, on the beach or in the office, just like the classic pasta salad or the Mediterranean pasta salad ! The genuineness and versatility are the winning cards of this pasta with eggplants, a timeless and always appetizing recipe! Also try the Eggplant Pasta Bake !
To prepare eggplant pasta, first take care of the eggplant. Wash it, trim it and cut it first into slices and then into cubes of about half of an inch . Then transfer them into a colander, season them lightly with salt and place a small plate with a weight on top of them and let them drain for a couple of hours.
When the eggplant has released all the vegetation water, start cutting the spring onions first in half and then into rather thin slices . Pour the oil into a pan, heat it up and add the spring onions . Once they are well browned, add the eggplant ,
season with salt, pepper and let cook for about 15 minutes. In the meantime, wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them into quarters and add them to the eggplant cubes only when these are tender and cooked .
Adjust with salt and pepper and let cook for another 4-5 minutes. In the meantime, cook the pasta in plenty of boiling water, salted to taste ; once al dente , drain it
and pour it directly into the pan with the eggplants . Sauté your eggplant pasta for a few minutes adding the basil leaves , now all that's left is to plate it !
Eggplant Pasta can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
To give a stringy touch to your eggplant pasta, you can add cubes of mozzarella or smoked scamorza cheese! And maybe a sprinkle of chili pepper, to make your dish more spirited!

