name:
Strawberry Caipiroska
ingredients:
Vodka: 1.7oz(50 ml)
Ice: to taste
Strawberries: 1.75oz(50 g)
Lime: 30g(30 g)
Brown sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Serving: 1

instructions:
The Caipiroska is a relatively modern take on the Caipirinha, a "historic" cocktail originating from Brazil, made with Cachaca (sugarcane distillate). The preparation and the ingredients of the two cocktails are essentially the same: the alcoholic base changes (dry Vodka for the Caipiroska, Cachaca for the Caipirinha) and the addition of strawberries in the Caipiroska. The Caipiroska can also be prepared with other fruits, according to taste, by adding the mashed (or blended) fruit or its syrup; thus, we will have: Strawberry Caipiroska, Mango Caipiroska, Banana Caipiroska, etc...
To prepare the strawberry caipiroska, wash and cut the lime into cubes and the strawberries, after removing the stalk, into quarters . In a sufficiently large old fashioned glass, place the lime
and the brown sugar , then, with a pestle, muddle and twist to juice the lime and mix it with the sugar . Also add the strawberries and muddle them too with the pestle, until they are crushed .
Coarsely chop some ice by placing it in a sealed transparent food bag and beating it with a meat tenderizer . Fill the glass with the ice and pour the dry vodka over it, then, with a long-handled spoon, mix everything well . Add two short, wide straws: the Strawberry Caipiroska is served!
We recommend consuming the strawberry caipiroska immediately, to prevent the ice from melting and diluting the drink.
If you like sweet cocktails, you can try this variant: muddle the lime with only 2 teaspoons of brown sugar and, after muddling the strawberries too, add a tablespoon of strawberry syrup to your Caipiroska: the result will be truly excellent. To best present your Caipiroska, you can garnish the glass with slices of lime and whole strawberries.
Devotees and connoisseurs of the Caipirinha despise the Caipiroska, which, however, seems to be very popular among women, as it is particularly sweet and pleasantly flavored with the taste of fruit.

