name:
Quick Tacos
ingredients:
Tacos: 8
Sausage: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Sweet Peperoncino: 0.4oz(10 g)- long
Smoked paprika: 1spoonful
Tomato paste: 1spoonful
Red wine: 0.8oz(25 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Datterino tomatoes: 1cup(150 g)
Fresh scallion: 1.4oz(40 g)
Parsley: 1bunch
Lime juice: ½
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Sour cream: ½cup(100 g)
Greek yogurt: ¼cup(50 g)
Lime peel: ½

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 18 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Looking for a tasty idea for a quick dinner with friends? Try the quick tacos with sausage, a fast and flavorful variation of the classic Tacos with meat recipe. Ready in under 30 minutes, these tacos are stuffed with sausage flavored with spices and sweet chili, for a tasty and succulent filling. To complete the dish, a fresh lime salad that recalls the traditional Mexican tomato salsa , and a light yogurt cream that perfectly balances the richness of the pork. Perfect for a last-minute dinner, these easy-to-make tacos will win you over at the first bite!
Don't miss these variations and other Tex-Mex classics:


To prepare the quick tacos, start with the sausage ragù. In a large pan, pour the olive oil , add the sausage without the casing and cook it over medium-high heat while breaking it up with the help of a spatula or wooden spoon.
To add a spicy touch, open a chili pepper , remove the seeds , and slice it thinly .
Season the browning sausage with smoked paprika , the sliced chili pepper , and deglaze with red wine .
Once the alcohol smell has evaporated, add the tomato paste and season with pepper . Continue cooking on medium-low heat for another 15 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the salad by chopping cherry tomatoes into chunks .
Slice the spring onion and chop the parsley . Combine the chopped tomatoes in a bowl with the spring onion .
Add the fresh parsley and season with a drizzle of oil and salt .
Squeeze the juice of half a lime and your tomato salad is ready. For a touch of freshness, pour yogurt into a bowl along with sour cream , and scent with lime zest
Mix well to combine the ingredients . Now you can start filling your quick tacos. Begin by filling each taco with a generous amount of cooked sausage , then the tomato and spring onion salad ,
Pour a few spoonfuls of yogurt sauce . You can serve your tacos in a baking dish , or on a cutting board for a delicious centerpiece !
Quick tacos can be stored in the refrigerator for up to two days, but it's recommended to fill them at the moment to prevent the tacos from losing their crunchiness.
For an extra touch of crispiness, before filling them, heat your tacos in a fan oven at 375°F for about 7 minutes. For a vegetarian version, sauté zucchini, carrots, and eggplants in a pan, seasoning them at the end with salt, smoked paprika, and a few drops of Tabasco!

