name:
Baked Cod Fillets
ingredients:
Cod fillet: 14oz(400 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(50 g)
Lemons: 1
Almond slices: 1tbsp(15 g)
Thyme: 3sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
All about cod! All of Italy venerates this blue fish with its delicate and lean flesh. Loved for its simplicity with recipes like pan-seared cod , crispy pan-seared cod and also known in its salted and dried variants for the preparation of succulent recipes such as Venetian creamed salt cod with its inseparable white polenta, the flavorful Neapolitan-style baked cod , which doesn't fear mopping up with bread, to the tasty sweet and sour bites of Sweet and Sour Ligurian Cod . Today, however, we present it in all its freshness in a simple but tasty preparation, quick to prepare: baked cod fillets! All the tenderness of this Atlantic fish enclosed in a crispy breading with classic breadcrumbs, slivered almonds, and the aroma of lemon zest: in a few words, an irresistible baked cod! Pair the cod with some tasty baked vegetables to complete the dish with flavor!
To prepare the baked cod fillets, first take care of the breading. Pour the breadcrumbs into a bowl, add thyme , lemon zest , and juice .
Then add the slivered almonds , season with salt , pepper, and mix everything together .
Now take care of the cod fillets: remove any bones present with a pair of kitchen tweezers , to check for them, caress the fillets with your hands to feel where they are. Place the fillets in a bowl, distribute half the dose of olive oil and the almond breading you previously prepared on top.
Massage the fillets so that the breading sticks on all sides . Now take a baking dish, drizzle the bottom with the remaining olive oil and lay the breaded cod fillets inside .
Add the rest of the breading and proceed with cooking: bake the fillets in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 15-20 minutes or until the fillets form a crispy crust on the surface. Once cooked, remove the baking dish from the oven and serve the baked cod fillets hot .
It is recommended to consume the baked cod fillets immediately and to store them in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day. It is possible to freeze the cod if you have used fresh ingredients.
This can also be done with perch, plaice, or, why not, even with other freshwater fish.

