name:
Cuttlefish Stew
ingredients:
Cuttlefish: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Peeled plum tomatoes: 3cups(700 g)
White onions: 1 ½cup(160 g)
White wine: 2.5oz(70 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Highly appreciated in Mediterranean cuisine, cuttlefish are the protagonists of many tasty home recipes, like the one we propose. Stewed cuttlefish, in fact, are a main course that certainly falls into this category. They are easy to make and will win over lovers of this particularly simple and appetizing cooking method, to try also with squid . No one will be able to resist making a 'scarpetta' in the sauce, which will have absorbed all their flavor. And if there is some sauce left over, use it to dress pasta... we love using spaghetti or paccheri! If, instead, you prefer to enjoy this dish as is, cut some slices of bread to serve with your stewed cuttlefish, we assure you that you won't be able to do without it for a rustic and genuine fish dinner. Try also the version of stewed cuttlefish without tomato and other cuttlefish recipes not to be missed:
To prepare the stewed cuttlefish start by chopping the onion . In a saucepan pour the oil, add the onion and stew on low heat for about 10 minutes. When the onion has wilted add the datterini tomatoes .
Salt , pepper and cover with a lid . Lower the heat and let cook for 20-25 minutes on low flame, from when it starts to boil. In the meantime clean the cuttlefish. Detach the tuft from the mantle .
Clean the inside of the head and remove the beak located in the center of the tentacles . Cut the cuttlefish into a half inch rings .
Take another skillet, pour a bit of oil, a clove of garlic and let it brown. Add the cuttlefish and sauté for 2/3 minutes on high heat. When the cooking liquid has dried up, deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate completely. Then remove the garlic.
Pour the cuttlefish into the saucepan with the tomato and let cook for 15-20 minutes . From time to time, taste the cuttlefish to check the doneness. After the cooking time, add a nice sprinkling of chopped parsley and serve .
You can keep the stewed cuttlefish in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
If you have used all fresh ingredients it is also possible to freeze them.
You can use tomato passata, pulp, or even peeled tomatoes instead of datterini. Cuttlefish tend, by nature, to have a slightly tough texture. It's difficult to indicate an exact cooking time as it varies according to the type of cuttlefish, its weight, its size, and the thickness of its skin. It is good to cook on medium-low heat and check the cooking from time to time.

