name:
Air Fryer Chicken Thighs
ingredients:
Chicken Thighs: 4- (about 1.6 lbs)
Coarse salt: 3tsp(15 g)
Ground black pepper: to taste
Sage: 4sprigs
Thyme: 6sprigs
Rosemary: 4sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note For the recipe, we used a 4.4 qts air fryer

instructions:
The chicken thighs are the part of the chicken everyone loves... so tender thanks to the right amount of fat in the meat. We show you how to prepare chicken thighs in the air fryer, for a result very similar to baked chicken thighs , but in much less time! The recipe is very easy, and to enhance the chicken, we decided to create a flavored salt with rosemary, thyme, and sage. These aromatic herbs will give a unique taste and aroma, while thanks to cooking in the air fryer you will get a really crisp skin, which no one will be able to resist, and a soft and moist inside! Discover with us how easy it is to prepare this recipe and accompany the thighs with some air fryer potatoes !
Here are other air fryer recipes not to miss:
To prepare the chicken thighs in the air fryer, first prepare the flavored salt. In the container of a small mixer, strip all the aromatic herbs , then add a few grains of black pepper and the salt . Blend everything until you get a sort of powder .
Now take the thighs and spread the skin well to cover the meat, then oil them thoroughly using a brush or with your hands . Sprinkle the thighs with the flavored salt and massage gently to make it adhere .
Place the thighs inside the basket of the air fryer, making sure they do not overlap . We used a 4.4 qts air fryer. Cook them at 375°F for 30-35 minutes until they are well browned . Then remove them and serve .
We recommend consuming the thighs immediately. Alternatively, you can store them in the fridge for 1-2 days.
If your thighs are bigger, extend the cooking time slightly. To check if they are cooked, pierce the meat with a knife, if the liquid that comes out is clear, it means they are cooked, if it is red, it means the thighs need a few more minutes of cooking, if no liquid comes out, it means they are overcooked. If you want to cook more thighs or have a smaller air fryer, make sure that by placing the thighs inside the basket they do not overlap. You can flavor the oil with paprika, curry, or chili pepper!

