name:
Pasta with Prawns
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 0.7lb(320 g)
Prawns: 2lbs(900 g)- (to be cleaned)
Cherry tomatoes: 0.8cup(180 g)
White wine: 1.8oz(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Lemon peel: 1
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Cherry tomatoes: 3.5oz(100 g)
Shallot: 2
Parsley: 1tuft
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Ground black pepper: to taste
Ground white pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
The pasta with seafood is a classic of Italian cuisine that can be adapted to various types of menus. Pasta with prawns is perfect for any occasion, but we particularly recommend it for Christmas Eve and, why not, also for your New Year's menu! This first course will win you over with its intense flavor and creaminess, achieved without any special tricks but with the help of a good shellfish broth ! In this way, you will not only obtain a creamy dressing without adding fats, but you will also enhance all the flavor and fragrance of the sea! A dish that tastes of the sea, a tasty alternative to the times when, to make a creamy first course, you opted for cream! Complete with grated lemon zest, parsley, and a pinch of chili pepper, and the pasta with prawns will be ready to be served to the applause of everyone! Here are other first courses with shrimp or prawns to try:
To prepare the pasta with prawns, start with the shellfish broth, therefore clean them: remove the head, legs, and shell, then cut along the back and remove the intestine. Set aside the scraps and halve the cherry tomatoes you will need for the broth. Cut the cherry tomatoes into quarters for the dressing . Clean and coarsely chop the shallots . Heat the oil in a large saucepan and add the shallot .
Also add the shrimp scraps and sauté them over high heat stirring and mashing with a wooden spoon, then deglaze with white wine and season with white and black peppercorns .
Add the parsley and the cherry tomatoes cut in half , then cover with water .
Cook over medium heat for about 30 minutes, using a skimmer to remove the foam that will form on the surface . In the meantime, bring a pot of water to a boil to cook the pasta. About 20 minutes into the cooking of the broth, heat the oil in a pan and flavor it for a few minutes with the chili pepper and the clove of garlic in its skin. Add the prawns and sauté for 1-2 minutes, then deglaze with white wine .
When the wine has completely evaporated, remove the garlic and take the prawns out of the pan, leaving the cooking base . Keep the prawns aside covered. Add the cherry tomatoes cut into quarters in the same pan and cook for about 5 minutes .
In the meantime, the water will have come to a boil, so salt it and cook the pasta for half of its cooking time, because it will finish cooking in the pan. In the meantime, strain the broth. Drain the pasta very al dente and transfer it to the pan . Finish cooking the pasta by adding the broth little by little , as for risotto. Once cooked, add the prawns and season with salt and pepper.
Flavor with chopped parsley and grated lemon zest . Your pasta with prawns is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the pasta with prawns immediately.
If you prefer, you can remove the lemon zest or use tomato sauce instead of fresh cherry tomatoes.
Alternatively, linguine will work perfectly in place of spaghetti or spaghettoni!

