name:
Zucchini Velouté
ingredients:
Zucchini: 2lbs(1 kg)
Leeks: 2cups(190 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2.8oz(80 g)-
Vegetable broth: 1.3cups(300 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 3.2oz(90 g)-
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The simplest recipes often conceal the true soul of those who cook. Only the touch, passion, eye, and balance given by the love of those who prepare not only manage to produce a recipe good to eat but also a moment to remember. We offer you a starting point that at home, thanks to your care and the passion you transfer to the dish, becomes a real promise of happiness! In homage to the simplicity of good flavors and no-frills cooking, we propose an enveloping and tasty velouté, the queen of comfort food in spring: the zucchini velouté. A true poetry on the plate, a creamy dish to be served as an entrée or a first course and to be enjoyed warm or cold as you prefer. And if you also can't resist the charm of finger food, you can always decide to serve this delicious velouté in Zucchini caviar with gorgonzola cream perhaps garnished with sautéed vegetables in a pan or boiled cereals like barley and spelt. The dense consistency and bright color of the zucchini velouté will win over your guests and you! And if you love this vegetable, discover all our recipes with zucchini!
To prepare the zucchini velouté, start by making the vegetable broth . Once ready, take care of the leek: remove the ends, keeping only the central part, peel off the first layer and finely slice it . At this point, wash and trim the zucchinis, then cut them into rounds . Pour the oil into a saucepan, let it heat up and add the leeks ;
Wait about 3-4 minutes, until they are softened, stirring occasionally, then add the zucchinis, season with salt and pepper and mix everything . Cook on high heat for 5-6 minutes and add the vegetable broth .
Cook for another 15-20 minutes , then blend everything with an immersion blender until you get a cream .
Add the fresh cream , mix and cook everything for another ten minutes , then pour your zucchini velouté through a strainer
and strain it to get a smooth consistency . Add thyme leaves for flavoring , plate and serve your zucchini velouté !
Store the zucchini velouté for 1-2 days at most in the refrigerator! Freezing is not recommended.
Serve the zucchini velouté adding some crispy croutons or crispy pancetta cubes!

