name:
Arugula Pesto
ingredients:
Arugula: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2cups(150 g)
Pine nuts: 1.8oz(50 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- freshly grated
Pecorino cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)- freshly grated
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Pesto is a versatile cream that lends itself to many variations according to your tastes: zucchini pesto for a very delicate flavor, or on the contrary, mint pesto for a more intense taste, or even green bean or purslane pesto . What we are proposing today is arugula pesto, a very delicate but flavorful dressing, quick to prepare and ideal for dressing pasta in the summer season, given its freshness. With this uniquely flavored cream, you can create tasty fillings like the Stuffed Omelette Roll , and more. You can make excellent first courses using a type of pasta that embraces its creamy consistency, like Tonnarelli with Arugula Pesto , but also meat and fish, to add a refined and particular touch to each of your dishes. It really takes just a few steps to make this delicious condiment!
Try these tasty recipes with arugula pesto:
Discover more delicious Sauces recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the arugula pesto, wash the arugula very well, dry it, and place it in the bowl of a food processor ; also add the pine nuts , Grana Padano PDO
And the Pecorino ; add the whole peeled garlic clove and the salt .
At this point, add a small part of the olive oil . Start to blend everything at low speed and, gradually, add the remaining olive oil in a thin stream , until you get a well-mixed and smooth cream . If you are not going to use the arugula pesto immediately, you can store it in the refrigerator for a few days by placing it in a container with a lid, covered with a drizzle of olive oil. When it's time to mix it with the pasta, you can soften it by stirring in a few tablespoons of the pasta cooking water.
The arugula pesto can be stored for 2-3 days in the refrigerator, in a jar tightly closed and well covered with a layer of oil. Alternatively, it can be frozen in small jars, to then thaw it in the refrigerator or at room temperature.
If you want, you can use wild arugula for an even stronger flavor.

