name:
Homemade hamburger patties
ingredients:
Ground beef: 0.8lb(360 g)- freshly ground
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sage: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Ground beef: 11.6lbs(330 g)- freshly ground
Edam cheese: 3.2oz(90 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Homemade things are much tastier, genuine, and also cheaper. If you want to prepare a fantastic Italian-style Hamburger , follow our recipe for homemade hamburger patties and feel the difference! We have used high-quality ground beef with which you can create 3 delicious meat patty variants: classic, herb, and cheese. Then it's up to you to add the rest! Cheddar, lettuce, and pickles for the classic American cheeseburger , or toma cheese, potatoes, and green sauce for a tasty Piedmontese burgers ... and at this point, why not make the typical burger buns with your own hands? And if beef burgers aren't enough, you can always prepare Chicken Burger ! Unleash your imagination and tell us about your dream sandwich, obviously with a homemade beef hamburger!
To prepare homemade hamburger patties, first divide the ground beef into 3 bowls: 2 of 12.7 oz and one of 11.6 oz. Take a 12.7 oz bowl and add salt and pepper to taste , then mix with your hands .
Place a 4 inch diameter pastry ring on a square of parchment paper, take a portion of meat weighing 6.3 oz and press it inside the pastry ring . Use a meat mallet to obtain an even thickness , then remove the pastry ring . Do the same with the remaining portion of the mixture to make 2 patties.
Now chop the aromatic herbs with a knife and add them to the second bowl with 12.7 oz of meat . Salt, pepper and mix with your hands to obtain a uniform mixture .
Form 2 patties, always assisting yourself with the pastry ring and the meat mallet . Lastly, grate the Edam with a coarse grater .
Add the cheese to the bowl with 11.64 oz of meat , salt, pepper, and mix with your hands, then form the last 2 patties in the same way . Your homemade hamburger patties are ready to be cooked !
Homemade hamburger patties can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with cling film, for a maximum of one day. Alternatively, they can be frozen if you used fresh meat.
Cook the patties for 4-5 minutes on each side on a grill pan or skillet brushed with oil; if you're using a pan, you can add a splash of water after flipping them and finish cooking with the lid so the meat remains tender and juicy. The important thing is not to press or pierce them to avoid losing their juices. Alternatively, you can cook the burger patties in an air fryer !
Customize your homemade beef hamburgers with your favorite herbs and cheeses! If you don't have a meat mallet, you can use the bottom of a glass bowl to level your patties.
• What is the best meat for beef patties?
First and foremost, it should be very fresh, ideally a mixed grind of sirloin, neck, and shank with a fat content of 20-30%. To get the perfect mix, you can buy the meat from your trusted butcher!
• How else can you flavor beef patties?
Beyond the suggestions provided, ground beef can be enriched with dried onions, spicy ingredients such as paprika, 'nduja or chili pepper, or with chopped parsley!
• What is the perfect cooking?
It would be preferable to consume the beef patties medium-cooked, neither rare nor well-done. If you have the tools, try low-temperature cooking which offers enviable tenderness!

