name:
Pistachio Pesto
ingredients:
Unsalted pistachios: 7oz(200 g)- raw (shelled)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.2oz(35 g)- (to be grated)
Lemon peel: ½
Garlic: ½clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 7tbsp(100 g)
Water: 3.4oz(100 g)
Basil: 5leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: High

instructions:
The most well-known pesto is undoubtedly pesto alla Genovese , a timeless condiment that has inspired many other variants like this delicious pistachio pesto. A preparation with a fresh and aromatic taste that enhances the unique and unmistakable flavor of these fruits. The secret to making a delicious pesto is definitely to use top-quality pistachios. Making it is simple: a mix of just blanched pistachios is prepared and flavored with basil, cheese, and lemon zest. This seasoning is perfect for a simple pasta with pistachio pesto , but if you want to enrich the first course with flavors, also try these variants: pasta with pistachio pesto and shrimp , Pasta with Pistachio Pesto and Salmon , gluten-free pasta with pistachio pesto, shrimp, and sun-dried tomatoes , paccheri with pistachio pesto, sausage, and provola or some fantastic pistachio lasagna ! Of course, it can also be enjoyed spread on crispy toasted bread slices served as tantalizing appetizers. Come and discover other enticing pesto recipes to prepare at home:
Discover more delicious Sauces recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make pistachio pesto, start by placing a pot full of water on the heat, bring to a boil and then add the shelled pistachios , cook for 1 minute or the time necessary to soften the skin then drain the pistachios . Transfer onto a kitchen towel .
Keep warm so it will be easier to remove the skin. Remove the skin from the pistachios by rubbing them and collect them in a small bowl . Transfer the pistachios to a blender, pour in the olive oil the grated Grana Padano PDO cheese and the garlic.
Add the water then flavor with the grated zest of the lemon and basil .
Salt and blend the mixture until it becomes a smooth cream . The pistachio pesto is ready for your preparations .
Store the pistachio pesto in the refrigerator for 4-5 days in a jar or freeze it.
You can flavor the pesto with the aromatic herbs you prefer, such as marjoram or mint. If you do not like garlic, you can omit it.

