name:
Spanish Omelette (Tortilla de Patatas)
ingredients:
Eggs: 7- medium
Yellow potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
White onions: 1cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6 ¾tbsp(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time of the potatoes and onions

instructions:
When thinking about Spanish culinary tradition, the paella , sangria , and tapas immediately come to mind! Among these, one of the most famous and appreciated is undoubtedly the tortilla de patatas, a typical potato omelette often served in bars to accompany aperitifs. Here we show you how to prepare the enriched version with onions, but above all, we explain how to achieve the ideal result: a very high omelette that remains soft and succulent inside. A hearty and flavorful dish that you can easily serve as a main course for a tantalizing Iberian-style menu. As with all omelettes, the most challenging part is when it needs to be flipped, but with great care and a bit of practice, we are sure you will make a perfect tortilla de patatas!
Don't miss these tasty Spanish recipes:

To prepare the tortilla de patatas, peel the potatoes , then cut them into sticks and finally into 1/2-inch cubes .
Peel and cut the onion first in half and then into thin slices . Heat a non-stick pan with a diameter of 9.5 inches well, then pour in the abundant oil .
Add the potatoes and cook for 5 minutes on medium heat. After this time, add the onions , cover with the lid , and cook on low heat for 10 minutes.
After 10 minutes, the mixture will be almost cooked , so remove it from the heat and drain the pan's contents with a colander, reserving the oil . Allow the potatoes and onions to cool slightly. Meanwhile, pour the eggs into a bowl and season with salt and pepper.
Beat with a fork , then add the cooled potatoes and onions . Stir to combine the mixture .
In the same pan, add the reserved oil , then pour in the egg, potato, and onion mixture .
Cover with a lid and cook on low heat for 16 minutes . After this time, the edges will start to detach from the pan while the inside will still be slightly runny: it's time to flip the tortilla with the help of a plate .
Shape the edges with a spatula to give the tortilla a nice round shape, then cover with the lid and continue cooking for 4 minutes, still on low heat . Once cooked, turn off the heat and gently slide the tortilla onto a serving plate . Your tortilla de patatas is ready to be served, hot or at room temperature !
The tortilla de patatas can be stored in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container.
Some versions include the addition of jamon (ham) or chorizo (sausage), or you can enrich the tortilla de patatas with green peppers cut into strips!

