name:
Artichoke Pasta
ingredients:
Fusilli pasta: 3cups(320 g)
Artichokes: 6
Shallot: 1
Mint: 10leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Are you one of those who would prefer a bunch of artichokes instead of a bunch of flowers? Then you can't miss today's recipe: artichoke pasta! A very simple first course but full of flavor. The taste of artichokes will be enhanced to the fullest: we chose to blend part of the artichokes and leave others whole, to achieve a creamy first course and also enjoy their texture. The fusilli will blend perfectly with this cream, but you can choose to use the pasta shape you love the most. Mint will give a truly unique fragrance! Gather relatives and friends, artichoke pasta is perfect for a family lunch or a casual dinner! Discover our best artichoke recipes and these first courses:
To prepare artichoke pasta, first take care of cleaning the artichokes. Remove the tougher outer leaves, shorten and clean the stem and base, cutting away the tips . Then split the artichoke in half and remove the inner fuzz . Now slice the artichokes thinly. Move on to the shallot: peel it, slice it and chop it finely.
Fry the shallot in a large pan with a generous amount of oil. When the shallot is well wilted, add the artichokes . Sauté them for a minute then add water (about 3 and 1/3 tbsps) and salt .
Cover and cook for about 15 minutes so that the artichokes are nice and tender. In the meantime, put a pot of salted water on the heat for cooking the pasta. Once the artichokes are cooked, take about 1/3 of them and transfer them to a bowl . Add some pasta cooking water and blend to obtain a smooth cream .
Cook the pasta al dente and in the meantime cut the mint leaves into strips , taking care not to pass over them too many times with the knife. Drain the pasta and transfer it to the pan with the artichokes. Add the cream and adjust the consistency with pasta cooking water, letting it risotto for a couple of minutes so that it blends with the seasoning. Finish with a drizzle of oil , mint and a grind of black pepper. Saute and plate!
You can store the artichoke pasta for a maximum of 1 day in the refrigerator.

If you do not use the artichokes immediately, keep them in acidulated water to prevent them from blackening. A grating of lemon zest is also great for finishing the dish. If the stems are very long and fleshy, peel them thoroughly, cut them into chunks, and cook them separately to obtain the cream. Alternatively, they are good cooked like cardoons.

