name:
Eggplant mushroom-style (melanzane a funghetto)
ingredients:
Eggplant: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (long purple type)
Cluster tomatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Basil: 10leaves
Garlic: 2cloves
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Peanut seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
We like eggplants in all ways, baked, au gratin and as we present them today: eggplant mushroom-style! In Campania, it is known as melanzane a funghetto , a side dish mainly for summer. The name comes from the way of cutting the eggplant into small pieces that resemble mushrooms. There are many variations of this recipe: some fry in olive oil and some prefer seed oil, some use tomato paste or opt for the white version. Eggplant mushroom-style is good both warm and cold and is also ideal for flavoring pasta, perhaps adding some sweet provola or salted ricotta. However you decide to prepare it, eggplant mushroom-style is a tasty and fragrant dish that you can enjoy after a hearty Neapolitan pasta and potatoes , or even by itself accompanied by fragrant croutons of bread... just like zucchini alla scapece , another great Campanian classic not to be missed!
Here are other delicious eggplant dishes:
To prepare the eggplant mushroom-style, first wash the plum tomatoes and dice them . Now in a pan pour a generous amount of oil and two cloves of garlic , let it flavor, add the tomatoes and cook over low heat for about 20/25 minutes.
Wash and trim the eggplants . Cut the eggplants into cubes of about 1 inch . In a pot, heat the seed oil, when it has reached 340°F, fry the eggplants a bit at a time .
Once they are well browned , drain them on frying paper or a kitchen paper towel. Once the sauce is ready, you can remove the garlic cloves .
Salt , pepper and let the sauce cool down. Finally, combine the eggplants with the sauce .
Season with torn basil leaves and gently mix . The 'eggplant mushroom-style' is ready to be enjoyed .
The 'eggplant mushroom-style' can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. It can be frozen after cooking.
You can purge the eggplants after cutting them, that is, salt them and leave them for a few hours in a colander so that they lose their vegetation water. In this way, the eggplants will be drier and you will achieve a perfect frying!

