name:
Chickpea balls
ingredients:
Precooked chickpeas: 2cups(500 g)- (already drained)
White bread loaf: 2.1oz(60 g)- (without crust)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Eggs: 1
Tomato paste: 1tsp
Mustard: 1tsp
Garlic powder: 1pinch
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 4.6oz(130 g)
Eggs: 3
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Peanut seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)- for frying

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
The meatballs can be prepared in many ways, including vegetarian, like our chickpea balls. They are prepared in no time, because it's enough to blend the pre-cooked chickpeas with the other ingredients, roll everything in a delicious flavored breading and off to fry! A super crunchy result, which hides a melting heart: the chickpea balls in fact are filled with provola! Perfect for aperitif, one leads to another! We are sure they will become your favorite vegetarian balls along with zucchini balls , eggplant balls or the vegetable balls mix.
Discover other recipes to make with chickpeas:
To prepare chickpea balls as the first thing chop the parsley and set it aside. In the mixer jar pour the previously rinsed and drained chickpeas . Add the grated Grana Padano .
Also add the bread cut into small cubes , the chopped parsley , and the tomato paste .
Add also the mustard , the dry garlic , the pepper, the salt, and the egg .
Blend everything until you get a smooth and moldable mixture, a bit like a very thick hummus . Cut the provola into very small pieces . Now compose the balls: take about 1 oz of mixture with oiled or moistened hands and slightly flatten it inside the hand.
Insert some pieces of provola inside and close to obtain a round ball, which encloses the cheese inside . Now in a baking dish pour the breadcrumbs, add more chopped parsley and a pinch of pepper . Mix.
Deal with the breading. Dip each ball in the egg, beaten with a pinch of salt and then in the just prepared breadcrumbs . As the balls are ready arrange them on a small tray .
At the time of frying, heat the oil to 320-340°F. As soon as it has reached the right temperature dip a few pieces at a time . Cook until they are well browned and drain on paper straw . Lightly salt and serve your chickpea balls with the sauce you love most .
You can store the balls in the fridge for 1 day before frying them.
Once fried it is good to consume them immediately, but they can be stored for 1-2 days.
Instead of sandwich bread, you can use bread crumbs, always without crust.
Depending on the type of bread used or the size of the egg, the consistency may vary a bit. Always make sure to obtain a soft but moldable dough. If it is too moist, you can add a bit of breadcrumbs, if too dry add a little oil or water.
For a non-fried version, bake the balls in a static oven at 390°F for 20 min.

