name:
Burrito
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(350 g)
Water: 6.7oz(190 g)- lukewarm
Lard: 1.1oz(30 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 1tsp(6 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
Ground beef: 1lb(450 g)
Precooked black beans: 14.1oz(400 g)- (weight not drained)
Red peppers: 1cup(150 g)
Tomato purée: 1cup(250 g)
Meat broth: 2.1cups(500 g)
Red onions: 5.3oz(150 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Powdered coriander: 1tsp
Powdered cumin: 1tsp
Brown sugar: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Edam cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Corn: 1cup(160 g)
Avocado: 1
Lime: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 2 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the time taken to prepare the meat broth

instructions:
Like the Fajitas , the burrito is a recipe that blurs the lines between Mexico and the United States. Given the use of flour tortillas , larger and more elastic compared to corn tortillas and therefore more suitable for wrapping a generous filling, it is believed that the burrito was invented in the northernmost part of Mexico and then spread across the border... here it probably met chili , a Texan specialty, and one of the most delicious recipes of Tex-Mex cuisine was born! We have made the classic version of the burrito, filled with beef, Mexican Beans and cheese, and enriched it with corn and avocado for a tasty colorful note: but this street food allows for endless customization, further personalizing it by adding salad, tomatoes, sauces, or even rice to make it an even more complete and substantial single dish!
Try these burrito variants as well:
To make the burrito, first prepare the beef broth for the chili, then move on to preparing the ingredients: clean the bell pepper and cut it into pieces or strips, then thinly slice the onion and garlic. Finally, slice the chili into rounds .
Heat a swirl of oil in a pot (preferably cast iron), add the ground meat and brown it over medium-high heat stirring well. Season with salt and pepper. When the bottom has dried out, deglaze with a ladle of broth and let it evaporate. Transfer the meat to a bowl and set aside .
In the same pot, pour another swirl of oil and add the chili, garlic , onion, and bell peppers , then season with salt and pepper.
Season with brown sugar, cumin, and coriander powder . Sauté well, then deglaze with a ladle of broth and cook over medium-high heat for 10 minutes . When the vegetables have softened, add the previously browned ground meat .
Pour the tomato puree and the remaining broth . Cover with the lid and let simmer over medium-low heat for 60 minutes, stirring occasionally and checking that it does not dry out too much; the cooking progress depends on the type of pot, so you will need to adjust according to the pot used.
While the chili is cooking, prepare the flour tortillas: pour the flour and lard into a bowl and pinch with your fingertips to mix, then add the salt and instant yeast .
Add the warm water and start kneading with your hands . Continue to work on the work surface until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough; it will take about 5 minutes. Form a ball , cover with the bowl, and let rest for about 30 minutes.
After the resting time, divide the dough into 4 portions and form balls . Roll out each ball with a rolling pin on a lightly floured surface until you get a very thin disk with a diameter of 10 1/2 inches . As you roll out the disks, make sure to keep the rest of the dough covered with a cloth to prevent it from drying out.
In the meantime, heat a cast iron (or non-stick, alternatively) skillet very well. Once hot, place the first tortilla and cook for 40 seconds on one side and 40 seconds on the other . Transfer the cooked tortilla to a plate and cover with a cloth while you proceed with cooking the others .
After the 60 minutes of cooking the chili, add the beans with their preserving liquid , cover again with the lid, and cook for another 40 minutes, always over medium-low heat. Once ready, remove the pot from the stove and let the chili con carne cool down slightly . In the meantime, prepare the ingredients you will use to stuff the tortillas. You are ready to assemble your burritos: lay the tortillas on the cutting board and place a generous ladle of slightly cooled chili in the center, then distribute about 1 oz of sliced or grated edam cheese . Also, add any other ingredients, like corn and avocado.
First close the sides of the tortilla , then fold the bottom part over the filling and roll the tortilla from the bottom up, keeping the closure downwards .
Heat a non-stick pan well with a drizzle of oil, place the burrito with the closure facing down and brown it on all sides, so as to also melt the cheese . Transfer the burritos to a cutting board, cut them in half, and enjoy them while still warm !
It is recommended to enjoy the burrito immediately after preparation.
The chili con carne can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days or can be frozen, after it has been completely cooled down.
You can also enrich your burrito with sauces like guacamole or pico de gallo , or How to make sour cream as an alternative!
Using lard gives the tortillas a particularly soft texture, perfect for this recipe, but if you prefer, you can replace it with the same amount of vegetable oil. The important thing is to cook them briefly, otherwise they will dry out!

