name:
Tagliatelle with white ragù
ingredients:
Egg Tagliatelle pasta: 8.8oz(250 g)
Beef: 8.8oz(250 g)- ground
Sausage: 5.3oz(150 g)- fresh
Pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)-
Celery: 2.1oz(60 g)
Carrots: 2oz(60 g)
Yellow onions: 2.1oz(60 g)
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: 2oz(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Sage: 3leaves
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
What extraordinary flavors and aromas are released from a good plate of tagliatelle with ragù! This time, however, we wanted to revisit this great classic, a must-have in every Sunday lunch, by offering you tagliatelle with white ragù, a version without tomato that is equally tasty and enriched with diced pancetta for a unique flavor that pairs perfectly with egg pasta. Rough and porous, the egg tagliatelle hold the appetizing meat and vegetable sauce, giving us emotions of rediscovered childhood memories. The choice of simple and genuine ingredients, the aroma of aromatic herbs, and a slow cooking over low heat make this dressing truly irresistible and also suitable for preparing lasagne, cannelloni, or savory crepes! Tagliatelle with white ragù is a tasty alternative to ragù alla bolognese or the classic genovese , but if you are looking for a new and original pairing, also try the very fresh Tagliatelle with bottarga, clams, and lemon !
To prepare tagliatelle with white ragù, start from the sauté . In a pan, heat the oil with a clove of garlic and let it brown . Add the finely chopped celery and carrot .
Also add the chopped onion and mix with a spatula . Let it cook for a few minutes over low heat; in the meantime, strip the rosemary
and chop it with a knife , then add it to the sauté . Wash and dry the sage, strip it
and chop it finely ; add it to the rest of the sauté and finally season with two whole bay leaves .
Cut the pancetta into cubes and sauté it with the vegetables , stirring with a spatula .
Now take care of the sausage: score the outer casing lengthwise with a knife and remove it with your fingers ; crumble the sausage .
Add it to the sauce along with the ground meat and cook over high heat, stirring with a spatula to further break it up. Cook everything for a few minutes.
Remove the garlic clove and the bay leaves and deglaze with white wine .
When the wine has evaporated, continue cooking by adding a ladle of hot water , adjust with salt and pepper, and cook over low heat for about an hour , adding more water if necessary. After the necessary time, turn off the heat. When there is half an hour left to cook, put a pot with plenty of water on to boil: when it boils, salt to taste and boil the tagliatelle, leaving them al dente .
Drain the pasta al dente and transfer it directly into the pan with the now-ready ragù . Mix well the pasta and thicken the sauce adding a little pasta cooking water if necessary . Serve your tagliatelle with white ragù while still steaming hot .
Tagliatelle with white ragù can be stored in the refrigerator, sealed in an airtight container, for up to 1 day. If fresh ingredients were used, the white ragù can be frozen.
For the white ragù, you can also use turkey, pork, veal, or rabbit meat. You can flavor it with sausages such as soppressata or even with porcini mushrooms that have been previously soaked and well squeezed.

