name:
Baked Meatballs
ingredients:
Beef: 0.9lb(400 g)- (ground)
Sausage: 7.1oz(200 g)
Garlic: ½clove
Stale bread: 3.5oz(100 g)- (crumb only)
Pecorino cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- (to be grated)
Eggs: 2
Parsley: 1tuft
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Meat broth: 5.3oz(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Often served fried or with sauce, meatballs are one of the most beloved main courses. But have you ever tried baking them? If you haven't because you were afraid they would be too dry, with our recipe you will achieve a truly succulent result! The mixture is the classic one, enriched with sausage and cheese for truly tasty meatballs. Baked in the oven, thanks to the addition of the broth, the meatballs will be tender and juicy. Round and soft, these meatballs will please everyone, adults and children alike, thanks to their bold flavor, and preparing them will be really simple. Serve the baked meatballs with mashed potatoes or a simple mixed salad. Here are other meatball recipes to try:
To prepare the baked meatballs, first transfer the stale breadcrumbs into a bowl . Add water to cover it and let it soak for a few minutes .
In the meantime, finely chop the garlic and parsley . Now take the sausage, cut the casing and remove it . Then transfer the sausage meat into a bowl, crumbling it with your hands .
In the same bowl, add the ground meat , the well-squeezed breadcrumbs , and the eggs .
Now add the previously chopped garlic and parsley , the grated Parmigiano Reggiano and Pecorino . Knead well with your hands .
Season with salt and pepper and knead again until you get a homogeneous mixture , it will take at least 5 minutes. Now cover with a plate and place in the fridge for 15 minutes. After the resting time, you can form the meatballs. For each, you will need about 1 oz of mixture and you should give them a spherical shape, by rolling the mixture between your hands .
Arrange them on a tray as you go , you will get 30. Now grease a baking dish and place the meatballs inside , then pour in the warm broth .
Bake in a preheated conventional oven at 355°F for 15 minutes, then take out the meatballs and turn them . Bake for another 15 minutes at the same temperature with the convection mode. Take out and serve your hot meatballs with the cooking sauce .
The baked meatballs can be stored for a couple of days in the fridge. The covered mixture can last up to 12 hours in the fridge. The raw meatballs can be frozen and thawed before use.
The beef broth is used to make the meatballs softer and tastier, if you don't have it you can use a good vegetable broth.
Looking for a vegetarian variant? Try the Baked Pumpkin Meatballs !

