name:
Soft Shortcrust Pastry
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Butter: 1.1cups(250 g)- at room temperature
Powdered sugar: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Eggs: 2- (medium) at room temperature
Baking powder: 1.9tsp(8 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time in the refrigerator (1 h)

instructions:
Soft shortcrust pastry is a basic recipe you won't want to give up! Compared to the traditional shortcrust , this version will give you a softer and more delicate texture, perfect for tarts that melt in your mouth, tender cookies, and many other shortcrust desserts. The magic of soft shortcrust pastry lies in the balance between its few ingredients: softened butter, eggs, powdered sugar, and flour combine into a dough that remains compact yet elastic. What makes the difference is the yeast, which makes the shortcrust even more crumbly and pleasant on the palate. Once tried, you'll want to use it on every occasion. Prepare the soft shortcrust pastry with our recipe; it might just become your favorite!
Also try these other shortcrust variations:

To prepare the soft shortcrust pastry, first let the butter rest at room temperature for 20 minutes. Place it in the stand mixer and add the powdered sugar . Turn the machine on, using the leaf attachment, at medium-low speed. Once you have a smooth and homogeneous cream, add the eggs, also at room temperature . Once the eggs are absorbed, pour in the sifted flour .
Add the sifted yeast and continue to work with the stand mixer just long enough to combine the ingredients . Move to your work surface and quickly compact the dough into a loaf .
Place the loaf on a sheet of parchment paper , flatten it and close it into a sort of package . Roll out the shortcrust slightly with a rolling pin , this way it will be easier to work with. Let the loaf rest in the refrigerator for an hour. With these soft shortcrust pastry amounts, you can make a 9 1/2-inch diameter tart with lattice or about 2.2 lbs of cookies!
The soft shortcrust pastry can be stored uncooked in the refrigerator for 2-3 days or in the freezer for a month.
Once baked, you can store the shortcrust in a cool, dry place for 3-4 days in an airtight container.
You can flavor the soft shortcrust with orange zest or with the seeds from a vanilla bean.
If you don't have a stand mixer, you can knead the shortcrust in a bowl following the same order of ingredients.
If you want to make a tart, roll out the shortcrust to a thickness of about 5/16 inch and bake in a static oven at 340°F for 30 minutes.
For cookies, roll out the shortcrust always to about 5/16 inch thick, cut out discs with a cookie cutter, and bake in a static oven at 340°F for 20 minutes. If you have time, place the tray with the raw cookies in the fridge for half an hour before baking: this way, they will hold their shape well.
There is no fixed rule, and the advice is to follow the specific recipe being made. However, for tarts, generally, it is preferable to create a sheet about 5/16 inch thick and bake in a static oven at a temperature between 300°F-340°F for 30 minutes. For cookies or blind baking tarts, about 355°F in a static oven.

