name:
Legume and Grain Soup
ingredients:
Dried lentils: 3 ½cups(100 g)
Peeled red lentils: ½cup(100 g)
Dried peas: 3 ½cups(100 g)
Dried Borlotti beans: ½cup(100 g)
Dried cannellini beans: 1cup(100 g)
Spelt: 150g(150 g)
Pearl barley: ¾cup(150 g)
Carrots: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Celery: 1cup(120 g)
Yellow onions: 1
Potatoes: 0.75lb(360 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 1cup(250 g)
Bay leaves: to taste
Sage: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Water: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note plus soaking time for the legumes

instructions:
The legume and grain soup is a first course very simple to prepare, healthy, and substantial. Enriched with vegetables and aromatic herbs, the legume and grain soup is ideal to be eaten warm and steaming during the cold winter days. A comfort food to prepare at home, with various types of legumes and grains. Today we propose a version with peas, lentils, beans, barley, and spelt, but you can customize it according to your tastes with the ingredients you love most. Potatoes will give the right creaminess, so try not to replace them. If you have cheese rinds or leftovers in the refrigerator, also add them to the soup during cooking: you will see what a flavor! The legume and grain soup is a substantial first course that, due to its nutritional characteristics, can also be considered a balanced single dish.
Here are other soups not to be missed:
To prepare the legume and grain soup, first, soak the beans overnight or for the time indicated on their package. Then place them in a large pot and fill it with cold water . Cook for 1 hour from the first boil . You can flavor the water with garlic and bay leaves but do not salt it at all, otherwise, the legumes will harden.
In the meantime, dice the peeled carrot , celery , and onion into about 1/2 of an inch cubes.
Peel the potatoes and cut them into cubes . Tie the herbs tightly , this way they will be easy to remove at the end of cooking. Shred the tomatoes. Rinse all the legumes and grains. In the meantime, drain the beans. Do not worry if they are still slightly hard, as they will cook further. Pour a good amount of oil at the bottom of a large saucepan. First, add the onion and sauté, stirring for 3-4 minutes.
Then add celery and carrot and sauté for another 2 or 3 minutes. At this point, add the barley and the spelt .
Add the two types of lentils, the peas , and the drained beans . Pour in about 2 quarts of water .
Add the tomatoes , the bouquet garni , and the diced potatoes .
Stir and cover with the lid . Let it cook from the boiling point for about 40 minutes, over moderate heat, adding more water as needed to adjust the density. Towards the end of cooking, therefore remove the bouquet and season generously with salt and pepper . Stir well. Let it rest a few minutes, and serve with a drizzle of raw oil.
The soup can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Keep in mind that it will tend to "grow," that is, legumes and grains will absorb all the broth, and the soup will become almost solid. In this case, add water, adjust the salt and pepper again to compensate, and put everything back on the fire. If there's a dish that is also good overcooked, that dish is a soup, and whoever started using reheated soup as a pathetic metaphor must have never tasted one done properly.
Instead of individual legumes and grains, you can use a convenient mix (17.6-24.7 oz), bought in bulk. In this case, follow the times reported on the package. You can vary the quality of the legumes, but keep in mind that if you insert, for example, chickpeas, they will have different soaking and cooking times. You can consider using pre-cooked ones. You can flavor the soup with properly scraped cheese rinds. When it's pumpkin season, you can use it instead of carrots or potatoes During cooking, you will need to add more water to adjust the density. You will reach a total of 2 1/2 to 3.2 quarts, but do not add them all at the beginning because, as grandmothers teach, adding is easier than taking away, and no one likes a watery soup where the starches struggle to do their job: a good legume and grain soup should be thick and blended.

