name:
Tuna and Ricotta Balls
ingredients:
Tuna in oil: 8oz(230 g)- drained
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Anchovies: 0.7oz(20 g)- fillets in oil
Salted capers: 4tsp(20 g)
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(50 g)
Parsley: 1tbsp(8 g)- to be chopped
Eggs: 2
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 1.4oz(40 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Tuna and ricotta balls are a quick and easy appetizer, ideal to be served also as a main course: a simple and economical variant of the classic fish balls, as well as a different way to eat the usual canned tuna, a precious dinner-saving ingredient that is always at home! The crispy breading wraps the softness of the inside, given by the tuna mixed with ricotta and flavored with capers and anchovies. Discover the recipe for tuna and ricotta balls and prepare plenty because they will disappear in a flash!
Also try the variant of tuna and potato balls or our tasty spinach croquettes.
To prepare the tuna and ricotta balls, start by making the mixture. In a bowl, combine the ricotta, grated Parmigiano Reggiano , crumbled tuna , and drained anchovies .
Add the capers (previously rinsed), chopped parsley, breadcrumbs , and finally the lightly beaten eggs , then start to mix the mixture with a fork .
Mix all the ingredients together , add salt and pepper, and finish kneading with your hands until you have a compact and homogeneous mixture : if the mixture is too soft you can add a bit more cheese, otherwise, you can soften it with a few drops of milk. At this point, slightly moisten your hands and take small portions of the mixture weighing about 1 ounce each to which you will give the classic ball shape, round and slightly flattened .
After forming all the balls , coat them in breadcrumbs and heat the seed oil in a small pot to a temperature of 355°F. Fry a few balls at a time : it will take just a few moments to make them nice and golden.
Once the balls are golden, drain them and transfer them to kitchen paper towels to remove excess oil . Serve your tuna and ricotta balls while still hot !
You can freeze the tuna and ricotta balls while raw and then thaw and fry them as needed. Once cooked, you can eat them immediately or store them in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for a maximum of 1-2 days.
To accompany the ricotta and tuna balls, you can opt for a mixed salad or julienned carrots, maybe dressed with a tasty vinaigrette. If you want to avoid frying, you can also bake the ricotta and tuna balls in the oven at 390°F for 15 minutes, or until they are golden.

