name:
Pasta and Peas
ingredients:
Ditaloni rigati pasta: 11.3cups(320 g)
Peas: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- fresh whole peas to shell
Fresh scallion: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 30g(30 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
If you're looking for an answer to the question "What can I make for dinner tonight?" here's our easy and quick suggestion to bring a simple yet tasty first course to the table: pasta and peas. With just a few ingredients and easy to make, pasta and peas is undoubtedly a genuine and at the same time tantalizing dinner-saving solution. This first course simply enhances the unmistakable taste of the undisputed protagonists of the spring season: peas. These delicious pearls with their bright color and sweet flavor make the dishes of our spring menus appealing, whether you choose a creamy Pea Velouté to enjoy on evenings when you want to pamper yourself with a warm and enveloping comfort food or if you feel like trying a fresh and tantalizing dish like whole wheat spaghetti with pea pesto, sun-dried tomatoes and stracciatella, a true hymn to Mediterranean flavors! For a more unique and tantalizing version, a bit different from the usual, also try:
To make the pasta and peas, start by bringing water to a boil in a large pot and salt it once it boils: you'll need this later to cook the pasta. Meanwhile, shell the peas and collect them in a bowl , then take the spring onion, remove the base, cut it in half lengthwise and then slice each half , this will make it easier to chop. Pour the olive oil into a pan, heat it up and then add the just sliced spring onion ,
moisten with a ladle of the pasta cooking water and let it stew for about 10-15 minutes or until it becomes soft (if it dries out too much, add more pasta cooking water). Once the spring onion is stewed, also add the shelled fresh peas ,salt, pepper and add another ladle of pasta cooking water ; cook for about 10 minutes.
Now boil the pasta for only 5 minutes (or half the time indicated on the package) because then it will finish cooking in the pan with the peas; stirring it in this way will ensure it becomes more flavorful. Drain the pasta with a slotted spoon directly into the pan with the peas , finish cooking the pasta by gradually adding the pasta cooking water, making sure to wait for the liquid to be well absorbed before adding more . It will take about 5 minutes.
Once cooked, season with grated Parmigiano Reggiano , mix to flavor, salt, and pepper to taste. Your pasta and peas is ready , serve it hot!
Store the pasta and peas for a maximum of one day, in the refrigerator in an airtight container. Freezing pasta and peas is not recommended, however, it is possible to freeze the cooked peas if you have used fresh ones.
Want to add an aromatic note to your pasta and peas? A sprinkle of nutmeg for spice lovers or a few leaves of thyme is the perfect solution for those who can't do without aromatic herbs!

