name:
Churros
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(145 g)
Water: 1cup(250 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Olive oil: 34oz(1 l)
Sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 22 pieces
Cost: Average
Note WARNING! Preparing churros can involve risk situations during the frying phase

instructions:
Churros are a delicious specialty of Spanish and Latin American cuisine. It is recommended to pay the utmost attention to avoid burns while cooking churros. Follow the information in the video and on the recipe card exactly. These fragrant fried sticks covered in sugar are sold on every street corner and are consumed both as a snack and for breakfast, especially on holidays! To prepare churros, you only need three ingredients, namely flour, water, and salt: it's a dough with a neutral taste similar to choux pastry that is shaped with the help of a special syringe, called churrera , and fried in olive oil (read carefully the warnings reported in the advice to avoid accidents with boiling oil during frying). However, there are many variants of these desserts that involve enriching the dough with cocoa or cinnamon, for example, or with butter and eggs, as in our recipe for delicious churros. Just as there are many ways to enjoy them... dipped in hot chocolate in Spain, sprinkled with sugar and cinnamon in Mexico or stuffed with dulce de leche in Argentina! And you, how do you prefer them?
WARNINGS BEFORE PREPARING CHURROS
Preparing churros can involve risk situations during the frying phase.
In our kitchens, we have tried the recipe several times to ensure that the information reported in the video and on the website and app was correct and so that - by following it exactly - churros could be prepared without unusual consequences.
We have also tried different situations to understand if there was a particular reason why, as we have also been told, the churros burst during cooking. We have therefore tried:
In all the cases mentioned nothing unusual happened, there were no abnormal splashes of hot oil nor other anomalous manifestations.
Despite this, we invite you to be extremely cautious when frying. Avoid using improper tools or making careless mistakes that could turn out to be very dangerous. Do not bring your face close to the pot when inserting the churros, pay a lot of attention while dipping them in the hot oil. If they start to "explode", turn off the heat and stop frying.
To prepare the churros, pour the water and salt into a pot and bring to a boil. Meanwhile, sift the flour into a separate bowl .
When the water has come to a boil , add all the flour at once and immediately stir with a wooden spoon .
Continue to stir over low heat until the mixture is compact and homogeneous and a white film forms on the bottom of the pot . Transfer the mixture to a bowl . When it has cooled down, work it for a moment by hand on the work surface to give it the right shape to insert it into the special tool for creating churros, the churrera . The use of a piping bag is discouraged because it might cause problems during frying.
Press with the back of the spoon and close . From this moment, you must pay the utmost attention, during the phase when the oil is heated to temperature and especially the frying phase as the churros could burst causing dangerous burns . Heat the olive oil to a temperature of 320°-338°F, then squeeze the mixture directly into the boiling oil, cutting it to a length of about 4 inches with the help of a slightly greased knife . Fry with extreme caution and numerous precautions the churros for 3-4 minutes until golden .
Drain the churros on paper towels , then roll them in granulated sugar, if desired . Your churros are ready to be enjoyed while still warm !
It is recommended to consume the churros immediately!
We recommend caution when frying, always and especially during the cooking of churros, following the instructions provided in the procedure to avoid as much as possible dangerous situations with the use of boiling oil. Being free of fats, the churros dough is quite hard and compact: for this reason, it is necessary to use the special tool. Piping bags are not suitable for this preparation. If you prefer, you can fry in seed oil instead of olive oil: you will get a bit paler churros but just as delicious!

