name:
Castagnole
ingredients:
Butter: 1.4oz(40 g)- (soft)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Eggs: 2
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Lemon peel: ½
Anise liqueur: 1spoonful
Salt: 1pinch
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Sugar: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Castagnole, zeppole, and tortelli , are just some of the names these Carnival recipes go by, which, along with chiacchiere , are typical of the period. Among confetti, streamers, and masks, castagnole are a must-have! Originally from Romagna, these small fritters are crispy on the outside and soft on the inside... rolling them in granulated sugar will make everyone's mouth water! The most classic version involves the use of anise, but we recommend experimenting with other flavors to find your perfect recipe! Despite their origin, castagnole are prepared and enjoyed in many regions of Italy.
Here are other Carnival fritters not to miss:
Discover also our fried or baked Carnival sweets!
To prepare castagnole, first work the soft butter with a spoon; add the vanilla pod seeds and grated lemon zest . Mix until you get a smooth cream . In another bowl, pour the flour and sugar .
Then sift the baking powder into it and add the salt, lightly beaten eggs , and flavored butter .
Add also the anise liqueur and mix first with a spoon and then by hand .
You should get a smooth dough . Cover it with a plate or plastic wrap and let it rest for 30 minutes . Then transfer to a lightly floured work surface .
Form a log and using a dough cutter, cut out about 35 pieces of 0.4 oz each . Then shape them into balls . If you prepare all the balls at once they may dry out a bit, so we recommend covering them or shaping and frying them as you go.
When the oil has reached 340°F, immerse a few castagnole at a time using a skimmer, or a kitchen spider . Cook them for 2-3 minutes, turning them until they are golden brown . Then drain them .
Transfer them to a paper towel or for frying and roll them while still hot in sugar . Arrange them on a plate until you finish all of them . The castagnole are ready to serve!
It is recommended to consume the castagnole immediately, or at most within the day. The dough can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
If you don't like the taste of anise, you can use grappa or rum! And for the little ones? Use the same amount of orange juice. Otherwise, it can be omitted altogether. We recommend not baking the castagnole, as you won't get the same result.
Use powdered sugar, mixed with a little cinnamon instead of granulated sugar!

