name:
Pan-fried Friggitelli
ingredients:
Friggitelli (sweet Italian chili peppers): 21.2oz(600 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
Water: 2tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 2 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Friggitelli are a variety of small green peppers with a sweet flavor typical of central and southern Italy! As the name suggests, these vegetables are usually pan-fried, and today we will prepare them just like that: pan-fried friggitelli, a side dish to pair with fish or meat courses, such as baked chicken breast or pan-fried prawns , but also a topping for tasty first courses like Gnocchi with Friggitelli Peppers and Sausage . And perhaps you didn't know that they also go very well with Pasta with friggitelli and sausage ! Tradition has it that friggitelli are cooked with the stem on so they can be eaten with the hands... we, although having used utensils, have left them whole to preserve their shape and flavor, but if you prefer you can clean them from seeds and cut them into smaller pieces! Take advantage of the season to enjoy pan-fried friggitelli and savor them in their simplicity. Also discover the goodness of Friggitelli ripieni and Vegetarian Stuffed Friggitelli , or how to prepare our pan-fried peppers !
To prepare the pan-fried friggitelli, first thoroughly wash the friggitelli under running water keeping them whole and with the stem intact, and dry them with a paper towel. In a rather large skillet, heat the extra virgin olive oil and sauté the unpeeled garlic for 3-4 minutes over medium heat, then add the friggitelli .
Briefly sauté the friggitelli over high heat, turning them frequently , then lower the heat, add water and cover with a lid . Cook the friggitelli for about 10 minutes until they are wilted.
When the friggitelli are wilted, remove the garlic from the skillet , adjust with salt and turn off the heat: your pan-fried friggitelli are ready to be served !
Once cooked, the pan-fried friggitelli can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you like strong flavors, you can add fresh chili pepper along with the garlic for a spicy touch or melt some anchovies in the oil for a more pronounced salty note!

