name:
Mojito
ingredients:
White Rum: 1.7oz(50 ml)- Cuban
Brown sugar: 3tsp
Angostura bitters: to taste
Mint: 8leaves
Ice: to taste
Sparkling water: to taste
Lime juice: 1

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Serving: 1
Cost: Low

instructions:
Directly from Cuba, one of the most famous cocktails in the world: the mojito! White rum, fragrant mint leaves, lime juice, a bit of brown sugar, soda, and lots of ice... making a mojito at home is really simple. A fresh and aromatic alcoholic drink that makes the warm summer evenings magical, perfect to sip when the sun sets and the dancing starts! Those who love mint drinks but not alcohol, however, should not feel left out of the celebrations because they can prepare a delicious Whole wheat pancakes without milk, eggs, butter with non-alcoholic mojito to share with friends. Ideal for after dinner but also for aperitifs, the mojito can be accompanied by tasty appetizers based on both meat and fish, such as a nice Seafood cone with mojito mayo . If you've always wanted to learn how to make mojito then this is your chance to bring a bit of Cuban sabor home!
Also discover these classic cocktails to make at home:
To prepare the mojito start by pouring into a highball glass (tall tumbler) the mint leaves and the brown sugar; using a muddler, crush them against the side of the glass to release the aroma of the mint. Add the lime juice (about 1/5 of the drink) and muddle again for a few seconds, then fill the glass with ice (cubed or crushed), add the rum, angostura, and finally a splash of carbonated water (or soda); stir in a circular motion and serve, decorating with a sprig of mint. Here's your mojito, cheers!
It is recommended to consume the mojito immediately.
Do not squeeze or crush the lime peel into the Mojito as it would turn bitter, and use only very fresh mint leaves.
There is a variant in the preparation of the Mojito that involves using together two different types of rum: a younger white one and an older amber one.
The invention of the Mojito is due to the Cuban bartender Angelo Martínez, manager of the historic venue located in Havana, "La Bodeguita del Medio". The famous venue was frequented by the writer Ernest Hemingway, who was a great connoisseur of the Mojito and who used to consume it only here because, according to him, it was crafted to perfection.

