name:
Seafood Paella
ingredients:
Bomba rice: 2.2lbs(400 g)
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Calamari (squid): 1.1lbs(500 g)- (to be cleaned)
Scampi: 8
Shrimps: 8
Onions: 2.8oz(80 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Shrimp bisque  (Fumetto di crostacei): 3.2lbs(750 g)
Tomato purée: 3cups(200 g)
Saffron: 0.07tsp(0.25 g)- (2 packets)
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp(5 g)
Sweet Peperoncino: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
It’s the most spectacular of all and always garners applause from the lucky guests when brought to the table... it's the seafood paella, one of the pride of Spanish cuisine! The word "marisco" means shellfish and immediately defines the stars of this delicious dish: mussels, squid, prawns, and langoustines, but also clams, crabs, or fish depending on what the market offers. Just like with the Paella Valenciana, in fact, there is no certified recipe but many variations that change according to the availability of ingredients and the traditions of each family. In this case, the rice is flavored not only with saffron but also with paprika, which adds an extra burst of flavor. But it’s the mussels, with their cooking water, and the shellfish broth in which the rice is cooked by absorption that will make everything incredibly tasty and fragrant. Perfect for a special occasion or simply to share with your friends, after an aperitif based on sangria and tortilla , the seafood paella is a guaranteed success... you'll hear the applause!
Try these other versions of paella, traditional and otherwise:
To prepare the seafood paella, first prepare the shellfish broth following our recipe, you will need 3 1/3 cups. Then take care of cleaning the mussels: remove the barnacles with a knife, detach the byssus, and scrape the shells with a scouring pad , rinsing the shells thoroughly under running water. Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, then add the mussels and cover with the lid .
Cook them for 4-5 minutes over high heat shaking the pan occasionally, so they open . Turn off the heat and drain the mussels in a bowl over which you have placed a colander, in order to filter and set aside their cooking liquid which you will need later ; you will need about 8.8 oz. Shell most of the shellfish and keep some whole for the final decoration . Discard the mussels that did not open.
Now proceed to cleaning the squid: remove the quill and the tuft with the innards attached, then also remove the skin . Rinse the inside of the squid thoroughly, then cut them into rings of a couple of inches .
Also prepare the other ingredients you will need for the preparation: peel and finely chop the onion , then remove the seeds from the chili pepper and finely chop it . Finally, peel the garlic clove, split it in half and remove the germ .
As for the prawns and langoustines, rinse them under running water and make an incision by cutting along the belly with a pair of scissors: this way they will release more flavor during cooking . In the specific paella pan, heat a drizzle of oil with the garlic clove, then add the crustaceans and brown them for 1-2 minutes per side over high heat .
Once cooked, transfer the prawns and langoustines to a plate and set them aside . In the same pan, add the onion and let it soften over low heat for a few minutes, also adding the chili pepper .
Now slightly increase the heat and add the squid . After a couple of minutes, remove the garlic and pour the tomato puree . Also add the hot broth
and the mussel liquid you have set aside . Season with saffron and paprika , mix and bring to a boil.
When the liquid has come to a boil, you can add the rice and the shelled mussels , then season with pepper and salt with moderation, considering that the mussel water and the shellfish broth will already be quite savory. Give a final stir and cook over low heat for about 18 minutes, or for the time indicated on the package: the rice must cook by absorption, so it should no longer be stirred but you can gently shake the pan occasionally.
Once the cooking time has elapsed the rice must be dry and partially stuck to the bottom of the pan . At this point, turn off the heat and arrange the crustaceans on the surface , then also add the mussels with shells that you had set aside . Your beautiful seafood paella is ready to be served!
It is recommended to consume the seafood paella immediately. Alternatively, it can be stored for about 2 days in the refrigerator, but the rice may lose its consistency. Freezing is not recommended.
The shellfish broth gives a more intense flavor to the paella, but if you prefer, you can alternatively use vegetable broth.
If you cannot find Bomba rice, you can substitute it with Arborio or Balilla rice. If you wish to add vegetables, you can opt for bell peppers, which should be added along with the rice, or peas, to be added halfway through cooking.
Serve the seafood paella with lemon wedges to allow your guests to add it as they wish... it will be great!

