name:
Carrot Cake
ingredients:
Carrots: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.6cups(200 g)
Almond flour: 1cup(100 g)
Eggs: 6.3oz(180 g)- (3 medium)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Sunflower seed oil: (150 g)
Orange juice: (80 g)
Orange peel: to taste
Baking powder: (16 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Almond slices: 0.4cup(50 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Carrot cake is a simple and wholesome lactose-free dessert , perfect for both snacks and breakfast for young and old alike: with its delicate orange hue, rich and soft texture, and the delightful aroma of homemade sweets, it wins everyone over at the first slice! With a simple colored glaze, you can even transform it into a delightful themed cake for Halloween, while with a dome mold, it becomes a scenic Camilla cake . The practice of using carrots in sweet recipes is very ancient: thanks to their natural sweetness, these vegetables managed to compensate for the scarcity of sugar and add flavor to cakes... as far back as the Middle Ages! Today, the popularity of carrot cake in its simplest and homiest form partly derives from the success of the English Carrot Cake or Carrot Cake , the more elaborate Anglo-Saxon version of carrot cake; but what we love about this recipe is its genuine simplicity, making it perfect for the whole family. Even for those who usually don't want to hear about vegetables!
Discover these carrot cake variations as well:
Looking for a fresh idea for a snack? Try our soft milk cakes , super delicious!

To prepare the carrot cake, first grate the orange zest and set it aside. Squeeze the juice and filter it . At this point, trim the carrots and peel them .
Cut the carrots into slices and transfer them to a food processor fitted with blades . Then finely chop the carrots .
Break the eggs into a bowl, add the sugar and a pinch of salt . Beat with an electric whisk until you get a light and fluffy consistency .
When the eggs are well whipped, slowly pour in the vegetable oil and the orange juice . Then also add the grated orange zest .
With the whisk still running, add the carrots . Continue working until they are well incorporated. Now in a bowl, pour the all-purpose flour, sifted baking powder , and almond flour . Mix the dry ingredients with a spoon.
Turn the whisk back on and incorporate the dry ingredients a little at a time . Work with the whisk at medium speed until you get a homogeneous mixture . Then transfer it to a 9-inch mold lined with parchment paper .
Decorate the surface with sliced almonds and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 55 minutes. Always do the toothpick test before removing from the oven . Let it cool completely, then remove from the mold and decorate with powdered sugar. Your carrot cake is ready to be served !
You can keep the carrot cake for 2-3 days under a glass dome.
Alternatively, you can freeze it whole or already sliced.
Instead of orange juice, you can use lemon juice, vegetable milk, or partially skimmed milk.
Instead of orange zest, you can add vanilla extract. If you don't have a food processor, you can grate the carrots by hand.

