name:
Cupcakes
ingredients:
Butter: 4oz(120 g)- at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Sugar: ½cup(120 g)
Eggs: 5.8oz(165 g)- (about 3 medium)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Baking powder: ½tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Powdered sugar: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)- at room temperature
Whole milk: 1spoonful

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
First in American bakeries and now around the world you can find cupcakes, the famous soft cakes, glazed with the most varied frostings. They have made their way into display windows becoming a true status symbol of pastry, specifically for all lovers of cake design. Not surprisingly, cupcakes lend themselves very well to being covered with sugar paste, Buttercream , and, last but not least, the butter or cheese frosting. For example, we have chosen the butter one, in pure American style, but the choice is yours regarding the type of decoration. There's also plenty of room for creativity; cupcakes can easily be transformed into their chocolate version, even more delicious, or red velvet , for the incurable romantics. There are many other versions and we have experimented with many, for example on the occasion of Halloween... you just have to find the one you prefer in our online recipe book. But for now, let's focus on the cupcake recipe and get ready to amaze your friends with the magic of these delicious little cakes!
To prepare the cupcakes, start by bringing butter and eggs to room temperature. Then pour the softened butter into a bowl, add the sugar and vanilla essence (alternatively use lemon zest) . Turn the beaters on to medium-high speed and let the mixture whip slightly .
After a few minutes, add the eggs a little at a time, continuing to work with the beaters . As soon as they are incorporated, turn off the beaters and place a strainer over the bowl .
In this way you can sift the flour and baking powder . Mix well with a spatula and the dough is ready .
Fill 12 paper liners arranged in a muffin pan . It will be enough to fill each cup with about 1.4 oz of dough . Before baking, tap the pan several times on the work surface, this way you will accurately level the surface and get cupcakes that are puffy but with a flat surface. Bake in a preheated oven at 355°F for about 25 minutes. Once cooked, let them cool to room temperature before garnishing .
For the garnish, we have chosen a characteristic American frosting: it is prepared in a bowl by mixing with the beaters on medium speed the butter at room temperature together with half the amount of powdered sugar , room temperature milk and vanilla essence .
Turn on the beaters and work for the necessary time until the ingredients come together. Then gradually add the powdered sugar you have set aside, a tablespoon at a time . In the end, you will have obtained a cream with a smooth and creamy consistency. Transfer it to a piping bag with a star nozzle and garnish the cupcakes . Here are your decorated cupcakes ready, now you just have to enjoy them .
The cupcakes can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days under a glass dome. In this case, it would be better to keep them separate from the cream. Once the dough is ready, it is best to bake it immediately. The cream can be prepared the day before. The undecorated cupcakes can be frozen once cooked.
If you don't have or don't like vanilla, no problem! Flavor the base with the zest of a lemon! If you want to make your cupcakes special, just color your frosting with a few drops of food coloring and garnish the surface with what you love most: chocolate chips, sprinkles, colored sugar, or berries, for example.

