name:
Cherry Tomatoes Confit
ingredients:
Cherry tomatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Garlic: 3cloves
Sugar: 1oz(25 g)
Thyme: 10sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Oregano: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Cherry tomatoes confit are delicious and flavorful oven-baked tomatoes, ideal to serve as an appetizer, side dish or as a versatile seasoning. Similar to roasted tomatoes but even more tender and sweet. The secret of their deliciousness lies in the "confit" cooking, a technique widely used in cooking that involves low-temperature cooking for an extended period, of various types of ingredients immersed in oil or vinegar, or covered with sugar. The term "confit" comes from the French "confire" which means to preserve... we can assure you that these cherry tomatoes will preserve all their sweetness! Cherry tomatoes confit have a very intense and sweet taste and are perfect for many uses in the kitchen.
Here are some ideas:
To prepare the cherry tomatoes confit, first wash the tomatoes and cut them in half . Place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, cut side up .
Arrange them neatly , then season them with salt and pepper .
Add thyme and oregano by tearing them with your hands. Also add the cloves of garlic in their skins .
Sprinkle with sugar and drizzle oil over the entire baking sheet . Bake in a preheated conventional oven at 284°F for 2 hours. When they are well dried, take them out . The cherry tomatoes confit are ready.
You can store the cherry tomatoes confit in the fridge for 2 days, sealed in an airtight container.
If you like them more caramelized, bake the cherry tomatoes for the same time, but increase the oven temperature to 320°F. Instead of granulated sugar, you can use brown sugar or powdered sugar. You can flavor with lemon zest or other aromatic herbs. Be careful not to overlap the cherry tomatoes; it is important that they have their space on the baking sheet to cook well. If there are too many, you can bake two baking sheets at the same time and switch them halfway through cooking.

