name:
Yogurt Cake
ingredients:
Greek yogurt: 11.3oz(320 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 1lb(220 g)- approximately 4 medium
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Cornstarch: 2.8oz(80 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Baking powder: 0.6oz(16 g)- (1 packet)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The yogurt cake is one of the most beloved sweets for its delicate taste and ease of preparation. Perfect for using up leftover yogurt jars in the fridge, it can be enriched with chocolate, bananas, apples, blackberries and even carrots... but today we present the classic version, excellent on its own or enriched with fresh fruit, jam, or soft whipped cream. To make it, we chose to use Greek yogurt, which differs from normal yogurt both in taste and consistency. Much thicker and creamier and with a rich and less sour flavor, it is ideal for cooking and especially in pastry. Prepare this yogurt cake to sweeten the snack time of both adults and children!
Try also these delicious variations:
To prepare the yogurt cake, cut the butter into cubes and let it soften. Then pour it into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk along with the sugar and start working it for at least 10 minutes. Once you have obtained a creamy and well-whipped mixture, add the eggs one at a time , waiting for the previous one to be completely absorbed before adding the next.
Once all the eggs are incorporated, add the yogurt and the pinch of salt, still with the whisk running. Grate the zest of an untreated lemon directly into the mixture and mix gently with a spatula .
Combine the flour with the cornstarch and the baking powder in a bowl then sift them and add them little by little to the mixture . Mix well and gently with a spatula making a rotating motion from the bottom up so as not to deflate the mixture. Butter and flour a 9.5 inch diameter cake pan, then pour the obtained mixture into it .
Level the surface with a spatula , do not tap the pan to distribute the dough otherwise the whipped mixture may deflate. Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 50 minutes (if using a convection oven, bake at 300°F for 40 minutes). To test the proper cooking of the cake always do the toothpick test. Once cooked, remove the cake from the oven and once it has cooled down, remove it from the mold and let it cool completely on a wire rack . Your yogurt cake is ready to be enjoyed!
Store your yogurt cake for a maximum of 2-3 days under a glass dome. You can freeze it after cooking.
Try flavoring your yogurt cake with the zest of an orange instead of lemon. To enrich the cake, add pieces of fruit (cherries, peaches, apricots or blueberries) or delicious chocolate chips. Alternatively to Greek yogurt, you can use a whole creamy white yogurt or fruit yogurt. Discover also our yogurt cake with strawberries and almonds!

