name:
Chicken breasts in milk
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.3lbs(600 g)- sliced
Butter: 1.4oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste
Whole milk: 0.7cup(170 g)
Thyme: 4sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Milk chicken breasts are an alternative idea to the classic scaloppine , as well as a great way to cook chicken! Many times you have asked us how to replace wine to allow your children to enjoy this main course with you, so today we have satisfied you! Milk chicken breasts are an easy and quick recipe to prepare, with their delicate and creamy taste they will win over both adults and children, avoiding the need to cook two different dishes... the addition of milk indeed creates a creamy sauce, very pleasant to the palate. By following our steps, you will get very tender slices that won't even need a knife to be cut! Make your own milk chicken breasts, in just a few minutes you will be able to bring to the table a genuine and tasty dish. And if you are looking for other recipes to make with chicken breast, try also:
Discover more delicious Chicken recipes and elevate your cooking game!

To prepare the milk chicken breasts start by cleaning the meat from the pieces of cartilage and the excess fat. At this point, separate the two breasts and obtain from each 4 slices .
Then place them on a cutting board and using a meat mallet, pound them to get thin slices .
Pour the oil and butter in a pan , let it melt gently and in the meantime flour the chicken slices . Gradually transfer them inside the pan , slightly increase the heat and wait about 2 minutes until a pleasant crust has formed.
Then flip the slices wait another couple of minutes and pour into the pan first the milk and then the thyme leaves .
Salt and pepper, cover with a lid and let it cook for another 4-5 minutes until the milk has thickened . At this point, all that remains is to serve your milk chicken breasts while they're still hot !
Milk chicken breasts can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day, sealed in an airtight container.
If you prefer, to give more flavor to the recipe, you can season your milk chicken breasts with curry or turmeric.
We also recommend flouring the chicken slices right before cooking and not before!

