name:
Orange Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 5.8oz(165 g)- (about 3 medium at room temperature)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)- granulated
Orange juice: 5.3oz(150 g)
Orange peel: 2
Sunflower seed oil: 3.5oz(100 g)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
You've probably more than once gone hunting for cakes easy and quick with few ingredients and here we come to your aid with the orange cake, a proposal for breakfast or snack, soft and fragrant. The orange cake will release its citrus aroma while baking and from every room both adults and children will rush, eager to taste a slice, indeed two! Once tried, you can't do without it and will say goodbye to packaged snacks to make room for this delicious homemade orange cake! If you wish to enjoy this dessert after dinner, pair the cake with an orange cream... the result will be a perfect combo! Here are other orange cakes not to be missed:
To prepare the orange cake, start by grating the zest of two oranges, making sure not to grate the white part . Put it in a bowl with the eggs . Then squeeze the oranges with a juicer to obtain the juice .
Strain the juice through a fine mesh sieve ; this step is optional. Begin to beat the eggs with an electric mixer and gradually pour the sugar slowly .
Add also a pinch of salt and beat until the eggs are light and fluffy, then slowly pour in the sunflower oil . In a bowl, sift together flour and baking powder . Then add the powders little by little .
Alternate with the orange juice . Continue in this manner until all the ingredients are used up, you should have a smooth and homogeneous mixture. Transfer the obtained mixture into a 20 cm (8-inch) pan lined with parchment paper .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F for 40 minutes. Do the toothpick test before removing from the oven . Let the cake cool, then unmold it. Dust with powdered sugar and serve your delicious orange cake !
You can store the orange cake for 2-3 days under a glass dome.
Thinking about how to make this delight even more tantalizing? Add some dark chocolate chips or some candied orange peels to the dough!

