name:
Lentil Soup
ingredients:
Dried lentils: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Leeks: 3.5oz(100 g)
Potatoes: 0.55lb(250 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 6.3oz(180 g)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Powdered turmeric: 1tsp
Water: 4cups(1 l)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Black bread with grains: 1

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Lentil soup is a timeless homemade first course, warm and fortifying, perfect for nourishing during the coldest winter evenings. With few and simple ingredients, you'll bring to the table a flavorful and genuine dish, that best enhances the taste of these legumes: leeks and aromatic herbs will give flavor, potatoes will add a creamy touch, then some cherry tomatoes and a pinch of turmeric to make the color more vibrant and inviting. Once ready, serve it with crispy oven-toasted croutons seasoned with oil and oregano, to complete this delicious soup with taste.
Here are other tasty ideas for cooking lentils:
To prepare the lentil soup, finely chop the white part of the leek . Peel the potatoes and dice them into 2/5 of an inch cubes . Heat a drizzle of oil in the pan, add the leek and sauté .
Add the potatoes to the pot . Also add the rinsed lentils and water .
Season with turmeric and bay leaves , stir, and once boiling, cook over medium-low heat for 25-30 minutes, stirring occasionally. Do not add salt now, as it will keep the lentils from softening. In the meantime, prepare the croutons: dice the bread .
Place the croutons on a baking sheet, season with salt, pepper, oil , and fresh oregano . Toast the bread in a preheated oven at 390°F on convection mode for 8 minutes. Wash and halve the tomatoes .
Then add the tomatoes and continue cooking for about ten minutes. Check if it's cooked to your liking, adjust with salt and pepper and remove from heat, let it rest for a few minutes. Serve the lentil soup hot, adding a drizzle of raw oil, a sprinkle of pepper, and the bread croutons .
The lentil soup can be stored in the fridge for 1 day, without tomatoes it lasts 3 days. You can freeze it after cooking if you used fresh ingredients.
To make the lentil soup even tastier, you can enrich it with a cheese crust, or with some dried porcini mushrooms.
You can add chili to the sauté if you like spicy flavors.
This soup is also delicious with the addition of spelt or barley.

