name:
Cauliflower au Gratin
ingredients:
Cauliflower: 28oz(1 kg)- (cleaned 800 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.2oz(35 g)- to be grated
Butter: 2.1tbsp(30 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
How can you resist a succulent dish of cauliflower au gratin? We've often been tempted by many inviting recipes based on Baked Pumpkin , Gratinated Belgian Endive , and mixed vegetables , made appetizing by that golden and crunchy surface created by gratinating in the oven. Even Lasagna with mushrooms counts if we promise you the tasty surface? Today, however, we want to offer you cauliflower au gratin, a true timeless classic, a home-made preparation typically winter that manages to make even the least loved vegetables tasty because of their smell. The irresistible crust that is created Baked Cauliflower hides a creamy and flavorful heart of béchamel and Parmigiano Reggiano. The result is a delicious and genuine vegetarian side dish that will whet the appetite of the whole family and will soon make you think again.
Come and discover all our other cauliflower recipes:
First, wash and clean the cauliflower by removing the outer leaves and central core , then detach the florets : you should get about 1.75 lbs of cauliflower. Plunge the florets into boiling salted water and boil for 15 minutes (if you don't like the smell of cooking cauliflower, you can reduce it by adding lemon or vinegar to the water).
Meanwhile, prepare the béchamel : in a saucepan, heat the milk , while in another thick-bottomed pot gently melt the butter . Once melted, sprinkle the flour into the pot with the butter, stirring immediately with a whisk to avoid lumps.
Lightly brown it then add the hot milk, stirring immediately with a whisk . Continue stirring to prevent lumps; season with nutmeg , pepper, and salt and let the mixture thicken for a few minutes, always stirring.
The béchamel should remain quite liquid . In the meantime, the cauliflower florets will be cooked, drain them thoroughly and set them aside for a moment. Butter an 8x8 inch baking dish
and pour the cauliflower florets inside . Cover with the béchamel and then evenly sprinkle with the Parmigiano Reggiano .
Season with pepper to taste (16-17) and then bake in a preheated oven at 356°F in static mode for 10 minutes. After this time, set the grill mode at 430°F and bake for another 10 minutes, to obtain a golden crust. Your cauliflower au gratin is ready to be served .
The cauliflower au gratin can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 1-2 days. It is possible to freeze the preparation after cooking.
Want to add a splash of color to the dish? Try using purple or green cauliflowers. If you love bold flavors, you can add pieces of Taleggio or other soft cheeses of your preference. The addition of a few thyme leaves will make the dish pleasantly aromatic!

