name:
Chocolate Muffins
ingredients:
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2.5oz(70 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Butter: 5.3oz(150 g)- at room temperature
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Eggs: 7.8oz(220 g)- at room temperature (about 4)
Whole milk: ¾cup(180 g)- at room temperature
Baking powder: 1tsp(6 g)
Baking soda: ½tsp(2 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Today, we invite you into our bakery to share with you our cherished recipe for delectable chocolate muffins! For several years now, muffins have been a hit in the famous American-style coffee shops: after having tempted you with those with a heart and those Soft lemon muffins , today we tempt you with these irresistible treats full of dark chocolate pieces, perfect for biting into during a break from studying or work. But from a recent study conducted here in the editorial office we have found that they are also perfectly suited for one of the most recurring morning gestures: dipping! Web gourmets rush in, today we are preparing chocolate muffins!
Also discover these muffin variations:
To prepare the chocolate muffins, start by pouring the very softened butter and sugar into the bowl of the stand mixer . Turn on the whisk and let it mix for a few minutes, until it becomes a soft cream . If you do not have a stand mixer, you can use electric or manual whisks. Then gradually add the room temperature and lightly beaten eggs a little at a time .
In this way, the mixture will blend perfectly , becoming a soft and homogeneous mass . Meanwhile, place a sieve over a container and pour in the flour and cocoa ,
then the baking powder and the baking soda and sift. One tablespoon at a time, add the powders until they are completely absorbed .
At this point, the dough will be very thick so lighten it by adding the milk in a thin stream, always at room temperature . Chop the chocolate with a knife, obtaining pieces about 1/50 inch big and add them to the mixture .
Mix thoroughly with a spatula to incorporate everything and then transfer to a piping bag without a nozzle . Place the liners in a muffin tray and squeeze about 3.5 ounces of dough to get 12 cupcakes .
Bake in a preheated and conventional oven at 355°F for 28-30 minutes, doing the toothpick test to check for doneness (for these muffins, cooking in a convection oven is not recommended as they would become too dry!). Once ready, take them out of the oven and let them cool or if you really can't resist, enjoy the chocolate muffins while they are still very hot .
Chocolate muffins can be stored under a glass dome for 2-3 days; to revive them, you can warm them up a bit in the oven. Chocolate muffins can also be frozen after baking. However, they should be consumed within a week. For thawing, place them in the fridge at least an hour before consumption.
Lovers of the famous black&white mix? Replace the dark chocolate with white chocolate! Or add pears for a delicious chocolate and pear version chocolate and pear muffins. If you prefer to replace milk with yogurt, you can use about 50% of the milk's weight: but the dough will be less soft.

