name:
Pan di Stelle Cake
ingredients:
Pan di Stelle® cookies: 1lb(450 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Powdered sugar: 3cups(80 g)
Whole milk: 2.5oz(70 g)
Whole milk: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + firming times in fridge and freezer; to make the decoration, it will be necessary to print a stencil and proceed with a glaze

instructions:
How many times on warm summer nights have we looked up at the sky hoping to catch that fleeting moment: "A shooting star!". The charm of stars is timeless, and the kitchen has surrendered to this astral seduction expressing love for stars with an iconic and delicious cake: the Pan di Stelle Cake. An easy and quick cake to make and discover layer by layer: fluffy and crunchy, light and dark, a contrast of colors and textures with a unique and inimitable taste. Are you ready to make a wish with our delicious Pan di Stelle Cake? You can make more than one if you wish, because we can also suggest the Tiramisu with Pan di Stelle® cookies !
To prepare the Pan di Stelle Cake first chop 3.5 oz of dark chocolate and set it aside . Crumble 7 oz of Pan di Stelle Cookies in a bowl , soak them with 2.5 oz of milk and mix to combine the mixture.
Place a cake ring with a diameter of 9 inches on a tray lined with parchment paper . Pour the cookie crumbs and distribute them evenly inside the ring, pressing the mixture with the back of a spoon . Allow the base to firm up in the refrigerator for 20 minutes. Pour the fresh liquid cream into a bowl, add 3 oz of powdered sugar
and whip it with an electric mixer until it is very firm . After the base's resting time has passed, pour a couple of spoonfuls of whipped cream on top ,
level the surface with the back of a spoon. At this point, take the remaining Pan di Stelle Cookies, lightly soak them in milk then place them on the cake arranging them in a radial pattern along the perimeter, you should manage to place about 14.  Pour over some of the chopped chocolate ,
to cover all spaces between the cookies . Continue with a second layer of whipped cream and level well with the back of a spoon , continue distributing another layer of 14 cookies, again previously soaked in milk ,
and the remaining chopped chocolate ; cover everything with cream , until reaching the edge of the ring. Level well with a spatula
to obtain a smooth surface . Let the cake compact in the freezer for at least 2 hours. After the resting time, distribute cocoa powder on the entire surface, sifting it with a sieve . It's time to create the decor by making a stencil: draw some stars on a sheet recreating the pattern of the Pan di Stelle Cookies .
Lay a transparent sheet over the drawings and with a craft knife, cut out the shape of the stars: thus, you will create the star shape on the glossy sheet . Remove the cake ring and transfer the cake to a serving plate. Very gently lay the stencil on the cake
Sprinkle with powdered sugar , then carefully lift the stencil making sure not to spill the sugar deposited on the sheet on the cake . In this way, you will have created the decoration of powdered sugar stars. To avoid touching the cocoa layer and make a more precise decoration, you can bring the stencil close without laying it on the cake, in this case, you will need help to distribute the sugar. The Pan di Stelle Cake is ready to be enjoyed!
If not consumed immediately, you can certainly store your Pan di Stelle Cake in the freezer and take it out about half an hour before consumption. If any is left, store it in the fridge and consume it within 3 days.
To make your Pan di Stelle Cake even more delicious, feel free to add a layer of gianduja cream to the layers of your cake. If you prefer stronger flavors, you can also soak the Pan di Stelle Cookies in coffee.

