name:
Parmigiano Cream
ingredients:
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 7oz(200 g)- to grate
Milk: 2cups(500 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The Parmesan cream is a sauce with an enveloping flavor, creamy like béchamel and savory like a fondue , perfect for enhancing and enriching any of your culinary creations. Its intense yet balanced taste comes from the combination of Parmigiano Reggiano DOP and the creamy base made with milk, butter, and flour. This condiment is suitable for a multitude of uses, both to complete refined dishes and to add a special touch to simpler preparations. You can use it to accompany gnocchi, ravioli, or homemade tagliatelle, or to drizzle over a meat fillet or to make delicious appetizers like crostini and canapés. Parmesan cream can have a prominent place in your recipe book.
If you're looking for other recipes with Parmesan cream, also try:
To prepare the Parmesan cream, first heat the milk in a saucepan , it should not reach a boil. In another pot, put the butter and melt it over low heat. Add the flour gradually .
Stir with a whisk until the roux is well combined and golden in color . Pour in the hot milk a little at a time while continuously stirring with the whisk to avoid forming lumps. Cook over low heat until the mixture thickens.
Turn off the heat and add the grated Parmesan , little by little, stirring continuously with the whisk. You should achieve a fairly dense consistency ; if you take a spoonful of cream and let it fall back into the pot, it should remain on the surface for a few moments before merging, indicating the correct consistency. Your Parmesan cream is ready to be used in your preparations .
The Parmesan cream can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with film or in a sealed container, for a maximum of 2-3 days. It is not recommended to freeze.
You can adjust the consistency of your Parmesan cream as desired: simply decrease the flour by 20-30 grams (0.7-1 oz) for a more liquid texture suitable for dressing pasta or risotto, or increase the flour by 20-30 grams (0.7-1 oz) for a thicker cream, ideal for serving on crostini. For an elegant touch, add a sprinkle of fresh truffle or a few drops of truffle oil directly into the prepared cream. For a fresh and original touch, mix in some grated lemon zest and a few drops of its juice

