name:
Dorayaki
ingredients:
Water: 6oz(180 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(240 g)-
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Eggs: 2
Baking powder: 1tsp(3 g)-
Honey: 1.4tbsp(20 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Have you ever heard of Doraemon? Not only the "children of the Eighties" will remember, but also today's kids; this cute blue cat, who gets into all sorts of mischief, is crazy about dorayaki, one of the most famous snacks in Japan! These delicious small pancake-like patties , which can also be made in a mini version, are very similar to American pancakes , but are prepared without the addition of fats and are filled like a sandwich. In Japan, they are traditionally served filled with a sweet azuki bean sauce. We opted for a more "Western" filling... thus in the editorial office we chose hazelnut cream, while operators and photographers preferred berry jam! Make them too with your favorite creams and jams for a nutritious breakfast or a delicious snack and you will make your children happy, making them feel like the protagonists of their favorite cartoon!
Come discover Mochi , other typical Japanese sweets!
To prepare dorayaki, first pour the flour into a bowl , then add the powdered sugar and the baking powder .
At this point, also add the eggs , the honey , and the room temperature water .
Once you have added all the ingredients to the bowl, start whisking with a whisk, first slowly , then vigorously until the mixture is smooth and lump-free .
Heat the crepe pan (or a large non-stick pan), pour a drizzle of oil and spread it over the surface with a paper towel ; then pour a ladle of mixture for each dorayaki (we recommend making a couple at a time) . The heat should be medium: this way, you won't risk your dorayaki getting too dark. Depending on how much mixture you use, you will get bigger or smaller dorayaki. Wait about 3 minutes and as soon as small bubbles appear on the surface you can flip them
and continue cooking for 1 more minute on the other side . Proceed this way until you finish the batter and stack your dorayaki , which you can already enjoy plain or serve as a sandwich filled with jams and creams of your choice !
Store the dorayaki batter for up to 12 hours in the refrigerator. Once cooked, consume them on the day. Alternatively, you can freeze them in the appropriate bags, without filling, and heat them up when you are ready to enjoy them.
Flavor your dorayaki with vanilla beans, or with orange or lemon zest!
In Japanese, "dora" means gong , and probably thanks to its shape similar to this musical instrument, dorayaki got its name.

