name:
Fluffy Pancakes
ingredients:
Egg whites: 3tbsp(84 g)- (approximately 2)
Egg yolks: 1.2oz(34 g)- (about 2)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(35 g)
Baking powder: 0.07oz(2 g)
Whole milk: 2tbsp(25 g)
Sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the fluffy pancakes, first pour the egg whites into a bowl and place them in the freezer until a thin ice layer forms, which will take about 10 minutes. In another bowl, pour the yolks, add the milk and mix with a whisk. Add the vanilla extract and the sifted all-purpose flour .
Mix with the whisk , then sift the baking powder and mix again .
Take the now cold egg whites from the freezer and whip them at low speed adding the sugar little by little . You should obtain a firm and solid consistency .
Incorporate the egg whites into the yolk mixture: add a small part first and mix vigorously, then incorporate the remaining egg whites, mixing gently from the bottom up so as not to deflate them . As soon as you have added all the egg whites and obtained a well-whipped mass , heat a pan over low heat.
Grease it with a little butter, using a paper towel to remove the excess . Cook 2 pancakes at a time, or adjust based on the size of the pan. For each pancake, place a spoonful of batter in the pan and add a few drops of water to the bottom, taking care that it does not touch the batter .
Immediately cover with a lid . Cook over very low heat for 2 minutes, then remove the lid and add another spoonful of batter on top of each pancake . If there is no more water, add a few more drops as before and cover again with the lid . Let cook for another 4 minutes.
After this time, gently flip the pancakes . Add a few more drops of water to the pan as before .
Cover again with the lid and let cook for about another 3-4 minutes. Transfer to a plate and proceed to cook the other pancakes. Serve the fluffy pancakes with maple syrup, whipped cream, and fresh fruit on the side .
It is recommended to prepare the fluffy pancakes and consume them immediately. It is not possible to store the batter as it may deflate and the result will not be the same.
Freezing is not recommended.
Serve the fluffy pancakes with honey, jams, or maple syrup... add some fresh fruit and, for those with a sweet tooth, even some whipped cream!
Want to make even taller pancakes? Try placing a ring mold in the pan and pouring the batter inside it!

