name:
Stuffed Squid
ingredients:
Calamari (squid): 1.6lbs(720 g)- (8 of approximately 3 ounces each)
White wine: 2tbsp(30 g)
Lemon peel: to taste- (to grate)
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Bread: 3 ½cups(100 g)- crumb
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)- (to grate)
Anchovies in oil: 6fillets
Eggs: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Indispensable in the menus of seafood restaurants, squid are also a valid solution for homemade seafood dinners. Stuffed squid is a typical dish of Mediterranean cuisine and an excellent alternative to the classic Fried Calamari or grilled . We offer you a version as simple as it is tasty: the filling made of bread, anchovies, Parmesan, and parsley is soft and rich, revealing an explosion of flavors upon tasting! You just need to be careful not to overcook the stuffed squid in the pan to avoid ruining the delicate texture of these mollusks, but by following the instructions here you can't go wrong... with our recipe you'll bring an impressive second course to the table and make a great impression!
Try these variations of stuffed squid as well:

To prepare stuffed squid, start with the cleaning of the squid : gently detach the head from the body , then remove the innards and the transparent pen . Rinse the sacs well under running water .
Remove the skin with your hands , or with the help of a small knife, and set aside. Separate the tentacles from the eyes and remove the beak . Finally, finely chop the tentacles with a knife .
Cut the bread into cubes and move to the stove: in a pan, melt the anchovies with 2 tablespoons of oil and a garlic clove . When they are melted, add the chopped tentacles and sauté for a minute over medium-high heat.
At this point, remove the garlic and add the bread cubes . Mix well, then deglaze with white wine . Stir and crush the bread so it absorbs all the seasoning .
Transfer the mixture to a bowl and let it cool slightly, then add the chopped parsley , grated Parmesan cheese , and the egg .
Season with a grind of pepper and mix everything with your hands or a wooden spoon . Transfer the filling to a piping bag without a nozzle and fill the squid sacs, leaving about 1 cm from the edge free . Finally, seal the end with a toothpick .
Once all the squid are stuffed, heat a drizzle of oil in a pan and lay them inside . Salt and cook for 3-4 minutes over medium-high heat, without touching them. When they have formed a nice crust, turn them over to the other side .
Deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate completely, then slightly reduce the temperature and cook with the lid on for another 5 minutes. At the end of cooking, flavor with grated lemon zest and chopped parsley. Your stuffed squid are ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the stuffed squid immediately; alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator for one day, in an airtight container.
The filling can be prepared a few hours in advance and stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap.
You can freeze the stuffed squid after cooking.
Instead of the egg, you can use 1-2 tablespoons of milk, just enough to achieve a soft but compact mixture.
If you prefer to bake the Baked stuffed calamari , you can place them on a baking sheet with slightly oiled parchment paper and bake them at 375°F for about 20 minutes, depending on their size.

