name:
Caesar salad
ingredients:
Romaine lettuce: 14.1oz(400 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- shaved
Stale bread: 5oz(150 g)- homemade
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(50 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Lemon juice: 2tsp(10 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Dijon mustard: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Anchovies in oil: 3fillets
Worcestershire sauce: 1tsp
Chicken breast: 1.3lbs(600 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note ATTENTION: For the chicken version, consider its cooking time: 30-40 minutes

instructions:
To make the Caesar salad first prepare the lettuce: separate the leaves from the stalk and roughly chop them , then rinse them under running water and dry them with a salad spinner . Store the dry lettuce in the refrigerator, this way it will be crunchier. If you don't have a salad spinner, wash the whole leaves and dry them on a clean towel, then chop them and store them in the refrigerator wrapped in a dry, possibly spongy towel, inside a container, so that the excess moisture is absorbed.
Move on to the croutons: cut the homemade bread into irregular cubes , then transfer them to a pan with a drizzle of oil .
Salt , pepper and toast the bread cubes over medium heat for about 5 minutes. Once golden , set the croutons aside. Obtain the flakes from the Parmigiano Reggiano DPO with the help of a potato peeler and also set these aside.
Focus on the dressing: in a bowl, put the anchovy fillets , salt, pepper , and the grated lemon zest .
Add the mustard and crush everything with a fork . Add the yolk and the lemon juice , mixing well to incorporate them.
Now take a whisk and pour the oil in a thin stream while beating the mixture to emulsify it . Finally add the Worcestershire sauce and mix again to blend it .
You're ready to assemble the salad: transfer the lettuce leaves to a large bowl , then add the bread croutons and the Parmigiano Reggiano DPO flakes .
Pour the dressing and mix well to evenly dress the salad . Your Caesar salad is ready to be served !
To make the Caesar salad with chicken prepare the lettuce, croutons, Parmigiano Reggiano DPO flakes, and the dressing in the same way, then take care of the meat: halve the whole chicken breast and remove cartilage and bones, then season and pepper the slices on both sides. Place the chicken breasts on a hot grill .
Let cook for about 30-40 minutes over medium-low heat, turning the slices with the help of kitchen tongs ; the cooking time depends on the thickness of the meat. Once ready transfer the chicken breasts to a cutting board and slice them crosswise into not too thin slices .
Assemble the salad by combining in a large bowl the lettuce, croutons , Parmigiano Reggiano DPO flakes , and the sliced chicken .
Add the dressing and mix well to blend everything together . Your Caesar salad with chicken is ready to be served !
It is recommended to serve the Caesar salad immediately after dressing it.
The lettuce can be prepared a few hours in advance and stored in the refrigerator as indicated in the recipe.
For the lettuce: refrigerating it makes the leaves crunchier, but it is not essential.
For the dressing: if you prefer, you can replace the yolk with a tablespoon of mayonnaise. Anchovies can be omitted. For a smoother and more homogeneous consistency, you can use an immersion blender instead of a whisk.
For the croutons: you can flavor the bread cubes with a clove of garlic or herbs to taste, and toast them in the oven instead of in a pan.

