name:
Tonnarelli cacio e pepe
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Semolina: 0.6cup(100 g)
Eggs: 5- (medium)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1 ¼cup(100 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Cubeb pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the resting times for the fresh pasta and the resting of the sheets

instructions:
To prepare the tonnarelli cacio e pepe, start with the fresh pasta: place both the flour and semolina on the work surface and create the classic well. Add the eggs in the center and begin to mix, gradually incorporating the flour .
Knead for about 10 minutes , until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough . Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest for at least 30 minutes .
After the resting time, take one piece of dough at a time, keeping the rest covered. Roll out the dough with a rolling pin , dusting occasionally with semolina. The pasta should be kept rather thick, about 1/6 inch. Once rolled out , the sheet should dry, uncovered, for about 30-40 minutes. You can then roll out the other pieces and proceed in the same way.
When the sheets have dried, lightly dust the surface with a small amount of semolina and fold it onto itself: first one edge , then the other , and finally, close by matching the two edges .
Cut the tonnarelli by slicing the roll from the narrow side with a sharp knife to a thickness of about 1/16 to 1/8 inch . Once ready, place the prepared tonnarelli well spread out on a tray lined with a dry kitchen towel and sprinkled with semolina.
Let's move on to the seasoning: in a slightly warm pan, toast the mix of two peppers, black pepper and Cubeb pepper (if you don't have it you can omit it) . When an intense scent of pepper is released from the pan, it indicates the toasting is done. Transfer it to a mortar and crush it to your preferred grain: we left it fairly coarse .
In a fairly large bowl, pour the grated Pecorino Romano, also add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP , add the pepper and the cold water .
Before starting to mix, add a little oil (optional, it serves to polish), then stir vigorously : you should obtain a homogeneous mixture, creamy but not runny, almost like mortar consistency .
Bring the water to a boil, salt to taste, and cook the fresh tonnarelli for about 7 minutes. Drain and transfer them directly to the bowl , then mix immediately very quickly with a spatula to blend with the seasoning . Add a little pasta cooking water if needed, for a creamy result.
It's time to plate, add more Pecorino Romano to taste , some ground pepper , and the tonnarelli cacio e pepe are ready to be devoured !
It is recommended to consume the tonnarelli cacio e pepe immediately.
The tonnarelli can be frozen, first on a tray and then in bags.
If you don't have or can't find Cubeb pepper, you can omit it. It is a pepper with a strong, very pleasant balsamic note.

