name:
Chili con carne
ingredients:
Beef: 1lb(800 g)- minced
Precooked black beans: 7cups(1170 g)- (gross weight)
Red peppers: 8oz(250 g)
Tomato purée: 2cups(500 g)
Meat broth: 3cups(360 g)
White onions: 5oz(160 g)- (around 2)
Red onions: 3oz(100 g)- (around 1)
Garlic: 3cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Powdered cumin: 1tsp
Powdered coriander: 1tsp
Brown sugar: 1tsp
Black pepper: 1tsp
Fine salt: 2tsp
Coriander: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Texan or Mexican? Chili con carne is the ultimate tex-mex recipe, which became popular in the South and United States thanks to so-called chili queens , women of Hispanic origin who prepared this delicious spicy stew at home and sold it to workers, soldiers and cowboys. Originally chili was made of nothing but meat and chili pepper, as the name of this dish suggests, however it is now commonly enriched with beans, peppers and tomato. We've decided to present you with this version, appreciated worldwide because of just how easy it is to prepare, not to mention its decisive flavor and versatility. You can serve chili con carne with plain rice, tortillas and avocado for a Mexican-style dinner, or American-style, with cheddar, french fries and sour cream, or as the most classic filling for burrito : either way, we're sure you'll love it!
Try the Chili veg and other delicious recipes of tex-mex cuisine:
To make chili con carne, start by preparing the meat broth : follow our recipe and keep it hot. Now prepare the ingredients: peel and chop the garlic cloves , the red onion and the white onion .
Cut the pepper and peperoncino into pieces, after removing part of the seeds . Heat half the oil in a saucepan (a cast iron one if possible), then add the minced meat .
Season with a teaspoon of salt and brown on a medium-high flame for ten minutes or so, after adding a ladle of meat broth, leaving it to simmer and reducing . Once browned, place the meat in a bowl and leave to one side .
Add the remaining oil to the same saucepan and add the peperoncino , garlic and onions .
Add the peppers too and flavor with a teaspoon of salt, the pepper and the brown sugar .
Add the powdered cumin and coriander too . Turn up the flame, add a ladle of broth , then cook the vegetables on a medium-high flame for 10 minutes in total. Now add the previously browned minced meat .
Add the tomato puree and the remaining broth . Leave to simmer on a medium flame for 60 minutes, stir occasionally and make sure it does not reduce too much ; how fast it cooks depends on the type of saucepan you used.
Once the cooking time is up, add the beans with around 2 cups of their liquid , and simmer for another 40 minutes on a medium-low flame. Remove the saucepan from the heat when done and leave to rest for ten minutes or so . Garnish with a few coriander leaves and serve your chili con carne nice and hot !
Chili con carne can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
It can be frozen once thoroughly cooled.
As mentioned in the presentation, there are lots of different versions of chili con carne: you can leave out the beans or peppers, use meat pieces instead of minced meat, or opt for a beef-pork mix.
If you can't find black beans then use borlotti ones!
Vary the spice mix according to your taste, for example by adding some cinnamon, paprika, a dash of lime or even some dark chocolate! With this recipe you should make a slightly spicy chili.

