name:
Cheesecake
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 8oz(240 g)
Butter: 1stick(110 g)
Cream cheese: 3cups(500 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 7tbsp(100 g)
Sugar: 5tbsp(65 g)
Cornstarch: 3tbsp(25 g)
Eggs: 1- (1 medium)
Egg yolks: 1
Lemon juice: ½
Vanilla bean: ½
Sour cream: 7tbsp(100 g)
Berries: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + time for cooling in the refrigerator (2 h 1/2)

instructions:
A crumbly biscuit and butter base, topped by a rich cheese cream... these are the deliciously distinctive elements of a cheesecake ! In this recipe we'll show you what we believe to be the ultimate cheesecake! One of the best loved and most frequently interpreted worldwide, from the famous New York cheesecake to zesty versions like the Lemon cheesecake or Strawberry cheesecake ! This dessert pleases everyone's tastes, winning them over from the very first bite. Here we present you with the classic recipe for oven baked cheesecake, which is different from cold cheesecake as no isinglass is required. In accordance with tradition, in all its softness and voluptuousness, cheesecake can be garnished with sour cream and wild berries , like in this version, or with any sauces and preserves you wish: start preparing it and be inspired by your very own idea of deliciousness! For those of you with a sweet tooth, we recommend our Chocolate and salted caramel cheesecake !
To make cheesecake, start by melting the butter; leave to cool until warm; in the meantime, place the biscuits in a mixer and blend them into a powder . Place them in a bowl and add the butter .
Stir with a spoon to obtain a uniform mixture ; now take a 9" diameter spring cake mold and line the base with parchment paper. Add half of the biscuits and press down with the back of a spoon .
Line the edge of the mold with the remaining cookies . Once you have covered the entire surface, leave the base for your cheesecake to harden in the refrigerator to for 30 minutes, or 15 minutes in the freezer. In the meantime, beat an egg, one yolk, the sugar with a whisk to make a cream .
Add the seeds of half a vanilla bean (save the rest for later) and add to the eggs . Gradually add the cream cheese too.
Continue to whisk . Once you have incorporated all the cheese, add the lemon juice and the corn starch .
Now add the cream , delicately whisking all the while . Remove the mold with the biscuit base from the refrigerator and pour the mixture over it .
Gently smooth the surface and bake in a static oven preheated to 320°F for 60 minutes, then at 340°F for another 20 minutes. Once baked, turn the oven off and leave the cheesecake to cool inside with the door open. You can make the topping in the meantime. Stir the sour cream in a bowl with a spatula, together with the seeds of half a vanilla bean you saved for later.
Add the topping to the cheesecake at room temperature and spread it evenly all over , before placing it back in the refrigerator to firm up for 2 hours. Once rested, remove the dessert from the mold and decorate: start by adding the red currants .
Garnish some more with blackberries, blueberries and raspberries . Last of all, add the mint leaves and serve your fabulous cheesecake !
Cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. Alternatively, it can be frozen for a month.
Instead of cream cheese, for a delicious, less acidic and more delicate taste, replace it with the same amount of ricotta.
Instead of wild berries you can garnish the dessert with different kinds of fruit or chocolate!

