name:
Protein pancakes
ingredients:
Egg whites: 4(150 g)- (of around 4 medium eggs)
Whole milk: ½cup(140 g)
Peanut butter: 5tbsp(80 g)
Rolled oats: cup(60 g)
Nut flour: 6tbsp(60 g)
Acacia honey: 2tbsp(50 g)
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
We all know that pancakes are the quintessential American breakfast. However, occasionally we like to give the nod to fitness and well-being, which is why today we present you with this recipe for protein pancakes! Together with the light, butter-free and egg-free versions, these pancakes are even more enjoyable because of their goodness. Thanks to the amazing mix of rolled oats, nut flour, egg whites and peanut butter, you'll restore your energy levels after sports... athletes just love these protein pancakes! Are you ready to taste them too? They'll make a great alternative to classic cookies and muffins !
If you are looking for some protein-rich recipes, be sure not to miss out on the soft fluffy pancake , which are even more delicious in the sacher version!
To prepare protein pancakes, place the nut flour in a bowl , together with the rolled oats and egg whites .
Now add the peanut butter and honey . Mix all the ingredients with the whisk and lastly, add the milk .
Stir some more so that you end up with a smooth batter . Use a kitchen pad to lightly butter a non-stick pan and then heat it up. Add a couple of ladles of the batter to the pan and leave to cook for 2 minutes, without touching .
Turn the pancakes over for a minute on the other side . Start forming a stack of pancakes as they cook while you prepare more: you should end up with around 12 in total . Serve your protein pancakes right away, garnished with whatever ingredients you like !
Protein pancakes can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
A few ideas for garnishing protein pancakes? Bananas, wild berries, honey, melted chocolate or hazelnut cream are some examples!
You can replace the nut flour with almond flour, or replace cow's milk with plant-based milk, in the same amounts.

