name:
Orange chicken breast
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 17oz(500 g)- whole
Orange juice: ½cup(130 g)- sanguinello blood orange
Type 00 flour: 6tbsp(40 g)
Butter: 1tbsp(20 g)
Grand Marnier liqueur: 4tbsp(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Datterino tomatoes: 14oz(400 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: 2sprigs

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Invite your friends over for dinner tonight: we've come up with the perfect recipe that will win them over: orange chicken breast! This simple yet delicious main course is characterized by an original pairing. The aroma and flavor of the orange will enhance the chicken, making it even more delicious and tender. Its sharp flavor is balanced by the delicious side dish of tomatoes. We have opted for the date variety as it is sweet and delicate, making it perfect for this recipe. After unveiling the main course of your dinner to your guests, serve this orange chicken breast and be ready to be praised. If you enjoyed this recipe, here are some others you really shouldn't miss:
To prepare orange chicken breast, start with the tomatoes. Destalk and rinse them , cut them in half and place them in a colander inside a bowl, so that the excess liquid will collect at the bottom .
Heat some extravirgin olive oil in a pan together with an unpeeled garlic clove (remember to gently crush it in the palm of your hand), then add the tomatoes and sauté for a few minutes. Add salt and pepper to taste and leave to cook for a few more minutes, before removing the garlic clove . When the tomatoes are slightly shriveled, which should take around 5 minutes, remove from the heat and add the thyme leaves .
Prepare the rest in the meantime: cut the orange in half and squeeze the juice, which you can also filter to remove any pulp; leave to one side . Take the whole chicken breast, cut it in half and remove any fat and cartilage. Lastly, thoroughly coat both pieces in flour and shake any excess off .
Heat some oil and butter in a pan on a low flame; as soon as the bottom is nice and hot, add the chicken and thoroughly brown for a couple of minutes on both sides . When nice and golden, add the Grand Marnier, simmer and reduce: be very careful to avoid any backdraft if you are using a gas stove .
As soon as the alcohol has evaporated, which should take around 1 minute, add the orange juice and leave to simmer; turn the meat over every now and then. Leave to cook for 10 - 15 minutes and half way through the cooking time add salt and pepper to taste (14-15).
When done, place the chicken breast pieces on a cutting board or a plate and cut into slanted slices each around 0.8 inches thick . Garnish with the tomatoes and your orange chicken breast is ready: enjoy it while it's nice and hot !
If you prefer you can store the orange chicken breast in the refrigerator, in a glass container with a lid, for 2-3 days. Freezing once cooked is not recommended.
If you don't have any Grand Marnier to hand, use Cointreau or a fruity wine or one with orange notes. If you are looking for a creamier effect, coat the chicken in cornstarch, which will result in a gluten-free version! For an even more aromatic dish, grate the orange peel and add it once cooked. For an even more striking color effect, replace the date tomatoes with yellow cherry ones.

