name:
Cream tart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1cup(140 g)
Almond flour: 1.1cups(125 g)
Butter: 4.5oz(125 g)- cold
Eggs: 1.8oz(50 g)- (about 1 medium)
Sugar: 6tsp(25 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 10.5oz(300 g)
Powdered sugar: 2cups(75 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Macaroons: 4
Strawberries: to taste
Blackberries: to taste
Dark chocolate: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note plus 2 and a half hours of resting in the fridge

instructions:
A cake that in a few days has made its way into the hearts of web surfers worldwide: the cream tart! Thanks to its colors and simplicity, it's a cake suitable for all ages and perfect for any occasion. You just need to create a number from the pastry that can symbolize the years of a birthday or, in the case of an anniversary, those spent together with a loved one. But with this soft and fragrant pastry, you can indulge in creating the most varied shapes: from a heart for Valentine's Day, to a flower for Mother's Day or a simple round shape for Sunday lunch. The cream tart is a modern dessert that can be customized according to your tastes. We suggest a fresh and colorful version with strawberries, blackberries, and colored Macarons . For a more striking contrast, you can make the pastry with a bit of cocoa, or choose a chocolate cream , and for decoration, you can have fun adding mini meringues, fresh fruit, or edible flowers! Get the most out of this cake and make it perfect for your occasion... maybe even in a Savory cream tart !
Let yourself be inspired by other sweet delights for your special occasions:
To prepare the cream tart start with the shortcrust pastry: pour the almond flour, sugar , all-purpose flour , and the butter in pieces into a bowl. Knead everything with your hands
until you get a crumbly mixture . Add the egg and knead again very quickly
until it all comes together . Then transfer the mixture onto a sheet of plastic wrap and close it up forming a dough ball . Let it rest in the refrigerator for a couple of hours.
Once cool, roll out the dough on a sheet of parchment paper, using a little flour , until about 1/10 inch thick. Using a dough docker, dock the dough (11-12) (if you don't have a dough docker, you can use the tines of a fork).
Place a stencil in the shape of the number 2, about 8 inches long and 5 inches wide (you can cut out the shape you need from cardboard). Using a small knife, cut out the shape from the dough and repeat the same operation to form another number 2; you can flip it to optimize space . At this point, remove the dough around the numbers , knead it again, and place it in the refrigerator (5-10 minutes will suffice)
Bake the numbers obtained in a preheated static oven at 355°F on the middle rack for 15 minutes. Then remove and let cool without touching. While the first two numbers are baking, take care of rolling out the remaining dough again always to a thickness of about 1/10 inch, then always use stencils of the same dimensions as done for the number 2 to also create two number 5s . Bake again at 355°F for 15 minutes on the middle rack of the oven. Remove and let cool completely .
In the meantime, prepare the cream. Pour the cream into a bowl, add the vanilla seeds , and start whipping adding the powdered sugar . When the cream is well whipped, add the mascarpone a little at a time
and incorporate it with movements from the bottom up so as not to deflate the cream . Place it in a pastry bag with a smooth 10 mm (about 0.4 inches) tip . At this point, place a number 2 and a number 5 side by side on a tray. Then take the cream and form tufts on the entire surface of the numbers .
Then place the corresponding shortcrust pastry numbers on top of the cream tufts and make a second layer of cream , until the entire surface is covered.
Decorate with strawberries (washed and with the green leaves removed) cut into wedges, blackberries dusted with powdered sugar , macarons , and chocolate curls. Let it rest in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes before serving your cream tart .
The cream tart can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days under a glass dome. The shortcrust pastry can be frozen. The baked numbers can be prepared in advance. The cream, however, is best prepared at the moment.
It is advisable to prepare the shortcrust pastry the day before to make it easier to work with. It is possible to replace 1 ounce (about 1/4 cup) of flour with 1 ounce of cocoa to obtain cocoa shortcrust pastry.

