name:
Mackerel with turnip greens and hazelnuts
ingredients:
Mackerel: 2
Sugar: 2cups(500 g)
Water: 4cups(1 l)- cold
Fine salt: 2tbsp(30 g)
Apple cider vinegar: 1tbsp
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Maldon salt: to taste
Whole peeled hazelnuts: 1cup(200 g)
Water: cup(150 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Broccoli rabe: 4oz(135 g)
Baking soda: 1pinch
Lemon juice: 1tbsp

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 25 min. marinating time

instructions:
Mackerel with turnip greens and hazelnuts is the perfect combination of tradition and innovation, served at the Farmacia dei sani restaurant in the province of Lecce by chef Valentina Rizzo, who will reveal all the secrets of this gourmet dish to us. Mackerel is a versatile oily fish and here its intense taste is tempered by a special, unusual yet effective sugar marinade, for a more delicate effect. These delicious fillets are served with a special hazelnut sauce for a subtle hint of sweet and sour flavor, and turnip greens, the undisputed star ingredient of Apulian cuisine . Refined and elegant, as of today mackerel with turnip greens and hazelnuts is a fish-based main course you too can prepare: discover how to make it at home!
Don't miss out on this delicious version:
To prepare mackerel with turnip greens and hazelnuts, start by cleaning the mackerel. Cut a slit in the stomach , gut the fish and then rinse under running water . Cut a slit along the top, place the knife under the fin and cut towards the tail .
Avoid sawing when cutting into fillets , remove the underside and lastly, trim the edges to give the fillets a regular shape .
Debone the fish using the special tweezers . Place half of the sugar in a baking tray to form a roughly 0.2 inch thick layer, then place the 4 fillets on it, skin side down . Cover with the remaining sugar .
Leave to marinade for 20 minutes at room temperature. Once this time is up, remove the mackerel from the marinade and rinse under running water .
Fill a bowl with cold water and dissolve 2 tablespoons of salt in it, add the fillets and leave them to soak for 2-3 minutes. This water and salt solution creates an enriching sea brine effect and adds a savory touch. Place the fillets on some absorbent paper .
Clean the greens by removing the toughest parts . Boil the greens in water, salt and a pinch of bicarbonate for 2 minutes . Drain and place them in a bowl with cold water and ice to stop the cooking process .
Dry the greens on a tray lined with absorbent kitchen paper . Place the hazelnuts on a tray lined with parchment paper and toast them in a static oven preheated to 355° for 8-10 minutes .
Blend the hazelnuts in the mixer while sill hot . Once sandy in consistency, add the water and a pinch of salt. Continue blending into a sauce .
Sieve the sauce so that it is smooth . Cook the mackerel: heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the fillets skin side down and gently press down so that they do not curl up.
Brown until the skin is golden, then turn them over and cook for a few seconds on the other side . When ready, place them on a tray with some absorbent paper; dab the apple cider vinegar over the mackerel skin while still hot and season with the maldon salt . This will help them absorb the flavors better.
Now turn to the greens: heat a drizzle of oil in the same pan you cooked the mackerel in . Add the greens and thoroughly brown them on both sides , then a spoon of lemon juice, simmer and reduce .
Place the greens on the absorbent paper too and season with a pinch of salt . Serve the fillets with the hazelnut sauce and the turnip greens .
Mackerel can be stored in the refrigerator for one day at most. We do not recommend freezing it once cooked.
Mackerel is marinated with sugar to absorb excess humidity and to attenuate the typically decisive flavor of this oily fish.
Be careful not to overcook the mackerel, so that it remains succulent.
Bicarbonate prevents the color of the greens from fading during cooking.

