name:
Bundt Cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(375 g)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(310 g)
Butter: 7oz(200 g)- soft
Whole milk: 3cups(190 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 5
Baking powder: 0.5oz(16 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low

instructions:
Rediscover the simplicity and warmth of home-cooked treats with our time-honored Bundt cake recipe, a tribute to the cherished moments at grandma's kitchen table. Back in the day, life may have seemed simpler, yet it was rich with flavors and love, much like the tarts , cookies or the Bundt cake grandma effortlessly whipped up, anticipating your visits. Using nothing more than eggs, sugar, and flour, she transformed these basic ingredients into afternoon delights and morning treasures, perfectly paired with juice, milk, or coffee.
Embrace the essence of that homely and authentic experience with our Bundt cake, enhanced by lemon or orange zest and a sprinkle of powdered sugar, crafting a moist, fragrant, and irresistibly inviting treat. This recipe not only recaptures the nostalgia of those afternoons but also earns you admiration from grandma herself for baking such a timeless and delicious Bundt cake.
Also discover the variants without butter like the cocoa Bundt cake , the Butterless Bundt Cake , the one with chocolate chips and the Water Ring Cake ! And if you like the latter but prefer it in its dark version then we suggest the Water and cocoa bundt cake .
To make the Bundt cake, first make sure the cold ingredients from the fridge are left out for a while to reach room temperature, it will be easier to work with them. Meanwhile, in a bowl sift the flour and baking powder . Then place the butter, still pliable, in pieces into a bowl, add the lemon zest and start beating with an electric mixer .
While continuing to beat, add the sugar ; it will take 1-2 minutes for the mixture to become soft and homogeneous. Then add the salt and the eggs, one at a time .
Work gradually with the electric mixer until all the eggs are incorporated . Then add a portion of the dry ingredients and mix at very low speed .
Next, add a little milk and continue in this way, alternating dry ingredients and milk, until finished. You should obtain a homogeneous and thick mixture. Then transfer the mixture into a previously buttered 9.4 inches Bundt cake pan .
Level the surface with a spatula , then dip a knife in melted butter and use it to create what will be the crack of the Bundt cake . You should imprint it in the dough in a circular manner. This step is obviously optional, omitting it the crack will still form but in a less uniform way.
Bake in a preheated oven at 355°F on the middle shelf for 40 minutes. Always perform the toothpick test before taking the cake out of the oven . Let it cool completely, unmold the Bundt cake, decorate with powdered sugar and serve .
Store the Bundt cake for a couple of days at room temperature. You can also freeze it in slices, or whole.
You can flavor the Bundt cake with the flavors you prefer: vanilla, orange zest or cinnamon for example. If possible, use a springform pan, it will be easier to unmold the cake.

