name:
Cinnamon rolls
ingredients:
Sugar: 5tbsp(60 g)
Type 00 flour: 5cups(615 g)
Brewer's yeast: 1 ½tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Water: 4oz(120 g)- at room temperature
Whole milk: 4oz(120 g)- at room temperature
Butter: 2.8oz(80 g)
Eggs: 1.9oz(55 g)- (about 1)
Sugar: ½cup(110 g)
Cinnamon powder: 6tsp(15 g)
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)- for greasing the pan and brushing the dough
Powdered sugar: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 1 h 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low
Note +1 hour for rising

instructions:
To prepare the cinnamon rolls start by melting the butter over low heat and then let it cool down once ready. Then pour all the dry ingredients into a bowl, namely the flour and sugar , the dry yeast (or fresh yeast crumbled directly into the bowl, 0.63 oz) and the salt and mix .
Do the same with the liquid ingredients. In a bowl pour the water together with the milk and the lightly beaten egg .
Then continue with the melted butter that you have allowed to cool and mix everything with a wooden spoon . At this point, combine the liquid ingredients with the dry ingredients
and, with the help of the spoon, mix until you obtain a combined mixture . Transfer it to the work surface and knead by hand until you get a smooth and homogeneous ball You can add a pinch of flour if necessary to work more easily. The dough is ready when your hands come out clean from kneading.
Grease a bowl with some butter and place the dough inside , cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for at least 30 minutes at a temperature between 68°F and 77°F (alternatively, you can keep the bowl in the oven turned off but with the light on) .
Move on to preparing the seasoning mix. In a bowl pour the sugar and the cinnamon powder , mix well and set it aside .
Take the leavened dough and deflate it on a lightly floured work surface with the help of a rolling pin . Obtain a rectangle of about 20x14 inches
then brush with melted butter and sprinkle with ¾ of the seasoning mix making sure to distribute it over the entire surface .
At this point, you will proceed to roll up the dough. Start by gently lifting the bottom edge along the longer side, this way you will help to detach it from the work surface . Then proceed to roll up a bit at a time, making sure to roll tightly and without squashing the dough . Once you have the roll, you will need to shape it with your hands to obtain a length of about 19 inches, so hold one end with your hand and with the other apply light pressure towards the end you are holding, to give a uniform shape .
With a sharp blade divide the roll in half , divide one of the halves again in half and from each subdivision, you should get 3 disks of the same size (about 1.2-1.6 inches). Continue the same way also for the other piece. You will get with these doses 12 rolls ; you can slightly model them with your hands to round the shape.
Grease a rectangular pan of about 12x8 inches and sprinkle it with the remaining 1/4 of the seasoning mix . Place the rolls in the pan all in the same direction, spacing them about 0.4 inches apart . Once all the pieces are arranged, gently press with your fingers to make the shape of each roll uniform
and finally cover with plastic wrap, letting it rise for another 30 minutes at least . After the time, the swirls will have doubled , then proceed to baking. The cinnamon rolls bake in a preheated oven, in static mode, at 355°F for about 30 minutes. Once baked, let them cool completely .
To prepare the frosting, pour the powdered sugar into a container and add a bit of cold water a little at a time and start to mix , continue to add more if necessary, always one tablespoon at a time, until you obtain a viscous consistency and finally sprinkle your cinnamon rolls with the frosting before enjoying them !
You can prepare the cinnamon rolls dough in advance: it will be enough to reduce the amount of yeast and store the dough in the refrigerator for 8-12 hours; the next day it will be enough to take out the dough and let it acclimate before continuing as per the recipe. Once baked, the cinnamon rolls can be stored at room temperature (or in the refrigerator) for 1-2 days at most: but in this case, it would be advisable not to glaze them in advance, since this will become a shiny syrup that will soften the dough a lot.
If you want to make your cinnamon rolls more indulgent try adding some chocolate chips or soaked raisins to the rolled-out dough. Or try decorating them with granulated sugar before baking!
These famous swirls, whose origins trace back to Sweden under the name of Kanelbulle , are highly appreciated all over the world. In fact, it is thanks to the massive spread made possible by the United States, which marketed them under the name of cinnamon rolls , literally cinnamon rolled buns, starting from the first half of the 20th century. They are served warm for breakfast or during the famous coffee break called fika . They are appreciated all over the world and take on different nuances such as the presence of granulated sugar, raisins, or chocolate chips. Moreover, in the original version, the frosting is enriched with butter. But given the high fat content already present in the recipe, our version features a classic water-based frosting, which will not weigh down the taste and will still leave your cinnamon rolls fragrant and crisp.

