name:
Caramelized Tropea Onions
ingredients:
Red Tropea onions: 2lbs(1 kg)
Sugar: 2.5oz(70 g)
Brown sugar: 2.8oz(80 g)
Water: 1cup(250 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Side dish or appetizer? This is the dilemma we face with the deliciousness of caramelized Tropea onions! A delicious sweet and sour preparation that pairs perfectly with both meat and fish main courses, but not only: it's also great to serve as an appetizer on toasted bread croutons to accompany cured meats and cheeses, just like the classic onion jam or Tropea Onion Compote with Balsamic . Furthermore, it can become a tasty condiment for appetizing first courses, such as spaghetti with tomato and caramelized onions , or even sandwiches like the sandwich with roast beef ! Many different uses for a recipe with a unique flavor, made with a particular variety of red onions typical of Calabria that stands out for its delicacy and digestibility. Are you tempted to try it? Follow our instructions and then don't forget to tell us how you served your caramelized Tropea onions!
If you love Tropea onions, here are some other simple recipes:
To prepare the caramelized Tropea onions, start by peeling them, removing both the skin and the two ends . Then move on to slicing, you can slice them not too thinly with a smooth blade , collect the obtained rounds in a container .
Pour the sliced onions into a large pan along with the granulated sugar and the brown sugar , mix well so that the ingredients blend together well and add the water .
Cook for about an hour over moderate heat , stirring occasionally with gentle care not to crumble the onions. Once cooking is complete, check the temperature with a kitchen thermometer, it should reach 230°F; the mixture will have darkened and the liquid almost completely dried up . Your caramelized Tropea onions are ready, place them in a bowl and enjoy them to accompany meats or on crispy bread croutons !
The caramelized onions can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days, closed in an airtight container.
Brown sugar will give a more rustic aftertaste, but if you don't have it, you can replace it with the same amount of granulated sugar.

