name:
Zucchini Tart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)- cold
Fine salt: 1pinch
Zucchini: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Shallot: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 8oz(220 g)- (4 medium)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 4.2oz(120 g)- sweet
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)- to be grated
Sweet Pancetta: 5.5oz(160 g)- cut into cubes

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + 40 minutes of dough resting

instructions:
The picnic season is officially open! Let's bring out our wicker baskets and get ready to prepare lots of tasty treats for our trips out of town, like the zucchini tart! The absolute stars of our lunches en plein air , savory pies are a classic must-have of home cooking, perfect to cook in advance and delicious to enjoy both hot and cold. Today we propose a classic recipe, made with shortcrust pastry , which will give a really special taste and texture... a quick alternative to pizza dough , usually used to prepare many savory pies. For the filling of the zucchini tart, the beautiful season helps us with its juicy zucchinis and to add a tasty touch we included irresistible cubes of pancetta and scamorza. Are you ready to get your hands in the dough? Come discover our recipe! Here are other recipes not to miss to prepare a delicious savory pie :
To prepare the zucchini savory pie, start by making the shortcrust pastry: in a bowl, combine the flour, butter , water , and a pinch of salt . Begin to work the mixture by hand in the bowl .
As soon as the dough begins to take shape, transfer it to a surface and continue to work it until it is homogeneous . Try not to overwork the dough and not to heat it too much, otherwise the butter will start to melt. Wrap it in plastic wrap and let it rest for 30-40 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the filling. Trim the zucchinis and cut them into rounds about 0.12 inches thick . Clean the shallot and chop it finely .
Now move on to the pancetta: first cut it into strips and then into half inch cubes . Now pour a drizzle of oil into a large non-stick pan, add the shallot and let it sauté over low heat. Add the pancetta and let it brown. When it is well browned, also add the zucchinis and let them cook on high heat for about ten minutes. Then turn off the heat and let them cool down.
In the meantime, also cut the scamorza cheese into half inch cubes. In a bowl, break the eggs, add salt, pepper and beat them with a fork . Also add the grated Parmesan and mix well .
Pour in the zucchinis that should be lukewarm by now and incorporate them into the egg mixture . Add the scamorza, keeping aside a handful for the final decoration .
Mix well with a spatula and set aside the filling. Take the dough from the fridge and roll it out, using a little flour, on a pastry board . You should obtain a diameter of about 11.8 inches and a thickness of 0.08 inches .
Use the pastry sheet to line a 10-inch mold . Gently press with your hands to make it adhere well to the edges, then using a knife remove the excess dough , to finish the edges . Keep the leftover dough aside because it will be needed shortly.
Pour the zucchini mixture into the shortcrust pastry shell and spread it well ; arrange the remaining pieces of scamorza on top . Knead the shortcrust pastry scraps again .
Roll out the dough again to a thickness of 0.08 inches and with a pastry cutter get seven strips 10 inches long and 0.8 inches wide , which will be used for the diamonds. Place 4 of them in the same direction .
Now place another three in the other direction crossing them and remove the excess dough, so as to obtain the classic diamonds . Bake in a preheated conventional oven at 355°F on the lower rack for about 50 minutes. When it is well browned, take it out of the oven and serve it hot or warm.
You can keep the zucchini savory pie in the refrigerator for 2 days. If you want to prepare the shortcrust pastry in advance, you can store it in the fridge for 2 days, well wrapped in plastic wrap, or freeze it for up to a month.
Have fun varying the filling with always new combinations: as an alternative to pancetta, you can use cooked ham, and instead of scamorza, another melting cheese!

