name:
Catalan Cream
ingredients:
Milk: 2cups(500 g)
Egg yolks: 4
Sugar: 4oz(100 g)
Lemons: 1
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Cornstarch: 2tbsp(25 g)
Brown sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
A cousin of the creme brulée , but of Spanish rather than French origins, Catalan cream is a spoon dessert perfect for the end of a meal! The delightful crust characterizes both recipes, but although similar in appearance, these two preparations are distinguished by a substantial difference. Creme brulée is cooked in a bain-marie, as are creme caramel and Portuguese Milk , whereas Catalan cream is cooked on the stove and thickened by adding starch, just like custard . The flavoring is also different, in fact, cinnamon is used in Catalan cream instead of vanilla. Catalan cream is a dessert now famous worldwide that is hard to resist... arm yourself with a spoon and fall into this creamy temptation, just like we did!
Don't miss also the recipe for Pasteis de nata , a small cream delight of Portuguese origin!
To prepare Catalan cream, first pour the corn starch into a bowl, add a small part of the 2 cups (500 g) of milk and mix with a whisk to dissolve it . Pour the remaining part of the milk into a pot ,
add the cinnamon, the zest of one lemon , and 1.76 ounces (50 g) of sugar . Mix with a whisk and heat until it boils.
In the meantime, in another bowl pour the egg yolks and the other 1.75 ounces (50 g) of sugar . Beat with a whisk , then add the dissolved corn starch and mix with a whisk .
When the milk has reached boiling , strain it directly into the bowl with the egg mixture and mix always with a whisk .
Transfer back into the pot and cook on the stove, stirring continuously, until you get a smooth and creamy consistency .
Transfer the obtained cream into the ramekins (16-17), cover with plastic wrap, and let cool in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours .
When ready to serve, take the ramekins, sprinkle brown sugar over the entire surface and go over it with a torch to allow the sugar to caramelize . When the typical crust has formed, serve your Catalan cream .
Catalan cream can be stored in the refrigerator well covered for 2-3 days at most. We recommend creating the crust only at the moment of serving.
If you prefer to further flavor it, you can grate some nutmeg to mix with the brown sugar for the garnish.

