name:
Baked sea bream
ingredients:
Sea bream: 2lbs(900 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Rosemary: 1sprig
Thyme: 1sprig
Lemons: 2slices
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
New potatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Salt: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average
Note the cooking time of the fish may vary based on its size

instructions:
The baked sea bream, along with the sea bass, is one of the most loved main courses based on fish thanks to its simplicity. In fact, making it is really easy, you just need to enrich the fish with aromatic herbs and place it on a baking tray together with the potatoes... the oven will do the rest. By respecting the cooking times and the size of the fish you will get tender meat and perfectly crispy potatoes! This dish is always appreciated by everyone, so much so that it never fails to appear on the menu of a good fish restaurant; you can make it for many occasions, such as Sunday lunch, but also for a dinner with friends. To fully enjoy the taste of the sea bream, always make sure to buy fresh fish, preferably not farmed, you will feel the difference! And if you are worried about the bones, do not worry, cleaning the fish will not be so difficult thanks to a perfect cooking. Here are other recipes with sea bream not to be missed:
To prepare the baked sea bream start with cleaning the sea bream: use scissors to cut the fins , then descale it under running water using the back of a knife or, if you have it, with the special tool for scaling fish or with a knife blade. With a pair of scissors, make a cut on the belly of the sea bream, proceeding straight up to under the head .
At this point remove the guts and rinse the sea bream well under running water to eliminate any impurities . Fill the cavity with sprigs of rosemary .
Add also sprigs of thyme , the two cloves of garlic, then salt and pepper . Finally, insert two lemon slices .
Now move on to the potatoes. Wash them well and without peeling them cut each one into 4 wedges. Transfer to a bowl and season with oil and flaky salt .
Add some dry oregano and mix well . Now transfer the sea bream to a large baking dish and add the potatoes too .
Arrange them well around the fish, without overlapping . Add more rosemary and lemon slices, if you like. Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 40 minutes. Halfway through cooking, stir the potatoes for even cooking. Remove from the oven and serve your baked sea bream.
It is recommended to consume the sea bream as soon as it is baked. If there are leftovers, store them together with the potatoes in the refrigerator, well covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for 1-2 days at most. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can also cut the potatoes into slices for crispy chips.
Once the fish is cleaned, season the fillets with salt and oil.

