name:
Linguine with shrimp, zucchini, and saffron
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Zucchini: 0.7lb(300 g)
Shrimps: 10.6oz(300 g)- red
Saffron: 1tsp(0.125 g)- (1 packet)
Shallot: 1.75oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: 1pinch
Fine salt: 1pinch
Marjoram: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Zucchini and shrimp? An unbeatable duo, which we wanted to enhance at its best with this recipe: linguine with shrimp, zucchini, and saffron. A creamy pasta first course whose texture is easily achieved without the need for cream, thanks to a flavorful bisque! All the taste of the exquisite red shrimp meets the sweetness of zucchini and marries perfectly with a precious spice like saffron that gives color and further enhances the taste of the dish! If you too love seafood first courses, this combination of aromas and fragrances will win you over without reservation!
Don't miss other delicious first courses with shrimp:
To prepare linguine with shrimp, zucchini, and saffron start by cleaning the red shrimp: detach the head , remove the shells and extract the intestine, then set them aside in a bowl .
Prepare the bisque: in a sufficiently large saucepan pour a drizzle of oil and wait for it to become scorching, then add the shells and let them toast well. When they are nicely browned, deglaze with 2 cups of cold water and let it cook for 10 minutes.
Once the bisque is ready , strain into a bowl or jug and set aside. Now slice the zucchini into half-moons about 0.2 inches thick .
Also chop the shallot and cut the shrimp into 0.2-inch pieces . In a non-stick pan, heat a drizzle of oil and add the shrimp .
Sauté them for a few minutes , then remove and set aside. In the same pan where you cooked the shrimp, also sauté the shallot . Then add the zucchini .

When the zucchini are well browned, add the shrimp and turn off the heat. Season with salt and pepper. Pour a tablespoon of bisque into a small bowl and dissolve the saffron powder in it .
Cook the linguine in boiling salted water, undercooking it by 2-3 minutes. Drain it into the pan with the sauce and finish the cooking by adding the saffron mix and the bisque little by little as the pasta dries out .
At the end, finish by adding a drizzle of oil , pepper, and marjoram leaves . Serve the linguine with shrimp, zucchini, and saffron hot .
It would be advisable to serve the linguine with shrimp, zucchini, and saffron while still hot! Alternatively, you can keep them for a maximum of one day in the refrigerator, closed in an airtight container.
The bisque can be frozen if you have used fresh shrimp not previously frozen.
With the leftover bisque, you can make a delicious fisherman's risotto whenever you want!

