name:
Waffle
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2.3cups(280 g)
Butter: 8oz(220 g)
Eggs: 6
Baking powder: ½tsp(2 g)
Sugar: 3cups(180 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1tsp
Butter: to taste
Fresh fruit: to taste
Maple syrup: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 8 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + resting time for the dough in the refrigerator (1 h)

instructions:
Originating in Europe and gaining popularity especially in Belgium, the Netherlands, France, and Germany, they embarked on a long sea journey and landed in the New World, where they made a new name and life for themselves: we’re not talking about a fortunate story of immigration but the evolution of the waffle, delicious overseas cousins of the Gaufre ! In both cases, they are soft waffles with the unmistakable honeycomb shape, ideal to enjoy at breakfast or brunch with the addition of the most varied ingredients: chocolate and sprinkles for the sweet tooths, strawberries and whipped cream for the romantics, or poached eggs and crispy bacon for the salty lovers... there’s even a cheese variant called Chaffle ! In short, anything your imagination suggests can be used to make your waffles more and more appetizing and irresistible. We were inspired by the typical presentation of pancakes and served them with maple syrup, fresh fruit, and powdered sugar: and you, have you already thought about which topping to start with? Also discover how to make butterless waffles !
To prepare the waffles, first melt the butter in the microwave or in a double boiler and let it cool. Meanwhile, break the room temperature eggs into a bowl and slightly beat them with a whisk, then add the sugar and mix again. Sift the flour and baking powder directly into the bowl,
add the salt and mix, first slowly then more and more vigorously with the whisk to incorporate the powders into the mixture and remove any lumps . Once it has cooled down, pour the melted butter into the bowl a little at a time, so as to gradually incorporate it with the whisk .
At this point, split the vanilla pod in half lengthwise and scrape out the seeds with the blade of a knife , then add them to the mixture and mix again until you get a rather fluid, thick, and homogeneous consistency . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let the batter rest in the refrigerator for at least an hour.
After the resting time, allow the batter to come to room temperature and in the meantime heat up the waffle iron to temperature. When the iron is hot, brush it with a bit of melted butter and pour a scant ladleful of batter into the honeycomb-shaped mold to completely cover the surface . Close the iron and let cook for about 7-8 minutes (check the cooking status of the waffles after a few minutes).
When the waffles have taken on a nice golden color, open the lid, gently detach them from the iron and transfer them to a plate . Garnish your delicious waffles as you like with maple syrup, fresh fruit, and a dusting of powdered sugar !
It is recommended to consume the waffles as soon as they are ready. Alternatively, they can be frozen after cooking.
The batter can be stored for no more than 12 hours in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap.
To make this recipe, you need to have the appropriate waffle iron: there are various shapes and sizes on the market, so always check the instructions to achieve optimal cooking. You can garnish the waffles with your favorite ingredients, both sweet and savory, or fill them sandwich-style as in our Waffle sandwich recipe!

