name:
Salsa Verde
ingredients:
Anchovies in oil: 3
Garlic: 2cloves
Parsley: 1cup(120 g)
Salted capers: 1spoonful
Egg yolks: 2
White wine vinegar: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Stale bread: 1 ½cup(80 g)- only the crumb
Extra virgin olive oil: 5oz(150 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + 2 hours of resting

instructions:
Whether it's because meat becomes fibrous after a while, or because the flavor risks becoming monotonous, but let's face it, as good as boiled meat can be - sometimes - it becomes a chore to get through. Fortunately, the Piedmontese knew how to invent the right condiment to accompany it and make it good and tasty again, namely the Salsa Verde (green sauce). A tasty mix of ingredients common to many dishes of the region's tradition, such as garlic, anchovies, and parsley, the real star of the recipe, make the bagnet verd , that is, the green sauce, the perfect union between a recipe now lacking in flavor and the perfect condiment to bring it back into vogue... or rather, make it special once again! And for those who love strong flavors, also try the Argentine version: the chimichurri . If you are looking for other Piedmontese recipes, try the braised !
To prepare the salsa verde, start with the hard-boiled eggs. Heat water in a pot and as soon as the water boils, immerse the eggs which should be covered by the water and cook them for about 8-9 minutes then let them cool for a moment before peeling . Finally, sieve the yolks into a container .
Then remove the crust from the bread and cut the crumb into pieces which you will pour into a bowl along with the vinegar . Let it soak for about ten minutes. Meanwhile, peel, halve, and remove the germ from the garlic , that is, the central part.
Rinse the capers repeatedly under running water to desalinate them and chop them together with the garlic and anchovies , pressing down on the mince with a knife to crush it well to get a well-blended paste
which you will pour into the bowl with the yolk . Squeeze the breadcrumbs with your hands and add them to the bowl . Finally, finely chop the parsley leaves, well washed and dried
and also pour these into the container along with a pinch of salt and pepper. Mix thoroughly and sprinkle with the extra virgin olive oil . Let it rest at room temperature for a couple of hours and your green sauce is ready to accompany the dishes you like the most, from boiled meats to fish to bruschetta !
The green sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for several days, it is important to keep it in a glass jar and cover well with oil, just as you would with Genoese pesto.
How to make the salsa verde more fluid and creamy? Blend for a few moments in a mixer! The addition of the yolk is optional, omit it if you prefer. For a slightly spicier flavor add cubes of bell pepper!
The salsa verde is a typical recipe of the Piedmontese tradition, created with the intention of accompanying boiled meat but not only. It is often found in combination with tomini, the famous round cheeses typical of the area, or served on bruschettas during aperitifs while sipping a good typical wine. Recently, the salsa verde has been included among the Traditional Agri-food Products of Piedmont.

