name:
Banana Pancake
ingredients:
Bananas: 1- ripe
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Baking powder: 1 ¼tsp(6 g)
Butter: to taste
Bananas: to taste
Maple syrup: to taste
Dark chocolate: to taste- in flakes

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
It's Sunday, the perfect day to indulge in delicious pancakes ! This time we are making banana pancakes, a tasty and nutritious variant, and the ideal solution to use those bananas that are a bit too ripe to eat. A delicious alternative to banana bread , perfect to top with classic maple syrup and, why not, some dark chocolate chips! But why limit this pleasure to just Sunday? Banana pancakes are so easy and quick to make, even in advance, that you can enjoy them any other day of the week!
Also try these pancake recipes:

To prepare banana pancakes, first melt the butter in a small saucepan and let it cool. Meanwhile, peel the banana and cut 150 g of the pulp into pieces . Transfer the pulp to a bowl and mash it with a fork .
Add the egg , milk , and cooled melted butter .
Mix well with a whisk . In a separate bowl, add flour and sugar , then sift in the baking powder and mix.
Pour the egg mixture into the bowl with the dry ingredients , then mix everything with a whisk to obtain a homogeneous batter . Heat a non-stick pan and grease it with a little butter .
Pour a couple of spoonfuls of batter into the center of the pan and spread it slightly with the back of the spoon to obtain a disc about 4 inches in diameter . Cook over medium-low heat until the first bubbles appear, then flip the pancake with a spatula .
Cook for another minute on the other side , then transfer the pancake to a plate. You can cook more pancakes at a time, depending on the size of the pan. Continue this way, stacking them as they are ready . Once they are done, stack the pancakes and add some banana slices on top .
Garnish with maple syrup to taste and dark chocolate chips . Your banana pancakes are ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the banana pancakes immediately; alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator for one day in an airtight container and reheat them later in the microwave.
You can prepare the batter in advance and store it in the refrigerator for up to 12 hours. Freezing is not recommended.
If desired, you can enrich the batter with some chopped nuts or flavor it with a pinch of cinnamon.

