name:
Baked Chicken Drumsticks
ingredients:
Chicken drumsticks: 1.9lbs(870 g)- 8 drumsticks
Potatoes: 2lbs(850 g)
Hot Paprika: 2tsp
Rosemary: 3sprigs
Thyme: 3sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
A must in Italian cuisine are definitely baked chicken drumsticks, really easy to prepare because they do not require special attention. Just like for roast chicken, even those who are less experienced in the kitchen will be able to achieve a succulent and amazing result with this main course! The thighs are the most beloved part of the chicken and often contested at the table among all guests. By adding the right spices and respecting the cooking times, you will get tender meat inside and a delicious crispy crust that goes perfectly with baked potatoes... or, why not, with pan-fried potatoes! Make these delicious baked chicken drumsticks yourself, a dish suitable for all seasons that no one will be able to resist!
Here are other recipes for cooking chicken:

To prepare baked chicken drumsticks, transfer the drumsticks to a baking dish and season them with oil , salt , and pepper. Peel the potatoes .
Cut them into 8 wedges , lay them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper and season them with oil , salt, and pepper. Lay the chicken drumsticks .
Season with thyme and rosemary . Finally, a sprinkle of hot paprika .
Cook in a preheated static oven at 450°F for 40 minutes . After 20 minutes, turn the chicken drumsticks and stir the potatoes for even cooking. After 40 minutes, mix the potatoes again with a spatula and cook for another 5 minutes still at 450°F but switching to convection mode. Serve your baked chicken drumsticks immediately !
Baked chicken drumsticks can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day.
Freezing is not recommended.
Add the aromatic herbs you love and enrich the side dish with other seasonal vegetables!
For a more golden and crispy effect, you can set the oven to 430°F convection and continue cooking for 10 minutes.
Looking for a no-oven alternative? Try the pan-fried chicken thighs recipe!

