name:
Chicken and Mashed Potatoes
ingredients:
Chicken Thighs: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (4 pieces, with skin)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: to taste
Sage: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2spoonfuls- to grate
Egg yolks: 2
Garlic: 2cloves- (in the shell)
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the chicken and mashed potatoes, first boil the potatoes starting from cold water for about 35-40 minutes, or until they are soft enough to be easily pierced with a fork . Meanwhile, take the chicken thighs, season both sides with oil and salt, then massage the meat with your hands . Let it rest for 10 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the flavored oil: finely chop a clove of garlic , then add a pinch of salt and crush it with the knife blade to obtain a sort of paste. Finely chop the aromatic herbs as well, keeping one sprig of rosemary aside .
Pour the oil into a bowl, then add the garlic and herbs and stir with the rosemary sprig, which will be used to brush the meat .
Place the thighs skin-side down in a warm pan and brown over medium heat for 10 minutes, occasionally brushing with the flavored oil . While the chicken is cooking, focus on the mashed potatoes: pour the milk into a saucepan, season with the 2 crushed garlic cloves in their skins and some aromatic herbs , and bring to just below boiling.
Peele the cooked potatoes roughly and pass them through a potato ricer while still hot . Add the milk little by little, filtering it through a sieve , and mix well with a hand whisk ; adjust the amount of milk based on the consistency you want to achieve.
At this point, add the butter , the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP , and the egg yolks .
Stir again to combine everything and keep warm. After 10 minutes of cooking, you'll see that the skin has become nice and crispy, so flip the thighs and cook for another 5 minutes .
When the meat is cooked, you can plate: spread a bed of mashed potatoes at the base of the plate and place a thigh on top . Drizzle with the cooking juices, then garnish with flakes of salt, pepper, and a few thyme leaves. Your chicken and mashed potatoes are ready to be served !
The chicken and mashed potatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
We chose to use thighs because they remain juicier: browning them at a not too high temperature will cause them to lose some of their fat, and the skin will become nice and crispy!
Adding egg yolks results in a richer and more intensely colored mashed potato, but you can omit them if you prefer.
You can vary the mix of aromatic herbs to your liking!

