name:
Pasta and Chickpeas
ingredients:
Pipe Rigate pasta: 3cups(320 g)
Precooked chickpeas: 1lb(500 g)
Yellow onions: 1.8oz(50 g)
Celery: ½cup(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste
Smoked pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6tbsp(40 g)
Tomato purée: 9oz(250 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Carrots: 1.8oz(50 g)
White wine: 1.8oz(50 g)-
Tomato paste: ½tbsp(8 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Chickpeas are legumes that, with their genuineness and sweetness, lend themselves to the preparation of very different recipes, from those linked to regional traditions such as chickpea farinata , typical of Ligurian cuisine, to more rustic recipes like chickpea soup or Chickpeas with Tomato , up to appetizing starters or mains like Baked Chickpea Omelette or chickpea burger . If you feel like a nice plate of pasta that encapsulates simple yet tasty and flavorful ingredients, we propose a recipe from the Italian tradition, with the good taste of the past: pasta and chickpeas! A dish that you have surely brought to your table at least once, perhaps in the classic "in bianco" version. However, we suggest a delicious variant with the addition of tomato sauce and pancetta, which will give an extra touch to the recipe, creating a tasty contrast with the delicate flavor of chickpeas. So don't hesitate to try this appetizing and succulent version of pasta and chickpeas, which with its genuine goodness will warm you up on the coldest winter evenings!
Don't miss these tasty variations of pasta and chickpeas:

To prepare the pasta and chickpeas, start with the sofrito: you will need first of all a carrot, celery, an onion, and a garlic clove . Wash the vegetables and finely chop the carrot , the celery ,
the onion. Also finely chop the rosemary, and set all the ingredients aside . In a pan with some oil, add the onion, let it brown, then add the celery and the carrot , and let them soften for a few minutes,
then add the garlic clove and let it flavor , stirring occasionally so as not to burn the sofrito . Add the pancetta rind ,
and cut the rest of the pancetta into small strips . Transfer them to the pan , add the chopped rosemary and let it sauté for a few minutes.
Deglaze with the white wine , season with salt and pepper and add the chickpeas to the pan .
Add the tomato sauce , let it simmer on low heat for at least 15 minutes, then add the tomato paste and dilute with a ladle of water .
Then remove the pancetta rind and the garlic clove , take about a third of the chickpeas and put them in the blender .
Blend until you get a creamy consistency ; meanwhile, bring a pot of salted water to a boil, throw in the pasta and cook it al dente. Put the cream obtained together with the sofrito in the pan ,
Drain the pasta al dente, add it to the pan and stir well mixing everything together , so that the pasta blends well with all the ingredients: your pasta and chickpeas is ready to be enjoyed !
You can store the pasta and chickpeas in an airtight container in the refrigerator, for a maximum of one day.
If you prefer your pasta and chickpeas to be more brothy, you can add vegetable broth.
To add an extra touch of flavor you can sprinkle some grated Parmesan before serving it or replace the pancetta with guanciale .
You can also use fresh chickpeas, but remember to soak them for at least 12 hours before cooking them.
If you love chickpeas, try them as a snack with the recipe for Crispy Baked Chickpeas !

