name:
Beef Broth
ingredients:
Beef: 1lb(500 g)- lean beef shoulder
Beef: 1lb(400 g)- beef ribs
Beef: 1lb(400 g)- the bones
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 2
Yellow onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Water: 4quarts(4 l)
Cloves: 2
Fine salt: to taste
Ground black pepper: to taste
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Parsley: 1bunch
Juniper berries: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 3 h 5 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
What a magical aroma coming from the kitchen! What's boiling in the pot? A succulent beef broth, one of the basic preparations of Italian cuisine along with its close relatives, the vegetable broth and the chicken broth . Every grandmother, mother, or family worth their salt guards the secret to the perfect broth, but today we have decided to share with you our version so you no longer have to resort to stock cubes ! Imagine the convenience of having a beef broth always ready to use for your favorite winter dishes: tortellini , Cappelletti , passatelli , or for cooking extraordinary risottos! The broth makes a difference in recipes, indeed, and if prepared at home it has a whole other flavor, thanks to the use of genuine ingredients, the aromas that enrich it, and a prolonged cooking time to give it the right consistency. Once ready, you can also use the boiled meat to make delicious Boiled Meat and Ricotta Balls !
To prepare the beef broth wash and peel celery and carrot, then chop the vegetables into coarse chunks . Halve the onion . Heat a non-stick pan and place the onion in it .
Sear it for a few minutes without adding fats . In a large pot, pour the meat, the bones , carrot, and celery .
Also add the seared onion , the bay leaves , and the parsley .
Complete with cloves, juniper berries, peppercorns , and a pinch of salt. Cover with water and bring to a boil, then lower to medium heat and cook for about 3 hours. During this time, it will be necessary to skim the broth, i.e., remove the fat and impurities that will stabilize on the surface with a skimmer .
At the end of cooking, the broth will be less liquid and more concentrated. All that remains is to filter the broth to separate the liquid from meats, vegetables, and spices (the latter can be discarded because they are now wilted). To filter it, you can use a sieve covered with a light, clean towel . Pour the broth back into the pot and adjust the salt . At this point, your beef broth is ready to be used in your preparations !
The beef broth can be stored for 4-5 days in the refrigerator, well sealed in an airtight container. You can also freeze it (if you have used only fresh ingredients and not thawed), preferably already portioned for a more practical use when needed.
This beef broth is a version that welcomes any alternative you like starting from the cuts of meat, we have used those richer in fat, to the vegetables which you can change or add to those you find during the season when you prepare the beef broth. The same applies to the spices and aromatic herbs that are indicated. What to do with the meat? The boiled meat is excellent consumed just ready, because it will still be tender and tasty, cut it into chunks or shred it accompanied by some broth. Alternatively, you can mince the meat to make the famous Milanese meatballs, the mondeghili , or more general Meatballs . Some other variant? Sauté the boiled meat in a pan with tomato sauce or accompany with seasonal sautéed vegetables reheating everything in the pan.

