name:
Vegetable broth
ingredients:
Water: 8 ½cups(2 l)
Carrots: 1 ½cup(200 g)- (to clean)
Yellow onions: 7.1oz(200 g)- (to clean)
Celery: 1 ½cup(150 g)- (to clean)
Cluster tomatoes: 5.3oz(150 g)
Ground black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 1 h 2 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Vegetable broth, just like meat broth and fish stock , is a basic preparation in cooking, essential for adding depth and flavor to many dishes. With its light and delicate taste, it is perfect for enriching risottos, roasts, soups, broths, and creams. The secret to a good broth is definitely the choice of vegetables, which must be very fresh and in season. Another trick is toasting the onion, which adds a more intense and aromatic note. All spices and herbs are allowed to personalize and flavor this preparation. Of course, don't throw away the leftover vegetables... you can blend them to season a first course or to make delicious meatballs with broth vegetables! Without preservatives or additives, homemade vegetable broth is a healthy and natural alternative to stock cubes or industrial preparations and will add a touch of genuineness to your dishes.
There are many ways to prepare broth, try, for example:

To prepare the vegetable broth, first wash and clean the vegetables. Cut the carrot and celery into pieces. Halve the tomatoes .
Do the same with the onion and place it in the pot with the cut side facing down . Turn on the heat and toast the onion for about 1 and a half minutes, being careful not to burn it. Then turn it over and toast for another minute .
Add the other vegetables , then pour a little water to deglaze the bottom . At this point, cover with the rest of the water and season with peppercorns and salt .
Bring to a boil and let it simmer without a lid, or with the lid slightly ajar, for about an hour. Taste and, if necessary, adjust the salt. After the cooking time, strain the broth through a sieve . The vegetable broth is ready to be used in your recipes !
Vegetable broth can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days in an airtight container, once completely cooled.
If you wish to store it longer, you can freeze it: pour it into suitable containers or ice cube trays, so you'll always have ready-to-use portions. Frozen broth lasts for about 3 months.
Do not skip the onion step, essential for improving the flavor and also the color of your vegetable broth.
Vary the vegetables according to the seasons. The tomato can be omitted or replaced with a dash of tomato paste.
For a more complex broth, add bay leaves and cloves.
For a saltier note, you can add a few drops of soy sauce.

