name:
Zucchini Frittata
ingredients:
Eggs: 6
Zucchini: 13.5oz(380 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(50 g)- grated
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
What's better than a frittata when you're short on time to cook? Tasty and nutritious, it satisfies with flavor and is a fantastic fridge-clearing solution! Zucchini frittata is a vegetarian variant that's very easy and quick to prepare. The firm texture of the sautéed zucchini pairs perfectly with the softness of the eggs for a second course that's as simple as it is appetizing, suitable for the whole family. Great whether hot or at room temperature, the zucchini frittata is also ideal to be served in squares for an aperitif and is irresistible inside a sandwich!
After the skillet version, also try the Baked Zucchini Frittata and other delicious frittata recipes for all seasons:
To make the zucchini frittata, first trim the zucchini and slice them into rounds about 0.12 inches thick . Heat a swirl of oil in a non-stick skillet with a diameter of 8.7 inches (preferably with flared sides), then add the zucchini , salt, and cook over high heat for about 10 minutes, stirring as little as possible .
In the meantime, beat the eggs in a bowl together with the grated Parmigiano Reggiano PDO , salt, and pepper . Mix the ingredients well. Once the zucchini has nicely colored, lower the heat and arrange them with a spatula to evenly cover the base. Then pour the egg mixture over them .
Cover with the lid and cook over low heat for 10 minutes . After this time, the top will be set but not solid , so gently slide the frittata onto a plate .
Flip the frittata back into the skillet and cook on the other side for 2-3 minutes, without a lid . Serve your zucchini frittata hot, warm, or at room temperature !
The zucchini frittata can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days, in an airtight container.
Light zucchinis are particularly suitable for this preparation because they are firmer and less watery, but dark zucchinis can also be used without any problem.
We recommend using a non-stick skillet with flared sides: this way, it will be easier to slide the frittata onto the plate without damaging it!
If you prefer, you can omit the Parmigiano Reggiano PDO or replace it or enrich it with cubed cheese that you have available in the refrigerator.

