name:
Oven-baked falafel
ingredients:
Dried chickpeas: 3cups(500 g)
Onions: 2oz(80 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1tbsp(10 g)
Powdered cumin: tsp
Sweet Paprika: tsp
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Greek yogurt: 1cup(250 g)
Lemon juice: 1tbsp(20 g)
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp
Garlic powder: 1pinch
Parsley: to taste- finely chopped

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 25 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + soaking time for dried chickpeas (at least 12 h) and cooling time for the mixture (1-2 h)

instructions:
Falafels are traditional legume balls known for their spicy flavor, popular throughout the Middle East. This recipe offers a lighter, yet equally delicious, variant. They are quickly prepared after soaking chickpeas overnight, with just the help of a food processor. The mixture seasoned with onion, garlic and parsley can be enriched with whatever spices you like. We've served these golden bites with a yogurt sauce as a delicious appetizer served with drinks, but it is also perfect with classic babaganoush , for example. Oven-baked falafel is an excellent vegetarian filling as an alternative to classic kebab!
Discover these versions too:
To make oven-baked falafel, start by rinsing the dried chickpeas; cover with water and leave them to soak for at least 12 hours . Once this time is up, drain the chickpeas and place them on a dry cloth . Thoroughly dab with  absorbent paper to dry them .
Once dried, place the chickpeas in a mixer, together with the coarsely chopped onion , blend and then add the de-germed garlic clove and the cumin .
Season with the salt , pepper and paprika . Blend some more, then add the parsley .
Blend until mellow and homogeneous ; if the mixture is too soft, add a little chickpea flower, or if it is too stiff, add a drizzle of evo oil. Place the mixture in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap and leave to rest in the refrigerator for 1-2 hours . Once this time is up, take a spoon of the mixture and shape into slightly flattened balls, roughly 1.2 oz each: dampening your hands will help .
Place the balls on a tray lined with parchment paper and bake in a preheated static oven at 350° for around 20 minutes, then turn them over and bake for another 5-10 minutes . Prepare the sauce in the meantime: place the greek yogurt and the lemon juice in a bowl.
Add the garlic powder and the chopped parsley , a pinch of salt and pepper. Stir to amalgamate .
Lastly, add the paprika and stir some more . Your oven-baked falafel is ready : serve right away, with the yogurt sauce!
Oven-baked falafel is best enjoyed while still hot. If necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator for 3-4 days.
Do not freeze.
To guarantee the best possible result with this recipe, it is important that the chickpeas are nice and dry: if you prefer, instead of dabbing them with absorbent paper, you can cook them in a preheated ventilated oven at 210° for 10 minutes, or in an air fryer at 210° for 5 minutes.

