name:
Babaganoush
ingredients:
Eggplant: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Tahini: 1.75oz(50 g)
Lemon juice: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the babaganoush, start by washing and thoroughly drying the eggplants. Then place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake them in a static oven preheated to 350°F for 1 hour and a half (if using a fan oven, bake at 320°F for 1 hour and 20), turning them a couple of times to ensure they cook well on all sides. When the skin is wrinkled and they have reached a soft consistency , take them out of the oven and, once they have cooled down, remove the stem .
Score the skin with the tip of a knife , open the eggplants and scoop out the pulp with a spoon . Transfer the pulp to a large bowl and mash it with the tines of a fork , then season with salt and pepper to taste.
Pour in the extra virgin olive oil and crush a clove of garlic into the mixture with the relevant tool , or chop it with a knife. Now squeeze the juice of a lemon with a juicer and strain the obtained juice into a bowl with a strainer .
Gradually pour the strained lemon juice into the mixture, you can check from time to time if all of it is needed or add it later . Add the tahini . Mix everything well .
Place some mint leaves on a cutting board and chop them finely , then add them to the mixture and mix everything together , until you get a thick and lumpy cream . Your babaganoush is now ready to be enjoyed!
You can store the babaganoush in the fridge in an airtight container or well covered with film for 3-4 days. You can freeze it and thaw it in the refrigerator the day before using it.
You must try the complete meal at least once in your life: babaganoush, pita, naan, and baked falafel ... you won't regret it! In some places, babaganoush is served with a sprinkle of chopped parsley instead of mint leaves... which do you prefer?

