name:
Flavorful Herb Lentils
ingredients:
Dried lentils: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Onions: 1
Bay leaves: 3leaves
Cloves: 5
Juniper: 6berries
Smoked pancetta: 3oz(80 g)
Vegetable broth: 6 ⅓cups(1.5 l)
Red wine: ⅓cup(80 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Lentils are one of the most used legumes in the kitchen with which you can make many dishes. We want to show you a truly delicious way to prepare them: flavorful herb lentils, great on their own or with pasta. Lentils are symbols of luck and abundance, which is why they must never be missing from the New Year's table, together with cotechino, served as a side dish! In this recipe, the lentils are cooked with a sauté of onion and bacon, flavored with bay leaves, juniper, and cloves, and seasoned with red wine. They will be ready in less than an hour, in fact, this type of legume does not need soaking and is definitely one of the quickest cooking! So what are you waiting for? Try our recipe!
Here are more lentil recipes:
To prepare the flavorful herb lentils first slice the pancetta into slices and then into small cubes . Also chop the onion .
In a large pot pour a drizzle of oil, the chopped onion , bay leaves , and juniper berries .
Add the cloves and pancetta . Turn on medium heat and let it sauté, without burning the onion .
In the meantime, wash the lentils well . When the onion is soft and the pancetta is golden brown, add them to the pot and stir . Wait 3-4 minutes, then deglaze with red wine .
Stir again and as soon as the alcoholic part has evaporated add about 4 cups of broth .
Cover with a lid and cook on low heat for 45-60 minutes. The cooking time depends on the size of the lentils, cook them until they are soft, adding more broth if needed. Once cooked, season with salt and pepper. Serve your lentils adding a drizzle of raw oil .
The flavorful herb lentils can be stored in the refrigerator, placed in an airtight container, for 2-3 days at most.
You can freeze the cooked lentils, just thaw them in the fridge overnight.
Remember that lentils tend to absorb cooking liquids even away from the heat, so, if you do not consume them immediately, keep some broth aside to add to the preparation.
For a vegetarian version, simply omit the pancetta, or replace it with a carrot!
Looking for a way to prepare vegetable broth in a few minutes? Discover how to make our homemade stock!

