name:
Cuttlefish with peas
ingredients:
Cuttlefish: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Peas: 3 ½cups(500 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 18oz(500 g)
White onions: 1
White wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Vegetable broth: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Simple and rustic flavors for an exquisitely Italian dish: cuttlefish with peas is a seafood second course that never goes out of fashion, just like stuffed cuttlefish, another timeless homemade recipe. Widespread in many coastal regions, and very often also included in menus as a Christmas main course, it represents a typical dish that knows different small variations: there are those who flavor it with a pinch of chili pepper, those who use fresh tomatoes and those who use concentrate, while some prefer the white version without tomato. An indispensable rule: the cuttlefish must be tender... the secret is to cook the cuttlefish for a short time or a long time, only in this way will they be soft!
Also try:

To prepare the cuttlefish with peas first How to clean cuttlefish , or have your trusted fishmonger do it. Clean the onion and chop it finely . Pour it into the pan with a drizzle of oil and let it soften on low heat, adding a splash of broth or water. Meanwhile, take the cuttlefish, remove the skin and separate the tentacles from the mantle .
Cut them into pieces , then also cut the upper part into strips . As soon as the onion is well stewed, increase the heat and add the cuttlefish .
Stir for a few minutes, then season with salt and pepper. When the cooking base has dried out, deglaze with white wine and let the alcoholic part completely evaporate. At this point, add the peas and the previously crushed peeled tomatoes . Add a bit more broth, stir and lower the flame slightly, then let it cook for 15-20 minutes.
Once cooked, finely chop the parsley and add it to the pan . Give it one last stir and serve your cuttlefish with peas!
You can store the cuttlefish with peas in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to one day.
They can be frozen if you have used fresh, not previously frozen ingredients.
Toast slices of homemade bread and season them with oil and garlic; they will be a perfect accompaniment to the cuttlefish with peas.

