name:
Butter Cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Butter: 7oz(200 g)- chilled
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Vanilla bean: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes of dough resting

instructions:
Butter cookies are soft, very buttery shortbread cookies flavored with vanilla, perfect for enriching with taste and simplicity a cabaret of shortcrust to offer to guests at tea time. For those who love cookies where butter plays a fundamental role, it will be a dream to be served together with the typical Danish biscuits , the shortbread (i.e. English butter cookies), the crumbly jam-filled cookies , and these disks with spectacular taste and texture. All that's left is to dust off the ancient family teapots and the embroidered tablecloths from the grandmothers to set up an elegant English table and sip fragrant tea in company.
If you don't have a cookie cutter, try our recipe for spoon cookies !
To make butter cookies, pour the cold butter into the bowl of the stand mixer equipped with a paddle attachment , add the seeds of a vanilla pod , the sugar
and the salt . Mix for a few seconds, then add the egg yolk to the mixture and mix for about 1 minute. Also add the flour .
Mix until you obtain a homogeneous and compact mixture . Transfer the dough to a lightly floured work surface , work quickly with your hands, form a small loaf .
Wrap it with plastic wrap , place it in the refrigerator, and let it rest for at least 30 minutes. After the resting time, roll out the dough on a pastry board with a rolling pin to a thickness of about 0.31 inches . Cut out the cookies with a round cutter of about 1.57 inches . With these quantities, you will get about 40 cookies, re-kneading the scraps.
Transfer the cookies to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake in a preheated conventional oven at 338°F for about 15 minutes. Remove the cookies from the oven and let them cool before serving .
Store the butter cookies in a tin box for 1 week. You can freeze the raw dough for about 1 month.
To flavor the cookies, you can use citrus zest or ground cinnamon.

