name:
Risotto with radicchio, anchovy butter, and aromatic breadcrumbs
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ⅓cup(240 g)
Radicchio: 10.5oz(300 g)
White wine: ¼(60 g)
Shallot: 2
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup- grated
Butter: ⅔cup(150 g)- soft
Salted anchovies: 2.8oz(80 g)- (already cleaned)
Anchovy paste: 1tsp
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp
Parsley: 2sprigs
Celery: 2small bunches- (leaves)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3tbsp(20 g)- grated
Garlic: 1clove
Lemon zest: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note +2-3 hours of soaking for the anchovies and 30 minutes of resting for the butter

instructions:
The Risotto with Radicchio, Anchovy Butter, and Aromatic Breadcrumbs is an elegant first course that will tantalize your taste buds. The star of the show is the red Treviso radicchio , gently sautéed in a pan to highlight its slight bitter aftertaste. The crispy leaves blend harmoniously with the creamy consistency of the risotto. Crowned with a symphony of flavors, an anchovy cream envelops the risotto with its savory note. The finishing touch is provided by toasted breadcrumbs, enriched with the fresh and lively aroma of parsley, celery leaves, and lemon zest. Here, you'll rediscover an appetizing mix of Italian excellences that come together in a triumph of Mediterranean flavors. Try making Risotto with Radicchio, Anchovy Butter, and Aromatic Breadcrumbs at home for a perfect gourmet dinner!
If you love radicchio risotto, also try these delicious variations:
To prepare the Risotto with Radicchio, Anchovy Butter, and Aromatic Breadcrumbs, start with the anchovy cream: after desalting them in water for a few hours, depending on the need , chop them finely with a knife . Transfer the chopped anchovies to a bowl and add softened butter .
Mix with a spatula to create a creamy mixture . Wrap the mixture in plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes.
In a pan, heat the oil , then add the breadcrumbs and toast until golden .
Transfer the toasted breadcrumbs to a bowl and let cool, then season with chopped garlic , grated Parmigiano Reggiano, chopped celery and parsley leaves , and grated lemon zest .
Season with salt and pepper and mix, then set aside . Clean and chop the shallot . Clean the radicchio by removing the tougher base, then slice it finely .
In a saucepan, pour the oil and the shallot , sauté over low heat and then add the radicchio . Season with salt and pepper and cook for 5 minutes. Transfer the cooked radicchio to a bowl.
In the same saucepan, toast the rice dry . Deglaze with wine and let it evaporate. Cook the rice by adding a ladle of broth at a time, always waiting for the previous one to be absorbed before adding another .
After about 7-8 minutes, add the radicchio , season with salt and continue cooking for another 7-8 minutes. Once cooking is complete, remove from heat and stir in the cold anchovy butter from the fridge .
Also add grated Parmigiano Reggiano and stir to achieve a creamy consistency. Plate the risotto and finish with aromatic breadcrumbs and lemon zest. Your risotto with radicchio, anchovy butter, and aromatic bread is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the Risotto with Radicchio, Anchovy Butter, and Aromatic Breadcrumbs immediately.
The shallot can be replaced with onion.
You can prepare the breadcrumbs with stale bread you have at home.
The anchovy cream is quite savory, so season with salt moderately!

