name:
Thick and soft tray-baked pizza
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1cup(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: 1cup(375 g)
Fine salt: 1tbsp(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(3 g)
Tomato purée: cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Mozzarella cheese: 10oz(300 g)- Fiordilatte cheese

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note plus resting and leavening times (about 5 hours)

instructions:
Fancy some homemade pizza? Today we'll prepare a magnificently tall and soft tray-baked pizza ! To make it we'll use a blend of flours, for a moist and perfectly firm dough that will be just right. We've chosen the most classic of all toppings, mozzarella cheese and tomato, just like in cheese and tomato pizza, which is always popular with everyone! Obviously no one is stopping you from trying out new flavors and enriching this base however you like. The thing you'll need to pay the most attention to with this dough is the folding and resting times. This is the only way to make a moist dough and achieve an extremely soft result! So get ready to make some seriously tall and soft tray-baked pizza for the entire family!?
Discover more delicious Pizza recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare tall and soft tray-baked pizza , place the flour , water and brewers yeast in a large bowl.
Knead by hand for around 5 minutes. When homogeneous, knead the dough as follows: lift one corner and bring it towards the middle of the piece of dough . Turn the bowl and continue in this way, so that the gluten develops and strengthens the dough. Now add the salt .
Then add the oil and vigorously knead the dough by hand in the bowl, until the oil and salt are fully absorbed. Cover the dough with plastic wrap and leave to rest for 10 minutes at room temperature .
After 10 minutes, proceed to fold the dough for the first time. Lift a corner of the dough and bring it towards the middle . Turn the bowl around and repeat this operation, folding or overlapping 4 times in total. Cover with plastic wrap and leave to rest for around 15 minutes. Repeat this operation two more time, folding and resting as indicated. Lastly, cover with plastic wrap and leave to leaven at room temperature for around 2 hours.
When the dough doubles in volume , place it on a lightly greased worktop. Slap and fold twice: lift the dough with both hands and slap it back down . You'll notice how the dough will become stronger and take on a firmer consistency .
Place the dough on a 12x16 inch (30x40 cm) oven tray generously greased with oil . Leave the dough to rest at room temperature for 30 minutes . Now delicately lift and stretch the dough .
It should cover around 80% of the oven tray surface . Leave the dough to rest for another 15 minutes at room temperature and in the meantime, prepare the tomato sauce. Season it simply with salt and oil and stir. Once the resting time is up, the dough will be more relaxed and by delicately stretching it out, you will be able to cover the entire surface of the oven tray .
Pour the tomato sauce over the dough and spread it, leaving 0.4 inches free along the edge. Leave to leaven at room temperature for 90 minutes , then bake in a static oven preheated to 450 °F (230 °C) for 25 minutes. In the meantime, cut the mozzarella into slices or tear into pieces by hand. Remove the pizza from the oven .
Add the mozzarella , once more leaving the edge free . Place back in the oven for another 5 minutes or until the mozzarella has melted nicely and dried. Remove from the oven and serve your tall and soft tray-baked pizza .
Soft and tall tray-baked pizza can be stored for a day in the refrigerator. You can heat it up before serving.
As an alternative, you could freeze it after baking, or before adding the mozzarella.
Add salami and vegetables to enrich your pizza!


