name:
Ham stuffed shells (Conchiglioni ripieni di prosciutto)
ingredients:
Shell pasta: 17oz(480 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 12.7oz(360 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 18.7oz(530 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2oz(60 g)
Eggs: 1
Rosemary: to taste
Sage: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 4cups(1 l)
Butter: 1stick(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(100 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Combine an oversized pasta format (Conchiglioni) with a delectable filling, and success is guaranteed!
Next Sunday, instead of serving the usual lasagna , give our Ham Stuffed Shells a try. This rich stuffed pasta dish has all the makings of a holiday feast: creamy béchamel enveloping the conchiglioni, a tantalizing filling, and an irresistible gratin topping. You won't be able to resist this delicacy!
To make the stuffed ham conchiglioni, first prepare the béchamel sauce: heat the milk in a saucepan; separately, melt the stick of butter over low heat , then turn off the heat and add 1 cup of flour, stirring with a whisk . Place the mixture back on low heat and stir until it becomes golden. Flavor the milk with nutmeg and a pinch of salt, then gradually pour the hot milk into the butter and flour mixture , stirring vigorously with the whisk.
Cook for 5-6 minutes over low heat until the sauce thickens and set aside. Prepare the filling: cut the ham into irregular strips . Pour the ricotta into a blender .
Add the prosciutto cotto , the herbs , and the egg as well.
Salt, pepper , and blend everything until you achieve a creamy consistency . Transfer the mixture into a disposable pastry bag .
Now, place a pot filled with salted water on the heat and bring it to a boil. Cook the conchiglioni for half of the time indicated on the package , then drain them onto a tray , drizzle with a bit of oil to prevent sticking , and let them cool down.
At the bottom of a large baking dish, spacious enough to accommodate all the conchiglioni, pour a generous layer of béchamel sauce . Fill each conchiglione one by one with the ham and ricotta mixture and place them inside the baking dish .
Enhance the assembly by adding the remaining béchamel sauce between each conchiglione, sprinkle with grated Grana cheese , and season with pepper to taste . Bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F (200°C) for 20 minutes, then switch to the grill mode for an additional 5 minutes. Once fully cooked, remove the stuffed ham conchiglioni from the oven and serve them piping hot .
Ham Stuffed Shells can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days; it's advisable not to freeze them.
As an alternative to béchamel, you can use tomato puree (or tomato sauce).

