name:
Red Lentil Vegan Burger
ingredients:
Peeled red lentils: 5.3oz(150 g)- about 2/3 cup
Kombu seaweed: 0.28oz(8 g)
Fresh scallion: 1.4oz(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Curry: ½tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole grain bread: 1.8oz(50 g)- stale
Chives: 0.2oz(5 g)
Avocado: 4.2oz(120 g)- ripe
Lemon juice: 0.3oz(8 g)- about 1 1/2 tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Garlic: ½clove
Zucchini: 1.7oz(50 g)
Eggplant: 1.4oz(40 g)
Tomatoes: 1.7oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Basil: 4leaves
Cereal grain buns: 4

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the resting time for the dough and the burgers

instructions:
For decades, it has been one of the symbols of American pop culture, associated with drive-ins and fast food. In reality, it comes from a completely different part of the world, the steppes of Mongolia, where the fearsome warriors of Genghis Khan used it as a way to eat without even getting off their horses. We're talking about the hamburger! It has endured entire eras, emerging unscathed and even earning the title of slow food, evolving into increasingly gourmet versions.
The version we're presenting this time, however, is 'good' in every sense. No meat or animal products, no industrial sauces, but rather peaceful lentils, avocado, whole-grain bread, and seasonal vegetables that play a cheerful and flavorful game of colors and textures. Maybe it wouldn't have suited Genghis Khan, but we're confident you'll love it: introducing the vegan red lentil burger!
To prepare the vegan red lentil burgers, place the lentils in a pot , cover them with water about twice their volume, and add a small piece of kombu seaweed . Cook for the time indicated on the package (about 20 minutes), remembering to add salt only towards the end of cooking to prevent the lentils from becoming too firm.
Once cooked, drain the lentils without squeezing them . Cut the scallion into very thin slices , heat a drizzle of oil in a large pan
and gently sauté the scallion . When it becomes almost transparent, add the lentils to the pan and sauté them for a few minutes to enhance their flavor. Add the curry
and pepper , and set aside. Cut the stale bread into small pieces . In a large bowl, combine the lentils and bread and mix well to fully soften the bread, using a spoon or even your hands.
When the bread is absorbed, add the chopped chives . Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate the mixture to firm up for at least an hour . In the meantime, prepare the other ingredients for the vegan burgers. Wash the zucchini and cut them lengthwise into slices about 2-3 mm thick ,
and do the same with the eggplant . Heat the grill and sear the zucchini and eggplant on both sides until they have grill marks.
Also, wash the tomato and slice it . Season the vegetables with a drizzle of oil and a pinch of salt, and set them aside. Now, let's work on the sauce: peel the avocado, remove the pit, and dice the flesh . Squeeze the lemon juice ,
and place both the avocado and lemon juice in the blender , along with the oil , salt, and garlic, crushed with a garlic press .
Blend until you get a smooth sauce , and set it aside. After the resting time, divide the lentil-based mixture into 4 balls, each about 90g, and flatten them in your hands to give them the classic hamburger shape , using a cookie cutter of the same diameter as the buns if you want a more even result. Then, return the burgers to the refrigerator to firm up for half an hour. After this time, brown the lentil burgers in a non-stick skillet with a drizzle of oil for 3-4 minutes, turning them halfway through cooking : they should form a light crust.
When the burgers are cooked, you have everything you need to assemble your vegan burgers. Cut the buns in half , spread the avocado sauce on all the inner sides, and place a burger, a slice of tomato , and a slice of eggplant on the bottom half, stacking them on top of each other.
Finally, add the zucchini and a basil leaf . Then, close with the top half of the bun so that the sauce-coated side is always in contact with the filling . Proceed in the same way with all the burgers and heat them for 5 minutes in a preheated static oven at 200°C (390°F) to make the bread crispy. Your vegan red lentil burgers are ready to enjoy!
Red lentil vegan burgers should be consumed immediately. However, you can store the raw lentil patties in the fridge, covered, for 2-3 days before cooking them. You can also freeze them if you used only fresh, non-thawed ingredients. The avocado sauce can be refrigerated, covered, for 1-2 days, as well as the grilled vegetables.

