name:
Lentil Loaf with Mustard Glaze
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8oz(230 g)- rectangular sheets
Lentils: 3 ½(100 g)- from Colfiorito or small ones (no soaking needed)
Red potatoes: 8.8oz(250 g)
Spinach: 8.8oz(250 g)
Smoked scamorza cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 7tbsp(40 g)- grated
Walnut kernels: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Shallot: 1- small
Dijon mustard: - strong
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Rosemary: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
Who says that lentils on New Year's Eve have to always be paired with cotechino? We've decided to challenge Italian tradition with new combinations to create an all-vegetarian New Year's main dish: the Lentil Loaf with Mustard Glaze! A soft mix of potatoes and lentils wrapped in a fragrant golden puff pastry that hides a melting heart of spinach and scamorza cheese... you've never seen a meatloaf in crust this appetizing, especially with the bold touch of mustard! We bet none of your guests will be able to resist a slice of Lentil Loaf with Mustard Glaze!
To make the Lentil Loaf with Mustard Glaze , first rinse the lentils and pour them into a pot filled with unsalted cold water along with the bay leaves . Boil the lentils for 30 minutes from when they start boiling, then drain and set aside. In the meantime, also boil the whole red potatoes with their skins, starting with cold water, for about 30-40 minutes from boiling depending on their size . Chop the shallot and sauté it in a pan with a drizzle of oil .
Add the spinach , salt and pepper . Once the spinach has wilted , drain any excess liquid and let it cool down.
In the meantime, grate the scamorza with a coarse grater and roughly chop the walnuts . When the potatoes are cooked, mash them in a bowl with a potato masher , then add the lentils .
Combine the grated Grana Padano DPO , nutmeg , and chopped rosemary .
Also add the chopped walnuts and half of the grated scamorza cheese , then season with salt, pepper, and a drizzle of oil. Mix first with a spatula and then with your hands to get a fairly firm mixture, similar to meatball consistency .
Now you're ready to assemble the meatloaf. Roll out the puff pastry on a parchment paper sheet, with the long side facing you. Spread the lentil and potato mixture in the middle, being careful not to press it too much onto the pastry . Gently flatten it along the central strip and distribute the spinach , then add the remaining grated mozzarella cheese .
Shape the mixture to cover the filling and form a meatloaf . Use a knife to cut strips along the right edge of the dough to create fringes about 1/2 inch wide . Now, cover the meatloaf with the left edge of the dough .
Overlap the fringes on the right side, slightly crossing them . Shape the meatloaf into a crust using your hands to give it as regular a shape as possible , and transfer it to a baking dish. In a small bowl, mix the mustard with some extra virgin olive oil .
Brush the pastry generously with mustard glaze . Add a sprig of rosemary and a grind of pepper, and bake in a preheated static oven at 190°C (375°F) for about 30-35 minutes. After 20-25 minutes, check that it's not getting too dark on the surface; if it is, cover it with aluminum foil. Remove from the oven and let your mustard-glazed lentil meatloaf cool slightly before serving !
The Lentil Loaf with Mustard Glaze can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can substitute the scamorza with another melting cheese like provolone or caciocavallo!
Keep in mind that the lentil meatloaf may tend to lose its shape a bit during cooking.

