name:
Eggs Benedict with Truffle and Tomino Cheese Fondue
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 10.6oz(300 g)
Clarified butter: to taste
Eggs: 2- organic
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadsticks: 3.5oz(100 g)
Spinach: 5.3oz(150 g)
Garlic: 1
Butter: 0.35oz(10 g)
Eggs: 2
White wine vinegar: 2tbsp
Coarse salt: to taste
Tomini cheese: 1
Fresh liquid cream: to taste
Black truffle: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 2
Cost: High

instructions:
Energy, passion, flavors, and aromas all come together in this perfect dish for a romantic brunch for two: Eggs Benedict with truffle and Tomino cheese fondue. Whether you're looking to make a special meal or just want to prepare a recipe filled with love, surprise your significant other with a sumptuous breakfast-lunch. Consider enjoying it in bed for a relaxed experience, savoring a crunchy and unique potato croquette, flavorful spinach, and a delicious poached egg enriched with irresistible Tomino cheese fondue. This small form of cheese has already been appreciated in baked dishes or puff pastry. Adding a touch of seduction, tiny truffle flakes will give your Eggs Benedict with truffle and Tomino cheese fondue an aphrodisiac allure!
To prepare Eggs Benedict with truffle and Tomino cheese fondue, start by washing the potatoes under running water to remove any soil residues. Then place them in a pot, cover with water , and cook them (it will take about 30 minutes from the time they start boiling). Prick them with the tines of a fork to check if they are cooked. While the potatoes are cooking, thoroughly wash and dry the spinach. Then in a large skillet, heat butter and 1 peeled whole garlic clove. When the butter is melted, you can add the spinach , stirring occasionally
until they're wilted: it will take just a few minutes. Once ready, remove the garlic and set it aside. Then, place the breadsticks on a clean, dry kitchen towel, fold the towel over them, and crumble the breadsticks by pressing and banging them on the countertop ,
until you get coarse crumbs . In another small bowl, pour the eggs and lightly beat them. Set aside; now that the potatoes are cooked, while still warm, mash them (8-9) (if you don't have a potato masher, peel them and use a food mill or a fork).
Salt and pepper the potatoes ; work the potatoes with a spatula , then take a 4-inch square ring mold and place half the amount of puree inside it ,
compact well and then unmold . Repeat the process with the other half. Dip the squares first in the egg on both sides , then in the crushed breadsticks, making sure they adhere well on all sides .
Once finished , set the squares aside. Move on to preparing the poached eggs. In another pan, pour water, leaving about 1.5-2 inches from the top. Add 1 tablespoon of white wine vinegar . Turn the heat to medium and add coarse salt .
Turn on the heat, warm everything up, and whisk vigorously , create a whirlpool into which you should pour the egg . Use a slotted spoon to ensure the white completely covers the yolk; it will take about 4-5 minutes to cook. Then gently drain the egg and proceed with the other. Keep the poached eggs aside.
In a large pan, heat the clarified butter , and once melted, you should have about 0.6 inches of liquid in the pan. When it's hot, add the croquette and fry it on both sides: it will take just 3-4 minutes in total (23-24).
Remove the excess oil by placing the golden croquette on a paper towel . Proceed the same way with the other one. Now it's time to make the Tomino cheese fondue: remove the outer rind of the Tomino , and cut the soft part into cubes ,
then, pour the cubes into an already hot pan and let them melt over low heat; to aid in the melting and create a delicious cream, add the cream , and stir with a whisk until you get a creamy consistency . Place on a serving dish a potato croquette, half a portion of spinach ,
poached egg and Tomino cheese fondue . Finish with truffle slices . Follow the same steps to complete. Your Eggs Benedict with truffle and Tomino cheese fondue are ready to be served for your love-filled brunch!
Poached eggs should only be kept for as long as it takes to finish the preparation. They should not be stored in the fridge or freezer.
The spinach can be prepared in advance and kept in the fridge, to be warmed before assembling the dish.
It's preferable to boil the potatoes and make the square while they are still hot. It's recommended to make the potato croquette and eat it while warm.
Also, the Tomino cheese fondue should be made and served immediately.
You can enhance the flavor of the black truffle by briefly toasting it in a pan with a small pat of butter before using it as a garnish. If you prefer, you can omit the garlic in the preparation of the spinach.

