name:
Baked Ziti (clean out the fridge recipe)
ingredients:
Salami: 7oz(200 g)
Sausage: 11oz(400 g)
Onions: 1
Garlic: 3cloves
Tomato purée: 3cups(700 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 14oz(400 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 14oz(400 g)
Ziti pasta: 17.5oz(500 g)
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Provola cheese: 10.5oz(300 g)
Basil: to taste
Type 00 flour: a few
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 2 hours of rest

instructions:
Discover the ultimate comfort food with our Easy Baked Ziti Recipe! Transform your leftover cheeses, cured meats, and sausage into a delightful Baked Ziti, a perfect example of creative, fridge-clearing home cooking. This recipe is not just a delicious way to repurpose pantry staples but also a guide to making a hearty, rustic Italian pasta dish. By adding rich tomato puree and versatile ziti pasta (or any pasta you have in your pantry), this dish becomes a perfect family dinner idea. Get ready to enjoy a homemade, Italian-style baked pasta with meatballs, an ideal solution for a satisfying meal using simple, everyday ingredients. Perfect for busy weeknights or a comforting weekend feast, this Baked Ziti recipe is a flavorful, easy-to-make culinary delight!
To prepare the baked ziti, peel and chop the onion , do the same with the garlic cloves , and cut the salami into cubes .
Cut the sausage , remove the casing, and form small meatballs with the meat . Then, roll the meatballs in flour .
Heat a generous amount of oil in a skillet and brown the meatballs , then add the onion .
Also add the salami and minced garlic . Then pour in the tomato puree , diluting it with a little water, just enough to rinse out the jar. Season with a bit of pepper and salt, as the salami will add savoriness to the sauce.
Cover with the lid and cook the sauce for about 30 minutes . Once cooked, set aside . Boil the broken ziti in salted boiling water, they should be very al dente .
Mix the ricotta with basil, salt, pepper, and oil . Cube the provola and mozzarella . Drain the ziti into a bowl, saving the pasta water, and pour in the sauce .
Combine a portion of the cubed cheeses , extend with pasta cooking water if it appears dry , and mix to flavor. Butter a baking dish, then pour in a first layer of pasta .
Season with Parmesan and a few dollops of ricotta . Continue with more pasta, then more ricotta, grated cheese, mozzarella, and basil leaves . Bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F for 20 minutes or until golden brown. Let rest for 15-20 minutes before serving the baked ziti .
Baked ziti can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days and will taste great even when reheated.
The recipe is designed to use up leftover ingredients: so feel free to vary it based on what you have available, for example, substituting mozzarella with scamorza or dairy cheeses, and salami with cubes of speck or bacon.

