name:
Winter Panzanella
ingredients:
Farro bread: 7oz(200 g)- spelt bread
Red cabbage: 5.3oz(150 g)
Mantuan pumpkin: 7.4oz(210 g)
Fennel: 6.3oz(180 g)
Red onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Balsamic vinegar: 1 ⅓tbsp(40 g)
Water: 1 ⅔tbsp(40 g)
Taggiasca olives: 1oz(30 g)
Chives: 4- strands
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 8 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Soaked bread bites flavored with red onions and tomatoes, all dressed up with excellent oil - that's how the classic Tuscan panzanella is made, a simple and tasty summer recipe so beloved it has inspired other tantalizing variations like a tartare or a sweet version. But why not enjoy it even in the colder season? That's how our winter panzanella recipe was born, a delightful challenge to tradition featuring the tastiest fruits of winter: pumpkin, crispy red cabbage, and fennel with its unmistakable aromatic notes. Winter panzanella is a delectable mix of flavors and textures waiting to be discovered, perfect to serve as an appetizer, letting your pantry inspire you. In a flash, it becomes a fridge-clearing, dinner-saving idea!
To make the winter panzanella, first clean and thinly slice the red onion . Also cut the red cabbage into thin strips, after removing the outer leaves and the central core , and proceed in the same way with the fennel .
Peel the pumpkin and cut it into small cubes (you should get about 150 g) . Tear the bread slices into pieces with your hands inside a large bowl . Moisten with water
and balsamic vinegar . Mix, cover with plastic wrap, and let it marinate. Meanwhile, continue with the preparation: heat a bit of oil in a pan and add the pumpkin . Sauté the pumpkin over high heat for about 3 minutes, it should be well browned .
Set aside the pumpkin and in the same pan, heat another drizzle of oil. This time, add the red cabbage and sauté it for 5 minutes . Then, take the soaked bread and add all the prepared ingredients: the onion ,
fennel , olives, making sure to pit them with a small knife , and finally add the pumpkin and the sautéed cabbage to the mix.

Flavored with stems of chives cut into small pieces , seasoned with oil , salt, and pepper to taste. Your winter panzanella is ready to be enjoyed !
Store the winter panzanella in the refrigerator and consume it within a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
Depending on the season, use your favorite type of vegetables: diced grilled zucchini, sautéed leeks, or a grating of fresh ginger. Enhance your panzanella with crispy speck cut into strips for a bolder flavor in the dish!

