name:
Italian Ricciarelli Cookies
ingredients:
Peeled almonds: 4cups(400 g)
Sugar: 2cups(380 g)
Powdered sugar: 0.8cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Egg whites: 2
Water: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Wafer paper: - 1 rectangle, 8 x 12 inches
Almond extract: 1tsp
Baking powder: ½tsp
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 12 hours of resting for the initial dough

instructions:
Discover the delight of Ricciarelli, the soft marzipan cookies perfect for sharing with friends and family as a festive holiday treat . Inspired by the traditional Ricciarelli from Siena, these cookies are lovingly crafted with almonds, sugar, and egg whites. After a 12-hour resting period and a gentle mix of all the ingredients, the dough is shaped into its characteristic diamond or 'rice grain' form.
Dusted with powdered sugar, these cookies are a splendid match for a glass of sweet wine, like Vin Santo, making them an exquisite end to any holiday meal. Pair them with cantucci and almond cookies for a truly indulgent dessert spread. They also make wonderful gifts, especially when combined with a selection of sweet treats from various Italian and international traditions, such as the Spanish polvorones, also made with almond flour!
Fill your kitchen with the unmistakable aroma of almonds with these sweet and delightful Ricciarelli cookies!
To prepare the Ricciarelli, start by finely chopping the almonds with 330 g (11.5 oz) of granulated sugar . Then transfer the mixture to a bowl and mix with a wooden spatula . In a small saucepan, pour the remaining 50 g (1.76 oz) of granulated sugar and water , turn on low heat and stir to dissolve the sugar.
You will need to turn off the stove when the sugar starts to coat the spoon . At this point, you can add it to the mixture . Then continue mixing with the wooden spatula .
Also add 50 g (1.76 oz) of sifted powdered sugar and flour , then pour in the baking powder as well . Continue mixing all the ingredients with a spatula .
The prepared dough should rest in the bowl at room temperature for at least 12 hours, covered with a damp cloth . After 12 hours, you can whip the egg whites using an electric mixer .
When they have turned white, gradually add the remaining 50 g (1.76 oz) of sifted powdered sugar and a teaspoon of bitter almond extract . Then take the dough you have allowed to rest and break it up with a wooden spatula .
Then pour in the whipped egg whites , mixing from the bottom up to blend them . Once they are incorporated, start kneading with your hands
and when the dough becomes more uniform , transfer it onto a surface dusted with powdered sugar . Then, work it until you achieve a soft and uniform dough. Next, form a small log and use a knife or another tool to cut pieces, each weighing about 25 grams .
With the tips of your fingers, you can shape the typical form of the Ricciarelli , then cut out the wafer using the Ricciarelli stencil and place it under each cookie . Arrange the Ricciarelli on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper
sprinkle them with sifted powdered sugar and bake in a preheated conventional oven for 10 minutes at 230°F. The Ricciarelli should be baked but still pale in color . Then, remove them from the oven and let them cool on a wire rack before serving !
Ricciarelli can be stored for 2-3 days in a tin box or in food-grade bags. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can omit the wafer paper; in this case, dust the baking tray with flour to prevent the ricciarelli from sticking to the bottom during baking.

