name:
Black-eyed pea and cabbage salad
ingredients:
Cabbage: 12.3oz(350 g)- (purple)
Lemon juice: ½
Fine salt: 1tbsp(20 g)
Sugar: 1tbsp(20 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Black eyed peas: 7oz(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 4.2oz(120 g)
Mandarin oranges: 3
Marjoram: - a few sprigs
Wildflower honey: 1tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.1oz(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note +12 hours to soak the beans (if not using precooked) and 2 hours to marinate the cabbage.

instructions:
We are usually accustomed to enjoying salads during the warm season: they are perfect one-dish meals, rich and colorful. We love them so much that we prefer to enjoy them all year round. When the cold starts knocking at our doors, we usually prepare this tasty black-eyed pea and cabbage salad. A complete dish, made with the finest and most nutritious ingredients: purple cabbage and black-eyed peas, a unique variety of legumes. Besides being delicious, this black-eyed pea and cabbage salad will introduce you to a combination that makes it even more special: the addition of mandarin orange segments! Black-eyed pea and cabbage salad is perfect for a special dinner or for preparing it leisurely in the evening to bring to the office the next day for a hearty and healthy lunch, with a dressing fit for true gourmets! Discover our recipe so you don't have to wait for summer to enjoy a good salad!
To prepare the b lack-eyed pea and cabbage salad , start by soaking the black-eyed peas. Then, place them in a container, cover with plenty of water, and let them soak for at least 12 hours . After the time has passed, drain and rinse them. Then, transfer them to a saucepan with plenty of water and bring to a boil . During cooking, you may need to skim off any substances that come to the surface. Allow them to simmer for about 25-30 minutes: they should be firm at the end of cooking (neither too crunchy nor too soft). Then, drain them ,
and let them cool in a bowl . Meanwhile, move on to the cabbage, slicing it into thin strips . Place it in a bowl along with the salt and sugar ,
a pinch of black pepper and the juice of 1/2 lemon . Mix well and cover with plastic wrap. Let it marinate in the refrigerator for about 2 hours ; this process will allow the cabbage to soften and sweeten in flavor. Then, cut the piece of Parmigiano and reduce it into coarse shavings .
pour into the pan over low heat, being careful not to melt them . They should simply become fragrant and 'sweated' on the surface (this step is to enhance the cheese's flavor). Set the shavings aside and peel the mandarins .
Transfer the cloves to a bowl, making sure to remove all the white parts , and finally, prepare the dressing. In a bowl, pour the honey and the oil . Whisk quickly, adding the salt, to create an emulsion .
Now that you have everything ready, proceed with the assembly. Drain the cabbage from the marinade and rinse it , place it in a bowl along with the black-eyed peas , mandarin segments, and the freshly picked marjoram leaves .
Dress with the honey emulsion . Mix everything well and season with salt and pepper to taste. Finally, serve your purple cabbage coleslaw with Parmesan shavings , and enjoy your meal !
Store b lack-eyed pea and cabbage salad in the refrigerator for no more than 3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can substitute black-eyed peas with cannellini beans or chickpeas (even pre-cooked for convenience). Feel free to enhance your purple cabbage salad with additional ingredients of your choice. We recommend lemon zest for added freshness or lightly crushed pink peppercorns for color and aroma! In the honey emulsion, add mandarin juice as well for a delightful tang!

