name:
Radicchio Stuffed Ravioli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(220 g)
Eggs: 4.1oz(115 g)- (about 2 medium)
Radicchio: 7.8oz(220 g)
Brigante pasta: 7oz(200 g)
Leeks: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Tomato purée: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Basil: 4leaves
Shallot: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Making fresh pasta at home is truly satisfying: there are many shapes you can create after mixing eggs and flour together. Today we opted for stuffed fresh pasta, suggesting you make radicchio stuffed ravioli. The thin egg pasta sheet holds a truly tasty mix of radicchio and Brigante cheese that pairs perfectly with a quick tomato and basil sauce. The perfect dish for Sunday lunch or a special dinner, you can also prepare the ravioli in advance and freeze them so they're ready to cook when needed. As an alternative to the tomato sauce , you can enjoy these radicchio stuffed ravioli with a cheese fondue, pan-fried with butter and sage... many variations for an always delicious first course.
To make the radicchio stuffed ravioli, start with the fresh pasta: on a work surface or in a bowl, pour the flour, create a well in the center, and pour in the eggs. Initially mix with a fork , then knead until it becomes homogeneous and elastic. Wrap with plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature for about half an hour.
In the meantime, prepare the sauce for the seasoning: clean and chop the shallot . Toss it in a pan with a drizzle of oil and stir often while sautéing for a few moments . Pour in the tomato passata , also adding a bit of water.
Salt, pepper, and cook over low heat with a lid for about 30 minutes. Once ready, turn off the heat and add some basil leaves . Move on to the ravioli filling: wash and clean the radicchio (you can remove the tougher parts of the rib and get 5 oz total), then chop it finely .
Remove the ends of the leek, remove the first and second layer, then cut it into thin rings . In a pan, slightly heat a drizzle of oil, then add the leek and sauté for a few minutes, stirring often. At this point, add the radicchio and stir again.
Salt and pepper to taste and let it wilt for a few minutes . Then transfer everything to a bowl to let it cool slightly .
In the meantime, grate the Brigante cheese with a coarse grater and add it to the now cooled radicchio . Take the fresh pasta and divide the dough ball in two .
With a rolling pin, roll out the two portions of dough to obtain a rectangular sheet about 0.04 inches thick (if using the pasta machine, penultimate setting). Lay one of the sheets on the work surface and fill it with small mounds of radicchio and cheese filling, trying to space them 1 to 1.5 inches apart . Brush with water the parts of the fresh pasta where there is no filling , to make the other sheet adhere.
Place the second sheet on top and press well between each mound of filling to adhere and remove air . Use a pasta cutter to cut out the ravioli .
Lay them one by one on a clean, dry cloth . Bring a large pot of water to a boil, and when it's boiling, salt it, then cook the ravioli for 2-3 minutes . You can cook a few at a time. Then drain them
and pour them into the sauce . Stir gently and serve the radicchio stuffed ravioli piping hot .
You can freeze the raw ravioli for about 1 month in the freezer.
The cooked ravioli should be consumed immediately or can be stored in the fridge in an airtight container for 1 day.

You can dress the radicchio stuffed ravioli with butter and sage or with a cheese fondue.
You can use another cheese like a mildly aged sheep cheese for the filling.

