name:
Beef fillet with porcini mushrooms and truffle
ingredients:
Porcini mushrooms: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Black truffles: 0.3oz(8 g)
Beef filet: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (4 fillets)
Parsley: 0.5oz(15 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 5tbsp
Lamb's lettuce: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The beef fillet with porcini mushrooms and truffle is an exquisite main course, perfect for impressing guests, perhaps following a creamy truffle risotto or fettuccine as a first course! This beef fillet with porcini and truffle is an autumnal delight, ready in just minutes, and allows you to serve a gourmet dish. In this recipe, the beef fillet is elevated by the addition of porcini mushrooms, while the truffle shavings lend a truly distinctive flavor and aroma to the preparation.
To prepare the filet with porcini and truffle, thoroughly clean the porcini mushrooms, then slice them horizontally . In a non-stick skillet, heat 3 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil and sauté two crushed garlic cloves until golden , then add the porcini mushrooms and cook them over medium heat for 7-8 minutes .
Season with salt and pepper ; as soon as the mushrooms have softened, add the chopped parsley , mix well, and turn off the heat. Finally, grate a few truffle shavings ,
cover everything with a lid and set it aside . Now, focus on the meat: tie kitchen twine around each beef fillet to maintain its shape during cooking , then drizzle a bit of oil into a non-stick skillet ,
where you'll sear the meat . The fillets should cook for about 5 minutes on each side over high heat (use tongs or a fork to turn them) . Season the fillets with a pinch of salt around halfway through cooking. When the meat is done, garnish with a sprinkle of truffle .
Now that the fillets are ready , start plating: take a serving platter and place some pre-washed and trimmed watercress on it, then lay the fillets on top and arrange the porcini mushrooms on the side . Finish it all with a generous grating of truffle : your fillet with porcini and truffle is ready to be served at the table!
We recommend consuming the filet with porcini and truffle immediately, but if you wish, you can store it for up to one day, sealed in an airtight container and placed in the refrigerator.
If desired, you can deglaze the fillets and/or mushrooms with white wine during cooking.
If you don't prefer your meat rare, you can extend the cooking time for the fillets.

