name:
Cotechino with mashed potatoes
ingredients:
Cotechino: 1.1lbs(500 g)- fresh
Celery: 2stalks
Yellow onions: 1
Carrots: 2
Cluster tomatoes: 1- medium size
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Cloves: 3
Black pepper: to taste
Juniper berries: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Whole milk: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Yellow onions: ½
Rosemary: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 7oz(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
In Italy, it's not New Year's without cotechino! There's not just one way to serve it, such as the typical holiday dish: Cotechino with lentils ! Over the years, we have proposed various recipes with cotechino including in crust , mille-feuille, or as a ragù. We couldn't miss out on cotechino with mashed potatoes, a dish decidedly different from the usual to beautifully conclude your New Year's Eve dinner or as the main course on January 1st, if you still have room! In this recipe, pre-cooked cotechino is used, not to be confused with the already cooked type that only needs warming: an extra attention and delicacy to savor the full taste of this holiday sausage! While the cotechino is cooking, you can prepare the kale chips in the oven, a super touch for a special dish!
Discover how to enrich your holiday buffet!
To prepare the cotechino with mashed potatoes, roughly chop the celery and carrots, then halve the onion and tomato. Wrap the cotechino in a linen cloth, then submerge it in water with all the vegetables , juniper berries, peppercorns, cloves, and bay leaves. Turn the heat to medium-high to bring it to a boil, then lower the heat and cook for at least 2-3 hours. Once ready, turn off the heat and leave the cotechino to soak for another 20 minutes in the same cooking broth. While the cotechino is cooking, you can prepare the kale chips. Cut off the tough stem part , rinse the leaves. Put them in a bowl and season with salt, pepper, and oil .
Transfer to a baking sheet with parchment paper and cook in a preheated convection oven at 430°F (220°C), for 15-20 minutes . You can also prepare the potato cream. Wash and then boil the potatoes for about 30-40 minutes depending on their size ; remember to calculate the time from when the water starts to boil.
When the potatoes are tender to the fork test, drain them and mash them while they are very hot . Mince the rosemary and chop half an onion . In a saucepan, pour a drizzle of oil, sauté the onion and rosemary over low heat for a few minutes .
Combine the mashed potatoes. Immediately moisten with the milk and mix for a few moments until it has a creamy consistency ; adjust salt and pepper to taste .
Remove the casing from the cotechino , slice it , and arrange each serving plate with potato cream on the bottom, cotechino, and kale chips .
We recommend consuming it immediately.
The kale chips can be stored for 1 day.
The potato cream can be kept for 1 day in the refrigerator in an airtight container.
The cotechino can be kept for 1-2 days, in the fridge in an airtight container.
We used a pre-cooked cotechino. In stores, you can also find cotechini that are already cooked and just need a few minutes of boiling. It's better to use fresh or pre-cooked cotechino in this case to enhance the flavor with the cooking broth. We recommend that you follow the cooking time instructions indicated on the packaging.
If you love chili pepper, use fresh chili, deseeded and cut into strips. You can add it at the time of plating.
If some of the ingredients in the cotechino cooking broth are not to your liking, you can substitute or omit them as you prefer.
To further enrich the dish, toast some roughly chopped hazelnuts in a pan and add them at the time of plating.
If you want to make the dish a bit lighter, cook the potato puree with vegetable broth instead of milk.

