name:
Caviar canapés
ingredients:
Sandwich bread: 3.5oz(100 g)
Caviar: 2.5oz(70 g)
Smoked Salmon: 3.5oz(100 g)
Cream cheese: 9oz(250 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Dill: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Makes: 14 pieces
Cost: Very high

instructions:
Caviar Canapés are an exquisite Christmas appetizer, quick and easy to prepare, and require no cooking. Black caviar is typically obtained from various sturgeon species (such as Beluga, Oscietra, Sevruga), and its color ranges from dark gray to black. We thought of using it to create classic finger foods reserved for special occasions like Christmas lunch or Christmas Eve dinner. They will also be perfect for celebrating New Year's, adding an elegant and delicious touch to your New Year's Eve dinner, perhaps a seafood-based menu!
These special canapés burst with flavors and are a true delight for the palate, thanks to the choice of high-quality ingredients that blend perfectly to create an elegant and tantalizing dish. The contrast between the creaminess of the fresh cheese spread, the rich and smoky flavor of the salmon, and the touch of luxury from the caviar makes them an ideal choice to impress your guests and make your Christmas menu even more memorable!
Don't miss out on these delightful Christmas recipes :
To prepare the caviar canapés, cut the sandwich bread into smaller, regular pieces ; you can make 14 pieces from it. Arrange them on a serving tray .
In a bowl, combine the cream cheese , season to taste with salt, olive oil , and pepper . Mix everything together.
Finally, add dill leaves and mix again before transferring it to a pastry bag fitted with a star tip .
Dress each bread rectangle with the flavored cheese , then cut the smoked salmon into small pieces , and place it on each tartine .
Dress them up with black caviar and a few more sprigs of dill . The caviar canapés are ready to be served .
Enjoy the caviar canapés immediately, or you can prepare them a few hours in advance and store them in the refrigerator.
As an alternative to cream cheese, you can use butter flakes.

