name:
Beef Wellington
ingredients:
Beef tenderloin: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Puff pastry: - 1 sheet
Prosciutto crudo: 3.2oz(90 g)
Mustard: to taste
Champignon mushrooms: 10.6oz(300 g)
Parsley: to taste
Egg yolks: 2

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High
Note più i tempi di riposo (2 ore e mezza)

instructions:
Beef Wellington, a classic entrée both delicious and show-stopping, is ideal for impressing your guests during the holidays, like Christmas dinner. In our recipe, the beef tenderloin is coated with mustard, enriched with a chopped mixture of champignon mushrooms, and then wrapped in prosciutto. Puff pastry becomes a crispy, golden shell that makes the beef look incredibly succulent. You can decorate the dish using pastry scraps or by making incisions with a sharp knife, without piercing the pastry too much. Once cooked, it's very important to let the meat rest; this allows the juices to redistribute, ensuring you get perfect slices!
Explore more delightful recipes to enhance your holiday menu and dazzle your guests:
To prepare the beef Wellington, first take the tenderloin and clean it from the most evident white parts using a sharp knife . Salt it , pepper it, and wrap it tightly in plastic wrap .
Tighten the ends well and tie them , so as to give the fillet a round shape. Place it on a tray and transfer it to the refrigerator to firm up for 2 hours. This step is to flavor the meat and maintain its shape. In the meantime, take care of the mushrooms: remove the base and any soil residues with a small knife .
Clean them with a damp cloth and finely chop both the stems and the head with a knife. Transfer them to a bowl .

Finely chop the parsley and set it aside. Heat a drizzle of oil in a large skillet, add the mushrooms and cook them for a few minutes, until all the water has evaporated. Then turn off the heat, season with salt, pepper, and add the parsley .
Set aside the cooked mushrooms and let them cool . After two hours, remove the wrap from the fillet. Heat a swirl of oil in a large pan and as soon as it's hot, transfer the fillet inside . Brown it well on all sides, turning it with tongs or two wooden spoons, being careful not to pierce it .
Remember to also seal the ends, placing the fillet vertically on the pan . Then transfer it to a rack and let it cool down. Once it has cooled, brush the entire surface with mustard .
Lay out two or three sheets of plastic wrap on a flat surface and arrange the slices of ham slightly overlapping , to create a surface large enough to completely wrap the filet. Now spread the cooled mushrooms over the ham, forming a rectangle , and place the filet in the center .
Lifting the film, roll up the fillet . Tighten the ends well, removing all the air, to give a uniform shape, creating a candy . Set aside and meanwhile unroll the puff pastry on a surface and brush it with the previously beaten yolks .
Remove the film and place the fillet on the pastry and roll it up, so as to completely wrap it . Seal the edges well, letting out all the air inside . Remove the excess dough and round the ends, pressing the dough with your hands.
Brush the surface again with the egg yolk . Transfer to a baking tray and bake in a fan oven at 180°C (355°F) for 20 minutes, then increase the temperature to 190°C (375°F) and bake for another 10 minutes. We recommend using a probe thermometer to measure the internal temperature of the meat, as this is the only way to ensure the desired level of doneness. The ideal final temperature is between 52°C and 55°C (126°F and 131°F). Remove the fillet from the oven and let it rest for about 30 minutes, allowing the juices to redistribute within the meat. At this point, slice and serve your Wellington-style fillet!
We recommend storing the beef Wellington in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
It is best to cook the beef Wellington as soon as it is ready, otherwise the juices from the meat may seep out, moistening the pastry.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer to make a mushroom cream, instead of chopping the mushrooms, slice them, cook them, and then blend them with an immersion blender.
To speed up the mushroom chopping process, you can use a food processor, pulsing it for a few seconds.
Instead of mushrooms, you can use artichokes, making a cream in this case.
Instead of puff pastry, you can use shortcrust pastry.

