name:
Cauliflower and sausage pasta bake
ingredients:
Sedanini Rigati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Cauliflower: (700 g)
Sausage: 11oz(300 g)
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
All-purpose flour: 1 ¼cup(60 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(50 g)
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Let's face it, baked pasta is always delicious... and that's why it can be a way to make even less favored ingredients appealing. After the success of Sausage and broccoli baked pasta , here is the baked pasta with cauliflower and sausage! A white version seasoned with a special béchamel sauce, flavored with the cooking water of the cauliflower. Moreover, we have enriched the pasta with bits of sausage and melting buffalo mozzarella, which adds a distinctive smoky note. Ideal for freezing or preparing in advance, the baked pasta with cauliflower and sausage might turn out to be an unexpected main course and a highly requested dinner saver!
If you like baked pasta, you might love there other recipes too:
To make baked pasta with cauliflower and sausage, first clean the cauliflower and cut into small florets . Boil a pot of salted water and cook the cauliflower for about ten minutes, or until the florets are slightly tender .
Meanwhile, remove the casing from the sausage and cut it into chunks of about 3/4 inch . Drain the cauliflower in a bowl and save the cooking water for the béchamel sauce . Set aside some florets and mash the rest with a fork .
In a pan, fry the garlic clove with a little oil, then add the sausage and brown briefly, just long enough to sear it . Remove the garlic and take out the sausage, leaving the cooking juices in the pan .
In the same pan, add the reserved cauliflower florets and sauté them quickly . Adjust for salt if necessary, then set aside. For the béchamel: melt the butter in a saucepan, then add all the flour at once .
Stir with a whisk to make a roux , then add about 26 oz of the cauliflower cooking water and continue stirring until you get a smooth and thick sauce .
Pour the béchamel into the bowl with the mashed cauliflower, saving some for later , and mix well. Season with nutmeg. Meanwhile, boil a pot of salted water and cook the pasta for 2-3 minutes less than the package directions . Drain the pasta into the bowl with the cauliflower cream and mix.
Add the browned sausage, reserving a few pieces , and thyme leaves , then transfer everything into a baking dish .
Top with the remaining béchamel , reserved sausage , and sautéed cauliflower .
Finally, tear the smoked buffalo mozzarella by hand and sprinkle with black pepper. Gratinate in a preheated 450°F (230°C) oven for about 15 minutes, placing the dish on the top rack . Your baked pasta with cauliflower and sausage is ready to be served hot !
Baked pasta with cauliflower and sausage can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
If you wish to prepare it in advance and cook it later, you can store it in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
You can freeze it after cooking.
If you prefer a "red" version, you can add a tablespoon of tomato paste to the béchamel sauce, along with the cauliflower cooking water.
You can replace the thyme with marjoram or rosemary; in the latter case, roughly chopped hazelnuts would also be a great addition!

