name:
Onion and potato frittata
ingredients:
Eggs: 8- (medium)
Potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Red onions: 9oz(250 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: ⅓cup(50 g)- grated
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Economical, easy, and only uses one pan: we're talking about the frittata , and in this recipe, the potato and onion frittata! A masterpiece of simplicity and flavor, soft and tasty, perfect as a main course. It will be very easy to prepare with yellow potatoes and red or golden onions, as you prefer, all in one pan. A flavor explosion that wins over the heart of anyone who tastes it, great for a quick dinner or even to prepare a lunchbox to take to the office. The perfect side dish? We can suggest pan-cooked fennel or spinach for the winter or a nice arugula salad if you make it in the spring!
Discover other super appetizing frittata recipes themed with potatoes or onions:
To make the onion and potato frittata, first peel the potatoes and cut them into not too large pieces . Then clean the red onions.
Thinly slice the onions . In a pan, first sauté the onion with a swirl of olive oil for 5 minutes over medium heat, stirring often. Then add the potatoes and cook until they are slightly colored, continuing to stir.
Salt to taste , cover with a lid , and cook for about 20 minutes, remembering to turn occasionally. They should be soft and well browned. In a bowl, pour the eggs and grated Grana Padano .
Season with thyme , salt, and pepper to taste, then mix everything together . Pour the egg mixture over the cooked potatoes and onions .
Cook for about ten minutes with the lid on over medium-low heat, rounding out the shape as needed with a spatula. When it's time to turn the frittata (you can try lifting the base with the spatula to check the cooking) , use a plate to help flip it .
Slide the uncooked side back into the pan . Cook for a couple of minutes without the lid, and the frittata is ready . If you like, you can garnish with a few more thyme leaves before serving your hot onion and potato frittata!
It is recommended to consume the potato and onion frittata as soon as it's ready.
It can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day, perhaps already portioned, and heated as needed.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can use yellow onions instead of red ones.

