name:
Brussels sprouts with bacon
ingredients:
Brussels sprouts: 1lb(450 g)
Bacon: 6slices- smoked
Pecans: ¼cup(25 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1oz(28 g)
Oregano: 1tbsp
Dried chili pepper: ½tsp- powder
Chicken broth: ½cup(120 ml)
Maple syrup: 1tbsp
Apple cider vinegar: 1tbsp
Soy sauce: 1tbsp
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Pepper: to taste

info:
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Brussels sprouts with bacon is a delicious side dish for your holiday table. It’s easy and fast to make. The secret is to render the bacon fat so you can toss the Brussels sprout in it for that extra flavor. Brussels sprouts like to be charred so when you get them into the pan make sure the pan is hot and start cooking it on the flat side and turn them only when you get a nice golden-brown sear.
Looking for more side dishes? Check out these recipes:

In a large skillet cook the smoked bacon on medium heat until fat has rendered, and bacon is crispy.
Wash the Brussels sprouts, trim a bit of the bottom which usually gets dry, cut in half and place in a large bowl.
Drizzle with one tablespoon of olive oil, oregano, chili powder, and season with salt and pepper.
Remove the bacon from the pan and add the Brussels sprouts, on high heat, cooking it on the flat side first. Cook for 4-5 minutes.
Check for a nice golden-brown color then toss it around the pan, add the chicken stock and scrape the bottom of the pan to get all the flavors from the caramelization. Cook for 5 more minutes.
When checking for doneness you want the Brussels sprouts to be soft on the outside, but still crunchy in the middle.
On a separate bowl mix the maple syrup, soy sauce and apple cider vinegar and toss on the Brussels sprouts.
Put the pecans in a zip-lock bag and lightly crush.
Roughly chop the bacon.
Slice the cheese with a vegetable peeler.
Serve the Brussels sprouts in a large bowl topped with the bacon, the crushed nuts and the shaved Pecorino cheese.
Brussels sprouts with bacon can be stored in the fridge covered with plastic wrap for a couple of days.
If you are preparing the components in advance, it is better to place the bacon in an airtight container outside the fridge to keep it crispy.
You could use pancetta or guanciale instead of smoked bacon and feel free to use your favorite nuts.
Pecorino’s sharp flavor works great with this preparation, but of course you could use Parmigiano.
This exact recipe could be also used to make grilled carrots.
If you like Brussels sprouts, you can dress them with this garlic dip !

