name:
Meatballs
ingredients:
Beef: 12.3oz(350 g)- ground
Pork: 5.3oz(150 g)- ground
Breadcrumbs: ⅔cup(60 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ¾cup(80 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: 1sprig
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 32 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus the mixture's resting time of about 30 minutes

instructions:
Meatballs are a simple recipe to whip up as a main dish, perfect for dinner! These tender bites of ground meat flavored with cheese, egg, and parsley are a must-have for any festive banquet or a family Sunday lunch. In this version, we suggest pan-frying them, but their versatility allows for various other enticing cooking methods: baked meatballs, fried meatballs, meatballs in white sauce, meatballs in tomato sauce, or even hunter-style meatballs, just to name a few! Serve them hot with mashed potatoes or a fresh salad... no one can resist these delicious meatballs!
Discover how many recipes with meatballs you can create:
Chicken meatballs
To prepare the meatballs, in a bowl combine the ground beef and pork , the egg , blended fresh bread crumbs, and chopped parsley .

Season with salt and pepper and thoroughly mix all the ingredients, kneading vigorously to achieve a homogeneous mixture. Let the mixture rest for 30 minutes covered in the fridge. After resting, take the mixture out of the fridge, and with damp hands, take 25 g of the mixture and roll it between your hands to form a round shape. The first meatball is ready .
As you shape them, place them on a tray . Heat about an inch of oil in a non-stick pan . The amount of oil should reach halfway up the meatball. When the oil is hot, carefully add the meatballs .
Brown the meatballs well on all sides, which will take about 6-7 minutes . At this point, cover with a lid and cook for another 3 minutes, so they cook through to the center. The meatballs are now ready .
You can store the meatballs in the refrigerator for a couple of days, either in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap. If you have used only fresh ingredients, you can also freeze them in the same way, after ensuring they have cooled down completely.
You can keep the uncooked meatball mixture in the refrigerator for up to 24 hours. You can also freeze the formed but uncooked meatballs.
You can flavor the mixture with chopped fresh chili pepper, your favorite herbs and spices, or substitute Parmesan cheese with pecorino.
If you like, you can also add a grated clove of garlic to the mixture.
You can also cook the meatballs in abundant seed oil.

