name:
Lasagna soup
ingredients:
Lasagne pasta: 6oz(170 g)- (lasagna noodles, mafalde, reginelle)
Sausage: 1lb(450 g)- Italian (casing removed)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp
Onions: 1- chopped
Garlic: 1clove- minced
Dried oregano: 1tsp
Tomato paste: 2tbsp
Beef broth: 4cups(900 ml)
Canned tomatoes: 1(450 g)
Ricotta cheese: ½cup(120 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ¼cup(30 g)
Parsley: a few- fresh
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Lasagna soup is the easiest way to satisfy your lasagna craving with very little effort: all the elements of a classic lasagna brought together in a rich and tasty tomato broth where all the flavors blend. This main dish is suitable for the whole family, the classic comfort food for Sunday but also for a weekday dinner.
Lasagna soup has a tomato broth base, seasoned with herbs, broken lasagna noodles, crumbled Italian sausage and a generous mound of creamy ricotta for serving that melts in the spoon.
Classic Italian lasagna goes from the oven to the casserole without missing a beat from the original, everything comes together like a one-pot meal without separate boiling of the pasta and without the effort of endless layering. This easy lasagna soup recipe will be ready in under 30 minutes and gives you all the flavor of the classic lasagna casserole in an easy meal that's a real crowd pleaser.
If you love comfort food you can't miss these recipes:
Discover more delicious Lasagna recipes and elevate your cooking game!
If you intend to serve lasagna soup immediately you can cook lasagna directly in the soup but do not cook pasta beyond the cooking time indicated on the package (pasta may overcooked). Otherwise proceed as follows.
Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Cook lasagna noodles “al dente” (about 2 minutes less than recommended on the package). Drain lasagna and rinse with cold water to stop cooking process, then set aside.
In the meantime, heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a pan with high sides, add sausage and break up with a wooden spoon. Cook for about 5 minutes until sausage is golden brown.
Add chopped onion, garlic, oregano and tomato paste, mix and cook for another 5-7 minutes.
Add chopped tomatoes, chicken broth and 1 cup of water and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer, uncovered, for another 10 to 12 minutes.
If you want to cook lasagna noodles directly in the broth, add them at this time. Otherwise, after 10 minutes, always maintaining low heat, add already cooked tagliatelle and continue for another 2 minutes (until the pasta is completely cooked).
While lasagna soup is cooking, combine ricotta and grated parmesan in a bowl and season with a pinch of salt.
Taste soup and season with salt if it needs it.
Place lasagna soup in each individual serving bowl (about 4 ladles), complete each bowl with the ricotta and parmesan mixture and a few fresh parsley leaves. Serve immediately.
Lasagna Soup can be stored in an airtight container in the fridge for a maximum of 3 days. The best way to reheat this soup is over medium heat in a large saucepan. Tends to explode in the microwave, so be careful.
You can prepare Lasagna Soup a day in advance, in this case prepare everything except pasta and place the soup in the fridge in a large airtight container. Just before serving, cook lasagna noodles and add to soup.
It is not recommended to store this soup in the freezer
PASTA: For this recipe we recommend lasagna tagliatelle. Alternatively, there are many other pasta shapes that work well such as reginette or mafalde which look like lasagna noodles with crinkled edges. If you plan to serve lasagna soup immediately you can cook noodles directly in the soup. Keeping cooked pasta separate from the broth gives you the ability to delay serving the soup without compromising the consistency of the noodles.
OIL: Use mild oil such as extra virgin olive oil or avocado oil.
SAUSAGE: Any type of Italian sausage works well, choose as mild or hot as you like. Alternatively, you can omit the sausage entirely for a vegetarian version.
BROTH: Homemade vegetable or chicken broth is best, but store bought works too.
RICOTTA: If you're not a fan of ricotta, top the soup with grated mozzarella or parmesan instead.

