name:
Apple and cinnamon loaf cake
ingredients:
Golden delicious apples: 2
All-purpose flour: 2cups(240 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(130 g)
Butter: ½cup(120 g)- melted
Eggs: 3- medium size (at room temperature)
Cornstarch: 2tbsp(20 g)
Baking powder: 1tbsp(16 g)
Lemon zest: 1tsp- grated
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp
Salt: 1pinch
Royal Gala apples: 1
Brown sugar: 2tsp

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low

instructions:
What's the ultimate apple-based dessert? The answer isn't straightforward, given that there's an abundance of apple treats to choose from. You've got the classic soft apple cake with its delightful fruit chunks, the crumbly goodness of an apple tart , and the apple strudel with its creamy filling. The apple and cinnamon loaf cake joins this lineup of tempting apple treats: a soft, fragrant delight with a subtly caramelized surface and a moist, apple-packed interior. Whether savored at breakfast or as a sweet break during the day, this loaf cake is bound to enchant you with its irresistible aroma!
Check out these recipes too:

To prepare the apple and cinnamon loaf cake, start by cracking the eggs — preferably kept at room temperature for about half an hour — into a bowl. Add sugar and a pinch of salt. Whisk them with an electric mixer for a few minutes until they become light and frothy.
Add cinnamon, grated lemon zest, and melted butter. Continue working the batter with the electric mixer to incorporate the butter perfectly.
Sift in the flour, starch, and baking powder into the bowl. Work the mixture again with the electric mixer for a couple of minutes until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough.
Peel two apples and cut them into fairly small pieces. Add them to the loaf cake dough and carefully mix to distribute them evenly.
Line a 10x4 inches (25.5x10 cm) loaf cake mold with baking paper. Pour the mixture into the mold, leveling it well with the back of a spoon.
Divide the remaining apple into quarters, remove the core, and cut it into thin slices. Arrange them on the surface of the loaf cake next to each other, allowing them to sink slightly into the dough.
In a small bowl, mix 2 teaspoons of brown sugar with a teaspoon of cinnamon powder and spread the mixture over the surface of the cake.
Bake the apple and cinnamon loaf cake in the preheated oven at 356 °F (180 °C) for 45-50 minutes. Before taking it out of the oven, check for doneness by poking it with a toothpick.
Let it cool completely before removing it from the mold.
The apple and cinnamon loaf cake remains soft and fragrant for 3 or 4 days at room temperature.
Instead of butter you can use 100 ml of sunflower seed oil.
This dough is quite dense, making it ideal to be enriched with various ingredients that won't sink to the bottom. Raisins, chocolate chips, or other fruits can be substituted for apples while keeping the doses of other ingredients unchanged.

