name:
Sweet potato ravioli
ingredients:
Sweet potatoes (or yams): 2lbs(910 g)
Ricotta cheese: ½cup(120 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ¾cup(70 g)
Spices: 1tsp- pumpkin
Oregano: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Eggs: 6
Remilled durum wheat semolina: - as needed, for pastry board
Eggs: 1
Butter: 1stick(115 g)
Sage: 4leaves
Pecans: 1cup(150 g)- crushed
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ¼cup(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + resting time for the dough (1 h)

instructions:
Preheat the oven to 400°F.
Cut the sweet potatoes in half lengthwise, brush with olive oil and season with salt and black pepper.
Place cut side down on a baking sheet and roast until tender, about 50 minutes.
Cool, then scoop the pulp out of the potato skins and into a small bowl. Discard the skins.
Add the ricotta, pumpkin spice, oregano and Parmigiano. Set aside.
Place the flour on the counter or in a large bowl and make a well in the center.
Add the eggs in the middle of the well and gradually mix the flour into the eggs, forming a smooth-soft dough (adding additional water if necessary to make the dough soft).
Knead the dough 10 minutes, wrap tightly with plastic wrap and rest on the counter top, at room temperature for 1 hour.
Set up the pasta machine and roll the pasta through the machine, from the thickest setting to the thinnest.
Lay the dough out on a floured work surface with semolina flour and use a 3-inch round cookie or ravioli cutter to cut out as many circles as you can.
Have a small bowl available with 1 whisked egg and gently brush the outside circumference of the circle.
Using a pastry bag (or tablespoon), place 1 tablespoon of the desired filling in the center of the circle that is wet and place another circle on top of the filling.
Work your way around the ravioli, patting the two circles together to work out any air pockets.
Place the ravioli in a single layer on a baking sheet dusted with semolina while you finish with the remaining circles.
Add the butter and the sage in a large sauté pan over medium heat and brown slightly, about 3 minutes.
Remove from the heat and season to taste with salt and pepper.
Working in batches, cook the ravioli in a pot of boiling salted water until tender, about 4–5 minutes if fresh.
Add the ravioli to the pan with the brown butter sauce and toss to coat.
Transfer to plates, drizzling any remaining sauce from the pan over the ravioli. Sprinkle each dish with the remaining Parmigiano and top with the crushed pecans. Serve immediately.
Ravioli are best when boiled right away and then tossed in the sauce, but raviolis store very well in the freezer. You can make a big batch ahead of time and freeze what you don’t need right away. Once ready to eat, just remember they will take a bit more time to cook in boiling water.
This recipe works great with butternut squash as well.
It is always much better to roast a vegetable for a filling instead of boiling because cooking in water could make the filling very runny.

