name:
Chocolate magic cake
ingredients:
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)- lukewarm (around 104 F)
Eggs: 7.76oz(220 g)- (around 4 medium ones) at room temperature
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Butter: 1stick(125 g)- melted, cooled (1/2 cup)
Cake flour: ½cup(65 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 7tbsp(50 g)
Water: 2tsp(10 g)- cold
Vanilla extract: 1tbsp(10 g)
Lemon juice: 1tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Powdered sugar: to taste
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + refrigeration time (at least 2 hours) to set

instructions:
If you've already discovered, fallen in love with, tried, and tried again the classic magic cake , you simply can’t pass up its delightful chocolate version! By substituting a portion of the flour with unsweetened cocoa powder, you’ll create a dessert that's just as astonishing. With a single batter, you will, in fact, achieve three layers of distinct textures: a spongy top layer, a creamier middle, and a bottom layer reminiscent of flan. Here, too, for the magic to unfold, the ingredients must be added in a precise sequence and at the specified temperature. No magic wand necessary – just a keen eye for detail. And as for your guests, well, they don’t need to know the secret behind the magic... Are you ready to wow them with an incredible chocolate magic cake ?
You might like these recipes too:
To make the chocolate magic cake , make sure all ingredients are at the indicated temperatures: take the eggs out of the fridge and separate the yolks from the whites, then melt the butter in a saucepan and let it cool down. Also, heat the milk which will need to be at a temperature of around 104° F. Sift the flour and the unsweetened cocoa powder in a bowl , mix well and set aside. Finally, butter and line a 9 inch square tray with parchment paper. Now you are ready to prepare the batter: pour the yolks at room temperature into the bowl of a planetary mixer fitted with a whisk and beat at medium-high speed, adding the sugar little by little .
After around 5-6 minutes the mixture will become clear and frothy; gradually add the cold water , the vanilla extract and the salt .
Now add the cooled melted butter and stir for a few more moments; set the mixer to minimum speed and add the mixture of powders (flour and cocoa), one spoon at a time . Once the powders are incorporated, gradually add the lukewarm milk .
Now take the egg whites and start beating them using an electric whisk in a separate bowl; add the lemon juice : the egg whites should be semi-whipped, so frothy yet soft . Pour the egg whites into the bowl with the cocoa mixture .
Evenly incorporate the egg whites by delicately stirring them in with a whisk : the final mixture will be very fluid, almost liquid. Pour the resulting mixture into a previously lined mold and bake in a static over preheated to 302°F for around 80 minutes .
Once baked , the cake should be firm on the surface and creamy in the middle, so check the consistency using a toothpick, to make sure it still isn't liquid. Leave to cool in the mold before covering with plastic wrap and leaving it in the refrigerator to firm up for at least 2 hours . Once this time is up, remove the cake from the mold and trim the edges using a damp knife or a nylon string, then divide it into cubes and sprinkle with powdered sugar to taste: your chocolate magic cake is ready to be served !
Chocolate magic cake can be stored in the refrigerator for around 3 days, covered with plastic wrap. You can freeze it whole or cut into cubes.
Vanilla extract can be replaced with the seeds of a vanilla bean or if you prefer, with orange peel. Garnish the cubes with powdered sugar, sweetened or unsweetened cocoa!

