name:
Creamy fettuccine with mushrooms and spinach
ingredients:
Egg fettuccine pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Mushrooms: 1lb(450 g)
Spinach: 2cups(150 g)- baby
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 ml)
Heavy cream: 2tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: 1tbsp- fresh, chopped
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2tbsp(50 g)- optional

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Creamy fettuccine with mushrooms and spinach is a traditional first course of Italian cuisine loved and spread throughout the world. An easy autumn recipe, ideal for when we want to eat a tasty dish but don't have much time to dedicate to the kitchen, perfect for the first cold days. Creamy fettuccine with mushrooms and spinach are a very simple, a tasty "everyday" first course, also ideal for special occasions. And if you want to make this dish even more delicious, prepare fresh egg pasta at home following our super-tested recipe!
If you liked this recipe, don't miss these too:

Clean fresh mushrooms by rinsing them quickly under running water and drying them immediately with a clean cloth. If mushrooms are not very dirty, simply brush them with a brush with soft bristles trying to remove any soil. Never leave mushrooms soaking in water otherwise they will absorb it and release during cooking.
After cleaning mushrooms, cut them into slices about 0,2 inch (5 mm) thick.
Wash fresh spinach.
Place in a large pan 2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil and a clove of garlic cut in half and heat 1 minute.
Add fresh or frozen mushrooms and cook over high heat for 10 minutes or until softened. Season with salt.
In the meantime, boil a pan with plenty of salted water which will be used to cook pasta.
As soon as the water boils, cook fettuccine following times indicated on the package.
When pasta is cooked, drain it - still al dente - and pour directly into the pan with mushrooms.
Mix, add spinach and leave to cook for another 2 minutes, stirring constantly to flavor pasta.
Add 2 tablespoons of double cream and 1 tablespoon of pasta cooking water, mix and sauté for another 2 minutes to finish cooking.
Turn off the heat, add a sprinkling of chopped fresh parsley and grated parmesan and mix before serving.
Creamy fettuccine with mushrooms and spinach should be eaten hot.
Creamy fettuccine with mushrooms and spinach can be stored in an airtight container in the fridge for a maximum of two days. To heat them up, we recommend gratinating them in the oven for 2 minutes.
This recipe is not suitable for keeping in the freezer.
MUSHROOMS: Use the type of mushrooms you prefer. You can use both fresh mushrooms or frozen mushrooms. If you use fresh mushrooms, clean them and remove any soil on the stem. Never soak mushrooms in water! If you use frozen mushrooms, cook them while still frozen and over a high heat otherwise they will release water. If you want to make the sauce even creamier you can blend some of the mushrooms.
SPINACH: If you use frozen spinach, let it thaw at room temperature, then cook it in boiling water for 5 minutes, drain it and mash with a fork to remove excess water before adding it to the sauce.
CREAM: You can replace fresh double cream with ricotta, fresh spreadable cheese or mascarpone. To make this dish lighter you can use a spoonful of ricotta together with a little bit of pasta cooking water.

