name:
Tiramisù cream phyllo cups
ingredients:
Phyllo dough: 7oz(200 g)- 4 sheets
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1lb(500 g)
Eggs: 4
Sugar: 4tbsp
Coffee: 1tsp
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste
Coffee beans: to taste
Mint: 4leaves

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you need a tasty idea for a delicious dessert but, at the same time, simple to prepare try the recipe of these tiramisu cream phyllo cups. A treasure chest of phyllo pastry with a crunchy and crumbly consistency filled with a tasty mascarpone cream, the classic tiramisu cream, the best ever!
Tiramisù cream is very easy to prepare, without cooking, with a firm consistency that does not drip, delicate, creamy and delicious. Furthermore, phyllo pastry cups can be prepared in advance and remain perfect for up to a week, if not filled, and stored in closed containers and you can fill them if necessary with both sweet and savory fillings. If you don't feel like preparing phyllo cups, you can also serve the tiramisu cream in single-portion glasses accompanied by biscuits or simply eat it by the spoonful!
If you also love mascarpone cream you absolutely must try these recipes:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
Separate yolks from whites: collect yolks in a large bowl and whites in a glass with high edges.
Beat egg whites with an electric whisk until you obtain a very white and firm consistency. To check that they are well whipped, turn the glass in which you whipped them upside down (egg whites must not slip away).
Pour sugar into the bowl with egg yolks and start whipping with an electric whisk until you obtain a frothy and rather light mixture.
Add mascarpone cheese, mix with the whisk until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream.
Pour coffee stirring constantly.
Finally, add whipped egg whites, always a little at a time, and mix from top to bottom with a spatula to prevent the mixture from falling apart.
Once you have finished mixing egg whites, tiramisù cream is ready. Store in the refrigerator until ready to use.
Take 4 sheets of phyllo dough measuring 19x10 inch (48x25 cm). With a knife, cut 6 equal squares measuring 5x7 inch (13x18 cm).
Melt butter in the microwave oven.
Line 6 aluminum molds measuring 3,5 inch (9 cm) with one sheet at a time of phyllo pastry (press well to make it adhere to the mold and form a cup). Brush with melted butter between one layer and the other and continue: in total you have to overlap 4 sheets of filo pastry for each mould.
Once you have finished filling the molds, place another mold inside and press lightly with your fingers to give the cup shape. Place all the molds on a baking tray lined with baking paper.
Cook in a preheated static oven at 356 F (180° C) for 8-10 minutes. Then remove the internal molds and finish cooking at the same temperature for another 5 minutes.
Remove from the oven, leave to cool slightly and remove from the molds.
At this point you can compose your desserts: fill eachphyllo cup with tiramisu cream and finish with a sprinkling of dark bitter cocoa, a few coffee beans and a mint leaf. Tiramisu cream phyllo cups are ready to be served.
You can store tiramisu cream in the fridge, closed in an airtight container, for a maximum of 3 days.
The phyllo pastry cups, if they are not filled, remain crunchy for up to 4 days, closed in an airtight container at room temperature.
It is possible to freeze the phyllo cups if they are not yet filled.
PHYLLO PASTA: You can replace ready-made phyllo pastry with puff pastry or shortcrust pastry but in this case you have to lengthen the cooking times and fill the cups a few minutes before serving them to maintain the crunchiness.
TIRAMISU CREAM: For an even more delicious tiramisù cream create a cream with mascarpone and double cream. Combine 7 oz (200 ml) of whipped cream with the ready-made mascarpone cream and mix with a spatula from bottom to top. This way you get a softer and more delicious cream.

