name:
Mushroom gorgonzola crepes
ingredients:
Eggs: 3- medium
Whole milk: 1 ⅓cup(315 ml)
All-purpose flour: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Butter: 4tsp(20 g)- melted; plus more to grease the pan
Salt: 1pinch
Champignon mushrooms: 9oz(255 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- mild
Ricotta cheese: 10.5oz(300 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2tbsp- grated
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1sprig
Pepper: 1pinch
Whole milk: 1 ⅔cup(400 ml)
All-purpose flour: ⅓cup(40 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)- melted
Nutmeg: 1pinch- grated
Gorgonzola cheese: 1oz(30 g)- mild

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes of rest

instructions:
To prepare the mushroom Gorgonzola crepes, start by making the batter: crack the eggs into a bowl, add a pinch of salt, and whisk them with an electric whisk for about half a minute. Slowly pour in the milk while continuing to beat with the electric whisk.
Once the milk is fully incorporated, sift the flour into the bowl and mix it well with the whisk until you achieve a smooth, lump-free batter. Finally, add the melted butter and incorporate it into the dough with the whisk.
Cover the bowl with a sheet of cling film and let the batter rest for half an hour in the refrigerator.
While the batter is resting, prepare the béchamel sauce : warm the milk on the stove or in the microwave, being careful not to bring it to a boil.
In a saucepan, melt the butter over low heat, then remove it from the heat and add the flour. Stir vigorously with a hand whisk or a spoon to blend the flour with the butter.
Return the saucepan to low heat and let it cook for about a minute. Slowly add the milk, stirring constantly.
Once all the milk is incorporated, add a pinch of salt and nutmeg. Continue to cook over low heat for about 5 minutes, stirring constantly, until the béchamel sauce thickens and becomes creamy. Turn off the heat and let it cool.
Next, attend to the mushrooms. Gently brush them with a soft-bristle toothbrush to thoroughly remove any soil, then slice them thinly. Wash and dry the parsley, and chop it finely.
In a large non-stick pan, brown the peeled garlic clove in the oil. Add the mushrooms, a pinch of salt, and pepper, and cook them over high heat for 6-7 minutes, stirring often. Once they are soft, turn off the heat and mix in the chopped parsley. Remove the garlic clove and allow them to cool completely.
After the batter has rested, you can start cooking the crepes. Grease a 9-inch (23 cm) diameter non-stick pan with a small piece of butter, place it on the stove, and wait for it to heat up well.
Next, pour 4 tablespoons of batter into the center of the pan and rotate it to evenly distribute the batter on the bottom. Leave some space around the crepe for easy flipping.
Wait about half a minute, and as soon as the edges of the crepe begin to brown slightly, use a spatula to flip it. Let the crepe cook on the other side for about half a minute, then remove it from the pan with the spatula.
Continue this process until you run out of batter. As you cook the crepes, you can stack them on a tray, separating each with a sheet of baking paper to prevent sticking.
At this point, prepare the filling: remove the rind from the Gorgonzola and cut it into small cubes.
In a bowl, combine the ricotta, the cubes of Gorgonzola, and the grated Parmesan. Mix with a spoon, then add the mushrooms and mix to distribute them evenly throughout the filling.
Now it's time to fill the crepes: place each crepe on a cutting board and spread it with a generous spoonful of filling. Fold it in half, forming a half-moon, and then fold it in half again, creating a sort of triangle.
Take a baking dish large enough to hold all the crepes in a single layer and spread two tablespoons of béchamel sauce on the bottom.
Next, arrange the mushroom Gorgonzola crepes, slightly overlapping them. Season them with the remaining béchamel and garnish with a few cubes of Gorgonzola scattered throughout.
Bake the mushroom Gorgonzola crepes in the preheated oven at 356°F (180°C) for about 30 minutes, then turn on the grill at maximum power for a minute or two to allow them to brown on the surface. Serve immediately.
If there are any leftovers, you can store the mushroom Gorgonzola crepes in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
Unfilled crepes can be kept in the refrigerator for 2 days or in the freezer, sealed in a freezer bag, for up to a couple of months.
Savory crepes are a perfect dish to prepare in advance and store in the freezer. Fill the crepes, place them in a baking dish, season them, cover with aluminum foil, and freeze. When you want to enjoy them, you can either let them defrost overnight in the refrigerator or cook them directly from frozen, increasing the cooking time by 15-20 minutes.
Gorgonzola PDO is a blue cheese made from cow's milk, typical of Lombardy (northern Italy). There are two varieties: mild and spicy. For this recipe it is better to use Gorgonzola mild, which is softer and has a more delicate flavor. If you can't find it, you can replicate the recipe using another blue cheese.

