name:
Peanut butter cookies
ingredients:
All-purpose flour: 1 ¼cup(160 g)
Butter: ½cup(112 g)- unsalted (at room temperature)
Granulated sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Peanut butter: ½cup(130 g)- (at room temperature)
Eggs: 1- large (at room temperature)
Baking soda: ¾tsp(3 g)
Baking powder: ½tsp(2 g)
Salt: ¼tsp(2 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 12 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + refrigerate time (at least 3 hrs)

instructions:
You'll love these easy-to-make, no-fancy-ingredients peanut butter cookies, perfect with a cup of coffee or a glass of cold milk.
Peanut butter cookie recipe has ancient traditions and there are several versions. The first person who introduce peanut butter cookie, with the now-familiar cross-hatch pattern, was Ruth Wakefield's Toll House Tried and True Recipes in 1936. Over the years, similar recipes followed. Our recipe is a simplified version and uses only peanut butter instead of a combination of butter and shortening.
Peanut butter cookies are full of flavor and have the perfect balance of salty and sweet with a wonderfully soft, melt-in-your-mouth texture. Use your favorite brand of peanut butter and a combination of white and brown sugar for a chewy, sweet treat. You can prepare the peanut butter cookies days in advance for instant gratification anytime!
If you love cookies you can't miss these recipes:

In a large bowl, using an electric mixer, beat butter until smooth and creamy, 2 minutes.
Add brown sugar and white sugar and beat for 2 more minutes.
Add peanut butter and egg and mix again 2 minutes.
In a separate bowl mix dry ingredients: flour, baking soda, baking powder and salt.
Combine dry ingredients into butter-sugar mixture and mix with a spatula.
Wrap dough in cling film and refrigerate for 3 hours.
After the dough has rested form cookies. Prepare balls about 1 ¼ inch helping with an ice cream spoon.
Place balls of dough spaced apart on baking sheet covered with parchment paper.
Flatten balls of dough with a fork in a criss-cross pattern. Before using dip fork in sugar to prevent it from sticking.
Bake in the middle rack at 375°F (190°C) for about 9 to 10 minutes until light brown.
Remove biscuits from oven and allow to cool before removing from pan.
UNSALTED BUTTER: Butter must be at room temperature before creaming. In this way when you whip the butter it becomes fluffy and light.
PEANUT BUTTER: You can use smooth or crunchy conventional peanut butter. Smooth peanut butter will give you a smoother texture, crunchy peanut butter will give you a few peanut chunks throughout the cookie. Peanut butter should be at room temperature before blending.
EGGS: Eggs must be fresh and at room temperature before adding them to the dough.
VARIANTS:
You can roll the cookie dough balls in sugar before pressing down with a fork.
To enrich your peanut butter cookies add dark or milk chocolate chips or even a combination of both.
Peanut butter cookies can be stored in an airtight container for about 5 days before drying out.
To store or freeze unbaked cookie dough: store cookie dough wrapped in plastic wrap in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. We suggest freezing ready-made cookies, still raw, in an airtight container and freeze for up to 3 months. Cook as directed, adding a few more minutes to the cook time.
The Peanut Butter Cookie originated in the 1910s, thanks to George Washington Carver from Alabama's Tuskegee Institute. Carver aimed to promote the peanut crop and published a peanut cookbook titled "How to Grow the Peanut and 105 Ways of Preparing it for Human Consumption." Within this cookbook, Carver featured several cookie recipes that incorporated chopped peanuts. It wasn't until 20 years later that peanut butter was introduced into these cookies, along with the distinctive fork marks that are now synonymous with this beloved treat.

