name:
Bicolor ring cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(140 g)
Sugar: 1cup(190 g)
Butter: ¾cup(170 g)- melted
Eggs: 4(220 g)- (around 4 medium ones) at room temperature
Potato starch: 7tbsp(60 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 2tbsp(30 g)- at room temperature
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(20 g)
Baking powder: 2tbsp(12 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
Let's be truthful, what could possibly capture our attention more than a striking contrast of colors? The crisp difference like the duality between night and day, an impressive juxtaposition, reminiscent of our swirl cookies . Art enthusiasts and design lovers know how powerful and impactful a bicolor palette can be. Connoisseurs from all over the world, today we have crafted a recipe that embodies this visual appeal: the bicolor ring cake! Two soft doughs, one light and one dark, start off distinctly, only to merge, creating a harmonious blend, much like two shades coming together to paint a beautiful canvas. Yes, because we love striking contrasts, just like the ciambella bicolore! And once again, we promise to deliver a tale of culinary delight... with a vibrant climax, especially if you embrace the art of this bicolor ring cake!
We also recommend you try our tiramisu bundt cake and Grandma's ring cake !
To prepare the bicolor ring cake start by leaving the eggs and the cream at room temperature; now melt the butter in a small saucepan and leave to cool until warm. Place the sugar and the eggs in a bowl . Beat for a couple of minutes with the electric whisk on a medium speed, just enough for the mixture to start rising slightly . Whisk for another minute at the same speed and add the melted warm butter .
Now for the powders: switch off the whisk, place a colander over the bowl and add the flour , potato starch and yeast . Sieve thoroughly and stir some more with the whisk .
Once you have stirred the powders into the mixture, switch the whisk off and place half of the batter in another bowl . Sieve the cocoa and add it to one of the bowls , then add the cream
and stir thoroughly with a whisk or a spatula by hand . First add the dark batter to half of a previously buttered 9.5" mold (not dusted with flour) to form a semi circle , then add the light batter to fill the other half and complete the circle .
Your cake is ready to be baked in a static oven preheated to 350°F for around 40 minutes . After checking the bicolor ring cake is done by using the toothpick test, leave it to cool until warm before removing from the mold and serving !
The bicolor ring cake can be stored for 2-3 days under a glass cake cloche. If you prefer you can freeze the ring cake once cooled, perhaps already cut into slices for your convenience.
We preferred to leave the batters unflavored, so that you can savor your favorite half even more! Obviously you can flavor your bicolor ring cake with vanilla, citrus fruit peel and, why not, liquor! For an intriguing touch simply flavor both batters in different ways, go on, try it! If you are not too keen about separating the batters, then use chocolate drops, which you can add to both halves: a sweet and indissoluble leitmotif !

