name:
Bacon and potato risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(280 g)
Potatoes: 1(200 g)- medium
Bacon: 8slices(100 g)
Onions: ½
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2tbsp(30 g)
Vegetable broth: 2cups(0.5 l)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp
Salt: 1pinch
Ground black pepper: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
As autumn sets in with its cool embrace and shorter days, it provides us with an opportunity to indulge in dishes that warm the soul and satisfy the palate. In this context, bacon and potato risotto emerges as a comforting meal, perfect for tackling lower temperatures with taste and style. The distinctive feature of this dish lies in its irresistible creaminess, and surprisingly, it doesn't require the addition of butter. It will be the potatoes themselves that, slightly breaking down during cooking, will give the risotto an unexpected creaminess and that touch of sweetness that nicely contrasts with the saltiness of the bacon. Finally, the addition of a bit of rosemary will give it a unique fragrance.
If you love risotto don't miss these recipes:
To prepare the bacon and potato risotto, start by cutting the bacon into strips. Peel the potatoes and cut them into half-inch cubes. Finely chop the onion.
Pour the extra-virgin olive oil into a large non-stick pan, turn the heat to low, and add the onion and bacon.
When the bacon is browned, add the potatoes, a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper.
Let it flavor for about a minute, then add the rice and let it toast for another minute.
Deglaze with some hot vegetable broth. Cook the bacon and potato risotto for approximately 16 minutes, stirring often and adding more hot broth as it gets absorbed by the rice.
When the rice is cooked and the broth has been absorbed, turn off the heat and add the grated Parmesan and chopped rosemary.
Continue to stir the risotto with the heat off for about a minute before serving.
If there happens to be leftovers, you can store it in the fridge for a couple of days and use it to prepare delicious supplì .
The bacon and potato risotto can undergo numerous reinterpretations: instead of bacon, for example, you can use smoked ham or sausage.
To add an extra touch of color to the risotto, you can use some peas or diced pumpkin, to be added along with the potatoes.

