name:
Creamy chicken piccata
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 16oz(450 g)
Flour: 1cup(115 g)
Salt: ½tsp(5 g)
Black pepper: ¼tbsp(2 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 ml)
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(45 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 ml)
White wine: ⅔cup(100 ml)
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(20 ml)
Salted capers: 3tbsp(40 g)- (drained)
Parsley: 1tsp(5 g)- (fresh, chopped)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Chicken piccata is a classic Italian recipe consisting of pan-seared chicken breast with an incredibly tasty lemon butter caper sauce. This simple chicken Piccata recipe is perfect as a weekly dinner and in just a few minutes will make you feel like you're dining in an Italian restaurant.
There are many versions of chicken piccata: in this recipe we tried to create the right balance between the acidity of the lemon, the salinity of the capers and the white wine to obtain a creamy and tasty but not too acidic sauce, with a smaller amount of butter than most existing recipes. In just a few steps you can create this delicious Italian dish, a perfect recipe for both beginners and experienced cooks.
If you love chicken you could also try these recipes:

Cut chicken breast into 3 pieces, then pound until 0.2 inch thick. If you use chicken fillets it is not necessary to cut just pound each piece.
Put flour in a dish together with salt and pepper and mix.
Dip each piece of chicken, press into flour to stick, shake off excess.
Heat 1 tablespoon butter and 2 1/2 tablespoons oil in a large skillet until butter is melted.
Sauté chicken and cook until golden brown (about 2-3 minutes per side). Once cooked remove from pan.
In a clean frying pan, place 2 tablespoons of butter and melt but do not become foamy. Add wine and simmer until reduced by half (about 1 minute).
Put lemon juice in the pan and simmer 1 minute, the sauce should become translucent and slightly thickened. To finish the sauce, add capers and parsley.
Put the chicken breasts back in the pan with the sauce for a few seconds to add flavour.
Turn off the stove and serve chicken piccata garnished with fresh chopped parsley.
Chicken pccata can be stored in the fridge in an airtight container for a maximum of 2 days. Leftovers reheat very well in the microwave or on the stove.
To freeze, place in a refrigerated container and store for up to 1 month. When you want to consume defrost the chicken in the fridge then place in the microwave or oven at 350°F for 15 minutes.
CHICKEN: You can buy whole chicken breasts (3 chicken breasts will make 6 cutlets) or pre-cut chicken cutlets. Cook the chicken for 2-4 minutes per side depending on the thickness of the chicken. Use thermometer to check doneness: cooked chicken should reach 165 C. Try substituting chicken breast for veal cutlets.
FLOUR: The step of dredging the chicken in flour makes the chicken breast juicy, seals in the juices and forms a delicious crust.
BUTTER and OIL: The butter adds flavor to the chicken and creates a creamy sauce, the oil prevents the chicken from sticking to the pan.
WINE: Use dry white wine such as Pinot Gris or Chardonnay. You can omit the white wine alltogether and make the chicken with lemon, or avoid the use of alcohol by replacing all or half of the wine with chicken broth.
LEMON JUICE: Use only freshly squeezed lemon juice
CAPERS: Add flavor and saltiness to the recipe and offset the sour taste of the lemon. You can not add capers if you don't like them or replace with olives.
GARLIC: Some recipes add garlic. You can add it when preparing the sauce.

