name:
Baked sea bass
ingredients:
Sea bass (sea bass): 1.76lbs(800 g)
Onions: 1
Carrots: 2
Celery: 3stalks
Garlic: 1clove
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Cherry tomatoes: 9oz(250 g)
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Basil: to taste- for garnishing

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Average

instructions:
Baked sea bass is a classic seafood dish that allows you to savor the true essence of the sea. With a concise list of ingredients, complemented by a handful of vegetables to enhance the sea bass's natural flavors, this dish is both easy to prepare and quick to make. It's a staple on restaurant menus, often served alongside the salt-crusted version or as an alternative to the potato and lemon variation. When cooked to perfection, baked sea bass is sure to be a hit with your guests, thanks to its exquisite taste!
Check out these similar recipes:
To prepare baked sea bass, start by cleaning the vegetables. Coarsely chop up the onion, the carrots and celery sticks , then cut the tomatoes in half and finely chop the parsley . Place the vegetables in a baking tray, grease and add salt and pepper to taste .
Bake the vegetables in a static oven preheated to 350°F for around 10 minutes . Clean the sea bass in the meantime. After skinning and gutting the fish, by running the blade of the knife down towards the head , remove all the fins: back, side and ventral ones .
Place a pinch of salt and a bay leaf in the middle , then arrange the sea bass on an oven tray, grease the surface of the fish and bake for 15 minutes in the oven . Once ready, flavor with a few basil leaves and your baked sea bass is ready to be served .
Once the baked sea bass is ready, it is best enjoyed right away, although you can store it in the refrigerator for no longer than a day.
Freezing is not recommended once cooked.
You can prepare this dish using frozen sea bass, just leave it to defrost for at least 8-12 hours in the refrigerator.
Once baked, when you arrange the fish on a serving dish, douse it in the sauce left over after baking, or collect the bottom and blend it in a mixer or puree maker, to make a creamy and homogeneous sauce.

