name:
Tuscan chicken pasta
ingredients:
Penne Rigate pasta: 12oz(340 g)
Chicken breast: 1.5lbs(680 g)- skinless boneless
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 ml)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Ground black pepper: ½tsp(2 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Broth: 4cups(950 ml)
Italian seasoning: 2tbsp(20 g)
Heavy cream: ½cup(115 ml)
Mushrooms: 8oz(225 g)
Spinach: 2cups(100 g)- baby
Cherry tomatoes: ½cup(80 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: ¼cup(15 g)- finely chopped
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1cup(50 g)- grated

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Heat extra virgin olive oil in large skillet over medium-high heat, add garlic and saute 1 minute. Remove garlic. Put chicken, cutted into small pieces, salt and pepper and mix. Cook until just starting to brown (about 6 to 8 minutes).
Remove chicken and leave cooking juices. Add broth to the pan, bring to a boil and put the pasta to cook in the broth.
Turn the heat to medium, cover with a lid and cook pasta in chicken broth until “al dente”. The cooking time varies based on the type of pasta you use, so be sure to check the package directions. Stir occasionally to prevent the pasta from sticking to the bottom of the pan.
Once the pasta is cooked “al dente”, reduce the heat to a simmer, add the Italian seasoning mix, mushrooms, chopped cherry tomatoes, spinach leaves, heavy cream, and sun-dried tomatoes, and stir until well incorporated. Let simmer for 1 more minute and remove from stove.
Add previously cooked chicken, stir to combine.
Sprinkle with Parmesan and serve.
Store in the fridge in an airtight container for up to 2 days. Heat in the microwave or in a saucepan on the hob. Add a little olive oil so the pasta doesn't stick.
CHICKEN: use boneless, skinless chicken breasts and cut into bite-sized cubes. This recipe is also a way to use up leftover roast chicken.
HEAVY CREAM: you can replace the heavy cream with half-and-half or whole milk, the result will be a less creamy sauce. If you don't use heavy cream in your cooking you can make a silky, creamy sauce with a combination of milk, flour, Parmesan and the pasta cooking water.
VEGETABLES: you can use frozen vegetables instead of fresh ones. Thaw frozen spinach and squeeze out excess liquid first. You can change the vegetables you use too. This recipe contains mushrooms, dried tomatoes and spinach, you can add other vegetables or use completely different varieties.
PARMESAN: use a wedge or block of Parmesan and grate it instead of buying the pre-grated kind from the store. Freshly grated Parmesan melts much better.

