name:
Grilled shrimp salad
ingredients:
Shrimps: 1lb(450 g)- large (peeled and deveined)
Tomatoes: 2- large (cut into chunks)
Cucumbers: 1- (sliced)
Bell peppers: 1- green (sliced)
Red onions: ½- (thinly sliced)
Feta cheese: ½cup(110 g)- (crumbled)
Olive: ½cup(90 g)- Kalamata (pitted)
Garlic: 2cloves- (minced)
Friggitelli (sweet Italian chili peppers): 4- pickled (optional)
Italian seasoning: 1tbsp(10 g)
Lemon juice: 1tbsp(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¼cup(60 g)
Red wine vinegar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Oregano: 1tsp(15 g)- dried
Salt and Pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Discover the allure of the Mediterranean with this very famous, classic salad : grilled shrimp salad. It’s light, fresh, and bursting with flavors. Featuring perfectly grilled shrimps seasoned with garlic and Italian herbs, this classic dish harmonizes with juicy tomatoes, crisp cucumber, zesty red onion, refreshing green bell pepper, briny Kalamata olives, and creamy feta cheese. Drizzled with a tangy dressing of extra-virgin olive oil, red wine vinegar, and oregano, each mouthful is a burst of flavors. Whether as a delightful side dish or a healthy main meal option, this grilled shrimp salad brings the Mediterranean sun to your table.
You might also like:
In a large bowl, combine the tomato chunks, sliced cucumber, thinly sliced red onion, and green bell pepper slices.
Add the pitted Kalamata olives and feta cheese to the bowl.
In a small bowl, whisk together the extra-virgin olive oil, red wine vinegar, dried oregano, salt, and pepper to make the dressing.
Cook the shrimps: add the peeled and deveined shrimp in a bowl. Add 1 tablespoon of olive oil with the minced garlic and Italian seasoning. Season salt, and black pepper.
Preheat your grill or cast-iron pan to medium-high heat. Place the shrimp on the preheated grill and cook for about 2-3 minutes on each side or until they turn pink and slightly charred.
Once the shrimp are cooked through, remove them from the grill and drizzle with the lemon juice.
Pour the dressing over the salad ingredients and toss everything together until well coated. Top with the pickled pepperoncini and shrimps.
Serve immediately and enjoy your salad!
This salad is much better when made fresh and eaten right away!
You can opt for marinated feta, if you like.
Different dressings work for this salad: you can try balsamic or lemon vinaigrette!

