name:
Fish tacos with pineapple salsa and avocado crema
ingredients:
Tortillas: 4- corn or flour
Halibut: 1lb(450 g)- (or any other white fish fillet)
All-purpose flour: - as needed (for dusting)
Lime juice: 1
Cilantro: to taste
Olive oil: to taste
Salt and Pepper: to taste
Pineapple: 2cups(150 g)
Tomatoes: 4- Roma
Red onions: 1
Jalapeno peppers: 1
Cilantro: 1cup(15 g)
Avocado: 2
Shallot: 1- small
Garlic: 1clove
Sour cream: ½cup(120 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Fish tacos with pineapple salsa and avocado crema are not only easy to prepare but also bring a refreshing twist to your dining experience.This recipe has it all: flaky fish, sweet pineapples, creamy avocado , spicy jalapeno, and zesty lime juice, all in a warm tortilla , where each bite is a tantalizing explosion of tastes.
Whether you're hosting a gathering or enjoying a cozy dinner at home, these fish tacos are sure to be a crowd-pleaser. Embrace the tropical excitement of taco night and let your taste buds dance with joy!
Try our fish tacos with pineapple salsa and avocado crema today!
You might also like:
Core and dice the pineapple into bite-sized pieces.
Cut the red onion and the jalapeno in a small dice. Keep the seeds if you like it very spice or remove them if you prefer it mild.
Chop a hand full of cilantro.
Core the tomatoes and cut in small dice as well. Season with olive oil, salt, pepper and the juice of one lime. Mix everything and set aside.
Slice the avocados in half, remove the pit, and scoop into the food processor or mortar and pestle.
Add the shallot and the garlic after cutting it in small dice.
Add the sour cream and the juice of one lime. Season with salt and pepper. Run the food processor or mix on the mortar and pestle until smooth.
Cover tightly with plastic wrap to avoid browning from oxidation.
Place some flour in a baking tray. Season with salt and pepper. Dredge the fish into the flour and lightly coat each side.
Place a sauté pan or cast iron on the stove on medium high heat. Get the pan very hot and drizzle some olive oil. Place the fish on the pan and cook 3-4 minutes per side.
Flip and let it rest on a cutting board.
Add the tortilla on the pan to quickly warm them up.
To assemble the tacos, place a spoonful of avocado crema on the bottom.
Cut the two fillets in half and serve one half per tacos.
Top with the pineapple salsa and a small squeeze of lime juice.
Garnish with some cilantro leaves.
You can keep the pineapple salsa in the fridge for a few days and the fish for one day, but avocado crema will turn dark pretty fast.
Any white fish works for this recipe, such as cod or snapper for example!
You could substitute roasted corn instead of pineapple for the salsa.

