name:
Olive oil cake with strawberry and zabaglione
ingredients:
Olive oil: ½cup(160 g)
All-purpose flour: 1cup(113 g)
Sugar: 1 ⅓cup(167 g)
Egg whites: 0.3cup(105 g)
Egg yolks: 2tbsp(38 g)
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 g)
Vanilla extract: 2tsp(4 g)
Salt: 1pinch
Strawberries: 1lb(450 g)
Port wine: ½cup(120 g)
Sugar: 3tbsp(30 g)
Lemon juice: 1tbsp(20 g)
Egg yolks: 6
Marsala wine: ¼cup(60 g)- dry
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Pre-heat the oven to 325F.
Combine 110 g of sugar, egg yolks, lemon juice and vanilla paste in stand mixer with whisk attachment. Mix on medium speed until incorporated.
Gradually add flour while mixing on medium speed. In a slow stream, pour in olive oil.
Once thoroughly mixed, transfer to a large bowl and set aside.
Clean and dry the stand mixer bowl and whisk attachment. Add egg whites and salt to bowl of stand mixer. Mix on high speed until eggs form a light foam.
Gradually add 57 g sugar. Mix until stiff peaks form.
Using a spatula, gently fold the egg whites into the batter a third at a time.
Coat a 9-inch springform pan with butter. Dust with flour and tap pan on counter to remove excess flour. Pour batter into pan.
Bake for 45-55 minutes.
Wash the strawberries, cut the top part off and cut in half.
Add the strawberries to a saucepan with sugar and lemon juice on medium heat.
When the sugar melts, turn the heat on high and add the Port Wine.
Cook for 5 minutes, until the liquid is reduced by half. Set aside.
In a medium-size heatproof bowl, whisk the egg yolks, marsala and sugar until smooth.
Place over, not in, barely simmering water and continue beating (switching to an electric handheld mixer, if you like) until the mixture is pale yellow, frothy and falls in thick ribbons when the whisk or beaters are lifted, about 8 minutes if you are whisking by hand or about 4 minutes if you are using an electric mixer. It is important to whisk continuously, or the egg yolks will cook and the mixture will appear curdled.
Remove the sauce from over the heat and serve immediately, either spooned into individual coupes or over fresh fruit or berries.
Use a round cookie cutter to cut out some biscuit-sized pieces of cake.
For each plate put a small spoon of zabaglione in the middle with the first piece of cake on top so it doesn’t slide.
Then put some more zabaglione on top of the cake followed by some strawberries to cover the piece of cake.
Lay a second piece of cake on top. This time put the strawberries first and then finish with a nice drizzle of zabaglione.
The olive oil cake can be stored for a few days wrapped in plastic wrap or in cake stand with a lid.
Zabaglione doesn’t hold very well, but it is so delicious that usually there are no leftovers.
Strawberries, because of the sugar content, can stay in the fridge up to 5 days.
You can use any cake you like for this!
If you prefer, you could just serve the cake in slices and spoon some strawberries on top with a nice drizzle of zabaglione to finish, but it also looks very fancy if you serve it like a shortcake.
You can cook peaches or cherries in the same way, instead of strawberries.

