name:
Strawberry panna cotta
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1cup(235 ml)
Heavy cream: 1cup(235 ml)
Sugar: ¾cup(95 g)
Vanilla extract: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Isinglass: 1 ½tsp(8 g)
Strawberries: 2cups(250 g)- (fresh or frozen)
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 ml)
Mint: to taste- (or basil) to garnish

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time (at least 2 hrs)

instructions:
Panna cotta literally means ‘cooked cream’. You only have to cook some cream with gelatin and leave it in the fridge for a few hours to get the notorious panna-cotta jiggle. That though, would only taste of regular cream, but add some sugar and your favorite flavor and you’ll get a very tasty dessert. Panna cotta may be one of the easiest desserts you can make, but surely is one of the most versatile. This one is a vanilla panna-cotta with strawberries. Once you’ll learn this one, there are really no limits on the combinations you can do, sweet and savory actually. You can make vanilla, strawberries, raspberry or figs to name a few sweet ones, but what about a Parmigiano Reggiano, basil or goat cheese and pears? Absolutely delicious. This recipe is also perfect for a large party because it can be made ahead of time.
You might also like:

Place 2 tablespoons of boiling water in a small heatproof bowl. Sprinkle over the gelatin.
Pour the milk and cream into a saucepan with ½ cup of sugar and vanilla paste. Stir to combine and bring to a simmer.
Add the gelatin (which by now it has set) and stir until completely dissolved.
Pour into 4 ramekins, bowls or wine glasses and place in the fridge to set for at least a couple of hours.
For the strawberry sauce, combine 1 ½ cup of the sliced strawberries, ¼ cup of sugar and fresh lemon juice in a medium saucepan.
Place over medium heat and bring the mixture to a boil, stirring occasionally.
Cook for 15-0 minutes and run into a blender until smooth.
To serve pour a couple of tablespoons on top of the panna-cotta and garnish with the remaining sliced strawberries, the mint or basil leaves.
Panna cotta and the sauce can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days.
You can make it in advance without adding the sauce.
You can use only heavy cream to make it richer.
You can use vanilla extract if you can’t find vanilla paste.
You can substitute strawberries with raspberry, blueberries or blackberries if you prefer.

