name:
Sea scallops, corn, peas and bacon
ingredients:
Frozen peas: 2cups(280 g)
Corn: 1cup(160 g)- frozen
Parsley: 1cup(25 g)
Bacon: 6slices- smoked
Butter: 2tbsp(15 g)
Thyme: 3sprigs
Garlic: 2cloves
Milk: 1cup(240 ml)
White wine: 1cup(220 ml)
Lemons: 1
Shallot: 1
Basil: to taste- to garnish
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Sea scallops are always a luxurious offering. As an appetizer or as a main course , this dish is very easy to make, but surely has a wow factor. In order to get the best sear on sea scallops, it’s important to keep them as dry as possible. It is always better to buy fresh rather than frozen and it is best to cook them the same day you take them home. As soon as you get home, remove the scallops from whatever container or bag they were in. Lay a paper towel on a plate or baking tray, put the scallops on top and pat dry, then move them on a plate and keep in the fridge, uncovered. Take them out of the fridge at least 30 minutes before cooking and pat dry again.
Check out more recipes with sea scallops :
You might also like these recipes:

First, let’s make the pea puree.
Peel and finely chop the shallot.
Melt one tablespoon of butter in a sauté pan, add the shallots and cook for 5 minutes.
Add 1 cup of frozen peas, cook for 2 minutes then add the milk.
Cook for 6-8 minutes, then drain the peas from the milk and move the peas/shallot mix to a blender.
Use a little of the milk if puree is too thick, but make sure to not add too much otherwise the puree will get too liquid. Season with salt and pepper and set aside.
Slice the bacon in half an inch strips.
Add to a pan on medium-low heat and slowly cook to render the fat.
When the bacon is almost cooked, add the corn and remaining cup of peas.
Cook for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally, then turn on high heat and add the wine. Cook until completely reduced. Season with salt and pepper.
Season the scallops with salt and pepper on both sides.
Put a cast iron pan on the stove on high heat. When the pan is hot, add a drizzle of olive oil, then add the scallops.
Turn after 90 seconds, then add one tablespoon of butter, thyme and garlic and baste. Cook for 90 seconds more then remove the scallops from the pan.
For plating, spoon some of the green peas puree on the bottom, spoon the bacon/peas/corn mix over it and then place the scallops.
Garnish with some finely sliced basil and lemon zest.
This dish is much better eaten right away. Reheated scallops are not going to taste very good as they would over cook and taste rubbery and chewy. But if you really have to, the scallops can be stored in the fridge until the next day.
The puree and mixed vegetables can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days.
You could use shrimp instead of scallops.
You can use fresh, canned or frozen veggies for this recipe.

