name:
Whipped ricotta dip
ingredients:
Ricotta cheese: 1 ½cup(400 g)- whole milk
Aromatic herbs: ¼cup(20 g)- mixed fresh (parsley, basil)
Fresh garlic: ½clove- crushed
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(40 ml)
Ground black pepper: ¼tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: ¼tsp(3 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low

instructions:
This whipped ricotta dip with fresh herbs is undoubtedly the quickest and easiest appetizer you'll ever make. It's a must-have at every party, the kind of recipe to keep handy for unexpected visits from friends, as a snack while you're cooking, or for a simple and healthy nibble.
This creamy whipped ricotta recipe is made with a few simple ingredients, takes just 5 minutes, and requires no cooking. Fresh ricotta is seasoned with herbs, garlic, salt, olive oil and pepper, then whipped to achieve a velvety and frothy texture. It's a simple combination that never fails to impress.
This delicious cream is great on its own or served with toasted bread, pita bread, or fresh vegetables. For a fancier presentation, you can create quenelles or use a piping bag to serve the whipped ricotta dip on individual plates, alongside roasted vegetables or grilled chicken. And the best part? It's budget-friendly!
For more quick and easy appetizer recipes, give these a try:
Place ricotta cheese in a large bowl and vigorously mix it with an electric beater to incorporate as much air as possible, creating a fluffy foam.
Once the volume has increased, add a tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil and continue mixing vigorously for a few minutes.
In a food processor combine parsley, basil, garlic and a teaspoon of extra virgin olive oil, finely chopping until it forms a creamy mixture.
Add the chopped aromatic herbs to the bowl with the whipped ricotta and season with salt and pepper.
Continue whisking with the electric beater until the ricotta is well blended, smooth and whipped. If the consistency is too thick, add more olive oil.
Transfer the whipped ricotta to a serving bowl, garnish with chopped herbs and serve.
Store in airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. This recipe is not suitable for freezing.
Ricotta : opt for whole milk ricotta for optimal results, instead of semi-skimmed ricotta, to achieve a creamier texture. To enhance the mousse's softness, you can incorporate 1 tablespoon of double cream.
Olive oil : incorporating olive oil aids in whipping up the sauce, resulting in a fluffier texture, while also imparting additional flavor to the delicate ricotta cheese.
Fresh herbs : basil and parsley were the primary herbs utilized. Other fresh herbs that work well include mint, thyme, oregano and chives.
With this basic recipe you can also create endless variations of dips, such as tuna, ham, salmon, or mushrooms. Just blend all the ingredients together thoroughly for a perfectly mixed and creamy result. Each bite will be smooth, delicate and airy!

A generous platter of fresh vegetables including tomatoes, carrots, cucumbers, and celery.
Perfectly pairs with crackers, toast, bagels, or warm pita bread.
Substitute mayo with this delicious spread in sandwiches.
An excellent side to complement grilled meat or chicken.

