name:
Italian tuna sandwich
ingredients:
Baguette: 1(300 g)
Tuna in oil: 0.66lb(300 g)
Tomatoes: 0.66lb(300 g)
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 4.6oz(130 g)
Eggs: 4(240 g)
Lettuce: 3oz(80 g)- or mixed salad
Basil: 15leaves
Egg yolks: 2
Sunflower seed oil: 1cup(250 ml)
Lemon juice: 1
Salt: to taste
Genoese pesto (Basil sauce): 4.4oz(125 g)
Balsamic vinegar glaze: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1drizzle

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The Italian tuna sandwich is the perfect solution when you're unsure of what to prepare for lunch or when you're craving a tasty, healthy snack that goes beyond the usual bar sandwich. So forget about those predictable sandwiches and think big!
Enclosed between two slices of baguette toasted in a pan for a satisfying crunch, this Italian tuna sandwich features a simple yet flavorful filling that is both rich and satisfying. It's seasoned with aromatic basil pesto for an extra touch of flavor, as well as zesty basil mayonnaise to give it an extra edge.
Our tuna sandwich with basil pesto, tomatoes, hard-boiled eggs, salad, buffalo mozzarella and basil mayonnaise is sure to win you over with its colors, aroma, and most importantly, its taste. You don't need to be a skilled chef to make a great sandwich. However, it is crucial to find the right ingredient combinations and to use the appropriate ingredient proportions.
The Italian tuna sandwich is the perfect option when you want a satisfying and delicious sandwich that can double as a meal. With a balanced combination of carbohydrates, proteins, and vegetables all in one dish, along with plenty of flavorful sauces to enhance the taste, it's a filling and satisfying choice. Plus, you can even prepare it in advance the morning before work to save time!
Along with the tuna sandwich, discover these appetizing recipes:
Prepare the ingredients.
Put eggs, covered with water, in a saucepan and bring to the boil. After 8 minutes, turn off the flame: the eggs will be hard-boiled.
Peel them, pass under running water to remove any shell residues, cut into slices and salt lightly.
Drain tuna from the preserving oil and chop it coarsely.
Shred mozzarella with hands.
Wash lettuce and dry with paper towels, cut tomatoes into thin slices, put both in a bowl and dress with a drizzle of oil and a pinch of salt.
Prepare the mayonnaise.
Divide yolks from whites.
Put egg yolks in a tall, narrow container. Combine washed and well dried basil leaves, juice of half a lemon and sunflower oil.
Take an immersion blender and blend continuously by raising and lowering it so that basil mayonnaise starts to whip. Continue to whisk until mayonnaise is well whipped.
Season with salt and mix. Basil mayonnaise is ready.
Prepare the baguette.
Cut baguette into 4 equal pieces, split each piece in half with a serrated knife.
Pour a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil into a pan, heat, place slices of bread on the cut side until they are golden brown (about 1 minute). Be careful not to burn. When they're ready, remove from the heat and arrange on a cutting board for filling.
For each sandwich, roll out a slice of bread with the crust facing down. Spread one half with 2 tablespoons of basil pesto and the other half with a thin layer of basil mayonnaise.
Fill the sandwich.
On top of basil pesto add roughly chopped tuna, then a layer of tomatoes, followed by a layer with cut boiled eggs, a layer with salad and finally buffalo mozzarella.
Season lightly with a balsamic vinegar glaze and a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil.
Your simple but delicious Italian tuna sandwiches are ready.
Enjoy Italian tuna sandwich just ready, or cold or slightly warmed in the oven.
You can store in the fridge in an airtight container for up to 1 day; before enjoying, heat in the oven or microwave.
Tuna is an excellent ingredient for sandwich fillings as it provides great flavor without being too heavy: it's best to choose tuna in oil rather than natural tuna, which is less flavorful and can have a stringy texture.
We used baguette bread but you can also choose wholemeal bread or pre-sliced bread.
You can replace mozzarella with another type of cheese you prefer such as Parmesan flakes or cream cheese.
For a sandwich with a more decisive taste, replace salad with rocket or for a more delicate and aromatic taste, just put only basil leaves.
If you don't want to make mayonnaise at home, you can buy it ready-made and flavor it with chopped basil leaves or other aromatic herbs.
This is a versatile recipe that can be tailored to your personal tastes and preferences. Consider adding cucumbers, celery, or rocket, swapping out the mozzarella for a different type of cheese, or experimenting with different sauces such as tzatziki or hummus .

