name:
Guacamole and shrimp crostini cups
ingredients:
Avocado: 2- small, ripe
Red onions: 3tbsp(7 g)- minced
Cilantro: 2tbsp(3 g)- finely chopped
Lime juice: 2tbsp(20 g)
Salt: 1pinch
Jicama: 2tbsp(17 g)- minced
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(10 g)
Fresh garlic: 2cloves- grated
Onion powder: 1tsp(3 g)
Cayenne pepper: 1pinch
Sweet Paprika: 1pinch
Oregano: ¼tsp(1 g)- dry
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tsp(10 g)
White wine: 4tbsp(40 g)- or to taste
Flour tortillas: 12- small
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(30 g)
Shrimps: 12- large, wild (12/20 ct), fresh or frozen
Bell peppers: 1- small, very finely diced
Olive oil: 3tsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
Crostini are an Italian appetizer , they consist of a small piece of bread toasted to a crunch and topped with a variety of ingredients. Crostini can be messy to eat, especially if the topping is soft and juicy.
Introducing the crostini cups: where a bread is toasted to retain the shape of a cup and filled with your favorite sauce... in this case the best guacamole and a spicy shrimp.
A new appetizer, a great small bite that is also easy to prepare. You could substitute the shrimps for a tiny meatball, some sundried tomatoes or hardboiled eggs. The sky is the limit, let your imagination go wild.
Enjoy these additional recipes too:

Wash and cut the avocados in half. Remove the pit and place the pulp in a medium bowl.
Add the lime juice and salt and mash it down until you get a thick paste.
Incorporate the remaining ingredients and set aside.
If you are using frozen shrimps refrigerate them overnight until thawed.
Remove the shells and devein. Clean with a paper towel, don't use water.
In a large bowl mix all the ingredients for the dry rub. Add 1 tbsp of olive oil and toss the shrimps into the dry spices until coated. Let rest at room temperature for about 15 minutes.
Heat 3 tbsp of  olive oil in a large skillet and, when hot, cook the shrimps until they turn pink and their meat is firm, about 3 minutes. Deglaze with 4 tbsp of  white wine and cook a few more minutes. Remove from heat.
Pre-heat oven to 350°, using a cookie cutter or a small plate as a template, cut out the tortillas to about 3.5 inches disks (9 cm).
Place the 12 disks into the bottom of the cavities in a muffin pan. Press another muffin pan on the top to keep the tortillas down and prevent puffing. You could use also small metal container or weights.
Bake for about 7 to 10 minutes until golden, cool down with the weights into the cavities.
Once the little cups are cooled, remove them from the muffin pan.
Fill each one with about 2 tbsp of the guacamole and one shrimp.
Garnish with the minced red bell pepper.
Serve with extra lime wedges on the side.
Serve immediately.
If filled too much in advance the crispy crostini cups will absorb the moisture and become soft and soggy: try to assemble the dish just before service. The shrimps can be served cold, as well.
Guacamole can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days at most, in a sealed container.

