name:
Avocado basil pesto pasta
ingredients:
Pasta: 1lb(400 g)
Avocado: 1(300 g)- medium size
Basil: 3oz(80 g)- fresh leaves
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(80 g)
Pecorino cheese: ¼cup(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ⅓cup(100 g)
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 ml)- fresh
Garlic: 1clove
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: 1pinch
Pine nuts: ¼cup(40 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Avocado basil pesto is a light and flavorful no-cook sauce, ready in just 10 minutes. Perfect for busy weekdays when time is limited.
You're going to adore this avocado basil pesto pasta! The pesto is crafted using a handful of simple ingredients: ripe avocado, basil, toasted pine nuts, parmesan, pecorino and a splash of lemon juice. Incredibly creamy, even without the addition of heavy cream, it beautifully coats pasta with its rich and enveloping flavor.
This recipe comes from the marriage between guacamole and Genoese basil pesto , two flavors that come together perfectly to create a simple, quick and nutritious dish. A beginner-friendly recipe that requires no culinary expertise, ready in under 5 minutes: toss all the ingredients into a mixer or blender while the pasta cooks, and in just 10 minutes, you'll have a wholesome, creamy, healthy and budget-friendly dish. The only precaution is to use the avocado basil pesto immediately after preparation, as it tends to oxidize and darken if exposed to air for too long.
If you are interested in avocado basil pesto pasta you might also enjoy these:
Check out our variations of pesto:

Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Toast the pine nuts in a non-stick pan and set them aside.
To prepare the avocado basil pesto, halve the avocado, remove the pit, and scoop out about 5 ounces of pulp.
Place the avocado pulp, garlic, lemon juice, 1 teaspoon of salt, and ½ teaspoon of pepper in a blender.
Blend for 1 minute. Then add Parmesan, Pecorino and basil and blend again.
With the blender running, gradually add oil and drizzle in 1/4 cup of water until well blended.
Transfer the avocado basil pesto to a jar.
Cook the pasta according to the package directions, reserving ½ cup of the pasta cooking water.
Drain the pasta.
In a large bowl, combine the avocado basil pesto with the cooked pasta and 1/2 cup of the pasta water. Stir until the pasta is well coated with the sauce.
Serve immediately, optionally garnishing with grated cheese and toasted pine nuts.
Recipes featuring fresh avocado tend to have a short shelf life due to pulp oxidation, resulting in browning. Adding lemon juice can aid in prevention.
To store this avocado basil pesto simply place it in an airtight container in the refrigerator with a thin layer of olive oil on top. It can be kept for up to 2 days. Additionally, you have the option to freeze the pesto for a maximum of 1 month.
Avocado is rich in healthy fats, so you can skip the oil and opt for water or vegetable broth to adjust the consistency of Avocado Basil Pesto. Feel free to choose your preferred pasta shape, or alternatively, gnocchi also work well.
Avocado basil pesto is versatile and can be used as a sauce for fish or grilled meat, as well as for vegetables or as a spread on toasted bread slices.

