name:
Avocado chocolate mousse
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Avocado: 9oz(260 g)
Sugar: 3tbsp(40 g)
Ground pistachio: to taste
Almond slices: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 2 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + refrigerate for 15 minutes

instructions:
We've often repeated that simple recipes are the best and in this case we won't deny it: avocado chocolate mousse is a creamy summer dessert made with only three ingredients that can be prepared in less than half an hour! If you liked the avocado and chocolate popsicles , then you'll love the same flavor combination in this sweetly velvety version, which will allow you to fully appreciate the buttery texture of the avocado and its slight nutty aroma, the perfect complement to the intensity of dark chocolate. Naturally vegan and gluten-free, avocado chocolate mousse is the ideal choice if you're looking for a last-minute dessert for a dinner with friends, but also for a nutritious snack to tempt even the most indulgent kids! All that's left is for you to try it out!
Also check out our classic version of the Chocolate mousse
To prepare the chocolate and avocado mousse, first cut the avocado in half and remove the pit using a spoon , then extract the pulp (you will get about 8.5 oz) and put it in a blender .
Add the sugar and blend until you get a smooth and lump-free cream . Melt the chocolate in the microwave at 900W for about 2 minutes, stirring it every 30 seconds to prevent it from burning; alternatively, you can melt it using a double boiler or the bain marie method.
Combine the avocado cream with melted chocolate and mix well with a spatula to blend everything , then transfer the mixture to a piping bag fitted with a star-shaped tip and let it firm up in the refrigerator for about 15 minutes.
After the resting time, fill 4 glasses with the chocolate and avocado mixture, then garnish with pistachio and sliced almonds : your avocado chocolate mousse is ready to be served !
The avocado chocolate mousse can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you love spicy notes, you can blend some freshly grated ginger together with avocado pulp and sugar... or dare with a pinch of chili pepper!

