name:
Homemade Italian dressing
ingredients:
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾cup(180 ml)
White wine vinegar: ¼cup(60 ml)
Garlic: 1clove- finely grated or pressed
Dried oregano: 1tsp(0.6 g)
Dried Basil: 1tsp(0.6 g)- or fresh leaves
Lemon juice: 1tsp(5 ml)
Fine salt: ¾tsp(6 g)
Onion powder: ½tsp(0.5 g)
Pepper: ½tsp(3 g)
Red pepper: ¼tsp(0.4 g)- fresh cut

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 2 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low

instructions:
It's certainly easier to buy bottled dressing, but once you try this homemade Italian dressing recipe, you won't look back.
Homemade Italian dressing is easy, quick, cheap and delicious, and it tastes so much better than any store-bought kind—no additives, nothing artificial, just the wholesome stuff.
You probably already have all these ingredients at home and you can prepare it as many times as you want: it's very fast and will be ready in less than 2 minutes, just put all the ingredients in a regular jar and shake vigorously.
This homemade Italian dressing recipe is truly versatile. You can use it to sprinkle salad, a plate of mozzarella and tomatoes, to season cold pasta or grilled vegetables, instead of mayonnaise in a sandwich, or to flavor cut meat. Once prepared, you will have no problem using it.
With homemade Italian dressing, you can experiment :

Combine all ingredients in a glass jar, close the lid and shake until well blended and emulsified.
You can also mix dressing in the blender.
Season with salt if desired.
Use immediately or refrigerate.
Store any remaining dressing in a tightly sealed jar and refrigerate for up to 2 weeks.
It is important to remember some precautions: you always need an oily part, an acid part and finally salt and spices; the ingredients must all be of good quality; dose the vinegar well so as not to cover other flavours; incorporates the spices well.
Oil : opt for extra virgin olive oil for superior taste and nutritional benefits over vegetable oil.
Vinegar : white wine vinegar is commonly used, but you can substitute it with red wine vinegar for a bolder flavor or apple cider vinegar for a more delicate taste. For an extra special salad, try using balsamic vinegar. Alternatively, lemon can be used as a suitable option for those who dislike the taste of vinegar.
Salt : for even distribution, dissolve salt in the acidic part of the dressing, such as vinegar or lemon juice. If you wish to reduce salt usage, enhance the flavors with an abundance of spices or aromatic herbs. Additionally, if the salad already contains salty ingredients like olives, capers, or anchovies, use minimal or no additional salt.
Herbs : enhance the flavor by adding a few teaspoons of finely chopped herbs, such as chives, parsley or tarragon.

