name:
Spaghetti alla Nerano (spaghetti with zucchini)
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11oz(320 g)
Provolone cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)- Provolone del Monaco or Caciocavallo (see Tips section below)
Zucchini: 25oz(700 g)
Basil: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ¼cup(30 g)- grated
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: - as needed

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare Spaghetti alla Nerano, start by placing the zucchini on the heat: wash and trim them , then thinly slice them into rounds using a mandolin . Heat olive oil in a large frying pan, once the oil reaches 150°C (300°F), the ideal frying temperature, immerse the zucchini slices a few at a time to avoid lowering the oil temperature, cook for about 5-6 minutes, enough time to make them golden brown.
Once cooked, drain them using a skimmer and place them on a tray lined with paper towels to remove excess oil . As you cook the zucchini, season them with salt
and sprinkle hand-torn basil leaves over them . Set the zucchini aside and bring a high-sided pot of salted water to a boil for cooking the spaghetti. Meanwhile, grate the Parmesan and Provolone del Monaco using a coarse grater . Then, cook the pasta until it is very "al dente" (around 6 minutes of cooking time).
Meanwhile, in a wide pan, heat 30g of extra virgin olive oil, add the whole garlic cloves to infuse the flavor , then remove the garlic cloves with kitchen tongs , and pour in the previously fried zucchini .
Add a ladleful of pasta cooking water and quickly sauté the zucchini for a moment to soften them slightly and prevent them from becoming dry . After approximately 6 minutes of cooking the spaghetti, drain them directly into the pan with the sauce , making sure to save the cooking water.
Add a ladle of pasta cooking water, as needed, to continue cooking the spaghetti, stirring them like risotto : it will take about 3 minutes. Then turn off the heat. Pour in a portion of Provolone del Monaco, stirring the spaghetti to melt it and create a creamy sauce ; once it has been absorbed, proceed to sprinkle grated Parmigiano Reggiano and the remaining Provolone.
Enhance the flavor further by adding hand-torn basil leaves and pour in another ladle of pasta cooking water . Stir well and once ready, sprinkle with freshly ground pepper. Serve your piping hot Spaghetti alla Nerano !
It is preferable to consume spaghetti alla Nerano right after they are cooked. Freezing is not recommended.
The secret to achieving creamy spaghetti is to avoid letting the preparation dry out too much and carefully adding the pasta cooking water little by little as needed, ensuring a perfect emulsion!
Provolone del Monaco is an aged stretched-curd cheese, produced in the Sorrento Peninsula, with a slightly spicy taste. If you can't find it, you can substitute it with a good aged caciocavallo, so as not to stray too far from the original flavor.

