name:
Apricot tiramisu
ingredients:
Apricots: 22oz(600 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 18oz(500 g)
Ladyfingers: 14oz(400 g)
Sugar: ⅔cup(120 g)
Eggs: 6- medium size, at room temperature
Apricots: 9oz(250 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(100 g)
Powdered sugar: 3tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Serving: 12
Cost: Low
Note plus 2 hours in the refrigerator.

instructions:
The classic tiramisu takes a vacation... to make room for a much more summery version, perfect for this season! The cream is still the same, made with eggs and mascarpone, but instead of coffee for soaking the ladyfingers, we've used fruit! After the strawberry version and the mixed berries one , today we want to suggest an even more original idea: apricot tiramisu. This summer fruit pairs perfectly with the mascarpone cream due to its sweetness, but we'll reveal a little trick to enjoy this dessert all year round: use canned apricots to make it even during the winter season. The result will be a refreshing and delightful dessert that encapsulates all the flavor of apricots, embraced by a luscious cream. Give it a try and let yourself be swept away by the fruity whirlwind of this apricot tiramisu!
Check out these other tasty variation of tiramisu:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the apricot tiramisu, start by making the syrup for the ladyfingers. Take the apricots (intended for the syrup), wash them thoroughly under running water, and using a small knife, cut them in half . Remove the central pit and without peeling them, dice them into small pieces , then transfer them to the tall glass of a blender .
Add the milk and start blending with an immersion blender until the apricots are creamy .
Add powdered sugar and continue blending until you obtain a smooth and creamy mixture . Transfer your soaking syrup into a shallow and spacious baking dish (this will make it easier to dip the ladyfingers later) and place it in the refrigerator.
Now, focus on preparing the cream. Break the eggs and separate the egg whites from the yolks into two separate large bowls. Add half of the sugar to the yolks and start whisking them with a beater until you obtain a light and frothy mixture that has doubled in volume . Then, while keeping the beater running, add the mascarpone cheese .
Continue to beat until the mascarpone is fully incorporated with the eggs . After washing and drying the beaters, also take the egg whites and start whisking them with the mixer . Once a white foam is obtained, add the remaining portion of sugar .
Whisk the egg whites until stiff peaks form and gently fold them into the egg and mascarpone mixture , using a whisk, being careful not to deflate the mixture. Your apricot tiramisu cream is now ready .
Wash the apricots (intended for the preparation of the tiramisu), cut them in half, and remove the pit. Slice 5 of these halves into thin slices, resulting in 4 slices per half , which will be used for the final decoration. Dice the remaining apricots into cubes . Now, proceed to assemble your apricot tiramisu. Take the small glasses and, using a spoon, place a first layer of mascarpone cream .
Retrieve the soaking syrup from the refrigerator and use it to dip the ladyfingers . For each layer, half of a ladyfinger will be sufficient. Once the ladyfingers are soaked, place them on top of the cream in the serving glasses . Add another layer of cream
and diced apricots . Layer again with 2 halves of soaked ladyfingers in the apricot syrup and finish the glass with a final layer of cream . Decorate with apricot slices and refrigerate for about 2 hours before enjoying your apricot tiramisu!
Store your apricot tiramisu in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for a maximum of 2 days.
If you prefer, instead of making individual portions, you can use a single baking dish measuring 30x20 cm.

