name:
Breadcrumbs meatless meatballs with marinara sauce
ingredients:
Breadcrumbs: 3.5oz(100 g)- unflavored, panko or similar
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- grated
Fresh garlic: 2cloves- sliced
Whole milk: 3tbsp(30 ml)
Eggs: 2- large
Parsley: 2tbsp(8 g)- minced, or to taste
Salt and Pepper: to taste
Vegetable oil: 4cups(1 l)- such as grapeseed oil, for frying
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: - to garnish
Canned tomatoes: 28oz(800 g)- sauce or crushed
Fresh garlic: 2cloves- large
Oregano: 1pinch- dry, rubbed on the palm of your hand before using
Red Chili Flakes: to taste
Balsamic vinegar: 1tbsp(10 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(20 ml)
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
This recipe for breadcrumbs meatless meatballs and marinara sauce is actually two recipes in one! You could totally omit the cheese balls and prepare the marinara for your favorite pasta dish, or use it as a pizza topping. On the other hand, one could prepare the meatless meatballs and serve them with a cheese platter, olives and a glass of wine. The sky is the limit.
Who would have known that such a delicious, flavorful combination would be also vegetarian friendly? This dish will bring your taste buds on a free journey to the Mediterranean, where the sun always shines, the flavors are pure, and where simplicity is the ultimate sophistication.
You may also like these vegetarian meatball recipes:

In a medium casserole sauté the olive oil with the garlic until fragrant. Add the canned tomatoes, a few leaves of basil (about 5 medium) and the balsamic. Salt to taste.
Let the sauce simmer for about 10 minutes, then add the oregano. Taste again for salt and add the red chili peppers if desired. Turn the heat to low while you prepare the meatballs.
In the bowl of a large food processor, place the breadcrumbs and the garlic. Pulse to incorporate. Add the cheese and pulse a few more times until you get a uniform crumb. Transfer the bread mix to a bowl.
In a separate bowl mix the salt, eggs and milk. Beat the eggs until frothy.
Mix the parsley with the breadcrumbs and fold in the egg mix. The breadcrumbs will absorb the moisture and become supple and soft.
Divide the mix into 24 portions (about 6 meatless meatballs per person). Oil your hands lightly and roll the balls until round an smooth.
Bring the vegetable oil to 350° F and fry the meatless cheese balls for about 5 minutes or until golden brown. Do not overcrowd the pan, you can fry in two different batches.
Remove the cheese meatless balls from the oil and place them on a paper towel to absorb the excess oil. After they have drained properly, toss them into the tomato sauce.
Serve the sauce and breadcrumbs meatless meatballs with your favorite pasta, bread, or even on pizza.
Enjoy!
This recipe is perfect for a vegetarian version of spaghetti and meatballs !

