name:
Soft tiramisu tart
ingredients:
Cake flour: 1 ⅓cup(180 g)
Sugar: ⅔cup(125 g)
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 2
Coffee: ½cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 1 ¾tbsp(10 g)
Baking powder: 1 ½tbsp(8 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 6oz(170 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(95 g)
Powdered sugar: ⅓cup(40 g)
Coffee: 6tsp(30 g)- at room temperature
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 1 ½tsp(3 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 1tsp(5 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(100 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste
Coffee beans: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note plus cooling time

instructions:
Tiramisu is one of the most beloved desserts, replicated and enjoyed worldwide. Many have attempted to reinvent it while preserving its original flavor. From cheesecake to truffles , each recipe has been a huge success... but today we tempt you with a truly special dessert: the soft tiramisu tart! The base, flavored with coffee and chocolate, is incredibly fluffy and thanks to the smart mold, it takes on a unique shape, ready to be filled with our two-flavored half-spheres! Cocoa, coffee, cream, and mascarpone combine to create an original filling that makes this dessert both scenic and perfect for special occasions!
Also, try our tasty variations of classic tiramisu:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the soft tiramisu tart, start by making the cream. In a bowl, pour the mascarpone cheese and powdered sugar . Mix with an electric whisk until obtaining a creamy consistency . Soak the gelatin in cold water. Then pour the cream in a separate bowl, setting aside 20 grams for dissolving the gelatin. Whip it with the electric whisk, well-cleaned .
Heat the reserved cream, and as soon as it is warm, add the squeezed gelatin and stir until it dissolves . Wait a few moments so it's not too hot, then pour it into the mascarpone mixture while continuing to mix with the electric beaters .
Now gradually add the fresh liquid cream and gently incorporate it with a spatula, stirring from the bottom upwards . Then divide the cream into two bowls. In the first one, add the coffee at room temperature
and stir . In the second bowl, add the unsweetened cocoa powder and mix until it's evenly combined .
Next, divide the coffee mixture into a mold with 3 cm (1 inch) half-spheres , making 8 spheres. Then pour the cocoa mixture into another half-sphere mold, this time with 5 cm (2 inch) spheres , making 5 spheres. Place the molds in the freezer to firm up for at least 30 minutes or until the tart is ready and chilled. To keep them level, place them on a tray .
Meanwhile, make the base. In a bowl, combine the butter and sugar , then use an electric mixer to work the ingredients until they are creamy in texture . Add the eggs and continue to mix until the mixture is smooth.
Continuing to mix with the electric whisk, add the coffee, which shouldn't be hot , the flour , and the sifted baking powder .
When you obtain a smooth mixture, add the cocoa and incorporate it with the electric whisk. Then, butter a 22 cm (9 inch) diameter wavy edge pan and pour the mixture inside , leaving 1 cm (0.4'') from the edge. Smooth the surface with a spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 180°C (356°F) for 35 minutes.
Before baking the dessert, always do the toothpick test and once cooked, let it cool at room temperature . When the dessert is completely cold, unmold it and dust the edges with powdered sugar .
Now, whip the cream for decoration and transfer it to a pastry bag with a 12 mm (0.5'') star tip . Then, take the cocoa half-spheres out of the freezer and gently remove them from the molds .
Place them on the tart , then take the coffee ones and remove them from the molds in the same way . Place them on the tart, alternating them with the cocoa ones . Since they are smaller, they will fit together and cover almost the entire surface of the tart.
Using a pastry bag filled with whipped cream, squeeze dollops into the remaining empty spaces , then dust with cocoa powder and decorate with coffee beans . Refrigerate and wait for about half an hour before serving your beautiful soft tiramisu tart!
The soft tiramisu tart can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
You can further flavor the base with a rum or any other liquor of your choice.
If you don't have a sphere-shaped mold, don't worry. Simply follow these steps: place the two creams in separate pastry bags, chill them until firm, and then pipe the cream in dollops on top of the tart.

