name:
Air fryer patties
ingredients:
Ground beef: 12.35oz(350 g)- freshly ground
Ground pork: 4.6oz(130 g)- freshly ground
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3tbsp(20 g)- grated
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
With the air fryer patties recipe, delivery will be just a memory! Homemade patties are easy and quick to prepare and, thanks to this cooking method, they will also be healthier and lighter... with the air fryer, you won't need to add fats and you'll avoid the typical smell of grilled meat filling up the air. Tender and juicy, air fryer patties are perfect to enjoy inside rich and succulent buns or as a main course with a side of vegetables! Enjoy!
Check out these other air fryer recipes:
To make air fryer patties, combine ground beef and pork in a bowl , then add salt , pepper, and grated Grana Padano DOP cheese .
Also add the thyme and mix with your hands to obtain a homogeneous mixture . Place a circular pastry cutter with a diameter of 3 inches and a half on a sheet of parchment paper and fill it with 4 oz of the mixture .
Compact the meat with the back of a spoon or a meat mallet, depending on the desired consistency . Gently remove the pastry cutter and proceed in the same way to form the other 3 burgers. At this point, cut the parchment paper into squares to separate the burgers and handle them more easily .

Place the patties in a 4.4 Qt air fryer using parchment paper to assist, then remove it . Cook 2 patties at a time at 390°F for 10 minutes, flipping them halfway through . Your air-fried patties are ready to be enjoyed as desired !

Air fryer patties can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 2 days in an airtight container.
You can store raw patties in the refrigerator for one day, separated with parchment paper. Alternatively, you can freeze them.
If you prefer a rare cooking, you can cook the patties for 8-9 minutes!
You can flavor the air fryer patties with sage, rosemary, oregano, or marjoram instead of thyme, or replace the Grana Padano with Pecorino or a mix of both cheeses.

