name:
Fried chicken and sourdough waffles with guacamole
ingredients:
Sourdough starter: 1cup(200 g)
Flour: 5.5oz(150 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp(8 g)
Baking soda: 1pinch
Salt: ½tsp(2.5 g)
Granulated sugar: 1tbsp(15 g)
Eggs: 1- Large
Vegetable oil: 4tbsp(52 g)
Milk: ¾cup(175 g)- whole
Vanilla extract: - Optional, to taste
Maple syrup: - To taste, as needed
Cornstarch: ½cup(60 g)
Flour: ½cup(65 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(5 g)
Salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Water: ⅓cup(80 g)- Iced
Chicken Tenders: 1lb(500 g)
Vegetable oil: 4cups(500 ml)- for frying
Avocado: 1- Medium sized
Salt: 1pinch
Cilantro: - Chopped, to taste
Lime: 1- small, cut in half
Green Onions: - To garnish, as needed

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Prepare the guacamole by cutting in half the avocado and removing the pit. Scoop out the pulp with a large spoon and place it into a plate.
Add salt and herbs if using. Mesh it down with a fork adding a few lime drops at a time, until desired consistency. It will take about 2 to 3 tsp of lime. Use more if needed.
When done, cover the guacamole sauce with clear wrap, on contact to prevent oxidation. Refrigerate until needed.
Guacamole can be prepared 2 days in advance and refrigerated.
This recipe makes about twelve 4" waffles (2 per person). If your iron makes bigger waffles, consider one per person.
To make the batter mix all the ingredients in a large bowl until no lumps are visible.
Scoop the batter into the waffle iron and cook following the manufacturer instructions.
Keep waffles warm in a 200°F oven, until all the batter has been used.
In a large bowl mix the cornstarch and the flour, add salt and baking powder.
Add the egg and whisk to incorporate while adding water one tablespoon at a time. The consistency should be the same of a lava flow.
Pat dry the chicken and place it in the same bowl as the batter. Mix well until all the chicken is coated.
Bring a deep and narrow pot with the oil to 350°F and fry the chicken on medium-high heat until the internal temperature reaches 165°F and the outside is deep golden honey color. Remove chicken from oil and place them onto a paper towel to absorb the excess fat.
Repeat with all the tenders.
To assemble the dish: place two small waffles (or a large one) on a plate. Spoon a dollop of guacamole over it and then arrange a piece of chicken or two on top. Drizzle with maple syrup if desired and garnish with green onions to taste.
The cooked waffles can be frozen and re-heated in a toaster. No need to thaw.
Frozen waffles keep for up to 3 months.
The extra chicken can be refrigerated and re-heated in the air fryer for about 7 minutes to 165°F.
Refrigerated chicken keeps for 3 or 4 days maximum.

