name:
Pappardelle shrimps and asparagus
ingredients:
Egg pappardelle pasta: 8oz(250 g)
Asparagus: 14oz(400 g)
Shrimps: 7oz(200 g)- peeled tails
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Yellow onions: 1- small
White wine: 4tbsp(60 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 7tbsp(100 g)
Chives: 2tbsp- finely chopped
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Spring is here, bringing our tables to life with all the colors and flavors of seasonal vegetables. Asparagus is one of our favorites, and their distinctive flavor makes them the perfect accompaniment to eggs or shellfish, emphasizing their characteristic aroma. Here we present you with a refined pairing for a creamy and delicious first course: pappardelle pasta with shrimps and asparagus. Once boiled, the asparagus is blended to make a velvety condiment that envelops the pasta and shrimps in a vortex of irresistible flavor! If you love asparagus, try also these recipes:
To prepare pappardelle pasta with shrimps and asparagus, start by cleaning the asparagus: cut off the bottom and peel the lighter colored and tougher part . Boil the asparagus whole in a special asparagus pot for 5-10 minutes , with the tips out of the water . Don't cook for too long as overcooked asparagus loses its consistency; the cooking time depends on the size of the asparagus.
Remove the asparagus from the pot and cut half of the stalks into slices ; leave the tips to one side. Use the remaining half of the asparagus to create a sauce: blend in a mixer with a ladle of cooking water , to make a creamy mixture .
In the meantime, finely chop the onion , dissolve 2 tablespoons of butter in a non-stick pan , add the finely chopped onion and leave to brown for around 3 minutes on a medium flame. In the meantime, bring a saucepan filled with water to the boil, for cooking the pasta.
Add the peeled shrimp tails , cook for a few minutes and add the white wine . Simmer, reduce and then add the sliced asparagus .
Incorporate the sauce and the cream , salt, pepper to taste and cook on a moderate flame. In the meantime, cook the pasta for around 4 minutes, or for as long as it says on the packet .
Drain the pasta and save the cooking water. Add the pappardelle pasta to the sauce , followed by the asparagus tips you left to one side ; sauté for a few moments and add some cooking water if necessary.
To finish, flavor with the finely chopped chives . Your pappardelle pasta with asparagus and shrimps is ready : serve nice and hot .
Pappardelle pasta with shrimps and asparagus can be stored in the refrigerator in a sealed container, for a couple of days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you want to prepare a lighter version, replace the butter with olive oil for searing the vegetables and use fish broth instead of the cream for flavoring the dish.

