name:
Chocolate cream tiramisu
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: ¾cup(120 g)
Egg yolks: 6
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Ladyfingers: 8
Coffee: 1 ⅓cup(300 g)
Sugar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
A classic dessert among the most beloved and that everyone agrees on! Tiramisu is a real spoonful delight, a skillful alternation of layers of mascarpone cream and ladyfingers dipped in coffee. In this version, we propose chocolate tiramisu, adding high-quality dark chocolate to the cream, which gives more texture and flavor. A delicious version that will even more stimulate the desire for sweets and make the dessert moment even more enjoyable, especially if served in pretty single-portion glasses!
Check out these other tasty variations of classic tiramisu:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the chocolate tiramisu, start by melting the dark chocolate: chop it finely , then melt it using a double boiler, being careful not to let water come into contact with the chocolate (alternatively, you can melt it in the microwave, stopping to stir every 2-3 minutes until it's fully melted). Stir to ensure it's completely melted and once done, transfer it to a bowl and let it cool.
Meanwhile, separate the egg yolks from the egg whites and add the sugar to the yolks, then whisk with an electric mixer to create a frothy and light mixture . You can use the remaining egg whites to prepare delicious meringues or ladyfingers.
Work the mascarpone cheese with beaters, then add it to the mixture of whipped eggs and sugar , mix again with the beaters to obtain a dense cream . When the chocolate has cooled down, add it to the cream .
When the cream is ready , put it in the refrigerator while you continue with the preparation. Prepare the coffee with the moka and pour it into a low and wide bowl ; dissolve the sugar inside (if you prefer, you can omit it) and let it cool down.
Split each ladyfinger in half and dip it in coffee on both sides , then place two halves at the base of the glass and pour in the chocolate mascarpone cream ; you can also use a disposable pastry bag to create layers of cream. Continue by dusting with unsweetened cocoa powder, then add another layer of coffee-soaked ladyfingers and cream.
Once ready , you can dust with some unsweetened cocoa powder and serve your chocolate tiramisu !
Keep the chocolate tiramisu refrigerated for a maximum of 1-2 days.
They can also be frozen for about 1 month.

A crunchy touch to your tiramisu? You could add small dark chocolate shavings between each layer!

