name:
Lemon tiramisu
ingredients:
Potato starch: ¼cup(40 g)
Cake flour: ⅓cup(40 g)
Sugar: ⅓cup(60 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Lemon peel: 2- of  organic lemons
Sugar: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste
Mascarpone cheese: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ⅔cup(150 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Sugar: 2(20 g)
Lemon juice: 1
Lemon peel: to taste- of  organic lemons

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 12 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time of the ladyfingers

instructions:
Tiramisu is the quintessential Italian dessert, which has made our cuisine famous abroad. Let's discover together the lemon tiramisu, a fresh and citrusy version! The simple ingredients are definitely the secret to the success of the classic tiramisu: ladyfingers (better if homemade), mascarpone cream , and coffee make it so special. Today, we have "shaken up" the original recipe by creating a tiramisu with fresher notes, without eggs, only with whipped cream and mascarpone. If, like us, you are lovers of lemon desserts, this version of the timeless and inimitable dessert will also surprise you! For your tiramisu, choose the best lemons, organic untreated, because only a quality ingredient and all your love will allow you to achieve an unbeatable result!
Check out these other tasty variations of classic tiramisu:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the lemon tiramisu, the first thing you need to do is make the ladyfingers. Separate the eggs (you'll need 1.7 oz of yolks and 3.3 oz of whites); transfer the yolks into the bowl of a stand mixer. Add half of the sugar slowly and begin to beat the yolks and sugar at medium speed. As soon as they become foamy, add the grated zest of two untreated lemons and continue to work them until they are well whipped .
Keep the beaten egg yolks aside and whisk the 3.3 oz of egg whites, gradually adding the remaining sugar (4-5) when they have slightly swelled. Once finished, sift the flour into the mixture with the yolks
and the potato starch . Gently mix with a spatula from the bottom to the top , and as soon as you have obtained a lump-free mixture, add the whipped egg whites, always working gently with the spatula from top to bottom .
Gently mix until you obtain a smooth and foamy mixture ; then transfer it into a pastry bag equipped with a smooth tip and use it to create sticks approximately 3'' long on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . With these amounts, you will obtain 20 sticks.
Dust each ladyfinger first with granulated sugar and then with powdered sugar . Then bake the ladyfingers in a preheated static oven at 390°F for about 10-12 minutes. Once cooked, take them out of the oven and let them cool completely.
In the meantime, take care of preparing the lemon tiramisu cream. Firstly, transfer the mascarpone cheese into a bowl and work it with a spatula to soften it. Then, in another bowl, whip the fresh liquid cream together with the sugar . At this point, gradually add the whipped cream and sugar mixture to the mascarpone cheese and mix with a spatula from the bottom to the top to combine the two components.
Then add the grated zest of an untreated lemon and mix again to combine everything . Transfer to a disposable pastry bag without a nozzle and refrigerate.
Now you can prepare the syrup for the ladyfingers: pour the lemon juice , sugar , and water into a bowl. Mix everything together.
At this point, prepare 4 jars. If the ladyfingers are shorter than the jars, simply cut off a small piece and use them to alternate with the layers of cream. Quickly soak the ladyfingers and arrange them in a circular pattern, pressing them against the edge of each jar .
Once you have covered the entire inner rim , resume with the cream and pipe it into the center of each glass with a pastry bag until it is about half full . Lightly soak the remaining pieces of ladyfingers in the syrup
and place them in the center of the small glass . Top with more cream and garnish with grated lemon zest. Your lemon tiramisu is ready to be enjoyed !
Store the tiramisu in the fridge covered with plastic wrap for a maximum of 2 days. Alternatively, you can freeze them.
You can further scent the lemon cream by adding some freshly chopped mint.

