name:
Vegan tiramisu
ingredients:
Soy cream: 1 ⅔cup(300 g)
Brown sugar: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Tofu: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Potato starch: 1 ½cup(70 g)
Cake flour: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ⅔cup(120 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Rice milk: ½cup(140 g)- at room temperature
Baking powder: 1tbsp(12 g)
Coffee: 1cup(250 g)- (espresso)
Dark chocolate: ⅓cup(60 g)- (dark chocolate curls)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + refrigerator resting time

instructions:
Are you looking for a vegan dessert to finish off your dinner in style? The vegan tiramisu is just the dessert for you! It's a unique alternative to the classic and traditional tiramisu, made without eggs or mascarpone. When you dig your spoon in, instead of the typical ladyfingers, you'll find a sponge cake base made with olive oil, which gives it a delicate aftertaste. These soft layers soaked in coffee alternate with a fluffy cream, also prepared without animal derivatives, but made with tofu, made frothy thanks to the addition of vegan cream. These delicious tiramisu cups, served in pretty single portions, are finally topped with a cascade of dark chocolate curls, which give a crunchy and colorful note to the dessert. Are you curious? All you have to do is put on your aprons and bring this dessert to the table!
For other tasty variations of classic tiramisu :
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the vegan tiramisu, start by making the base. Pour olive oil into a bowl, add brown sugar , and mix until almost completely dissolved . In a separate bowl, sift the flour and cornstarch .
Add the yeast and gradually incorporate the mixture of powders into the oil mixture; whisk together to avoid lumps . While continuing to mix, also add the room temperature rice milk .
Mix the compound well and pour it into a 7 inch cake pan lined with parchment paper (7-8). Bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F (180°C) for about 45 minutes (or at 320°F/160°C for about 35 minutes if using a fan oven). Once ready, remove the base from the oven and let it cool at room temperature .
In the meantime, prepare the cream. Pour the tofu into a blender and blend it until it becomes creamy; also add the brown sugar and blend again until the sugar has blended with the tofu . Put the mixture you have obtained into a large bowl .
Split the vanilla bean lengthwise and scrape out the seeds using a knife. Add them to the tofu-based mixture , then whip the vegan cream and gradually fold it in with a spatula using a bottom to top circular motion, so as not to deflate the mixture . Transfer your cream to a pastry bag without a nozzle, which you can pierce with a hole, and store it in the refrigerator.
Once the base is cold, slice it into approximately 1/2 inch thick pieces . Then, place 2 slices side by side and use a cookie cutter of the same diameter as the small cups to cut out disks . Use the freshly prepared disks to line the base of 4 small cups with a capacity of 250 g and soak them with a spoonful of not too hot coffee .
Retrieve your pastry bag from the refrigerator and create a first layer of cream ; continue by placing another layer of sponge cake and pour another teaspoon of coffee .
Finish off your small cups with a final layer of cream , then decorate the surface by distributing curls of dark chocolate ; refrigerate for at least 20 minutes. After the necessary time has passed, serve your vegan tiramisu nice and cold .
Keep the vegan tiramisu covered with plastic wrap in the refrigerator for a maximum of 3-4 days. Alternatively, once you have assembled your individual cups, you can choose to freeze them.
Try making a version of this cream by flavoring it with cardamom or other spices. Additionally, for a more summery version, you can use a fruit syrup to soak your cake disks.

