name:
Chicken Marsala
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1lb(400 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 0.66lb(280 g)
Marsala wine: ½cup(100 ml)
Parsley: 1tbsp(10 g)- freshly chopped
Flour: to taste- for flouring
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 ml)
Salt: to taste(3 g)
Black pepper: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Chicken Marsala is the best recipe for cooking a very soft and tasty chicken breast quickly and easily. There are many recipes for Chicken Marsala, today we prepare chicken breast enriched with champignon mushrooms to obtain a single dish with a rich and inviting sauce.
Marsala is a fortified wine from Southern Italy widely used in the kitchen for its versatility which gives the chicken an unmistakable aroma as well as incredible softness. The mushrooms with their full-bodied and fragrant flavor complete this recipe perfectly.
If you want to impress your guests with a simple but super tasty dish, this Chicken Marsala is perfect for you. To make it you can use mushrooms of your choice: if you love delicate flavors choose button mushrooms, if you prefer strong tastes you can choose porcini mushrooms or you can also use mixed mushrooms.
Chicken Marsala with mushrooms is quick and easy to prepare, perfect for both lunch and dinner, accompanied with mashed potatoes , roasted or baked potatoes .
If you like chicken , you can't miss these recipes:
Discover more delicious Chicken recipes and elevate your cooking game!
Pour 1 tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil into a pan, then add a clove of garlic cut into slices. When garlic is golden, add champignon mushrooms.
Leave to flavor for a few minutes, then add chopped fresh parsley. Season with salt and ground black pepper.
Stir and continue cooking over low heat for 10 minutes.
Remove the mushrooms from the pan but leave the cooking juices.
Flour chicken breast on both sides.
Pour into the same pan where mushrooms were cooked, heat up and then add chicken breasts. Cook on both sides until chicken is browned.
Pour Marsala into the pan, lower the heat and turn chicken breast several times until it is well flavored and golden brown.
Add cooked mushrooms, mix and continue cooking to add flavor (3-4 minutes).
Serve Chicken Marsala immediately, sprinkling it with chopped fresh parsley.
You can replace chicken breast with pork or veal.
If you can't find fresh mushrooms, you can also use frozen ones.
To cook evenly and in a short time, the chicken breast must be thin. If you don't find the chicken breast thin, you can beat it with a meat tenderizer or a rolling pin.
Good side dishes to serve with Chicken Marsala are: roasted potatoes, Jasmine rice, parmesan risotto, noodles, green beans, asparagus, fried potatoes.
You can keep the Chicken Marsala closed in an airtight container for 2 days in the fridge.

