name:
Strawberry tiramisu without eggs
ingredients:
Strawberries: ¾cup(115 g)- for the puree
Strawberries: 2- whole
Ladyfingers: 8
Lemon juice: 3tbsp(45 g)
Powdered sugar: ⅓cup(30 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(200 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(50 g)
Lemon zest: to taste
Strawberries: 4- whole

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Inspired by the most beloved spoon dessert, the eggless strawberry tiramisu is a fresh and light reinterpretation perfect to sweeten your spring menus. The irreplaceable ladyfingers , the protagonists of the traditional tiramisu , are soaked in a fragrant lemon syrup and flavored with strawberry puree, alternating with layers of delicious mascarpone cream . This single-serve delight is the perfect recipe for those who are intolerant to eggs or prefer to avoid consuming raw eggs or simply don't like them! The eggless strawberry tiramisu, a variation of the already fresh version of strawberry tiramisu , will make you look good even to those who are not very familiar with cooking: few ingredients and easy preparation will allow you to serve a refined, elegant, and delicious dessert...
Check out these other tasty variations of classic tiramisu:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the eggless strawberry tiramisu, start by washing the strawberries under running water. Then take about 3/4 cups of them (making sure to set aside 6 whole strawberries for garnishing and layering). Remove the stems and leaves , cut them into small pieces . Transfer the strawberry pieces to a blender, add 3 tbsp of lemon juice .
Add 1 cup of powdered sugar and blend everything until you obtain a creamy and homogeneous puree , which you will then use to soak the ladyfingers. Now move on to the cream: pour the fresh cream into a bowl and beat it with electric beaters
When it starts to thicken, gradually add 50g of powdered sugar . Once finished, soften the mascarpone cheese with a spoon, then add it to the whipped cream, stirring very gently from the bottom to the top to avoid deflating the cream . For optimal results, it is recommended to first mix a tablespoon of mascarpone cheese into the whipped cream to obtain a smoother mixture, and then gradually add the remaining mascarpone cheese and mix gently. Flavor it with grated lemon zest .
Transfer the cream obtained into a pastry bag with a smooth nozzle , take 4 glass cups with a capacity of 180g, pour a first layer of mascarpone cream on the bottom . Then take the ladyfingers, cut them to fit the size of the cup, then dip the ladyfingers into the previously prepared strawberry syrup
and place them in glass cups . Now chop 2 of the strawberries that were set aside into small pieces and distribute them on top of the ladyfingers . Finish off the cups with a layer of mascarpone cream .
To garnish, take the remaining 4 strawberries, make cuts lengthwise on each strawberry without removing the stem to create a fan-like effect to open in each glass cup. Place each open strawberry to decorate the glass cups . Your delicious eggless strawberry tiramisu is ready to be enjoyed !
The strawberry tiramisu without eggs can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days, covered with plastic wrap. It can be frozen on the day it was prepared, well-covered with clear plastic wrap. Before consuming, it should be thawed in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours prior to serving.
To make your syrup even more aromatic, add a sweet liqueur of your choice like Grand Marnier or limoncello to the strawberry puree!

