name:
Colomba tiramisu
ingredients:
Colomba: 1 ¼cup(160 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Orange juice: ⅓cup(75 g)
Orange peel: 1
Eggs: 3
Grand Marnier liqueur: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Dark chocolate: 3tbsp(30 g)
Sugar: ⅓cup(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Colomba is a type of Italian Easter cake similar to panettone. It has a dove-like shape, hence its name, as "colomba" means dove in Italian. It's typically made with flour, eggs, sugar, butter, and candied fruits, and often topped with almonds and sugar glaze. It's a popular dessert during the Easter season in Italy and can be found in many bakeries and supermarkets.
As often happens during holidays, there is always some leftover dessert. For Easter, we suggest a colomba tiramisu, a tempting variation of one of the most beloved desserts, the classic tiramisu , where the ladyfingers are replaced with toasted and soaked colomba cake discs in an orange juice and Grand Marnier flavored syrup. The delicacy of the mascarpone cream harmonizes all these flavors, enhanced by dark chocolate flakes and the scent of orange zest. Don't throw away any leftover colomba cake or chocolate Easter eggs, as they can be used to prepare this spoon dessert or an elegant semifreddo. Recycling Easter sweets has never been more delicious!
If you want to try other delicious variations of the most beloved spoon dessert, take a look at these recipes:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare colomba tiramisu, start by slicing the colomba . Then, using a cookie cutter with a diameter of 3 inches (a glass will work fine if you don't have one), cut the colomba into discs and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
At this point, bake them for 10 minutes at 320°F (160°C), in order to toast them, flipping them halfway through cooking . Meanwhile, prepare the cream: separate the yolks from the whites into two containers and, with the help of a whisk, beat the yolks together with the sugar .
Once you have obtained a clear and fluffy foam , gradually add the mascarpone with the beaters still running ; when the mixture is nice and foamy, add the grated orange zest and lightly mix with a spatula.
In the other container, using clean beaters, beat the egg whites until stiff peaks form , then gently fold them into the mixture of egg yolks and mascarpone, mixing from the bottom to the top so as not to deflate the cream .
Cut the orange in half and squeeze it , then pour the juice into a container with a strainer , in order to filter it carefully and not have any pulp residues in the mixture. Collect the juice in a bowl, pour in the Grand Marnier , and mix well with a spoon.
Grate the chocolate onto a cutting board and set it aside. Now move on to preparing the colomba tiramisu; take some small cups with a diameter of about 3 inches and pour a thin layer of cream into each one . To make this easier, you can transfer the mascarpone cream to a pastry bag. Next, place a crispy colomba disc in each cup on top of the cream .
With the help of a teaspoon, soak the layer of colomba cake with orange juice syrup, add another layer of cream , and sprinkle generously with dark chocolate flakes .
Repeat the same process again, alternating the toasted colomba disc soaked with orange syrup and the cream; finish with grated chocolate flakes . Keep the cups in the refrigerator for at least an hour so that the colomba tiramisu can set before serving!
The colomba tiramisu cups can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of two days, covered with plastic wrap.
Instead of Grand Marnier, try using another liquor of your choice! Or, you can also make a non-alcoholic version by using only filtered orange juice as the soaking liquid.

