name:
Ricotta tiramisu
ingredients:
Eggs: 1- medium, room temperature
Sugar: 3tbsp(40 g)
Cake flour: ⅓cup(40 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Egg yolks: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Water: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ⅔cup(150 g)
Powdered sugar: 2tbsp(15 g)
Coffee: ⅓cup(70 g)
Sugar: ¾tbsp(10 g)- to dust the cups and the ladyfingers
Butter: to taste- to butter the cups
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 2 hours of cooling in the refrigerator

instructions:
Mascarpone, coffee, and ladyfingers: three ingredients for a unique and inimitable dessert, tiramisu ! Who hasn't brought it to the table at least once? Soft, fluffy, and with the unmistakable aroma of coffee, it pleases everyone! Today, however, we propose an alternative version: ricotta tiramisu. An equally creamy variant that sees the addition of cow's milk ricotta instead of the more common mascarpone. Also, the satisfaction of making ladyfingers at home, fragrant and genuine, soaked in coffee to alternate with the layers of ricotta cream, is a contributing factor. We are sure that the ricotta tiramisu will enter the list of your alternative tiramisus!
Check out these other tasty variations of classic tiramisu:

Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare ricotta tiramisu, start by making the ladyfingers. Take a medium egg (at room temperature) and separate the egg white from the yolk: you should obtain 1 and 1/4 tbsp of yolk and 2 tbsp of egg white. Pour the yolk and 2 and 1/2 tbsp of sugar (taken from the amount of sugar needed to make the ladyfingers) into a bowl, then whisk them with an electric whisk until you get a foamy mixture .
Separately, in another bowl, beat the egg whites with the remaining sugar , using the same beaters (previously cleaned thoroughly), until stiff peaks form . Gradually fold the beaten egg whites into the egg yolk and sugar mixture prepared earlier, stirring from bottom to top to avoid deflating the mixture .
At this point, sift the flour directly into the bowl with the egg mixture and mix again from bottom to top to avoid deflating the mixture . Now transfer the mixture into a pastry bag with a smooth tip diameter of 0.6 inches .
So, only butter the base of 4 ramekins with a diameter of 3.5 inches and a height of 2.5 inches , and sprinkle with a little granulated sugar . Then, make the ladyfinger base for your tiramisu: create a layer on the bottom that is about 0.4 inches thick .
Then lightly grease a baking sheet and line it with parchment paper and make the ladyfingers which will be the middle layer of the tiramisu. Make 4 of about 2.7 inches in length . Dust the ladyfingers you have made with the remaining granulated sugar and the base of the ramekins . Bake both the bases and the ladyfingers together on the same baking sheet, on the middle shelf of the preheated static oven at 356°F (180°C) for 15 minutes. Remove from the oven and take out the ladyfingers using a spatula , then leave the bases of the ramekins to cook for another 5 minutes.
After the necessary time has passed, also take out the ramekins from the oven and let them cool. Meanwhile, prepare the coffee with the moka and let it cool. In the meantime, prepare the cream that you will make with the pate-à-bombe: in a saucepan, pour the sugar, add the water , lightly stir to moisten the sugar, then heat the syrup over moderate heat, being careful to insert a food thermometer to monitor the temperature, which should reach 250°F (121°C). In the meantime, in a bowl, pour the 2 and 1/2 tbsp of egg yolks needed for the cream (the yolks of about 2 medium eggs) and work them with the beaters .
As soon as the syrup of water and sugar reaches 250°F (121°C), pour it in a thin stream into the egg yolks while keeping the beaters running. Continue beating the mixture until it has completely cooled down and becomes clear and frothy.
Now sift the ricotta cheese with a fine mesh sieve to make it smoother and gradually add it to the mixture. Mix it with the beaters until it is fully incorporated .
At this point, beat the fresh cream with electric beaters (previously cleaned well) and gradually add powdered sugar . Once the cream is whipped, incorporate it into the ricotta cream .
Transfer the mixture obtained into a pastry bag with a smooth nozzle of 0.6 inches diameter and place it in the refrigerator. Everything is ready to compose the ricotta tiramisu: take your ramekins with the ladyfingers base, brush them with cold coffee using a kitchen brush , then fill them with a layer of cream, filling up to half of the ramekins . Firm up the tiramisu in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours.
After the firming time has passed, take the ladyfingers biscuits, dip them in coffee, and place them on top of the cream . Cover the ladyfingers with dollops of cream ; you can refrigerate for an additional hour to further stabilize the cream, or you can dust your ricotta tiramisu with bitter cocoa powder and serve them right away!
You can store the ricotta tiramisu in the refrigerator for 2-3 days covered with plastic wrap. You can prepare the sponge cake bases and ladyfingers the day before if you prefer, keeping them covered with a cloth outside the fridge. You can freeze the ricotta tiramisu for about 1 month.
If you like, you can flavor your coffee with liquor such as rum or Grand Marnier. You can also add some orange zest to the ricotta cream to give it some fragrance.

