name:
Flourless chocolate ricotta cake
ingredients:
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Potato starch: ⅓cup(50 g)
Eggs: 3- large
Dark chocolate chips: 3.5oz(100 g)- mini
Vanilla extract: ½tsp(2.5 ml)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Flourless chocolate ricotta cake is the perfect recipe if you want to prepare a dessert in minutes. It's such a simple recipe that you can make while you're already cooking something else. There are several versions of Ricotta and Chocolate Cake , today we prepare flourless chocolate ricotta cake, more moist and creamy and also suitable for those who are gluten intolerant. Flourless chocolate ricotta cake is perfect for breakfast, for a delicious snack or to round off a family lunch on a sweet note. It has a compact but soft texture and a delicate flavor that melts in your mouth. The perfect dessert if you are looking for a recipe to prepare in a few minutes, with simple ingredients and without using mixer.
Other cakes you can make with ricotta cheese are:

Beat the eggs and sugar for a few minutes with a hand or electric whisk until the mixture is high, whitish and frothy.
Incorporate the potato starch and vanilla, mixing at moderate speed, until completely absorbed.
Pour in ricotta cheese and mix.
Add the chocolate chips and spread them evenly throughout the mixture with a spatula.
Pour the mixture into a 9-inch diameter, buttered and floured cake pan (use starch if you are gluten intolerant).
Bake in a preheated oven at 340 F for about 50 minutes.
Leave to cool before removing from the mould. Decorate with icing sugar.
You can keep flourless chocolate ricotta cake at room temperature, covered, for about three days. However, if the outside temperature is warm, it is best to store it in the refrigerator.
We recommend beating ricotta cheese with a hand whisk for a few minutes to soften it before adding to the dough, cake will be fluffier.
Instead of vanilla, you can add orange or lemon zest to the dough.
You can choose between dark or milk chocolate chips.
Flourless chocolate ricotta cake cooks in about 50 minutes. Before removing it from the oven, check it: if it is still raw but dark on the top, cover with aluminum foil and cook for a few more minutes.
You can taste cake simple with a dusting of powdered sugar and mini chocolate chips or make it extra delicious and serve with vanilla ice cream or whipped cream.

