name:
Five spice tiramisu
ingredients:
Mascarpone cheese: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Natural plain yogurt: ½cup(100 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Coffee: 2tbsp(30 g)
Spices: 1tsp- Chinese five-spice blend (Szechuan pepper, cinnamon, cloves, fennel seeds, star anise)
Ladyfingers: 8
Coffee: 1cup(250 g)
Digestive biscuits: 1cup(100 g)
Peeled almonds: ½cup(50 g)
Hazelnuts: ½cup(50 g)
Macadamia nuts: ½cup(50 g)- peeled
Chocolate: to taste- some shavings

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
If you love spicy flavors, this sweet recipe is for you! We were inspired by the great tradition of tiramisu and thought to challenge your taste buds with a dessert that will surely surprise you! We are talking about the five-spice tiramisu: a fresh base of mascarpone and yogurt meets the famous Chinese spice mix with Szechuan pepper, cinnamon, cloves, fennel seeds, and star anise. This combination will give a boost of energy to your taste buds, sending them into ecstasy, or to be more precise, directly to the East! So if you are ready to embark on this new experience, all you have to do is prepare the five-spice tiramisu with us!
And if you are looking for other tasty variations of classic tiramisu, check out:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the 5-spice tiramisu, start with the cream. In a bowl, pour the mascarpone, yogurt , room temperature coffee , and sweeten with sugar .
Finally, season with the 5-spice blend . Mix well with a whisk until all the ingredients are well combined .
So transfer it into a pastry bag without the tip and put it in the freezer for a bit . Move on to the crumble. In a food processor, add the cookies , almonds ,
hazelnuts , Chinese spice mix , and Macadamia nuts .
Operate the blades until you have obtained a crumbly and slightly coarse mixture . Then arrange the glasses and move on to the composition. Squeeze a little cream onto the bottom of the glass , then dip the ladyfingers broken into 2 or 3 parts for a few moments .
Place them in the glass until you create a layer on which to add more cream . In total, use 2 ladyfingers per glass. Finally, garnish the top with a spoonful of crumble
and some chocolate shavings scraped directly from the chocolate block with the help of a blade . Then arrange them on the surface of each glass and your 5-spice tiramisu is ready to be enjoyed .
If you like, you can store the five-spice tiramisu in the refrigerator for a maximum of 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you can't find the Chinese spice mix to prepare the five-spice tiramisu, you can try making it yourself by mixing Szechuan pepper, cinnamon, cloves, star anise, and fennel seeds.

