name:
Scotch Eggs
ingredients:
Eggs: 4- large
Pork sausage: 1lb(500 g)- Ground venison meat or beef 80/20 work as well
All spice: ¼tsp(2 g)- ground
Salt and Pepper: to taste
Panko: 2cups(300 g)- (or any  white breadcrumbs)
Eggs: 3- Large
Flour: 1cup(125 g)
Vegetable oil: 1tsp(5 g)
Salt: 1pinch
Red onions: 1- medium
Water: ½cup(125 ml)
Salt: ½tbsp(5 g)
White wine vinegar: 4tbsp(50 ml)
Apple cider vinegar: 4tbsp(50 ml)
Sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)
Black peppercorn: to taste
Fresh garlic: 2cloves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Scotch Eggs in the air fryer! Such a quick, leaner, delicious way to enjoy an old favorite. This dish was the brainchild of "Scotts and Sons", a British eatery in the 1800's. Eventually the dish (which originally utilized fish paste for the coating) morphed into what we have known to love. Its name as well, turned Scott into Scotch. In the larger version, Italians make meatloaves stuffed with eggs, probably another modification to the original recipe. It is, however, impressive that such a simple dish has survived centuries, crossed oceans, and adapted to the times, and evolving kitchen technologies.
If you liked the Scotch eggs recipe, you could also try:

Bring eggs to room temperature before boiling.
Partially fill a small casserole with water and bring to boil. Place the eggs, one at a time, on a slotted (perforated) spoon and slowly lower it into the water. Repeat with remaining eggs. Once all the eggs are in, set a timer for 6 minutes.
While the eggs boil, prepare a bowl with ice and some water.
Right at the 6 minutes mark, remove the eggs from the stove. Using the same perforated spoon place them in the bowl with ice and water. Gently move them around. The goal here is to cool the yolk as fast as you can to keep it runny. Add more water to cover the eggs and ice if needed.
While the eggs cool, prepare the pickled onion: in a small casserole mix the water, vinegars, spices, salt and sugar. Bring to boil.
Meanwhile slice the onion into 1/8" slices, or to your taste.
Place the onion in narrow but tall container or bowl. Pour the boiling liquid over the onion and set aside to cool.
Now retrieve the eggs from the water. Pat dry and place them in the refrigerator.
Cover the container with the onion, and refrigerate, as well.
The pickled onions will be ready after a minimum of only 30 min of brining!
Prepare the breading: have 3 dishes ready, in one you will place the flour, in one the eggs beaten with oil and if you like a pinch of salt. In the third dish you will place the Panko breadcrumbs. Set aside.
Peel all the eggs, set aside.
Mix the ground sausage with salt, pepper and spice if using. I use a hand held beater to break it down further and ensure a soft consistency. Divide the meat into 4 equal balls.
Working on a flat surface, oil your hands and flatten out one portion of the meat. About 1/4" thickness.
Dredge one egg in flour, gently shake the excess and place it in the center of the raw meat patty.
Working with lightly oiled hands, totally encase the egg in meat. The egg should not be visible.
Coat in the beaten eggs then dredge in Panko. Press lightly to shape. Repeat the last two steps and make sure the meat and breading are firm, and compact.
Place the egg over an oiled coffee filter, or a piece of parchment paper and repeat with the remaining eggs.
Once all the eggs are ready, spray them lightly with olive oil.
Pre-heat air fryer to 375°F (190°C) in the "Roast" mode.
Place the Scotch eggs in the basket in a single layer, spaced at least 3" from each other. Bake 2 at a time to ensure browning.
Cook for 12 to 15 minutes rotating them every 5" by moving the parchment paper/coffee filter. Do not touch the Scotch eggs or might crack.
Let cool a few minutes before slicing.
Serve the Scotch eggs with mustard and pickled onion drained from the brine. Enjoy!
The Scotch eggs are best the day they are prepared, but once cooked you can quarter them and serve them cold, even.
Cooking the eggs the day before will make them easier to peel. Also, making the pickle onion the day before will impart a better flavor. However, it is not mandatory.
On coffee flter: we use small unbleached coffee filters lightly oiled in the air fryer. No, they don't burn. They keep the mess abay. In addition in this case, protects the meat from going through the cracks of the bottom screen. Makes also removing the eggs a breeze.
Pickled onion: in the remote chance you have leftovers, use them with a charcuterie board, or add it as a condiment for your cheeseburger!
While the recipe for Scotch eggs is fairly simple, there are some little tricks that will help you cook them to perfection:
- Do not overcook the eggs when boiling them. Use old eggs, and yes, they will be hard to peel (soft) so plan ahead.
- Ice the eggs right after boiling. It will stop the cooking process and will guarantee the picture perfect yolk.
- Flour the eggs before wrapping them in the meat, to avoid cracks.
- Add a splash of oil to the egg coat. Will make them stick to the breadcrumbs better.
- Double coat! Makes a harder shell, and prevents cracking.
- Finally, work the meat. A food processor or hand held beater will work to create a more pasty mix which will leave less chances for developing cracks.

