name:
Pistachio tiramisu
ingredients:
Mascarpone cheese: 1 ⅓cup(300 g)
Egg yolks: 2 ¾tbsp(40 g)- (about 2)
Sugar: ⅓cup(80 g)
Sesame oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Pistachios: ⅓cup(40 g)
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)
Ladyfingers: 8
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste
Coffee: ⅓cup(70 g)
Ground pistachio: 1 ¼tbsp(10 g)
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)- room temperature

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note +2 hours of cooling in the refrigerator

instructions:
The classic tiramisu always satisfies everyone when it comes to spoon desserts! Today we want to tantalize you with a rich and extraordinary flavored variation: pistachio tiramisu! This fruit is much loved in the kitchen and is used to create many recipes , both sweet and savory. So we've gathered all its flavor in a homemade paste, perfect for enhancing the classic mascarpone cream ! But don't worry, the typical ladyfingers soaked in coffee won't be missing! Are you ready to immerse yourself in this pistachio version? And if you are looking for new variations of tiramisu, try also:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare pistachio tiramisu, put the pistachios in a blender and blend them until they are reduced to a powder, then gradually pour in the sesame oil and continue blending until you obtain a cream . Prepare the coffee with a moka pot and let it cool down.
To pasteurize the eggs: put a pot with a thick bottom on the stove, pour in the water and sugar , bring the syrup to a boil while monitoring the temperature with a food thermometer. When the temperature reaches 239°F (115°C), start beating the egg yolks separately with an electric mixer .
When the syrup reaches 250°F (121°C) , remove it from the heat and pour it slowly into the bowl where you started whisking the egg yolks . Keep whisking at low speed until the mixture cools down and becomes clear and foamy, this will take around 10-12 minutes. Then add the mascarpone cheese while still whisking with the beaters.
Finally, add the pistachio cream , keeping the beaters running until it is fully combined . Now, cut the ladyfingers in half .
Pour the coffee prepared with the moka into a low and wide bowl . Then, dilute it with 30 g of room temperature water. Everything is ready to make the tiramisu: take 4 glasses with a capacity of 140 ml each, and using a piping bag, squeeze the cream onto the bottom to create a first layer . Continue by dipping two halves of ladyfingers into the bowl with coffee and water
and then placing them inside the glass, creating the second layer. Continue by squeezing more cream , dust the surface with bitter cocoa , and then continue with another layer of ladyfingers
then another layer of cream , and finally finish with bitter cocoa and chopped pistachios . Let it cool in the refrigerator for a couple of hours. The pistachio tiramisu is ready to be enjoyed !
The pistachio tiramisu can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 2-3 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can prepare the cream the day before and assemble the tiramisu 2-3 hours before serving.
To make a perfect pistachio cream, we recommend adding sesame oil little by little until you get a thick consistency.
As an alternative to mascarpone, you can use ricotta.
If you can't find sesame oil, you can use sunflower or peanut oil.

