name:
Garlic bread with dip
ingredients:
Bread: 8slices- French or soft white baguette, 1/2" thick
Butter: 8tbsp(110 g)- good quality, unsalted
Fresh garlic: 4cloves- minced
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ¼cup(30 g)- aged, good quality, finely grated
Honey: 2tsp(10 g)
Parsley: 4tbsp(20 g)- fresh, minced
Salt and Pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(125 ml)- (or more, to taste)
Fresh garlic: 2cloves- minced
Rosemary: to taste- fresh, minced
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 4tbsp(30 g)- aged, finely grated
Red Chili Flakes: ¼tsp- (or to taste)
Parsley: 2tbsp(10 g)- fresh, finely chopped
Lemon zest: ¼tsp- (or to taste)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- grated
Parsley: to taste- fresh, minced

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 7 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Garlic bread, the ubiquitous dish that gets along with anyone, in any occasion, on any table: from a holiday dinner, to a football game party, to a classic Sunday supper. Not to mention those Italian themed meals! This garlic bread, never met anyone who didn't appreciate it, and its dip as well. Yes, the yummy olive oil concoction gives an extra boost of flavor to the diners who want more garlic, or just a chance to dip the fresh bread, for those who want to skip the toast. You can use the dip to enhance the garlic bread slices, just as they come out of the oven: the aroma permeates the whole house. Alternatively, one could use both the compound butter and dip to dress some vegetables (yes, finally the Brussels sprouts will taste good) or even to garnish a side dish of mashed potato , or prime ribs. The leftover butter and dip can be used to dress a roasted chicken, too! In conclusion, this is a super simple recipe for garlic bread with dip that will make everyone happy on more than one occasion.
Enjoy these additional recipes too:

The dip is super easy: just mix all the ingredients in a medium size bowl.
Taste for salt or to balance the acidity with more lemon zest.
Set aside for up to 4 hours or refrigerate.
Make the spread: in a medium size bowl, using a fork, work the butter until is soft and creamy.
Add the remaining ingredients and keep working until they all incorporated and no butter streaks are visible.
Taste for salt and pepper and set aside, covered with clear wrap.
Pre-heat oven to 400° F.
Place 8 medium slices of bread on a stainless baking sheet. No lining is necessary.
Divide the butter equally, and spread the mix on top of each slice making sure to cover also the crusty edges.
Bake for about 10 minutes checking the bread after 8 minutes.
Using a spoon, drizzle some of the dip on the fresly baked slices if you like.
Transfer the slices to a serving dish and sprinkle with additional grated Parmesan or parsley, or both.
Serve at once!
The dip can be refrigerated for up to a week or frozen for up to 3 months.
The butter fairs well in the refrigerator, however, the garlic flavor will intensify excessively after a few days.

If you want to broil the cheese and have a more intense flavor: after baking the slices for 5 minutes, turn the broiler on LOW. With the oven door slightly open broil until the cheese starts to bubble and turns lightly golden.

