name:
Orange tiramisu
ingredients:
Mascarpone cheese: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Egg yolks: ¼cup(56 g)
Orange peel: 1
Water: ¼cup(50 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(175 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(125 g)
Ladyfingers: 6
Dark chocolate: ¼cup(50 g)
Orange juice: ¾cup(180 g)- (about 2 oranges)
Sugar: 1 ¼tbsp(15 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste
Orange peel: to taste
Sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Not a fan of coffee but can't wait to taste a good tiramisu ? Today we propose a perfect winter recipe, orange tiramisu! The classic cream based on mascarpone and egg yolks is enriched with whipped cream to make it smoother and with orange zest to make it even more fragrant! Between each layer, a cascade of chocolate will make this tiramisu truly irresistible. To make it, we have chosen to use couple cups, to share during a romantic dinner. If you prefer, you can also serve this tiramisu in smaller portions or in a single dish!
Also try our other variations:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the orange tiramisu, first prepare the cream. In a saucepan, pour 1/2 cup (125 g) of sugar, water , and turn on the heat. As soon as the syrup reaches a temperature of 240°F (115°C), pour the egg yolks into the bowl of a stand mixer and begin to beat them with a whisk, adding the remaining 1/4 cup (50 g) of sugar . As soon as the syrup has reached a temperature of 250°F (121°C)
pour it slowly into the stand mixer and continue to beat at medium speed until the mixture is lukewarm . Transfer the mascarpone cheese to a bowl and beat it with a whisk to make it softer. Then pour in the egg yolk mixture
and whisk until obtaining a smooth cream . Add the grated orange zest and mix to incorporate it .
Whip the fresh liquid cream from the fridge , it should be soft and shiny. Add it to the mascarpone cream and gently mix it with a spatula to incorporate it .
Cover the cream with plastic wrap and refrigerate until ready to use. Roughly chop the chocolate and set it aside. Squeeze the oranges to obtain 3/4 cups (180g) of juice. Transfer it to a bowl and add the sugar .
Stir with a spoon until the sugar is completely dissolved . Then transfer the cream to a piping bag, there is no need to use a nozzle, simply cut the tip with scissors. Take two glass containers and make a first layer of cream on the bottom .
Split the ladyfingers in half and soak two halves in orange juice . Arrange them inside the glass
And cover with the cream. Add some chocolate shavings , place two more ladyfinger halves soaked in orange juice on top and continue with another layer of cream and some chocolate .
Continue with the final layer: place two soaked ladyfinger halves , top with the cream and dust with cocoa powder . Store in the fridge and in the meantime, work on the decoration. Using a peeler, make some strips of orange zest ;
coat them in granulated sugar and use them to decorate your tiramisu . The orange tiramisu is ready to be served .
The orange tiramisu can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
You can flavor the orange juice (used to soak the ladyfingers) with Cointreau or another liquor.

