name:
Orange scaloppine
ingredients:
Sliced veal: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (4 large slices or 8 small ones)
Oranges: 2
Butter: 1.75oz(50 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 8 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare orange scaloppine, first take care of the meat: if the slices are a bit thick, lightly flatten them with a meat tenderizer to make them more uniform and tender , then cut them in half . Now, focus on the oranges: grate the zest of the 2 oranges and set it aside.
Squeeze one of the oranges : you should obtain about 3 oz of juice. Peel the remaining orange and separate the segments with a small knife . Place the butter in a large pan and let it melt over low heat.
Meanwhile, flour the meat slices one by one, removing excess flour by gently shaking them . When the butter is completely melted, slightly raise the heat and place the slices in the pan . Let them brown for 1-2 minutes, then turn them over .
Brown the slices on the other side for 1-2 minutes, then pour in the orange juice . Season with salt and pepper .
Add most of the grated orange zest ; mix well to dissolve the cooking juices and turn the slices a couple of times to flavor them. Continue cooking over low heat for a few minutes, until the sauce thickens and becomes creamy; it will take about 8 minutes in total. At this point, all that's left is to plate your orange scaloppine: transfer them to a serving dish, add the sauce , and a few thyme leaves .
Finish with some of the reserved orange zest , the orange segments , and serve your orange scaloppine hot !
Orange scaloppine can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days at most.
For an even more fragrant and tasty result: use blood oranges — juicy and aromatic — and replace all-purpose flour with rice flour or cornstarch: the cooking sauce will be lighter, and the sauce will be more velvety.
If you prefer, you can strain the orange juice before pouring it into the pan.

