name:
Tiramisu with dry cookies
ingredients:
Coffee: 0.85cup(200 g)
Eggs: 6.35oz(180 g)- (about 3)
Sugar: 8tbsp(100 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 17.65oz(500 g)
Cookies: 7oz(200 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 6

instructions:
Tiramisu with dry cookies is a variation of the all-time favorite dessert, made with classic breakfast cookies. There are countless versions of this timeless dessert to enjoy: with pasteurized eggs or eggless , with ricotta, with strawberries instead of coffee, and even with spices or alternative biscuits to the traditional ladyfingers , like the dry cookies we propose here. You will find the typical aroma and the inevitable sweet and velvety cream that pleasantly contrasts with the bitter cocoa. The cookies will give a slightly crunchy note, and just a few more layers will be enough to obtain a generous and delicious slice of tiramisu!
Discover other delicious variations of tiramisu:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare tiramisu, start by preparing the coffee, so it will be cold when you need it. Then, separate the egg whites from the yolks carefully , remembering that, to beat them well, the egg whites must not have any trace of yolk. Then, beat the egg yolks with electric beaters, adding only half of the sugar .
As soon as the mixture becomes clear and foamy, and with the beaters still running, you can add the mascarpone cheese, little by little . Once all the cheese has been incorporated, you will have obtained a dense and compact cream; set it aside. Clean the beaters well and move on to beating the egg whites, adding the remaining sugar little by little . You must beat them until stiff peaks form ; you will achieve this result when, turning the bowl upside down, the mass does not move.
Take a spoonful of egg whites and pour it into the bowl with the yolks and sugar , stirring vigorously with a spatula to temper the mixture. Then proceed to add the remaining part of the egg whites, little by little, mixing very gently from the bottom to the top . At this point, assemble the tiramisu: soak the cookies in the cold coffee .
Spread 6 cookies on a rectangular plate , then spread two spoonfuls of the cream with a spatula . Once smooth, place another six coffee-soaked cookies on top .
Then pour another two spoonfuls of cream . Continue in this way until you obtain 6 layers of cookies. Leave the cream covering the top layer and sprinkle it with cocoa . Store the tiramisu in the refrigerator until you are ready to serve it .
You can store tiramisu for a maximum of a couple of days, well covered, in the refrigerator. It can be frozen for about 2 weeks in the freezer.
You can pasteurize the eggs by following our recipe for mascarpone cream .

