name:
Chicken Parmesan
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.5lbs- sliced in half lengthwise
Breadcrumbs: 1cup
Panko: ½cup
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1cup- grated
Parsley: ¼cup- fresh, finely chopped
Fresh garlic: 1tbsp- finely chopped
Eggs: 2- large
Fine salt: 1tsp
Vegetable oil: - for frying
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp
Onions: 1cup- finely chopped
Tomato sauce: 2cups
Garlic: 1clove
Tomato paste: 2tbsp
Fine salt: ½tsp
Italian seasoning: 1tsp
Mozzarella cheese: 1cup- cut into small cubes
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ¼cup- grated
Parsley: 1tbsp- fresh, chopped
Basil: a few- leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Chicken Parmesan is classic comfort food hearty, gooey and satisfying: a casserole of breaded chicken covered with tomato sauce and, of course, tons of melted cheese. It's easy, simple, and classic. When you taste how good it is, it may seem like a lot of work needs to go into it but this dish comes together in just about 30 minutes. It's simple, and it also requires ingredients that you probably already have a lot in your pantry. Whether you serve it on its own or with a plate of pasta this is a meal that makes for a wonderful dinner that the whole family will enjoy. Learn how to make the most tender breaded chicken topped with hearty tomato sauce, melted cheese, and lots of herbs.
Find out our other Parmigiana recipes:
If you love chicken recipes, you'll want to make them too:
Chicken piccata
Preheat oven to 425°F.
Divide each chicken breast in half, cover with plastic wrap, and flatten gently for ease of cooking (about 1/2-inch thick).
In a medium bowl whisk eggs. In a differerent plate, mix together breadcrumbs, Panko, grated Parmigiano Reggiano, fresh parsley, garlic and salt.
Dip chicken breasts into eggs and then in mixed breadcrumbs pressing.
Heat the oil in a large skillet until the hot oil sizzles (about 2 minutes).
Fry the chicken in hot oil for 4-5 minutes per side until golden brown.
Put to dry on absorbent paper.
Heat 2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil in a pan.
Add finely chopped onions and cook for 2 minutes, they must become soft.
Put the tomato sauce, garlic, tomato paste, Italian seasoning and salt, stir and continue to cook until it starts to simmer.
Lower the heat to low and simmer for 5 minutes, then remove from the heat.
Arrange the chicken breasts in an ovenproof dish, coat each breast with 2 tablespoons of the sauce, top with the shredded mozzarella and sprinkle with grated Parmigiano Reggiano. Before baking, sprinkle with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil.
Bake in a preheated 425°F oven for 10 minutes until the cheese is golden brown and melted.
Before serving, garnish with chopped fresh parsley.

We recommend storing Chicken Parmesan in the fridge in a container for no longer than 2 days. When reheating use the oven to help revive some crunch in the chicken.
Chicken to be fully cooked must have an internal temperature of at least 165°F (measure if you have cooking thermometer).
Serve Chicken Parmesan alone or over a plate of spaghetti, or with some crusty bread for major dipping and soaking up of all sauce.
We recommend to use panko mixed to classic breadcrumb to make the chicken extra crispy and season with garlic and parsely chopped.
If you want a crispier chicken breast, let the fresh sliced mozzarella drip or use the chopped mozzarella, you don't want to risk a soggy panko coating due to the extra moisture content in fresh cheeses.

