name:
Pizza Crackers
ingredients:
Mozzarella cheese: ½cup- Good quality, low moisture, shredded
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ¼cup- Aged, grated
Butter: 8oz- Unsalted, cubed
Flour: 1cup- AP unbleached
Oregano: 1tsp- dry, crushed
Salt: 0.4tsp- kosher
Pimientos: 1tbsp- Peppers, canned, finely chopped

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 12 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note Plus refrigeration time

instructions:
Pizza Crackers or Italian Snacksters are an "oldie but goodie".
From the old cookbooks from the 70s these seem definitely a blast from the past: easy preparation, readily available ingredients and short baking time.
I bet they will be your favorite go-to cracker in any grazing or charcuterie board; the fact that their taste is reminiscent of Pizza doesn't hurt.
Great alone, with sliced meats, olives or just a good glass of Pinot Grigio, the Pizza Crackers are here to stay.
Cheers!
Looking for more savory snacks? Check out these recipes:

Gather all the ingredients, except for the butter, in the bowl of a food processor. Pulse a few times to blend and self sift.
Remove the lid of the food processor and scatter the diced and chilled butter over the flour mix.
Close the lid, and pulse until the butter has been incorporated into the flour mix, and the dough forms a ball around the blades.
Will take about 1 minute.
Carefully remove the blades from the food processor bowl, and transfer the dough to a flat surface area.
Divide the dough into 2 parts, and roll each one in a cilinder about 5 inches long.
Wrap each one with a piece of parchment paper or wax paper.
Once each log has been wrapped, roll it again on the board to ensure a smooth outer surface. Alternatively, you can press its sides and create a rectangle.
Repeat with both logs, and tranfer them to the refrigerator for at least 2 hours.
Pre heat oven to 375°F static.
Work with one log at a time, and cut 1/4" thick slices.
Place the slices into a lined baking sheet (no need to grease it) and poke each slice twice with a fork.
Transfer the baking sheet to the oven and bake for 12 to 15 minutes.
The Pizza Crackers will be golden brown on the bottom but not burnt around the edges.
Cool on the baking pan before removing, or will break.
Repeat with remaining log.
The Pizza Crackers will last a week in the fridge in an airtight container. Bring back to room temperature before serving.
You can freeze the unbaked slices of dough: freeze them on a tray, then store them into a zip lock bag once hardened. Bake from frozen adding a few minutes to the baking time. About 15 minutes total time.

