name:
Baci panteschi
ingredients:
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Eggs: 1(55 g)- (around 1)
Fine salt: 1tsp(3 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 6 ⅔cups(1 kg)
Sugar: ⅔cup(130 g)
Cinnamon powder: to taste
Vegetable oil: to taste- for frying
Powdered sugar: to taste- for garnishing

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Where else could baci panteschi come from if not Sicily? Rich, sumptuous, fried and with ricotta cheese, just like the famous Sicilian cannoli ! Typical of the Island of Pantelleria, these sweets consist of two crisp pieces of pastry made from a simple batter which is plunged in hot oil using a special iron to create their special shape. Both fritters are held together in an inseparable embrace by a morish ricotta cheese cream flavored with cinnamon. Baci panteschi will be a treat for the palate and the eye!
To prepare baci panteschi, start by making the batter: place the flour, the salt , the egg and the milk in a bowl .
Stir with a whisk to form a smooth batter . Heat abundant oil in a pan and prepare the cream in the meantime: place the ricotta cheese in a bowl, add the sugar and stir with a spoon.
Now add the cinnamon and stir some more . Place in a smooth-tipped pastry bag and leave in the refrigerator. When the oil reaches a temperature of 338-356F, place the iron for making baci panteschi inside it and heat it for around a minute .
Dab with some absorbent paper and immerse in the batter without going over the edge. Immerse the iron in the hot oil once more .
Wait 1-2 minutes until the fritter is nice and golden . You won't need to dip the iron in the oil again to fry the other fritters because it will already be hot; bear in mind that the next fritters will cook in around a minute. Drain the fritters with a skimmer and place them on a tray lined with parchment paper . Don't worry if the fritters remain stuck to the iron, when they're nice and golden you can remove them with a spoon and place them straight on the tray. Fry all the fritters and leave them to cool.
Take the pastry bag and use it to fill the first fritters : add a circle of cream along the outer edge then one on the inside .
Place another fritter on top of it to close it like a sandwich . Fill the rest of the baci panteschi and garnish with abundant powdered sugar before serving them !
Once filled, baci panteschi can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days at most.
Add some chocolate drops to the ricotta cream or if you prefer, you can enrich it with some whipped cream! If you're not a fan of cinnamon, you can replace it with lemon zest!

