name:
Winter choco-coffee
ingredients:
Instant coffee: 1tbsp(15 g)
Milk: ½cup(130 g)
Heavy cream: 3tbsp(40 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 1tsp
Dark chocolate: ½cup(100 g)
Roasted salted peanuts: ⅔cup(70 g)
Brown sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Brown sugar: ⅓cup(90 g)
Water: 1tbsp(15 g)
Butter: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 1 pieces
Note + time to whip the cream

instructions:
You will never have tasted a more special drink than our winter choco-coffee ! One word to describe it? A-M-A-Z-I-N-G! A layer of peanut crunch, salted caramel, a creamy hot chocolate made with dark chocolate and coffee and a cloud of whipped cream. What else? Well, prepare several cups, not all for you ... to share with those you love most, to spend a pleasant moment with special snack during the harsh winter days!
For the winter choco-coffee , start with the crunch as it will be the first layer of your hot chocolate: pour the brown sugar in a saucepan , and melt without stirring . When it turns amber, add the peanuts .
Mix and caramelize. Once ready, spread everything on a tray lined with parchment paper and let it set. You can break the peanut crunch and create the first layer .
Go on to prepare the salted caramel by first pouring in a soucepan brown sugar first, and water . Let it boil without stirring, then add the butter and melt, stirring with a hand whisk .
Add a pinch of salt , mix,and pour the cream , mix again and after a few seconds, turn off the heat. Pour in a cup .
For the coffee hot chocolate, pour the milk and cream in a saucepan and heat up. Add the bitter cocoa and the soluble coffee .
At last, add the dark chocolate chips . Stir for a few minutes until you obtain the perfect creamy texture and pour in the cup .
Complete with whipped cream and decorate with a few crumbs of crunchy peanuts !
It is advisable to consume it as soon as it is ready.
The cream can be whipped a few hours in advance.
The peanut crunch can also be prepared the day before.
Instead of peanuts you could use peeled almonds.
Instead of salted caramel, how about peanut butter?

