name:
Two color heart cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 5cups(500 g)
Butter: 1cup(300 g)- (cold from the refrigerator)
Egg yolks: 3- (cold from the refrigerator)
Brown sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 7tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 36 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Love is when to halves perfectly complete one another. The giving of flowers and chocolates is a timelessly romantic gesture, but what we need is something that pays tribute to a perfect union. On Valentine's day what could be better than some homemade sweetness? Two color heart cookies are your unmistakable love message...a plain and cocoa dough set in the sweetest of puzzles of poetry and taste. Two different colored hearts hold each other tight in a delicious embrace, bringing to life unique, fragrant and original homemade cookies. Two color heart cookies are the perfect gift for all the special people in your life: simply place them in a bag and tie with a nice red ribbon!
To prepare two color heart cookies , start by placing the cold butter in the bowl of a planetary mixer fitted with a leaf hook . Add the brown sugar and the salt . Stir at a moderate speed into a homogeneous and creamy mixture.
Add the yolks and mix to thoroughly stir them in. Add the flour and continue to mix until stirred in .
Place on a work top and knead for a few seconds by hand to make it more compact. Divide the dough in half and place one half in the planetary mixer. Add the cocoa
and knead with the leaf hook until absorbed . Now you have two doughs: a plain one and a dark one . Separately wrap them in plastic wrap and leave to rest in the refrigerator for an hour
Once this time is up, roll the plain dough out with a rolling pin until 0.4"-0.8" thick . Now roll the cocoa dough out to the same thickness . Use a 2.9" wide and 2.8" long heart-shaped mold to make the first cookie.
Press a smaller heart-shaped mold, 1.8" wide and 1.6" long, down on the heart-shaped cookie , to create a larger hollow heart and a smaller full one. Separate and keep both parts , because you'll need them soon.  Now do the same with the cocoa dough: make a heart-shaped cookie and then another one using a smaller mold .
Separate both just like you did for the plain dough . Now take a tray lined with parchment paper and place the larger cocoa heart-shaped cookies on it, and a white smaller cookie in the middle of each one to create the two color effect. Repeat with the larger plain dough hearts, by placing the smaller dark hearts in the middle of each one .
Continue until you use up both doughs . Bake the biscuits in a static oven preheated to 356°F (180°C) for 15 minutes on the lowest shelf. Poi then remove from the oven and leave the cookies to cool before moving them from the tray and serving .
Once baked the cookies can be stored in a tin for a week.
The dough (plain and cocoa) can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days. Alternatively, it can be frozen for around a month.

Flavor the cocoa dough by adding a pinch of peperoncino and the plain dough with some vanilla seeds!

