name:
Chocolate and raspberry pound cake
ingredients:
Almond flour: 1cup(125 g)
Butter: 1stick(125 g)
Sugar: ⅔cup(125 g)
Eggs: 3(125 g)- (2 large ones approximately)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 3tbsp(25 g)
Dark chocolate 55%: 0.5oz(15 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(3 g)
Butter: 1stick(125 g)- softened, room temperature
Raspberry jam: 7tbsp(65 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(90 g)- (W 170)
Potato starch: 5tbsp(40 g)
Sugar: 5tbsp(60 g)
Condensed milk: 4tbsp(60 g)
Eggs: 2(75 g)
Egg yolks: 3(50 g)
Whole milk: 2tbsp(35 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(5 g)
Food coloring: 1pinch- (red) optional
Dark chocolate 55%: 5oz(140 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 7tbsp(100 g)
Sugar: 1tbsp(15 g)
Wildflower honey: 2tsp(15 g)
Sugar paste: 1- red heart

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + resting times for the ganache (8 hours), for the dough (at least 30 minutes) and various cooling times

instructions:
Chocolate pound cake along with the yogurt one, are among the most classic home made desserts, but with this recipe you will turn it into a dessert fit for a master confectioner: let's prepare a delicious chocolate and raspberry pound cake ! The pastry chef Marco Pedron will show us how to prepare this masterpiece, with its balance of different flavors and consistencies: the tartness of raspberries, the softness of the chocolate dough and the creaminess of the ganache. The heart inside will win you over at first sight and will make someone very special fall head over heels with each bite of this chocolate and raspberry pound cake ... perhaps on Valentine's day!
To make chocolate and raspberry pound cake , start with the ganache: place the cream and the sugar in a saucepan , add the honey and simmer on a medium flame while stirring with a whisk
.
Place the coarsely chopped dark chocolate in a bowl, add the boiling cream in 3 goes and stir with a spatula until the chocolate melts entirely and the mixture becomes smooth and homogeneous . Place the ganache cream in a baking tray, snuggly cover with plastic wrap and leave it to crystallize at room temperature for 4 hours.

Now prepare the raspberry heart dough: place the soft room temperature butter in a planetary mixer with a leaf spatula, add the sugar , the condensed milk and the raspberry jam . If you want you can add a pinch of coloring for an enhanced effect. Switch the planetary mixer on at a medium speed and heat the milk in a saucepan in the meantime.

While the planetary mixer is working, gradually add the lukewarm milk , the eggs and the yolks . Continue stirring all the while until the liquids are fully absorbed.

In the meantime, sieve the powders and place them in a bowl, one at a time: the flour , the potato starch and the yeast for sweets .

Stir the powders together with a whisk and add them to the mixture in 2 goes , stirring vigorously with a spatula until homogeneous .

Line a 14.8"x9.8" tray with parchment paper, make sure it adheres well by using a little butter; add the batter and spread it out evenly with a spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven to 330°F (165 ° C) for around 15-20 minutes. Once baked, remove from the oven and leave to cool .

In the meantime, prepare the chocolate mixture: start by melting the butter and the chocolate; leave to cool until warm. Place the sugar in a bowl , add the melted butter and chocolate , then thoroughly stir with a spatula.

Once the mixture is homogeneous , add the previously beaten eggs and stir, then add the almond flour in 2 goes .

Sieve the cocoa and the yeast in a bowl. Delicately stir the powders together with a spatula . Leave the batter to rest for at least 30 minutes at room temperature (up to 2 hours), so that it does not rise too much during baking.

Once the raspberry sponge cake has cooled, turn it over and delicately remove the parchment paper , then cut into hearts using a 2.4"-2.8" mold . Use the mold to cut the heart shapes out in alternating directions so as to reduce the amount of leftover dough, then place them on a tray .

Now you're ready to assemble the sponge cake: take a paper mold that is roughly 8.1 inches long at the base and 9.1 on the surface (3.7 inches wide and 2.8 inches tall) and place the chocolate batter in a pastry bag without a nozzle. Cover the bottom of the mold with the chocolate batter , then place the raspberry heart in the middle part,leaving roughly enough room for a finger around the entire edge . Skewer the mold and the hearts with a wooden skewer on both sides so that they do not rise during baking .

Cover with the remaining chocolate batter, by filling the edges first and then the surface . Bake the sponge cake in a preheated static oven at 347°F (175°C) for 35-40 minutes. Once baked, remove from the oven and remove the skewers, then leave to cool .

Lastly, soften the ganache with a spatula and spread a thick layer on the sponge cake .

Smooth the ganache using an acetate sheet and decorate with a red sugar paste heart . Leave the ganache to crystallize for at least 4 hours, after which time your chocolate and raspberry pound cake will be ready to be served !

Chocolate and raspberry pound cake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, in a sealed container.
Freezing is not recommended.
When preparing the ganache adding the cream 3 times is recommended, which will help stir the fluids in better.
In this recipe it is best to use a spatula rather than a manual whisk, so that you stir less air into the mixture, which will result in a fuller-bodied consistency
If the room temperature is greater than 68-71°F (20-21°C) it is best to crystallize the ganache in the refrigerator; when you will be ready to use it you will find it is rather firm, so stir thoroughly with a spatula to soften.
It is very important to sieve the potato starch to prevent lumps from forming.
Instead of raspberry jam you can blend fresh raspberries and red currants with a dash of red coloring!

