name:
Seed crackers
ingredients:
Spelt flour: 1cup(130 g)
Whole grain flour: 4oz(120 g)
Sunflower seeds: 3oz(90 g)
Flax seed: 3.5oz(100 g)
Black sesame seeds: 3oz(90 g)
Sesame seeds: 6tbsp(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(150 g)
Water: ½cup(130 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Crackers are a great snack that can be enjoyed any time of the day: they are light, genuine, and can be flavored in a thousand different ways! Whether you prefer them crumbly or crispy, making them at home is simple, with lots of different flours and flavors, like these seed crackers ! We've decided to present a version that is different from the usual ones: enticing and delicious, wholesome and healthy. For these seed crackers we've used a mix of spelt and wholegrain flour, to which we have added all our favorite seeds: sesame, black sesame, sunflower and flax seeds, all rich in beneficial properties. The perfect blend for crackers that are delicious enjoyed on their own, or with some salted butter spread on them, or served with grilled vegetables. They are also perfect for enriching the bread basket in an original way.
Looking for more savoury crackers? Check out this old-but-gold easy recipe of Pizza Crackers !

To prepare seed crackers , place the flours and seeds in a large bowl: the wholegrain and spelt flours, then the sesame and black sesame seeds , the flax seeds and the sunflower seeds too.
Stir the mixture , add the salt and the extravirgin olive oil .
Stir to absorb, then add the water . Continue stirring with a wooden spoon, then by hand. Once the mixture is compact, divide it into 2 equal parts for baking in two separate batches. Place one half on a sheet of parchment paper , flatten by hand and cover with another sheet of parchment paper .
Now use a rolling pin to roll it out until it is 0.1 inches thick . Don't worry if it is irregular in shape. Place the rolled out dough on a 14"x11" tray and remove the upper sheet of parchment paper . Even it out for a more uniform surface: remove any excess dough in thicker areas and use it to fill our any thinner parts. Thoroughly flatten by hand so that you end up with a uniform rectangle.
Lastly, sprinkle with salt flakes to taste . Bake in a ventilated oven preheated to 355°F (180°C) for 13-15 minutes. Remove from the oven and cut into rectangles of whatever size you like . Here we've cut them into 3"x3.5" pieces, but choose according to your taste and tray: you can even break up the dough by hand to form irregular shaped crackers. Place back in the oven, this time for 4-5 minutes. Remove from the oven and leave the seed crackers to cool thoroughly .
We recommend a tin box as the best way to store seed crackers: in this way they'll keep for 4-5 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can vary both the amount and types of seeds to your taste, just be careful with chia seeds because unlike others they tend to alter the dough's consistency and may make it too soft. Adding them makes the crackers less crunchy and more crumbly in consistency, which many may prefer. To make this version, simply replace the 6 tablespoons of white sesame seeds with the same amount of white chia seeds and increase the amount of water to 0.8 - 0.85 cups of water. Initially the mixture will be soft: leave it to rest for at least 2 hours at room temperature, before baking as indicated in the recipe.
The oil can be replaced by an untoasted sesame oil.
In addition to salt flakes, we can enrich the surface of our crackers with aromatic herbs to taste.
Serve your crackers with some wild fennel butter : prepare it by softening some good centrifuge butter at room temperature, before stirring in some wild fennel, salt and pepper to taste. Wrap in parchment paper and place in the refrigerator, for a stick of flavored butter with a nordic taste, also perfect served with rye bread, eggs or salmon.

