name:
Smashed potatoes
ingredients:
Potatoes: 8- medium-small
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Lemon juice: 1
Chives: 8fili
Rosemary: 1sprig
Oregano: 1tsp- dry
Thyme: 1tsp- dry
Fine salt: 1tsp- level
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Looking for an alternative to the classic baked potatoes ? Here's a simple and original idea: smashed potatoes! Crispy on the outside and soft on the inside, they are cooked whole with the skin and seasoned with butter, lemon, and herbs. Their rustic and irregular shape is explained by the name itself: the potatoes, after being boiled whole, are roughly smashed one by one to achieve a uniform thickness. The second baking and the mix of aromas will do the rest! Ideal as a side dish for grilled meats and fish, smashed potatoes are so tempting that you won't resist eating them directly with your hands!
Also try these tasty potato recipes:

To prepare smashed potatoes, first choose potatoes roughly the same size, rinse them, and boil them starting from cold water for about 35-40 minutes from the moment the water boils . Meanwhile, melt the butter and let it cool slightly. Now prepare the emulsion: chop the rosemary and chives, and transfer them to a small bowl .
Add oregano , thyme , salt , and pepper.
Add the melted butter and the filtered lemon juice , then mix well .
Once cooked, drain the potatoes and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, spacing them apart. Gently smash them with the bottom of a glass .
Brush the smashed potatoes with the aromatic emulsion and bake in a preheated fan oven at 392°F . When they are nicely golden, take them out and serve your smashed potatoes !
Smashed potatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for a day. If you prefer, you can prepare them in advance and reheat them in the oven when serving.
Personalize the aromatic mix to your liking by adding, for example, some parsley or a pinch of chili pepper!
If you like strong flavors, you can flavor the melted butter with a clove of garlic.
Instead of a glass, you can use a meat mallet or a fork.
Does this preparation tempt you? Try the variant of oven smashed Brussels sprouts !

