name:
Thick and soft potato focaccia
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(400 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: ¾cup(100 g)
Potatoes: 10oz(300 g)
Water: 1cup(220 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(7 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Salt: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note +  leavening time (around 4 h in total)

instructions:
Potato focaccia is one of the best-loved focaccia recipes because it is characterized by a very soft and flavorsome dough. We present you with a special version: thick and soft potato focaccia ! In addition to its unique consistency, this soft focaccia also distinguishes itself due to its simple preparation. Unlike most leavened produce, no complex steps and long waiting times are required, in fact it can be prepared in just a few hours, even by those of us who do not consider themselves to be expert bread bakers! Served while still hot and fragrant, thick and soft potato focaccia is delicious enjoyed alone, or filled with your favorite ingredients: how do you like your best?
To make thick and soft potato focaccia , start by placing the potatoes in cold water, bring to the boil and cook until soft enough to be pierced by a fork . Drain the potatoes, leave to cool, mash them in a large bowl and add the flour .
Add the semolina too , the fresh crumbled yeast , then add half of the water and start stirring with a ladle.
After amalgamating the mixture, add the salt and gradually add the remaining water , kneading by hand all the while. Add the oil once the water is fully absorbed.
Knead the dough on a worktop for around 10 minutes . If it is too soft and sticky, leave to rest for 5 minutes, covered with a bowl. Fold the dough a few times, then form a smooth and even ball before placing it in the bowl greased with the oil; leave to leaven at room temperature for around 3 hours, or until it doubles in volume .
Once the leavening time is up , slide the dough into a lightly greased 16"x11" tray, without tipping it over . Spread the dough out by hand directly in the tray .
If the dough tends to retract, leave it to rest for a minute and then delicately spread it to cover the entire surface . Cover the tray with another tray or a damp cloth and leave to leaven for another hour. Once this time is up, season with the oil and press down with your finger tips to make the typical dimples . Add the salt flakes too .
Lastly, sprinkle with the oregano and bake in a preheated static oven at 428°F (220°C) for 30 minutes on the lowest shelf . Remove your tall and soft potato focaccia from the oven when golden, and serve it while still hot !
Thick and soft potato focaccia can be stored in a food bag for 2 days. Alternatively you can freeze it after baking, once thoroughly cooled.
For an even more enhanced cell structure, leave the dough to rest in the refrigerator over night; the next day remove it and wait for about an hour to bring it to room temperature, then proceed with the rest of the recipe.

