name:
Thick piadina romagnola
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 5cups(500 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(200 g)
Water: 4tbsp(60 g)
Lard: 7tbsp(70 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)- soft
Baking soda: ½tsp
Fine salt: 1tsp
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 1tbsp(10 g)
Brown sugar: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 5 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + resting time (around 10 minutes)

instructions:
We are all familiar with piadina, but what about thick piadina romagnola ? This is another traditional version that is made in just a handful of provinces. Unlike the classic recipe, this version includes milk and yeast. Both these ingredients are necessary for a softer consistency and greater thickness. To make it delicious and fragrant, we have chosen to use both butter and lard, but if you prefer you can use just one of these fats, replacing the other with the same amount, or perhaps try lard-free piadina. Thick piadina romagnola is great served with all kinds of fillings, from more classic options like ham, rocket and squacquerone cheese, to more unique ones!
To prepare thick piadina romagnola, place the flour 00, the instant yeast , the baking soda and brown sugar in a bowl.
Add the salt and stir the powders together with a fork . Now add the lard .
Add the soft butter , the milk and the water too .
Stir the ingredients with a spoon and as soon as the liquids are thoroughly absorbed , place the dough on a worktop and knead by hand .
You should end up with a smooth and homogeneous dough . Wrap in plastic wrap and leave to rest in the refrigerator for at least 10 minutes. Remove the dough and shape it into a loaf .
Divide the dough into 5 equal parts and roll into balls . Use a rolling pin and a sprinkling of flour to roll one of the balls out .
It should be 0.2-0.24 inches thick . Heat a non-stick pan and cook the piadina . Cook for around 2 and a half minutes, pierce the surface with the prongs of a fork so that it doesn't rise .
Turn the piadina over and cook for another 2 and a half minutes . Roll the next ball out in the meantime and repeat until you finish all the dough. As soon as you finish cooking each piadina, add it to the pile . The thick piadina is ready for filling or for enriching your bread basket!
Piadina can be stored in the refrigerator in a sealed container, for around 2 days. It can be frozen once cooked and cooled.
You could replace the butter and lard with half a cup of extravirgin olive oil.
You can also replace the milk with the same amount of water.

