name:
Chocolate and salted caramel cheesecake
ingredients:
Cookies: 5oz(150 g)
Dark chocolate: 3oz(85 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(400 g)
Dark chocolate: 10oz(300 g)
Powdered sugar: 7tbsp(50 g)
Isinglass: 0.25oz(5 g)
Heavy cream: 1cup(200 g)- plus a spoon for dissolving the gelatin
Sugar: cup(100 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(25 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 5tbsp(80 g)
Fine salt: tsp
Cookies: to taste- Chocolate and caramel

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note plus cooling times (ate least 1 hour)

instructions:
So easy to make and delicious to eat, cheesecakes are without a doubt one of the best-loved desserts ever! Baked, like the classic cheesecake, or unbaked with isinglass, like the version we present you with today. Chocolate and salted caramel cheesecake is undoubtedly one of the most delicious versions we've ever served! The base of this cheesecake is butter-free and thanks to the dark chocolate, the cookies will remain compact to create the same characteristic consistency. The cream is easy to make: ricotta cheese, melted chocolate, whipped cream and a little isinglass are all you need to make a firm cheesecake that will be easy to cut, yet creamily divine at the same time! If all this still isn't enough to win you over, wait for the final, irresistible touch: salted caramel, which remains soft and goes a treat with the chocolate. A unique and irresistible combination of flavors, thought up by none other than GialloZafferano!
If you love caramel, try these other delicious recipes:
For other cheesecakes:
To prepare chocolate and salted caramel cheesecake , start by making the base. Place the cookies in a mixer and blend them into a powder . Place them in a bowl and add the melted chocolate in the microwave or in a bain-marie
Add a pinch of salt and stir thoroughly until homogeneous . Place in a buttered 7" mold lined with parchment paper. Flatten by delicately pressing down with the back of a spoon .
Once the base is nice and flat , leave it in the refrigerator for 10 minutes and prepare the cream in the meantime. Soak the isinglass in cold water . Place the thoroughly drained ricotta cheese in a bowl with the powdered sugar .
Stir together with a spatula . Melt the chocolate in the same way as before and add it to the mixture . Stir until homogeneous .
Heat 1-2 spoons of cream in the microwave or a saucepan, then drain the isinglass and dissolve it in the cream, by stirring with a spoon . Add this mixture to the cream and stir carefully .
Now beat 0.75 glass of cream . Pour it into the mixture and stir thoroughly with a spatula .
Remove the cheesecake base from the refrigerator and pour the cream over it . Smooth the surface and leave it in the freezer for 30 minutes. Prepare the salted caramel in the meantime. Place the sugar in a saucepan and cook on a medium flame.
Leave the sugar to fully melt, rotate the saucepan every now and then, or stir with a wooden spoon . Add the butter as soon as the caramel turns amber, then lower the flame and stir. Add half a teaspoon of salt and stir some more. Bring to the boil and remove from the heat. Now add the cream, it is best if it is hot .
Stir thoroughly and leave to one side. Once the caramel sauce is cold, pour it over the cheesecake . Smooth the surface once more with a spatula .
Decorate with chocolate cookie pieces and caramel and leave in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours. Remove the cheesecake from the mold and place it on a plate , ready to be enjoyed!
Cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
You can replace ricotta with a different creamy cheese.
Choose whatever chocolate you love best, a classic or extra dark. If you love sweet flavors, then opt for milk chocolate.
No need to worry if lumps form after you add the caramel cream. Just heat it for a couple of minutes and stir with a wooden spoon.

