name:
Pasta with chickpeas and taleggio cheese
ingredients:
Ditalini: 11oz(320 g)
Precooked chickpeas: 2cups(400 g)- (drained weight)
Taleggio cheese: 9oz(270 g)
Whole milk: 3tbsp(50 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 3
Garlic: 2cloves
Rosemary: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
How can you turn a typical home comfort food, like pasta and chickpeas into a restaurant-worthy dish? With the recipe for pasta with chickpeas and taleggio cheese , for example! A creamy and refined version of this classic first course, garnished with a velvety and decisively flavored cheese sauce. Easy to make and highly presentable, pasta with chickpeas and taleggio cheese is suitable on all occasions, informal or important, and are a delicious idea for an original yet genuine menu!
To make pasta with chickpeas and taleggio cheese , start by draining the precooked chickpeas; place half in a bowl, add a little water and oil and blend into a puree using an immersion mixer .
Brown the rosemary and unpeeled garlic cloves in a saucepan, with a drizzle of oil . Smash the peeled tomatoes by hand , add a drop of water, then the whole chickpeas .
Cook for 5 minutes , then add the chickpea puree and stir. Add salt , pepper and cook for another 5 minutes.
Once this time is up, add the ditalini pasta and cook for another 10 minutes, adding water as needed and frequently stirring all the while .
Remove the rind from the taleggio cheese and cut it into small pieces , then place them in a saucepan. Add the milk and melt in a bain-marie, stirring with a whisk to obtain a smooth cream .
When the pasta is cooked, remove from the heat, add a drizzle of raw oil and stir. Arrange onto plates, with the taleggio sauce and a sprig of rosemary. Your pasta with chickpeas and taleggio cheese is ready to be served !
Pasta with chickpeas and taleggio cheese can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, in a sealed container. It is best to add the taleggio cheese sauce just before serving.
If you want you can season the taleggio cheese sauce with a pinch of pepper or nutmeg!
If you prefer to use dried chickpeas, soak them over night for at least 12 hours.

