name:
Pumpkin in oil
ingredients:
Delica pumpkin: 2lbs(900 g)- to be cleaned
Water: 1cup(300 g)
White wine vinegar: 1cup(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves
Bay leaves: to taste
Thyme: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Time to make some preserves! Have you ever tried making pumpkin in oil ? We're going to show you how to preserve this precious autumn vegetable in a jar. Before you get started, we recommend you choose a sweet and perfectly ripe pumpkin, so that you can enjoy all its goodness in the months to come, when it is no longer in season. Preparing squash in oil is easy, but just like with pumpkin jam, it is important you closely follow the instructions in certain steps, to ensure its correct preservation. You can enjoy pumpkin in oil as a side dish, served with a variety of delicious second courses: together let's discover how to preserve all its goodness, in a jar!
To prepare pumpkin in oil , start by making sure you use sanitized jars (follow the instructions by the Ministry of health on preparing home made preserves). Peel the pumpkin and remove the seeds inside . Once cleaned, you'll need around 1.1 lb of pumpkin. Cut into roughly 0.2 inch thick slices .
Dice the slices into 0.8 inch pieces . Place them in a saucepan with water and vinegar .
Bring to the boil and cook for around 4 minutes. Add the aromatic herbs , the finely chopped garlic , and cook for another minute. Thoroughly drain the squash using a colander .
Place the pieces on a clean cloth and leave to cool until warm. Now take 2 x 390 ml jars and fill each one with the diced pumpkin and aromatic herbs . Add a few pieces of garlic too .
Add some more pumpkin to fill the jars , then pour in the extravirgin oil to fully cover the squash . It is important you only fill the jars to 0.8 inches from the top.
Put the lid on and tightly shut . Immerse the sealed jars in a saucepan with cold water, up to the lid . Boil for 20 minutes then leave the jars to cool in the water. Once cold, make sure there is enough oil before you put them away, otherwise the jar must be reopened and topped up, in which case you will have to boil it again, like in step 17. Once ready and cooled, check a vacuum has been created by pressing down on the middle of the lid: if it doesn't make the "click-clack" sound then it is vacuum sealed . Now your pumpkin in oil is ready to be put away in your pantry!
Pumpkin in oil is best enjoyed a few weeks after preparation.
We recommend storing it for around 3-6 months in a fresh and dry place.
Once opened, the jars must be stored in the refrigerator, top them up with oil to cover the vegetable and finish within 3-4 days.
Instead of thyme and laurel you can use whatever aromatic herbs you like best: rosemary or sage will work a treat, for example! If you prefer you can salt the squash in step 7.
The home preparation of preserves and jams can present health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the necessary conditions and measures to guarantee the safety and suitability of food, which, on the contrary, industrial procedures are able to ensure in order to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to scrupulously follow food safety instructions to reduce risks, but one must always bear in mind that one can never achieve the same food safety as professionally produced preserves and jams. For the correct preparation of home-made preserves, we refer to the Italian Ministry of Health guidelines

