name:
Butter-free chocolate cookies
ingredients:
Eggs: 2
Sugar: ⅓cup(80 g)
Sunflower seed oil: ½cup(100 g)
Dark chocolate 50%: ¾cup
Dark chocolate chips: 3tbsp(30 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(260 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: ⅓cup(30 g)
Baking powder: ½tbsp(6 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Dark chocolate chips: ½cup(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 60 minutes resting time

instructions:
Ready for the latest addition to your cookie cookie jar? Say hello to these butter-free chocolate cookies . Do you think it is impossible to skip the butter and still make delicious chocolate cookies? Then you must try these ones: you'll discover they are just as delicious as traditional cookies! Indeed they are also enriched with chocolate drops, and the seed oil replaces the butter for the dough. These cookies are easy to make and are perfect as a snack, a sweet coffee break or an energy rich breakfast!
If you love cookies you can't miss these recipes:
To make butter-free chocolate cookies , finely chop the dark chocolate with a knife . Melt the chocolate in a bain-marie, stirring frequently all the while . Beat the eggs together with the sugar using a manual whisk .

Add the oil and stir it in . Add the melted chocolate and stir .
Stir the cocoa in too , then add the vanilla extract, the flour and the yeast . Finish with 3 tablespoons of chocolate drops and knead rapidly, first with a spoon and then by hand.
The dough will be rather soft , so leave it to rest in the refrigerator for 1 hour, covered with plastic wrap so that it firms up. Once this time is up, the dough will be firm and ready for use: break off walnut-sized pieces and roll each one in the palm of your hand . Shape cookies that are 0.88 to 1 oz in weight. Place half a cup of chocolate drops on a plate, gently press the balls down over them so that the chocolate drops stick to each side of the dough .
Line a tray with parchment paper and add the cookies . Bake the cookies in a static oven preheated to 338°F for 15-20 minutes, remove from the oven and leave to cool. When removed from the oven, the butter-free chocolate cookies will be soft but they will become crunchy and crumbly once cooled.
Butter-free chocolate cookies can be stored in a tin for a week. You can freeze the uncooked dough.
Store the chocolate drops in the refrigerator so they won't melt during baking.

