name:
Savory bread and vegetable cake
ingredients:
Stale bread: 8oz(250 g)
Potatoes: 12oz(350 g)
Pumpkin: 10oz(300 g)- (to be cleaned)
Borlotti beans: 2cups(300 g)- fresh (to be shucked)
Red onions: 4oz(120 g)
Sage: 5leaves
Water: 1cup(250 g)- hot
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you have any old bread then don't throw it away! It can be used in many recipes, including this savory bread and vegetable cake . Bread that has been in the pantry for 2-3 days is perfect for preparing canederli, bread balls, Old bread gnocchi or traditional Bread cake. Today we're going to discover a vegan no-waste recipe: nothing but bread and leftover vegetables from the refrigerator, which you can add your delicious and personal touch to, with any ingredients to hand. We enriched the old bread mixture with pumpkin, potatoes and pulses, for a delicious base that is then cooked like an omelette... an egg-free one, of course! Savory bread and vegetable cake is also an excellent way to sneak vegetables into dishes served to even the most reticent of children! Looking forward to making it?

To make savory bread and vegetable cake , start by preparing the ingredients: shuck the fresh beans , then peel and dice the potatoes . Clean and dice the pumpkin too . You'll need around 5.3 oz of shucked beans and 5.6 oz of pumpkin pulp.
Lastly, peel and thinly slice the onion . Place the onion in a pan with a drizzle of hot oil , then add the potatoes .
Add the pumpkin , the potatoes and stir for 3-4 minutes on a medium flame .
Season with the sage leaves , add salt, pepper and then pour the hot water in . Cook with the lid on for around 20 minutes on a medium-low flame, stirring occasionally .
In the meantime, dice the old bread , place it in a mixer and blend into crumbs .
Once the vegetables are cooked, remove from the heat and blend with an immersion mixer . Add the bread crumbs to the hot mixed vegetables and stir together .
Now heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the mixture and press down to smooth the surface . Cook for a few minutes on a low flame, just enough time to form a crust, then delicately turn the fritter over using a plate, and slide it back into the pan ; be careful as the consistency is rather soft. Cook for a few minutes on the other side too, after which you savory bread and vegetable cake is ready to be served while still nice and hot !
Bread and vegetable cake can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
Fresh beans can be replaced with precooked lentils or chickpeas.
If you prefer, you can skip blending the vegetables and add the bread diced: the important thing is that the mixture is hot so that the bread can soften easier.
You can enrich the bread and vegetable cake however you like, even with cheese, eggs and ham!

