name:
Roast chicken with potatoes and onions
ingredients:
Chicken legs: 1lb(600 g)
White onions: 0.66lb(300 g)
Potatoes: 1lb(500 g)
Lemons: 1
Rosemary: 1sprig
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: 1tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 20 minute marinating time for the chicken and 30 minutes for soaking the potatoes

instructions:
Roast chicken with potatoes and onions is a homely second course characterized by its rustic and timeless flavors! In addition to classic roast chicken legs, served with the all-time classic, roast potatoes, we've also added some flavorsome white onion rings, which will enrich the dish with an aromatic touch. With just 3 ingredients, you'll serve an appetizing version of roast chicken at your table!
To prepare roast chicken with potatoes and onions , place the chicken in a large bowl and add the salt , the lemon juice and the rosemary sprig .  Stir and leave the chicken to flavor for around 20 minutes.
Place the chicken on a tray lined with parchment paper, drizzle with extravirgin olive oil and roast in a preheated oven at 428° for 40 minutes on the medium shelf.  Peel the potatoes in the meantime .
Cut them into small pieces . Leave the potatoes in a bowl with water for 30 minutes to remove the excess starch. Drain and dry the potatoes .
Peel and cut the onion into roughly 0.2 inch thick slices , then add them to the bowl with the potatoes and season with the oil .
Season with salt and rosemary . Remove the chicken from the oven after cooking for 40 minutes .
Add the potatoes and onions . Roast in a static oven on the medium shelf at 428°F (220°C) for another 40 minutes. . Remove the roast chicken with potatoes and onions and leave to cool until warm before serving at your table .
Roast chicken with potatoes and onions can be stored in the refrigerator for one day. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of chicken legs, you can use chicken pieces too.
Lemon juice gives the chicken a golden color, if you prefer you can replace it with white wine.
The onions slices must be slightly thick otherwise they fall apart when baked in the oven.

