name:
Sacher fluffy pancake
ingredients:
Oat flour: 5tbsp(20 g)
Egg whites: 2(70 g)
Greek yogurt: 2tbsp(30 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2tsp(5 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(4 g)
Agave syrup: 2tsp(15 g)
Sunflower seed oil: to taste
Apricot jam: ¼cup(80 g)
Dark chocolate: 4oz(120 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 1 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Have fluffy pancakes won you over? Here's an even more delicious version: sacher fluffy pancakes ! The name is already a clue as to the deliciousness of this dessert inspired by the typical Viennese cake, a triumph of the most timeless and morish of pairings: apricot jam and dark chocolate, an irresistible mix you'll rediscover in this tempting and protein-rich version of traditional American pancakes, as soft as a Japanese fluffy pancakes. Looking for a really special breakfast or snack? Try our recipe!
You might also enjoy:
To make sacher fluffy pancakes , beat the egg whites in a bowl with a whisk until frothy . Add the greek yogurt and the agave syrup .
Add the oat flour , the cocoa powder and the baking powder .

Stir some more until homogeneous and lump-free . Grease a deep pan roughly 5" in diameter with seed oil and heat on the stove. Pour the batter in , cover with a lid and cook for around 10 minutes on a low flame.
Delicately turn the cicciopancake over and cook on the other side for another 10 minutes.  Once cooked, place the pancake on a plate and cut it in half .
Spread some apricot jam over it and close it . Chop the dark chocolate .

Melt the chocolate in a bain-marie or in the microwave and pour it over the sacher fluffy pancake , fully coating it , then garnish with chocolate shards and serve right away .
Fluffy pancake is best enjoyed freshly made. If any is leftover, store in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
To make sacher fluffy pancakes, use eggs and other ingredients.
Thoroughly grease the pan so that the batter does not stick to the sides.
Oat flour can be replaced with rice flour, and greek yogurt with plant-based yogurt.
Any left over yolks can be used to make an omelette.

