name:
Mini puff pastry pizzas
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8oz(230 g)- rectangular
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Tomato purée: 3tbsp(50 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 1oz(50 g)- diced
Oregano: to taste
Capers: 18
Anchovies in oil: 3
Taggiasca olives: 12
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 3
Marjoram: to taste
Cream cheese: cup(100 g)
Lemon peel: to taste- grated
Thyme: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Looking forward to drinks this evening? The perfect occasion for preparing mini puff pastry pizzas , a simple yet delicious starter! A fragrant puff pastry base, just waiting to be garnished with your favorite ingredients. We present you with these versions, two with and two without tomato, which will inspire you to create mini puff pastry pizzas that are different each time. Perfect for a birthday party, mini puff pastry pizzas are very easy and quick to make, a perfect idea even for less expert hands!
To make mini puff pastry pizzas , roll out the puff pastry sheet and cut it into roughly 1.2"x12." squares with a smooth cutter : you'll make 24 pieces. Place the squares on an oven tray lined with parchment paper in 4 rows of 6. Pierce the puff pastry with a fork and top the first 2 rows with the tomato puree .
Add some diced mozzarella to the first row , with a pinch of oregano. Now garnish the puff pastry squares in the second row with the capers and a piece of anchovy .
Garnish each puff pastry square in the third row with 2 olives and half a dried tomato . To finish, add a tuft of spreadable cheese on the puff pastry squares in the fourth row , and a grating of lemon peel .
Season with a grating of pepper and a few thyme leaves . Garnish all the puff pastry squares with a drizzle of oil .
Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C) for 20 minutes . Remove the mini pizzas when golden ; garnish those with the olives with a few marjoram leaves and those with the mozzarella with some more oregano. Leave to cool until warm and serve you mini puff pastry pizzas !
Mini puff pastry pizzas can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, in a sealed container. Before serving heat them in an oven at 302° for a few minutes.
If you prefer a more golden result, brush the puff pastry pieces with some beaten eggs before topping and baking.
You can create lots of different mini square pizza versions, by adding various ingredients!

