name:
Pandoro tiramisù with baileys
ingredients:
Mascarpone cheese: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)
Egg yolks: 5(78 g)- (medium, room temperature)
Baileys: ¼cup(60 g)
Coffee: ¼cup(60 g)
Baileys: ⅓cup(70 g)
Pandoro pastry: 0.66lb(300 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + 2 hours in the fridge

instructions:
Today we're preparing together a perfect dessert for the holidays: pandoro tiramisu with baileys , a really tasty variation of the classic tiramisu ! Instead of the typical ladyfingers we used pandoro slices, which will give the dessert a greater consistency. The cream is the usual one, the one we will never be able to do without, made with mascarpone and eggs, but with a special addition of the baileys liqueur that will make it unique! A perfect spoon dessert to prepare for Christmas or New Year's Eve, together with our stuffed pandoro and the typical zuccotto! If you're looking for a way to reuse scraps of leftover pandoro, this is the recipe for you!
If you are looking for other ways to use pandoro, have a look to the following recipes:
Check out these other tasty variations of classic tiramisu:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the pandoro tiramisu with baileys , start with the mascarpone cream. Pour the sugar and water into a saucepan, mix slightly and turn on the heat. Heat everything until it reaches a temperature of 250 °F (121°C), measure the exact temperature with a cooking thermometer ; if you don't have a thermometer, the syrup will be ready when small, white bubbles form on the surface. Just before reaching 250 °F (121°C), and therefore having reached around 239 °F (115°C), start beating the yolks with an electric whisk or using a planetary mixer.
When the syrup has reached 250 °F (121°C), pour it slowly over the yolks , continuing to whisk until completely cooled . Thus you will have the pate à bombe. In a bowl, lightly dilute the mascarpone with a spatula. Add the mascarpone to the yolk mixture little by little ,
mixing with the electric whisk , until it is completely incorporated . Pour half the baileys ,
mix gently , add the remaining liqueur and mix again .
Cover with plastic wrap and keep the cream in the refrigerator . Now prepare the coffee with the mocha, transfer it into a bowl , add the dose of baileys indicated for the syrup , mix and leave to cool. Cut the pandoro into slices about .5" (1 cm) thick .
Then cut each slice into 3 long strips . Now start composing the tiramisu: take a 15x8" (28x22 cm) mold and make a first thin layer of cream . Place the pandoro slices on top to fill it completely, you can cut small pieces and add them in the empty spaces .
Now using a kitchen brush, moisten the pandoro with the syrup previously prepared . Add a layer of cream, this time more abundant and make another layer of pandoro .
Wet the pandoro again with the brush , add the remaining cream and spread it well. Cover with plastic wrap and leave in the fridge for 2 hours.
Sprinkle the entire surface with bitter cocoa . The pandoro tiramisu with baileys is ready to serve .
The pandoro tiramisu with baileys can be kept in the fridge for 2-3 days.
If you prefer, you can prepare the tiramisu the night before, the result will be even better!
If you don't want to pasteurize the eggs you can use the cream of our classic tiramisu !

