name:
Pandoro tiramisù with wild berries
ingredients:
Pandoro pastry: 2slices
Berries: 0.5lb(250 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: ⅓cup(80 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Whole milk: to taste
White Chocolate drops: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pandoro tiramisù with wild berries is not only a delicious Christmas dessert, but also an excellent idea to use pandoro leftovers! The layers of pandoro alternate with a soft mascarpone cream and juicy berries for a colorful and scenographic result. Furthermore, the use of milk instead of coffee makes it suitable for even the smallest diners. Delight your guests with pandoro tiramisù with wild berries and let yourself be inspired to discover many other variations of the most loved Italian dessert in the world!
Discover also our classic pandoro tiramisù and other delicious recipes with pandoro:
For some variation of classic tiramisu , check out:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the pandoro tiramisù with wild berries , first separate the yolks from the whites . Pour the egg whites into a bowl and whip them until stiff with an electric whisk (2-3).
Put the yolks in another bowl and add the sugar , and mix with the electric whisk to obtain a clear and homogeneous mixture .
Add the mascarpone to the yolk mixture and mix everything with a spoon or a whisk. Add the whipped egg whites and mix with a spatula from the bottom up to incorporate them evenly .
Take the pandoro and cut 2 slices, 1" (2 cm) thick, by cutting them horizontally . Place the first slice in a 8" (20 cm) transparent bowl and brush it with a little milk .
Distribute half of the mascarpone cream on the pandoro slice , then add half of the berries, which you will have previously washed and dried . Cover with the second pandoro slice and brush again with a little milk.
Add the remaining cream and the remaining berries. Garnish with white chocolate drops . Your pandoro tiramisù with berries is ready to be served !
Pandoro tiramisù with wild berries can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 3 days, covered with plastic wrap. You can freeze it if you used fresh berries.
As an alternative to milk, you can wet the pandoro slices with orange or berry juice.

