name:
Bean soup
ingredients:
Dried Borlotti beans: 1.1cups(200 g)
Dried cannellini beans: 1cup(200 g)
Black eyed peas: 1cup(200 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 1.7cups(400 g)
White onions: 1 ⅓cup(200 g)
Carrots: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Celery: 5oz(140 g)- (with leaves)
Garlic: 2cloves- poached
Tomato paste: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Aromatic herbs: to taste- (rosemary, thyme, sage, bay leaf)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 2 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + soaking time for dried legumes (at least 8 h)

instructions:
Bean soup is a classic dish of simple and rustic cooking, made with various types of beans. Just soak the dried legumes the night before and prepare a simple sauté of carrots, celery, and onion. Nothing else is needed for this main dish, a soup full of flavor and nutrients, ideal for ending a cold winter day! A comfort food from the past that will be a pleasure to enjoy at the table with the whole family... whether served with croutons or with the addition of pasta, bean soup will warm the stomach and heart with its rustic and homely character!
If you love legume soups, also try these recipes:

To prepare the bean soup, soak the beans in cold water for the time indicated on the package (usually overnight) . If the times align, you can soak everything together. Drain the beans and rinse them, then place them in a pot with plenty of cold water and, from the moment it boils, cook them for about an hour . Meanwhile, peel and chop the onion .
Cut the celery and carrot into cubes about 1/8 inch in size . Mash the peeled tomatoes with a fork , or tear them by hand, without draining.
Prepare the aromatic bunch with rosemary, sage, thyme, and bay leaves tied together with kitchen string . In a very large pan, sauté the onion with oil for the first 3 minutes , then add the garlic cloves with their skin .
Add the celery and carrot and continue cooking the sauté for about ten minutes. After this time, add the peeled tomatoes and the aromatic bunch .
In the meantime, the beans will be cooked, so add them to the pot along with their cooking water, then pour in a little more water . From the moment it boils again, cook over low heat for 45-60 minutes. In the last few minutes of cooking (check that the beans are tender), add the tomato paste and salt.
Finally, remove the herb bunch and the garlic . Let your bean soup rest for a few minutes before serving it with raw oil, pepper, and croutons !
Bean soup can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container. You can freeze it for about a month.
You can use pre-cooked beans instead of dried ones: in this case, skip the soaking step and add them directly to the sauté. If you prefer, you can opt for only one type of bean.
The peeled tomatoes can be replaced with 9 oz of fresh vine tomatoes.
We recommend not salting the legumes in the first cooking phase, otherwise, they will become harder and take longer to cook.

