name:
Chickpea nuggets
ingredients:
Precooked chickpeas: 1lb(420 g)- (drained)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: ¼cup(30 g)- grated
Whole milk: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Powdered turmeric: 1tsp
Salt: to taste
Cream cheese: ¼cup(60 g)
Breadcrumbs: ¼cup(30 g)
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp
Lemon peel: 1
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 2
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minuntes for the dough to firm up in the refrigerator

instructions:
The word nuggets immediately conjures up images of golden bite-sized chicken pieces served at all fast food restaurants, but the version we present you with here is definitely more genuine: chickpea nuggets ! Similar to potato croquettes, these vegetarian nuggets are made with a soft pulse and cheese mixture that is flavored with spices and lemon peel. A recipe bursting with Mediterranean flavor that may remind you of falafel, but with the use of precooked chickpeas, so that it is much simpler and quicker to make. These fragrant and morish chickpea nuggets can be served with a simple yogurt or mustard sauce and enjoyed with drinks... the oven baked version is delicious too!
To make chickpea nuggets , drain the precooked chickpeas, place in the mixer and blend into a puree . Add the spreadable fresh cheese .
Season with the paprika and turmeric , then add the grated Grana Padana PDO cheese .
Add salt and pepper. Lastly, add the breadcrumbs and the grated lemon peel .
Soften the mixture with the milk and thoroughly stir together by hand so that you end up with a homogeneous texture . Leave the dough to firm up in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
Once the firming time is up, remove roughly 0.88 oz portions of the dough and gently flatten in the palm of your hand , then shape into a nugget by hand . With these amounts you should be able to make around 24 nuggets .
Dip each nugget in the flour , then the egg previously beaten with a pinch of salt and lastly, coat them in breadcrumbs .
You're ready to fry now: heat the seed oil to 338-356°F (170-180°C) and add a few nuggets at a time . Fry for around a minute per side until nice and golden , then drain on absorbent paper . Serve the chickpea nuggets nice and hot!
Chickpea nuggets are best enjoyed freshly made. If necessary, you can store the cooked nuggets in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
You can freeze them cooked or uncooked.
If you prefer, you can bake the chickpea nuggets in a static oven preheated to 392°F (200°C) for around 15 minutes.
Vary the spices according to taste, adding turmeric, ginger, oregano, garlic, parsley or anise for example!
A few ideas for a sauce you can serve them with? Try serving with some tzatziki!

