name:
Ricotta and turmeric gnocchi
ingredients:
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 3cups(500 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(200 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 4oz(130 g)- (for grating)
Eggs: 2- medium
Powdered turmeric: 2tsp(5 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: to taste- for grating
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 15 min. resting time for the dough in the refrigerator

instructions:
Thursday is gnocchi day! Yes, but ricotta gnocchi, or better still, ricotta and turmeric gnocchi ! A delicious and genuine first course that combines the properties of turmeric with the soft and delicate consistency of ricotta cheese. For this version of potato-free gnocchi we've chosen a very simple tomato-free sauce with extravirgin oil and thyme, which goes perfectly with this spice, without overshadowing it. Perfect for a vegetarian meal, ricotta and turmeric gnocchi will also be appreciated by those who pay particular attention to their well-being!
Discover more delicious Gnocchi recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make ricotta and turmeric gnocchi , start by placing the ricotta cheese and beaten eggs in a bowl ; stir thoroughly , add salt and pepper.
Add the turmeric , the grated Granda Padano DOP cheese and the flour .
Stir everything together by hand , then place the mixture on the worktop and knead into a smooth and homogeneous dough. Wrap in plastic wrap and leave to rest in the refrigerator for 15 minutes.
Once this time is up, sprinkle some semolina on the worktop, divide the dough into 4 pieces and roll into strips, each roughly 0.8" thick . Cut into gnochi that are roughly 0.6" in size, using a spatula and place them on a cloth sprinkled with semolina .
Bring some salted water to the boil in a saucepan and add the gnocchi . Remove them once they come to the surface and place them in a pan with a drizzle of hot oil . Finish cooking the gnocchi in the pan, with a ladle of their cooking water .
Lastly, add the grated Grana Padano DOP cheese and stir until creamy ; add some more cooking water if necessary. Arrange onto plates, season with few thyme leaves and a grating of pepper to taste. Your ricotta and turmeric gnocchi are ready to be served !
Ricotta and turmeric gnocchi can be stored in the refrigerator for one day at most.
If you want, you can prepare the gnocchi the day before and store them uncooked in the refrigerator. Or you can also freeze them.
Instead of thyme you can use rosemary, sage or oregano.
For a more decisive taste you can stir some grated pecorino cheese in with the ricotta and turmeric gnocchi until creamy!

