name:
Roast beef and caramelized onion panini
ingredients:
Beef sirloin: 2lbs(1 kg)
Rosemary: 15sprigs
Sage: 3sprigs
Garlic: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Bay leaves: 4leaves
Yellow onions: 3
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Brandy: 1tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Type 00 flour: 5tbsp(30 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(300 g)
Cheese: 5oz(150 g)- comté
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Black pepper: to taste
Rolls: 4- michetta

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Roast beef is typical of Anglo-Saxon tradition and is delicious served with potatoes, as well as the way we present to you today. Roast beef and caramelized onion panini is a real delicacy. You can choose whether to prepare the meat specially for this recipe, or perhaps you'll use some left over from the day before: the important thing is that there is enough sauce for flavoring the bread! We used michetta rolls, which are empty on the inside, making them perfect for this filling, but you can use whatever kind of bread you prefer and, why not, even a couple of slices of homemade bread! In addition to the roast beef there are caramelized onions too: their sweet and sour after-taste is perfect with the freshly made mornay sauce, a sort of béchamel bursting with cheeses! If you are wondering what comté cheese is, well it is one of the best-know French cheeses and it runs the entire range, from fresh to mature. Don't worry if you can't find any: simply use another kind of medium hard cheese! Ready to bite into all this goodness?!
To make roast beef and caramelized onion panini , start with the meat. You'll need a piece already tied with a rosemary sprig. Dab abundant salt all over the meat then place it in a pan with a drizzle of hot oil and brown thoroughly on both sides to seal it , on a high flame.
In the meantime, place the aromatic herbs and the head of garlic divided into two pieces in an oven tray . Once the meat is nicely browned, place it over the herbs and add a drizzle of oil . Bake in a preheated static oven at 428° for 15 minutes, then lower the temperature to 355°F (180°C) and cook for another 11 minutes. The temperature inside should reach 118.4-122°F ( 48-50 ° C).
Prepare the onions too in the meantime. Peel and cut them in half , then into thin slices . Place a drizzle of oil in a pan and then add the onions .
Add a sprinkling of salt and the pieces of butter . Leave to wilt, stirring occasionally on a low flame for around 30 minutes, until nice and soft and slightly blond. Add the brandy , simmer and reduce on a high flame so that it caramelizes to just the right point; this should take around 10 minutes.
Remove the roast beef from the oven when done and cover with an aluminum sheet . Leave to rest for at least 15 minutes. Prepare the sauce in the meantime. Melt the butter in a saucepan. Add the flour all at once .
Stir vigorously with a whisk to form an amber roux . Now add the milk and stir thoroughly with a whisk , to prevent lumps from forming.
As soon as the sauce starts to thicken add the Comté cheese and the Parmigiano Reggiano DOP cheese , both grated. Add pepper to taste and continue stirring until the cheeses melt .
Add both egg yolks and thoroughly stir them in . Now thinly slice the meat .
Cut the michetta roll in half and if you prefer, toast it in a pan. Wet the bread with the meat juices and place a couple of slices inside . Add the caramelized onions .
Finish with the sauce . Close the panini and serve it .
Roast beef can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day at most. Once you have made the panini, it is best enjoyed right away.
If you don't have a cooking thermometer you can use a meat probe, which is much longer; place it in the meat and be sure to reach the middle to read the temperature.  When you remove it and place it against your lower lip it should be hotter than your temperature but bearable and not burning hot.
Instead of comté you can use Gruviera or Emmentaler cheese.

