name:
Pasta with creamy lentils
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 0.75lb(320 g)
Dried lentils: 2cups(400 g)
Guanciale: 5oz(150 g)
Garlic: 2cloves- unpeeled
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Dried chili pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- for grating
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste- unfiltered

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Note + soaking time for lentils (3 h)

instructions:
The land of Umbria is famous for its bucolic rural landscapes and excellent products, like salami, lentils and extra virgin olive oil. Pasta with creamy lentils is a simple and genuine recipe that pays tribute to all this goodness! Compared to classic pasta e lenticchie, in this version the pulses are turned into a velvety cream enriched with the decisive touch of jowl bacon. A rustic and hearty pasta dish to which we have added snapped spaghetti, just like grandma used to! Ideal for warming the body and soul, pasta with creamy lentils will let you relive all the flavor of tradition.
To prepare pasta with creamy lentils start by soaking the lentils for around 3 hours . Drain and rinse the lentils once this time is up. Brown the unpeeled crushed garlic cloves, rosemary sprigs and peperoncino in a large saucepan with a drizzle of extravirgin olive oil .
Add the lentils and cover with water . Lower the heat just before bringing to the boil and cook for around 20 minutes, or for however long it says on the packet .
Cut the guanciale bacon into strips in the meantime . Brown the jowl bacon in a thoroughly heated pan until the fat becomes transparent .
Place the guanciale bacon on absorbent paper and leave to one side . Once the lentils are done, remove the garlic and blend into a homogeneous cream . Bring salted water to the boil in a saucepan to cook the pasta.
Snap the spaghetti and cook until firm to the bite . At the end of the pasta cooking time add the guanciale bacon to the lentil cream .
Add the spaghetti too and stir thoroughly . Arrange onto plates and complete the pasta with creamy lentils with some grated Parmigiano Reggiano PDO and a drizzle of raw extravirgin olive oil !
Pasta with creamy lentils can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, in a sealed container.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can replace guanciale with pancetta.

