name:
Kale and chestnut pasta
ingredients:
Pennoni rigati pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 5oz(150 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Lemon juice: to taste
Precooked chestnuts: 1cup(150 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2tbsp
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Salted ricotta cheese: to taste
Precooked chestnuts: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Did you like pasta with kale? With just a few other ingredients you'll be able to make this first course, which is perfect for winter: kale and chestnut pasta ! A super delicious pasta, thanks to the Italian kale cream made with a special ingredient: chestnuts! The stalks of the Italian kale can also be used to make this recipe...we'll show you how...for a zero waste dish! A grating of salted ricotta cheese before serving is all you'll need to complete this irresistibly creamy first course! For a truly original result we chose pennoni pasta, but opt for whatever shapes you like, long or short! Here are some other unmissable recipes with Italian kale:
To make kale and chestnut pasta, start by cleaning the Italian kale. Separate the kale leaves and gently run your hand down the stalk to remove it . Don't throw the stalks away though: you'll need them for later. Leave aside the smaller and tenderest leaves too. Blanche the Italian kale in salted boiling water .
Drain with a colander after around a minute, leave the cooking water to one side, then place the kale in a bowl with water and ice . This way it will cool rapidly without losing its bright color. Now wring it out and place it in a tall and narrow container .
Add half a peeled garlic clove , a few drops of lemon juice and the precooked chestnuts .
Add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP , a drizzle of oil and a little of the water you cooked the kale in .
Blend into a smooth and cream using an immersion blender . Leave to one side and prepare the Italian kale stalks. Thinly slice them .
Place a drizzle of oil in a pan with half a garlic clove. Add the Italian kale stalks and the tenderest leaves you saved for later . Add a pinch of salt and finish cooking. In the meantime, cook the pennoni in the kale cooking water after bringing it back to the boil . Remove the garlic as soon as the kale is tender, then add the cream you made with the leaves . Add a little cooking water too.
Drain the pennoni and add them straight to the pan . Season with salt , then serve on plates .
Finish off with the salted ricotta and some crumbled chestnuts . Your pennoni are ready, enjoy them right away !
Pasta is best enjoyed freshly prepared, although it can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
If you prefer you could use smoked instead of salted ricotta for a more decisive flavor, or even fresh ricotta for a more delicate flavor, by adding tufts of the cheese just before serving!

