name:
Spaghetti with shrimp scampi
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 0.75lb(320 g)
Scampi: 12
Water: 3quarts(3 l)
Ice: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare spaghetti with shrimp scampi , start with the cleaning. Remove the head by folding it back by hand ; remove the eyes, which are bitter when cooked, and place in a bowl. Use a pair of scissors to cut into the side and break the shell open ; remove the scampi pulp and collect the shells and heads.
Cut into the back of the scampi to remove the inner filament . Repeat this operation for each scampi. Start preparing the bisque. Add a drizzle of oil to a large saucepan, together with the scampi scraps . Brown thoroughly for 4-5 minutes, then add the ice cubes .
Now add the water and leave to cook for 45 minutes on a medium flame . Give the scampi a quick wash in the meantime .
Dry them thoroughly with some absorbent paper . Take half of the scampi, dice into 0.8 inch pieces and place them in a bowl .
Take the remaining pieces and finely chop them with a knife to make a tartare . Place in another bowl . Cover both bowls with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator until ready to use.
When the bisque is reduced, blend with an immersion blender to bring out all the flavors . Then filter it . Cook the spaghetti in salted boiling water for half of the cooking time indicated on the packet .
Drain and place them in a pan . Add the bisque and finish cooking the pasta on a high flame , until creamy. Add more salt to taste if necessary.
Add the scampi pieces and sauté for one minute . Use a pair of tongs and a ladle to form a spaghetti nest, then place it on a plate .
Collect a little of the cream from the bottom of the pan and add to the plates . Now form small quenelle with the scampi tartare and place them on the spaghetti. Add a pinch of black pepper and serve.
We recommend enjoying spaghetti with shrimp scampi freshly prepared.
Use ice and water to make the bisque as this thermal shock really brings out the flavors in the scampi.

