name:
Linguine with clams and bottarga
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Clams: 1lb(500 g)
White wine: ¼cup(60 g)
Mullet Bottarga: 2oz(50 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High
Note + il tempo per spurgare e lavare le vongole

instructions:
If you are a spaghetti and clams lover, we are sure you will immediately fall in love with this recipe! Linguine with clams and bottarga is a simple first course, yet with a refined taste! Mullet roe is a valuable ingredient, also defined as the "Mediterranean caviar". In fact, bottarga is made with dried mullet roe and is then grated directly into the pasta, so that it releases all its flavour, truly particular and intense, which goes very well with that of the clams. Discover with us how easy it is to prepare this pasta!
To prepare the linguine with clams and bottarga , first take care of purging the clams. Rinse them thoroughly and place them in a bowl with water and salt . Wait half an hour then rinse them and beat them to remove any sand. After you have purged the clams, place a saucepan full of water, salted to taste, on the heat, which will be used to cook the pasta. Pour a drizzle of oil, 2 cloves of garlic and the parsley stalks into a large pan . Heat well and add the clams .
Deglaze with the white wine , then cover with a lid and cook them for about 5 minutes until they are all open .
In the meantime, also cook the linguine . Using a slotted spoon, take the clams and transfer them to a bowl, so as to keep the cooking water in the pan. As soon as the linguine is al dente, transfer it to the pan and add a ladle of cooking water .
Finish cooking and add the grated bottarga . Mix well and also add the clams .
Add another drizzle of oil , the chopped parsley and stir well the linguine . Then serve, adding the clams and their sauce .
We recommend consuming the linguine with clams and bottarga at the moment; alternatively you can keep them in the refrigerator for a day at most.
We also recommend adding raw grated bottarga to each dish.
Instead of mullet roe you can also use tuna roe.

