name:
Cod and potato bites
ingredients:
Cod: 1lb(400 g)
Potatoes: 1lb(500 g)
Eggs: 2
Fresh scallion: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note plus the cod soaking time (3 days)

instructions:
Cod is one of the most popular ingredients of the festive season and is often served fried or stewed. Today we'd like to present you with a truly delicious recipe: our cod and potato bites . A starter of simple flavors that will win all your guests over. Making these croquettes is very simple, but to achieve the right level of sapidity and softness, you'll need to be careful when soaking the cod. The only way to ensure it is tender, rehydrated and loses most of its salt, used to preserve it, is to wait 3 days and change the water frequently. You too can prepare these delicious bite, perfect as a starter for your Christmas Eve dinner or for dinner on New Year's Eve!
To prepare cod and potato bites start by desalting the cod 3 days before. Take the cod, which will be covered in salt , rinse it thoroughly under running water and place it in a large bowl. Fill the bowl with cold water , cover and place back in the refrigerator. You'll need to change the water a couple of times a day.
When the cod is thoroughly desalted, rinse it again under running water . Now place the potatoes in a large saucepan, cover with water and add a pinch of salt . Bring to the boil and cook for around 30-40 minutes, until soft. In the meantime, cook the cod in boiling water (not salted) for around 10 minutes. Drain and leave to cool.
Remove the skin from the cod and any bones , then break into pieces by hand, and place in a bowl. Drain the potatoes as soon as they are cooked and leave them to cool. Peel and cut them into pieces .
Place them in a mixer bowl , add the cod and blend into a cream .
Finely chop the middle part of the spring onion . Add to the potato and cod puree, which you will have placed in a bowl , and add the chopped parsley too .
Now add the eggs , a pinch of black pepper and salt . Stir by hand to obtain a soft, sticky and homogeneous mixture .
Heat abundant peanut seed oil in a pan. Use two spoons to shape the mixture and place them in the hot oil. Fry the cod and potato balls , turn them over every now and then , until nice and golden. Drain and place them on absorbent paper to remove any excess oil . Serve when nice and hot!
You can store the mixture for the balls in the refrigerator for up to a day before preparation. We recommend you enjoy the balls freshly fried.
For an exotic touch, you could serve the cod and potato bites with soy sauce. Replace the fresh spring onion with a small grated garlic clove.

