name:
Red velvet yule log
ingredients:
Eggs: 3(165 g)- (medium)
Egg yolks: 3(45 g)- ( medium)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 3cups(150 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 1tbsp(10 g)
Food coloring: to taste- (liposoluble liquid, gel or powder, red color)
Cream cheese: 3cups(500 g)
Heavy cream: ⅔cup(150 g)
Wildflower honey: 2tbsp(50 g)
Butter: 1cup(400 g)- cold
Sambuca: 2tsp(10 g)
Raspberries: to taste
Star anise: to taste
Powdered sugar: 1cup(100 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + 3 h cooling

instructions:
At Christmas are you a fan of Pandoro or do you prefer to tuck into some Panettone? It's difficult to please everyone, unless of course you decide to prepare some red velvet yule log , in all its deliciousness and beauty! We created it with Christmas Eve dinner or Christmas lunch in mind: a refined, majestic and festively decorated cake. A white butter and sugar cream for a snow-covered dessert and a soft, bright red cookie will make a delicious and colorful alternative to typical Yule log . Fresh, delicious and enticing: this festive dessert will tastefully decorate your buffet with a touch of originality, winning over even the most demanding of palates!
To prepare red velvet yule log , place the whole eggs and yolks at room temperature in the planetary mixer bowl along with the sugar and the seeds of the vanilla bean . Start beating the mixture with the whisk, then add the red coloring .
Stir for around 10 minutes until puffy and frothy. Sieve and add the flour and cocoa powder to the mixture, then gently stir with a whisk .
Place the mixture in a 12x16 inch buttered baking tray lined with parchment paper . Spread the mixture out evenly using a spatula . Bake in a static oven at 374°F ( 190 ° C) for around 20 minutes. Remove from the oven after this time .
Remove from the tray right away and place it on a sheet of parchment paper. Cover with plastic wrap and leave to cool thoroughly . In the meantime, prepare the cream for the filling. Place the fresh cheese in a large bowl, then add the honey and the fresh liquid milk . Beat the ingredients with an electric whisk into a smooth and soft cream .
Remove the film from the soft dough and leave it on the sheet of parchment paper. Trim the edges . Pour the honey cream over the biscuit base and spread evenly using a spatula to coat the entire surface .
Using the sheet of paper, delicately roll the topped cookie base to form a roll . Seal the roll in the wrap and leave to rest in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours .
Once the cooling time is up, place the roll on a cutting board and taper both ends with a slanted cut to create the two outer branches of the Yule log. Arrange the leaves either side of the Log on the serving plate (or board) . Prepare the cream for the topping. Place the cold butter and sugar in the planetary mixer bowl and beat with the whisk blade into a firm and smooth cream.
Add the Sambuca liqueurr and stir some more for a couple of minutes . Place 2/3 of the cream in a piping bag with a flat ruffle piping tip .
Use a spatula to cover the surface of the log with the butter cream , which will be the base for the decoration. Use the piping bag to create the striped decoration, covering the entire surface of the log . Smooth the edges on both ends using a spatula. Garnish the red velvet yule log with a few fresh raspberries, lightly sprinkled with powdered sugar and star aniseed pieces.
Red velvet Yule log can be stored in the refrigerator for 3 days.
To get ahead with the preparation, the biscuit base can be made a few days earlier; store it in the freezer once thoroughly cooled. Leave to defrost in the refrigerator over night the day before using it.
Liquid, gel or powdered coloring can be used, simply add to the beaten eggs. The important thing is that they are liposoluble.
The filling cream can also be enriched with lemon or orange peel, vanilla or cinnamon.

