name:
Mountain-style lasagna
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 6oz(180 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 4oz(110 g)- (for grating)
Garlic: 1clove
Champignon mushrooms: 8oz(250 g)
Chanterelle mushrooms (chanterelle): 8oz(250 g)
Portobello mushrooms: 8oz(250 g)
Tomato purée: 2cups(500 g)
Red wine: 4tbsp(60 g)
Sausage: 14oz(400 g)
Celery: 1stalk
Carrots: 1
Yellow onions: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(50 g)
Butter: 4tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 6
Cost: High

instructions:
Lasagne che passione ! Take a moment to think about just how many palates have you satisfied with lasagne alla bolognese and other versions , salmon or vegetarian included! Now you can add mountain-style lasagna to this long list, with 4 deliciously filled layers: chanterelle, portobello and champignon mushrooms to start. Then of course there's classic sausage, in an appetizing ragù. Velvety béchamel in between each layer makes this oven-baked first course even more delicious and inviting.
If you liked this recipe, don't miss these too:
Discover more delicious Lasagna recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare mountain-style lasagna , start with the sausage ragù: peel and finely chop the onion , celery and carrot .

Heat a drizzle of oil in a saucepan and make the vegetable base for pan frying . Cook on a medium flame for 6-7 minutes, stirring occasionally. Decase the sausage .
Add the crumbled sausage meat and brown on a medium flame for around 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Add red wine , simmer and reduce. Add the tomato puree , salt, and cook the ragout on a medium-low flame for around 1 hour: be sure it isn't too thick in consistency.
Make the béchamel in the meantime: bring the milk to the boil in a saucepan, with a pinch of salt . Melt the butter in another saucepan and add the flour in one go . Stir vigorously with a whisk to prevent lumps from forming. Continue to stir until the mixture turns golden .
Add a little hot milk , stir, and add the rest of the milk. Cook the béchamel for around 5-6 minutes , until dense. Store at room temperature, covered with plastic wrap .
Now prepare the mushrooms : clean them by scraping off the most soil-covered part.  Cut the chanterelles into slices , do the same with the champignons and the portobellos .
Heat a drizzle of evo oil in a large pan. Add the garlic clove and leave to flavor. Add the mushrooms and sauté in the pan for 2-3 minutes, or until cooked. Add salt and remove the garlic clove .
The ragout will also be ready now , add salt to taste. Take a 9.5"x7"x2.4" baking tray, add an initial thin layer of béchamel , top with 3 slightly overlapping sheets of egg pasta, then another layer of béchamel .
Now add some of the mushrooms , a layer of ragout , and another layer of pasta . Continue alternating the layers in this way until you use up all the ingredients and end up with four layers.
Cover the ragout on the final layer with grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP cheese . Drizzle with a dash of oil . Bake in a conventional oven at 390 ° F (200 ° C) for 5 minutes to broil the surface. Remove from the oven and leave the mountain-style lasagna to cool slightly before serving.
The béchamel and the ragù can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days, in a sealed container. The lasagne can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. They can be frozen.
Make sure the sausage ragù isn't too dense or runny, to ensure a perfect result for your lasagne!
When béchamel cools it may become more solid and sticky: if this happens, simply stir vigorously with whisk so that it returns to its previous consistency.
For a more delicate flavor, you can use half the amount of sausage and replace the remaining half with beef mince.
Once cooked, the mushrooms can be flavored with some thyme.

