name:
Marinated salmon
ingredients:
Fine salt: 1cup(500 g)
Sugar: 2cups(500 g)
Salmon steaks: 1- blast frozen
Oranges: 1- untreated
Lemons: 1- untreated
Gin: 3tbsp(50 g)
Tarragon: to taste
Dill: to taste
Pink peppercorn: to taste
Beets: 1lb(500 g)- extract
Cuttlefish ink: 2tbsp(20 g)
Water: 2cups(480 g)
Gin: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Red currants: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: High
Note + 24 h rest in the refrigerator + marinating time (2-4 h for the beet salmon, 5-6 h for the cuttlefish ink salmon)

instructions:
Smoked salmon is an unmissable ingredient in Christmas and NewYear's Eve starters, but this year we present you with a delicious and refined alternative: home made marinated salmon ! A raw fish carpaccio that is scenographic in all its three versions, perfect for special occasions. With a single slice of fresh blast frozen salmon you can create three colors and flavors: citrus, beet and cuttlefish ink. Three different marinades, made from a single base, will characterize the salmon with aromas and vibrant colors, to be savored unadulterated on a slice of toasted bread spread with a little butter. Marinated salmon is a dish that is alluring at first sight and wins everyone over right from the first bite. Discover how you can make it all by yourself!
To make the marinated salmon , prepare the balanced salt by stirring the salt with the sugar : this is the base for the marinade. For the citrus version, cut an orange and a lemon into slices.
Finely chop the tarragon and the dill . Place the salmon slice in a container and cover with the finely chopped aromatic herbs and a generous handful of pink pepper corns , then add the gin.
Squeeze the juice from an orange slice and a lemon slice , then rub them over the fish and massage by hand to coax out the essential oils. Now place part of the balanced salt in another baking tray .
Place the salmon over it and spread the aromatic mixture over it , followed by a few orange and lemon slices .
Add some more balanced salt to fully cover the salmon, then press down on the surface with the palm of your hand and seal with plastic wrap . Leave to marinade in the refrigerator for 24 hours.
To make the beet and cuttlefish ink marinades, cover the bottom of a baking tray with the balanced salt , place the salmon slices over  it and cover with more balanced salt . Press the surface down with your hands, seal with plastic wrap and leave to rest in the refrigerator for 24 hours.
Once this time is up, rinse the salmon slices under running water. For the beet version, place a slice in another baking tray and add enough beet extract to cover the fish entirely . Seal with plastic wrap and leave to marinade in the refrigerator for 2 hours for a sweeter and more delicate flavor, or for 4 hours, for a stronger and more intense flavor.
For the cuttlefish ink version, place the salmon slice in another baking tray and add the cuttlefish ink, previously diluted in water . Cover the fish entirely , seal with plastic wrap , and leave to marinade in the refrigerator for 5-6 hours.
Once the marinating time is up, remove the citrus salmon from the balanced salt and rinse under running water . There is no need to rinse the beet marinated salmon and cuttlefish ink marinated salmon : dabbing them will suffice.
Thinly slice the different salmon pieces , then delicately roll them to form roses . Arrange the salmon roses on a serving dish and season with a dash of gin, some finely chopped tarragon, a grating of pink pepper and a drizzle of evo oil. Garnish with a few red currant sprigs, and serve your marinated salmon !
Marinated salmon is best enjoyed freshly made.
If you do not have and extractor, you can blend the beet, or use precooked ones: the important thing is that the salmon is fully covered by it. You can also use different vegetables to make delicious versions, like cabbage, or spinach for example.
You can replace gin with brandy or scotch, or simply with some evo oil!
Before consuming raw, marinated or semi-cooked fish, it is recommended that you freeze it for at least 96 hours at -0.4°F in a home freezer with 3 or more stars, in accordance with your National Ministry of Health guidelines.

