name:
Pandoro
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: ½cup(60 g)- W 350
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)- at room temperature
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(3 g)
Biga: 3oz(90 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ⅓cup(150 g)- W 350
Sugar: ¼cup(45 g)
Eggs: 2(110 g)- medium
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1 ½tsp(5 g)
Acacia honey: 1 ½tbsp(30 g)
Vanilla bean: 2
Lemon peel: 1- grated
Orange peel: 1- grated
Type 00 flour: 2cups(230 g)- W 350
Sugar: ⅔cup(125 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 2(110 g)- medium, at room temperature
Egg yolks: 2(30 g)- at room temperature
Butter: ⅔cup(150 g)- soft
Fine salt: ¾tsp(5 g)
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + the maturation, leavening and resting times of the dough (about 32 hours)

instructions:
To prepare the homemade pandoro , start with the biga. In a bowl, pour the flour, the water and the crumbled brewer's yeast . Mix with a spoon .
Mix the ingredients quickly with a fork or with your hands , without kneading, to obtain a coarse and non-homogeneous mixture. Cover the mixture with plastic wrap and let it mature for 8 hours at room temperature. After 8 hours, take the mixture again, don't worry if it hasn't grown much .
Move on to the 1st dough . Pour the biga into the bowl of a planetary mixer equipped with a hook . Add the flour and the sugar .
Also add the crumbled brewer's yeast and the slightly beaten eggs at room temperature . Activate the planetary mixer and let it work for about 10 minutes until you obtain a smooth and well-strung dough .
Transfer the dough on a surface , give it a couple of folds and roll it in order to obtain a round shape , then transfer it into a large, tall bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for 2 hours at room temperature, or in the oven turned off, with the light on: the dough should double in size, the times are approximative. Then transfer the dough (which will have already grown) to the refrigerator for another 14 hours.
In the meantime, take a bowl and pour the acacia honey, the grated lemon zest , the grated orange zest and the pulp of two vanilla pods .
Mix well and cover with plastic wrap . Store at room temperature until use. We recommend preparing it the day before for a greater aroma. Once the resting time has elapsed, remove the dough from the refrigerator and leave it for another hour at room temperature covered with plastic wrap .
You can proceed with the 2nd dough . Pour the flour and sugar into the bowl of the planetary mixer equipped with the hook . Add water and the 1st dough . Operate the mixer at moderate speed.
Meanwhile, beat eggs and yolks together, both at room temperature . When the water is completely absorbed, add them to the mixture a little at a time . After a few minutes, add the salt .
When the eggs are well absorbed, add the honey . Continue kneading on medium-low speed until everything comes together. It is important to prevent the dought from overheating, so every 10 minutes of kneading, turn off the machine and let the dough rest for 5 minutes before starting again. When the dough is well strung take a final rest for 10 minutes without kneading it, covered with a cloth. Turn on the planetary mixer again and gradually add the creamed butter one piece at a time .
Wait for the first piece to be well absorbed , before adding more. When you have finished adding the butter remove the dough from the hook and let it rest for another 10 minutes, covered with a cloth. In the meantime, butter and flour a 2 lbs (1 kg) pandoro mold.
After 10 minutes, operate the planetary mixer for a few more seconds. Now moisten your hands and transfer the dough on a lightly buttered surface . Slap a couple of times and fold by lifting the dough and turning it over on itself, always with moistened hands . Let the dough rest for 5 minutes on the surface without covering it .
Make two more rounds of reinforcing folds, 10 minutes apart from the previous fold . Roll out the dough and transfer it into the mold .
After placing the dough in the mold , cover it with plastic wrap without stretching it, to leave room for the dough to grow . Let it rise at room temperature for 4-6 hours until the dough has reached the edge of the mold .
Bake the pandoro in a preheated conventional oven at 338 °F (170°C) for 55-60 minutes until the surface is golden brown. Check the temperature at the heart of the pandoro with a kitchen thermometer, it must reach 197°F (92°C) to be cooked correctly. Once cooked, take the pandoro out of the oven and let it cool for 30 minutes at room temperature. Transfer it to a wire rack and let it cool completely . Once cold, sprinkle with icing sugar and enjoy!
You can store the pandoro, completely cold, in a plastic food bag. Seal it with a metal clip to keep it from drying out.
It is possible to add other aromas to the pandoro, or to use a honey with a stronger flavour.
Do you want to vary the mold? For a 1.5 lbs (750 g) mold you will have to reduce all the indicated doses by 1/4.
The traditional way to serve pandoro is accompanied by mascarpone cream .
In order not to find yourself having to set the alarm clock in the middle of the night to follow the recipe, you can adjust as follows: preparing the biga in the morning (9 am), you can make the first dough in the afternoon (5 pm) and let it rise until morning later, when you proceed with the second dough (9 am). In this way, in the afternoon (3 pm) you will be ready to bake your homemade pandoro!

