name:
Pear and chocolate panettone
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 1cup(200 g)- strong (0.12 cup of proteins)
Water: 7tbsp(100 g)- (at 75.2°F)
Butter: 5tbsp(70 g)- (soft)
Sugar: 5tbsp(58 g)
Sourdough starter: 5tbsp(50 g)- (refreshed 3 times, at 3 hour intervals)
Egg yolks: 3(48 g)- (small)
Candied pear: 3cups(110 g)
Milk chocolate chips: 4oz(110 g)
Butter: 1stick(105 g)- (soft)
Type 0 flour: ⅔cup(75 g)- strong (0.12 cup of proteins)
Egg yolks: 2(48 g)- (around 3 small ones, yellow paste)
Fine salt: 1tsp(4 g)
Water: 2tbsp(25 g)
Orange paste: 2tbsp(20 g)
Honey: 1tbsp(20 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Malt: 1tsp(2 g)- (in paste)
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 1 h 20 min
Cook time: 54 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + leavening time (20-21 hours in total) and the cooling time (6-8 hours)

instructions:
If last Christmas you put yourself to the test by making artisan panettone and this year you can step up your game, with this recipe for pear and chocolate panettone by chef Andrea Tortora , master of leavened preparations! Make the most of the holidays by setting aside enough time to prepare this unique dessert: thanks to natural yeast, the dough will be especially fragrant and aromatic, while also remaining softer for longer. The candied pear and dark chocolate, along with an orange and vanilla emulsion, will add a refined and simply irresistible touch to this dessert. Follow all the steps, pay attention when selecting ingredients and get ready to celebrate a sweet Christmas with a guest of honor, your very own homemade pear and chocolate panettone !
Try these delicious panettone versions too:
Discover more delicious Panettone recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make pear and chocolate panettone , start by preparing the first dough: place the flour in the planetary mixer bowl, together with the sugar and water . Mix with the dough hook for a couple of minutes at a medium speed, then add the natural yeast and stir for another 5-6 minutes, until smooth.
Add a part of the egg yolks and stir some more at a medium and then at a medium-high speed. When the dough detaches from the side of the bowl add the softened butter in one go and continue to stir until fully absorbed; this will take around 5-8 minutes, so that it is smooth, elastic and glossy. Add the remaining egg yolks and stir for another 1-2 minutes at a medium speed.
The dough will now be smooth and strong . Check it is ready by delicately pulling an edge, it should almost become transparent. Move to a worktop and slap and fold the dough, by lifting and gently slapping the dough on the top 2-3 times on both sides; it should detach perfectly from the worktop without you having to add any flour . Place the dough in a large bowl , cover with plastic wrap (or with a bag) and leave to leaven for 10-12 hours at a temperature of 82.4-86°F (28-30°C), in the switched off oven with the lights on, for example.
Once the leavening time is up the dough will have nearly tripled in size . Place it in the planetary mixer bowl by hand, with moistened fingers , add the dough and knead with the hook on a medium speed for at least 5-6 minutes.
In the meantime prepare the aromatic emulsion: place the water, orange paste , honey and seeds of a vanilla bean in a bowl.
Add the malt and stir with a whisk or spatula. Once the dough is smooth and elastic, add the sugar and a part of the emulsion; continue to stir at a medium-high speed. Add the remaining emulsion and stir some more until fully absorbed.
Now make sure the gluten has developed, and add part of the egg yolks . Stir them in at a low speed for 1-2 minutes. When the dough detaches from the side, add the softened butter , followed by the salt, a few moments later .
Once the dough is nice and strong, remove it from the sides and add the remaining egg yolks . Knead on a medium-high setting for 2-3 minutes. In the meantime, place the chocolate and candied pears in a bowl and stir thoroughly ; if the candied fruit is too sticky you can add a drop of water to amalgamate it better with the dough.
Add the mixture to the dough and stir for a few minutes at a medium speed. Place the resulting dough on a worktop , slap and fold it a few times and leave to rest for 30 minutes, covered with the bowl .
Once this time is up, roll and round the dough on the worktop, without pressing down on it too much . Leave to rest for another 15 minutes, covered with the bowl , then round it a second time ; leaving it to rest helps add more structure and height to the panettone. Use a spatula to avoid having to sprinkle the worktop with flour.
Now place the dough in a 2.2 lb panettone mold and leave to leaven for around 6-8 hours at a temperature of 82.4-86°F (28-30°C) . Once leavened, the dough will have risen to around an inch from the top of the mold: cut a cross on the top of the panettone and place a piece of butter in the middle of it .
Bake in a static oven preheated to 338°F (170°C) for 54 minutes. Once baked (check that the core temperature is between 201.2-203°F (94-95°C)), remove the panettone from the oven and pierce it with 2 long steel skewers while still hot ; leave to cool upside down for around 6-8 hours . Once cooled (the core temperature must be 68-71.6°F (20-22°C)), your pear and chocolate panettone is ready to be enjoyed !
Pear and chocolate panettone can be stored for around a week in the refrigerator, thoroughly sealed in a plastic bag.
You can freeze it after baking and leaving it to cool.
A very strong flour is needed to make pear and chocolate panettone, type 0 or manitoba: check the W value on the packet is greater than 360 and that it contains around 0.53 oz of protein per 3.5 oz of flour.
Check the dough is ready by making sure it detaches from the side of the planetary mixer bowl.
The emulsion can also be prepared 12-24 hours ahead, for an even more intense aroma.
You can use milk chocolate instead of dark chocolate.
If you'd prefer to make 2 panettone that are 1.1 lb each, cut the dough in half after it has rested and before rounding.

