name:
Tomino burger
ingredients:
Tomini cheese: 2
Hamburger muffins: 2
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Pumpkin: 8oz(250 g)- to be cleaned
Fine salt: 1pinch
Broccoli rabe: 6oz(180 g)
Pine nuts: 1tbsp(10 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3tbsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Average
Note +1 hour for marinating the tomino cheese

instructions:
Looking for some authentic food porn to whet the appetite of yours guests or Instagram followers? Tomino burger is the perfect dish for you! Mouth-watering melted cheese, which we have already experienced in the oven baked or in puff pastry, will tantalize your taste buds right away. Two soft burger buns with a rich and flavorsome filling we created inspired by seasonal vegetables, although nothing should stop you from experimenting with other delicious versions, so that tomino burger is a dish that can be enjoyed all year round. The vegetarian version of the traditional burger has never been this appetizing: the creamy tomino cheese heart, ready to fall in love at first bite, it will win you over. So give in to the temptation of this delicious sensation: have no fear, you won't make a mess and it really will be worth it!
To make tomino burger , start by preparing the marinade for the tomino cheese: place the peperoncino flavored oil , the thyme and the crushed garlic in a bowl (alternatively you can add the peeled garlic clove whole and remove after marinating).
Evenly grease the tomino cheese on all sides , then place them in a bowl and cover with the marinade , seal the lid and leave to marinade at room temperature for 1 hour (ideally leave over night in the refrigerator and remove 1 hour before cooking).
Clean the pumpkin and cut into slices that are around 0.2 inches thick (7-8): the amount of cleaned pumpkin you want is 5.3 oz. When done marinating, remove the tomino cheese from the tin and place the pumpkin slices inside to flavor them in the same marinade,
and add a pinch of salt . In the meantime preheat the static oven to 390°F (200°C). When nicely seasoned, place the pumpkin on an oven tray and bake in a static oven preheated to 390°F (200°C) for around 20 minutes or until tender. Wash the turnip greens, cut away the tougher part of the stalks and then separate the stalks from the leaves .
Finely chop the stalks and place them in the mixer bowl, with around three quarters of a tablespoons of oil , the salt, the pine nuts
and the grated parmigiano cheese . Blend everything into a homogeneous pesto . Now cook the leaves: heat a drizzle of oil in a pan with an unpeeled crushed garlic clove ;
Once the oil is flavored remove the garlic and add the turnip greens, salt , then sauté on a high flame for around 5 minutes and leave to one side .
Cut the burger rolls in half , place them on a tray, with the sliced part facing upwards , and heat in the oven 2 minutes before the pumpkin cooking time is up. The rolls and the pumpkin are ready ; now you can prepare the tomino cheese:
cook the tomino cheese in a hot non-stick pan for 2 minutes on each side on a low flame; make sure they don't break up . Spread the pesto you made with the turnip green stalks on the bottom half of the rolls , add the pumpkin slices ,
then the tomino cheese and complete with the sautéed turnip greens ; lastly, close with the upper part of the roll . Your tomino burgers are ready to be enjoyed!
Tomino burgers are best enjoyed freshly made. To get ahead you can prepare the vegetables before and store them in the refrigerator, just be sure to heat them up before filling the rolls.
Would you like to turn these burgers into a dish you can enjoy all year round? Replace the pumpkin and turnip greens with other vegetables, like spinach, chard, zucchini or egg plant: be inspired whatever the season!

