name:
Pandoro Tiramisu
ingredients:
Pandoro pastry: 2.8cups(350 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 3 ⅛cups(750 g)
Eggs: 9.2oz(260 g)- (about 5 medium, very fresh)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste
Sugar: 0.6cup(120 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Coffee: 3.5oz(100 g)- from the moka pot
Rum: 1oz(25 g)- (optional)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 6 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
The pandoro tiramisu is a simple dessert, perfect to prepare to enrich the buffet of Christmas sweets! A creamy and super delicious alternative to the classic tiramisu . We replaced the ladyfingers with pandoro (it's also a way to recycle Christmas leftovers after the festive days with an easy and quick recipe!), the mascarpone cream is the classic one, and the coffee soak is flavored with a few drops of rum. You can personalize the pandoro tiramisu recipe as you wish, making the mascarpone cream with the pâte-à-bombe method or an eggless mascarpone cream , using milk instead of coffee, or adding chopped dark chocolate between the layers! For other ways to reuse pandoro, try the pandoro crown , the Yule log of pandoro , or the pandoro stars , perfect for adding a touch of creativity to the traditional Christmas menu or as a New Year's dessert. Otherwise, here are all our most tempting tiramisu variants not to be missed:

To prepare the pandoro tiramisu, start with the mascarpone cream: carefully separate the egg yolks from the whites : begin to whisk the egg whites with the beaters and gradually incorporate half of the sugar and beat them almost to stiff peaks .
With the same beaters, start to whip the egg yolks, then gradually add the other half of the sugar until you obtain a light mixture . Then add the mascarpone little by little while still using the electric beaters. Once fully incorporated, lighten the cream with about half of the beaten egg whites . You can mix quickly with a spatula here.
Then gently fold in the remaining portion, mixing from top to bottom . Divide the pandoro in half and cut into slices about 1/2 inch thick .
Halve them and press with your hands to make them thinner . Prepare the coffee soak: after making the coffee, and sweetening it if desired, let it cool. Add the rum and stir . Spread a thin layer of cream on the base of a 12x8 inch baking dish .
Place the pandoro slices until the base is completely covered . Moisten with the flavored coffee . Do not soak excessively. Pour half of the cream and level it.
Proceed with a second layer of pandoro , coffee , and cream .
Chop the chocolate and cover the surface with just this , or with cocoa and chocolate as desired . Let the pandoro tiramisu set for an hour in the fridge before serving.
You can store the tiramisu for up to a couple of days well-covered in the refrigerator.
We recommend using the freshest eggs. If you want to avoid using raw eggs, you can buy pasteurized eggs at the supermarket. The homemade pasteurization process, in fact, can help but does not guarantee 100% safety.

