name:
Pan-fried vegetable pie
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 11oz(320 g)- round
Chicory: 15oz(450 g)- to be cleaned
Cauliflower: 11oz(330 g)- to be cleaned
Delica pumpkin: 11oz(320 g)- to be cleaned
Brie cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Red onions: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Green olives: 6tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Rosemary: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
Pan-fried vegetable pie is a rich and hearty dish, served as a starter or a vegetarian second course. Unlike all other savory cakes, this savory cake in a pan will amaze you with it alternative, simple and practical cooking method! Simply unroll a puff pastry sheet and top it with soft and stringy cheese, and lots of colorful seasonal vegetables: pumpkin, cabbage and herbs in the winter; zucchini, eggplants and french beans will be perfect in the summer.
To make pan-fried vegetable pie , clean the chicory and remove the lower and stringier part of the stalk, so that you end up with around 12 oz, then cut the stalk into roughly 0.8 inch pieces , and the leaves into irregular pieces. Peel and slice the onion . Remove the outermost leaves of the cauliflower; you should end up with around 9 - 9.5 oz .
Cut into roughly 0.4 inch thick slices . Peel the pumpkin so that you are left with around 7.8-8.1 oz , then into roughly 0.2 inch slices .
Place the sliced onion in a large pan, add a drizzle of oil and brown for around 2 minutes. Add the cauliflower and cook on a high flame for around 3 minutes. Add the sliced pumpkin to the pan too and continue to cook on a high flame for another 3 minutes. Add salt and pepper to taste.
Lastly, add the chicory to the other vegetables in the pan , cover with a lid and cook on a medium flame for another 5 minutes. Remove from the heat and leave to cool .
Dice the brie cheese . Place the rolled out puff pastry sheet in a 9 inch diameter pan . Fill the puff pastry casing: add a few pieces of brie .
Add half of the cooked vegetables , some more brie chees, and half of the olives . Finish off with the remaining vegetables, leftover diced brie cheese, and the remaining olives on top. Fold the puff pastry edge over the vegetables to create a frame and place on the stove.
Cook the savory cake on a medium flame for around 30 minutes with the lid on . Check the puff pastry is done at the base and along the edge. Remove from the heat and leave to cool until warm without the lid on . Place the cake in a serving dish or a cutting board and serve your pan-fried vegetable pie !
Pan-fried vegetable pie can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days. You can even freeze it, as long as you have used nothing but fresh ingredients to make it.
When cooking check the base often to make sure it doesn't darken too much.
Seasonal vegetables can be replaced, just stick to the same total weight.
Instead of brie you can use other cheeses, like grated provola or caciocavallo.

