name:
Chocolate, pear and walnut cake
ingredients:
Abate Fetel pears: 2
Dark chocolate chips: ¾cup(80 g)
Eggs: 4- at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Baking powder: 1tbsp(16 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 4tbsp(50 g)
Whole milk: 3tbsp(50 g)
Lemon juice: 1tbsp(20 g)
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Dark chocolate chips: 5tbsp(50 g)
Walnut kernels: 6tbsp(40 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
Just like the apple version, pear cake is a classic autumn dessert. Chocolate and pear cake is one of the best-loved versions and today we present you with an even richer one: chocolate, pear and walnut cake ! The soft and delicious batter is enriched with fresh fruit and dark chocolate drops. The surface of this dessert also features this match made in heaven, with the extra touch of crunchy nuts, walnut kernels to be exact. Perfect served as a snack, chocolate, pear and walnut cake is also delicious for breakfast as the perfect start to any day!
To make chocolate, pear and walnut cake , place the eggs and the sugar in a large bowl and beat with an electric whisk at top speed into a soft and frothy mixture. Add the seed oil and the milk .
Add the previously sieved flour and yeast too. Beat with the whisk at a high speed to incorporate all the ingredients .
Now peel one of the pears and leave the other unpeeled: cut both in half, remove the core and then cut the peeled one into slices and the unpeeled one into small pieces . You'll need around 14 oz of pear in total. Drizzle with the lemon juice so that they do not darken .
Add the peeled pear to the batter and stir with a spatula; add the chocolate drops too and stir everything together thoroughly .
Pour the batter into a buttered 9" diameter mold sprinkled with flour . Smooth the surface off and create a spoke pattern with the unpeeled pear slices , then sprinkle with the chocolate drops .
Lastly, garnish with the walnut kernels . Bake in a preheated ventilated oven at 356° for 25 minutes on the middle shelf, then switch to static mode and bake for another 35 minutes at 356° . Remove from the oven when done and leave the cake to cool in the mold before removing it ; sprinkle with powdered sugar. Your chocolate, pear and walnut cake is ready to be enjoyed!
Chocolate, pear and walnut cake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
You can freeze it after baking and leaving it to cool.
Cow's milk can be replaced with a plant-based milk, like soy, rice or oat.
Instead of walnuts you could use almonds or hazelnuts.
If you prefer, choose another kind of fruit, like apples, oranges or wild berries, to try out new and delicious versions of this cake!

