name:
Cauliflower pancakes
ingredients:
Cauliflower: 11oz(330 g)- to be cleaned
Type 00 flour: 1cup(130 g)
Eggs: 2(110 g)- medium
Whole milk: ¾cup(150 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)- for grating
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(20 g)
Baking powder: 1tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Cauliflower pancakes are a recipe for an easy and delicious dinner! When we think of pancakes, those with maple syrup spring to mind, which make for a great breakfast. But we can be versatile and creative with pancakes too: this wintry version, with cauliflower puree enriched with spices and seasoning, will also be perfect for your brunches, served with cold cuts, cheeses and morishly fresh sauces, like this yogurt one. A delicious and original idea for using vegetables, just like in the recipe for rosti and vegetable fritters. Hearty and flavorsome, these pancakes are a delicious and original idea for cooking cauliflower!
To make cauliflower pancakes , cut the cauliflower tips and remove the outermost leaves . Place in a saucepan, cover with water and add salt .
Cook for 15 minutes . Once tender, drain the cauliflower (it should weigh around 13 oz), place it in a bowl and smash with a fork while still hot .
Leave the puree to one side. Finely chop the pine nuts and the parsley .
Season the puree with salt, pepper and nutmeg , then add the pine nuts and the parsley .
Now add the flour , the grated cheese , the yeast, and stir. Stir the eggs and milk in too .
Stir everything together . Grease a pan with oil and heat it up. Add a ladle of the batter for each pancake .
Cook for a couple of minutes and use a spatula to turn them over , then cook on the other side too . Once golden, place the cauliflower pancakes on a serving dish .
Cauliflower pancakes are also delicious served cold. They can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
Be sure to throughly smash the cauliflower before adding the other ingredients. Alternatively, it can be blended in a mixer.

