name:
Cabbage and potato soup
ingredients:
Verza (savoy cabbage): 1lb(400 g)
Potatoes: 0.75lb(350 g)
Onions: 2
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1stalk
Vegetable broth: 4cups(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Croutons: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Cabbage and potato soup is a vegetarian zuppa with a velvety consistency, the perfect winter comfort food! Ideal for a home made dinner, this recipe is rich in vegetables that children will also love thanks to the pairing of these two vegetables: indeed the characteristic flavor of the cabbage will be softened and sweetened. Simply add some crunchy croutons and cabbage and potato soup will be a hit with your family.
To make cabbage and potato soup start by preparing around 4.25 cups of vegetable broth; keep it hot and in the meantime peel and coarsely chop the onions and celery . Now peel, tip and cut the carrot too .
Place the vegetables in a large saucepan, add a drizzle of oil and a pinch of salt , then brown on a medium-low flame for 5-7 minutes, stirring occasionally until done. In the meantime clean and coarsely chop the savoy cabbage too .
Add the savoy cabbage to the saucepan , cover with the lid and simmer for a few minutes . Once the savoy cabbage has reduced in volume add the hot vegetable broth .
Peel and dice the potatoes in the meantime . Brown the potatoes in a pan with a drizzle of oil for a few minutes .
When the squash starts to boil add the potatoes , salt to taste and cover with the lid. Simmer for around 30 minutes. Once this time is up , remove from the heat and blend with an immersion blender .
Place the pureed soup in bowls, garnish with croutons, finish with a drizzle of oil and a grating of pepper to taste . Your cabbage and potato soup is ready to be served !
Cabbage and potato soup can be stored in the refrigerator for 3 days, in a sealed container.
You can freeze it if you want.
Toast the croutons in a pan with a drizzle of oil flavored with whatever spices you like!

