name:
Christmas spice cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(250 g)
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- cold
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 1
Honey: ¾tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: ¼tbsp(5 g)
Vanilla extract: 1 ¼tsp(3 g)
Powdered ginger: 1 ¼tsp(3 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1 ¼tsp(3 g)
Baking powder: 1tsp(2 g)
White chocolate: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Heavy cream: ½cup(100 g)- cold
Vanilla extract: 1tbsp(8 g)
Powdered ginger: to taste
Chopped hazelnuts: to taste
Colored sprinkles: 

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 30 mins. pastry rest in the fridge

instructions:
Preparing Christmas cookies at home is a magical moment... a tradition for many families, to be shared even with the little ones. Today we want to show you how to make Christmas spice cookies , a really tasty and aromatic version! The classic pastry is in fact enriched with vanilla, ginger, cinnamon, just like gingerbread. During cooking, these biscuits will release a unique scent that will invade your home. And if all this isn't enough, we show you how to decorate cookies with a white chocolate ganache, to make them even tastier... we're sure no one will be able to resist!
To prepare the Christmas spice cookies , start with the shortcrust pastry: in a large bowl, pour the flour, the diced butter , the brown sugar and the cinnamon .
Also add the ginger powder , the salt and the baking powder .
Start kneading with your hands until you get a "crumble" consistency . At this point add the honey .
Also add the egg and the vanilla extract . Continue kneading .
You will have to obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture . Transfer it on a surface and compact it to form a loaf ,and place it on a sheet of parchment paper .
Cover with another sheet of parchment paper and immediately roll out the pastry to a thickness of about .20" (5 mm) . Transfer to the fridge and let it rest for at least 30 minutes. After that, make the cookies using a pastry ring with a diameter of 2.33" (6 cm) . Place them gradually on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, spacing them apart : with these doses you will get about 30 biscuits. Bake in a preheated static oven at 340 ° F (170°C) for about 15-20 mins.
Meanwhile prepare the ganache. Coarsely chop the white chocolate and melt it in the microwave or in a bain-marie. Pour the vanilla extract , the ginger powder and the cold cream .
Mix well and transfer into a pastry bag without a nozzle . Place in the refrigerator to firm up. As soon as they are ready, take the cookies out of the oven and let them cool completely . Once cold you can decorate them with the ganache . If the ganache is too solid, keep it at room temperature for a few minutes.
Garnish with chopped hazelnuts or colored sprinkles . Christmas spice cookies are ready to enjoy !
Store the Christmas spice cookies in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. Unglazed cookies, on the other hand, can be stored in a tin box for 4-5 days.
You can shape Christmas spice cookies into any shape you like, like stars or gingerbread men!
If you prepare the ganache well in advance by keeping it in the refrigerator, it will be more solid: just leave it at room temperature for 30-60 minutes before using it.

