name:
Eggplant parmigiana
ingredients:
Black eggplants: 3.75lbs(1.7 kg)
Tomato purée: 4cups(1 kg)
Fior di latte mozzarella cheese: 1lb(500 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1 ⅓cup(150 g)- grated
Yellow onions: 1
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:

To make the eggplant parmigiana , start with the sauce. Peel and chop the onion . Add enough olive oil to a pot to cover the bottom and heat . Then add the onion to the pot. Let it brown for a couple of minutes, stirring often so it doesn't burn, then add the tomato purée .
Season with salt and add the basil leaves . Add a little water to the container the tomato purée was in to rinse it, pouring the water into the pot. Let this cook for 45-50 minutes over low heat . In the meantime, cut the fiordilatte cheese into small cubes, setting aside one piece that you’ll use at the end .
Place the cheese cubes to drain in a colander positioned in a bowl , then cover with plastic wrap and set aside: This will allow the excess liquid to drain off . Now, turn to the eggplant: Wash and trim them .


Cut them lengthwise into slices around 1/4 inch (4-5 mm) thick . Once sliced, fry the eggplant in peanut oil that’s been heated to 340°F (170°C), immersing a few slices at a time . As soon as they’ve turned slightly golden, drain on a tray lined with paper towel .
If you run out of space on the tray, place more paper towel on top of the eggplant that are draining to create another layer with the newly fried eggplant . Lastly, move on to the assembly: Start by adding some of the tomato sauce to a 9x13-inch (20x30-cm) baking dish .

Form the first layer by arranging the fried eggplant slices in the dish , then spooning over more sauce , spreading it evenly, and sprinkling in cubes of fiordilatte .
Sprinkle with grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese and some basil leaves . Start a new layer by adding more tomato sauce and fried eggplant slices, which should be arranged facing opposite directions.
Then add more cheese and basil leaves . Repeat these steps until you reach the last layer of eggplant , again adding sauce and the fiordilatte that you set aside, torn into pieces by hand .

Finish off with grated Parmigiano cheese and bake in a conventional oven preheated to 390°F (200°C) for around 30 minutes . When the eggplant parmigiana is finished baking, let it rest for 15-20 minutes before serving .
Store your eggplant parmigiana in the fridge, covered with plastic wrap, for 1-2 days.

It can be frozen after cooking, maybe already divided into portions, and defrosted in the fridge as needed before reheating.
The ideal eggplants for this recipe are large, oval-shaped, with a nice, shiny dark purple color, and they should be firm to the touch – not too hard or too soft. Even long Neapolitan eggplants work well, though.
Since the eggplant varieties you can find nowadays are much less bitter than in the past, you can skip the step of salting and draining the eggplant. You can still do it if you like, remembering to rinse them well before use in the recipe.
As for the different variations of the recipe, some people flour their eggplant or dip them in egg, or do both.
For the cheese you use, on the other hand, you can go for caciocavallo instead of fiordilatte, like they do in Sicily or Calabria.

You might also want to try adding a tasty extra such as sliced hard-boiled eggs.

