name:
Pasta alla Norma
ingredients:
Sedani Rigati pasta: 1lb(500 g)
Eggplant: 1
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: ⅔cup(150 g)- salted
Fine salt: to taste
Tomatoes: 3.33lbs(1.5 kg)
Garlic: 4cloves
Basil: 1bunch
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make pasta alla Norma , first wash and dry the eggplant well, and trim it . Cut it into slices around .30 inch (8 mm) and transfer to a colander .
Sprinkle with salt and leave to drain for at least 15 minutes. In the meantime, turn to the tomatoes: Wash them and remove the stems . Cut in half .
Place in a pot with a pinch of salt , 3 cloves of garlic (you can use fewer if you prefer, but the garlic characterizes pasta alla Norma) , and a handful of basil .
Let this cook over low heat for 30 minutes without adding anything else; the tomatoes will release their liquid . After 30 minutes, remove the garlic and basil . Transfer the tomatoes to a food mill fitted with the finest disc and grind them .
Once you’ve got your purée , transfer it to a pot, add another clove of garlic and a sprig of basil . Let it cook for another 40 minutes, stirring every once in a while.
At this point, you can rinse the eggplant well, drying it with paper towel. Next, pour the extra virgin olive oil in a deep pot and bring it to a temperature of around 340-350°F (170-180°C). Immerse a few slices of eggplant at a time in the oil and turn them every now and then. It will take a few minutes for them to turn nicely golden . At this point, remove the eggplant from the pot with kitchen tweezers and transfer to a tray lined with paper towel . Continue frying the eggplant, and in the meantime, put a pot full of water on the stove, which you’ll use to cook the pasta.
Once the sauce is fairly thick, remove the basil , add a spoonful of the oil the eggplant was cooked in and a drizzle of fresh olive oil .
Cook the pasta until it’s al dente , drain, and pour into the sauce . Flip the pan quickly to cover the pasta with the sauce .
Transfer the pasta to the plates, add the fried eggplant , plenty of grated ricotta salata , a basil leaf, and then your pasta alla Norma is ready to be served !
We recommend eating the pasta alla Norma as soon as you make it.
If the sauce is a little acidic, add a flat teaspoonful of sugar.
Chef Melina from the restaurant U Fucularu has explained to us the simple secrets of the quintessentially traditional pasta alla Norma:
While the ideal tomato to use is the Catanese variety ribbed tomato, you can also use other kinds...
It’s very important to grind it in a food mill with a very fine disc to get a velvety sauce.
For the pasta, you can use sedanini, fusilli, spaghetti... Fresh pasta is best, but you can use dried pasta like we have in this recipe.
The garlic gives the typical flavor to pasta alla Norma, although you can use fewer cloves if you’d like.
The eggplant can be cut into rounds or small cubes, but the traditional version calls for slices.

Just a drop of the eggplant frying oil added to the tomato purée is the secret to a Norma sauce with a sensational flavor!
U Fucularu is a typical, family-run trattoria in Catania that you can’t visit without trying the caponata (fried eggplant and vegetables in sweet and sour sauce). Even The New York Times recommends trying it if you’re in Catania. The same goes for the pasta alla Norma, for the artfully way it’s prepared, using local ingredients, a tribute to the real tradition. Owner Melina cooks using the recipes handed down in her family for generations, giving them her personal touch without betraying Sicilian culinary culture... On the contrary, she brings out its highest expression in flavors and aromas. A place where you can enjoy home cooking and also feel right at home.

