name:
Cannelloni
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1cup(100 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Type 00 flour: 3tbsp(20 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch
Sausage: 0.5lb(200 g)
Pork: 0.66lb(300 g)- ground
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1cup(100 g)- grated
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Onions: 2.75oz(80 g)
Celery: 2oz(60 g)
Carrots: 2.75oz(80 g)
Red wine: 3tbsp(50 g)
Black pepper: 1pinch
Tomato purée: 2cups(300 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2tbsp(15 g)- grated

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the cannelloni, start with the filling. Clean and finely chop the celery, carrot, and onion . Then removing the casing from the sausage and chop the meat using a knife . Now move to the stove. Add a drizzle of oil to a warm pot, then add the sausage and let it brown well .
When it’s nice and golden, pour in the chopped vegetables and stir , then let them sweat for 5-6 minutes. Next, add the ground beef , stir, and turn up the heat. Let the beef brown slowly. Deglaze with the red wine and stir again.
As soon as the alcohol has evaporated, add the tomato purée . Stir to combine everything and rinse the pot with a little water to remove any remaining stuck-on pieces, then season with salt. Cover the pot with a vented lid and leave to cook for an hour , checking on it every once in a while. Meanwhile, make the egg pasta. Pour the flour into a bowl, beat the egg lightly , and then add to the bowl as well.
Work the mixture with your hands to combine all the ingredients . Next, transfer to a pastry board and work it some more until you get a smooth and even, firm and elastic dough . Shape this dough into a ball, wrap in plastic wrap, and leave it to rest for around one hour in a cool, dry place so that it develops the right elasticity.
Now make the béchamel sauce. First, heat the milk, seasoned with the grated nutmeg and salt . Add the butter to another pot and let it melt completely . Sift the flour and, once the butter has melted, add this flour to the butter and stir vigorously .
After a couple of minutes, you’ll get a hazelnut-colored roux. Remove the pot from the heat for a moment and pour in the hot milk . Keep stirring until the béchamel is thick but still fluid , around 4-5 minutes. Transfer the béchamel to a glass bowl and cover with plastic wrap . Once cool, if the sauce is too dense, you can dilute it with a little milk.
Take your egg pasta dough that’s been rested and developed the right elasticity, and divide it in two. Put each half through a dough sheeter , starting with the thicker side and finishing with the thinner one. You need to get a sheet about the thickness of a nickel coin (2 mm). If you don’t have a dough sheeter, you can roll out the dough by hand using a lightly floured rolling pin. Cut the sheets of dough into rectangles measuring 4x5.5 inches (10x14 cm) .
Next, blanch your pasta rectangles one at a time in boiling, slightly salted water , for about 1 minute each. Drain and transfer to a tray covered with a clean kitchen cloth. Be sure to lay the pasta out perfectly, without the rectangles overlapping each other . If you’d like, you can also run them under cold water to stop the cooking process. In the meantime, the ragu will be ready and will have cooled . Set 1/2 lb (250 g) aside.
Add the grated cheese to the remaining ragu and season with pepper . Stir and place in the fridge .
Take one pasta rectangle and fill it with ragu just in the bottom half , leaving about an inch of space from the top edge. Then roll the pasta up onto itself . Seal the pasta to make a cylinder .
Spread a couple of spoonfuls of béchamel on the bottom of a 9x13-inch (20x30-cm) baking dish . Arrange your cannelloni in the dish. Cover with the remaining béchamel and ragu that you set aside, and 2 tbsp of grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese . Bake your cannelloni in a conventional oven preheated to 390°F (200°C) for 15 minutes on the middle rack, and then for 5 minutes at 465°F (240°C) on the highest rack and in broiler mode, until a golden crust forms on top. Now you just have to serve your cannelloni while they’re still hot !
You can store the cannelloni in the fridge in an airtight container for up to 2 days. You can also freeze them if all the ingredients you used were fresh.
For a hand with stuffing your cannelloni, you can also put the filling in a pastry bag to make it easier to distribute it on the pasta rectangles.

