name:
Meat and sausage stuffed peppers
ingredients:
Bell peppers: 4(1100 g)- large
Veal: 0.66lb(300 g)- ground
Sausage: 0.33lb(150 g)
Stale bread: 1cup(100 g)- (white inner part (crumb) only)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: ½cup(50 g)- grated
Provolone cheese: 0.5lb(200 g)
Whole milk: ⅔cup(150 g)
Eggs: 2
Parsley: ⅓cup(10 g)- chopped
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3tbsp(20 g)- grated
Provolone cheese: 0.75oz(20 g)- grated
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
A staple of southern Italian home cooking, stuffed peppers are a delicious, filling dish with a wide range of versions, each more mouth-watering than the last: from vegetarian, filled with a mix of seasonal vegetables, to the rice-stuffed variation that makes for a rich, tasty one-course meal. Thanks to their shape, bell peppers easily turn into delectable shells that can be filled with an appetizing meat-based mixture, softened with bread soaked in milk, just like the way our grandmothers taught us! Baking these stuffed peppers in the oven will ensure that crispy golden crust forms on the top – it will make your mouth water just looking at it!
If you love red peppers you cannot miss these recipes:

To make the meat and sausage stuffed peppers , first cut the stale bread into small cubes , then place the cubes in a bowl and cover them with the milk . Press the bread cubes lightly so they absorb the milk well. Now move on to the peppers: Wash and dry them .
Cut off the tops and remove the pith and seeds . Take the tops, cut around the stem to remove it , and then cut the remaining part of the pepper into small pieces .
Place the ground veal in a large bowl, then remove the casing from the sausage and place the sausage meat in the bowl as well . Take the bread that’s been soaking in the milk and squeeze out the milk well .

Add the bread to the meat and knead thoroughly . Next, grate the provolone cheese
and add this and the grated Grana Padano to the bowl , and knead again using your hands. Now pour in the two eggs and the diced pepper, and knead again .
Season with salt and pepper and add the chopped parsley . Knead everything well until you get an even mixture. Take the peppers, arrange them in a baking dish and fill them to the top with the meat and sausage filling. Press down with the back of a spoon to ensure the filling is stuffed in well .

Pour over a drizzle of oil and cook the peppers on the middle rack of a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C), for 40 minutes. After 40 minutes have passed, remove the peppers from the oven, sprinkle them with the grated Grana Padano and provolone cheeses . Return the peppers to the oven, placing them under the broiler at 465°F (240°C) for 3-4 minutes. Once the cheese has melted, remove them from the oven, garnish with basil leaves and serve .

These meat and sausage stuffed peppers can be stored for 1-2 days in the refrigerator. Not suitable for freezing.

Emmental cheese, zucchini, eggplant, peas, and scamorza cheese are just some of the tasty ingredients that you can use to jazz up the filling for your stuffed peppers!

