name:
Gluten-free Christmas cookies
ingredients:
Rice flour: 1cup(175 g)
Corn flour: 1cup(175 g)
Butter: ⅓cup(90 g)- softened
Brown sugar: ½cup(120 g)
Egg yolks: 2(30 g)
Eggs: 1(55 g)- medium
Fine salt: to taste
Cinnamon powder: to taste
Powdered ginger: to taste
Lemon peel: 1
Orange peel: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 2 min
Cook time: 2 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Every year we look forward to making Christmas cookies, to give away for the holidays! Today we show you how to make gluten-free Christmas cookies , perfect for those who are intolerant! The spiced shortbread with cinnamon and ginger, as tradition dictates, is made with rice flour and cornmeal instead of the classic 00 flour. You will get really delicious and crumbly biscuits, perfect to serve with a hot chocolate or a good tea. You can leave the cookie natural, or decorate them with royal icing, sugar paste or even water-based icing. Make many different shapes and let your imagination run wild, together with the little ones too!
To prepare the gluten-free Christmas cookies , pour the soft butter , the brown sugar and a teaspoon of ginger into a bowl.
Also add a teaspoon of ground cinnamon , the grated lemon and orange zest.
Add a pinch of salt and mix with an electric whisk until you have a homogeneous mixture. Add the whole egg and mix again.
Also add the 2 egg yolks and work again until they are incorporated . Add the rice flour and the corn flour .
Mix again with the whisk until the two flours are well absorbed . Once you have a homogeneous mixture, transfer it to a surface and compact it . Form a loaf, wrap it in plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator.
Once the shortcrust pastry has hardened, take it back from the refrigerator . Transfer it onto a floured board and roll it out with a rolling pin until you obtain a thickness of .5" (1 cm) .
Shape the cookies, using the molds of your choice and place them gradually on a baking tray lined with parchment paper . Bake in a preheated static oven at 365 ° F (185°C) for 12-15 minutes. When they are well browned, take them out of the oven , let them cool and serve them as they are, or have fun decorating them with royal icing.
They keep in a tightly closed box or tightly sealed glass container for about 2 weeks.
It is possible to add 1.5 tbsp (10 g) of cocoa to the cookies by eliminating 1.5 tbsp (15 g) of corn flour for a more delicious cookies!

