name:
Chocolate toffee tartlets
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ⅓cup(150 g)
Sugar: ⅓cup(75 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(50 g)- Cold from the fridge
Eggs: 1(50 g)- (medium, cold from the fridge)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: ¼cup(25 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Heavy cream: ¼cup(50 g)- at room temperature
Water: 2tbsp(25 g)
Butter: 2tsp(10 g)- at room temperature
Dark chocolate: ⅓cup(50 g)
Heavy cream: ¼cup(60 g)
Honey: 1tsp
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + at least 30 minutes of rest of the dough in the refrigerator

instructions:
In the kitchen there are ingredients that are made to stay together, pairs of indissoluble flavors that make every recipe a certainty. For the savory we think of ham and cheese or ricotta and spinach; for dessert, coconut and Nutella or strawberries and Champagne come to mind… But for the sweet tooth, we have chosen a truly dizzying combination: chocolate toffee tartlets ! A sin of gluttony in single-portion format made with a cocoa shortbread base that encloses a very sweet layer of toffee sauce, hidden in turn by a covering of ganache cream. The creaminess of dark chocolate envelops the unmistakable sweetness of caramel in a voluptuous and seductive embrace, enhanced on the finish by the savory note of salt flakes. An unexpected but pleasant contrast, which gives the dessert a balanced, intense and harmonious taste. And that gives us a further certainty: with the chocolate toffee tartlets it will be love at first bite!
To make the chocolate toffee tartlets , start with the preparation of the shortcrust pastry: put the cold butter from the fridge and the sugar in a planetary mixer fitted with a leaf attachment and mix at low speed to reduce them to a smooth cream . While the mixer is running, add the medium whole egg
and immediately, with a spoon, gradually pour in the flour mixed and sifted together with the bitter cocoa . Work the dough as little as possible, just long enough to obtain a homogeneous mixture . Transfer the mixture to the work surface and very quickly form a loaf by hand (just compact the pastry) ; Wrap the cocoa shortcrust pastry in transparent film and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes.
After the rest time, preheat the oven to 392 °F (200°C) in static mode. While the oven reaches the required temperature, roll out the dough with a rolling pin on a lightly floured surface to a thickness of about 5 mm. Take a pastry ring with a diameter of 11 cm and cut 4 discs from the dough obtained . Place each disc inside a tartlet mold with a scalloped edge with a diameter of 10 cm , then prick the bottom with the prongs of a fork . Bake the tartlets in the preheated static oven at 392 °F (200°C) for about 20 minutes (times may vary slightly based on the power of your oven), placing them on the middle shelf. When they are ready, take them out and let them cool.
While the tartlets are in the oven, prepare the toffee sauce: pour the water into a saucepan, add the sugar and stir to mix the two ingredients well , then light the heat and let it come to a boil over medium heat without stirring anymore. When the mixture has taken on a not too dark amber color , remove the saucepan from the heat
and pour the heavy cream a little at a time, mixing in the meantime with a wooden spoon; take care to add the cream gradually as indicated, paying close attention to the steam and bubbles that will form (13-14). Finally, add the piece of butter
and continue to mix to mix it with the mixture . Take the now cold tartlets , take them out of the mold and fill them with a couple of tablespoons of toffee sauce on the bottom . Let cool to room temperature.
At this point take care of the ganache: chop the dark chocolate with a knife , then heat the heavy cream in a saucepan over low heat with the addition of a teaspoon of honey ; when the cream has come to touch the boil, remove it from the heat and add the chopped dark chocolate ,
stirring with a whisk until completely dissolved . If necessary, you can puree the mixture with an immersion blender to obtain a smoother consistency. Once ready, pour the ganache over the toffee sauce layer until it reaches the edge of the tartlets , then garnish with salt flakes to taste. Your chocolate toffee tartlets are ready to be enjoyed !
The tartlets with chocolate and toffee heart can be stored outside the refrigerator for a maximum of 2 days.
The pastry can be frozen raw, wrapped in plastic wrap.
As an alternative to salt flakes, you can garnish the tartlets with chocolate and toffee heart with slightly sweet fruit such as currants or other berries! If, on the other hand, you like the salty note but not the consistency of salt flakes, you can prepare the toffee sauce directly with salted butter.

