name:
Baked sausage and butternut squash trofie
ingredients:
Trofie pasta: 1lb(500 g)- fresh
Butternut squash.: 2.25lbs(1 kg)
Sausage: 0.66lb(300 g)
Provolone cheese: 0.25lb(100 g)
Water: 1cup(200 g)
Dry white wine: 3tbsp(40 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Butter: 1 ¾tbsp(25 g)
Type 00 flour: 2tbsp(15 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2tbsp- grated

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Trofie are a type of pasta from Liguria that are traditionally served with pesto, but really, they’re ideal for making lots of other first course dishes, too! This recipe for baked sausage and butternut squash trofie is a tempting idea for your autumn menus: The creamy butternut squash and béchamel-based sauce is livened up with bite-sized pieces of sausage with rosemary and cubes of melting cheese. And baking this dish au gratin will make it even more enticing! Try this baked sausage and butternut squash trofie for Sunday lunch or dinner with friends... The dish will be empty before you know it!

To make the baked sausage and butternut squash trofie pasta, first clean the butternut squash by removing the skin and inner strands . Then cut the flesh into ½-inch (1-cm) cubes ; you’ll need around 1¾ lbs (780 g) of flesh. Add a drizzle of oil to a pan and let it infuse with a clove of garlic and a sprig of rosemary .

Next, add the squash and let it brown for a few minutes , and then remove the garlic and rosemary . Pour in the water and cook over low heat for 10-15 minutes or until the squash has softened. Season with salt.
Once the squash has cooked , set a few spoonfuls aside and then blend the rest using an immersion blender to get a smooth, even purée .

While the squash is cooking, start making the béchamel sauce: Heat the milk, seasoned with salt and nutmeg , in one saucepan and melt the butter in another. Once the butter has melted , add the flour all at once .

Whisk for a couple of minutes until you get a golden roux , then pour in the warm milk and let the béchamel thicken over heat while continuing to whisk . The sauce should be runny and velvety.

Now prepare the other ingredients: Remove the casing from the sausage and cut the meat into small cubes ; do the same with the provolone cheese , and then chop the rosemary . Bring a pot of water to a boil and salt once boiling.

Heat a splash of oil in a frying pan with one clove of garlic, then add the sausage and brown for a couple of minutes . Season with the chopped rosemary , then deglaze the pan with the white wine .
Once the alcohol has evaporated, turn off the heat and set aside . Meanwhile, the water for the pasta should have come to a boil, so add the trofie and cook for half the recommended time . While the pasta is cooking, add the béchamel to the butternut squash purée .

Stir well to combine , and when the pasta is ready, drain and pour into the pan with the sauce . Then add the squash cubes you set aside .

Next, add the sausage and provolone cubes and season with pepper .
Stir well and transfer the mixture to a baking dish . Sprinkle over the grated Grana Padano cheese and cook in a conventional oven preheated to 465°F (240°C) for 10 minutes, until golden. Your baked sausage and butternut squash trofie is ready to be served !
The baked sausage and butternut squash trofie pasta can be stored in the fridge for 2 days.

You can freeze this dish either before or after baking it.
You can also add cubes of speck or pancetta to make the baked sausage and butternut squash trofie pasta even tastier!

Instead of béchamel, you can use roughly the same amount of heavy cream.

