name:
Soft chocolate tart
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: ⅔cup(100 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 3(130 g)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(85 g)
Sugar: ½cup(80 g)
Baking powder: ¾tsp(2.5 g)
Milk Chocolate: 1 ¼cup(215 g)
Heavy cream: ½cup(120 g)
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Berries: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time

instructions:
Once upon a time there was the classic tart, then the soft one and today we want to tell you about another variant: the soft chocolate tart ! This version is terribly greedy because the chocolate is the real protagonist of this dessert. In fact it is present in the soft base and in the cover which is based on milk chocolate ganache. As for the classic one, the soft chocolate tart is cooked inside the very famous "smart mold". This particular mold has a slightly raised bottom, this way the soft tart will have a perfect cavity to be filled with the cream you love most!
To prepare the soft chocolate tart , put the butter out of the refrigerator and make sure it is soft before starting the preparation. At this point, chop the dark chocolate , place it in a bowl and melt it in a bain-marie ; alternatively you can use the microwave, just activate it for a few seconds at a time and mix gradually so that it does not burn.
With the heat off, add the diced butter and mix vigorously to mix it completely .
Keep aside and whisk the eggs adding the sugar little by little . It will take about 10 minutes to get a clear and puffy mixture. At this point add the melted chocolate with the butter .
Continue to work everything at medium speed . Now sift the flour and baking powder directly into the bowl and incorporate the powders with an electric whisk, this time at low speed .
As soon as you have obtained a uniform mixture , transfer it into the previously buttered and floured 9" (24 cm) mold on the surface and 8.66" (22 cm) on the base. Level the surface and cook in a preheated static oven at 355°F (180°C) for 30 minutes.
Once the cake is cooked (always do the toothpick test) take it out of the oven , let it cool down then turn it upside down on a serving plate . Gently lift the mold, let it cool and in the meantime prepare the ganache cream.
Pour the cream into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Meanwhile, finely chop the milk chocolate and transfer it to a bowl. As soon as the cream is hot, pour a small amount on the chocolate .
Mix immediately , then add the remaining cream in 2 times and continue to mix gently until the mixture is smooth, taking care not to incorporate air . Put the ganache in the refrigerator for 10-15 minutes so that it reaches the right texture.
At this point, pour the ganache into the cavity of the cake and distribute it evenly over the entire surface . Decorate with berries and mint leaves and serve your soft chocolate tart .
The soft chocolate tart can be kept for 2 days in the refrigerator, under a glass bell jar.
Alternatively, the soft chocolate tart can be frozen for about a month.
Want to contrast the sweet taste of chocolate? Use roasted and salted peanuts instead of berries!
Add a little liqueur to the ganache and serve the soft tart with a scoop of vanilla ice cream!
Milk chocolate can be replaced by dark chocolate, but in this case you will have to balance the dose of cream.

