name:
Pumpkin lasagna
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 0.5lb(200 g)- (15 sheets)
Smoked scamorza cheese: 1lb(400 g)
Fior di latte mozzarella cheese: 0.5lb(200 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1cup(100 g)- grated
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Sage: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(1 l)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(100 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Pumpkin: 4lbs(1.8 kg)
Garlic: 3cloves
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the pumpkin lasagna , start with the béchamel sauce. Pour the milk into a saucepan and add the nutmeg , salt, and black pepper . Bring to a boil.

In the meantime, add the butter cut into cubes in another large pot and let it melt. Once the butter has melted, add the flour all at once . Stir quickly with a whisk until you get a nice golden roux .
Next, add the warm milk , continuing to whisk. Cook until the béchamel has thickened , then set aside. Now move on to the pumpkin: Peel it and remove the inner seeds. Then cut it into ½-inch (1-cm) cubes . You should end up with nearly 2 lbs of cubes (850 g).
Next, add some oil to a pot along with the chopped sprig of rosemary , a peeled, crushed garlic clove and add this to the pot, too. Allow the flavors to develop over medium heat and then add the pumpkin cubes .
Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg . Stir well, let the pumpkin brown and then cover with a lid . Lower the heat and leave to cook for 15-20 minutes. There’s no need to add water or broth because the pumpkin will release its own water, which will be enough to soften it, although remember to check to make sure it doesn’t dry out too much due to the heat being too high. It’s a good idea to stir it once in a while, in any case. The pumpkin will be nice and soft once it’s cooked: If you can mash it easily with a wooden spoon, that means it’s ready. While the pumpkin is cooking, cut the scamorza cheese into small cubes .
Then do the same thing with the fiordilatte cheese . As soon as the pumpkin is ready, pour half of it into the béchamel and mix well .
Now assemble the lasagna: Pour a thin layer of béchamel and pumpkin into a 9x13-inch (20x30-cm) baking dish, then cover with 3 sheets of lasagna arranged side by side , and finally add another layer of pumpkin béchamel. Add some of the diced scamorza ,

then some of the mozzarella , a sprinkling of Grana Padano , and some diced pumpkin . Cover with another layer of lasagna sheets. Repeat these steps until you’ve made 5 layers.

Cover the final layer of pasta well with béchamel, cheese, and pumpkin, finishing off with some sage leaves . Add some pepper, a drizzle of oil , and cook in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C), for around 30 minutes. If the surface of the lasagna doesn’t look very golden toward the end of the cooking time, put it under the broiler for a few minutes. Let your pumpkin lasagna rest for a few minutes between taking it out of the oven and dishing it up .
You can keep your pumpkin lasagna in the fridge, covered, for up to two days, or freeze it either before or after it’s cooked.

A good pumpkin is characterized by a certain sweetness that it’s good to balance with garlic and rosemary; if you want to take it up a notch, add some crushed red pepper and use Pecorino Romano cheese instead of Grana Padano. Use your choice of cheeses: pecorino, Taleggio, Gruyere, and toma are all some good alternatives.

