name:
Air fryer calamari
ingredients:
Calamari (squid): 2lbs(880 g)- (8 pieces)
Instant flour for polenta: ½cup(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 3
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare air fryer calamari , first clean the calamari. Pull the tentacles away and keep them aside. Empty the inside of the mantle, extract the cartilage and peel the squid .
Take back the tentacles, cut the part of the eyes and remove the beak that is in the center. Continue in this way until all the squids are cleaned . Rinse them and cut the squid into 2 cm rings . If the tentacles are large, cut them in half. Once cleaned you will get 1.33 lbs (620 g).
Transfer the squids onto some sheets of kitchen paper , place another one on top and dry them well .
Transfer half of the squids into a bowl and season them with a little oil . Mix well and then add half of the cornmeal . Mix again, until all the squids are breaded . Distribute the breaded squid rings in the basket of the air fryer, spray them with a little oil on the surface and cook at 390°F (200°C) for 13 minutes. After 7 minutes, shake the basket and continue cooking for another 6 minutes or until you get nice golden squid rings on the surface. Meanwhile, repeat the operation with the other 4 squids.
Distribute the breaded squid rings in the basket of the air fryer , we used a 7 liter one. It is important not to overlap the squid. Sprinkle the surface with a little oil and cook at 390°F (200°C) for 13 minutes. After 7 minutes, shake the basket and continue cooking for another 6 minutes or until you get nice golden squid rings on the surface . In the meantime, also panate the other squids and cook them in the same way. Serve the air fryer calamari hot .
We recommend consuming the calamari piping hot.
If your fryer is very large, you can cook all the calamari at once at 390°F (200°C) for about 20 minutes, turning them halfway through cooking.
If you want to use frozen squid, thaw them completely and dry them well before coating them.

