name:
Spaghetti with mussels and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 0.75lb(320 g)
Mussels: 2lbs(1 kg)
Cherry tomatoes: 1lb(400 g)
Parsley: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 1
White wine: ½cup(75 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Undisputed protagonists of the impepata , mussels are one of the most loved seafood! Today we show you how to use them to prepare a tasty fish first course: spaghetti with mussels and cherry tomatoes , a dish with simple tastes, very easy to prepare! As pasta shape we have chosen spaghetti which in our opinion go very well with the sauce, but if you prefer you can use short pasta, even if we are sure that spaghetti with mussels will please everyone! A recipe that smells like the sea, quick to prepare, truly irresistible... let's find out how to prepare it together!
To prepare spaghetti with mussels and cherry tomatoes , start by cleaning the mussels. Then rinse them and, still under running water, remove the barnacles and all the impurities present with a knife , then remove the byssus, i.e. the beard you find on the side of each mussel, simply by tearing it with your fingers ( 2). Throw away any open or broken mussels. Clean the surface of the mussels with a scourer .
Then rinse them well and drain them. In a large saucepan, pour the oil, a clove of garlic, the chilli pepper and a sprig of parsley . Cook for a couple of minutes, then add the mussels .
Pour in the white wine and cover with a lid . Cook in this way for 3-4 minutes, so as to allow the mussels to open completely . During cooking, shake the pan from time to time to stir the inside.
When all the mussels are open, transfer them to a bowl and eliminate the smells. Put a pot full of salted water on the fire, which will be used to cook the pasta. Wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them in half . If they are very large, cut them into 4. In the same pan where you just cooked the mussels, pour a drizzle of oil, a clove of garlic and cook for a minute.
Pour in the cherry tomatoes , season with salt and pepper. Cover with a lid and cook over low heat for 5 minutes. In the meantime, shell the mussels and filter the cooking liquid.
After 5 minutes, remove the lid and pour the mussel water into the cherry tomatoes . As soon as the pasta water has boiled, cook the spaghetti .
Drain them al dente and transfer them to the pan with the sauce . Mix well to finish cooking and add the shelled mussels .
Season with salt and pepper . Add some chopped parsley , mix again and serve your spaghetti with mussels and cherry tomatoes !
We recommend consuming spaghetti at the moment. Alternatively, you can keep them in the refrigerator for a day.
Pay attention to the amount of salt you use because the mussels cooking water is very tasty.

