name:
Bucatini with zucchini flowers, guanciale and saffron
ingredients:
Bucatini pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Guanciale: 7oz(220 g)
Zucchini flowers: 20
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2oz(80 g)- (for grating)
Pecorino cheese: 2oz(80 g)- (for grating)
Whole milk: 3tbsp(40 g)
Saffron: 1pinch
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
With the recipe for bucatini with zucchini flowers, guanciale and saffron you'll make a superlative first course with minimum effort! The secret to a thick and flavorsome sauce lies in the creaming of the bucatini pasta, which is then stirred with the grated cheese. The zucchini flowers are added uncooked so that they do not lose their delicate consistency, whereas the crispy guanciale adds a savory flavor to each forkful, without forgetting the saffron, which embellishes the entire dish with its golden color and unmistakable aroma! Is your mouth already watering just at the sight of them? Then hurry up and prepare some bucatini with zucchini flowers, guanciale and saffron !
To make bucatini with pumpkin flowers, guanciale and saffron , remove the pistils from the pumpkin flowers and cut them in three lengthwise ; leave them whole if they are small. Leave the pumpkin flowers to one side and place the grated Parmigiano and Pecorino cheese in a bowl .
Add a little pepper and salt , then the milk , and stir with the fork . Heat some water in a saucepan for cooking the pasta.
Now prepare the guanciale: remove the rind, cut into slices and then into strips . Place the jowl in a pan without adding any other fat and brown until crispy and golden. Now remove the guanciale with a colander and leave the cooking sauce in the pan .
Place the guanciale on absorbent paper and cook the bucatini in the boiling salted water for 2-3 minutes, just enough for them to soften . In the meantime, dilute the saffron in a little cooking water .
Drain the bucatini and add them to the pan with the guanciale fat , then add 2 ladles of the cooking water and the saffron ; stir thoroughly.
Cream the pasta by adding some more cooking water as needed, stirring all the while . Once cooked, remove from the heat and add the mixture of cheese , followed by the pumpkin flowers .
Amalgamate the sauce by stirring vigorously . Place on dishes and garnish with the crispy jowl and a grating of pepper. Your bucatini with pumpkin flowers, guanciale and saffron are ready to be served !
Bucatini with zucchini flowers, guanciale and saffron are best enjoyed freshly prepared. If necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator for one day.
Don't add too much salt to the cheese cream, because Pecorino cheese is already quite salty.

