name:
Potato chicche with taleggio cheese, mushrooms and sausage
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2lbs(1 kg)
Type 00 flour: 3cups(300 g)
Eggs: 1- (1 medium)
Semolina: to taste
Sausage: 13oz(370 g)
Portobello mushrooms: 5oz(140 g)
Taleggio cheese: 10oz(300 g)
White wine: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Potato chicche with taleggio cheese, mushrooms and sausage is an enveloping and inviting first course, an appetizing idea for enriching your table with the colors and flavors of autumn. We have made mini gnocchi at home just for you, chicche to be exact, flavored with a superlative sauce characterized by a creamy consistency. After cooking the sausage and portobello mushrooms, all you'll need is a handful of taleggio cheese cubes to create that melty, velvety touch that will envelop your chicche.
Check out also these gnocchi recipes:
To make potato chicche with taleggio cheese, mushrooms and sausage , start by preparing the chicche: wash the potatoes without peeling them, place them in a pan with salted water and boil them . Peel and mash them with a potato masher while still hot, then place them on a work top, where you will have already added the flour, shaped into a well . Add one egg and knead.
Do not knead for too long otherwise the mixture will harden, just enough to form a single piece . Remove parts of the dough and shape them into strips that are roughly 0.4 inches thick . Cut each strip into 0.6 inch pieces using a knife (or a spatula) .
Place the chicche on a tray dredged with the semolina . Decase and with a knife, coarsely chop the sausages; leave to one side .
Clean the mushrooms with a cloth and remove the soil-covered tip, then cut into slices . Dice the taleggio cheese . Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the sausage and brown for 3-4 minutes on a high flame.
Add the white wine , simmer and reduce, then add the mushrooms and cook for around 3-5 minutes. In the meantime, bring the water to the boil and add the chicche .
Add the taleggio cheese to the pan too , as well as a ladle of cooking water so that it melts .
As the chicche rise to the surface, drain and add them to the pan . Lastly, add the thyme leaves and flavor with a sprinkling of black pepper . Potato chicche with taleggio cheese fondue, mushrooms and sausage are ready .
We recommend enjoying potato chicche with taleggio cheese fondue, mushrooms and sausage freshly made.
Potato chicche can be stored uncooked: leave them on a cloth for a couple of hours at most: they will take longer to cook because they will have dried out a little in the air. Chicche can also be frozen: place the tray in the freezer and after around 20 minutes place the potato chicche in a freezer bag; repeat until you have frozen them all. To cook, simply place them in boiling salted water, without defrosting.
We used portobello mushrooms here, but you can use different ones based on local availability and your taste!

