name:
Lentil stew
ingredients:
Dried lentils: 1lb(500 g)
Tomato purée: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Yellow onions: ½
Garlic: 1clove
Bay leaves: 3
Rosemary: to taste
Sage: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Lentil stew are a simple, wholesome dish. Today, we’ve got a recipe for you that’s really a snap to prepare, made in the most classic way, with finely chopped vegetables and the addition of tomato purée. You can serve these lentil stew as a side dish, over pasta, or use them to make lots of other tasty dishes. They’re something that’s a staple on tables on New Year’s Eve, accompanying a tasty cotechino sausage to follow the Italian traditions of best wishes for the new year. Of course, you can also eat stewed lentils on other occasions – any time is a good time for some healthy, flavorful comfort food!

To make the lentil stew , start with the vegetable mixture. Trim the carrot and chop into cubes of around 1/8” (4 mm) . Do the same with the celery and onion . Next, chop the onion again to cut it into even smaller dice . Tie the aromatic herbs together with some string to form a small bunch.

Add a good glug of oil to a large pot, followed by the chopped vegetables and an unpeeled clove of garlic . Let this brown over low heat for 5-7 minutes, until the vegetables are very soft. Rinse the lentils well under running water, then add them to the pot , along with the bunch of herbs .
Now add the tomato purée . Fill the container the purée was in with water to rinse it, adding this water to the pot slowly until the lentils are covered . You’ll need around 1 1/4 cups (300 ml) of water. Stir and then leave to cook over low heat, covered, for 45-60 minutes . While the lentils are cooking, you’ll need to stir them every once in a while and add more water when they start to get dry; in total, you should add around another 2 cups (500 ml) of water. After 45 minutes have passed, taste the lentils to check the consistency and whether you need to cook them for longer.
Toward the end of the cooking time, adjust with water as needed. Season with salt and pepper , remove the bunch of aromatic herbs and clove of garlic . Serve the lentils hot or warm, finishing off the plates with a drizzle of olive oil and chopped rosemary and pepper to taste .

The stewed lentils can be kept in the fridge for a couple of days at most. Otherwise, it is possible to freeze them.
To stew the lentils, you’ll need to add around 20 minutes to the cooking time stated on the packaging for boiling them, so the time needed to stew them will depend on the variety of lentils that you use.

If you have vegetable broth to hand, you can add that to the lentils instead of water. It’s easy to turn these stewed lentils into a tasty soup: Just add more water or broth and accompany with some croutons! To put a spicy twist on your stewed lentils, add a piece of chopped ginger to the vegetable mixture and don’t hold back on the turmeric while they’re cooking!

