name:
Creamy pasta and chickpeas
ingredients:
Ditalini: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Precooked chickpeas: 2cups(500 g)- (drained weight)
Shallot: 1
Tomato paste: 1spoonful
Sage: to taste
Water: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)- (to grate)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pasta and chickpeas is a rustic and genuine comfort food to share with the whole family... even in this appetizing version: creamy pasta and chickpeas! An equally simple and nutritious first course but with an extra creamy touch, as part of the legumes is blended and mixed with the rest of the ingredients at the end of cooking. This way you will obtain a soft and velvety texture, thanks also to the starch released by the pasta which is cooked in the same pot as the chickpeas. Moreover, the process of stirring with oil and grated cheese cannot be missed, ensuring you a creamy pasta and chickpeas that couldn't be creamier!
Also try these other versions, each more delicious than the last:

To make the creamy pasta and chickpeas, first finely chop the shallot and sauté it with a splash of oil in a pot . When the shallot is softened, scent the base with a few sage leaves .
Add the tomato paste and mix well . At this point, add the drained chickpeas .
Cover with just enough water , salt and pepper , then cover with the lid and cook over low heat for about 20 minutes .
After this time, take a portion of the chickpeas and transfer them into a cup along with some of their cooking liquid. Set aside temporarily and pour the pasta into the pot : check that they are just covered by the liquid and add more water if necessary, preferably hot . Cook the pasta for the time indicated on the package, stirring occasionally.
In the meantime, take back the chickpeas you set aside and blend them with an immersion blender to turn them into a cream . After the pasta's cooking time, pour the chickpea cream into the pot and mix well to combine it .
Now turn off the heat and stir with a generous amount of oil and the grated Grana Padano DOP . Mix everything and serve your creamy pasta and chickpeas immediately, finishing the dishes with a drizzle of raw oil, a grind of pepper, and a few sage leaves !
It is recommended to consume the creamy pasta and chickpeas immediately after preparation; otherwise, it will tend to thicken quickly.
If necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator for 2 days and reheat it with a little added water.
We chose to cook the pre-cooked chickpeas for about twenty minutes because this way they will be well-flavored and become even more tender: however, if you are in a hurry, you can reduce the cooking time and just wait for the first boil before adding the pasta.
For a stronger flavor, you can replace the shallot with a clove of garlic.
Season the creamy pasta and chickpeas with spices to your liking, such as curry, cumin, or freshly grated ginger!

