name:
Creamy pasta with mushrooms, speck and brie
ingredients:
Rigatoni: 11oz(320 g)
Portobello mushrooms: 4oz(125 g)
Champignon mushrooms: 4oz(125 g)
Speck: 6oz(180 g)
Brie cheese: 6oz(180 g)
Whipping cream: 1cup(400 g)
Thyme: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
A fool-proof method to make pasta with a super creamy sauce? Cream and cheese will do the trick, which is why we present you with creamy pasta with mushrooms, speck and brie, a mouth watering first course! Mountain flavors richly envelop the rigatoni pasta, characterized by the unique taste of brie and the delicate aroma of thyme. A robust recipe that makes a good impression, perfect for dinner with friends on those early autumn evenings. Serve creamy pasta with mushrooms, speck and brie with a bottle of good red wine and... buon appetito!
If you liked this recipe, don't miss these too:
To make creamy pasta with mushrooms, speck and brie, start by cleaning the mushrooms; slice the portobello ones and cut the champignons into 4 pieces . Cut the speck into strips .
Lastly, finely dice the brie . Heat a drizzle of oil in a large pan with a sprig of thyme , then add the champignon mushrooms and cook for a few minutes on a high flame.
Add the portobello mushrooms and saut? for another 2-3 minutes, then flavor with pepper , add the speck and remove the sprig of thyme. Brown for a few minutes on a high flame.
Now add the liquid milk and reduce by around half: this will take around 5-10 minutes, depending on the intensity of the flame . In the meantime, bring some water to the boil in a saucepan and add salt when it starts to boil; cook the rigatoni so that they are very firm to the bite .
Once the cream is reduced, remove from the heat, add the brie and stir to fully dissolve , then drain the pasta and add it straight to the pan .
Finish cooking the pasta by adding a few ladles of the cooking water and stir to amalgamate everything . Your creamy pasta with mushrooms, speck and brie is ready to be served piping hot !
Creamy pasta with mushrooms, speck and brie is best served right away. If you prefer, you can prepare the sauce beforehand, just add a little water as needed, when you heat it up.
Use whatever mushroom varieties you prefer!

