name:
Bavette with pesto
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Garlic: ½clove
Coarse salt: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(100 g)
Basil: 5tbsp(50 g)
Pecorino cheese: ¼cup(30 g)- (grated)
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(15 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ⅔cup(70 g)- (grated)
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Fancy a fresh and aromatic dish that would be perfect for your menu? Then bavette with pesto are the classic recipe you were looking for! Pesto, the cornerstone of Ligurian cuisine, is an extremely versatile sauce that is unfailingly popular at the table. It can be used to make excellent first courses, such as lasagna, and to embellish pasta dishes with its rich and unmistakable flavor. Pesto unleashes all the goodness and freshness of basil leaves, creating a creamy sauce that exalts the beautiful flavors and colors of Mediterranean cuisine!
What can you pair pesto with? Here are some further ideas:
To prepare bavette with pesto , start with the Genoese pesto; after picking the basil leaves, remember not to wash them under running water, but clean them with a soft cloth, or place them in a bowl of cold water and rinse delicately . Now place the peeled garlic in the mortar, together with a few grains of coarse salt. Start grinding and upon obtaining a garlic cream ,
add the basil leaves along with a pinch of coarse salt . Crush the basil leaves against the sides of the mortar by rolling the pestle left to right and rolling the mortar in the opposite direction (right to left) ; continue to coax a green liquid from the basil leaves .
Now add the pine nuts and crush into a cream. Gradually add the cheese for an even creamier sauce, and then last of all, gradually add the extravirgin olive oil , stirring with the pestle all the while.
Thoroughly amalgamate all the ingredients into a homogeneous sauce . Bring abundant salted water to the boil in a saucepan and cook the pasta . Now place the pesto in a large pan (remove from the heat) and temper with a little pasta cooking water .
Stir with a spatula (13-14) and as soon as the pasta is ready, add it straight to the pesto ;
stir to flavor the dish (16-17) and lastly, serve your bavette with pesto garnished with a few basil leaves .
Bavette with pesto are best enjoyed freshly prepared, or they can be stored in the refrigerator for no longer than 1 day, in a sealed container. Store any leftover pesto in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, or in the freezer in small freezer boxes.
Don't despair if you don't have a mortar: use a blender (with plastic blades if possible); place the cup and blades in the refrigerator an hour before use. To prevent the pesto from overheating, blend it at the lowest speed and in quick busts: blend for a few seconds, stop and then blend once more.

