name:
Pumpkin and gorgonzola pasta
ingredients:
Pumpkin: 2lbs(1 kg)
Gorgonzola cheese: 0.5lb(200 g)
Ditalini: 0.75lb(320 g)
Amaretti cookies: 5
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Garlic: 4cloves
Bay leaves: 4leaves
Onions: ½
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ⅔cup(70 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pumpkin and gorgonzola pasta is a first course that recalls autumn flavors and satisfies our desire for creaminess at the table. For an enveloping result we have chosen a small pasta format which, through "risotto" cooking, will allow the aromas to be better absorbed. To the typical pasta with pumpkin we have added some sweet gorgonzola, which with its blue notes dampens the sweetness of the pumpkin creating a perfect balance of flavors.
To prepare the pumpkin and gorgonzola pasta , first take the pumpkin, open it in half and remove all the seeds with the help of a spoon . Then remove the peel .
Cut the pumpkin into cubes . Transfer it to a pan. Salt it and add garlic, thyme, rosemary, bay leaf and a drizzle of oil . Put it in the oven and cook for about 30 minutes in a preheated static oven at 355°F (180°C) .
Once the pumpkin is cooked, remove the aromas and blend it well with a blender until creamy .
Peel and chop an onion very finely . In a fairly large pot pour plenty of oil and the onion. Fry over moderate heat .
Add the pumpkin and two ladles of water . Add the ditalini and cook.
Add water whenever necessary and add salt during cooking . In the meantime, cut the gorgonzola into cubes and add it to the pot over the heat off together with the grated Parmigiano Reggiano .
Mix well until everything is well blended . Serve by crumbling the macaroons on the plates . The pumpkin and gorgonzola pasta is ready to be tasted .
We recommend consuming the pumpkin and gorgonzola pasta immediately, if you have leftover you can keep it in the fridge for a day. We do not recommend freezing.
This pasta shape is ideal for "risotto" cooking which allows you to better absorb all the flavors.
By cooking the pumpkin in the oven with aromas, it will not only be more aromatic but it will be of the ideal consistency to then obtain a fragrant and creamy first course.
If you are vegetarian, and in addition to the consumption of meat and fish excludes cheeses made with animal rennet, you can replace the ingredient with a similar cheese made with vegetable rennet.

