name:
Halloween brain cheesecake
ingredients:
Dry chocolate cookies: 6.5oz(180 g)
Butter: 2oz(60 g)
Raspberries: 1lb(400 g)
Sugar: 4.5oz(130 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Isinglass: 0.5oz(12 g)
Cream cheese: 0.75lb(350 g)
Heavy cream: 6oz(170 g)
Powdered sugar: 2.5oz(70 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 5 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the firming time (at least 3 h)

instructions:
Halloween treats can be truly creepy: there are the funniest ones, like meringue bones, and the more macabre ones, like the chocolate graves… or the Halloween brain cheesecake !  A scary-looking cheesecake that will literally make all the guests shiver. Only those who have the courage to taste it will discover that behind the appearance there is a delicate raspberry jelly lying on a cocoa base and covered with fresh cream cheese. Made in a mini version and decorated with a raspberry sauce, the Halloween Brain Cheesecake is a no-bake themed cake that will delight even the most impressionable palates!
Discover how easy it is to make at home and also try out these Halloween recipes:
To make the Halloween brain cheesecake , first prepare the raspberry sauce: pour the raspberries and sugae in a saucepan , add water and bring to a boil. Cook over low heat for about ten minutes, stirring often .
Meanwhile, put the gelatin leaves to soak in cold water . After the cooking time, sift the raspberry mixture to remove the seeds , then pour it back in the saucepan .
Put the saucepan back overthe heat and, as soon as the mixture reaches a boil, add the well-squeezed gelatin . Stir to dissolve it completely .  Pour the mixture into a semi-sphere silicone mold dividing it into 5 portions of about 80 g each .  Place in the freezer and let it cool for at least 3 hours. Set aside about 50 g of sauce which will be used for the final decoration. Leave it at room temperature, perhaps in a kitchen bottle.
In the meantime, let prepare the base: pour the cookies in a mixer and blend to reduce them to powder , then add the butter that you have previously melted and cooled .
Mix everything well . Take 5 pastry rings with a diameter of 8 cm, place them on a tray lined with parchment paper and fill each with about 50 g of the cookie mixture, pressing it with the back of a spoon . Place in the refrigerator and let it harden .
Now you can take care of the cream: pour the cheese into a bowl and start mixing it with the electric whisk while you pour the cream . Add the icing sugar and stir again to mix . Transfer the cream into a pastry bag with a smooth 9 mm spout and place in the refrigerator to harden.
When all the components are ready, proceed with the composition: place the cookie discs on a serving saucer, removing the pastry rings , then gently extract the raspberry caps and place them on the base .
Decorate the surface of the hemispheres with the cream and use the sauce kept aside to fill the cracks . Your Halloween brain cheesecakes are ready to serve !
The Halloween Brain Cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, without garnishing with raspberry sauce.

If you prefer, you can prepare the various components in advance and assemble them before serving.
If you do not have a cooking bottle, you can use a teaspoon to make the decoration with the raspberry sauce!

