name:
Halloween cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 0.66lb(300 g)
Almond flour: 3.5oz(100 g)
Butternut squash.: 1lb(500 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(100 g)- Room temperature
Eggs: 2(110 g)- Medium, room temperature
Brown sugar: 7oz(200 g)
Vegetable oil: 3.5oz(100 g)
Baking powder: 2tbsp(16 g)
Dark chocolate 55%: 3.5oz(100 g)
Strawberry jam: 4oz(120 g)
Cream cheese: 9oz(250 g)
Heavy cream: 7oz(200 g)
Wildflower honey: 1.75oz(50 g)
White chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
Heavy cream: 5oz(150 g)
Food coloring: ½tsp- (Soluble green powder)
Egg whites: 3.5oz(100 g)
Sugar: 7oz(200 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)
Dark chocolate: 0.7oz(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + the preparations resting time

instructions:
What will you prepare on the scariest night of the year? If you are looking for a "scream" decoration, the Halloween cake is the one for you!  Halloween is a holiday that is becoming increasingly popular also in Italy, where delicious cakes are prepared. This dessert consists of a fluffy pumpkin pie split in two to get a milk and a chocolate layer. Inside you will discover a filling with abundant cream cheese and strawberry jam.  Thanks to the decoration that we propose today you will get a Halloween drip cake, scary at the right point and very colorful, suitable even for the little ones. It will be enough to have a little familiarity with pastry bags to make the meringue ghosts to complete the dessert!
Try these recipes too:
To prepare the Halloween cake , first take care of the basic dough. Clean the pumpkin and cut it into cubes, you will need to obtain 500 g. Then transfer the pumpkin into a tall-sided bowl and add the oil and milk .
Blend everything with an immersion mixer until you get a smooth and homogeneous cream . Coarsely chop the dark chocolate and melt it in the microwave or in a bain-marie, let it cool. In another large bowl, pour the eggs and brown sugar .
Mix with the electric whisk , until you get a frothy mixture. Now add the pumpkin cream and whisk for a minute, until it is well blended.  Add flour 00 to the mixture,
almond flour and baking powder . Mix with electric whips at low speed ,
until a smooth and homogeneous mixture is obtained . Divide the dough in two equal parts and add the previously melted dark chocolate to one of them, now lukewarm .
Mix with a hand whisk until a homogeneous mixture is obtained . Line two 8" (20 cm) springforms with parchment paper. Pour the milk dough into one and the chocolate one into the other .
Bake in a static oven at 355°F (180°C) for 45 minutes. Do the toothpick test to make sure they are cooked and take them out of the oven . Let them cool then turn them upside down on a wire rack and let them cool completely.
When the bases have cooled, prepare the meringue. Pour the water and sugar in a saucepan and heat the syrup until it reaches 249°F (121°C) . When the syrup reaches 244°F (118°C), pour the egg whites into the mixer bowl and start whipping them.
When the syrup has reached the temperature of 249°F (121°C) pour it on the egg whites continuing to whip . Work the meringue with a whisk until cold . Keep the meringue at room temperature until it is time to use it. The meringue can remain at room temperature for about 1 hour, obviously it always depends on the inside temperature.  In any case, we recommend storing it in a cool place but not in the refrigerator, with humidity it would tend to disassemble.
At this point prepare the cream that will be used to fill and coat the cake.  Pour the cream cheese, heavy cream and honey into a bowl. Mix with the electric whisk until you get a creamy texture .
Place the chocolate spongo on a serving plate , if necessary you can level it with a knife. Transfer the cream just obtained in a pastry bag with a 1 cm nozzle and make a circle of cream around the entire circumference of the cake .
With a spoon, arrange the jam in the center and level it well . Then cover the jam with another layer of cream cheese .
If needed, level the second sponge, the milk one, and place it on the cream . Press lightly with your hands to make it adhere, then with a spatula level the cream well and spread it on the sides . Then cover the entire cake with the remaining cream cheese, leveling it well with a spatula . At this point, place in the refrigerator for 15-20 minutes.
While the cake is in the fridge, prepare the ganache for the topping.  Chop the white chocolate and transfer it to a bowl. Pour the cream into a saucepan and bring it to a boil. As soon as the cream starts to boil, pour it on the white chocolate .
Then mix gently , without incorporating air until the chocolate has completely melted . Add the soluble coloring powder and mix until a homogeneous color is obtained. Keep aside until the ganache is at room temperature.
As soon as the ganache is at room temperature, take the cake out of the fridge. With the help of a teaspoon, let a little ganache pour on the edge, in order to form the typical drip cake pour.  Continue this way around the entire circumference. At this point, pour the remaining ganache into the center and level with a spatula .
Transfer the meringue to a pastry bag with a 15 mm nozzle and make the ghosts. To do this, just make a single tuft: press to create a base, lift the bag slightly and push down again to form the central part of the ghost, then lift again and make the part of the head, leaving a thin tuft . With the melted chocolate, make the eyes and mouths of the ghosts , finishing the decoration of the Halloween cake !
The Halloween cake can be kept in the refrigerator for a couple of days, well covered.
The base can be kept under a glass cloche for 2 days. It can be frozen.
The cream for the filling can be kept for a couple of days in the fridge.
Add some chocolate chips or raspberries to the cream cheese!

