name:
Pumpkin fritters
ingredients:
Butternut squash: 1.5lbs(700 g)- Cleaned
Leeks: 3.5oz(100 g)- Cleaned
Type 00 flour: 3.5oz(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)- Grated
Pecorino cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)
Eggs: 2- Medium
Baking powder: 1tbsp(4 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Chives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you are a real pumpkin lover you can't miss this delicious savory recipe to be served as an appetizer: pumpkin fritters ! Unlike sweet pancakes, they are made with raw pumpkin which is grated and mixed with eggs, flour, grated cheese and a pinch of baking powder. A quick and easy method to can prepare many other types of pancakes with potatoes or zucchini for example! By dipping the batter in boiling oil, you will obtain irregular bites, very crunchy on the outside and soft on the inside ... no one will be able to resist the fragrance of pumpkin fritters , perfect for your delicious Halloween appetizers!
To prepare the pumpkin fritters , first clean the pumpkin by removing the peel and the seeds and internal filaments. Grate 300 g of pulp with a grater with large holes and dab it with absorbent paper .
Clean the leek and cut it into thin slices . Add the eggs , salt and pepper to the grated pumpkin.
Add Parmigiano Reggiano DOP and the grated Pecorino , the leek and the flour .
Finally, add the baking powder and mix well to mix everything: you will have to obtain a rather soft mixture . Heat the seed oil in a saucepan to a temperature of 347°-355°F (175° -180°C), then pour the mixture into spoonfuls .
Fry for a few minutes, turning the fritters on both sides, until golden brown . Drain on absorbent paper and garnish with chives to taste. Your pumpkin fritters are ready to be served hot !
Like all fried foods, it is recommended to consume the pumpkin fritters as soon as they are ready!
If you prefer, you can replace the leek with onion.

For a streamlined version try adding diced provolone or scamorza cheese to the mixture!

