name:
Quick pumpkin gnocchi
ingredients:
Delica pumpkin: 1lb(500 g)- Cleaned
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 3.5oz(100 g)
Eggs: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2tbsp
Rosemary: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Water: to taste
Butter: 1.5oz(40 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If gnocchi is your passion, then don't miss our quick pumpkin gnocchi recipe, an express and clever version to prepare these delicious treats at home, which have always been reserved for the expert hands of grandmothers. A tasty dough with a soft consistency, in which potatoes are replaced by pumpkin and dipped directly into the pot. The result is a simple but tasty homemade first course, perfect for your winter menus!
Discover more delicious Gnocchi recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare quick pumpkin gnocchi, first divide the pumpkin in half, extract the internal seeds and remove the peel . Divide the pumpkin into wedges first then into thin slices .
Transfer the pumpkin to a bowl, cover it with half a cup of water , season with garlic and rosemary and wrap the bowl with plastic wrap .  Cook in the microwave for about 5-8 minutes at maximum power, until the pulp is soft. Meanwhile, pour the ricotta in a bowl .
Also add the egg , the grated cheese and mix. Take the cooked pumpkin .
Mash it with a potato masher and collect the puree in the bowl with the ricotta and egg .  Incorporate the flour .
Salt and stir to mix . Transfer the mixture in a pastry bag without a nozzle . Take care of the seasoning: in a small pan pour butter and rosemary .
Melt the butter over medium heat until it becomes nutty and set aside . Cook the gnocchi: bring a pot with salted water to a boil, squeeze some pieces of dough and let them fall into the hot water . The boiling must not be excessive otherwise they will fall apart.  Once cooked, drain the gnocchi .
Pour them into the pan with the sauce , toss a few moments to flavor and immediately serve the quick pumpkin gnocchi .
We recommend consuming the quick pumpkin gnocchi immediately.
For the quick pumpkin gnocchi dressing, you can also use a simple tomato sauce, a meat sauce or a gorgonzola cream, if you love cheeses.  As an alternative to the pastrybag, you can use two spoons to take some dough quenelles and dip them in boiling water.

