name:
Pasta with sausage and parmigiano cream
ingredients:
Pipe Rigate pasta: 11oz(320 g)
Sausage: 8oz(250 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3oz(100 g)
Heavy cream: ¾cup(200 g)
Hazelnuts: 5tbsp(50 g)
Thyme: 1sprig
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Red pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
A first course for the autumn, rich in flavor: pasta with sausage and parmigiano cream . Discover this enveloping and creamy recipe, thanks to the Parmigiano cream, which is truly irresistible. The sausage and hazelnut add typically autumnal and wintry notes, which enrich pasta dishes with flavor and substance. We're certain that pasta with sausage and parmigiano cream will become one of your favorites for a dinner with friends, or a special Sunday lunch.

To prepare pasta with sausage and parmigiano cream start by removing the sausage casings , then crumble the meat in a bowl . Heat a drizzle of oil and flavor with a garlic clove .
Add it to the pan and leave to brown with the sprig of thyme , salt and pepper. Stir occasionally and remove the garlic when nice and brown .
In the meantime, place the pasta in boiling salted water and prepare the parmigiano cream right away: heat the liquid milk in a saucepan . Once cooled, add the parmigiano .
Remove from the heat, beat with a whisk into a smooth sauce . A couple of minutes before the pasta cooking time is up, drain the pasta and add to the pan with the sausage .
Add a ladle of cooking water . Cook for another minute or so and then add the parmigiano cream : continue stirring until cooked .?
Arrange onto plates and add the coarsely chopped hazelnuts , a few thyme leaves and a grating of pink pepper. Your pasta with sausage and parmigiano cream is ready to be served piping hot .
Pasta with sausage and parmigiano cream can be stored for 2-3 days.
Add an egg yolk or some saffron for an even more intense, amber-colored parmigiano cream!

