name:
Baked breaded fennel
ingredients:
Fennel: 3lbs(650 g)
Breadcrumbs: to taste- (coarse)
Parsley: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2tbsp- (for grating)
Eggs: 2
Whole milk: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
White and with their unmistakable green tuft, we love fennel served any way, cooked or raw! If you are looking for a truly morish recipe, then try our baked breaded fennels . A side dish that is easy to make and goes well with lots of meat and fish dishes. Follow these steps and the fennel will not lose its natural consistency: they will remain tender but crispy, a pleasure for the palate. The breadcrumb, cheese and parsley breading will make them highly flavorsome and morish. What is left to say? All you need to do now is choose the best fennels, bread and bake them in the oven by following our instructions!!
To prepare baked breaded fennel , remove the upper part (it can be used for squash). Remove the first layer too. Cut into 0.2 inch thick slices , by holding the fennel up on the work top, so that the pieces do not fall away as you slice them .
Now prepare the breading. Finely chop the parsley and place it in an oven tray with the previously added breadcrumbs . Add the grated cheese and stir .
Crack the eggs open and add them to another oven tray, add the milk , salt, pepper and beat with a fork . Dip the first slice of fennel in the egg , be sure to coat it thoroughly.
Now place it in the bowl with the breadcrumbs and turn it over to coat it on both sides . Place the slice on an oven tray covered with parchment paper .
Continue in this way until you finish all the fennel and place each piece on the tray without overlapping them too much . Add a drizzle of oil and bake in a static oven preheated to 428°F for 15-20 minutes. Remove from the oven and serve your fennel .
We recommend enjoying the fennel hot and freshly baked. It can also be stored in the refrigerator and heated up before serving. Baked fennel can be placed on a tray and stored in the refrigerator for up to 6 hours before baking.
Instead of parsley you can use thyme, marjoram or rosemary to taste. Add some Pecorino romano cheese, finely chopped hazelnut or almonds for example! For an egg-free version, prepare a liquid batter with water and flour. Dip the fennel in it, then in the breadcrumbs, and proceed with the recipe as normal.

