name:
Pasta with sausage and taleggio cheese
ingredients:
Rigatoni: 0.75lb(320 g)
Sausage: 0.75lb(300 g)
Taleggio cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Red spring onions: 1
Rosemary: to taste
Cumin seeds: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Looking for an appetizing first course? For an evening dedicated to decisive and rustic flavors, we present you with our pasta with sausage and taleggio cheese! This simple pasta is quick to make, will satisfy your appetite and impress your palate with a sauce characterized by a decisive taste and an irresistibly enveloping consistency. So much goodness in a pasta dish that can be prepared in just a few minutes and will surprise you with its simplicity: your last-minute dinner is served!
To prepare pasta with sausage and taleggio cheese , decase the sausage and crumble by hand . Peel and thinly slice the onion .
Place the sliced onion in a large pan and add a drizzle of oil . Brown the onion for a couple of minutes, then add the sausage . Leave the sausage to brown on a high flame for around 10 minutes. Add the cumin seeds half way through the cooking time and stir .
Remove from the heat once cooked, saut? and add the fresh rosemary . Place the sausage in a bowl . In the meantime, cook the pasta in boiling salted water .
Dice the taleggio cheese . Reuse the saucepan to prepare the sauce. Add a ladle of pasta cooking water and the taleggio cheese .
Cook on a low flame to melt the cheese. Drain the pasta and add it straight to the pan with the taleggio cheese , stir, then add a ladle of cooking water .
Now add the sausage . Saut? the pasta on a high flame for around 2 minutes, remove from the stove and add the fresh rosemary as a final touch . The pasta with sausage and taleggio cheese is ready to be served .
We recommend enjoying pasta with sausage and taleggio cheese freshly made.
Add cooking water gradually, according to the consistency of the sauce. If you do not like the pungent aroma of cumin, you can use fennel seeds.

