name:
Rice salad with aromatic herbs and soft egg
ingredients:
Rice: 2 ¼cups(320 g)- black wholegrain
Zucchini: 2.3cups(300 g)
Whole peeled hazelnuts: ¼cup(30 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Wild fennel: 2sprigs
Marjoram: 2sprigs- fresh
Parsley: 2sprigs
Mint: 2sprigs
Eggs: 4
White wine vinegar: 2spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
Rice salad is a summer classic, but to whet the appetite, you always need a pinch of creativity and originality! So today we thought of bringing to the table rice salad with aromatic herbs and soft egg, a tasty and nutritious recipe to stay light in a genuine way. The whole black rice, seasoned with an aromatic herb oil, is enriched with zucchini and hazelnuts and is crowned with an irresistible poached egg : once broken, the creamy yolk will flow onto the plate, binding the ingredients together. The rice salad with aromatic herbs and soft egg is a simple but impressive vegetarian main course, also ideal for surprising guests!
To make the rice salad with aromatic herbs and soft egg, first bring a pot of salted water to a boil, then add the whole black rice and cook for the time indicated on the package. Meanwhile, prepare the herb oil: pour the oil into a small pot and add the fennel , parsley, and marjoram .
Add the mint as well and heat the oil over very low heat for 10 minutes , then blend with an immersion blender . Transfer the aromatic oil to the refrigerator until ready to use.
In the meantime, roughly chop the hazelnuts and toast them in a pan over medium heat for a couple of minutes , then set aside .
When the rice is cooked, drain and let cool slightly . Move on to the zucchini: trim and slice them lengthwise to a thickness of about 1/8 inch , then place them on a very hot grill .
Grill the zucchini on both sides , then cut them into strips on the short side . Salt and set aside .
Finally, prepare the soft egg: fill a deep pot with water, add the vinegar and bring to a gentle boil. When the water is boiling, lower the heat and create a whirlpool in the center with a spoon or whisk , then gently slide in an egg that you have cracked into a separate bowl .
Let the egg cook for 3 minutes without touching it, then drain with a slotted spoon and transfer it to a tray lined with paper towels . Proceed in this way with the remaining eggs. At this point, you are ready to plate: season the rice with the herb oil and mix well.
Add the zucchini and the toasted hazelnuts , then mix and adjust with salt and pepper .
Divide the seasoned rice among the plates and place a poached egg on each, being very careful not to break it . Garnish with a few sprigs of fennel and serve your rice salad with aromatic herbs and soft egg !
It is recommended to consume the rice salad with aromatic herbs and soft egg as soon as it is ready. If necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator for 2 days, without the egg.
If you prefer, you can replace the hazelnuts with almonds or use other fresh aromatic herbs to your liking!

