name:
Couscous stuffed peppers
ingredients:
Bell peppers: 4- (red and yellow)
Couscous: ¾cup(125 g)
Vegetable broth: ½cup(125 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 7oz(200 g)
Shallot: 1- (small)
Taggiasca olives: 3.5oz(100 g)- (pitted)
Basil: 10leaves
Feta cheese: 3oz(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Pine nuts: 3tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Stuffed peppers are amazing with meat and sausage, but if you are looking for a lighter and vegetarian version, try couscous stuffed peppers ! This vegetarian version of stuffed peppers is truly easy to prepare, while also being very rich and tasty. Inside the peppers you'll find couscous seasoned with tomatoes sautéd with the left over pepper caps, taggiasca olives, feta, pine nuts and lots of fresh basil! A convenient single dish, also as a packed lunch at the office or beach, aromatic and with a truly special flavor!
If you love red peppers you cannot miss these recipes:
To prepare couscous stuffed peppers , start by washing and tipping the peppers . Leave the cap to one side, you'll need it later on. Now remove the seeds inside with a knife , without breaking up the pepper. Do the same for all the other peppers .
Place them on an oven tray with parchment paper, add a little salt inside and a drizzle of oil . Bake in a conventional oven preheated to 355°F (180°C) for around 25 minutes. In the meantime, cut the stalks out from the pepper caps . Cut into pieces .
Place in a bowl and leave to one side. Now peel and slice the shallot . Place it in another bowl and leave to one side.
Thoroughly wash the tomatoes and cut them in half . Now pour 3 spoon of oil in a pan and add the shallot. Lightly bronw, then add the peppers .
add the tomatoes too and flavor with salt . Cook on a medium flame for around 15 minutes, turn over occasionally. Heat the vegetable squash in the meantime, which should be the same weight as the couscous. As soon as it starts to boil, add the couscous .
Stir and cover with a lif . Leave to rest for a few minutes, until all the water is absorbed .
Place in a bowl, crumble with a fork and add the vegetables , the diced feta and the pitted taggiasca olives, drained from the preservation oil .
add the pine nuts too , then the hand-torn basil leaves and stir thoroughly. Once the 25 minutes are up, remove the peppers from the oven .
Fill them with the couscous, be sure to pack it down and place once more on the tray. Add a drizzle of oil and bake in a static oven preheated to 355°F (180°C) for a further 25 minutes. Remove from the oven and serve .
Couscous stuffed peppers can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
If you don't have time to prepare the vegetable squash, you can use water, to which you add a pinch of salt and a drizzle of oil so that the coucous crumbles better.

