name:
Zucchini flower bundles
ingredients:
Zucchini flowers: 16
Zucchini: 3
Potatoes: 3
Garlic: 1clove
Oregano: to taste- fresh
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Eggs: 1
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(50 g)- for grating
Breadcrumbs: 2tbsp(20 g)
Provola cheese: 1oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
It's the zucchini flower season! Delicate and delicious rays of sunlight that never fail to inspire in the kitchen. This time however we will not prepare them in batter, and we present a new, morish recipe: zucchini flower bundles . These delicious bites are filled with vegetables and melted cheese, which you'll discover right from the first bite. Perfect served as a finger food starter: these bites will bring cheer to your table!
To prepare the zucchini flower bundles , remove the stem , pistil and pointy leaves around the flower. Cut into four pieces to obtain 4 separate petals .
Wash, tip and dice the zucchini . Peel and dice the potatoes . Crush the garlic in a large pan and brown it with a drizzle of oil .
Add the zucchini to the pan , then the potatoes and add enough salt for the vegetables to release their water, then add the fresh oregano .
Cover with a lid and cook on a medium flame for around 15 minutes, turn over occasionally. Once the 15 minutes are up, remove the garlic and leave to cool in a large bowl. Coarsely mash the vegetables .
Add the egg, the Parmigiano, the chopped parsley and the breadcrumbs . Add salt to taste and stir.
Dice the cheese . Remove a ball of the mixture , place one or two cheese cubes in the middle .
Mold by hand to form balls that are not too big . Take a flower and place the ball in the middle of it . Wrap in the petals to fully cover it

Place the flowers on a tray lined with parchment paper. Add a drizzle of oil and salt. Bake in a static oven preheated to 392°F for 15/20 minutes. The zucchini flower bundles are ready to be enjoyed .
Zucchini flower bundles can be stored for a couple of days in the refrigerator in a sealed container. Freezing is not recommended.
If the mixture is too soft or watery, add a few spoons of breadcrumbs.

