name:
Tuna, grilled vegetable and stracciatella cheese panini
ingredients:
Gluten-free bread: 4- (mini baguettes)
Red peppers: 10oz(300 g)
Zucchini: 10oz(300 g)
Stracciatella cheese: 1cup(160 g)
Tuna in oil: 4oz(120 g)- filets
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(50 g)
Parsley: 2tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: pieces

instructions:
Tuna, grilled vegetable and stracciatella cheese panini will win you over at first sight, in a flourish of colors and fresh aromas: forget about those usual panini on the go and think big! Gluten-free mini baguettes filled with grilled spring vegetables, tuna in oil, stracciatella cheese and an express parsley sauce that will add an aromatic touch to these tempting panini. All this between two slices of pan-toasted mini baguette, guaranteeing a unique crispy note. Discover just how easy it is to serve this delicacy at the table, for all your family to enjoy!
To prepare tuna, grilled vegetable and stracciatella cheese panini , clean and cut the pepper into strips of around 0.8-1 inches . Heat the grill and cook the peppers on both sides for around 8-10 minutes until soft but not too well done .
Place the pepper in a baking tray and season with oil and salt . Cut the zucchini into strips of around 0.2 inches . Cook the zucchini on the hot gill for around 5 minutes on both sides .
Season the zucchini with oil and salt in a bowl . Cover the baking tray with plastic wrap to keep the vegetables warm. Drain the tuna fillets and leave to one side. Place the parsley and 1.8 oz of oil in a tall glass.
Blend with an immersion mixer into a smooth sauce . Cut the mini baguettes in half .
Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan and add the mini baguettes . When the baguettes are golden, remove from the heat and place them on a cutting board, ready for filling! Spread the stracciatella cheese .
Add the grilled vegetables and the tuna . Finish with the green sauce and serve the tuna, grilled vegetable and stracciatella cheese panini right away.
Tuna, grilled vegetable and stracciatella cheese panini are best enjoyed freshly made.
You can replace the zucchini and peppers with seasonal vegetables, like long radicchio and endive in the winter, or sautéed asparagus, eggplant or tomatoes in warmer seasons!
Cut the bread in half and thoroughly heat it up for an even more fragrant and crispy result.

