name:
Pasta with butternut squash and speck
ingredients:
Casarecce pasta: 11oz(320 g)
Butternut squash: 14oz(400 g)- (already cleaned)
Speck: 6oz(180 g)
Leeks: 3oz(100 g)
Heavy cream: 3tbsp(50 g)
Sage: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Sweet, delicate and creamy, butternut squash makes even the simplest first courses special! After enriching pasta with butternut squash with breadcrumbs, mushrooms and bechamel, today we'll delight you with pasta with butternut squash and speck . Just two ingredients, balanced to perfection in terms of flavor and consistency: the rich and velvety sauce, thanks to the cream, is perfect paired with the savory touch of the crispy diced speck! Also ideal as a last minute dinner idea, pasta with butternut squash and speck will be a hit on your autumn menu.
To prepare pasta with butternut squash and speck , slice the butternut squash, remove the skin and then cut into irregular pieces . Peel and thinly slice the leek . Add a drizzle of oil to the saucepan and sweat the leek .
Add the butternut squash and brown it. Add the water to cover the butternut squash and cook on a medium flame, until the butternut squash becomes soft , which will take around 20 minutes; if it becomes too dry, add more water as needed. In the meantime, bring a saucepan filled with water to the boil and add salt.
Cook the pasta so that it is firm to the bite and dice the speck in the meantime . Add a drizzle of oil in a pan and then the speck .
Flavor with the sage leaves . Brown the speck for a few minutes, until crispy . Once ready, add the cooked butternut squash , be sure to save some for garnishing.
Add some cooking water to the sauce, just enough for it to take on a more fluid consistency . In the meantime, drain the pasta and add it to a pan , followed by the fresh liquid milk , pepper to taste and salt, then stir briefly to amalgamate.
The pasta with butternut squash and speck is ready : garnish the plates with the speck you saved and serve nice and warm .
Pasta with butternut squash and speck is best enjoyed freshly made. Storing cooked pasta is not recommended.
Cooked butternut squash can be stored in the refrigerator for one day, in a sealed container.
You can flavor the speck with rosemary instead of sage!
If you don't like cream, used a creamy cheese, like robiola.

