name:
Gluten-free focaccia with caponata
ingredients:
Gluten-free focaccia: 2
Pecorino cheese: 2oz(80 g)- semi-mature
Lamb's lettuce: 3tbsp(30 g)
Eggplant: 8oz(230 g)- long
Cherry tomatoes: 6oz(170 g)
Yellow onions: 1
Salted capers: 2tbsp(20 g)
Green olives: 2tbsp(20 g)- pitted
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(20 g)
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: pieces

instructions:
As lunchtime approaches we feel peckish and in need of a tasty idea that can satisfy our appetite in a genuine and nourishing way...Today we present gluten-free focaccia with caponata , a simple and delicious vegetarian recipe! A soft gluten-free focaccia is served with a vegetable filling, freely inspired by the typical Sicilian side dish, caponata. The filling is also enriched with a few slices of pecorino cheese and mâche leaves, which add a touch of freshness. A blend of Mediterranean flavors just waiting to be enjoyed bite after bite, perfect for a lunch break!
To make gluten-free focaccia with caponata , start with the ingredients for the quick caponata: peel and julienne the onion , tip and dice the eggplant into 0.8 inch cubes . Lastly, cut the tomatoes in half .
Place the onion in a non-stick pan with a drizzle of oil and brown on a low flame for around 10 minutes. Add the eggplant , brown on a high flame for another 10 minutes, then add the tomatoes .
Flavor with the desalted capers , pine nuts and coarsely chopped olives .
Add salt, pepper and cook for another 10 minutes, then season with a few hand-torn basil leaves : Now place the focaccia on a tray and grill in the oven at 392° for 5 minutes .
In the meantime, cut the pecorino cheese into roughly 0.2 inch thick slices . Now you are ready to assemble the ingredients: slice the focaccia in half and add the pecorino cheese slices .
Add 2 spoons of caponata and complete with the mâche . Close the focaccia and repeat with the second piece. Your gluten-free focaccia with caponata is ready to be enjoyed !
Gluten-free focaccia with caponata is best enjoyed freshly prepared.
The caponata can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days, in a sealed container.
If you prefer you can replace the pecorino with a less mature cheese, such as caciocavallo.

