name:
Spaghettoni with swordfish and breadcrumbs
ingredients:
Spaghettoni: 0.75lb(320 g)
Swordfish: 1lb(400 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1lb(400 g)
Spring onions: 1
Stale bread: 2oz(80 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Swordfish is one of the most best-loved fishes in the kitchen due to its flavor and firm consistency: it features in delicious second and first courses, like spaghettoni with swordfish and breadcrumbs . The cherry tomato sauce is perfect paired with diced swordfish. This pasta dish is simple and quick to make; read on to discover its fragrant and crisp secret! A special touch to a simple but equally delicious, pasta with swordfish.
To prepare the spaghetti start by cleaning and slicing the spring onions and half of the green part . Now remove the seeds from the peperoncino and cut the cherry tomatoes into four pieces .
Place the spring onions in a pan with a little oil , add the peperoncino and leave to brown on a medium flame for around 5 minutes. Now add the cherry tomatoes to the pan .
Cover with a lid and leave to cook for around 20 minutes, stir occasionally . In the meantime, dice the swordfish into dices roughly 0.8 inches in size and place in a hot pan with a drizzle of oil .
Brown on a high flame for around 5 minutes and add the thyme when nearly done ; as soon as the cooking sauce evaporates, leave the swordfish to one side .
Prepare the breading: place the thyme and pieces of bread in the mixer . Blend into coarse crumbs, then toast in a pan with a drizzle of oil .
Add a pinch of salt and leave to brown, stir frequently . Cook the spaghetti in boiling salted water and drain when still very firm to the bite . In the meantime, add salt to taste to the sauce .
Place the pasta in the pan , add a ladle of cooking water and finish cooking the pasta , stirring frequently all the while .
Add the swordfish and sauté briefly , add a drizzle of raw oil before placing on dishes and serving . The spaghettoni are ready to be served.
The spaghetti can be stored for no longer than one day, in the refrigerator.
Add a little tomato puree for an even creamier and flavorsome sauce.
For an aromatic note, add a little vodka to the swordfish, simmer and reduce.

