name:
Pasta alla genovese
ingredients:
Ziti pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Beef: 1lb(600 g)- (blade/eye round/silverside)
Yellow onions: 2lbs( kg)
Celery: 2oz(75 g)
Carrots: 2oz(75 g)
Parsley: 1sprig
Bay leaves: 1leaf
White wine: ⅔cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 4 h 10 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make pasta alla genovese , start by peeling and thinly slicing the onion . Peel and finely chop the carrots . Finely chop the celery too , leave the tuft to one side.
Tie the celery tuft, parsley and laurel leave together with cooking twine for a bouquet garni . Lastly, prepare the meat by removing any excess fat and cutting it into 5 pieces .
Add a generous amount of oil to a large saucepan, followed by the onions , the celery and the carrot . Leave to flavor on a low flame for a few minutes, then add the meat .
Add the bouquet garni and a pinch of salt, stir and leave to flavor for a few minutes. Lower the flame, cover with the lid and cook for around 3 hours . There is no need to add water or squash because the onions will release enough liquid into the cooking sauce so that it does not dry out. However, it is important to check and occasionally stir it. Remove the bouquet garni once the 3 hours are up .
Now add part of the wine and simmer on a high flame . Stir and continue to cook for another hour without the lid, gradually add the remaining wine as the sauce thickens . Once the cooking time is up, cook the ziti in boiling salted water .
Drain the pasta when firm to the bite and place it back in the saucepan . Stir well to amalgamate the sauce , then serve your pasta alla genovese , sprinkled with some pepper and grated Parmigiano if you wish !
Genovese sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days, in a sealed container.
It can be frozen if you prefer.
A few tomatoes or a little tomato paste is added in some versions. Water is added in other versions, for even creamier onions. Some add lard, butter or pork, for an even richer genovese.

