name:
Neapolitan panuozzo
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 8cups(1 kg)- strong
Water: 3cups(700 g)- at room temperature
Extra virgin olive oil: 1.7tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: 4tsp(25 g)
Brewer's yeast: 0.1oz(3 g)
Prosciutto cotto: to taste- roast
Smoked provola cheese: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- (to grate)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Note + rising time (about 8 hours total)

instructions:
If you think that Saturday night in Naples is all about Margherita pizza and fried pizza , you are mistaken! We're referring to another street food: the Neapolitan panuozzo, typical of the city of Gragnano. This town is well known for the production of bronze-drawn pasta and for this particular baked product. Essentially, we could say that the Neapolitan panuozzo is a kind of ciabatta baked in a wood-fired oven and filled with various ingredients. Long lines of people wait to sit down and enjoy this delicacy with friends and family, so why not prepare it with your own hands? In the homemade version of the Neapolitan panuozzo proposed to us by Davide Civitiello, master pizzaiolo, we entice you with a tasty filling based on roasted ham and smoked provola cheese that will become beautifully stringy after the final baking... but you can go wild and try other fillings, like bacon and mozzarella, sausage and broccoli rabe, or even eggplant parmesan!
Don't miss these recipes of Neapolitan street food too:

To prepare the Neapolitan panuozzo, pour the flour and yeast into a large bowl , then mix with your hand. Add part of the water and blend again until it is absorbed .
Gradually add the remaining water while continuing to knead by hand until a homogeneous dough is obtained. At this point, add the salt and work to incorporate it evenly .
Finally, add the oil and continue kneading until it is completely absorbed, then transfer it to the work surface and give it slap & fold turns; in total, this will take about 15-20 minutes . When the dough is smooth, uniform, and compact, form a ball and cover it with the bowl , then let it rest at room temperature for 15 to 40 minutes.
After the resting time, divide the dough with a dough scraper into 6 portions of about 8 oz each . Take one portion at a time and pull the edges from the outside inward .
Roll the dough on the work surface to form balls and place them in a proofing box . Close with the lid and let rise for about 6-8 hours at a temperature of about 64°F-75°F .
About an hour before the end of the rising process, place the pizza stone in the oven and heat it to the maximum power. Once risen, the dough balls will have doubled in volume . Dust the first dough ball with flour and gently stretch it with your fingers to lengthen it, pressing to thin it more along the edges .
You should get a rectangular shape of about 12x4 inches . Place the stretched dough on the pizza stone using a peel and bake for 2-3 minutes at 482°F. When the panuozzo is puffed up, remove it from the oven and cut it in half horizontally .
Fill the panuozzo with roasted ham , sliced smoked provola cheese , and grated Parmesan cheese .
Season with pepper and oil , then close the sandwich .
Bake it again for 2-3 minutes , just enough time to melt the cheese and make the outside crispy. Once removed from the oven , your Neapolitan panuozzo is ready to be cut in half and enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the Neapolitan panuozzo immediately after filling.
The unfilled sandwich can be stored for one day, well sealed in a paper bag.
If preferred, you can freeze the sandwich after the first bake, once it has completely cooled.
If you don't have a pizza stone, you can use a regular baking sheet, making sure to preheat it well in the oven at maximum power.
If the dough is still sticky at the end of the processing stage, you can flour it lightly and gradually.
If you don't have a proofing box, you can use a tray covered with lightly oiled plastic wrap.

