name:
Coconut chocolates
ingredients:
Shredded coconut: 3.5oz(100 g)
Greek yogurt: 5 ⅓cups(150 g)- (coconut flavor)
Wildflower honey: 2tsp
Dark chocolate 70%: 7oz(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
A chocolate box always makes a wonderful gift and homemade ones filled with coconut even more so! This sweet treat is actually a lighter version of classic filled chocolates: the 70% dark chocolate case conceals a white heart made with nothing but shredded coconut, Greek yogurt and honey. A delicacy for chocolate lovers and everyone looking for a sweet treat they needn't feel too guilty about, in fact you can enjoy two or three of these coconut chocolates !
To make coconut chocolates , place the shredded coconut in a bowl, add the Greek yogurt to the coconut and the wildflower honey ; stir thoroughly with a spoon .
Once the mixture is quite firm , mold into balls, each around 0.4 oz, and place them on a tray lined with parchment paper ; you should make around 20 with these amounts. Leave to firm up in the freezer for around 30 minutes .
Once this time is up, melt the chocolate in the microwave or in a bain-marie, then dip one ball at a time in it , use a fork to turn and fully coat each ball . Let any excess chocolate drip away and place the balls on a silicon board or a tray lined with parchment paper . Leave to dry in a fresh and ventilated place.
Once the chocolate solidifies, melt the left over chocolate and place it inside a parchment paper cone, then decorate the balls with zig-zag lines . Leave the decorations to harden, them remove the balls by gently lifting the side of the board or using a spatula . Your coconut chocolates are ready to be enjoyed !
Coconut chocolates can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days, in a sealed container. Don't worry if condensation forms on the surface of the chocolate, this is due to the temperature inside the refrigerator.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer a more intense flavor, you can coat the balls with 85% dark chocolate.
It is best to use Greek yogurt, coconut, plain, or any other flavor. Otherwise you may need to adjust the amounts of other ingredients in the recipe to achieve the right consistency.

