name:
Wholegrain crepes with vegetables and feta
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1cup(300 g)
Whole grain flour: 1cup(150 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Eggs: 2
Fine salt: to taste
Mixed vegetables: 1lb(400 g)- frozen
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Feta cheese: 2oz(80 g)
Water: 5tbsp(75 g)
Butter: to taste
Oregano: to taste- fresh
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: pieces

instructions:
To make wholegrain crepes with mixed vegetables and feta , start by melting the butter for the batter, then leave it to cool. Place the wholegrain flour and the salt in a bowl , then gradually add the milk , stirring with a whisk all the while .
Add the melted and cooled butter , the eggs and stir to amalgamate everything . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and leave to rest in the refrigerator for 10 minutes.
Prepare the filling in the meantime: heat a non-stick pan with a drizzle of oil, add the vegetables and sauté on a high flame for 7 minutes , then add salt and leave to cool. Now dice the feta and heat the water to around 158°.
Place the feta in a tall and narrow container, add the hot water and blend with an immersion mixer into a smooth and homogeneous cream .
Remove the batter from the refrigerator and start cooking the crespelle: heat an 8" diameter non-stick pan and grease with a little butter, then pour in a ladle of batter in the middle of the pan . Cook on a medium-low flame for around 3 minutes , then turn the crepe over and cook for a couple of minutes on the other side too. Once cooked, pile them up on a tray ; if you do not use your crepes right away then cover with plastic wrap or a cloth so that they do not become dry.
You are ready to assemble the crepes: cover a quarter of the surface with the filling , then fold in half and lastly, into a triangle . Proceed to fill the other crepes in exactly the same way.
Garnish the crespelle with the feta sauce , a grating of pepper and a few fresh oregano leaves . Your wholegrain crepes with vegetables ad feta are ready to be served !
Wholegrain crepes with mixed vegetables and feta are best enjoyed freshly made.
Cooked unfilled crepes can be stored in the refrigerator for no longer than 2 days, covered with plastic wrap.
The feta sauce can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days, in a sealed container. If it solidifies, soften it by stirring in a little hot water.
You can use dried instead of fresh oregano, or other aromatic herbs, like marjoram or thyme.
It is best to add salt in moderation as feta is already quite salty.
If you do not like feta, use quartirolo instead.

