name:
Lemon curd tart
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 10oz(300 g)
Butter: 1stick(150 g)
Lemon peel: 1- for grating
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(250 g)- cold
Lemon juice: ⅔cup(150 g)
Lemon peel: 2- for grating
Sugar: ⅔cup(140 g)
Butter: 1stick(125 g)- cold
Eggs: 3
Isinglass: 0.25oz(6 g)
Berries: to taste
Heavy cream: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Lemon curd tart is the perfect summer recipe! A no-bake dessert with an intense citrus flavor that could be mistaken for a cheesecake at first glance, indeed the biscuit base is identical, although for the filling we chose a highly aromatic cream of Anglo-Saxon origin: lemon curd. All it takes is a few minutes at the stove and a few hours in the refrigerator for firming up to make a truly exceptional no-bake tart for a fresh and delicious snack! Also ideal served at the end of a meal, lemon curd tart could even be an excellent dessert at the end of a sophisticated seafood menu.
Discover these desserts with lemon curd too:
To make lemon curd tart , start by preparing the cream: place the sugar and the grated lemon peel in a saucepan (not a steel one) , then stir thoroughly with a whisk . Add the eggs and stir some more to amalgamate.
Now add the lemon juice and heat the saucepan on the stove. Cook on a low flame, stirring all the while, until you reach a temperature of 180°F . When the cream thickens and the spatula is no longer visible, remove from the heat and add the isinglass, previously soaked in water and wrung out .
Stir to fully dissolve the isinglass, then place the cream in a bowl and add the diced cold butter . Blend with an immersion mixer into a smooth and homogeneous consistency . Cover the cream with plastic wrap and leave to firm up in the refrigerator for at least 6 hours .
Prepare the base in the meantime: melt the butter and leave to cool, then place the biscuits in the mixer , together with the grated lemon peel . Blend thoroughly .
Place the blended biscuits in a bowl , add the melted butter and amalgamate with a spatula .
Line an openable 9.5" diameter mold with parchment paper and pour in around half of the biscuit mixture , then press it over the base using a glass . Use the remaining mixture to create the edges and leave to firm up in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes .
Once the cream firming time is up, beat the whipped cream with an electric whisk . Remove the cream from the refrigerator and soften by vigorously beating with a whisk .
Gradually add the whipped cream and delicately stir it in . Remove the cookie base from the refrigerator and pour the cream over it .
Smooth the surface and place back in the refrigerator for around 2 hours. Once firm, delicately remove the mold and garnish the surface with whipped cream , wild berries and a few mint leaves: your lemon curd tart is ready to be served !
Lemon curd tart can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
You can also cut it into slices and freeze it.
A steel saucepan is not recommended for preparing lemon curd tart, because it reacts with the acid in the lemon, thus altering the end result.

