name:
Rice bowl with spinach pesto
ingredients:
Rice: 1cup(320 g)
Snap peas: 7oz(200 g)
Quartirolo Lombardo cheese: 5oz(150 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black sesame seeds: to taste
Spinach: 7oz(200 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Pine nuts: 2tbsp(15 g)
Water: 7tbsp(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Precooked chickpeas: 2cups(400 g)- drained
Green Peperoncino: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: pieces

instructions:
Looking for a healthy single dish? Today we're going to show you how to prepare a rice bowl with spinach pesto ! A healthy but truly flavorsome dish, which will revolutionize your lunch breaks at home and in the office! Bowls, which are similar to poke, are increasingly appreciated and fashionable this time of the year. They contain separate portions of proteins, carbohydrates and vegetables...we are certain that our vegetarian version will rouse your interest. For our bowl we used simple rice, crispy chickpeas, tender snow peas and diced quartirolo cheese, but the homemade spinach pesto is what really adds a unique flavor and creamy touch. A prefect dish for enjoying at room temperature and which is easy to take with you, for a wholesome lunch you can enjoy al fresco!
To prepare the rice bowl with spinach pesto , start with the crispy chickpeas. Rinse and thoroughly drain the precooked chickpeas. Place them in a bowl and season with oil , salt and powdered peperoncino to taste . Stir thoroughly .
Place the chickpeas on a previously greased tray that is big enough so that they form a single layer without overlapping . Bake in a static oven preheated to 392°F (200°C) for around 20 minutes. Now switch to ventilated mode for another 10 minutes. To ensure they cook evenly, remove the tray a couple of times and turn them over. In the meantime, cook the rice in boiling salted water for the time indicated on the packet. Drain and cool under running water .
Place the rice in a bowl, season with the oil , stir thoroughly and leave to one side . The chickpeas are done, remove them from the oven .
Now prepare the spinach. Brown a previously crushed garlic clove in a large pan with a drizzle of oil. Add the spinach and cook for 2-3 minutes, until wilted. Remove the garlic and season with the salt.
Leave to cool, then place in a long and narrow container. Add the pine nuts , the water and a drizzle of oil. Blend with an immersion mixer into a smooth and homogeneous mixture.
Now thoroughly wash the snow peas and cut into lozenges of around 0.8 inches, by using slanted cuts . Blanche in boiling salted water for around 3 minutes, until tender. Drain and cool in water .
Dice the quartirolo cheese . Prepare your bowl: fill a quarter of it with the rice , add the quartirolo cheese cubes next to it .
Now add the chickpeas and to finish, the snow peas . Lastly, add the spinach pesto and black sesame seeds . Serve and enjoy your bowl !
You can store all the preparations or the assembled bowl for one day in the refrigerator.
You could also stir the rice with the spinach pesto, for a different version. For a non-spicy alternative, flavor the chickpeas with sweet paprika. You can replace quartirolo cheese with feta or fresh cacioricotta pugliese. For the pesto you could use almonds or walnuts instead of pine nuts.

