name:
Swordfish cutlet
ingredients:
Swordfish: 4slices- (6 oz each)
Eggs: 2
Panko: 1cup(200 g)
Pistachios: 1cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Cutlet makes everyone happy at the table, whether classic or reinterpreted (like the one alla palermitana) or with fish, just like in this recipe: a swordfish cutlet with a golden and morish breading! What makes this fish-based second course so special is the panko breading, a special kind that is widely used in Japanese cuisine, that consists of crispy flakes. We added it to finely chopped pistachios, for an even more flavorsome and colorful note! You will be surprised when you discover just how easy it is to bring a dish with a gourmet touch to your table in so little time!

To prepare swordfish cutlet , place the pistachios in the mixer and blend into a powder . Stir the blended pistachios with the panko .
In this way you will have prepared the breading . Beat the eggs in a tray and dab the swordfish with some absorbent paper to dry it .
Dip the swordfish in the beaten egg and then in the breading , so that every part is thoroughly coated .
Heat the oil in a pan to 320째-338째F , add the fish cutlet and fry both sides in the oil .
When the surface is nice and golden , place it on some absorbent paper and add salt to taste. Serve the swordfish cutlet nice and hot , accompanied with a fresh seasonal salad.
Enjoy the swordfish cutlet freshly made, to appreciate the characteristic crispiness of fried preparation. Freezing is not recommended.
Panko is a breading made with white sandwich bread. Here is the recipe so that you can prepare it at home: remove the crust from the sandwich bread, cut into strips and then blend. Set the speed to minimum and switch on for a few minutes. You will end up with rather large crumbs. Sprinkle the breadcrumbs on a tray to form a thin layer. It should be uniform and no thicker than 0.4 inches. Bake for 20 or 30 minutes in an oven preheated to 248째.
Check that the crumbs become crispy and stir occasionally. Remove from the oven and leave to cool before use. It is important not to close it inside a container when still hot, as the humidity will cause it to soften.
Instead of olive oil you can use a seed oil for frying.
The cutlet can be baked in a ventilated oven at 320째F for 30/35 minutes, be sure to turn it over half way into the cooking time.

