name:
Rice salad with roasted peppers and mozzarella cream
ingredients:
Rice: 1cup(320 g)- for the salad
Red peppers: 10oz(300 g)- (around 2)
Peas: 1cup(200 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Anchovies in oil: 4
Mint: to taste
Fior di latte mozzarella cheese: 4oz(125 g)
Heavy cream: 3tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: pieces

instructions:
Rice salad with roasted peppers and mozzarella cream is a delicious alternative to classic rice salad, one of the best-loved dishes in the summer. It can be prepared in advance and stored in the refrigerator, ready to enjoy any time, after a wonderful day at the beach for example! To enrich the rice we chose some super flavorsome ingredients: roasted and skinned peppers, peas, anchovies, and a delicious mozzarella cream, which together with the mint leaves, complete this dish with a creamy and fresh touch. This salad is so simple to make, all you need to do is follow our steps and store it in the refrigerator until you are ready to serve it! Fresh, flavorsome and colorful, it will delight your palate and win all your guests over!
To prepare rice salad with roasted peppers and mozzarella cream , start by heating a saucepan filled with salted water, which you'll need for cooking the rice. Now thoroughly wash the peppers, place them on a hot grill and cook until soft and nicely golden; turn them over often. This will take around 20-25 minutes. Place them in a bowl and cover with plastic wrap to make it easier for you to remove the skin later on.
Add the rice to the water as soon as it comes to the boil and cook for around 12 minutes. Drain thoroughly and place it in a large bowl to cool. In the meantime prepare the peas too. Cut into the peppers and place them in a pan with a drizzle of oil .
Leave to brown for a couple of minutes, then add the peas . Add salt and cook on a high flame for 5 minutes . Then add the mint leaves , remove from the heat and leave to one side.
Skin the peppers, they should have cooled down by now . Open them in half, remove the seeds and stalk. Then cut into strips roughly 0.2 inches in size . Place them in a bowl and season with salt, oil and pepper .
Add the roasted peppers and their condiment to the rice , as well as the peas, after removing the peperoncino . Stir everything thoroughly together and leave to one side to flavor.
Now prepare the mozzarella cream. Cut the fiordilatte cheese into pieces and place it in a tall and narrow container . Then add the cream and blend.
You should obtain a smooth and thick cream . Place the lukewarm rice on dishes with the peppers and peas, add the copped anchovies and decorate with the mozzarella cream and fresh mint leaves .
You can store the rice salad in the refrigerator for 2 days, without the mozzarella cream.
For a sweeter flavor you can use yellow peppers. You can replace the peas with fresh fava beans. Prepare the rice salad a few hours in advance and store in the refrigerator, it will be even more flavorsome!

