name:
Lemon squid
ingredients:
Squid: 2lbs(1 kg)- (around 4 medium ones, to be cleaned)
Lemons: 1
White wine: 1tbsp(20 ml)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 ml)
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Lemon squid is a fish-based second course that is simple and quick to prepare. A light and delicate seafood dish. It is easy to make: you'll need to pay particular attention when cleaning the squid, a fundamental step in making sure this recipe is a success. It is also important not to underestimate cooking. The lemon squid we present you with today is prepared on a grill that must be very hot, so that the squid can be cooked very fast. In this way the squid meat will remain tender and succulent. To season it, prepare a lemon, white wine and oil dip: it will be delicious and very aromatic, also thanks to the addition of parsley and lemon peel! Let's take a look at all the steps needed to prepare this dish, which is perfect for the summer!
You may also like:
To prepare lemon squid, start with the cleaning. Separate the tentacles from the body and thoroughly empty the insides, remove the bone too. Now delicately remove the skin too . Now for the tentacles: remove the beak in the middle and the eyes .
Rinse thoroughly under running water and dab with some kitchen paper . Now that you have cleaned all the squid you can start cooking. Grease and thoroughly heat a tray. Place the squid on it , without overlapping. Cook in two batches if necessary.
Grill the squid thoroughly for 2-3 minutes per side, turn them over when nice and golden . The squid will be ready when the white turns opaque and the grill lines are distinctly golden . In the meantime, grate the lemon peel .
Squeeze out the juice too , you'll need around a quarter of a cup. Finely chop the parsley . Now place the oil and the white wine in a bowl .
Add the parsley, lemon peel, salt, pepper and juice . Emulsify with a whisk , sprinkle over the hot squid and serve immediately.
Grilled squid is best enjoyed freshly made.
Use a cast iron grill, or an electric plate for cooking. Instead of parsley you can also use chives, fresh oregano or aromatic herbs.

