name:
Raw vegetables, shrimps and taleggio cheese
ingredients:
Taleggio cheese: 7oz(200 g)- P.D.O.
Watermelon: 17oz(500 g)- (already cleaned)
Shrimps: 14oz(400 g)- red (to be cleaned)
Zucchini: 7oz(200 g)- (already cleaned)
Cucumbers: 7oz(200 g)
Red spring onions: 1oz(50 g)- (already cleaned)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 2 min
Makes: pieces

instructions:
Raw vegetables, shrimps and taleggio cheese is a summer dish that combines ingredients and flavors that are apparently very different between the freshness of the zucchini and cucumber is combined with the sweetness of the watermelon, which is balanced by the pungent note of the spring onion. An original fruit and vegetable carpaccio that is completed by delicately savor red shrimps and the decisive flavor of taleggio P.D.O., the famous cheese from Lombardy. Easy and quick to prepare, raw vegetables, shrimps and taleggio cheese is ideal served as a starter or single dish: a delicious idea for those hotter days!
Enjoy these additional recipes too:
To make raw vegetables, shrimps and taleggio cheese , start by cutting the watermelon into slices ; remove the rind and cut into triangles that are roughly 1.2 inches at the base . Leave the watermelon to one side and clean the shrimps: remove the head, the tail, the shell and the black string on the back .
Thoroughly heat a non-stick pan with a drizzle of oil, add the shrimps and brown them for a few seconds on both sides . Remove the shrimps from the pan and leave them to one side .
Now prepare the vegetables: wash and thinly slice the zucchini with a mandoline slicer , then thinly slice the cucumber without removing the skin .
Peel and thinly slice the onion too . Lastly, cut the Taleggio P.D.O. cheese into slices and then into cubes roughly 0.4 inches in size .
You are ready to assemble the dish: add the watermelon triangles , the cucumbers and the zucchini .
Now add the onion rings , the blanched shrimps and the Taleggio P.D.O. cubes. .
Lastly, season with a drizzle of oil , a pinch of salt and pepper . Your raw vegetables, shrimps and Taleggio cheese is ready to be served !
Raw vegetables, shrimps and Taleggio cheese can be stored in the refrigerator for one day at most, in a sealed container.
You can enrich the raw vegetables, shrimps and Taleggio cheese with other ingredients of your choice, or flavor them with fresh herbs, like basil or marjoram!

