name:
Summer seafood pasta
ingredients:
Ditalini: 0.75lb(320 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 0.66lb(300 g)
Garlic: 4cloves
Mussels: 1lb(500 g)- cleaned
Clams: 1lb(500 g)- cleaned
Shrimps: 12- red
White wine: glass
Parsley: 1bunch
Lemon peel: ½
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: High

instructions:
Fancy a fish-based first course? No doubt seafood spaghetti comes straight to mind, but we also have another recipe in store for you, which is just as flavorsome and wonderful for the summer: summer seafood pasta ! Characterizing elements? Refined red shrimps prepared raw and their special concentrate, together with the delicate yellow cherry tomato, used for cooking the pasta. All this followed by a cascade of seafood, mussels and clams, which enrich this first course with an intense aroma and flavor, unforgettable just like anything that is prepared with love and using the best products.
To prepare summer seafood pasta , heat a drizzle of oil in a saucepan with two garlic cloves , add the cleaned mussels and clams and a few sprigs of parsley .
Add the wine and simmer , cover with the lid and wait for the shells to open on a high flame .
Shell the seafood , filter the cooking water and pour some of the liquid over the shelled mussels and clams .


Cover and leave to one side . Cut the cherry tomatoes into four pieces . Heat another two garlic cloves with a drizzle of oil and then add the cherry tomatoes . Brown on a high flame for 5 minutes.



Add the seafood water , lower the flame, put the lid on and cook for 10 minutes .
When done, remove the garlic cloves , place the sauce in a bowl and blend with an immersion mixer . Add salt and pepper to taste.
Now clean the blast chilled red shrimps , remove the head and shell, then place them in a bowl to marinade in lemon peel , salt and pepper. Leave to one side in the refrigerator .
Remove the shrimp eyes from the heads and place in a mixer , add a drizzle of oil and blend .
Sieve the blended scraps with a colander and leave to one side . In the meantime, sieve the tomato sauce too and place it in a saucepan , then dilute by adding a little hot water .
Cook the ditalini in the sauce for as long as it says on the packet. In the meantime, finely chop the parsley leaves and when the pasta is done, add it to the saucepan .
Add the seafood, a drizzle of oil and place on dishes accompanied by the marinated shrimps and blended concentrate of scraps . The summer seafood pasta is ready .
We recommend enjoying summer seafood pasta freshly made.
Red shrimp is a refined variety, if you cannot find any then replace with common shrimps.
Before consuming raw, marinated or semi-cooked fish, it is recommended that you freeze it for at least 96 hours at -0.4°F in a home freezer with 3 or more stars, in accordance with the Italian Ministry of Health guidelines.
Please check the guidelines provided by your Ministry of Health for further instructions.

