name:
Baked gnocchi parmigiana
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 2lbs(1 kg)
Type 00 flour: 2 ⅔cups(300 g)
Eggs: 1- (medium)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste- (for dusting the working surface)
Tomato purée: 2 ¾cups(700 g)
Basil: 6leaves
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Eggplant: 1.5lbs(650 g)
Rice flour: ½cup(60 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste- (for frying)
Provola cheese: 2 ⅔cups(300 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: ¾cup(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
What if potato gnocchi meet eggplant parmigiana? The union of two such appetizing recipes can only lead to an exceptional first course: baked gnocchi parmigiana ! An even more succulent variant of the gnocchi alla sorrentina enriched with cubes of fried eggplant and stringy provolone cheese... impossible to resist the temptation to sink the fork into the still steaming pan! If you think that making gnocchi with your hands is too demanding, you can also use pasta, such as lumaconi for example, but by following our instructions you can carry out the various preparations at the same time. So here's a new idea for your gnocchi night or Sunday menu: mouth watering is guaranteed with baked gnocchi parmigiana !
Discover more delicious Gnocchi recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the baked gnocchi parmigiana , start with the gnocchi: boil the potatoes starting from cold water for about 30-40 minutes starting from the boil ; when you can easily pierce them with a fork you can drain them. Switch to the sauce, frying the garlic in the oil in a saucepan for a few minutes. Pour the tomato puree , salt and add the basil leaves .
Cover with a lid and cook over low heat for at least 60 minutes ; after this time, remove the garlic from the pan. While the sauce and the potatoes are cooking, take care of the aubergines: wash them and cut them into cubes of about .8-1" (2-3 cm) , then flour them with the rice flour .
Bring the seed oil to a temperature of 340°F (170°C). Sift the eggplant to remove excess flour and fry them a little at a time . When they are golden brown, drain the eggplant and transfer them to absorbent kitchen paper . Keep aside.
Arrange the flour on a pastry board and mash the still hot potatoes on top ; the peel will remain inside the potato masher. Add the lightly beaten egg with a pinch of salt , then mix everything with your hands . Do not knead the dough too much, otherwise your gnocchi will be hard.
When you have obtained a soft and homogeneous dough take one portion at a time and roll it out with your fingertips to obtain .8" (2 cm) thick loaves ; in the meantime, cover the remaining dough with a cloth to prevent it from drying out. Cut the loaves into chunks .
Drag the chunks onto the tines of a fork to obtain the classic grooves ; help yourself by sprinkling the top with semolina to prevent them from sticking. As they are ready, arrange the gnocchi on a lightly floured cloth with semolina, spacing them apart . At this point, put a saucepan with plenty of water on the stove and in the meantime cut the provolone into cubes .
When the water boils, add salt and add a few gnocchi at a time . As soon as they come to the surface, you can drain the gnocchi and transfer them directly to the tomato sauce . Mix well to mix the gnocchi with the sauce .
Also add the fried eggplant and mix again . Take a 10"x10" (24x24 cm) baking dish and pour half of the gnocchi so seasoned inside, then add half of the diced provolone and sprinkle with half of the grated Grana cheese .
Repeat the layers adding the remaining half of the gnocchi , the provolone and the grated cheese . Turn on the grill of the oven at 465°F (240°C) and bake for 4-5 minutes, then add a few basil leaves . Your baked gnocchi parmigiana are ready to be served!
Baked gnocchi parmigiana can be stored for a day in the refrigerator and reheated in the oven before serving.
You can prepare the potato gnocchi and keep them on the tea towel for a couple of hours at the most; in this case the cooking will be slightly longer because they will have dried in the air. Alternatively, you can freeze them and then cook them by dipping them in salted boiling water without defrosting them.
You can replace the provolone cheese with another stretched curd cheese such as mozzarella. In this case it may be necessary to drain it before adding it to the preparation.
To get the ideal texture of the gnocchi it is important to use red or aged potatoes and process them while they are still hot!

