name:
Zucchini alla sorrentina
ingredients:
Zucchini: 1lb(400 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 0.5lb(200 g)
Basil: 10leaves
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fior di latte mozzarella cheese: ½cup(125 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1 ½tbsp(10 g)- grated

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
Zucchini: in spring and summer we like them in all sauces! Today they meet a great classic of Campania cuisine, the gnocchi alla sorrentina, this is how the zucchini alla sorrentina are born! A delightful side dish, with all the flavors of the Mediterranean, streamlined and appetizing, ideal for your summer menus. It is not the first time that we have proposed this reinterpretation of Sorrento: we have proposed Sorrento pasta, chicken strips and even fish fillets, all wrapped and flavored by this tricolor mix: tomatoes, mozzarella and basil! Few and simple ingredients that make the difference for their unique and timeless taste!
To prepare zucchini alla sorrentina , cut the mozzarella into 1 cm cubes and let it drain just long enough to prepare the rest of the ingredients. Peel and cut and slice the courgettes . Pour a drizzle of oil and two cloves of garlic into the pan (reduce to taste) , allow to flavor.
Pour the zucchini into the pan and cook for about 8-10 minutes. Halfway through cooking, remove the garlic cloves . Once ready, remove them from the pan and set aside .
Wash and cut the cherry tomatoes in half . In the same pan in which you cooked the zucchini pour the cherry tomatoes . Season with half the basil , salt and pepper.
Cook for about 5 minutes over low heat . Now take the pan (the one shown is for 2 people, you can use two), oil the bottom and spread a layer of zucchini, salt and pepper.
Pour in the cherry tomatoes, more chopped basil and a part of the diced mozzarella . Continue with the layers until all the ingredients are used up .
Finally spread the cheese on the surface and bake in a preheated oven at maximum temperature for 8-10 minutes in grill mode . Serve the zucchini alla sorrentina hot or even lukewarm.
Zucchini alla sorrentina can be kept in the fridge for 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
For this recipe you can also use light zucchini, with a more delicate flavor and less watery pulp.
Alternatively, you can also use darker or round zucchini.
You can cut the zucchini into slices or into cubes if you prefer!
For a prettier presentation, you can opt for single-portion cocotte instead of a single pan.
Replace the Grana Padano PDO with Pecorino for a stronger flavor.

