name:
Pasta with sausage and gorgonzola
ingredients:
Casarecce pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Sausage: 0.66lb(300 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 7oz(200 g)- sweet
White onions: 1oz(50 g)
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
When experimenting with new pasta recipes, we discovered that gorgonzola goes with everything: radicchio, saffron and pumpkin; in this pasta with sausage and gorgonzola , we present you with a new and delicious ally! The rich savory flavor of sausage all the creaminess of sweet zola cheese will envelop the casarecce pasta in flavor. You'll have a tough time finding a tastier pairing; this preparation is also easy and quick to make, a truly foolproof way to serve something delicious!
To prepare pasta with sausage and gorgonzola , cut into the sausage with a knife and decase it . Chop the sausage into small pieces . Peel and finely chop the onion .
Add a drizzle of oil to a large pan , followed by the finely chopped onion , and brown on a medium flame for around 3 minutes .
Add the finely chopped sausage to the pan with the onion , along with the fresh thyme sprig . Cook on a high flame for around 10 minutes, until the sausage is brown, then add salt . Place a saucepan filled with water on the stove and add salt when it starts to boil.
Once cooked, remove the sprig of thyme , place the browned sausage in a bowl and leave to one side. Cook the pasta so that it is very firm to the bite . Place the gorgonzola and a ladle of pasta cooking water in the same pan you cooked the sausage in .
?
Stir until creamy in consistency . Drain the pasta (when very firm to the bite) and add it straight to the pan with the gorgonzola , then add a ladle of cooking water .
Continue to cook in the pan, stirring all the while. In the meantime, add the browned sausage and leave a small amount to one side to decorate the dish. Once cooked , arrange onto plates and garnish with the sausage left to one side .
We recommend enjoying pasta with sausage and gorgonzola freshly made. Once ready, serve the pasta right away because the cheese tends to harden if left to cool.
Add a spicy note with some fresh peperoncino, or use a mix of aromatic herbs for a more decisive flavor! Sweet gorgonzola is used in this recipe, which in addition to a delicate taste, is also characterized by a soft consistency that guarantees the right amount of creaminess.

