name:
Spaghetti with Monte Veronese sauce and sea bass tartare
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.25oz(320 g)
Monte Veronese cheese: 7oz(200 g)- medium aged
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(100 g)
Sea bass (sea bass): 4.25oz(120 g)- fillets (skinless)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Green Peperoncino: to taste
Garlic: 4cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the spaghetti with Monte Veronese sauce and sea bass tartare, first chop the fish filets with a knife, after removing any bones . Transfer the sea bass to a bowl and season with oil and pepper . Mix and cover with plastic wrap, then leave in the refrigerator until ready to use.
Proceed to the garlic cream: peel the garlic cloves and blanch them for a few seconds , then place them in a bowl with ice water . Repeat this operation 3 times, then remove the internal sprout .
Transfer the cloves to a beaker, add the oil and blend with an immersion blender until you obtain a homogeneous consistency .
Pour the garlic cream into a large pan and set aside . Bring a pot of salted water to a boil for the pasta and in the meantime, grate the Monte Veronese . Cook the spaghetti al dente .
While the pasta is cooking, prepare the Monte Veronese sauce: pour the grated cheese into a non-stick pan , add the cream and mix over low heat to melt it completely. Once ready, set the Monte Veronese sauce aside .
At this point, take the sea bass tartare, add the chili pepper , and mix gently. Drain the spaghetti into the pan with the garlic cream that you have heated over low heat and toss them for a minute to combine them with the sauce, adding a little cooking water if necessary. You are ready to plate: spread the warm Monte Veronese sauce on the base of the plate and place the nest of spaghetti on top.
With the help of 2 spoons, form quenelles and place the tartare on top of the plate . Your spaghetti with Monte Veronese sauce and sea bass tartare is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the spaghetti with Monte Veronese sauce and sea bass tartare immediately, otherwise, the cheese sauce will tend to thicken.
Monte Veronese is a typical cheese from the northern area of the province of Verona. For this recipe, a medium aging, between 12 and 18 months, is preferable. If you can’t find it, you can use Montasio or aged Asiago.
The sea bass can be replaced with sea bream or amberjack, always to be consumed raw.
Before consuming raw, marinated, or not perfectly cooked fish, it is recommended to freeze for at least 96 hours at -0°F (-18°C) in a domestic freezer marked with 3 or more stars, as per Ministry of Health guidelines .
Vini da Gigio is a family-run trattoria managed by the Lazzari brothers, located in the heart of Venice. Laura and Paolo guide their customers through a wide selection of wines and typical Venetian cuisine dishes: not only great classics of tradition but also refined reinterpretations, always with special attention to raw materials and presentation. An authentic and high-level experience to enjoy inside a historic former bacaro, of which the restaurant still retains the name.

