name:
No-bake tart
ingredients:
Butter: 1stick(130 g)
Digestive biscuits: 0.66lb(270 g)
Heavy cream: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Sugar: ⅓cup(75 g)
Isinglass: 0.25oz(8 g)
Fresh fruit: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + the firming time in the refrigerator (about 3.5 hours)

instructions:
The summer dessert par excellence? The fruit tart: shortcrust pastry, custard and fresh fruit! But if you prefer not to turn on the oven and not stay too long in the stove, here is the solution you were looking for: a no-bake tart ! A greedy and fresh dessert, with a cheesecake-like base covered with a panna cotta-like filling and a cascade of fresh seasonal fruit that will make your tart so inviting to devour it with your eyes! The no-bake tart , perfect as a summer cake at the end of a meal or for a fresh snack, will be an irresistible attraction with its riot of colors and flavors, discover with us how to make it and your summer days will take a decidedly more delicious turn!
To prepare the no-bake tart , start from the base: melt the butter in a saucepan over low heat (1-2), then let it cool. Meanwhile, pour the cookies in a mixer
and operate the blades until a crumbly compound is obtained ; pour the cookies in a bowl and then add the melted butter made to cool , stir until it is completely absorbed .
Then take a tart mold of 9.5" (23.5 cm) in diameter and with the removable disc (alternatively the hinged mold will work equally well) and start pouring the cookies base : line the pan well on the edges before and on the bottom then . Then place in the fridge to harden for at least 30 minutes. Meanwhile, pour the gelatine leaves into a bowl with cold water and let them soak for at least 10 minutes.
In the meantime, pour the cream into a pan and heat over very low heat, until it just comes to a boil; pour the seeds of a vanilla bean scraped with the blade of a knife and the open pod . Add the sugar
and mix with a whisk . Once hot, turn off the heat, squeeze the gelatin sheets and pour them into the hot cream ,
stirring with a whisk to dissolve them completely . Then pour the mixture into a bowl, also dropping the vanilla bean that will remain in the infusion , cover with plastic wrap
and with the blade of a knife cut the film to create a vent in order to let the heat escape ; leave the mixture to cool to room temperature. Take the now firm base out of the fridge and remove the vanilla pod from the cold panna cotta . Mix everything
and transfer it to a jug to pour it more easily on the base , you will have to get almost to the brim of the tart. You can alternatively pour it slowly with a ladle. Place the tart in the refrigerator to harden for 3 hours, being very careful when moving it so that the liquid does not come out. Now prepare the fresh fruit: we washed and cut fresh strawberries, apricots, kiwis and a banana into chunks . Once firm, resume the tart
and garnish it with the pieces of fresh fruit until it is completely covered . The no-bake tart is ready to be served .
The no-bake tart if garnished with fresh fruit can be kept for 1 day in the refrigerator, covered with cling film or under a glass bell.
Otherwise, without fresh fruit garnish, it can be stored for 2-3 days in the refrigerator.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can garnish the tart without cooking with other fruit to taste, with dark chocolate flakes or with a topping. Instead of vanilla to flavor the panna cotta you can use cinnamon, lemon, or orange and instead of gelatin you can use about 1 oz (2.5 g) of agar agar.


