name:
Tofu nuggets
ingredients:
Tofu: 0.5lb(200 g)
Corn flakes: 2oz(60 g)- without sugar
Potato starch: ⅓cup(50 g)
Soy milk: ½cup(100 g)- without sugar
Lime juice: ⅔cup(160 g)- (about 2 limes)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp
Ground black pepper: 5
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the marinating time (30 min. in the refrigerator)

instructions:
Looking for vegan recipes? Here is one for you that will delight vegetarian and non-vegetarian palates: tofu nuggets , delicious morsels with a golden and crunchy crust that hide a soft and spicy heart. For this tantalizing variation of nuggets we used tofu, a soy cheese from Asian cuisine characterized by a neutral taste that makes it very versatile. In fact, you can find it in many recipes and enjoy it marinated in beer, fried in batter or in the form of skewers ... now you just have to try this crunchy version too!

To prepare tofu nuggets , pat the natural tofu with absorbent paper in order to dry it well from its maintenance liquid , then cut it into cubes of about 3 cm and transfer them to a bowl. Cut 2 limes in half and squeeze them .
Pour the juice into the bowl with the tofu , add the peppercorns , a pinch of salt and some ground pepper.
Also add a tablespoon of oil and mix well. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator for 30 minutes to marinate. Meanwhile, pour the cornflakes into a blender .
Blend coarsely and transfer them to a plate. Take the tofu out of the refrigerator and pass each cube first in the potato starch and then in the soy milk, taking care to immerse each side well .
Finally cover the cubes with cornflakes and place them gradually on a plate . Pour a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil into a non-stick pan and heat it over high heat.
When it is hot, place the nuggets and cook for 10 minutes always over high heat, turning them often to obtain an even browning and not to risk burning them. Serve the freshly prepared tofu nuggets !
You can keep the tofu nuggets in the refrigerator for 2-3 days and then reheat them in the oven for a few minutes.
We do not recommend freezing the tofu because the flavor will be altered as well as the color.
The dipping in the starch and then in the milk is essential to make the corn flakes breading adhere well.
You can serve the nuggets with a vegan mayonnaise or with natural soy yogurt seasoned with oil, pepper and salt.

