name:
Skillet potato pie
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1(180 g)
Pecorino cheese: ⅓cup(40 g)- grated
Zucchini flowers: 6
Fontina cheese: 1cup(100 g)
Cooked ham: 4oz(110 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
If like us you can't resist the stringy effect of melted cheese, you can't miss this quick and appetizing recipe: the potato pie in a pan. A real whirlwind of taste, an explosion of colors and flavors that will be released in the mouth with the first bite. A nice and captivating idea to be enjoyed immediately hot, while the cake cooks an irresistible scent in the pan, tastefully intoxicating the kitchen, as an inviting reminder for the whole family. Once brought to the table, this amazing skillet potato pie will be snapped up and everyone will compete for the last slice. So double the doses because, we are sure, they will need a second slice!
To make the pie , first wash and dry the potatoes with their peel, then slice them thinly with a mandolin and store them in a bowl full of water to prevent them from blackening. Take the courgette flowers and cut off the stem , detach the leaves from the base of the flower. To remove any earth residues inside the flower, gently wipe with a small brush. Open the flower and remove the pistil .
Cut the fontina cheese into cubes and set aside. Now drain the potato slices and dry them with a cloth , heat a non-stick pan and arrange a first layer of potatoes on the spiral bottom, lay the potatoes overlapping them
once you have made a circle place a potato in the center so that there are no empty spaces between the slices. Sprinkle the whole surface with part of the pecorino .
Cover with the lid and heat for about 2-3 minutes. Distribute another layer of potatoes in a spiral as you did previously, continue with a layer of pecorino
so as to cover the entire surface . Now stuffed with half of the sliced cooked ham , half of the zucchini flowers
also distribute half a dose of fontina cubes . Continue with the remaining dose of cooked ham and the remaining zucchini flowers
top it with the remaining cubes of fontina and more pecorino . Cover with a lid and let everything cook for about 10 minutes. Serve the potato pie in the pan immediately , so as to enjoy it still racy!
Enjoy your skillet potato pie . We do not recommend storing it after cooking because you will lose the stringy effect.
The choice of cheeses for this preparation is very subjective, if you do not like the strong taste of pecorino you can opt for the more delicate Parmigiano Reggiano. As an alternative to fontina you can use scamorza or caciocavallo.

