name:
Pasta with sautéed zucchini and salamella sausage
ingredients:
Fusilli pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Zucchini: 1lb(500 g)
Salamella sausage: 0.75lb(350 g)
Marjoram: 2sprigs
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1cup(120 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parsley: 

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Zucchini and sausage: a delicious pairing in the kitchen! But have you ever tried it as a first course?! Today we present you pasta with sautéed zucchini and salamella sausage : delicious, easy and quick to make! Zucchini sautéed with garlic and parsley are prepared in the classic way, but they are then stirred in with pan fried sausage. Fusilli are the perfect pasta shape for this recipe: thanks to their spiral shape they embrace the cream that will form thanks to the addition of pecorino romano cheese and cooking water. Pasta with sautéed zucchini and salamella sausage is a simple first course, ready in just 30 minutes that will make everyone happy!
To prepare pasta with sautéed zucchini and salamella sausage , start by washing the zucchini. Now tip and cut them in half lengthwise . Cut into rather thin slices, so that you end up with crescents . Now take the sausages and cut into the casing lengthwise .
Decase the sausage by gently pulling on the casing . Cut the sausages in half lengthwise and then into large pieces . Finely chop the parsley leaves to flavor the sautéed zucchini.
Add a drizzle of oil to a large saucepan, then the marjoram sprigs and garlic clove and heat them up. Now add the zucchini to the hot pan and pepper to taste . Use cooking tongs to remove the marjoram sprigs and garlic clove .
Stir occasionally and cook for around 10 minutes. Lastly, add the parsley . Add a drizzle of oil to a larger pan (you'll need it to sautée the pasta), then the sausages . Brown for 5 minutes, stirring thoroughly all the while . In the meantime, cook the pasta in boiling, lightly salted water.
Add the sautéed zucchini and a couple of ladles of pasta cooking water . Drain the pasta when firm to the bite and add to the saucepan . Once cooked, add cooking water as needed.
Now remove from the heat, add the grated pecorino cheese , a drizzle of oil and stir thoroughly until creamy. Arrange onto plates and serve your pasta with sautéed zucchini and salamella sausage when nice and hot .
Pasta with sautéed zucchini and salamella sausage can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days at most.
Turn this recipe into a baked pasta preparation by adding bechamel and provola cheese!

