name:
Oven-baked stuffed crepes
ingredients:
Eggs: 1(55 g)- (1 medium)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(80 g)
Whole milk: cup(170 g)
Butter: ½stick(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Pumpkin: 1lb(600 g)- to be cleaned
Guanciale: 7oz(200 g)
Provolone cheese: 6oz(170 g)
Rosemary: to taste
Provolone cheese: 2oz(80 g)
Heavy cream: ⅔cup(160 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(40 g)- for grating

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes resting time

instructions:
To prepare oven-baked stuffed crepes , start by preparing the crespelle batter. Melt the butter on a very low flame in a saucepan and then leave to cool; in the meantime, crack the egg open, place it in a bowl and temper with the milk . Sieve the flour in a colander directly in the container with the egg and milk and delicately amalgamate with a whisk to prevent any lumps from forming.
Now add the cooled melted butter , stir and cover with plastic wrap . Leave the batter to rest in the refrigerator for half and hour.
Heat and lightly grease a pancake pan, around 9.5 inches in diameter, or a non-stick pan with a thick bottom: grease with very little butter and wipe the entire surface with a piece of kitchen paper (you'll need to repeat this at least one other time, after cooking the first two crepes). Add a ladle of batter at a time and spread it over the entire surface using the special utensil, or simply rotate the pan so that the batter coats the entire bottom to form a disc. As soon as the edges start rising, you can use a spatula to remove it and delicately flip the crepe over onto the other side, so that it cooks evenly. It will take around 1 minute and a half on one side and 30 seconds on the other, so a couple of minutes in total. Continue to cook all the crepes in this way and place them all on a plate ; cover with plastic wrap as soon as they cool down so that they don't dry out. You should end up with 6 crepes, roughly 9.5 inches each.
Now prepare the filling: clean the pumpkin: you'll need around 14 oz of pulp; dice it and do the same with the guanciale . Saute the cuanciale in a pan .
When golden , remove from the pan and add the pumpkin . Cook for around 15 minutes.
Flavor with salt and finely chopped rosemary . Now add the guanciale and leave to one side . Grate the provolone cheese with a large-holed grater . Leave the cheese to one side for the cream.
Now fill the crepes with the stuffing and grated provolone cheese . Close to form a roll ; Leave a spoon of stuffing to garnish the tray.
Cut the crepes into three equal parts and leave to one side. Heat the cream and just before it boils, add 2.8 oz of provolone cheese and stir to melt it.
Add 2-3 spoons of cream to a baking tray and place the crepes on the baking tray . Pour the remaining cream over them .
Finish with the grated Parmigiano and remaining stuffing . Bake in a static oven preheated to 390 °F (200°C) for 15 minutes. After 15 minutes switch to grill mode and continue baking for around 4-5 minutes at 450 °F (230°C). Serve the oven-baked stuffed crepes nice and hot !
Oven-baked stuffed crepes are best enjoyed freshly made. If you prefer, you can store them in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for 1-2 days at most.
Have fun trying out different morish stuffings inspired by seasonal vegetables!

