name:
Fruit tart
ingredients:
Egg yolks: 2
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(250 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Powdered sugar: 1cup(100 g)
Butter: ⅔cup(150 g)- cold
Lemon peel: ½
Sugar: ⅔cup(120 g)
Egg yolks: 4
Whole milk: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Cornstarch: ⅓cup(40 g)
Type 00 flour: 3tbsp(20 g)
Strawberries: 5lbs(250 g)
Kiwi: 2
Pineapple: 4slices
Blueberries: 0.75oz(20 g)
Raspberries: 0.75oz(20 g)
Blackberries: 0.75oz(20 g)
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: High
Note + the custard cooling time and the shortcrust pastry resting time

instructions:
Of all the existing desserts, surely the fruit tart is the classic and timeless dessert by right. A fragrant casket of shortcrust pastry that collects a layer of custard and lots of fresh fruit. After all, the always colorful, fresh and fragrant pies are the ideal snack to be enjoyed during the afternoon or at the end of a dinner. For the fruit tart, we always advise you to choose seasonal fruit to decorate and enrich your dessert, creating a personalized tart each time based on the period and your needs. You can also make delicious variations, for example with a base without eggs or in the more original ring shape! Play with fruit and have fun creating new compositions, alternating always different tastes and colors… express your imagination to give life to your fruit tart .
To prepare the fruit tart, start with the shortcrust pastry: put flour, the icing sugar , the seeds scraped from a vanilla bean and the cold butter into small pieces in a bowl.
Work the ingredients with your hands until you get a sandy mixture , then add the egg yolks and knead again .
When you have obtained a homogeneous and soft dough wrap it in cling film and let it rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes . If you can't work it well in a bowl, move to a work surface to compact it quickly, until it is homogeneous. Meanwhile, prepare the custard by pouring the milk into a saucepan
Perfume by grating the lemon zest , turn on the heat over low heat and bring it to just touch the boil. Pour the egg yolks into another larger saucepan, add the sugar and mix. Also add the cornstarch and flour .
Mix avoiding the formation of lumps . At this point the milk should be ready, pour a little to dilute the mixture , mix, add the remaining milk and mix again. Move everything to the stove and cook the cream, stirring constantly, until it becomes firm. This will take approximately 10 minutes .
Transfer the cream into a low and wide container, cover it with contact film and let it cool to room temperature; then put it in the refrigerator to harden . Retrieve the shortcrust pastry, roll it out on a lightly floured pastry board and make a 4 mm thick circle , lift the disc with a rolling pin and unroll into the 24 cm mold. Pass the rolling pin on the surface to remove the excess .
Prick the bottom with the tines of a fork and switch to cooking in white: it means cooking the base of the tart without filling, in a static oven, already hot at 350°F (180°C), for about 20/25 minutes . Remove the pastry base from the oven and let it cool .
Work the cooled cream with a whisk , transfer it to a pastry bag and stuff the pastry shell . Level the surface with the back of a spoon and place the tart in the refrigerator .
In the meantime, move on to cleaning and cutting the fruit. Start with the pineapple, peel it and cut it into half cm thick slices. Then derive from each obtaining 8 triangles . Switch to the kiwifruit, peel it, divide it in half lengthwise and cut it into slices .
Finally, take care of the strawberries. Remove the stalk and make 4 wedges from each . Switch to the decoration: do not too orderly. Then on the base decorated first with the strawberry wedges with the tip facing upwards , then add the slices of kiwi .
Continue with the pineapple inserting the triangles until almost the entire surface is covered . Complete garnishing with berries and a few mint leaves here and there . Your fruit tart is ready .
Keep your fruit tart for 1-2 days maximum in the refrigerator, covered by a glass bell.
Shortcrust pastry alone can be frozen raw, while freezing the finished tart is not recommended.
Pricking the base of the tart serves to prevent it from swelling during cooking in the oven: if this happens, during cooking, open the oven door and pierce the raised parts with a fork.
If you prefer, you can brush the fruit with jam or jelly. In this way it will be more shiny and will keep better.

