name:
Vegan bulgur salad
ingredients:
Bulgur: 0.5lb(200 g)
Eggplant: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Tofu: 6oz(180 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Basil: 6leaves
Oregano: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The recipes with bulgur are perfect for summer, just like our vegan bulgur salad , which will delight you with its lightness. A complete single dish, really easy to prepare. Instead of the classic rice salad, we chose bulgur as a base, a wholemeal cereal with golden and tasty grains. We enriched it with tofu, first marinated and then grilled, and grilled aubergines, chilli and a few basil leaves for a touch of freshness. A vegan and vegetarian recipe, perfect for a light lunch, to be enjoyed at home, but also comfortably in the office or during a trip. The vegan bulgur salad is a really tasty recipe, perfect for those who follow a diet without animal proteins, and more!

Bring lightly salted water to a boil and cook the bulgur . It will take about 7 minutes, but times may vary depending on the type of bulgur. Meanwhile, peel a clove of garlic and mash it. Dab the tofu with absorbent paper and put it to marinate in a bowl with the garlic; add half the chopped chilli pepper .
Also add a tablespoon of oil , turn it well and let it marinate. When the bulgur is cooked, drain it and transfer it to a bowl .
Let it cool and in the meantime take care of the eggplants. Trim them and cut them into thick slices .
Grill the eggplants on a hot grill , cooking them for a few minutes on each side over medium heat. Turn them and finish cooking. Season with salt, oregano and a little oil .
Now grill the tofu stick on all sides, it will take a few minutes . When it is well grilled, transfer it to a cutting board and cut it into cubes . Then cut the eggplants in small pieces .
Take back the bowl with the bulgur and add: tofu , eggplant and the other half of the sliced chili .
Also chop the basil leaves inside and season with a tablespoon of oil . Mix well and serve your vegan bulgur salad .
The vegan bulgur salad is also excellent in the following days. Keep it in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for 2-3 days.
To give an extra touch of freshness to the dish, you can add a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar to the hot bulgur.

