name:
Invisible apple cake
ingredients:
Fuji Apples: 1lb(450 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Whole milk: ⅔cup(150 g)
Butter: 1stick(125 g)
Sugar: ⅔cup(125 g)
Eggs: 3(180 g)- medium
Baking powder: 2tsp(10 g)
Lemon peel: 1- for grating
Vanilla bean: 1
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
After making it soft, creamy, light and butter-free, how could we not present an invisible apple cake ! No, it's not an apple dessert with superpowers, but it is a delicious version of the classic recipe: here the apples are cut into very thin slices and added to form layers in the dough, so that they melt to perfection. In this way you'll make a soft, aromatic apple cake that is still rich in fruit, perfect for breakfast or as a snack, perhaps accompanied by a creamy vanilla sauce. Even without superpowers, we're sure invisible apple cake will win you over with its simple and genuine flavor!
To make invisible apple cake , start by melting the butter in a microwave or in a saucepan on a very low flame, then leave it to one side to cool . Place the egg, the sugar and the seeds of the vanilla bean in a large bowl and stir with a manual whisk.
Add the grated lemon peel and the warm melted butter , then stir some more to amalgamate. Sieve the flour directly into the bowl a little at a time and stir it in.
Stir the sieved yeast in too . Lastly, gradually add the milk , continue to stir to form a homogeneous mixture .
Leave the dough to one side and prepare the apples: wash and cut them in half, then remove the inner most part of the core with the seeds, using a corer or a knife . Cut the apple halves into slices along the short side, using a mandolin , so that they are around 0.1 inches thick .
Butter and flour an 8" diameter spring mold and add 2 spoons of batter , then arrange a layer of apple slices on top, without overlapping them . Cover with another layer of batter and continue to alternate layers until you finish all the ingredients.
Complete the cake with an abundant layer of batter and bake in a static oven preheated to 355°F ( 180 °C) for 50 minutes. Once baked, remove from the oven and leave to cool in the mold . Sprinkle with the powdered sugar and serve your invisible apple cake !
Invisible apple cake can be stored at room temperature for 2-3 days, covered with a glass cake cloche.
If you can't find Fuji apples, use another juicy variety, such as Gala or Pink Lady.

