name:
Potato and ham pie
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2lbs( kg)
Spinach: 1lb(500 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 0.75lb(320 g)
Cooked ham: 4oz(110 g)- (in slices)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2oz(70 g)- for grating
Egg yolks: 2- (of 2 medium eggs)
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 1stick(20 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3tbsp(20 g)- for grating

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Ever thought of making a savory pie without puff pastry? The recipe for potato and ham pie will certainly make your mouth water! A flan, which on first appearance seems very similar to the classic gateau, but unlike the latter, the filling is not mixed with the dough. As soon as you cut your first slice, you'll discover rich layers of spinach, ham and stringy cheese, wrapped in soft potatoes. Ideal for a dinner with family or friends, potato and ham pie is a morish and original idea that will be popular with everyone!
To make potato and ham pie , start by placing the potatoes in cold water and cooking them for 40 minutes once the water starts to boil; pierce with a fork to check they are nicely done . In the meantime, wash and dry the fresh spinach and place it in a pan in which you previously browned a garlic clove in a drizzle of oil . Cover with the lid and cook over medium flame for around 5 minutes, until it releases its water .
Place the cooked spinach in a colander over a bowl and press down on them to remove any excess liquid .
When the potatoes are ready, peel and mash them in a large bowl while still hot, using a potato masher . Season with salt and pepper, then add the grated Grana cheese .
Add the finely chopped rosemary too , and the egg yolks . Stir into a homogeneous mixture .
Thinly slice the caciocavallo cheese . Now Butter a 9" (23 cm) diameter mold and sprinkle with the grated Grana cheese , then add more than half of the potato mixture and smooth with the back of a spoon, so that it adheres to the base and sides .
Distribute the spinach over the potato base then add half of the caciocavallo slices and the cooked ham .
Add another layer of caciocavallo and cover with the rest of the potato mixture ; press down by hand .
Brush a little oil over the surface and bake in a static oven preheated to 375°F ( 190 °C) for around 50 minutes. Once the baking time is up , remove the potato and ham pie and serve it hot or warm !
Potato and ham pie can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, covered with plastic wrap, or inside a sealed container.
It can also be frozen, perhaps in slices.
You can replace caciocavallo with other pulled curd cheeses.
You can use chard, black cabbage or turnip tops instead of spinach!

