name:
Fresh egg pasta with boar ragu
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(400 g)
Eggs: 4
Boar: 2lbs( kg)
Celery: 4stalks
Carrots: 3
White onions: 2
Garlic: 3cloves
Rosemary: 1sprig
Red wine: 7tbsp(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Tomato paste: ¼cup(75 g)
Thyme: to taste
Sage: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Dark chocolate: 1tbsp(10 g)
Juniper berries: to taste
Vegetable broth: 4cups(1 l)
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1stalk
White onions: 1
Red wine: 2cups(600 g)
Ground black pepper: to taste
Bay leaves: 4leaves

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 3 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + marinating time for the meat

instructions:
Fresh egg pasta with boar ragu is a first course characterized by classic, rustic and decisive flavors. The sauce is the undisputed queen of condiments: boar ragu is inspired by Tuscan culinary tradition and evokes all the typical aromas of game. Flavorsome and succulent boar meat is perfect for making a ragu for true connoisseurs; long marination in wine ennobles the distinct gamey note. Such an exquisite sauce deserves to be served with home made pasta, which it will coat to perfection, thanks to its porous consistency!
Check out more homemade pasta recipes:
To prepare fresh egg pasta with boar ragu , start by making the sauce: prepare the ragu by following our recipe. Marinade the meat with the vegetables in 2.5 cups of wine for 12/24 hours . Finely chop aromatic herbs and add tomato paste , then cook the meat for around 2/3 hours; add around 0.4 cups of wine and the vegetable broth, simmer and reduce .
While the ragu is cooking , prepare the fresh egg pasta: place the flour on a pastry board and form a well . Break open the eggs at room temperature and place them in the middle. Now beat with a fork .
As soon as the eggs absorb some of the flour, start kneading by hand into a homogeneous dough. Roll it into a ball and wrap in plastic wrap, or cover with the bowl. Leave the dough to rest at room temperature for at least 1 hour. Split it into three parts so that it is easier to roll out.
Sprinkle abundant flour over one piece and flatten it; do not remove the other pieces from the plastic wrap, otherwise they will dry out. Take the pasta making machine and set it to thickness level 1, the thickest setting, and feed the dough through the rollers : at first the pasta sheets will be quite thick. Fold both edges of the dough inwards to create a more regular shape, then lightly sprinkle with flour and feed it through the rolls once more; repeat several times until you reach thickness setting number 8. Place the resulting pasta on a pastry board dredged with flour and trim the edges with a spatula (or a knife), sprinkle both sides with a little flour and leave the sheets to dry for 5 minutes on each side. Take a pasta sheet, fold one edge over by around two thirds and start shaping it into a very flat roll, with the closed end up.
Cut the pasta roll into 0.8" - 1.6" thick slices . Take both ends of the pasta and spread it over your hand, roll it around your fingers to form a nest, then place it on the pastry board sprinkled with flour . Continue until you finish all the dough. Cook the pasta in boiling salted water for 4-5 minutes.
Drain the pasta and add it to the pan with the sauce , stir and serve nice and hot .
Store fresh egg pasta with boar ragu in the refrigerator, in a sealed contained for 1-2 days at most. If you have used nothing but fresh ingredients, only the ragout can be frozen.
Cook the ragu on a low flame to bring out all the flavors.

