name:
Tuna and potato bites
ingredients:
Tuna in water: 4oz(110 g)- drained
Potatoes: 3lbs(650 g)
Thyme: to taste
Sage: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Lemon peel: 1
Eggs: 2
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(150 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 15 pieces

instructions:
Small, round, delicious and tempting: little bites are a great culinary preparation and can be made in different ways. Fish is an excellent alternative to meat to whet the appetite at "marine" dinners and are perfect served as a starter. Easy to prepare, soft on the inside and fragrant on the outside: tuna and potato bites served hot are truly heavenly...your guests will appreciate the fresh taste thanks to the addition of lemon peel to the mixture, without a doubt everyone will love them! Be sure to make lots of tuna and potato bites and serve them at your party or with drinks in the company of friends! Here are some other delicious recipes with tuna you shouldn't miss:
To prepare tuna and potato bites , start by placing the potatoes in cold water and boiling them for around 40 minutes . Cooking time will vary according to the size of potatoes; pierce them with a fork to check they are done: if the prongs sink in easily, then they are ready. Now drain and peel them, then mash inside a bowl using a masher .
Leave to cool and in the meantime, finely chop the thyme and sage . As soon as the potatoes are no longer boiling hot, add the finely chopped aromatic herb mix and salt to taste .
Add pepper too , along with the grated peel of one lemon ; stir with a fork to form a uniform mixture.
Now roll into balls of around 0.9 oz and dip in the beaten egg , then in the breadcrumbs . While you prepare the balls, heat the oil in a saucepan to 340°F (170°C) (measure with a cooking thermometer).
When the oil is hot, add a few balls at a time . Fry the tuna and potato balls for around 3 minutes, then drain with a colander and place on a sheet of oil-absorbing cooking paper . Finish frying and serve your tuna and potato bites piping hot .
Tuna and potato bites are best enjoyed freshly made. If you want you can store the mixture in the refrigerator for a few hours. Freezing is not recommended.
Prepare a fresh dip for your tuna and potato bites: add some finely chopped mint and chives to greek yogurt!
If you prefer to bake your balls in the oven, preheat to a temperature of 355°F (180°C). Place the balls on a tray, add a drizzle of oil and bake for 20-35 minutes, until nice and golden.

