name:
Tiramisù semifreddo
ingredients:
Heavy cream: 1 ¼cup(340 ml)
Coffee beans: 1.5oz(40 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 2 ½cups(570 g)
Ladyfingers: 9
Egg whites: 3oz(85 g)
Sugar: 1 ⅓cup(270 g)
Water: ¼cup(60 ml)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Coffee: to taste
Sugar: to taste
Dark chocolate: ½cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + the coffee infusion times in the cream (preferably overnight) and the rest times in the refrigerator

instructions:
Savoiardi, coffee and mascarpone are three ingredients that immediately make you think of one of the most popular desserts, tiramisu . We want to surprise you with a fresh, sumptuous, original and equally delicious version: tiramisu semifreddo . The base is the classic one with ladyfingers soaked in coffee and a mascarpone-based cream with the addition of cream and Italian meringue. The trick to flavoring the cream is to leave the coffee beans in the cream for several hours: you will feel the taste and aroma of your tiramisu semifreddo! To end a dinner with friends on a sweet note, for the perfect Sunday lunch dessert, bring the elegant tiramisu semifreddo to the table, slice it and enjoy it will be a pleasure!
Check out these other tasty variations of classic tiramisu:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the tiramisu semifreddo , infuse the coffee beans in the cream for at least 2 hours and even better if overnight . In this way the cream will be flavored with coffee without absorbing its color. Cover with the plastic wrap and leave in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours. Meanwhile, prepare the Italian meringue: put the sugar in a saucepan, setting aside two tablespoons from the indicated dose . Pour the water and heat over medium heat to form the syrup,
immerse a food thermometer to make sure that the syrup reaches a temperature of 250 °F (121°C). When the syrup has reached 240°F (115°C), start beating the egg whites with a pinch of salt in a planetary mixer fitted with a whisk, when the egg whites begin to become light add the remaining sugar kept aside . Once the syrup reaches 250 °F (121°C), pour it flush into the mixer in action ,
continue to whisk until the meringue is cold . Filter the coffee from the cream with a colander and whip it with an electric whisk .
Separately in a bowl, soften the mascarpone and then add it to the Italian meringue with a spatula , also add the cream, gently so as not to dismantle it . Pour the mixture into a 10x5" (26x12 cm) mold with a 3" (7 cm) high edge, fill the mold to the brim. Brush the surface to level it . Place in the refrigerator and continue with the preparation.
Prepare the coffee with the mocha and let it cool, pouring it into a large, low bowl. Then sweeten to taste . Cut out the tip of the ladyfingers to finish them . Take back the semifreddo, soak the ladyfingers quickly so as not to soften them too much and distribute them on the surface of the cake next to each other ,
you have to cover the entire surface . Place the semifreddo in the freezer for at least another two hours. After the firming time, remove the semifreddo from the freezer and unmold it: to facilitate this operation you can immerse the mold for a few moments in boiling water or you can help yourself with a torch by heating the mold. Then turn the semifreddo over onto a serving dish and, if necessary, level the surface with a spatula. With a potato peeler, make curls from the cube - or from the bar - of chocolate. Garnish the cake with dark chocolate curls . The tiramisu semifreddo is ready to be enjoyed.
Keep the tiramisu semifreddo in the freezer for a maximum of 4-5 days. Before serving, it must be allowed to acclimate to room temperature.
We recommend not soaking the ladyfingers excessively, otherwise the base will be too soft.
It is advisable to infuse the coffee beans overnight so that the cream takes on its aroma.

