name:
Sorrisi
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1cup(180 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(300 g)
Butter: 1stick(30 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp-
Mozzarella cheese: 5oz(150 g)- (for pizza)
Tomato purée: 7tbsp(100 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 2oz(60 g)
Eggs: 3
Breadcrumbs: cup(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Sorrisi are a morish and crispy fried starter and can be made with a variety of fillings. They are popular with children because of their 'smiley' shape as well as their flavor. Crunchy on the outside, soft on the inside with a melted filling, we are sure they will win grown-ups over too! We'll show you just how simple it is to make them at home and present you with two different fillings: ham and mozzarella, or a tomato and mozzarella filling.?Obviously you can give your imagination free rein and create any pairing you like, using your favorite ingredients: mushrooms, spinach or salami are just a few you can use to enrich this dish! Serve sorrisi as a starter or second course, with a side helping of salad or tomatoes! If you are looking for an oven-baked version, discover how to make them under the recipe.
To prepare sorrisi , start by making the base dough. Place the milk in a saucepan, add the butter and a tea spoon of salt. Bring to just before the boil, then add the flour all in one go .?Stir briskly with a spatula or a wooden ladle.?
The dough will become firm in a few moments , continue cooking it for a little while longer, until it comes away from the sides of the saucepan and forms a layer at the bottom . Now place it in a low and wide container; press down gently and leave to cool.
Once cooled, place the dough on a top and add a pinch of flour . Knead it once more .
Roll it out on a pastry board until nearly 0.4 inches thick and cut into disc using a 4 inch shaping ring mold .
Knead any left-over scraps of dough , roll them out and cut using the mold: you should be able to make 8 .  Now finely chop the mozzarella and place around a third of a cup in a bowl. Add the tomato puree .
Stir thoroughly and place a heaped spoon in the middle of a disc . Fold it in half and seal to form a crescent shape .
Gently pinch the sides to seal them shut . In this way you will make 3. Then make 2 with just diced mozzarella and another 3 with ham and mozzarella .
In total you'll make 8 sorrisi . Now heat abundant oil to 320?. In the meantime, coat the sorrisi in the egg and then in the breadcrumbs, to which you will have added a pinch of salt .
Once you have thoroughly breaded the sorrisi and the oil is nice and hot, you can fry them. Immerse a few at a time and fry for a few minutes until golden . Drain the sorrisi using a skewer and place them on a tray lined with oil-absorbing cooking paper . Serve them piping hot!
Sorrisi can be frozen before cooking. Simply fry without defrosting them.
Once cooked, they are best enjoyed right away.
Looking for a lighter alternative? Bake sorrisi in a static oven with a drizzle of oil at 356°F (180°C) for 20 minutes, on the lowest shelf!
Give free rein to you imagination to create delicious fillings, just be sure to use firmer cheeses that do not release too much whey when cooked, like mozzarella!

