name:
Potato and tuna pie
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 16oz(460 g)- 2 rolls
Potatoes: 2lbs(1 kg)
Tuna in oil: 10oz(280 g)- (drained weight)
Provola cheese: 8oz(250 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1oz(50 g)- for grating
Eggs: 2
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
Take a puff pastry roll, add some potatoes and create your favorite rustic cake! You can enrich it with onions and cheese, mortadella, ham, or make this delicious potato and tuna savory cake. Simple and appetizing, it is ideal for preparing ahead and enjoying at room temperature, making it a winning idea for buffets and office lunches! We bet children will love them for dinner, perhaps served with a simple side salad. Potato and tuna savory cake will: will this be your favorite?
To make tuna and potato savory cake, start by placing the potatoes in a pan with cold water; boil them for around 40 minutes from when the water comes to the boil, depending on their size; check they are done by piercing them with a fork . In the meantime, dice the provola cheese and finely chop the parsley .
Once the potatoes are done, mash them in a bowl with a potato masher and leave them to cool before adding the beaten eggs and drained tuna .
Add the grated Grana , the diced cheese and finely chopped parsley . Season with salt and pepper, then stir thoroughly to amalgamate everything.
Place a puff pastry disc in an 11" mold lined with parchment paper and perforate the surface with a fork . Add the mixture and smooth with the back of a spoon .
Cover with the second puff pastry disc and seal the edges by pressing them together and turning them inwards . Perforate the surface too ; bake in a static oven preheated to 392? for around 40 minutes. Once baked, remove your tuna and potato savory cake and serve it hot or cold !
Potato and tuna savory cake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
It can also be frozen, perhaps in slices.
You can flavor the potato mixture with nutmeg or sweet paprika.
You can replace provola with another cheese you prefer.

