name:
Delicious peach cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 3(160 g)- medium
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(90 g)
Potato starch: 3tbsp(30 g)
Baking powder: 1tbsp(8 g)
Nectarines: 1lb(500 g)
Sugar: 1 ¾tbsp(20 g)
Lemon juice: 1
Mascarpone cheese: 2 ¼cups(500 g)- cold
Heavy cream: 2cups(500 g)- cold
Sugar: ⅔cup(125 g)
Lemon peel: to taste
Nectarines: 3.5oz(100 g)
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The delicious peach cake is a summer dessert that already from the name suggests goodness and freshness. Two discs of sponge cake, soaked with the same juice of the macerated peaches, contain a "fluffy" filling, a soft cream based on cream and mascarpone. A cascade of chopped nectarines will make each slice a riot of flavor! A dessert with a candid and elegant appearance that in its simplicity also lends itself to the most important occasions. So what are you waiting for, follow the instructions step by step and delight yourself with our delicious peach cake !
To make the delicious peach cake , first wash the peaches for the filling and cut them into cubes . Transfer the peaches to a bowl, add the lemon juice and sugar .
Mix well and let it rest for 30 minutes, in this way they will release some of their juice . Proceed to preparing the dough: pour the eggs and sugar into a bowl and whisk them with an electric whisk for about 3 minutes, then add the flour .
When the flour has been completely absorbed, add the starch and the yeast, one at a time . Continue to work with the whips until the mixture is smooth and homogeneous. Pour the dough into a 22 cm diameter mold that you have previously greased and floured . Bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F (180°C) for 15-17 minutes. Before taking out of the oven, check the cooking with a toothpick, then let it cool completely in the mold.
Meanwhile, prepare the cream: in a bowl add the mascarpone and cream cold from the fridge, then add the sugar and the grated lemon zest and whip with an electric whisk .
The consistency should be firm, but not too whipped ; transfer the cream into a piping bag without a nozzle. When the cake has cooled completely, cut it in half horizontally using a serrated knife to obtain 2 discs .
At this point, drain the peaches collecting the maceration liquid in a bowl that you will need to wet the cake . Brush the first disc from the cut side and spread a layer of cream, leveling it with a spatula. Then form a ledge along the edge, so that the peaches do not slip out .
Evenly distribute the diced peaches and cover with the second disc of cake with the cut side facing up . Brush the surface with the peach juice .
Cover the cake with the remaining cream and level it with a spatula, both on the surface and on the edges . Finally garnish with sliced peaches, lemon zest and mint leaves. Your delicious peach cake is ready to be served !
The greedy peach cake can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
You can freeze the base of the cake after baking it and letting it cool completely.
Choose peaches at the right point of ripeness so that they release enough juice. If you wish, you can flavor them with mint or basil leaves!
For a better yield you can cover the peaches on the surface with fruit jelly.

