name:
Pavlova
ingredients:
Egg whites: 3(100 g)- (around 3 medium ones) at room temperature
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Cornstarch: 3tbsp(20 g)
Lemon juice: 2tsp(10 g)
Vanilla extract: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: cup(200 g)
Powdered sugar: 3tbsp(20 g)
Kiwi: 1
Strawberries: to taste
Raspberries: to taste
Blackberries: to taste
Blueberries: to taste
Red currants: to taste
Mint: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time in a closed oven once switched off (at least 2 h)

instructions:
Pavlova is an iconic cake with an unmistakable appearance: an elegant meringue filled with whipped cream and a cascade of fresh, colorful fruit! Australia and New Zealand have always contended the origin of this recipe, but its name is actually dedicated to a famous Russian ballerina, Anna Pavlova , whose tour of both countries in the 1920s was a resounding success. The shape and whiteness of pavlova pay tribute to her elegance, which enchanted theater audiences the world over. The meringue base is different from the original one as it is crisp on the outside and soft on the inside, for a unique consistency that you too can achieve if you follow our tips and advice, step by step! Challenge yourself and make your most beautiful pavlova yet, by choosing whatever filling you prefer: kiwi and wild berries in pure New Zealand style, or passion fruit just like in the Australian version, or with chocolate cream, lemon or yogurt for an alternative flavor?
To make pavlova , start by heating a static oven to 266F, then separate the yolks from the whites: be sure to use eggs at room temperature. Place the egg whites in the bowl of a planetary mixer fitted with a whisk and switch it on at a medium-high speed. Wait for the egg whites to turn white in color, then gradually add the sugar . After adding all the sugar the meringue will become dense and creamy; now add the lemon juice .
Add the vanilla extract too and wait until absorbed: by now, the meringue will be firm in consistency ; switch the planetary mixer off and add the corn starch .
Delicately stir with a spatula from the bottom up, so as not to deflate the mixture , then place mixture on an oven tray lined with parchment paper. Use a spatula to shape the meringue into the shape of a mountain and smooth the surface .
Delicately create a well and shape the sides with a smaller spatula, from the bottom up . Bake the meringue in a preheated oven at 266F for 10 minutes, then lower the temperature to 212F and bake for another 50 minutes, without ever opening the door . Once this time is up, switch the oven off and leave the pavlova to cool for at least 2 hours, with the oven shut.
Once the pavlova has cooked, prepare the decorations: cut the kiwi in half, then into crescents ; cut the strawberries into four pieces . Lastly, wash and dry the wild berries. Now prepare the whipped cream: place the fresh liquid milk in a bowl with the powdered sugar .
Beat with an electric whisk until firm and creamy . You are now ready to fill the pavlova: delicately tap on the surface to lightly crack the meringue and delicately widen the cavity .
Fill the cavity with the whipped cream and decorate with the fresh fruit .
Garnish with the fresh mint leaves and lightly dust with the powdered sugar . Your wonderful pavlova is ready to be served !
Pavlova is best enjoyed freshly made. Humidity is a meringue's worst energy, which is why it should never be stored in the refrigerator.
You can garnish the pavlova with whatever seasonal fruits you prefer!
To prevent the meringue from sinking, one of the most common problems when preparing pavlova, be sure to add the sugar gradually and avoid beating the egg whites too fast. Never open the oven door during baking or cooling.
The lemon juice stabilizes the egg whites and can be replaced by white wine vinegar.
Corn flour gives the meringue that special consistency, which characterizes the inside of the pavlova.

