name:
Blackberry and yogurt cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Blackberries: 0.5lb(250 g)
Greek yogurt: 1cup(150 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Eggs: 2(100 g)- medium
Sunflower seed oil: ¼cup(50 g)
Baking powder: 1 ¼tbsp(16 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Sunflower seed oil: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
The simplicity of a soft cake, which combines the softness of the yogurt cake and the sweetness of the blackberry cake: blackberry and yogurt cake and the snack is served! A cake without butter that you can easily make with your children, perhaps after returning from a walk after having collected a basket full of blackberries! These black buds arise spontaneously among the brambles during the summer months and are characterized by a pleasantly sour taste, which you can enjoy all year round in the form of jam. However, we preferred to take advantage of the summer to prepare many delicious desserts such as gluten-free apple and blackberry cake, cocoa tartlets with cream and blackberries… and now the blackberry and yogurt cake!
To make the blackberry and yogurt cake, first put the eggs and sugar in a bowl , then whip with an electric whisk until the mixture is puffy and fluffy. Add the Greek yogurt and the seed oil and mix them with the whips.
Sift the flour and baking powder into the bowl, then add a pinch of salt .
Work with the whips until you get a homogeneous mixture . Finally add 150 g of blackberries, which you have previously washed and dabbed with absorbent paper, and mix gently with a marisa to incorporate them . Pour the mixture into a mold with a diameter of 20 cm, oiled and floured .
Level with the marisa and add the remaining 100 g blackberries to the surface, after having lightly floured them: in this way they will not fall to the bottom . Bake in a preheated static oven at 180 ° for about 40 minutes .
Check the cooking with a toothpick and take out of the oven, then let the cake cool in the mold . Sprinkle with powdered sugar and enjoy your blackberry and yogurt cake !
The blackberry and yogurt cake can be stored for 2-3 days at room temperature, covered with a bell.
To further flavor the dough, you can replace the Greek yogurt with wild fruit yogurt.
If you wish, you can add raspberries and blueberries to the blackberry and yogurt cake!

