name:
Pasta with broccoli, cherry tomatoes and soft bread
ingredients:
Broccoli: 10oz(300 g)- cleaned
Datterino tomatoes: 10
Paccheri pasta: 7oz(200 g)
Bread: 2oz(80 g)- Soft part
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
White onions: 1
Fresh chili pepper: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pasta with broccoli, cherry tomatoes and soft bread is a first course that is quick to prepare and characterized by delicate and delicious flavors: a delicious combination of genuineness and taste. We drew inspiration from home made pasta with broccoli, making it even more appetizing with the addition of cherry tomatoes for a touch of sweetness, and soft bread for a morish note. This is all you'll need to make a first course that is easy to prepare and incredibly flavorsome: this sauce will coat the paccheri pasta to perfection. As of today you'll add a special touch to your menu for the coldest of seasons, with this simple and quick recipe!
Discover other tempting version of this delicious pasta dish:
To prepare pasta with broccoli, cherry tomatoes and soft bread, clean the broccoli and remove the florets . Boil the florets for 10 minutes in salted water , drain and leave to one side . Use the water to cook the paccheri pasta.
Peel and chop up the onion , wash and cut the cherry tomatoes in half . Add a drizzle of oil to a pan .
Heat the oil, add the datterino tomatoes and the onion ; brown on a medium flame, add the broccoli and then the salt. Saut? for a few moments and remove from the heat.
In the meantime, bring the broccoli cooking water back to the boil and cook the paccheri pasta in it . Place the bread in a mixer and blend it .
?
In a separate pan heat the oil with the crushed garlic clove , add the grated soft bread and brown for around 6 minutes , then remove the garlic.
Drain the paccheri pasta and add to the pan with the sauce ; stir and serve the pasta with broccoli, garnished with the toasted soft bread and the fresh finely chopped peperoncino .
We recommend you enjoy pasta with broccoli, cherry tomato and soft bread freshly made.
Reuse the broccoli stalks to prepare a creamy risotto!

