name:
Rice salad with peaches, peas and stracchino cheese
ingredients:
Whole rice: 1cup(300 g)
Peach: 7oz(200 g)
Stracchino cheese: 1cup(120 g)
Mint: 0.75oz(20 g)
Peas: 3cups(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(50 g)
Pink peppercorn: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: pieces

instructions:
Rice salad with peaches, peas and stracchino cheese is a morish, colorful and genuine version of the timeless rice salad, the summer single dish par excellence, in a wholegrain version. Summer fruits were our inspiration for enriching this wholesome and versatile dish in an original way and with a sweet and sour touch. Fresh peas and the creamy touch of the fresh cheese complete the salad in just the right way. The aromatic and fresh note is fundamental, provided by a captivating mint oil that completes the dish. Discover just how simple it is to make this appetizing dish at home!
To prepare rice salad with peaches, peas and stracchino cheese, start by cooking the whole rice in a saucepan in boiling salted water for as long as it says on the packet , drain and leave it to one side . Shell the peas .

Blanche the peas for 2 minutes , then drain them and place them in a bowl with water and ice .
Peel and leave to one side . Blanche the mint leaves for 10 seconds and drain in a bowl with water and ice .
Now wring them out and place them in the bowl of a mixer with the oil , blend into a homogeneous emulsion .
Cut the peaches into 4 slices and then slice each one widthwise . Flavor the rice with mint oil , add the pink pepper and the peas .
Then add the peaches and stir thoroughly . Add salt if necessary. Place you rice salad on plates and garnish with pieces of stracchino cheese crumbled by hand straight onto the plate .
Rice salad with peaches, peas and stracchino cheese can be stored in a sealed container in the refrigerator for 2 days, without the cheese.
The skin of fresh peas is rather tough so we preferred to remove it, but you could skip this step and cook for longer to ensure the peas are tender.

