name:
No-bake ricotta cake
ingredients:
Puffed rice: ¼cup(50 g)
Dark chocolate: ⅓cup(50 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(400 g)
Powdered sugar: ½cup(50 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Nectarines: 10oz(280 g)
Red currants: 1small bunch(10 g)
Mint: 3leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 8
Note + 1 hour to firm the base

instructions:
Today we want to surprise you with a delicious dessert, made without cooking, perfect for the summer: no-bake ricotta cake , fresh and aromatic, it is perfect to be enjoyed also as a delicious snack. You will not resist the crunchy base of puffed rice and dark chocolate and you will be literally conquered by the creaminess of the vanilla-flavored ricotta, softened by the freshness of the nectarines that give a pleasant fruity note. To prepare the no-bake ricotta cake you will not need either an oven or a mixer, an easy and simple cold preparation, perfect to make even on holiday, perhaps for a birthday or a special dinner: any event is a good reason to try this delight!
To prepare the no-bake ricotta cake , start from the base. Finely chop the dark chocolate with a knife and place it in a bowl suitable for microwave cooking . Melt the chocolate in the microwave at maximum power for a few seconds, then remove the bowl and mix the chocolate with a spoon. Put it back in the microwave, heat for a few more seconds at maximum power and then mix it again. Repeat this operation until the chocolate has melted completely . Heat the puffed rice in the microwave at maximum power for about 30 seconds, this way there will be no thermal shock once the two ingredients are combined. If you do not have a microwave, you can melt the chocolate in a bain-marie and heat the puffed rice in the oven (or in a pan over very low heat), by distributing it on a baking tray lined with parchment paper. In a bowl pour the hot puffed rice, then add the melted chocolate
stir to mix the ingredients well . Transfer the mixture obtained in a rectangular tart mold (possibly with removable bottom), distribute the puffed rice mixture evenly throughout the mold , and finally press it with the back of the spoon in order to compact it at best . Once the base is made, place it in the refrigerator to harden for about 1 hour.
In the meantime, prepare the cream: sift the ricotta through a sieve to make it finer , then add the icing sugar and finally cut the vanilla pod lengthwise and with a small knife extract the seeds to flavor the cream
Mix the cream with a spatula to make it homogeneous , resume the mold with the now firm base , fill it with half of the ricotta cream, distribute it over the entire surface and compact it with the back of the spoon
Pour the remaining half of the cream into a pasty bag with a drop nozzle and distribute the filling on the central part of the cake creating a wavy pattern . Now wash the peaches and slice them finely, keeping the peel .
Garnish the cake by distributing the peach slices on both sides . Finally, add a touch of color by adding the bunches of currant and fresh mint leaves . Your no-bake ricotta cake is ready to be enjoyed!
The no-bake ricotta cake can be kept in the refrigerator for 2-3 days at the most. Freezing is not recommended.
To garnish the no-bake ricotta cake you can use other seasonal fruit as you like, such as strawberries or apricots. If you want to obtain a filling with a more delicate taste and a softer texture, you can make the cream with 300 g of ricotta and 100 g of whipped cream. Also instead of the vanilla bean you can use orange, lemon or lime zest.
If you do not have a mold with a removable bottom, you can use a normal rectangular mold of the same size and line it with parchment paper, in this way it will be easier to unmold the cake. Alternatively, you can make a round ricotta cake using a 22 cm diameter cake pan with the same doses.

