name:
Zucchini and pecorino cheese clouds
ingredients:
Zucchini: 12oz(350 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 5oz(165 g)
Eggs: 3(160 g)- (3 medium ones approximately)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(160 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(265 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 1tsp(3 g)
Thyme: 3sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Vegetable oil: 4cups(1 l)- for frying

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
A quick batter, zucchini slices, a little oil for frying and hey presto, zucchini fritters are served! We have a trick up our sleeve to make them even more special. Zucchini and pecorino cheese clouds are a brand new treat in store for you. These fritters are crisp on the outside and soft on the inside, with a texture that truly makes them as light as a cloud. How can this be? Thanks to a frothy batter that is whipped until stiff, and the addition of a pinch of instant yeast. The fritters will rise during cooking and turn into what can only be described as clouds! The addition of pecorino cheese, with its intense and persistent character, is a match made in heaven with the sweeter flavor of the zucchini, for an irresistible taste experience! Serve as a starter to guests to tantalize their taste buds in a flavorsome and original way.
To prepare zucchini and pecorino cheese clouds, start by preparing the zucchini: wash and tip them , then cut into slices of around 8 mm . Heat the oil and in the mean time separate the yolks from the eggs whites .?
Use a whisk to beat the egg whites until firm . Then beat the yolks with the same whisk for a few minutes .
Gradually add the milk , then the flour and the yeast , stirring with the whisk all the while.?
Remove the whisk and add the pecorino cheese . Stir and then add the thyme leaves .
Flavor with salt and pepper and stir once more before adding the zucchini slices .?Now gradually add the egg whites .
Delicately stir them in with a turner to avoid deflating the egg whites . By now the oil will have reached a temperature of 170?: fry the clouds by immersing a few pieces at a time .
They will cook in around 3-4 minutes ; turn them over half way into the cooking time and drain them on some absorbent paper . Proceed in this way to obtain around forty pieces. Serve your zucchini and pecorino cheese clouds while they are still nice and hot .
Zucchini and pecorino cheese clouds are best enjoyed right away.
If you want you can store them for a day, but the consistency will change.
To temper the taste of the pecorino cheese, you can replace a part of it with some more delicate Parmigiano Reggiano DOP cheese. If you want to make your zucchini clouds even more flavorsome, add some olives or dried tomatoes to the batter, even better if finely chopped!

