name:
Zucchini lasagna
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3(165 g)- (medium)
Whole milk: 4cups(1 l)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(100 g)
Butter: 1stick(100 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Zucchini: 1lb(800 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1cup(120 g)- (grated)
Extra virgin olive oil: 6tbsp(80 g)
Basil: 2tbsp(15 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note +30 minutes pasta resting time

instructions:
How can anyone resist a plate of lasagna? Layers of fresh pasta alternated with a variety of creamy and flavorsome sauces: today we bring you a delicious zucchini lasagna! With the queens of summer we present you with this fresh pasta first course and its simple, genuine flavors, exalted by a truly masterful touch! We rustled up a light zucchini pesto, for an extra special touch!?In between the layers of lasagna with zucchini, so creamy thanks to the home made bechamel, a pinch of pepper for aroma and verve, and a generous grating of cheese, for an even more flavorsome and melted effect! Dreams do come true, right? Except that this isn't a dream: all you need to do is gather the ingredients you need together and start turning this delicacy into exquisite reality!
Discover more delicious Lasagna recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare lasagna with zucchini, start with the fresh pasta: place the flour in a bowl, make a well in the middle, add the eggs and stir the flour in with a fork . Once the liquid part is absorbed, start kneading by hand .
Place on a pastry board and knead for around 10 minutes . Wrap it in plastic wrap once smooth and leave to rest at room temperature for at least 30 minutes .
In the meantime prepare the bechamel: start by heating the milk and delicately melting the butter . Add the flour all in one go and stir with a whisk .
Pour in the hot milk after 1-2 minutes , stirring all the while to prevent lumps from forming. Continue stirring for around 5 minutes until the sauce takes on the right consistency . Once cooked, flavor with salt and nutmeg and cover with plastic wrap so as to avoid a skin from forming .
Now prepare the zucchini: leave 0.8 cups to one side for later, tip and thinly slice the remaining ones with a mandolin . Now tip the zucchini you left to one side and coarsely chop them up .
Place them in the bowl of a mixer and add the previously washed basil, some salt and the oil .
Blend the ingredients into a smooth and homogeneous cream with an immersion blender . Leave to one side . Now take the piece of pasta dough and divide it in half; keep the half you are not using covered in the plastic wrap .
Briefly knead the piece of dough with a pinch of flour and then feed it through the rolls of a pasta machine : start on the thickest setting and gradually work your way down to the thinnest one . Cut the resulting pasta sheets into rectangles that are roughly 3.5"x6.2" in size .
Place your pasta sheets on a tray lined with a lightly dampened cloth . Now you can compose the lasagna: take a 8"x12" baking tray and add a layer of bechamel on the bottom . Add the first layer of pasta sheets .
Spread some more bechamel over it and add the zucchini pieces so that they are facing in the opposite direction from the pasta . Add salt, pepper and a sprinkling of grated cheese .
Now add a few spoons of zucchini cream and proceed with another layer of pasta, bechamel , salt, pepper and cheese and lastly, the zucchini cream . Continue until you finish all the ingredients.
Pour any remaining bechamel and zucchini cream over the last layer of zucchini, sprinkle with cheese : it is ready to be baked. Bake lasagna with zucchini in a static oven preheated to 392F for around 40 minutes + 4-5 minutes under the grill for a nice and golden surface . Leave to rest for 5 minutes after baking, then sprinkle the basil over it and serve .
Lasagna with zucchini can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
They can be frozen, best after baking.
Try adding some coarsely chopped nuts, like almonds or walnuts, or if you like, some chopped tomatoes in oil.

