name:
Pizza croissants
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(350 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1cup(150 g)
Water: 1cup(270 g)- at room temperature
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(5 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 5oz(160 g)- for pizza
Tomato purée: 5tbsp(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + leavening time (around 4.5 h)

instructions:
After making sweet croissants for breakfast and savory croissants as an appetizer with drinks, pizza croissants were bound to be next on our list! Yes that's right: instead of puff pastry we've used pizza dough to create a sort of typical crescent-shaped panzerotti . However, instead of baking in the oven, we present you with this irresistible fried version that will make everyone's mouth water! A tomato and mozzarella filling has been chosen for this recipe, just like the most classic of pizza toppings, but feel free to enrich it however you like, by creating even more tantalizing and inviting flavors. Pizza croissants are ideal enjoyed with your friends, served with fresh beer, but they are just one of many reinterpretations of this well-loved recipe: try pizza rings or muffins !
If you love pizza you can't miss these recipes:
To make pizza croissants, start by preparing the dough: place the dough in a large bowl , add the crumbled yeast and all the water . Mix by hand and then stir the yeast in thoroughly with a ladle.
Add the salt and oil , then start kneading .
Place the dough on a work top and continue to knead for around 10 minutes , until smooth and homogeneous. Place the dough in a lightly oiled bowl, cover with plastic wrap and leave to leaven for around 3 hours and 30 minutes, until it doubles in volume . In the meantime you can cut the mozzarella into strips .
Once the leavening time is up , place the dough on a work top lightly sprinkled with dough and press down gently with your hands , before rolling it out using a rolling pin, into a 0.4 inch thick rectangle .
Fold one of the short sides to the middle , then repeat on the other side: make sure the edges match , then fold the rectangle in half : in this way you will form a 4-way-fold.
Spread the dough out once more to form a rectangle, this time 0.8 inches thick . Divide the rectangle in half lengthwise and use each half to form 8 triangles, so that there are 16 in total .
Spread and gently pull out each triangle , then spread the tomato puree previously flavored with salt and oil over the surface . Add a few strips of mozzarella .
Roll the triangles up from the base to the tip , then place them on a tray lined with parchment paper, with the closed side down . Cover with plastic wrap or with another tray and leave to leaven for another hour.
Once this time is up, heat the seed oil to 320?. In the meantime cut the parchment paper around each croissant , so that it will be easier to slide them into the hot oil . Fry 1-2 croissants a time, for around 3 minutes, then place them on the absorbent paper . Your pizza croissants are ready to be enjoyed!
As with all fried foods, pizza croissants are best enjoyed freshly made.
Alternatively they can be frozen once fried.
You can flavor the filling with oregano, or enrich it with some cooked ham.
For a lighter but less fragrant version, bake the pizza croissants in a static oven at 428 °F (220 °C) for 25 minutes, with the tray on the lowest shelf.

