name:
Zucchini roll
ingredients:
Eggs: 4- medium
Zucchini: 2
Caciocavallo cheese: 2oz(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2tbsp(50 g)- grated
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Arugula: to taste
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: to taste
Almond slices: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 15 minutes resting time

instructions:
Zucchini roll is a version of the delicious oven-baked stuffed frittata roll a fresh and genuine vegetarian second course that will add a touch of color and imagination to your summer table! With our recipe you'll discover a new and even more delicious way of preparing frittata: the filling is an appetizing mix of flavorsome ingredients that will add a special touch to this savory roll. Once ready it can be enjoyed cold and is perfect served as part of a buffet at home in the company of your friends!
To prepare zucchini roll , start by grating the caciocavallo cheese and the thoroughly washed and dried zucchini, with a large-holed grater . Place the eggs and caciocavallo cheese in a bowl .
Add the zucchini, the thyme , the salt and the pepper too . Stir to amalgamate the mixture.
Line a rectangular 14x11 inch tray with parchment paper, grease the bottom with a little oil and pour in the mixture . Wash, dry and thinly slice another zucchini .
Decorate the surface of the frittata with the zucchini slices . Flavor with thyme and pepper and bake in a static oven preheated to 356 °F (180 °C) for around 25 minutes.
Remove the base from the oven and turn it over on a cutting board to remove the parchment paper . Leave to cool (at room temperature for half an hour, or in the refrigerator for 15 minutes). Prepare the filling: place the drained ricotta and Grana cheese in a bowl .
Season with the salt, pepper and a little oil , then stir. Once the base has cooled, spread the ricotta mixture over the surface of the frittata . Add the arugula to taste .
Complete the filling with the drained tomatoes and a handful of toasted almond shards . Roll it up and leave to firm in the refrigerator until you are ready to serve you zucchini roll .
You can store zucchini roll in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap, for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
The resting time in the refrigerator is not necessary, but it does make the roll firmer to the cut.

