name:
Swordfish and eggplant bites with tomato sauce
ingredients:
Swordfish: 9oz(250 g)
Eggplant: 1lb(450 g)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Eggs: 2
Fine salt: 1tsp
Black pepper: 1pinch
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 5tbsp- grated
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 2small bunches
Tomato purée: 2 ½cups(650 g)
Onions: 1- small
Basil: 2leaves
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the swordfish and eggplant bites , first wash the eggplant, place it on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and cook for 40 minutes in a preheated conventional oven at 392 °F (200°C). Meanwhile, place the swordfish and bay leaves in a pan, cover with water and boil for 15 minutes. When cooked, drain the swordfish ,
with a knife remove the skin and then place it in pieces in a bowl. When the eggplant is ready, take it out of the oven, place it on a board and cut it in half lengthwise . With a spoon extract the pulp and place it together with the swordfish.
Blend everything to reduce them to a puree, then add the eggs, grated Parmesan , salt and pepper.
Squeeze the garlic clove , flavor with chopped parsley and mix all the ingredients .
Add the breadcrumbs and mix to obtain a soft dough . Take small portions of dough and form balls the size of a walnut .
Now heat a little oil in a pan, place the balls and brown them for a minute , turning them, so as to obtain a homogeneous browning. In another pan heat a little oil with the chopped onion and brown it for a few minutes. Then pour the tomato puree
and the fish balls , flavored with the basil leaves and cook over low heat for 20 minutes. When cooked you can enjoy your very hot swordfish and eggplant bites with tomato sauce .
Keep the swordfish and egglant bites in the refrigerator and consume them within 3 days. Raw fish balls can be frozen.
To avoid the dough being too dry, add breadcrumbs at the end, a little at a time, so as to adjust the dose according to the texture of the dough.

