name:
Wild berry cheesecake
ingredients:
Cookies: 6oz(180 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 3cups(500 g)-
Cream cheese: 1cup(250 g)-
Heavy cream: ½cup(100 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(150 g)
Isinglass: 0.33oz(10 g)-
Lemon peel: 1-
Blackberries: 1cup(190 g)
Blueberries: 1cup(180 g)
Raspberries: 1cup(180 g)
Currants: 1cup(135 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(100 g)
Lemon juice: 5tbsp(70 g)
Cornstarch: 5tbsp(35 g)
Berries: 1cup(280 g)
Berries: 5tbsp(50 g)
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: High
Note + firming time

instructions:
When it comes to dessert, nothing beats cheesecake with its explosive flavor!! Today we present you with wild berry cheesecake , a no-bake version that will win you over with its amazing freshness...three layers of sweetness that will unleash a triumph of aromas, scents and textures, right from the very first bite! A crumbly plain cookie base embraces a soft lemon-favored cream, topped with a delicious wild berry puree. Wild berry cheesecake is the perfect summer cake for an alluring and delicious end to a special dinner...no one will be able to take their eyes off it once you bring it to the table and it will certainly take center stage with its soft, high-impact crimson color.
For other cheesecakes:
To make wild berry cheesecake , start by preparing the base for this dessert: melt the butter in a small saucepan on a very low flame, then remove from the heat and leave to cool. In the meantime, place the cookies in the mixer and blend them into a fine powder ; place them in a bowl and add the melted butter after it has cooled slightly .
Stir with a spoon to amalgamate the mixture , then butter a 8 inch mold and line it with parchment paper, add the cookies and use a spoon to press it down , for a firm and smooth base . Leave to firm for at least half an hour in the refrigerator, so that the base becomes solid.
Prepare the filling in the meantime: soak the isinglass in a large bowl with cold water for around 10 minutes, until soft (it will make the cream firmer). Squeeze and filter the juice of the lemon . Wash and pat the wild berries dry, place them in a large pan and add the lemon juice .
Now add the powdered sugar , stir and cook for around 5 minutes on a low flame; stir occasionally. Once the cooking time is up for the fruit, remove from the heat , drain the wild berries in a colander, leave them to cool and place a bowl under the colander to collect the juice . You'll use the wild berries for the filling, and the juice for the topping.
Now heat the milk in a saucepan, drain and thoroughly wring out the gelatin before melting it in the heated milk . Stir with a whisk until fully dissolved . Leave to cool. In the meantime, sieve the ricotta in a colander and place it in a bowl ; if the ricotta is especially rich in whey, it is best to leave it to drain in the colander for 1-2 hours.
Now add the fresh spreadable cheese , the grated lemon peel and the powdered sugar ; stir with a spatula or a whisk to amalgamate the cream, add the milk (in which you melted the gelatin), which will have cooled to lukewarm by now ; stir until smooth.
Remove the mold from the refrigerator, the base will be nice and firm by now. Pour half of the creamy mixture over the cookie base. Smooth the surface with a spatula and then add the previously drained wild berries . Cover the layer of fruit with the remaining cream ,
smooth the surface with a spatula and leave in the refrigerator to firm up for 2 hours. Once the cheesecake is nice and cold, prepare the topping: pour 10 oz of the wild berry juice you left to one side in a saucepan and add the sieved cornstarch .  Stir with a whisk to prevent lumps from forming, place the saucepan on the stove and slowly thicken on a low flame for around 5 minutes, then leave to cool; stir frequently.
Now remove the cheesecake from the refrigerator, pour the wild berry sauce over it and smooth the surface with a spatula . Place back in the refrigerator for the topping to firm up, for at least 1 hour. Once nice and firm, garnish with the wild berries. You wild berry cheesecake is ready to be enjoyed !
Wild berry cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2/3 days. If you want to freeze it, do so without the topping glaze.
You can use whatever cookies you prefer for the base: for example, cocoa ones will make the cake even more morish!

