name:
Wild boar ragu
ingredients:
Boar: 2lbs( kg)
Carrots: 3
Celery: 4stalks
White onions: 2
Garlic: 3cloves
Rosemary: 1sprig
Red wine: 7tbsp(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Tomato paste: ⅓cup(75 g)
Thyme: to taste
Sage: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Dark chocolate: 1tbsp(10 g)
Juniper berries: to taste
Vegetable broth: 4cups(1 l)
Red wine: 2cups(600 g)
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1stalk
White onions: 1
Ground black pepper: to taste
Bay leaves: 4leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
Looking to bring the authentic flavors of Tuscan maremma to your table? Then boar ragu is perfect for you! Boar ragu, often appreciated together with duck ragu, is an extremely flavorsome alternative to classic ragu. Boar is well-loved for it unique and robust taste, ideal for preparing an appetizing first course, like typical pappardelle, which amalgamate with the sauce, exalting its intense flavor, this ragu will win over even the most demanding of palates, with its deliciously wild after-taste. What are you waiting for? Fire up those stoves: today we're cooking boar ragu!
Discover more delicious Sauces recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare boar ragu , coarsely chop the celery , carrot and onion .
Cut the boar into slices and place in a bowl , then add the vegetables and bay leaves, then cover with the red wine . Leave to marinade for at least 12 hours and no longer than 24 hours . This will tame the strong gamey flavor.
Once the marinating time is up, cut the meat into small pieces, each around 0.4 inches (1 cm) in size , then leave them to one side and chop the carrots .
Do the same with celery and onion . Place the vegetables in a pan with a drizzle of oil and the garlic cloves .
Add the juniper berries and the aromatic herbs tied together with the cooking twine . Sweat all the vegetables for about 20 minutes, and add the tomato paste .
Add some red wine, and simmer . Once the alcohol has evaporated, add the previously chopped boar meat . Cook over medium/high flame for a few minutes and add the hot vegetable broth .
Cook with the lid half covering the pan over a very low heat, until the broth is reduced and the meat becomes tender. It usually takes around 1.5 hours. Add the grated dark chocolate and season with salt .
Add pepper to taste and the boar ragu is ready to be enjoyed with some homemade pasta .
Boar ragu can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 or 3 days in a sealed container. You can also freeze it, only if you use fresh, not defrosted, ingredients.
To make this boar ragu even softer, cook it even longer, or cook it over an even lower flame... the result will be amazing!

