name:
Egg-free lemon cream
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1 ½cup(350 ml)
Heavy cream: ⅔cup(150 ml)
Lemons: 2- (big, organic bio ones)
Cornstarch: ⅓cup(50 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Powdered turmeric: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
How many times have you ever wanted to prepare a pastry cream and be without eggs? Today we show you how to make egg-free lemon cream , perfect even for those who can't or don't want to eat them! The technique is the same as the classic one: thanks to the addition of a pinch of turmeric at the end of the preparation you will also get a very similar color. By using cream and milk and enriching it with lots of lemon zest, we can guarantee that no one will notice the difference! You can use this lemon cream for many desserts, such as our tart without eggs for example, or simple cookies!
To prepare egg-free lemon cream , first wash the lemons well and dry them. Using a potato peeler, remove only the zest, without removing the white part . In a saucepan pour the sugar and cornstarch , mix with a spatula or spoon .
Pour the milk slowly , stirring to avoid lumps. Also add the fresh cream and mix again with a whisk .
Add the lemon peels and cook the cream over a very low heat, until it thickens . Remove from the heat and add a pinch of turmeric to obtain a yellow cream.
Mix and remove the lemon peels . Transfer the cream to a bowl , cover with plastic wrap and let it cool, first at room temperature and then in the refrigerator before using it . For smooth cream, before using it, mix a few seconds with a whisk.
The egg-free lemon cream can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, well covered.
It is possible to freeze it, but once thawed it will be less creamy.
If you see lumps forming during cooking, you can sieve the cream or blend with an immersion blender.
It is possible to replace cow's milk with vegetable milk and heavy cream with vegetable cream.
If the lemons are small, use 3.

