name:
Pantesca salad
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1lb(400 g)
Pomodori di Pachino (cherry tomatoes): 0.66lb(300 g)
Salted capers: 3tbsp(30 g)- of Pantelleria
Green olives: 5tbsp(50 g)- pitted
Red onions: 1
White wine vinegar: 1tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Oregano: to taste- dried
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pantesca salad is a traditional recipe of the island of Pantelleria: a wonderful land, rich in nature and gastronomic treasures. Colorful and fresh, this dish is a veritable triumph of Mediterranean flavors: nestled on a boiled potato and cherry tomato base you'll find sweet and crispy red onion, aromatic oregano, flavorsome olives and typical capers in salt, the pride and joy of this land. This amazing mix of ingredients is completed by a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil, even better if Sicilian. Add a special touch to your summer lunches with pantesca salad and finish the menu off with another specialty this island has to offer: baci panteschi !
Furthermore, discover the recipe for our perfect dressing for all your salads: Homemade Italian Dressing
To prepare pantesca salad , start by washing and boiling the potatoes without peeling them, for around 30-35 minutes: place them in cold salted water , the cooking time varies according to the size of potatoes. Peel and thinly slice the onion . Wash the tomatoes and cut them in half .
Place the onion, tomatoes , olives and desalted capers in a large bowl .
Flavor with the hand-torn basil leaves and dried oregano. The potatoes are ready now: drain, peel and leave them to cool before cutting them into pieces . Add the potatoes to the rest of the ingredients .
Season with white wine vinegar , oil and salt to taste. Stir to flavor and your pantesca salad is ready !
Pantesca salad can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you want, you can enrich pantesca salad with some chopped baked fish, boiled octopus, chopped tuna or mackerel in brine, or boiled chicken pieces.
The ingredients of this land are so flavorsome that we have used them to make other Pantelleria-inspired recipes, such as the mille-feuillle starter!

