name:
Pasta with burrata cream and smoked salmon
ingredients:
Cavatelli pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Burrata cheese: 1cup(200 g)
Smoked Salmon: 7oz(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Pink peppercorn: to taste
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pasta with burrata cream and smoked salmon is a truly heavenly, quick and simple first course! A few minutes is all it takes to prepare this delicious pasta dish, perfect on every occasion and whatever the season. The smoked flavor of the salmon is a match made in heaven with the sweetness of the burrata cheese, while the pink pepper adds an unexpected aromatic touch! We chose cavatelli for this dish, perfect with the cream, but you could also use spaghetti or any other type of pasta you like. Pasta with burrata cream and smoked salmon will become your favorite recipe: it is quick to make for a truly delicious dinner!
To prepare pasta with burrata cream and smoked salmon, start with the latter. Start by cutting it into strips and then dice into pieces that are roughly 0.4 inches in size . Leave to one side and heat a saucepan filled with salted water on the stove, which you'll use for cooking the pasta. Now turn to the cream. Place the burrata cheese in a tall and narrow container and add the extra virgin olive oil .
Add 1 spoon of pink pepper corns and blend into a smooth cream using an immersion blender .
Add the cavatelli pasta as soon as the water starts to boil . Cook them according to the instructions on the packet. In the meantime place the burrata cream in a large pan, in which you'll toss the pasta. Add a ladle of cooking water to temper the sauce. Drain the pasta as soon as it is cooked and add it to the cream .
Add the basil leaves and stir . Now add the smoked salmon .
Stir some more and toss the pasta on a high flame for a few minutes to achieve the perfect creamy consistency . Serve on plates .
Pasta with burrata cream and salmon can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day at most.
If you do not care for the taste of pink pepper you can leave it out and use an aromatic herb of your choice instead.

