name:
Spaghetti with clams and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Spaghettoni: 0.75lb(320 g)
Clams: 2lbs(1 kg)
Cherry tomatoes: 1lb(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh chili pepper: ½
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Spaghetti with clams and cherry tomatoes , the classic spaghetti with clams with the added touch : of sweet cherry tomatoes, a match made in heaven with clams and creamy cooked pasta! This simple and quick first course is one of the most delicious and best-appreciated ones, for a quick dinner in company! This first course is perfect for making a good impression with your diners in a simple way, showcasing all the flavors of the sea in just a few easy steps. If you have never creamed spaghetti you'll see just how easy this cooking method is; the pasta will capture all the flavor of the cooking water used to coax the clams open. Are you ready to try it?
To prepare spaghetti with clams and cherry tomatoes , start by checking for and discarding any clams with broken or open shells. Then beat the bivalves against a surface: if any open, it is because they were empty or full of sand . Lastly, rinse the clams several times . Cut the tomatoes in half .
Brown 2 peeled garlic cloves in a pan and half a deseeded peperoncino in a generous drizzle of oil , add two sprigs of parsley and leave to flavor for 5 minutes . Add the tomatoes and cook for 2 minutes .
Add the clams , bring the temperature up and cover with a lid right away . In this way the mollusks will open: this will take a few minutes .
Once the clams open, filter them , remove the garlic and the parsley .
Shell the clams and leave a few whole for the final decoration . Heat some lightly salted water and now place the filtered sauce in a pan , together with the cooked tomatoes left in the colander. Heat it up before adding the spaghetti .
Now cook them just like a risotto: simply add the water little by little and stir . Once cooked, sprinkle with some finely chopped parsley .
Add the clams, both the whole and shelled ones , quickly toss and now your spaghetti with clams and cherry tomatoes are ready to be enjoyed .
Spaghetti with clams and cherry tomatoes are best enjoyed right away.
If you don't fancy chili pepper, leave it out, for more delicate spaghetti with clams and cherry tomatoes.
If you prefer a slightly more acidic flavor, add a little white wine to the clams, simmer and reduce.

