name:
Eggplant bites
ingredients:
Eggplant: 1lb(800 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(120 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1cup(120 g)- grated
Eggs: 1- medium
Garlic: 1clove
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Vegetable oil: to taste- for frying

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 35 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Today we present you with eggplant bites ! Small and delicious bites you can enjoy one after another, with their tempting mix of softness and crispness they are perfect served as a vegetarian alternative to classic meatballs, which they are just as good as. Many regions in Italy have laid claim as to their origin, but one thing is certain: eggplant bites are a southern Italian recipe, where the tenderest and sweetest vegetables are harvested in the summer! Follow our recipe and make this delicious finger food, perfect for enriching your buffet or for a happy hour with friends: you'll enjoy eating them with your fingers and finish each one in one bite!!!
You may also like these vegetarian meatball recipes:
To make eggplant bites , start by washing the vegetables; place them on an oven tray lined with parchment paper and bake in a static oven preheated to 390°F (200 °C) for 1 hour. Once baked , leave the eggplants to cool before removing the skin and stalk .
Place the pulp in a colander and gently press with a fork to remove any excess liquid . Place the eggplant puree in a clean glass bowl, add the egg and a previously crushed garlic clove .
Now add the breadcrumbs and the grated Parmigiano Reggiano , as well as salt and pepper to taste . Wash, finely chop the parsley
and stir it into the mixture . Stir all the ingredients thoroughly together by hand . If the mixture is too liquid, add some more breadcrumbs.
When ready, take a small amount and roll it into a walnut-sized ball by hand , then coat in the breadcrumbs . Once you have finished all the mixture, heat some oil in a saucepan to 340°F (170°C) (use a cooking thermometer to measure the exact temperature). When the oil is hot, add a few balls at a time
and wait for 2-3 minutes , until nice and golden, drain and place them on a tray lined with kitchen paper, which will absorb the excess oil. Serve your eggplant bites piping hot !
We recommend you enjoy eggplant bites freshly made, but if you want you can store them in the refrigerator, inside a sealed container, for no longer than a couple of days. You can freeze the eggplant balls uncooked and then fry them whenever you want.
If you want to avoid frying, you can bakeyour bites: they won't stay perfectly round but they'll still be delicious and a bit lighter too. In this case try 390°F (200 °C) for 15-20 minutes. Test the ideal time and temperature for your oven by baking only a few balls the first time round!

