name:
Pasta with cherry tomatoes anchovies and onion
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Red onions: 3oz(90 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 1lb(450 g)- red and yellow
Anchovies in oil: 18fillets
Fresh chili pepper: ½
Basil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
When you're running low on inspiration in the kitchen but still crave a delicious first course, we'll be there to help you! Pasta with cherry tomatoes, anchovies and onions is a simple but extremely flavorsome first course. A handful of ingredients are what make this dish unique: sweet onions, colorful tomatoes, the savory flavor of anchovies and aromatic basil! They are all easy to find, so you can use them to prepare a delicious dinner! We chose linguine pasta for this sauce, but let your imagination run wild and personalize this recipe by using whatever pasta shape you like. Here are some other pasta recipes that are easy to make:
To prepare pasta with cherry tomatoes, anchovies and onion , start by preparing the latter ingredient. Peel and cut the onions in half . Thinly slice them and leave to one side. Now prepare the peperoncino: remove the seeds and finely chop them up .
Thoroughly wash the cherry tomatoes. Cut the cherry tomatoes in half and the rest into 4 pieces . Prepare the anchovies to garnish the dish: cut 8 into small lozenges and leave to one side.
Add a drizzle of oil to a pan and then the onion, the peperoncino and the remaining 10 anchovies . Add the basil too .
Cover with a lid and braise on a low flame for around 15 minutes. In the meantime, cook the pasta so that it is firm to the bite, in abundant water, salted to taste. After 15 minutes , turn the flame up and add the tomato halves .
Remove the basil and add a couple of ladles of water . When the pasta is firm to the bite, add it to the saucepan with the sauce .
Finish cooking by adding cooking water as needed. Stir and add some torn basil and a pinch of pepper .
Add the tomato quarters and a drizzle of oil . Serve the linguine pasta hot and complete the dish with the anchovy fillets .
We recommend enjoying this pasta dish freshly made.
Add a little water if the onion dries out during cooking.

