name:
Summer tomato soup (pappa al pomodoro)
ingredients:
Datterino tomatoes: 6.66lbs(3 kg)
Tuscan bread: 1.33lbs(600 g)- stale
Carrots: 2
Celery: 2stalks
Basil: 1small bunch
Thyme: 1small bunch
Marjoram: 1small bunch
Spring onions: 2
Red garlic: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Burrata cheese: 1
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 12/24 hours rest

instructions:
The simplest ancient dishes have stood the test of time thanks to their genuine and honest flavors that know how to best enhance the natural and seasonal ingredients. The summer tomato soup (pappa al pomodoro) is a tribute to the traditional Tuscan tomato soup: bread, tomato and garden aromas  - in this version are mixed cold - with a long rest and maceration time that will give an intense taste and aroma. A concentrate of healthy and fresh ingredients, perfect to refresh you on the hottest days. Complete this dish with a burrata for a delicate and tasty note to the summer tomato soup !

To prepare the summer tomato soup (pappa al pomodoro), place the datterini tomatoes in the extractor and collect the juice in a large bowl . Peel and chop the carrots .
Do the same with celery and the spring onion . In the bowl with the tomato juice pour the freshly cut vegetables .
Add basil too. Divide the head of red garlic into two unequal parts and use the smallest one , thyme and marjoram.
Mix, cover with plastic wrap and leave to macerate in the fridge for 12/24 hours, depending on whether you want a stronger flavor or not. Meanwhile, cut the crust off the bread and dice it .
Place the pieces of bread on a pan lined with parchment paper and toast them in a conventional oven at 390 °F (200°C) for 4-5 minutes to obtain croutons . After the maceration time, filter the juice .
Collect the juice in a bowl , pour it on the croutons and mix .
Add oil just enough to soften the mixture . Serve the summer tomato soup garnished with a spoonful of burrata and basil leaves .
Summer tomato soup can be kept for a couple of days in the refrigerator.
If you do not have an extractor, you can use a food processor or a regular mixer. The stale bread can be blended into breadcrumbs.

