name:
Stuffed zucchini
ingredients:
Round zucchini: 4
Pork: 0.25lb(100 g)- ground
Sausage: 0.25lb(100 g)- pork
Eggs: 1- medium
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ¼cup(30 g)- grated
Parsley: 1tbsp
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 0.25oz(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the time needed to drain the zucchini

instructions:
To prepare the stuffed zucchini , wash the zucchini under running water, dry them with a clean cloth, and cut off the top to form the lid . Score the inner perimeter with a small knife, then make an X in the flesh and remove one segment at a time .
Next, scoop out the inside using a melon baller or teaspoon , creating a shell around ?” (1 cm) thick . This way, you’ll have both the lids and the shells ready to be stuffed. Season the insides of the zucchini with salt and bake in the oven at 390°F (200°C) for 15 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the filling: Place the ground pork in a bowl and add the sausage, with the skin already removed , and the grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese .

Then add the chopped zucchini flesh , the egg, lightly beaten , and the chopped breadcrumb .
Now add the chopped parsley, season with salt and pepper , and combine the mixture with your hands until it’s even .
Grease a deep baking dish with a good glug of oil . Take the (cooked) zucchini and put them in the dish , then fill them to the brim with the stuffing you just made .
Put the lids in the dish as well and bake in a conventional oven preheated to 340°F (170°C) for around 60 minutes. Once the stuffed zucchini have gone golden and crispy on the surface , take them out of the oven and serve them up , placing the lids on top of the stuffing .

Store the stuffed zucchini in the fridge in an airtight container for up to 2 days. You can freeze them if the ingredients you used were all fresh, i.e., not defrosted.
There are lots of different variations on the stuffed zucchini filling; you can let your imagination run wild and change the type of meat used or even use canned tuna fillets in oil instead!

