name:
Cookie cheesecake
ingredients:
Chocolate cookies: 0.66lb(300 g)
Butter: ¼cup(55 g)
Cream cheese: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Sugar: ⅔cup(120 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Heavy cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Chocolate cookies: 4.5oz(125 g)
Isinglass: 0.33oz(10 g)
Chocolate cookies: 3oz(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + il tempo di rassodamento della base e della crema

instructions:
Have you ever thought of turning the delicious American cookies into a cold cake? GialloZafferano gave it a try and the result is this wonderful cookie cheesecake , a cake made of a crunchy base of chocolate cookies and a sweet cream cheese with pieces of American chocolate cookies in it! It is very simple to try this yummy cheesecake and you can use your favorite cookies and ingredients to make even more irresistible... here are some ideas: chocolate chips, white chocolate, dried fruit or blueberries. A delicious temptation for a snack or as after-dinner dessert: cookie cheesecake is worth trying!
Here other cheesecakes:
To make the cookie cheesecake , start from the base: melt the butter in a saucepan over very low heat and let it cool. Meanwhile, put the cookies in a mixer and blend them finely . Transfer them to a bowl, add the previously melted butter and
mix with a spoon . Grease and line a mold with parchment paper. Pour the crumbled cookies in the pan and, with the back of a spoon, compact the cookie base well . Let the base cool in the refrigerator for half an hour or in the freezer for 15 minutes.
Meanwhile, let's move to the filling: soak the gelatin sheets in a bowl with cold water for at least 10 minutes . In the meantime, pour the cream into the mixer (set aside two tablespoons of heavy cream, as you will need to dissolve the gelatin in it) and whisk it . Transfer the cream in a small bowl and place it in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap. Then in the same bowl of the planetary mixer, pour the cream cheese, add the sugar .
Add the vanilla extract (you can also use the seeds of 1 vanilla bean as an alternative) and mix until it becomes a homogeneous cream. Meanwhile, in a saucepan, heat the two tablespoons of heavy cream set aside previously. When hot, turn off the heat and add the squeezed gelatine sheets . Mix to make it dissolve completely (this step is very important for a good firming of the cream) and let it cool. When it reaches room temperature, add the cream with gelatin in the cream cheese and mix. You can also do these steps in a bowl of an electric mixer.
Incorporate the whipped cream to the cream cheese , adding it a little at a time and stirring gently with a spatula from bottom to top until homogeneous. Then coarsely chop the cookies
and add them to the cream . Mix with a spatula and pour the mixture in the pan with the now cooled cookie base . Level the surface .
Place the cheesecake in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours to firm. Once the cookie cheesecake is ready, unmold it by removing the opening circle from the pan, gently remove the base of the mold and place it on a serving dish . Decorate the surface with crumbled cookies and your cheesecake is ready to be enjoyed!
Cookie cheesecake can be kept in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for 3-4 days. You can freeze it, dividing it into portions if you prefer, and stored it in the appropriate food containers. Defrost the cheesecake in the refrigerator when needed.
For the base you can use the cookies you like the most.

