name:
Egg-free pancakes
ingredients:
Whole milk: 2cups(450 g)
Type 00 flour: 3 ½cups(400 g)
Butter: ¼cup(50 g)
Sugar: 3tbsp(40 g)
Baking powder: 1tbsp(8 g)
Vanilla extract: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 3 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Low
Note cooking time refers to a single pancake

instructions:
It's Sunday morning and you want to prepare breakfast for the whole family but you have run out of eggs? No problem, there is a solution to everything! And what we propose is called: egg-free pancakes ! Soft and fragrant, they are prepared in no time because you will not need to beat the egg whites until stiff, unlike classic pancakes. They are excellent to be enjoyed with maple syrup, creams, jams, honey or fresh fruit! After tasting these egg-free pancakes , discover other variations such as protein pancakes, light pancakes, pancakes without butter and yeast-free pancakes, for a different breakfast every weekend!
Find out our additional pancake recipes:
You might also enjoy:
To make egg-free pancakes , first melt the butter in a saucepan and let it cool. Meanwhile, pour the flour into a bowl and add the sifted baking powder , sugar and milk .
Mix everything, and add salt , the melted butter and the vanilla extract . Stir again to obtain a smooth and homogeneous mixture.
Heat a non-stick pan over medium-low heat and grease it with butter . Pour a small ladle of batter into the center and spread it slightly with the back of a spoon to make a round shape .
When bubbles begin to appear on the surface, turn the pancake with a spatula and cook for a minute on the other side too . The total cooking time is about 3 minutes. As they are cooked, stack the egg-free pancakes on a plate and garnish with your favorite ingredients !
It is preferable to enjoy the egg-free pancakes as soon as they are ready, but if necessary you can keep them in the refrigerator for up to 2 days in an airtight container and heat them in a pan before serving.
The batter can be made the day before and stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap.
Any ideas to go with egg-free pancakes ? Blend fresh blueberries for a light and delicious fruit sauce!
The pancake batter has a fairly neutral flavor, but you can flavor it with honey or cinnamon for a sweeter flavor, or reduce the sugar to a teaspoon to enjoy them with salty ingredients.
Cow's milk can be replaced with the same dose of vegetable milk.

