name:
Easy pistachio ice cream
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1cup(200 g)
Heavy cream: 1cup(200 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Pistachios: 3.5oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the basefreezing time (overnight)

instructions:
Fiordilatte, coffee, pistachio, chocolate ... these are the most classic ice cream flavors, even the most loved ones together with strawberry and lemon. Do you want to prepare them at home but don't have an ice cream maker? Today we show you the tricks to make pistachio ice cream without ice cream maker , 100% homemade. By following the procedure you will get a creaminess and a taste that will have nothing to envy compared to artisanal ice cream parlors! Taking a cue from this you can create many other variations to make your favorite ice cream mix. For example, you could combine hazelnut or almond for a multi-flavored cup to be savored on hot summer days, or serve this ice cream together with our pistachio spread!
To prepare easy pistachio ice cream , start with the syrup: in a saucepan pour the sugar , water and turn on the flame over low heat .
Meanwhile, pour both the milk and the cream into a jug . As soon as the syrup has come to a boil , turn off the heat and let it cool. Pour the syrup into the milk and cream mixture
and blend everything with an immersion blender . Transfer in a silicone mold . Transfer to the freezer and let it rest overnight .
At this point, remove the cubes from the mold and transfer them to a food processor . Blend everything until you get a creamy mixture ,
add the pistachios and blend again until you get a smooth cream . Transfer to a container (preferably aluminum, ceramic or glass. Avoid plastic) and transfer to the freezer for at least 6 hours. When it is time to serve it, take it out of the freezer 5-10 minutes before and work it with a spoon, scraping gradually until you are able to mix to bring it back to the creamy state.
Keep easy pistachio ice cream in the freezer and consume within a few days.
You can add some chocolate flakes to the top, for a stracciatella-like effect ... but with pistachio!

