name:
Mackerel in a pan
ingredients:
Mackerel: 1.25lbs(550 g)- (cleaned fillets)
Cherry tomatoes: 0.5lb(250 g)
Tomato purée: 3tbsp(50 g)
Raisins: 2tbsp(30 g)
Pine nuts: 3tbsp(20 g)
Salted capers: 10(10 g)- (desalted)
Black olives: 8- (pitted)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1bunch
Oregano: to taste
Dry white wine: ⅓cup(70 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 3
Cost: Average

instructions:
Mackerel is a very common blue fish in our seas that stands out for its excellent nutritional qualities including a high content of good fats, especially Omega 3. If you are among those who do not like it because of its strong and decisive taste, get ready to change your mind with the recipe of mackerel in a pan ! The tomato sauce enriched with olives, capers, raisins and pine nuts is perfect for softening the flavor of fresh fish fillets, while at the same time enhancing their Mediterranean character. Serve the mackerel in a pan with a few slices of toast and you will see that this time it will be more than appreciated!
To make the mackerel in a pan , first chop the parsley and cut the cherry tomatoes in half . In a large pan with a drizzle of oil, put the parsley and the garlic clove, peeled and cut in half . Cover with the lid and let it dry for a minute over medium heat, then add the cherry tomatoes . Add salt and cook for 5 minutes over high heat, always with the lid on.
Pour the sauce and continue cooking for another 7 minutes, over high heat with the lid. Now add the raisins and the pine nuts .
Also add the coarsely chopped olives and the desalted capers . Stir and leave to flavor for a couple of minutes over high heat .
At this point, lower the heat and place the mackerel fillets , then pour the white wine . Gently mix to cover the fish with the sauce and flavor with oregano .
Cover with the lid and cook for 10 minutes over medium-low heat . Finally remove the lid and reduce the sauce for 5 minutes over high heat . Serve your mackerel in a pan immediately !
It is advisable to eat the mackerel in a pan as soon as it is ready. If necessary, you can keep it in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day.
If you wish, you can omit the capers or olives.
Raisins give the sauce a characteristic note of sweetness.

