name:
Baked fish skewers
ingredients:
Salmon fillets: 1lb(400 g)
Swordfish: 0.75lb(350 g)
Prawns: 1lb(500 g)
Orange juice: ¼cup(60 g)
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 g)
Chives: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Zucchini: 0.5lb(250 g)
Sesame seeds: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: High
Note + the marinating time

instructions:
A stick, well-marinated fresh fish and a handful of aromatic herbs: this is how our delicious baked fish skewers are composed: a genuine and delicious second course to be enjoyed bite after bite. For our winning trio we opted for meaty and tasty meats with salmon, swordfish and prawns. A marinating with citrus juice will make these sea-flavored skewers even more inviting and fragrant, finally a cooking in the oven, lighter and healthier than the recipe for skewers in a pan, will give you a truly appetizing dish.
You might also like:
To prepare the baked fish skewers , first clean the prawns by gently removing the head , the carapace and the legs, then make an incision above the back with a smooth blade knife, so as to extract the black thread of the intestine .
Cut the swordfish and salmon into cubes of about 1 inch (3 cm). Transfer the fish to a bowl and season with the chives .
Pour the orange juice and lemon juice, season with salt and pepper. Mix gently with your hands and let it rest for 15 minutes in the refrigerator. Meanwhile, take a zucchini and slice it , then cut them in half, thus obtaining a crescent shape .
After marinating, start assembling the skewers by skewering the various parts of fish and zucchini . Place the fish skewers on a baking tray lined with parchment paper, sprinkle with sesame seeds .
Drizzle with a drizzle of olive oil . Bake in a preheated oven at 340°F (170°C) in a convection oven (or at 350°F (180°C) if conventional oven) for about 15-20 minutes, setting the last 5 minutes grill mode. Remove from the oven and sprinkle with a lightly chopped fresh parsley . Serve the baked fish skewers hot .
It is advisable to consume the fish skewers immediately, or store them in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day, inside a food container, then heating them briefly in the oven if necessary.
Once the fish has been marinated, freezing is not recommended.
To make the zucchini more roasted, once sliced into slices, they can be grilled and then used to compose the skewers. You can replace salmon or swordfish with fresh tuna and cuttlefish, it will not be necessary to vary the cooking time. For a more crunchy texture, bread the skewers in breadcrumbs or panko bread before baking. For marinating, dry white wine can be used instead of citrus fruits. When cooked, you can flavor the fish skewers with soy sauce, for an exotic note.

