name:
Babaganoush Italian-style
ingredients:
Eggplant: 1lb(500 g)
Garlic: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 1cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Cherry tomatoes: 0.66lb(300 g)
Sugar: 1pinch
Oregano: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Radishes: 3
Shallot: 1
Salt: to taste
Oregano: to taste- dry
Sweet Paprika: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Are you looking for a captivating idea for your summer appetizers? Try Italian-style babaganoush ! A simple variation of the traditional Middle Eastern recipe, also known as eggplant caviar. Unlike the original babaganoush, however, this version does not include tahini (the typical sesame seed cream that also characterizes the preparation of hummus), but only baked eggplant pulp. To dilute the strong flavor of the garlic, we used confit cooking which makes it more delicate and digestible. Perfect to accompany with the classic pita, the Italian-style babaganoush is garnished with cherry tomatoes, radishes and ricotta for a result with an irresistible Mediterranean taste!
To make the Italian-style babaganoush , first remove the end of the eggplant , then divide it in half and cut the pulp with the tip of a knife, without affecting the peel .
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and grease it with a drizzle of oil , then lay the eggplant with the cut side facing down . Bake in a preheated static oven at 430°F (220°C) for about 15-20 minutes ; they must be soft and slightly golden. If after cooking the aubergines are particularly watery, leave them to rest in a colander for about 30 minutes so they will lose the vegetation water.
Meanwhile, prepare the garlic confit: crush the garlic head, peel the cloves and put them in a saucepan together with the oil ; it is important that the wedges are completely immersed in oil. Heat the oil over very low heat for 40 minutes, the garlic should be soft and browned .
Switch to the cherry tomatoes: wash and divide them in half , then arrange them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper with the cut side facing up , salt and add a pinch of sugar.
Sprinkle with oregano and season with plenty of oil . Bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F (200°C) for about 40 minutes; they must be wilted, well toasted and caramelized .
When the eggplants are warm, take the pulp with the help of a spoon and transfer it to a jug , then add a few tablespoons of flavored oil and a pinch of salt.
Also add a couple of cloves of confit garlic and blend with an immersion mixer to obtain a creamy and homogeneous consistency .
Pour the eggplant cream into a serving bowl and garnish with the baked cherry tomatoes , then add a few slices of radish and shallot, which you can soak in water and vinegar to dilute the flavor .
Finally season with salt flakes , oregano and a pinch of paprika. If you wish, you can also add a few flakes of ricotta. Your Italian-style babaganoush is ready to be served !
The Italian-style babaganoush can be stored in the refrigerator for about 3 days, without the decorations.
Garlic oil can be stored in the refrigerator.
You can use the confit garlic and garlic flavored oil separately to flavor your favorite dishes!

