name:
Gnocchi with Walnut Cream
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ⅓cups(400 g)
Water: 0.85cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Walnut kernels: 1cup(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(100 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.7oz(20 g)
Walnut kernels: ⅛cup(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus resting time (5 minutes)

instructions:
To prepare the gnocchi with walnut cream, start with the fresh pasta. Mix the flour with a pinch of salt in a bowl . Slowly pour the water over the flour , stirring first with a wooden spoon, then with your hands .
Transfer the dough to a work surface and knead it until you get a smooth and homogeneous consistency ; if it's too sticky, add a little flour. Cover it with a bowl and let it rest for 5 minutes.
At this point, take the dough again and divide it into pieces . Form cylinders about 0.4-0.8 inches in diameter .
Then cut them further into pieces of 0.8 inches . You can roll them with a fork, or with a gnocchi board to get the classic gnocchi shape .
Bring a pot of salted water to a boil . In the meantime, prepare the walnut pesto. Toast the walnuts in a pan over low heat for a few minutes and let them cool. Gather them in a tall, narrow container along with the garlic .
Add the grated Parmesan , salt , pepper, and oil .
Add a ladle of hot water and blend everything with an immersion blender until you get a smooth and homogeneous cream . As soon as the water boils, cook the gnocchi .
They will be ready when they surface, after about 2-3 minutes . Drain them and toss them directly into a pan where you have already poured the walnut cream . Toss everything well , adding more cooking water if necessary.
Plate the gnocchi , finishing them with a sprinkle of Parmesan and some crumbled walnuts . Serve them hot .
We recommend eating the gnocchi right after dressing them; alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator for one day. You can prepare the walnut cream in advance and store it in the refrigerator for 1 day, well sealed in a container. You can freeze the raw gnocchi by placing them well spaced on a tray and letting them harden in the freezer for a couple of hours, after which you can transfer them to practical freezer bags, so they won't stick together. You can then cook them directly from frozen.
For a more velvety texture, blend the walnut cream in short, repeated pulses: this will prevent the mixture from heating too much and you'll obtain a more homogeneous sauce.

