name:
Fish-stuffed pepper rolls
ingredients:
Bell peppers: 3
Hake fillets: 0.5lb(200 g)- (cleaned and ready to use)
Potatoes: 0.66lb(300 g)
Salted capers: 2tbsp(30 g)
Breadcrumbs: 3tbsp
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Stuffed pepper rolls is a really tasty appetizer, but they are also excellent to serve as a second course. Today we show you a very special version: fish-stuffed pepper rolls . Discoer a mashed potatoes and hake filling, flavored with capers and parsley. To obtain soft peppers, you will need bake the peppers first and then peel them, this way it will be very easy to stuff and roll them. To get a colorful and more appetizing dish, we recommend using mixed peppers and waiting until they turn golden brown before taking them out of the oven. Fish-stuffed pepper rolls is a really tasty dish, perfect for summer!
To prepare fish-stuffed pepper rolls , first wash the peppers and arrange them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper . Bake in a preheated conventional oven at 355°F (180°C) for about 40 minutes, turning the peppers halfway through cooking. Meanwhile, boil the potatoes. Place them in cold water and leave them for about 30 minutes from when the water starts boiling. Test with the tines of a fork and when they are soft, drain them .
At this point the peppers will also be cooked, take them out of the oven and let them cool. Meanwhile, mash the potatoes in a bowl , using a potato masher. There will be no need to peel them, as the skin will remain inside the potato masher. Now take the hake fillets and make sure they are boneless and skinless .
Chop the fish with a knife and transfer it to the bowl with the potatoes. Desalt the capers and chop them together with parsley, then add them together with the rest of the ingredients for the filling .
Add a pinch of salt and pepper. Mix until you get a homogeneous mixture . Take the peppers back and peel them , then open them and remove the stalk and the internal seeds .
Now get some wide flaps, don't worry if they are not all the same size. Consider that you will need to get 16 rolls . Fill them with the potato and fish mixture and roll them up .
Gradually transfer them to a lightly greased pan , sprinkle with a little breadcrumbs and a drizzle of oil. Bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F (200°C) for 15 minutes, then activate the grill and finish cooking for another 5 minutes, until they are golden brown. Remove from the oven and serve your pepper rolls .
Fish-stuffed epper rolls can be kept in the fridge for a couple of days.
For the recipe you can also use other types of fresh fish fillets such as cod, sea bream, mackerel, sea bass. The procedure remains unchanged.
If you prefer, you can add pitted black olives, replacing them with part of the capers, or entirely.


