name:
Avocado hummus
ingredients:
Avocado: 2
Precooked chickpeas: 0.5lb(240 g)
Tahini: 1tbsp(20 g)
Lemon juice: ¼cup(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¼cup(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Sesame seeds: to taste
Black sesame seeds: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
What happens when the intense flavor of chickpea hummus meets the delicate taste of avocado? The result is avocado hummus : a tasty and light cream, perfect for adding an extra touch to sandwiches and wraps but also for preparing delicious finger food to serve for your aperitifs. What if that's not enough? Try accompanying the avocado hummus with raw vegetables or appetizing meatballs or felafel, for a combination of flavors that unite the Middle East and Latin America. Avocado hummus , flavored with the indispensable sesame-based sauce, tahini, is prepared in a few steps and with very few ingredients: get ready to see it disappear soon, your guests won't be able to resist it!
Try also another tasty and colorful variations: Beetroot hummus
If you love the taste of avocado, check out these recipes too:
To prepare the avocado hummus, start with the avocado: cut it vertically , then divide it in half and finally remove the stone ( 3).
Peel the avocado and finally cut it into cubes : you will have to obtain about 1 lb (450 g) of avocado pulp. Squeeze a lemon with a juicer
and filter the juice with a colander, collecting it in a small bowl . Take the mixer and pour in the drained the precooked chickpeas and diced avocado .
Add the peeled garlic , the tahini and the filtered lemon juice . Salt and pepper.
Finally, pour the oil and turn the mixer on at medium speed, blending until you get a smooth cream without lumps . Transfer the avocado hummus to a serving bowl, adding a pinch of black and white sesame seeds . Your avocado hummus is ready to be enjoyed!
Avocado hummus can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, covered with plastic wrap or in a tightly closed container. Freezing is not recommended.
For an even more intense taste you can also add the grated lemon zest or, again, replace the lime with the lemon. If you want an even more fragrant avocado hummus you can also add some mint leaves. Dried chickpeas can also be used instead of precooked ones, soaking 120 grams of dried chickpeas for about 12 hours. Once this time has elapsed, cook them for about an hour or until they are tender but not overcooked, then proceed as per the recipe.Tahina is a cream based on sesame seeds, if you can't find it you can make it at home following the recipe you find in the traditional Hummus card.

