name:
Gluten-free coconut cookies
ingredients:
Shredded coconut: ½cup(75 g)
Sugar: ⅓cup(75 g)
Egg whites: ⅓cup(80 g)- (from 2-3 medium eggs)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 35 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make gluten-free coconut cookies you only need three ingredients, they are gluten-free and lactose-free: coconut flakes, egg whites and sugar. They are really quick and easy to prepare. They are similar to coconut cakes, but are made with coconut flakes instead of coconut flour and there is no need for a pastry bag. So if you have only little time, this is the recipe for you! The coconut flakes give these cookies a really intense coconutty taste, a rustic texture, with a pleasant crust on the outside. Naturally gluten-free and lactose-free , they will be the perfect snack to share with everyone! And if you want to add a delicious touch, try sprinkling them with melted dark chocolate!
To prepare the gluten-free coconut cookies , pour the coconut flakes in a bowl and add granulated sugar , mix with a spoon and add the egg whites .
Mix everything thoroughly and start kneading with your hands until the mixture becomes uniform . Then take a small amount of dough, about 5-6 grams, and pinch it with your hands to create a cone .
Gradually transfer the tufts on a dripping pan, lined with parchment paper, spacing them well - you will get about 35. Bake in a preheated convection oven at 370°F (190°C) for about 10 minutes, until they turn golden brown on the surface. Remove from the oven your gluten-free coconut cookies and let them cool before moving them, as when hot they will be soft and could break. Once cold serve them and enjoy .
Gluten-free coconut cookies can be stored in a container at room temperature for 4-5 days.
To have a more regular shape you can use the dough to fill small half-sphere molds.
It is recommended not to use coconut flour, because it is coconut flakes that gives a more rustic and raw result.
With the excess yolks you can make custard.

