name:
Vegetarian rice salad
ingredients:
Rice: 0.66lb(300 g)- (for salads)
Cherry tomatoes: 0.5lb(250 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 0.5lb(200 g)
Corn: 4oz(120 g)
Basil: to taste
Basil: 3.5oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(100 g)
Pine nuts: ½cup(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3tbsp(25 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 3tbsp(25 g)
Garlic: 1clove- (optional)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Rice salad is one of the most popular summer dishes, both for a lunch at the beach or at the office: there are those who prefer it with vegetables and those with tuna, those who dress it with mayonnaise and those without ...the vegetarian rice salad is going to be enjoyed by everyone, without sacrificing flavor and lightness! Cherry tomatoes, corn and mozzarella meet the scent of basil pesto which gives color and creaminess to the dish. A mix of Mediterranean ingredients that will whet the appetite of young and old!
Also check out these tasty recipes:
To make the vegetarian rice salad , first cook the rice al dente in plenty of boiling salted water. Rinse under running water to stop cooking , then let it drain for at least 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. In the meantime, dedicate yourself to the pesto: gently rinse the basil leaves and pat them with absorbent paper , then put them in a mixer with the oil, cheeses, pine nuts and, if desired, garlic .
Blend intermittently until you get a creamy consistency , then transfer the pesto into a jar and place it in the refrigerator until ready for use. Also prepare the other ingredients: cut the mozzarella into cubes and let it drain in a colander so that it loses the excess liquid .
Wash the cherry tomatoes and divide them into 4 parts . Now transfer the rice to a bowl, add the pesto and mix well .
Add the cherry tomatoes, mozzarella and drained corn . Mix everything well , then season with salt and season with a few basil leaves. Your vegetarian rice salad is ready to serve !
The vegetarian rice salad can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days, in an airtight container. The pesto can be kept in the glass jar, covered with oil, for about 4 days.
If you prefer, you can use brown rice.
Customize the ingredients to your liking by replacing for example the fiordilatte mozzarella with buffalo mozzarella, or by adding black olives!
To prepare the pesto choose undamaged basil leaves, of a nice green color.

