name:
Pasta with zucchini and salmon
ingredients:
Rigatoni: 0.75lb(320 g)
Salmon fillets: 0.5lb(200 g)
Zucchini: 2
Fresh scallion: 2
Dry white wine: ⅓cup(80 g)
Lemon juice: 1
Mint: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Almonds: ⅓cup(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Today we mix pasta with salmon and pasta with zucchini for a first course with guaranteed success! But there are many ways to make pasta with zucchini and salmon : in this case we chose a dressing without cream, with fresh salmon instead of smoked one and the scented note of lemon and mint. The zucchini strips will cook in a few minutes and blend perfectly with any type of pasta, from rigatoni to tagliolini . Last but not least, the toasted almonds that will give a crunchy touch to every forkful!
To make pasta with zucchini and salmon , first prepare all the ingredients: remove the skin from the salmon fillet and remove any bones with tweezers, then cut it into cubes . Trim the zucchini and cut them into julienne strips using a mandoline or a mixer .
Clean the scallions and slice them thinly . Chop the mint and almonds, and ground them with a mixer . Finally, put a pot of boiling water on the heat to cook the pasta.
Heat a little oil in a pan and fry the scallions , then add the zucchini and a pinch of salt. Cook over medium heat for about 5 minutes, and flavor with fresh mint .
Add the salmon and brown it quickly, then add white wine . Meanwhile, cook the pasta in boiling salted water .
When the pasta is al dente, drain it in the pan with the sauce, taking care to keep the cooking water . Sauté everything over high heat, add some pepper and deglaze with the filtered lemon juice .
If needed, add a ladle of cooking water . Turn off the heat and complete with the chopped almonds . Your pasta with zucchini and salmon is ready to be enjoyed !
It is advisable to immediately eat the pasta with zucchini and salmon.
If you prefer, you can replace mint with thyme or parsley.

