name:
Oat tarts with yogurt and fruit
ingredients:
Oats: 1 ¼cup(110 g)
Acacia honey: 3tbsp(60 g)
Dates: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cinnamon powder: to taste
Vegetable oil: to taste
Greek yogurt: ⅔cup(180 g)
Berries: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
What is it that gives us the energy to get out of bed? Definitely a good breakfast! But when you want to keep healthy, you need to find tricks to prepare a light but appetizing dish! A few simple ingredients will be enough to prepare these oat tarts with yogurt and fruit and decorated with lots of good berries and a few mint leaves! Colorful, fragrant and tasty, everyone will love them ... young and old will love these entirely edible cups! Surprise your family with this fresh, healthy, nutritious and above all delicious breakfast! Serve the baskets together with a good smoothie to recharge your batteries!
To make oat tarts with yogurt and fruit , make sure the dates are already pitted. Pour them into a mixer and blend them until you get a cream . Add 1 teaspoon of cinnamon ,
add a pinch of salt and honey . Then mix everything with a spatula
and add the oat flakes . Mix everything until you get a homogeneous mixture . Then equip yourself with a mini muffin pan and using a brush soaked in oil, grease each section .
Transfer a spoonful of the oat mixture inside the molds and using the back of a small spoon, form baskets creating a cavity in the center . Bake in a preheated conventional oven at 340°F (170°C) for 15 minutes. Take the baskets out of the oven and let them cool
before removing them from the mold . Transfer them to a tray and stuff them with Greek yogurt . If you like the yogurt creamier, make sure you mix it before placing it in the oat cup.
Decorate with mixed berries and a few mint leaves (16-17). Transfer to the refrigerator until ready to serve your oat tarts with yogurt and fruit .
You can store empty oat cups for 3 days. Once stuffed you can keep them for 1 day in the refrigerator.
You can use a fruit yogurt for the filling; if you don't have Greek yogurt you can also use the classic one.
To flavor the base, choose a different honey, with a stronger flavor such as that of lime or orange.

