name:
Carrot fries
ingredients:
Carrots: 1lb(500 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1cup(100 g)
Paprika: 2tbsp
Rosemary: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Egg yolks: 2
Water: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Cranberry jam: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Surely it will have happened to you at least once that you have raised the carrots by the tuft and thought: "what do I prepare today with these?" Today we prepare carrot fries ! We present them to you in two ways: with a light and spicy breading without eggs or with the addition of egg yolk and flour for a super crunch effect! Whatever you decide to do, the result will be delicious! Golden, yellow and even purple, carrots lend themselves to the most varied preparations: velvety, sweet and sour side dishes, delicious cakes and even to prepare a spectacular and colorful cake! But to all these proposals we could not but add an even more delicious version, which will really appeal to everyone. Even french fries lovers will not miss or say no to these delicious carrot fries .
To prepare the carrot fries , start with the breading. Then chop the rosemary and pour it into a bowl together with the grated cheese (2-3).
Peel the thyme , add the paprika and mix everything well .
Now let's take care of the carrots. After having peeled them , trim them and cut them in half or in four parts, depending on the size . Finally cut into sticks of about 1/2 inch (1 cm) .
If you prefer to proceed with the simpler breading without eggs, you can dip the carrots into the breading and make it adhere well by massaging the carrot sticks in the bowl . Fry the breaded carrots in boiling oil at 350°F (180°C) (measure the the oil temperature with a kitchen thermometer) . As soon as they turn golden brown drain them and place them on absorbent paper .
Garnish with the breading left over , a pinch of salt and continue cooking the rest of the sticks. Serve your carrot fires with cranberry jam and enjoy .
To proceed with a crunchier breading, flavor with grated cheese with chopped paprika, thyme and rosemary. After cutting the carrots into sticks, dry them well . Pour the egg yolks in a small bowl, add a little cold water and beat .
Dip the carrot sticks in the flour first , then in the egg yolks , and finally in the cheese breading .
Fry the carrots in boiling oil at 350°F (180°C) for 1 minute . When they turn golden brown, drain them and enjoy your carrot fries with cranberry jam .
It is be advisable to eat the carrot fries immediately to prevent the crunchiness from being lost. Therefore, any form of storage is not recommended.
To make yourcarrot fries even tastier, you can make variations on the breading. Use different aromatic herbs such as oregano for a Mediterranean touch. Or a mix of cheeses such as parmesan and pecorino, for a stronger flavor.
About the spices! You can use smoked paprika, a pinch of the spicy one, or ginger for a touch of freshness! Breadcrumbs and panko could be excellent breading. Make sure the breading adheres well, if needed moisten the carrots slightly with wet hands!

