name:
Gelato bites
ingredients:
Cream gelato: 1lb(500 g)
Dark chocolate: 1 ½cup(250 g)- (to melt for the coating)
Corn flakes: ¼cup(40 g)
Ground pistachio: 3tbsp(20 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: 3tbsp(20 g)
Shredded coconut: 3tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + about 5-6 hours in the freezer

instructions:
Small fresh and delicious gems, perfect for a mini summer snack: gelato bites . Dark chocolate outside and your favorite ice cream flavor inside (we opted for fior di latte!). A bite: a cool and sweet discovery that will make you finish the ice cream tub you just bought in no time! Perfect bon bons to enjoy an afternoon on the terrace or as a dessert to end an outdoor summer dinner. Coat your gelato bites with dark chocolate enriched with corn flakes, or simply decorate with pistachio, hazelnut or coconut flakes. However you decide to serve them, the gelato bites will melt even the coldest hearts!
To prepare the gelato bites , start by lining a pan with parchment paper, then place a rectangular cake ring measuring 7x10 inches (17.5x25 cm) and start pouring the ice cream ; spread it out with a spatula to cover the entire surface and create a thickness of about 0.5 inch (1 cm) . Put the ice cream to harden in the freezer for at least 2 hours. Then take the ice cream out, and use a knife around the edges to detach the ice cream ,
this way you will be able to remove the mold easily . Make cubes of about 0.5 inch (1 cm), creating a grid with the blade of the knife (5-6). Place it back in the freezer for at least 3 hours.
After this time, crumble the corn flakes and chop the dark chocolate . Melt the chocolate in a bain-marie (be careful that the water in the bain-marie does not mix with the melting chocolate) or in the microwave . Once melted, let it cool, stirring occasionally. In the meantime, place a tray lined with parchment paper in the freezer.
Pour the corn flakes in the melted chocolate and mix . After 3 hours in the freezer, take the ice cream cubes out and dip them in the melted chocolate one at a time .
Make sure you dip the ice cream cubes entirely. Remove the excess chocolate and place the bites on the tray cooled and lined with parchment paper, and decorated with chopped hazelnuts, pistachios or coconut flakes . Place your gelato bites back in the freezer and take them out when ready to enjoy them !
Gelato bites can be stored in the freezer for a couple of weeks.
Enrich the dark chocolate with what you prefer instead of corn flakes: chopped hazelnuts or flaked almonds, crumbled pistachios or cashews! You can indulge and get creative according to your taste.

