name:
Hummus
ingredients:
Precooked chickpeas: 1lb(500 g)
Lemon juice: ⅓cup(90 g)
Tahini: ¼cup(70 g)
Garlic: 1clove- (optional)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¼cup(50 g)
Water: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Sweet Paprika: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sesame seeds: 3.5oz(100 g)
Sesame oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Water: to taste- warm

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare hummus , first drain and rinse the precooked chickpeas, then transfer them to a mixer. Pour in lemon juice , tahini and oil .
Also add salt and, if you wish, a clove of crushed garlic and deprived of the core. Operate the mixer and blend by adjusting the speed and duration according to the desired result, which can be smoother or more rustic. Add 2-3 tablespoons of water as needed to reach the desired consistency : instead of water you can use a little more lemon juice, to accentuate the acidic note, or oil or tahini, for a richer flavor. We opted for a cream with a buttery and light texture .
Transfer the hummus to a bowl and garnish with paprika , pepper , a drizzle of oil and chopped parsley to taste. Your hummus is ready to be enjoyed!
To prepare homemade tahini , first toast the sesame seeds in a non-stick pan, stirring often . Transfer the toasted seeds in a mortar, add a part of the oil and salt and start pounding with circular movements.
Gradually pour in the rest of the oil and water as needed continuing to pound until you reach a rather smooth and homogeneoustexture . Your tahini is ready to be used !
Hummus can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days, closed in an airtight jar and covered with a layer of oil.
Freezing is not recommended.
For the preparation of both hummus and tahini , you can choose whether to use the blender or the mortar: in the second case you will get a less smooth texture but the nutritional principles are better preserved.
If you use the mortar to make the tahini, you can continue with the recipe, gradually mixing the precooked chickpeas and the rest of the ingredients with the pestle.
If you wish, you can customize the basic hummus recipe by adding other ingredients to taste: a pinch of curry or turmeric for example, which will give the cream a more intense color, or mint, coriander, ginger powder, cumin or chili!
You can also enrich the basic recipe with other ingredients to create delicious variations: discover the recipe for avocado hummus, pepper hummus or beet hummus for example! Or substitute the chickpeas to make a tasty lentil hummus.
You can use the leftover tahini to make a delicious Lebanese turmeric dessert, the sfouf! Or you can make babaganoush, a typical eggplant cream of Middle Eastern origin. Try also the Italian version of babaganoush!

