name:
Zucchini stuffed with ricotta
ingredients:
Zucchini: 1lb(520 g)- (about 6)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: ½cup(50 g)- grated
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: ¼cup(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Stuffed zucchini are a very versatile homemade second course with a thousand variations, you can in fact enjoy them with the most inviting fillings: for example with sautéed seasonal vegetables, with tantalizing mixes of meat, with rice or with cheese, like our recipe of zucchini stuffed with ricotta , a simple and appetizing vegetarian version that will enrich your spring menus. Come and discover a new way to taste grandma's traditional stuffed zucchini.
To prepare the zucchini stuffed with ricotta cut a layer lengthwise so as to reveal the pulp keeping the stalk, dig the inside and chop both the pulp and the waste of the peel with a knife .
Salt the inside of the zucchini and set them aside. In a pan, heat the oil with a garlic clove , add the zucchini pulp ,
salt, pepper and brown them for 10-15 minutes over high heat . Let them cool, then pour them into a bowl .
Add the well-drained ricotta , the grated Pecorino and the breadcrumbs .
Season with thyme , a pinch of salt and mix until the mixture is homogeneous . Take the zucchini and dru the inside in case they have released some water. Fill them with the ricotta mixture , pressing them lightly to obtain a rounded surface.
Sprinkle with more Pecorino , thyme , a drizzle of oil, and cook in a preheated conventional oven at 390°F (200°C) for 40 minutes, then grill them for 2 minutes, just enough time to brown them. Your zucchini stuffed with ricotta are ready to be served .
Keep the zucchini stuffed with ricotta in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to two days. Freezing is not recommended.
Thyme can be replaced by mint which will give a fresh note. For a more delicate flavor, replace the Pecorino with Parmesan. If you do not have the appropriate tool to dig out the pulp, you can cut the pulp with a knife and extract it with a teaspoon. Try to select zucchini of the same size to ensure an even cooking.

