name:
Feta and spinach pasta bake
ingredients:
Mezze Maniche Rigate pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Spinach: 0.5lb(200 g)
Feta cheese: 2cups(200 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ⅔cup(150 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
How do you prefer baked pasta? Today we amaze you with a different vegetarian recipe: feta and spinach pasta bake ! A tasty combination that is the protagonist of a great classic of Greek cuisine, the spanakopita, that we wanted to propose in a first course version. In addition to the famous Greek cheese, characterized by a strong and slightly acidic flavor, we also used ricotta which will make the sauce even more creamy. Bring feta and spinach pasta bake to the table and let yourself be teased by its crunchy golden crust first and then by its creaminess!
Also try feta and cherry tomatoes pasta bake, another appetizing variation!
To make feta and spinach pasta bake , first wash the spinach and remove the final part of the stem . Pour the spinach into a pan with a drizzle of oil and a crushed clove of garlic . Cover with the lid and cook for 10 minutes. Meanwhile, put a pot of water on the stove to cook the pasta.
When the spinach has wilted, remove the garlic from the pan and set aside . Once the water has come to a boil, add salt and cook the pasta al dente . Meanwhile, crumble the feta cheese with your hands .
Drain the pasta in a bowl, add the spinach , feta cheese and 1/4 cup (30 g) of grated Parmesan cheese .
Mix and add the ricotta and a ladle of pasta cooking water. Mix everything well . Grease a baking dish with oil and pour the seasoned pasta in it .
Distribute it evenly with a spoon and sprinkle with the remaining grated Parmesan cheese . Finish with a drizzle of oil . Bake in a preheated convection oven at 355°F (180°C) for 30 minutes until the surface turns golden brown. Remove from the oven and enjoy your feta and spinach pasta bake .
Feta and spinach pasta bake can be stored in the refrigerator for a day, in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
For an even richer version you can add small pieces of sausage browned in a pan!

