name:
Potato and salmon salad
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.33lbs(600 g)
Smoked Salmon: 0.5lb(200 g)
Avocado: 0.66lb(300 g)
Celery: 5oz(150 g)
Fresh scallion: 1.75oz(50 g)
Lemon juice: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the potatoes cooling time

instructions:
Summer is coming and with it the desire for unique dishes, fresh and lighter dishes ... we offer you potato and salmon salad , a recipe that makes you hungry even on the hottest days! Boiled potatoes and smoked salmon combine with celery, spring onions and avocado in a tasty and nutritious single dish. A tasty alternative to the classic octopus and potato salad, easy to prepare and also suitable for a take-away lunch, perhaps on the beach or in the office! You can also customize the potato and salmon salad to your liking ... what ingredients would you add?
To make the potato and salmon salad , first boil the potatoes starting from cold water for about 35-40 minutes from the start of the boil; the cooking time varies depending on the size, you will need to be able to easily pierce them with a fork . Meanwhile, prepare the other ingredients: peel the spring onions and cut them into slices , then cut the celery into cubes .
Cut the smoked salmon into strips . When the potatoes are cooked, drain and let them cool, then peel them and cut them into cubes . Transfer the potatoes to a large bowl .
Add the scallion , celery and smoked salmon .
Cut the avocado in half and cut the pulp in a checkerboard pattern , then push the pulp out to detach it from the peel, and drop it directly into the bowl . Season with lemon juice , salt and pepper.
Add a drizzle of oil and mix gently . Flavor with fresh oregano to taste and serve your potato and salmon salad !
Eat the potato and salmon salad immediately. If necessary, you can keep it in the refrigerator for a day, without the avocado.
You can enrich the potato and salmon salad with other aromatic herbs such as parsley, dill or chives!

