name:
Cherry crumble
ingredients:
Cherries: 1lb(500 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)-
Lemon peel: 1-
Type 00 flour: 1cup(100 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Brown sugar: 4tbsp(60 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp(2 g)-
Butter: 4tbsp(50 g)- room temperature

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes rest for the cherries

instructions:
Crumble is a delicious and easy-to-make preparation. Both sweet and savory versions of this delicacy are ubiquitous in England and Ireland and here we present you with a recipe for cherry crumble , a summer dessert that exalts all the flavor of this seasonal fruit. Typically crumble is made with a creamy, cooked fruit base, covered with a crunchy and "crumbly" layer. Once you discover this preparation there'll be no going back: it's so versatile that you'll find it difficult not to succumb to the temptation of trying out savory versions, like vegetable crumble, or the more famous and traditional apple crumble. We are certain you'll be smitten with cherry crumble after the first bite: a crumbly and rich pastry encases the soft and juicy cherries in all its sweet flavor. Are you ready to enjoy this sweet treat?
Try these recipes too:
To prepare cherry crumble , start with the filling. Rinse the cherries under running water, dry them with a cloth and pit them using a pitter . Place them in a bowl, add the sugar and the grated peel of a lemon . Be sure to use the yellow part of the skin only, without grating the more bitter tasting white part.
Amalgamate with a spatula to even out the ingredients and leave to rest for at least 30 minutes at room temperature ; turn over occasionally with a spoon. In the meantime, prepare the dough for the crumble. Cut the vanilla bean open lengthwise and remove the seeds using a smooth bladed knife . Leave the vanilla seeds to one side for later.
Now place the flour , the brown sugar and the cinnamon powder in a large bowl,
along with the vanilla seeds ; lastly, add the softened butter at room temperature . Start kneading the ingredients together rapidly with your finger tips, to obtain a granular and crumbly consistency ; try to make sure the butter comes into contact with the dry ingredients.
The result should be a dough that is crumbly but not sandy in consistency (true to the name of this dessert). Leave the crumble to one side . Take 4 molds, 3.2 inches in diameter and 2 inches tall, and fill each one with a few spoons of cherries and smooth the fruit base out .
Cover each mold with the previously prepared crumble mixture right to the top , Arrange the molds on a baking tray and bake in a static oven preheated to 356?F for 30 minutes . The surface of the crumble should turn golden and crumbly when ready. Remove from the oven while still hot . Serve you cherry crumble hot, straight from the mold.
Cherry crumble can be stored for up to 4 days out of the refrigerator and covered with plastic wrap, or under a glass cake cloche. Heat it up before serving. You can also freeze it, as long as you have used nothing but fresh and no defrosted ingredients.
Cinnamon adds a more intense flavor to the cherry crumble, but if you're not a fan, you can simply leave it out, the result will still be delicious! The important thing is that you serve the crumble when still hot and better still ,with some vanilla ice cream, or cream, for those of you with an even sweeter tooth. Some prefer to prepare crumble using a mixer, with cold butter straight from the refrigerator (because mixer blades heat all the ingredients up); a few seconds of blending is all it takes to obtain a very crumbly mixture.

