name:
Cold lemon cake
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 6.5oz(180 g)
Butter: 0.44cup(100 g)
Natural plain yogurt: 2cups(500 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Powdered sugar: 1.3cups(150 g)
Lemons: 1- untreated
Isinglass: 0.5oz(12 g)
White chocolate: ⅔cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time for the base and the cake in the fridge

instructions:
Are you craving something fresh, a delicious snack to share? Cold lemon cake is a sweet answer to this desire, as it combines citrus freshness with the voluptuousness of a soft yogurt cream. The greatest of pleasure just a spoonful away, complete with a crumbled white chocolate decoration to further exalt the deliciousness of this cold cake that will accompany you all summer long! Also perfect for a buffet, birthdays, or simply after a meal, cold lemon cake will win you over as soon as you taste it.
To prepare cold lemon cake , start with the base: melt the butter on a very low flame and leave to cool until lukewarm. Place the dry biscuits in a mixer and blend into a powder. Place them in a bowl, add the melted butter and leave to cool. Stir with a spoon .
Place the mixture in a 8" diameter hinged baking pan lined with parchment paper. Use the back of a spoon to evenly coat the pan with the biscuit mix . Leave to harden in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. In the meantime, prepare the cream: place some cold water in a low and wide baking pan and soak the gelatine sheets for around 10 minutes. Place the yogurt in a bowl, grate the zest of an untreated lemon
then juice it . Now add the juice to the bowl with all the other ingredients and stir .
When ready , add the icing sugar to the cream , stir thoroughly so that it fully dissolves .
Heat 0.6 cups of cream taken from the total amount and heat to just before the boil. Take the gelatine and gently wring it out , add to the heated cream and stir until fully dissolved. Leave to cool slightly before pouring into a bowl .
Stir to thoroughly incorporate both mixtures . Then add the remaining cup of fresh liquid cream and beat with an electric whisk . Now add also the whipped cream to the yogurt mix .
Stir delicately with a silicone spatula from the bottom up, so that the cream does not lose its frothy consistency . Pour the cream onto the cold cake base, which will have firmed up by now ; smooth with a spatula or the back of a spoon and place it back in the refrigerator to harden. It is best to wait a whole day or at least one night for the cake to solidify completely.
To decorate the cold lemon cake, finely chop the white chocolate , remove from the hinged baking pan and discard the parchment paper; now sprinkle the white chocolate over the entire surface of the cake . Your cold lemon cake is ready to be enjoyed !
You can store cold lemon cake in the refrigerator for 3-4 days. You can freeze the cake too, better if portioned.
For a different kind of decoration, arrange some lemon slices along the inner edge of the pan before adding the cream. Once the cold lemon cake firms up, the final effect will be delicious!

