name:
Peach strudel
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ⅓cup(150 g)
Eggs: 1(55 g)- medium
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)- room temperature
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Peach: 2.25lbs(1 kg)
Pecans: ¾cup(70 g)
Breadcrumbs: ¾cup(100 g)
Brown sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Butter: 1stick(50 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Butter: to taste(40 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
Together we're going to prepare peach strudel , an alternative to classic apple strudel, perfect for the hottest time of the year! The base dough remains the same and in accordance with tradition, must be delicately rolled out as thinly as possible, until almost transparent; this is the only way of making sure the dough will cook through to the innermost layer. For the filling we looked to seasonal fruits, opting for one of the sweetest ones. When we tried making it with peaches we were pleasantly surprised! We have enriched the strudel with pecan nuts and added breadcrumbs to absorb all the peach juice released during baking, to achieve the right degree of moistness. With fragrant lemon and vanilla, the peach strudel will liven up your outdoor evenings: remember to serve it with a scoop of vanilla ice cream for a truly superlative result!
Place the flour, water , egg and oil in a bowl .
Add the salt and mix the ingredients together with a fork . Now knead the mixture with your hands .
Once homogeneous, place it on a worktop and knead to obtain a soft, smooth and elastic dough . Shape it into a ball , cover with plastic wrap or a bowl, and leave to rest at room temperature for 30 minutes. In the meantime, prepare the filling: melt the butter and leave to one side, then peel the peaches .
Cut away the pulp and remove the pit . Cut the peach pulp into pieces that are around 1.2 inches in size and place them in a large bowl. Add the brown sugar to the peaches .
Add the breadcrumbs too , and the melted butter, once cooled . Stir thoroughly .
Add the vanilla , the grated zest of a lemon and the pecan nuts .
Stir thoroughly and leave to one side. Melt the butter for brushing onto the strudel. Place a cloth on the worktop and sprinkle with a little flour. Place the strudel dough on the cloth and add a little more flour . Now use a rolling pin to roll out the dough until around 0.2" thick .
Very delicately continue to spread the dough by hand, until you form a very thin, almost transparent rectangle .?Brush on some of the melted butter and place the peach filling onto the left side of the rectangle , leaving a free space.
Now lift the dough to the left of the filling and fold it: try to cover as much as possible . Now fold the side edges and pinch the dough together with your fingers . Now roll the strudel, using the cloth .
Once you have rolled up the entire strudel , reopen the cloth, spread the last layer of dough over it and thoroughly seal both ends .
Using the cloth, place the strudel on a tray lined with parchment paper . Delicately pull out the cloth and brush the remaining butter onto the entire surface .
Bake in a conventional oven preheated to 400 °F (2 00 °C) for 35 minutes. Remove from the oven and leave to cool. Sprinkle with the icing sugar and serve the peach strudel !
You can store the peach strudel for a couple of days in the refrigerator.
Instead of pecan nuts you can use the same amount of almonds, hazelnuts or walnuts!

