name:
Stuffed frittata
ingredients:
Eggs: 8
Emmentaler cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Cooked ham: 4oz(120 g)- (slices)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: ½cup(50 g)- grated
Chives: 10sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Stuffed frittata is a delicious second course to make the eggs taste more deliciously, even for children. It is a preparation that requires little time, but allows you to create a dish full of flavors, also ideal as a snack to take to a picnic out of town! By dividing the egg mixture in half, you will get two soft discs including a stringy heart of Emmentaler and delicious slices of cooked ham. But you can free your imagination for the filling and season the stuffed frittata as you prefer, perhaps varying with a filling of cheese and sautéed seasonal vegetables!
To prepare the stuffed frittata , start by coarsely chopping the sprigs of chives and slice the Emmentaler cheese . Break the eggs and collect them in a large bowl ,
beat them with a fork and add the grated Grana Padano cheese , mix and add the sprigs of chives, salt and pepper to taste.
Mix all the ingredients and divide the batter in two bowls . In a 9 inch (24 cm) pan, pour a drizzle of oil and heat it up well. Pour the contents of one of the two bowls ,
cover with a lid and cook over high heat for 2-3 minutes. Then flip the frittata with the help of the lid or a plate and slide it back into the pan . Let it cook on the other side for another 2 minutes without the lid. Transfer the ready frittata on a plate and keep it aside for a moment.
Grease another 9 inch (24 cm) diameter pan with a drizzle of oil , heat and repeat the same operations for the remaining eggs: pour the contents of the bowl into the pan and cook for about 2 minutes with the cover; then turn it upside down with the help of the lid; cook the frittata on the other too .
Then distribute the slices of cheese on the surface of the frittata and those of ham . Place the frittata you prepared earlier with the part where the sprigs of chives are visible facing upwards .
Cover with the lid and cook for another 1-2 minutes , then gently unmold the frittata and place it on a tray or a serving dish. You can slice the stuffed frittata and serve it in wedges!
Store the frittata in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container for 1 day.
You can freeze it if you have used fresh ingredients, perhaps already portioned.
Indulge your imagination with the frittata filling: how about cheese and grilled or sautéed vegetables? If you prefer, you can replace the chives with parsley or chopped thyme.

