name:
Strawberry cheesecake
ingredients:
Dry chocolate cookies: 5oz(150 g)
Butter: ⅓cup(70 g)
Brown sugar: 3tbsp(40 g)
Strawberries: 0.5lb(250 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Heavy cream: 3tbsp(50 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ⅓cup(150 g)
Isinglass: 0.33oz(10 g)
Strawberries: to taste
Dry chocolate cookies: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + almeno 3 ore di rassodamento in frigorifero

instructions:
We have proposed it in many ways, the classic cheesecake in all its variations. Here's one of the freshest: strawberry cheesecake . The big size of refined single portions, a delicacy to be enjoyed in spring! A no-bake dessert to be served as a snack or at the end of a meal. Delicious in its simplicity, greedy with its base of chocolate biscuits and a cold mascarpone and ricotta cream enriched with a quick strawberry coulis! What more could you ask for? Perhaps to enjoy many other variations of this exquisite dessert:
Let's start from the base of your strawberry cheesecake : melt the butter over low heat, or in the microwave, and let it cool. Pour the cookies, brown sugar into the mixer and blend until completely crumbled . Transfer to a bowl and add the melted butter .
Mix well until you get a homogenous mixture. Line the base of a 8 inch (20 cm) diameter pan lined with parchment paper and with a strip of acetate on the edges . If you do not have acetate, you can also use parchment paper. Pour the cookies mixture in it .
Compact well with the help of the back of a spoon , for a uniform thickness . Place the base in the refrigerator for at least an hour. Meanwhile, take care of the cream: wash the strawberries and remove the leaves .
Transfer them to the mixer and blend them until you get a sauce . Sift the sauce obtained to remove any seeds .
Keep your strawberry sauce aside . Pour the ricotta and mascarpone into a bowl , then mix with a spatula to soften the cream.
Sift the powdered sugar a little at a time on the cream and mix until it is completely absorbed . Soak the gelatin in cold water and wait a couple of minutes.
Heat the cream on the stove . When the cream starts to boil, turn off the heat. Squeeze the gelatin and pour it into the cream .
Stir with a spoon or a whisk , until completely dissolved and let it cool. In the meantime, pour the strawberry sauce in the cheese cream . Mix until you get a cream with a homogeneous color.
Pour the warm cream and gelatin mixture and mix well, to incorporate it with the rest of the ingredients . Take the base out of the fridge and pour the cream on top .
Using a spatula level the surface well. Transfer to the refrigerator for at least 2 hours. Once ready, take the cheesecake from the fridge and widen the mold ring to remove it .
Transfer to a serving dish and remove the acetate on the edges . Decorate with fresh strawberries and crumbled biscuits . Strawberry cheesecake is ready to serve.
Strawberry cheesecake can be kept in the refrigerator for a maximum of two days, under a cloche.
You can use the same procedure with other fruits, for example blueberries or even using a mix of red fruits.
If you prefer a version without gelain, try the recipe for baked strawberries and mascarpone cheesecake!
We also advise you to take advantage of the season to make many other dishes with strawberries such as our creamy risotto with sweet and sour flavors!

