name:
Strawberry and mascarpone French toast
ingredients:
Whole wheat sandwich bread: 8slices
Eggs: 2- medium
Whole milk: ½cup(60 g)
Strawberries: 0.5lb(200 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 2 ½cups(550 g)
Honey: 1 ½tbsp(30 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Don't be fooled by the name: strawberry and mascarpone French toasts is not French, but Anglo-Saxon, and are one of the great classics of Sunday brunches that for decades have made us dream in the scenes of American films. For some years now, luckily for us with a sweet tooth, they have also spread to our cities! Taken by the whirlwind of culinary novelty, at GialloZafferano too we have begun to prepare our morning breakfasts with juices, pancakes in maple syrup, brownies, cocotte eggs with salmon from time to time ... and the inevitable French toast, with a delicious filling of mascarpone and strawberries, the same combination of strawberry tiramisu! Like many of the best recipes, even that of French toast comes from the anti-waste culture. It was in fact common to fry stale bread in butter to make it tasty and fragrant again. Today French toast is made more often with bread, but you can try the older version to recycle the leftover bread from the day before. In both cases, success is guaranteed: with such a sweet and rich good morning, you will delight young and old!
To prepare strawberry and mascarpone French toast , start by taking care of the filling. Put the mascarpone in a small bowl, add the honey , cinnamon and mix well with a whisk to obtain a homogeneous cream .
Then proceed with the strawberries: wash and dry them, then remove the stalk . Then cut them into slices not too thin lengthwise and set aside. Now spread the mascarpone cream on one side of all the slices of bread .
Arrange neatly the strawberries on 4 of the bread slices , and place the bread slices with mascarpone on top . Keep the french toast aside .
Now, in a large bowl with low edges, beat the eggs pour the milk , and mix with a fork . Then take a first toast and dip it in the egg first on one side
and then on the other , so that it is uniformly soaked. In a large non-stick pan put the butter and let it melt. Then place a toast on it, being careful not to break it and brown it for 2-3 minutes.
Turn it gently and brown it for 2-3 minutes on the other side as well . Remove the French toast from the pan, place it on a cutting board and cut it in half along the diagonal to obtain two triangles . Proceed in the same way with all the French toasts, finally enjoy the warm or hot strawberry and mascarpone French toast !
French toasts should preferably be eaten freshly made.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you want to add a delicious touch to your strawberry and mascarpone French toast, add some white or dark chocolate flakes to the filling: they will be even more irresistible!

