name:
Beef and coleslaw sandwich with crispy chips
ingredients:
Beef: 2.25lbs(1 kg)
Red onions: 0.5lb(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(10 g)
Worcestershire sauce: 2tbsp(30 g)
Dark beer: 3cups(660 ml)
Cabbage: 0.25lb(80 g)
Red cabbage: 0.25lb(80 g)
Greek yogurt: 1cup(200 g)
Mustard: 1tbsp(15 g)
Honey: ½tbsp(10 g)
Tabasco®: 5drops
Potatoes: 0.66lb(300 g)
Smoked paprika: 1pinch
Hot dog rolls: 8

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 3 h
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
Is there any other food other than a sandwich that better represents the street food culture, bought at kiosks on street corners and eaten in the car, with the windows down and the radio on, ready to get back on the road? We are convinced not. Sandwiches, whether you eat them along Route 66 or comfortably spread out on the sofa, carry a little of that young and free spirit told by the poets of the beat generation. Even in a gourmet version with fine brisket, gently cooked in a casserole for 3 hours ... as in the beef and coleslaw sandwich with crispy chips that we present today! The acidulous freshness of the cabbage salad, the supreme goodness of the strips of meat soaked in their delicious cooking juices, the softness of the sandwich and the spicy crunchiness of the chips make this sandwich a real rock concert for the taste buds. A bite will be enough to take you to the west coast of the United States, waiting at a food truck, like modern Jack Kerouacs , hungry for life… and delicious sandwiches.
Looking for more delicious sandwiches? Check out these recipes:
To make the beef and coleslaw sandwich with crispy chips , start by cutting the red onions into strips . Take the beef brisket and sprinkle it carefully with salt and pepper .
Heat the oil in a saucepan suitable for long cooking, and place the meat on it . Braise it on all sides , then add the onions .
Deglaze with the Worcester sauce and beer , and cover with a lid . The meat will need to cook for 3 hours over low heat. Take care to turn it every half hour to ensure uniform cooking.
Meanwhile, prepare the coleslaw. Cut the cabbage in half , and remove the hard heart . Cut it further into wedges
and then julienne . Proceed in the same way with the red cabbage, cutting it too with the mandoline slicer . Place both types of cabbage in a bowl
And season with Greek yogurt , mustard , honey
and Tabasco . Mix well and set aside. Move on to take care of the chips. Wash the potatoes thoroughly
and cut them very thin without peeling them . Dry them on a sheet of absorbent paper to remove the excess water, then, in a bowl, season them with oil , salt, pepper
and smoked paprika . Gently mix , then arrange the chips (without overlapping them) on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and bake them in a convection oven at 430 °F (220°C) for 10 minutes .
After 3 hours of cooking, the brisket is ready . Transfer it to a cutting board and check that it has reached the right cooking point: it should be soft. Shred the brisket with a fork .
Collect the meat cooking juices in a small bowl , and now take care of the composition of your sandwiches. Cut the bread rolls in half and stuff them with coleslaw .
Add the beef and sprinkle with a generous dose of cooking juices . Close, and enjoy your beef and coleslaw sandwiches accompanied by crispy chips … and a nice beer!
Beef and coleslaw sandwiches are best enjoyed freshly made. However, you can keep the cabbage salad in the fridge, covered, for 1-2 days. Beef can also be kept in the covered fridge for 1-2 days, and can be frozen when cooked.

