name:
Mango and lime popsicles
ingredients:
Mango: 1lb(500 g)
Sugar: ⅓cup(60 g)
Lime juice: 1.5oz(40 g)
Almond milk: 1 ¼cup(280 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + 3 hours in the freezer

instructions:
What summer would it be without a nice popsicleto cool us even under the sun? If you are looking for a popsicle with "superpowers" to fight even the hottest heat, mango and lime popsicles are for you: thanks to their creamy texture, given by the mango pulp and almond milk, you will have the best refreshing experience! Enriched by the fresh and pungent notes of lime. They are prepared with very few ingredients and are perfect both as a snack for the little ones, and as a light dessert at the end of a dinner with friends. What are you waiting for? Get yourself a mold and prepare mango and lime popsicles !
To prepare the mango and lime popsicles , start with the mango: peel it with a potato peeler and then get the pulp by cutting around the core ; you will need to obtain 1 lb (400 g) for this recipe. Put the mango pulp in the mixer and add the sugar .
Cut the lime in half and squeeze it with a juicer . Pour the seedless juice into the mixer, along with the mango and sugar .
Blend well and, once the mango is reduced to a puree, add the almond milk . Blend again to mix all the ingredients well and then pour the mixture into 1.33 oz (70 ml) popsicle molds . Distribute the mixture in each mold, taking care to leave 1-2 millimeters from the inner edge of the mold .
Now place a lid on the mold and insert a wooden popsicle stick into the hole , so that each popsicle has its own stick . Put the mold in the freezer for at least 3 hours. When the popsicles have completely frozen, remove the cover : the sticks must remain firmly in the popsicle.
You can put the mold under running water for a few moments, being careful not to get the popsicles wet : this will help you unmold the popsicles more easily. Gently remove them from each mold, being careful not to break them and serve them immediately . Your mango and lime popsicles are ready to be enjoyed!
Once placed in the mold with their stick, the mango and lime popsicles can be stored in the mold in the freezer for up to 3 months.
To shorten the freezing time, you can use the frozen mango and blend it together with the other ingredients, so as to put the already cold popsicle mixture in the molds.

