name:
Avocado and chocolate popsicles
ingredients:
Avocado: 0.66lb(300 g)
Coconut milk: ½cup(125 g)
Water: ¾cup(200 g)
Honey: 3tbsp(66 g)
Lemon juice: 1 ¾tbsp(25 g)
Dark chocolate: to taste
Chopped hazelnuts: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 4 hours in the freezer

instructions:
Avocado is an exotic fruit with a lively color that boasts a soft and full-bodied pulp with a delicate taste reminiscent of walnuts, a contested delight between sweet and savory that makes every dish special, from avocado and shrimp noodles to avocado cheesecake. With the arrival of the hot season we have also made it the protagonist of the summer snack par excellence with avocado and chocolate popsicles , a concentrate of taste and freshness impossible to resist! After seeing how easy it is to make avocado and chocolate popsicles, we bet you will want to try many other tempting flavors such as mango and lime popsicles, golden milk ice cream, yogurt and fruit ice cream on a stick or cream and coffee ice cream. ... one more greedy than the other!
If you enjoyed the combination of avocado and chocolate, you should also try our Avocado Chocolate Mousse
To make avocado and chocolate popsicles , first clean the avocado: cut it in half , remove the central core , remove the pulp with a teaspoon and place it in a tall-sided glass .
Add coconut milk , honey , lemon juice
and water . Blend everything until you get a smooth and homogeneous cream .
Pour the mixture into some popsicle molds . we used a mold of 10 popsicles with a capacity of 70 ml (2 1/3 oz) each. Insert the stick and place in the freezer for at least 4 hours. Meanwhile, chop the dark chocolate and melt it in a bain-marie or in the microwave.
When your popsicles are ready, unmold them by placing the mold under running water to facilitate the extraction (14-15).
Now take care of the decoration: dip the tips of the popsicles in the chocolate to create a diagonal glaze, cover the chocolate part with the chopped hazelnuts and immediately enjoy your avocado and chocolate popsicles !
Once placed in the mold with their stick, the avocado and chocolate popsicles can be stored in the mold in the freezer for up to 3 months.
Try to vary the taste of the coating using white chocolate and chopped pistachios.

