name:
Yogurt and berries popsicles
ingredients:
Yogurt: 1 ¼cup(250 g)- lemon flavor
Berries: 0.66lb(100 g)
Sugar: 3tbsp(40 g)
Lemon juice: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Whole milk: ⅔cup(140 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Note +4 hours in the freezer

instructions:
It's snack time and you are undecided whether to enjoy a fresh ice cream or treat yourself to a nutritious yogurt? No worries, we have a tasty compromise that's right for you: yogurt and berries popsicles . All the authenticity of yogurt is enclosed in a delicious ice cream on a stick to be savored bite after bite like a popsicle. Here we propose a double flavor version enriched with fresh fruit that will give a captivating chromatic contrast, but it is only one of the countless variations and combinations that you can test. Yogurt and berries popsicles are the healthy snacks you were looking for. Your children will fall in love with them, but we are sure that these fresh delights on a stick will conquer the whole family.
To make the yogurt and berries popsicles , pour the organic lemon yogurt into a bowl, add the sugar , the lemon juice and the milk .
Stir with a whisk to mix the mixture then distribute half the mixture in a jug and half in a bowl to which you will add the fresh berries . Blend the yogurt and fruit mixture
until you get a homogeneous cream . Transfer it to a jug , this way it will be easier to pour it into the popsicle molds . Fill half of each mold. Place them in the freezer to harden this first part for about 40 minutes.
Once they have solidified, take the ice creams out of the freezer, and fill with the remaining amount of yogurt . At this point cover with the lid and insert the sticks in each holes . Place in the freezer and let your popsicles solidify for at least 3 hours.
After this time the popsicles will be ready, remove the lid , to easily extract the popsicles pass the mold under cold water for a few moments , then take them out and enjoy them immediately !
Yogurt and berries popsicles can be stored in the freezer for 5 days.
You can use the flavor of yogurt or the kind of fruit that suits you best and add mint leaves or fresh grated ginger to give it an aromatic touch. Play around by alternating the colors and flavors of your popsicles, thus creating various chromatic layers.

