name:
Coffee and cream popsicles
ingredients:
Heavy cream: 2 ⅔cups(625 g)
Coffee: ⅓cup(75 g)
Honey: 3tbsp(75 g)
Dark chocolate: ¼cup(40 g)
Dark chocolate: 2tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Everyone always likes popsicles! Not long ago, for the little ones we prepared yogurt and berries popsicles for a fresh and healthy snack... and today we offer you coffee and cream popsicles that contains a unique aroma and a special sweetness to be discovered. The variegation of cream and coffee hides a secret inside: crunchy pieces of chocolate, but since the gluttony never ends we have chosen to decorate them, "dirtying" them even with chocolate on the outside. If you really want to overdo it, try dipping them halfway in chocolate like we did for the avocado popsicles!
To prepare coffee and cream popsicles , first prepare the coffee with a mocha and let it cool. Then pour the cream in a bowl , add the honey and whip half way through .
You will need to stop when the cream is already a little thick, but not yet fully whipped . At this point divide the mixture into two bowls, pouring about 250 g into one and about 450 g into the other . Pour the cold coffee into the latter
and mix (7-8). Make some chocolate chips using a potato peeler .
Equip yourself with a mold for popsicles and insert a little coffee cream inside each section ; then add the chocolate chips and continue adding a little white cream .
Continue alternating the two types of cream until the mold is completely filled. Insert the wooden sticks and place in the freezer for at least 4 hours. After this time, take the mold of the freezer again, wetting the outside of the mold
remove the popsicles gently, place them on a tray and place them in the freezer . When serving, coarsely chop the chocolate and melt it in a bain-marie (or in the microwave) . Then use it to decorate any coffe and cream popsicles , wait a few seconds for it to solidify and serve !
You can keep the coffee and cream popsicles inside the mold or, once solidified, transfer them to a bag. In both cases they will be placed in the freezer and you can keep them for a couple of months at most.
You can decorate the ice creams with chocolate.
You can use cereals or dried fruit instead of chocolate chips.

