name:
Yogomisù
ingredients:
Greek yogurt: 1cup(350 g)
Heavy cream: 6tbsp(90 g)
Powdered sugar: 1tbsp(10 g)
Berries: 1cup(200 g)- (raspberries, blackberries and blueberries)
Brown sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Water: 3tbsp(40 g)
Ladyfingers: 8
Berries: to taste
Mint: to taste
Dried raspberries: to taste- (for the powder)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 7 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour in the fridge

instructions:
Summer is nearly here and as always, this year we'll need to make a few sacrifices for the bathing suit season! But that doesn't mean saying no to a delicious dessert! Yogomisù is a much lighter version of the classic tiramisù and what's more, it has an extremely fresh note, making it perfect for this season! No eggs, mascarpone and coffee... what make these dainty jars so special is a little yogurt, a dash of cream and lashings of berries. If this means living a life of sacrifice, then count us in! Together, let's discover how to make yogomisù !
Check out these other tasty variations of tiramisu:
Yogomisù , start by placing the brown sugar in a saucepan ; add the water and bring to the boil without stirring at all. Once the sugar has fully dissolved, add the berries
and cook for around 5 minutes . Now place them in a mixer glass and blend into a cream. Place the puree in a baking tray and leave to one side.
Now prepare the cream. Start by whipping the thoroughly chilled cream, slowly adding the powdered sugar (7-8). Place the yogurt in a bowl
and gradually add the cream , stirring from the bottom up . Now compose your glasses. Take one of the ladyfingers and break it in half .
Dip both pieces in the berry fruit puree and turn them over using a fork, so that you cover both sides. Take one of the small jars and add a layer of cream . Add both ladyfinger pieces
and a little puree . Repeat with the other layer: add a spoon of cream and then two ladyfinger pieces, followed by the puree
and finish with another spoon of cream . Crumble the dried raspberries into a powder and use it to garnish the surface of the yogomisù . Finish with the berries and mint leaves , and repeat for the other 3 jars. Place back in the refrigerator and leave to firm up for at least 1 hour before serving your yogomisù !
We recommend storing yogomisù in the refrigerator for no longer than 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
Unable to find dried raspberries? No problem! Replace with unsweetened cocoa.

