name:
Coconut bites
ingredients:
Shredded coconut: 1cup(250 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 3cups(500 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(100 g)
Shredded coconut: 5tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Makes: 35 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + firming time in the fridge

instructions:
Summer brings a breath of fresh air to our tables! It also inspires us to organize parties and drinks with our friends more often, perhaps on the balcony, by candlelight and with our favorite music playing in the background. You can prepare lots of delicious finger food on such pleasant occasions, along with desserts for a wonderful end to the evening, just like these coconut bites . These fresh and white balls are perfect for all occasions when there are lots of guests and you have little time on your hands! Preparing sumptuous and scenographic desserts is always hugely satisfying, but often you'll find it is handier to anticipate preparations, so that you have more time for your guests! Coconut bites are also perfect if you are alone and fancy a sweet break. Ricotta cheese, sugar and coconut: 3 ingredients that will turn into a perfect summer dessert in just 20 minutes. Soft, fresh and delicious! But be warned, because these coconut treats are irresistibly morish and will disappear fast!
To prepare coconut bites , start by sieving the ricotta cheese in a bowl, which will make it creamier ; add the powdered sugar and stir with a spatula .
Once you obtain an even mixture, add 5 tablespoons of shredded coconut and stir once more until fully incorporated . Now take around 0.7 oz of the mixture with a spoon ,
place it on the palm of your hand and roll it into a ball .
Place it in a bowl where you will have added the shredded coconut for final garnishing and move it delicately to cover the entire surface. As you make the coconut bites, place each one on a tray ; with these amounts you should make 35 balls, each around 0.7 oz. Now place them in the refrigerator for around 10 minutes so that they firm up a little and above all, so that they are cool when served. Your coconut bites are ready: all you have to do now is serve them !
Coconut bites can be stored in the refrigerator for no longer than 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Use a fresh and rather dry ricotta cheese, otherwise place it in a colander and leave in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours to drain the excess whey! If you prefer, you can coat your coconut balls with cocoa or add a little liquor to the mixture for extra flavor, in which case you will need to adjust the thickness of the mixture accordingly: if too soft then add more shredded coconut!

