name:
Four-cheese quiche
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Fine salt: 1
Water: ¼cup(50 g)- ice cold
Butter: 1(100 g)- cold
Egg whites: 1
Egg yolks: 3
Eggs: 1
Whipping cream: 1 ¼cup(280 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Roquefort: 0.25lb(120 g)
Taleggio cheese: 0.33lb(150 g)
Gruyere cheese: 0.25lb(120 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: ⅔cup(70 g)
Thyme: to taste
Walnut kernels: 0.5oz(15 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note +30 minuti di riposo dell'impasto

instructions:
Our recipe for four-cheese quiche will give you exactly what you’d expect from this dish – and maybe even more: An irresistible creamy, tasty combination of flavors, with a hint of herbs. Our four cheese musketeers in this case are Roquefort, Taleggio, Gruyere, and Grana Padano, sagely combined to form a quiche with an intense, unmistakable taste, perfect for palates that don’t shy away from strong flavors. This enticing savory tart is perfect for a fall menu: Cut it into bite-sized cubes and serve as part of a buffet as a tantalizing appetizer, or enjoy it in its own right as a second course dish!
To make the four-cheese quiche , start with the pie dough: Add the flour, cold butter cut into cubes , ice water , and salt to the bowl of a food processor and blitz for just a very short time: As soon as the mixture has come together in a mass, the dough is ready .
Cover it and leave in the fridge for at least 30 minutes . Now turn to the filling: Cut the Gruyere , Taleggio ,
and Roquefort cheeses into cubes. Next, place the heavy cream, egg yolks , whole egg ,
nutmeg , pepper , and a pinch of salt (bearing in mind that the cheeses are already very flavorful) to a bowl, and whisk together .
Then add the Roquefort , Gruyere , Taleggio ,
and Grana Padano , setting a small amount of each cheese aside to sprinkle on top of the quiche. Season with the thyme . Now roll out your pie dough into a thin sheet .
Arrange the dough in a pie dish, which doesn’t have to be greased. Make sure the dough is stuck to the dish well, trim the edges and prick the bottom using a fork , then pour in the cheesy filling .
Finish off the quiche with the remaining cheese (22-23-24) that you set aside and a handful of thyme leaves. Brush the edges of the dough with the egg white. Bake the quiche on the bottom rack of a conventional oven preheated to 345°F (175°C), for around 50 minutes.
Once it’s finished cooking , sprinkle with chopped walnuts and some more thyme leaves, and then your four-cheese quiche is ready to be served .
Once your four-cheese quiche has been cooked, you can keep it in the fridge for a couple of days, although it’s better to eat it sooner rather than later so it doesn’t lose its texture. You can also freeze the quiche after it’s been cooked. The pie dough can be made in advance and stored in the fridge for a couple of days or frozen for one month.
You can swap the cheese stated in the recipe for the cheese of your choice; the Roquefort can be replaced with Gorgonzola or Brie, for example.  The pie dough can also be made using whole-wheat flour, giving you a coarser base, which isn’t bad at all with the cheeses. You can use any leftover egg white to make our egg white and cocoa cake!

