name:
Yogurt briquette with berries
ingredients:
Greek yogurt: 2cups(500 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1cup(300 g)
Powdered sugar: 4tbsp(30 g)
Wildflower honey: 2tsp(15 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.33oz(10 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Digestive biscuits: 1oz(50 g)
Blueberries: 3oz(90 g)
Strawberries: 2oz(55 g)
Raspberries: 3oz(90 g)
Powdered sugar: 3tbsp(20 g)
Water: 2tsp(10 g)
Raspberries: to taste
Blueberries: to taste
Strawberries: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 6 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + 3 hours of firming time in the fridge

instructions:
Yogurt briquette with berries is a fresh spoon dessert that catches everyone's attention thanks to its shape, while also winning everyone over with its delicateness. The fresh cream and greek yogurt mingle to create an irresistible cream, flavored with the seeds of a vanilla bean and honey. After pouring into the briquette mold, simply leave it to cool in the refrigerator and it will become very similar to a creamy semifreddo. The sweet flavor and dense consistency of the cream are exalted by the typical yet subtle sour flavor of the berries: strawberries, raspberries, blueberries are turned into a delicious coulis, in just a few steps. Not only do the strawberries, along with the blueberries and raspberries, enrich the briquette with flavor, thanks to their bright colors they also create a visual contrast with the immaculate white yogurt briquette. For a final touch to your dessert, garnish it with a few leaves of fresh mint and serve your yogurt briquette with berries once thoroughly chilled, for the most beautiful (and delicious) endings to your meal!
To prepare the yogurt briquette with berrie s, start by making the coulis. Start by hulling and chopping the strawberries into pieces . Place the blueberries and the raspberries in a saucepan and add the strawberries .
Now add the sugar and the water too . Leave to cook for around 6 minutes, until nice and dense .
Now place the yogurt in a bowl, add the seeds of a vanilla bean, the honey , and stir . Soak the gelatin in cold water for around 5 minutes. In the meantime bring 1.8 oz of milk to the boil .
Remove from the heat, wait 1 minute, then delicately wring out the isinglass and add it to the milk ; stir with a spoon until fully dissolved ; when lukewarm , add it to the yogurt mixture
and stir thoroughly with a spatula . Beat the other 8.8 oz of fresh milk together with the powdered sugar (use a thoroughly cleaned whisk) and gradually add to the yogurt mix a little at a time, stirring from the bottom up .
As soon as you have incorporated all the milk , place half of the mixture in a 8x4.5 inch sponge cake mold , add some of the coulis in the middle, leaving a space around the edge .
Cover with the remaining cream and smooth the surface . Now coarsely crumble the cookies by hand
and cover the base of your briquette . Lightly press down by hand so that they adhere thoroughly and leave in the refrigerator to firm up for at least 3 hours. Place all the berries in a tall container
and blend with an immersion mixer . Once the resting time is up, the briquette will be solid and compact. Run the blade of a knife along the edge of the mold so that it is easier to remove the dessert . Place a serving dish over the mold and turn it over ,
to remove the briquette from the mold . Decorate with the berries, the coulis and the mint leaves. Now serve it right away!
Store your yogurt briquette with berries for a couple of days in the refrigerator.
For a chocolate touch to the briquette, add some dark chocolate shards to the yogurt mix and use cocoa cookies.
If you prefer to make single-portion servings, pour the yogurt mix into a wider tray, so that you end up with a thickness of around 0.4 inches. Freeze the mix and cut into cubes you can decorate with the coulis!

