name:
Beetroot hummus
ingredients:
Precooked beets: 0.5lb(260 g)
Precooked chickpeas: 5oz(155 g)
Tahini: 1tbsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp
Lemon juice: 3tsp
Water: ½cup(90 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Cumin: to taste
Sweet Paprika: to taste
Dried chili pepper: to taste
Precooked chickpeas: to taste
Sesame seeds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you love hummus, get ready for our even richer and more colorful version. Beetroot hummus is prepared in just a few minutes and will give your aperitifs a truly original touch! Within this variant there will be chickpeas and tahini, two of the fundamental ingredients of this Middle Eastern sauce. As many of you know, tahini is a paste made with sesame seeds that gives a truly distinctive taste. Having added the beetroot to contrast its sweetness and balance this cream, we indulged ourselves with spices, which you can customize according to your taste.
Beetroot hummus is perfect to enrich your wraps, to be enjoyed with croutons or together with raw vegetables. An appetizer you won't want to give up anymore, especially during the summer!
To prepare beetroot hummus, first put on gloves and wrap a cutting board in plastic wrap. Beetroot tends to stain a lot so be careful. Once this is done, cut the beetroot into cubes and transfer it to a tall, narrow container. Also add the drained chickpeas and tahini .
Add oil , lemon juice and water .
Add the powdered spices: cumin, paprika and chili . Pour the previously chopped parsley and blend everything with an immersion mixer .
You will need to get a smooth, creamy and thick texture . Transfer to a small bowl, decorate with precooked chickpeas and sesame seeds . Beetroot hummus is ready to serve .
We recommend storing beetroot hummus in the refrigerator for a maximum of 2 days.
Hummus can be flavored with various spices, we have chosen paprika, cumin and chili to give a spicy touch that contrasts with the sweetness of the beetroot.
You can add other spices to taste including berbere and curry.
Depending on the desired consistency, the doses of water and chickpeas can be decreased or increased.
Beetroot hummus can be eaten with bread or flatbread, accompanied by vegetables or croutons.

