name:
Apple cake
ingredients:
Rennet apple: 2lbs(930 g)- (1.5 lb (700 g) peeled)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(250 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Whole milk: ⅔cup(150 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 2- at room temperature
Lemons: 1
Baking powder: 1tbsp(16 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1pinch
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note EDITOR’S NOTE: It’s normal for the cake to be very moist. If you prefer, you can extend the cooking time by 10 minutes, but remember to cover the surface with aluminum foil so that it doesn't burn.

instructions:
Apples have always been the undisputed stars of the homemade dessert, including our very own apple cake : Tasty, soft, and full of flavor, it really is the ultimate comfort food! After all, anyone who has tried one knows just how comforting a homemade apple cake can be, with its simple sweetness, soft texture, and unmistakable aroma; timeless flavors that conjure up memories of time spent with family, each with its own recipe to be closely guarded like the most precious of treasure. This recipe is for our own version of apple cake , perfect for an indulgent and mouth-watering treat to be shared with loved ones, though there are many variations of this dessert, from one with sliced apples to a light version, without butter or with mascarpone cheese!
To make the apple cake , first melt the butter in the microwave or over a bain-marie, and set aside. Grate the lemon zest and squeeze the juice out of it to obtain around 2 tbsp (30 g) , then set both the zest and the juice aside. Slice the apples in half and remove the cores .
Peel the apples , then cut them into quarters , and slice them down the short side .
Place the sliced apples in a bowl, sprinkle them with the lemon juice , and mix well. This will help prevent them from going brown. Next, sift the cake flour with the baking powder . Then, pour the eggs
and some of the sugar into a large bowl. Start beating with a hand mixer and continue pouring in the sugar a little at a time .
When the mixture begins to lighten, add a pinch of salt and continue whisking until the mixture is light and fluffy. At this point, add the melted butter, now at room temperature . Flavor with the cinnamon powder
and add the grated lemon peel . Add the sifted flour and baking powder a spoonful at a time , continuing to whisk as you do so. Once the dry ingredients are thoroughly mixed in, lower the speed of the hand mixer and drizzle in the milk, which should also be at room temperature .
Once the milk is thoroughly mixed in, turn off the mixer; the cake batter is ready . Drain the apples in a colander to remove the lemon juice and add them to the mixture .
Gently mix from the bottom up to ensure the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated . Butter and sprinkle with sugar a 9-inch (22-cm) cake pan and pour in the batter with the help of a spatula. The cake is ready to be baked in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for around 55 minutes.
Once baked, take it out of the oven and leave to cool completely before removing it from the pan. Dust the cake with powdered sugar and serve : Your apple cake is ready to be enjoyed!
Store the apple cake at room temperature, preferably under a glass cake dome, for a maximum of 2-3 days. It can also be frozen once baked.
If you don’t like cinnamon, why not try flavoring the cake with the seeds of a vanilla pod. To make the apple cake richer, you could always try adding pine nuts or raisins to the batter.

