name:
Chocolate coconut bars
ingredients:
Shredded coconut: 1cup(200 g)
Milk Chocolate: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Condensed milk: ½cup(150 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Shredded coconut: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time

instructions:
To prepare chocolate coconut bars , place the shredded coconut in a bowl. Add the condensed milk and stir with a spatula . Now add the salt and stir some more.
Place the mixture on a sheet of parchment paper and press it by hand to form a 5.5 x 4 inch rectangle. It will need to be 0.8 inches thick . Leave to cool in the refrigerator for around 1 hour.
Remove the mixture from the refrigerator; use a long bladed knife to cut it in half lengthwise and then into 6 pieces lengthwise, to make 12 bars . Delicately shape each one by hand to smooth the corners .
Place them on a tray as you shape them one by one , then leave them in the refrigerator. In the meantime, finely chop the chocolate and place 7 oz in a bowl and 1.8 oz in another .
Melt the chocolate in a bain-marie or in the microwave. With the latter, heat in short bursts of a few seconds each so as not to burn the chocolate; stir every 30 seconds until fully melted . In the meantime, remove the bars from the refrigerator; they should not be too cold otherwise when coated the chocolate would crystallize immediately. As soon as the chocolate melts, add the part you left to one side and stir with a spatula. Continue stirring until the chocolate reaches 86°F (30°C). This chocolate tempering technique is called seeding, and is the simplest method. In the meantime, line a grille with a sheet of parchment paper.
As soon as the chocolate reaches the right temperature, dip the bars in it, using a fork . Remove the bars from the chocolate and gently tap to remove any excess chocolate . Place them on the grille and continue covering the rest of the bars in the chocolate.
Decorate with a little shredded coconut on the surface and leave to crystallize at room temperature . If it's too hot, then place the bars in the refrigerator. You can serve the chocolate coconut bars as soon as the chocolate fully dries.
They can be stored for at least 5 days in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap. Any other kind of storage method is not recommended.
They also be coated in dark chocolate, for an enhanced contrast between the coating and the coconut and condensed milk filling.

