name:
Seafood cavatelli
ingredients:
Remilled durum wheat semolina: 1lb(400 g)
Water: 1cup(240 g)- room temperature
Fine salt: 1pinch
Mussels: 1lb(500 g)
Clams: 1lb(500 g)
Razor clams: 1lb(500 g)
Cockles: 1lb(500 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 0.66lb(300 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 2
Parsley: to taste
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
We’ve already revealed all the tricks to make the perfect cavatelli pasta at home, so now it’s time to discover a tasty sauce with our recipe for seafood cavatelli . In this fishy first course dish, you’ll find mussels and three types of clams, a delicious quartet that will take the flavor of your semolina dumplings up a notch. Making the fresh pasta yourself will be hugely satisfying, as well as accompanying it with this aromatic sauce, which will make your dish even more mouthwatering!
To make the seafood cavatelli, first soak the three types of clams in cold water with coarse salt. You’ll need three different bowls and a couple of hours to soak the clams . You’ll also have to change the water every once in a while. Now turn to making the dough for the cavatelli: Add the semolina and salt into a bowl. Pour the water in slowly while kneading by hand .
Once all the ingredients have come together , transfer to a pastry board and knead for 5-10 minutes . Shape the dough into a small ball, wrap in plastic wrap , and leave to rest for 30 minutes at room temperature.
Once rested, take a portion of the dough, keeping the rest covered so it doesn’t dry out . Roll out the dough, creating a sausage shape around ?-½ inch (1 cm) thick . Next, cut this dough sausage into pieces of around ?-½ inch (1 cm) .
Add another pinch of semolina and shape the cavatelli. Use the long part of your thumb to help press down and, at the same time, drag the piece of dough forward : This is how you’ll get the first cavatello . Arrange the cavatelli on a floured tray as you shape them, repeating these steps until you’ve used up all the dough .
Next, wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them into quarters . Add them to a pan with a drizzle of oil , let them sizzle for a few moments, and then lower the heat. Add a pinch of salt and let them cook over low heat for 10-15 minutes. Now clean the mussels under running water , using a small knife to remove any impurities on the shell and the beard (byssus).
Move on to the sauce: Cut into one of the chili peppers , and then add some oil, one garlic clove, and the chili to a pot. Heat the oil and add the smooth clams and razor clams .
Cover the pot with a lid and wait a few minutes for the clams to open. Meanwhile, heat a drizzle of oil in another pot along with the other clove of garlic and chili pepper, which you’ve also cut into, and add the mussels and cockles .
Cover this pot with a lid and allow the mollusks to open . Now go back to the first pot with the smooth clams and European razor clams, which should have opened .
Drain the seafood, saving the cooking water and setting aside. Remove the shells from a good part of the mollusks, leaving some in their shells to be used to decorate the dish . Heat another pot full of water and, once boiling, add salt and cook your fresh cavatelli until they’re al dente . It will only take a few minutes.
Add some of the seafood cooking water to the cherry tomatoes, then drain the cavatelli and pour them straight into the pan with the sauce . Stir and add additional cooking water, if needed, while you allow the flavors to develop. Turn off the heat and add both the shelled seafood and the mollusks still in their shells .


Sprinkle over chopped parsley and a pinch of black pepper . Finish off the dish with a drizzle of oil and serve your seafood cavatelli right away .
We recommend eating the seafood cavatelli right away. Otherwise, you can keep it in the fridge and eat it within one day.
If you’d like, you can also cook the seafood all together; just be careful to follow the cooking times to keep them from turning rubbery. If you want the sauce to be creamier, or if cherry tomatoes aren’t in season, you can swap the fresh tomatoes for tomato purée. If you notice that there’s still sand in the sauce, you can filter it through sterile gauze. There might be more seafood cooking liquid than you need so, to avoid just throwing it away, you can use it to cook the pasta: This will make the cavatelli absorb even more of the flavor!

