name:
Oreo® cake
ingredients:
Oreo® cookies: 16
Butter: ¼cup(50 g)- soft
Cream cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Heavy cream: 1cup(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 6tbsp(40 g)
Oreo cookies: 12
Heavy cream: ½cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + 2 hours rest

instructions:
Crazy about Oreo® cookies? Do you dream of a giant one for your birthday? Let us explain how you can prepare one in a few simple steps! Oreo® cake is a cold cheesecake, with no baking required. It is also gelatin free and perfect for all occasions. America's most famous cookie is used to create a crunchy base, with all their flavor. A slightly punchy note offers a contrast to the soft and sweet cream and cheese filling, which will win you over, bite after bite. Also called Oreo® dream pie , it truly lives up to its name: everyone will be impressed with its simple yet scenographic decorations! Ready to start dreaming? Let's get started!?
To prepare Oreo® cake start from the base: divide the 16 Oreo® cookies and remove the cream using a spatula . Place it in a bowl and leave to one side . Now place the biscuit part in the bowl of a bladed mixer
along with the chopped butter at room temperature . Blend to obtain a crumbly and thoroughly amalgamated mixture . Place on a 7 inch (18 cm) pastry dish on a tray lined with parchment paper and add the biscuits blended with the butter. Press the mixture down with the back of a spoon
to cover the entire base . Place back in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. Prepare the filling in the meantime: beat the cream and powdered sugar using an electric whisk , until firm .
Place the Oreo® cream set aside for later in a bowl , together with the spreadable cheese . Stir with the electric whisk for around 1 minute.
Upon obtaining a smooth cream, incorporate the previously whipped cream, stirring from the bottom up (13-14). Now remove the base from the refrigerator and pour the cream over it .
Smooth the surface with the back of a spoon . Blend 8 whole Oreo® cookies in the mixer, without removing the cream from the inside (17-18).
Place the blended cookies on the cake and spread over the entire surface, without pressing down too much (20-21). Place back in the refrigerator for at least 1 and a half hours.
Take the cake and run the blade of a knife along the outer edge so that you can remove the ring more easily .
After removing from the mold , beat the cream with an electric whisk and put it in a 0.4 inch (1 cm) star-tipped pastry bag .
Now add tufts of cream to the surface of the cake and garnish with Oreo® cookies split in half . Serve your Oreo® cake nice and cold .
Oreo® cake can be stored in the refrigerator for no longer than a day, or in the freezer for a week.
You can make the cake cream more stable by adding 0.25 oz (7 g) of gelatin, previously soaked in cold water and dissolved in 0.35 oz (10 g) of hot cream. Simply add it to the cream cheese mixture before the whipped cream.

