name:
Potatoes with cheddar and bacon
ingredients:
Sweet potatoes (or yams): 3.33lbs(1.5 kg)
Bacon: 5.33oz(150 g)
Cheddar cheese: 5.33oz(150 g)
Sage: 5leaves
Thyme: 3sprigs
Coarse salt: 2tbsp(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Makes: 3 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
The variety of vegetables is really amazing, not only in types but also in colors. Think of potatoes: yellow, white, red, purple and ... orange! The latter are also known as sweet potatoes or American potatoes (Batata). They are the tasty protagonists of this recipe: potatoes with cheddar and bacon . To stuff these exotic tuberous roots we have thought of two typical ingredients of American street food that will give an irresistible streamlined and tasty touch to the recipe. By following these simple steps you will be able to bring to the table such a rich side dish that it will be perfect to serve as a single dish or second course! The rule of these potatoes with cheddar and bacon is only one: enjoy them immediately, still steaming!
To prepare potatoes with cheddar and bacon , first start washing the potatoes . Then with a very sharp knife make about 6-8 cuts on each potato according to its length. It is important not to cut the potatoes up to the base but to cut them only . Prepare a mince with the sage leaves and transfer them to the inside of a bowl.
Also add the peeled thyme and the coarse salt . Stir to even out and set aside for a moment. Take the potatoes back and grease them evenly, both above and below .
Line a dripping pan with parchment paper, grease it and sprinkle a little of the freshly prepared aromatic salt on the base. Then place the potatoes and sprinkle the salt mix on these too . Season with a pinch of black pepper and a little more oil. Bake in a preheated conventional oven at 390°F (200°C) on the middle rack for about 75 minutes.
In the meantime, take cook bacon: heat a non-stick pan and when it is hot, place the slices of bacon . Cook over moderate heat for a few minutes until they are golden brown, keep in mind that they will then continue cooking in the oven. Turn them over and let them brown on the other side as well . Transfer your slices of crispy bacon to a tray and set aside.
Take the cheddar slices and cut them first into strips and then into small cubes .
After 75 minutes, take the potatoes out of the oven which in the meantime will have opened . Stuff all the cuts with cheddar and baconevery other cut . Continue this way until all the potatoes are stuffed.
Finish by placing more cheddar on the surface . Bake again for another 15 minutes , then take them out one last time and serve your potatoes with cheddar and bacon still steaming!
Potatoes with cheddar and bacon can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days maximum.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can make this recipe with yellow-fleshed potatoes.
As an alternative to cheddar you can use another stretched curd cheese; the important thing is that it is rather dry. It is not recommended to replace it with mozzarella.
Instead of bacon you can use cooked ham, without stir-frying it, or for a vegetarian variant of grilled vegetables.
For a lighter version, prepare baked sweet potatoes without the rich seasoning.

