name:
Ham, brie and walnut crepes
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ⅓cup(160 g)
Whole milk: 1 ½cup(340 g)
Eggs: 2
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Cooked ham: 0.66lb(300 g)- (slices)
Brie cheese: 0.5lb(200 g)
Walnut kernels: 1.75oz(50 g)
Whipping cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(50 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the ham, brie, and walnut crepes , first pour the flour into a bowl and start mixing with a whisk while you add the milk : You want to get a runny batter without any lumps. Next, add a pinch of salt, the egg , and then the melted butter .
Warm a crepe pan (or nonstick pan) and grease with some butter, spreading it well using a paper towel . Add one ladleful of batter to the pan and rotate it to spread the batter evenly across the bottom (or use a crepe spreader to cover the surface entirely) .
As soon as the crepe is cooked on one side , flip it over to finish cooking it . Stack the crepes on a plate as they’re ready .
To fill the crepes, first add a slice of ham , a few pieces of brie , and a handful of walnut kernels that have been crumbled by hand .
Fold the crepe into a half-moon shape , fill again with half the amount of filling that you just used , and then fold in half again to form a triangular shape . Repeat these steps with all the cooked crepes.
Now move on to the sauce: Warm the cream in a saucepan over low heat, then add 1/4 cup (30 g) of Parmigiano Reggiano cheese and let it melt while stirring. Season with salt and pepper. Pour half of this sauce into a baking dish , then arrange the crepes in the dish .
Finish off with the remaining sauce and sprinkle over the rest of the grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese. Add another pinch of pepper if you’d like , then place the baking dish on the lowest rack of a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C). Cook for around 20 minutes. When they’re finished cooking, let the ham, brie, and walnut crepes cool for a few minutes, and then garnish with some chopped parsley before serving .
You can keep your crepes for a couple of days in the refrigerator.
The batter can be made in advance, up to 12 hours beforehand, and then kept in the fridge until you’re ready to use it.
You can freeze the stuffed crepes after they’ve been cooked in the oven.
Not much of a cream person? You can also use a little béchamel sauce: Take care to keep it runny and add some flavor to it with the cheese like in the recipe.

