name:
Country-style potatoes with tomato and red onion
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2.25lbs(1 kg)
Canned tomatoes: 1lb(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¼cup(50 g)
Red onions: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Country-style potatoes are a rustic one-pot side dish that’s super easy to make! Livened up with tomato and red onion, the flavor of this dish is truly unique, yet it goes so well with lots of different second course dishes, especially meat-based ones. The name of these potatoes alludes to the fact that it’s a simple recipe that you can throw together with staple ingredients that are easy to find. We’ve tried countless potato recipes, but this one has won us over with its aroma and enveloping creaminess. This tomatoey recipe is cooked in a pot or saucepan – maybe even cast-iron – which keeps the temperature consistent to make the potatoes velvety soft.
To make the country-style potatoes with tomato and red onion , first wash and peel the potatoes , then cut them into 1-inch (2.5-cm) cubes . Now move on to the onion: Peel it and cut it in half .
Cut in half again to get quarters, then cut it into slices around ? inch (3-4 mm) thick . Heat the oil in a thick-bottomed pot or saucepan and then add the onion .  It’s a good idea to use one that’s cast-iron and not too wide, if you have one, that way the onion will be nearly fully covered by the oil. Let the onion fry over medium heat for around 10 minutes, then add the chili .
Once the onion has softened nicely, add the potatoes , season with salt, and stir. Let the potatoes brown for a couple of minutes, then pour in the crushed tomatoes . Rinse the bowl the tomatoes were in with some water, adding it to the pan as well . The potatoes should be nearly totally submerged.
Now add a grind of pepper and leave the potatoes to cook, covered , for 40-45 minutes, remembering to stir every now and then. It’s also important to check that the potatoes stay nice and moist and the sauce isn’t getting too dry (if it is, just add a splash of water to dilute it). When the potatoes are ready, finish off the dish with plenty of parsley, thyme, and marjoram leaves .
These country-style potatoes with tomato and red onion can be kept in the fridge for up to one day.
When tomatoes are in season, you can use fresh ones instead. Just blanch them to remove the skins and then blend them to get a real rustic pulp, right in the country spirit!

