name:
Asparagus crepes
ingredients:
Whole milk: 2 ¼cups(500 ml)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(250 g)
Eggs: 3
Fine salt: 1pinch
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: ½cup(50 g)
Butter: ¼cup(50 g)
Nutmeg: 1pinch
Asparagus: 1.33lbs(600 g)
Gruyere cheese: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2tbsp- grated

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes of rest for the crepe batter

instructions:
To make the asparagus crepes , first prepare the crepe dough: break the eggs into a bowl and beat them with a fork , then pour in the milk and mix everything well ( 3).
Sift the flour directly into the bowl and mix vigorously with a whisk to incorporate it in the mixture and avoid the formation of lumps . When you have obtained a smooth and homogeneous mixture, cover the bowl with plastic wrap and put it in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, boil a high pot full of water where you will cook the asparagus and move on to the preparation of the béchamel: pour the milk in a saucepan and heat it, while melting the butter in a saucepan aside. When the butter is melted, add the flour in one go and mix well to avoid the formation of lumps .
When you have obtained a golden roux, add a pinch of salt and grated nutmeg . Pour the hot milk slowly while to mixing until the béchamel has thickened . Turn off the heat and set aside.
Take the crepe batter from the refrigerator and give it a stir. Grease a non-stick pan with a little butter and heat it well over medium-low heat, then pour a ladle of the mixture in the center of the pan and spread it evenly over the entire surface with the special wooden tool or by rotating the pan. After about 1 minute the batter will begin to thicken and detach from the pan , then gently turn the crepe with a spatula and cook it for 1 minute on the other side as well . As crepes are ready, stack them on a plate and set aside.
Now you can move on to the preparation of the asparagus: remove the white part of the stem and boil them for about 10-15 minutes (the cooking time can vary depending on the size), taking care to leave the tips out of the water so that they are steam cooked . Once cooked, cut the asparagus stems into rings and keep the tips whole . Melt the butter in a pan, add the asparagus stalks and cook over high heat for about 5 minutes, then add salt and pepper.
Transfer the cooked stems to a mixer equipped with steel blades and blend them to reduce them to a puree, then add 3/4 of béchamel and blend again to obtain a smooth and homogeneous cream .
Let's stuff and assemble the crepe: spread a spoonful of asparagus cream on the surface of each crepe , sprinkle with grated Gruyere cheese and close the crepe by rolling it up on itself .
Take a large baking dish, grease it with butter and place the stuffed and rolled crepes . After arranging all the cracks, sprinkle the surface with the leftover béchamel and decorate with the asparagus tips kept aside .
Finally, add the grated Parmesan cheese and black pepper . Turn on the grill mode and bake everything for 5-10 minutes, until the béchamel begins to brown. Take your asparagus crepes out of the oven and serve them piping hot !
Asparagus crepes can be stored in the refrigerator for about 2 days. If you used fresh asparagus, you can freeze the crepes before putting them in the oven and cook once thawed. You can keep the crepe dough for a maximum of 12 hours in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap.
If the asparagus is not in season, you can follow the same procedure to make an artichoke, mushroom or spinach cream ... the result will still be delicious!

