name:
Cod fritters
ingredients:
Desalted cod: 1lb(450 g)
Water: 2cups(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(100 g)
Rice flour: ½cup(50 g)
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: 1pinch
Marjoram: 2sprigs
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the batter resting time (about 20 minutes)

instructions:
Sweet or savory, fritters are always delicious! Loved by adults and children, they are gladly enjoyed at any time of the year. Cod fritters are truly irresistible: the taste of these warm and fragrant morsels is simply the best. A rustic preparation for an alternative dish to fried cod, in which a delicate batter preserves the unique taste of cod cubes. Prepare them in abundance and fry them on the spot ... their scent will attract all your guests to the kitchen and it will be difficult to get them to the table. These cod fritters are like cherries: one leads to another!
To prepare cod fritters , start with cleaning the cod. Make sure your cod has already been desalted, otherwise you can do it yourself. At this point, remove the skin from the fillet, using a very sharp knife and sliding it parallel to the meat . First cut the piece of fish into strips and then cut it into cubes and chop it with a knife .
Once coarsely chopped, transfer it to a small bowl and add marjoram leaves . In another bowl, sift the two flours together and add the brewer's yeast .
Pour iced water slowly and whisk , until you get a smooth and homogeneous batter . Add the cod and mix everything .
Add ground black pepper and a pinch of salt if necessary. Wrap with plastic wrap and let the dough rest for about 20 minutes in a cool place. Then, heat the oil for frying in a large pan until it reaches a temperature of 345 °F (175°C). You can measure the temperature with a kitchen thermometer. Once the oil is hot, create some balls with the mixture
and dip them in the boiling oil . Fry few pieces at a time for about 6-7 minutes, turning them often. When they turn golden brown , drain them on a tray lined with absorbent paper . Continue frying until the dough is finished and serve your cod fritters still hot!
It is advisable to consume the freshly prepared cod fritters immediately. It is not advisable to store them in the refrigerator as fried food will lose its fragrance.
Try adding some pitted and chopped black olives or dried tomatoes: they will be even more delicious!

