name:
Coconut shrimps
ingredients:
Shrimps: 2lbs(1 kg)
Rice flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Coconut flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Eggs: 3
Fine salt: to taste
Soy milk: ½cup(100 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 1cup(200 g)
Lime juice: 2tsp(10 g)
Triple concentrated tomato paste: 2tsp(10 g)
Thai red curry: 1tsp(5 g)
Peanut seed oil: 1quart(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Are batter and tempura your passion? Then you should definitely try coconut shrimps ! With this recipe you will discover how to bring this tasty crustacean to the table, enhancing its goodness in a simple and original way. Shrimps are served with a unique breading, prepared with coconut flour, for a sweet and crunchy dish! The result will be a second course with an exotic taste, perfect also for an alternative finger food appetizer. In addition, the three accompanying sauces go perfectly with the delicate taste of the shimps: fake mayonnaise , made without eggs but with soy milk instead, is the great protagonist! Season it as you prefer, using paprika, garlic, ketchup or worcester sauce. At Giallozafferano, we have decided to give an ethnic touch with red Thai curry , and for those who prefer more delicate flavors, tomato paste ! What are you waiting for? Try dipping your shrimp and choose the sauce that's right for you!
Enjoy these additional recipes too:
To make the coconut shrimps , start by preparing the accompanying sauces. In a mixer bowl, pour seed oil , soy milk , and the squeezed and filtered lime juice .
Add a pinch of salt and blend everything until the mixture thickens. Divide the sauce obtained into 3 bowls . Leave one natural (it will be your fake mayonnaise) and flavor the other two. In one, add the tomato paste ,
stirring with a teaspoon in order to mix everything well . Let's prepare the second sauce, adding red Thai curry to the last bowl and mix everything: your 3 sauces are ready .
Now let's clean the shrimps (alternatively you can use the prawns): remove the heads by applying a slight pressure with your hands between the head and the body . Remove the legs and extract the meat from the shell , but without detaching the tail.
Eliminate the intestine with the help of a toothpick or the tip of a small knife . Then equip yourself with 3 trays: in the first pour rice flour, in the second break and beat the eggs and in the third place coconut flour. Once beaten, salt the eggs to taste and dip each shrimp in rice flour .
Dip the shrimps in the beaten egg and finally in the coconut flour . Pour the seed oil in a high-sided pan and cook until it reaches a temperature of 340- 350°F (170 -180°C) (check with a kitchen thermometer) .
Dip the shrimps in the boiling oil and let them fry for 1 minute . Always fry a few at a time, so that the oil maintains the right temperature. When they turn golden brown, take the prawns out and drain on a tray covered with absorbent paper . Transfer the coconut shrimps to a dish . Your coconut shrimps are ready to be served hot, accompanied by the delicious sauces!
It is recommended to consume coconut shrimps right away. Freezing is not recommended.
Keep the egg-free mayonnaise in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, for a maximum of 4-5 days. You can freeze the mayonnaise and defrost it as needed.

