name:
Spinach and ricotta cannelloni
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: ¾cup(100 g)
Eggs: 1(55 g)- medium
Spinach: 0.5lb(250 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ⅔cup(150 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: ½cup(50 g)- grated
Nutmeg: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Whole milk: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅓cup(37 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Nutmeg: to taste
Black pepper: 1pinch
Grana Padano PDO cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + resting time for the egg pasta (approx. 1 hour)

instructions:
What makes spinach and ricotta cannelloni such a tantalizing dish? Is it its heartwarming simplicity? The harmony of fresh homemade pasta paired with a rich filling? The golden top of the savory baked béchamel sauce? Or perhaps it evokes memories of home, reminiscent of cherished family Sunday dinners? We've pondered this, but it's challenging to pinpoint just one reason: each element contributes to making this dish a true Italian classic loved by both the young and old. It's perfect for vegetarian options or special gatherings!
Check out more versions of cannelloni:
To make the spinach and ricotta cannelloni, start by making the egg pasta. Pour the flour into a bowl, setting a little aside. Lightly beat the egg , add to the bowl, and then work the mixture with your hands to combine all the ingredients . Now transfer the dough to a pastry board and keep working it , adding the flour you set aside as needed.
Once you have a smooth, even dough that’s firm and elastic, shape it into a ball . At this point, wrap the dough in plastic wrap and leave to rest for around one hour in a cool, dry place so that it develops the right elasticity. While the dough is resting, turn to the spinach. Pour the oil into a pot, add the garlic, let it brown and then remove it. Wash and drain the spinach well, then add it to the pot .
Season with salt and let it cook, covered, for around 5 minutes, until the spinach has wilted . Once cooked, let the spinach cool. Meanwhile, prepare the béchamel sauce. First, warm the milk. Then add the butter to another pot and let it melt completely. Now sift the flour and, once the butter has melted, add it to the butter and stir vigorously. After a couple of minutes, you’ll get a hazelnut-colored roux. Remove the pot from the heat for a moment and slowly pour in the hot milk .
Keep stirring and season the béchamel with a pinch of salt and pepper and some grated nutmeg . Continue to cook the béchamel over medium heat for 5-6 minutes until you get the desired consistency, then transfer to a glass bowl and cover with plastic wrap . The spinach will be cool by now; transfer to a cutting board and chop roughly with a knife .
Place the chopped spinach in a large bowl, add the ricotta , stir with a fork, and then add the eggs . Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg and stir to combine. Finally, add the grated cheese .
Stir the ingredients together well . Now transfer this mixture to a pastry bag and put it in the fridge until you’re ready to use it. Take your egg pasta dough that’s rested and developed the right elasticity, and divide it in two . Roll each portion of dough through a dough sheeter to number 8 so you get a sheet about the thickness of a nickel coin (2 mm). If you don’t have a dough sheeter, you can roll out the dough by hand using a lightly floured rolling pin.
Cut the sheet into rectangles measuring 3½x5½ inches (9x14 cm) , taking into account the length of your baking dish. Next, blanch your pasta rectangles one at a time in boiling, slightly salted water , for about 1 minute each. Drain and transfer to a tray covered with a clean kitchen cloth . Be sure to lay the pasta out perfectly, without the rectangles overlapping each other. If you’d like, you can also run them under cold water to stop the cooking process.
Place around 3.5 oz (100 g) of filling in the middle of the pasta, using the pastry bag . Then roll the pasta up onto itself to form a cylinder . Now spread 2 heaping spoonfuls of béchamel in a baking dish .
Arrange your cannelloni in the dish and cover with the remaining béchamel , distributing it well .
Sprinkle with the grated cheese and bake in a conventional oven preheated to 390°F (200°C) for around 15 minutes. Then switch to broiler mode at 450°F (230°C) and cook for another 5 minutes until a golden crust has formed on top . Your spinach and ricotta cannelloni are now ready to be served piping hot !
You can keep your spinach and ricotta cannelloni in the fridge for 1-2 days in an airtight container. You can freeze the cannelloni either before cooking them, and then defrost in the fridge and cook in the oven, or after cooking them, and then defrost in the fridge and reheat in the oven.
For a more original filling, try using chard instead of spinach, and for an even crispier crust, sprinkle with Grana Padano or grated caciocavallo cheese!
“My dear Albina, I am sorry to give you a great pain. But I have a sudden passion for can-nel-lo-ni. You need to have cannelloni ready at any time of day or night. Cannelloni! Cannelloni! Thank you!” This is the note that the poet Gabriele D’Annunzio left for his cook, urging her to frequently make cannelloni. Even a connoisseur like him couldn't resist the delicious richness of this dish!

