name:
Desert rose cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1cup(125 g)
Almond flour: 1 ¼cup(125 g)
Corn flakes: 3.5oz(100 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Butter: ½cup(180 g)- at room temperature
Baking powder: 1 ¾tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Vanilla extract: to taste
Corn flakes: to taste
Powdered sugar: 

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 22 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + dough resting time

instructions:
Desert rose cookies are tasty treats that get their name thanks to their unusual shape that recalls the flowers of the same name. A sweet copy of nature, these appealing and delectable cookies also recall Carnival roses, the fragrant little fried dough flowers eaten around this holiday. Once the desert rose dough is ready, the cookies get a crunchy cornflake coating. This is the fun little trick that gives them the irregular profile they share with the eponymous flowers. The result is an amazing combination of textures: Crispy on the outside with a crumbly almond shortbread on the inside, these little homemade cookies will win you over with just one bite. Once you put these delicious sweet treats out on the table, they won’t last for long!
To make the desert rose cookies , put the room-temperature (so fairly malleable) butter in a bowl along with the sugar , salt , and vanilla extract , and stir with a spatula until you get a creamy mixture.
Add the eggs one by one (4(. Sift the flour , then add this to the bowl and stir to combine .
Next, sift the baking powder into the bowl , followed by the almond flour and crumbled cornflakes . Stir again to combine.
Take a spoonful of dough and dredge in whole cornflakes , turning the dough so that it’s covered, and compacting it slightly .
Repeat these steps until you’ve used up all the dough, transferring the little raw cookie balls to a tray as you make them. Once all the balls are formed, place the tray in the fridge for around 20 minutes before baking the cookies. Arrange the desert rose cookies on a sheet pan lined with parchment paper and bake in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C), for around 15 minutes. When you take them out of the oven, they’ll seem slightly undercooked but, once cooled, they’ll be perfect! Sprinkle your desert rose cookies with powdered sugar before serving.
Keep the desert rose cookies in a cookie tin or airtight container for up to 2-3 days. You can freeze them before baking and keep them in the freezer for up to one month.
Try changing up the dough by using hazelnut flour and a pinch of cocoa powder for an alternative version!
These cookies also get their name from the yellow- and ocher-colored mineral formations made up of gypsum crystals, which form under certain climatic conditions, particularly in deserts.

