name:
Bread fritters
ingredients:
Stale bread: 7oz(200 g)
Whole milk: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(60 g)- grated
Eggs: 1- medium
Garlic: 1clove
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 1 ⅔tsp(7.5 g)
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
What can you do with stale bread? Here’s one idea: bread fritters ! A tasty anti-waste recipe to serve as an antipasto or to accompany a drink in the evening. These little fried bread balls get their tasty flavor from Parmigiano Reggiano DOP cheese, garlic, and parsley, and they’re super easy to make... Adjusting the amount of milk based on the kind of bread you use will give you a fairly firm mixture to immerse in hot oil, and in just a few minutes you’ll have fragrant, golden bite-sized bread fritters ! We’ll even go so far as to bet that once you’ve tried these fritters, you’ll never look at stale bread in the same way again.
To make the bread fritters , first heat the milk in a saucepan , then cut the dry bread into small cubes . Transfer the bread cubes to a bowl and pour the hot milk over them .
Stir with a spoon and leave to rest for a few minutes, covered with plastic wrap. In the meantime, remove the germ from the garlic clove and then finely chop the garlic and parsley (5-6).
Break up the milk-soaked bread using your hands , then add salt, pepper , and the chopped garlic .

Now add the parsley , the grated Parmigiano cheese , and the egg .
Next, add the baking powder and stir to combine . Meanwhile, heat the seed oil in a pot, then take a spoonful of the bread mixture .
Shape the mixture into a ball with your hands, or immerse the mixture in the oil using another spoon . Fry a few balls at a time until golden, ensuring the oil temperature doesn’t go down too much . Drain the bread fritters on paper towel and enjoy while still hot !

These bread fritters are best eaten immediately after frying them.
The amount of milk may vary depending on the bread you use; adjust it based on the consistency of the bread mixture, which should be soft but not overly so.

If you like, you can swap the parsley for rosemary or marjoram.

