name:
Baked fennel with potatoes and onion
ingredients:
Fennel: 2lbs(860 g)
Potatoes: 0.75lb(350 g)
Red onions: 1
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(50 g)
Sage: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Looking for a tasty fennel-based side dish? Try our baked fennel with potatoes and onion , a béchamel-free version of fennel au gratin that’s just as delicious and definitely lighter! A great alternative to the usual fennel in salads or pan-fried fennel, the fennel in this recipe is flavored with a rustic breading made using breadcrumbs and the fennel fronds, making it an anti-waste recipe that will allow you to use the scraps that are usually thrown away. The ideal accompaniment to both meat and fish dishes, baked fennel with potatoes and onion will even go down well with those who aren’t too keen on veggies thanks to a flavor that’s simple, genuine, and also very tantalizing!
To make the baked fennel with potatoes and onion , first clean the fennel: Divide in half, remove the tough middle part , and put the fronds aside, then cut the fennel into pieces around .15 inch (4 mm) thick . Peel the potatoes and cut into pieces around .11 inch (3 mm) thick , too.
Next, trim and peel the onion and cut it lengthwise . Place the sliced fennel in a bowl together with the onion and potatoes .
Dress with oil and salt, then mix with your hands to coat the vegetables evenly . Arrange the vegetables in a fairly large baking pan and cook in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for 20-25 minutes .
Meanwhile, prepare the breading: Pour the breadcrumbs into a bowl, then add the fennel fronds, chopped roughly , and salt and pepper . Once the cooking time has elapsed, take the vegetables out of the oven and turn them over with a wooden spoon .
Sprinkle over the breadcrumb mixture and add a few sage leaves . Place the vegetables under the broiler for 5 minutes or until they’re golden. Your baked fennel with potatoes and onion is ready to be served !
Baked fennel with potatoes and onion can be kept in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
It can be frozen after cooking.

Baked fennel with potatoes and onion is a great side dish, but it can also be turned into a tasty filling for savory pies and tarts, or even calzones!

