name:
Pistachio spread
ingredients:
Pistachios: 2.75oz(80 g)- peeled
White chocolate: 4.66oz(130 g)
Vegetable oil: ¼cup(50 g)- grapeseed
Fine salt: ¼tsp(1 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus resting time (approx. 12 hours)

instructions:
You can eat it in the morning on a slice of toast, spread it inside a fragrant croissant, or use it to personalize a whole array of desserts – pistachio spread is a real treat! And it’s so easy to make at home using Andrea Tortora’s recipe. But, to get a spread that really lives up to everyone’s expectations, the most important thing is to choose the right pistachios. They must be green, unsalted, unroasted, and of the highest quality: This is the only way your cream spread will have that intense flavor. To give it the right sweetness and special creaminess, we’ve added melted white chocolate and grapeseed oil – a select type of oil made by pressing the seeds of grape berries – to the pistachio paste. Don’t worry if you can’t find it, though – any delicately flavored oil will work perfectly!
To make the pistachio spread , pour the peeled pistachios onto a baking sheet . Roast them in a conventional oven preheated to 365°F (185°C) for 10 minutes, then remove from the oven and let them cool . Meanwhile, chop the white chocolate coarsely and transfer to a bowl .
Melt the chopped chocolate in a bain-marie or the microwave . Once the pistachios have cooled, transfer them to a food processor . Add a pinch of salt .
Pulse the pistachios until finely ground into a flour . Add a small amount of the grapeseed oil and pulse again until you get a creamy purée . To make it easier, use a spatula to scrape down the sides of the food processor bowl every so often. It will take around 5-6 minutes. Be sure that the paste doesn’t get too hot – it should never go above 113°F (45°C), which is why it’s important to stop the food processor often. If needed, let the paste rest in the fridge for a few minutes and then pulse again.
Once it’s ready, transfer the paste to a bowl , add the white chocolate , and stir vigorously until you have an even mixture .
Pour in the rest of the grapeseed oil and continue to stir until you have an even mixture . Now, transfer this mixture to a bowl that’s been chilled in the freezer, with any condensation wiped away .
Keeping an eye on the temperature, stir until the mixture has reached 72°F (22°C) . Once the mixture has reached this temperature, it will condense into a creamy spread . Let it rest for 12-14 hours at a temperature between 72°F and 75°F (22°-24°C). Your pistachio spread is ready to be enjoyed !
This pistachio spread can be stored at 68°F (20°F) for around 6 months. Don’t keep it in the fridge or near heat sources.
Grapeseed oil is obtained from the seeds of grape berries and is a very valuable and delicate oil that doesn’t leave an aftertaste. You can substitute it with a delicate olive oil with a neutral flavor, although we advise against using extra virgin oil. To peel the pistachios easily, blanch them in water for a few seconds, then peel them by hand.

