name:
Stracchino della duchessa
ingredients:
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Ladyfingers: 1lb(400 g)
Rum: 1tbsp(15 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Coffee: 1 ⅓cup(300 g)
Sugar: 3tbsp(40 g)
Dark chocolate chips: 3tbsp(30 g)
Almond slices: ⅓cup(30 g)
Eggs: 2
Unsweetened cocoa powder: ⅓cup(30 g)
Water: ¼cup(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + the rest time in the freezer (about 3 hours)

instructions:
Stracchino della duchessa is a refined semifreddo dessert, made with a pate à bombe, or a cream with semi-pasteurized eggs, whipped with hot sugar syrup. Flavored with chocolate chips, cocoa and almonds, this delicious dessert is prepared in a loaf pan covered with ladyfingers dipped in coffee and liqueur. It is because of this particular elongated shape that we call it stracchino, similar to the one of the stracchino cheese. The origin of the stracchino della duchessa is uncertain, broadly speaking it comes from the provinces of Parma, Modena and Mantua, where it is said that a noblewoman invented this refined recipe.
To make stracchino della duchessa , start with the preparation of pate à bombe: in a planetary mixer fitted with a whisk, place the eggs and 3 tbsp (40 g) of sugar , whip the ingredients until the mixture is light and fluffy. Meanwhile, pour the water into a saucepan and add the remaining sugar .
place over the heat and bring to 250°F (121°C) (monitor the temperature with a food thermometer). When the syrup has reached the indicated temperature, pour it slowly into the planetary mixer where you whipped the eggs with sugar . Continue whisking until completely cooled. Meanwhile, pour the mascarpone cheese into a bowl ,
add a spoonful of pate à bombe and mix. Then incorporate the rest of the pate à bombe, mixing from the bottom up. Divide the mixture in two bowls : add cocoa powder to one half
and almond flakes . Add chocolate chips to the other half . Grease and line a 11"x4" (28 x 11 cm) loaf pan with parchment paper.
Let's move to the ladyfingers: prepare the coffee with a mocha (about 6 cups), pour it in a large baking dish, add sugar to taste . Add 1 tbsp of rum while the coffee is still hot and let it cool. Dip the ladyfingers one at a time
and place them on the bottom and on the edges of the loaf pan . Take the two bowls with pate à bombe and transfer them in two disposable pastry bags. Cut at the tip out and create a first layer with the darker pate à bombe and then with the lighter one
taking care to leave about .4" (1 cm) from the edge . Cover the surface of stracchino with other ladyfingers soaked in the coffee sauce . Place stracchino della duchessa in the freezer for at least 2-3 hours: the cake must be very cold, turn it upside down on a serving plate and remove the mold
Sprinkle your stracchino della duchessa with dark cocoa powder and almonds flakes . And this delicious dessert is ready to be brought to the table .
Keep stracchino della suchessa in the freezer for a maximum of 1 month.
If you don't have a loaf cake mold, you can use glasses, alternating the layers of cream with soaked ladyfingers. For the dipping sauce, as an alternative to rum you can use marsala or orange liqueur.

