name:
Cream and strawberry dessert
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(100 g)
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- cold
Eggs: 2(110 g)
Strawberries: 7oz(200 g)
Heavy cream: 2cups(500 g)- cold
Sugar: 1cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 30 mins in the fridge for the shortcrust pstry and at least 3 hours for the dessert in the freezer

instructions:
Give us some frothy whipped cream along with some fresh and succulent strawberries, and we'll give you a finger-licking spoon dessert. A velvety and candid cream enveloped by two crunchy layers of crumble: our inviting cream and strawberries dessert will win you over in all its exquisite simplicity. Served in elegant single-portion cubes, this delicious strawberry dessert is the perfect end to a spring meal, the season symbolized by these sweet, scarlet fruits which abound on our tables, inspiring appetizing desserts and majestic cakes, like the one with mascarpone and strawberries. Let summer blossom on your tables, with this fragrant and elegant cream and strawberries dessert !
To make cream and strawberries dessert , start by preparing the shortcrust pastry for the crumble: place the flour, powdered sugar and cold diced butter in the mixer . Blend at a medium speed until sandy in consistency. Now add the eggs and continue to blend at a medium speed.
When ready, place the resulting dough on a worktop sprinkled with flour , shape into a ball and cover with plastic wrap ; leave it to rest in the refrigerator for at least half an hour. Once the resting time is up, preheat the static oven to 356°F ( 180 °C), line a baking tray with parchment paper and grate the previously prepared shortcrust dough using a thick grater , or blend in the mixer.
Spread the grated shortcrust dough over the baking tray and bake for 20 minutes. Once the 20 minutes are up, remove the tray from the oven, delicately crumble the shortcrust pastry by hand and bake for another 10 minutes so that the crumble turns nice and golden. Once baked leave it to cool , then crumble some more by hand.
Now wash, dry and cut the strawberries into pieces ; place the thoroughly chilled cream in a bowl, straight from the refrigerator , and beat with an electric whisk, gradually adding the powdered sugar .
Once firm, add the strawberry pieces and stir them in . Now you're ready to compose the dessert: line a tray with parchment paper and place a 10x7 inch bottomless rectangular mold in the middle. Distribute half of the crumble on the bottom , be sure to create a nicely compact layer; pour the cream over it and even it out with the back of a spoon.
End with another layer: distribute the remaining crumble to cover the entire surface . Place the dessert in the freezer and leave to cool for at least 3 hours. Once the time is up and the dessert is thoroughly frozen, gently heat the sides of the mold with a baking torch to make it easier to remove the dessert. If you don't have a baking torch you can use a hairdryer, or wait 2-3 minutes before running a knife blade along the edge to make it easier to remove the dessert from the mold .
Delicately lift the mold, be careful not to ruin the dessert . Cut the dessert into cubes : with these amounts we obtained 12 portions; leave the cream and strawberries dessert at room temperature for around 10 minutes, then it will be ready for you to enjoy !
Cream and strawberries dessert can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
You could also grate some dark chocolate onto the surface of this dessert, and you could flavor the cream with the seeds of a vanilla bean. For the crumble base you could make a traditional crumble by following the steps you'll find in cherry crumble.

