name:
Chocolate pudding with strawberries and cream
ingredients:
Butter: 10 ½tbsp(150 g)
Dark chocolate: 1cup(180 g)
Sugar: 1cup(160 g)
Whole milk: 3 ⅓cups(800 ml)
Type 00 flour: ⅔cup(80 g)
Heavy cream: 1cup(200 ml)
Strawberries: 7oz(200 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note Plus at least 2 hours to cool the pudding in the refrigerator

instructions:
Chocolate pudding with cream and strawberries is a mouth-watering soft dessert that you can prepare well in advance and keep in the fridge until it is served with whipped cream and strawberries. Made with milk, flour, sugar, butter and dark chocolate, chocolate pudding is simple to prepare and always appreciated by everyone, young and old. Chocolate pudding can be divided into single portions or poured into a single mold: in this case you bring to the table an impressive cake!
To make the chocolate pudding , first roughly chop the dark chocolate . Pour the milk into a small pan and heat it ; in the meantime, put the butter cut into pieces in another saucepan, melt over low heat and add the sugar .
Add the chopped dark chocolate and mix with a whisk. When the chocolate is melted, add the sifted flour , a little at a time, and keep mixing well .
Pour the boiling milk all at once into the chocolate mixture and cook the mixture over low heat, stirring constantly, until it thickens (8-9). Let it simmer for 5 minutes and turn off the burner.
Pour the pudding into a single mold , let it cool and put it in the fridge and cool for at least two hours. Meanwhile, whip the cream and slice the strawberries. When the pudding is firm, place it on a serving plate and decorate with tufts of whipped cream on the sides and top before garnishing with strawberry slices as you like! Now you have your chocolate pudding with cream and strawberries !
Store the chocolate pudding in the fridge for 3-4 days, covered with plastic wrap. You can prepare it a few days beforehand and decorate it just before serving.
You can flavor the chocolate pudding with a few drops of liqueur to add to the mix or you can brush the mold with your favorite liqueur before pouring the pudding into it. Instead of strawberries you can use your favorite seasonal fruit. If you use a non-stick mold, you should not have any problems removing the pudding: the secret is to let it set a long time in the fridge. If you really cannot get it out, dip the mold in hot water for a couple of seconds and then remove it. If you want to make individual portions, you can fill eight ½-cup (125 ml) molds with this amount.

