name:
Fried paccheri
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 12
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 3oz(100 g)
Ricotta di bufala cheese: 1cup(200 g)
Pecorino cheese: ½cup(50 g)- (for grating)
Milk: 3tbsp(40 g)
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Tomato purée: 1cup(250 g)
Shallot: 0.25oz(5 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Water: 1tbsp(20 g)
Eggs: 2
Whole milk: 1tbsp
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(100 g)
Vegetable oil: 4cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Excellent when served as finger food at a buffet or with drinks, fried paccheri will undoubtedly impress your guests. Simple to prepare, they draw inspiration from a Neapolitan recipe. In Naples, where they're known as schiaffoni , they are typically filled and fried, becoming a treat for the palate. Due to their large size and robust consistency, paccheri is the ideal pasta shape for a rich filling, which can be meat-based, as seen in recipes like paccheri filled with sausage and mushrooms, fish-based, or vegetarian, as showcased in this recipe. The creaminess of ricotta cheese pairs wonderfully with the distinct flavor of pecorino cheese, and savor the cascade of melted mozzarella. For that perfect crispy finish, we've chosen a double egg and breadcrumb coating. Are your friends on their way? For a unique touch, serve your fried paccheri in glasses, with a touch of tomato sauce at the bottom and garnish with a basil leaf. Be sure to make plenty of fried paccheri ; they're so morish that they'll vanish in no time!
Take a look at these other recipes:
To prepare fried paccheri start by making the sauce. Finely chop the shallot and sauté in a drizzle of oil on a medium flame , add the tomato puree and water , stir and leave to cook on a low flame for around 20 minutes.
Prepare the filling in the meantime. Finely chop the mozzarella and place it in a bowl, together with the ricotta cheese . Now add the salt, pepper and grated pecorino cheese .
Roughly chop the basil and add to the ricotta cheese mixture , then add the milk and stir thoroughly with a spoon to mix all the ingredients together .
Cook the paccheri in abundant boiling water salted to taste and drain them 5 minutes before the end of the cooking time . Drain, place them on a clean cloth and leave to dry .
In the meantime place the ricotta cheese mix in a pastry bag and use it to fill your paccheri . Once you have filled all the paccheri , prepare the breadcrumb coating. Beat the eggs in a bowl .
Add the salt, the milk, and beat some more . Now dip each pacchero in the egg and then in the breadcrumbs .
Repeat to create a double coating, by dipping each pacchero in the egg and then in the breadcrumbs once more . Continue until all the paccheri are coated, then place them on a tray . Heat the seed oil and check to make sure it reaches 338°F, using a kitchen thermometer. Once at the right temperature, add a couple of paccheri at a time .
Fry for a couple of minutes until nice and golden . Drain the excess oil and place them on some absorbent paper . Serve your fried paccheri nice and hot. Place them in a glass with a little tomato sauce on the bottom and garnish with a basil leaf.
Enjoy your fried paccheri freshly prepared! If you prefer, you can prepare the filling a day in advance and stuff the paccheri just before frying. We don't recommend freezing them.

