name:
No-bake zuccotto
ingredients:
Cream cheese: 4cups(630 g)
Heavy cream: 1cup(225 g)
Novara cookies: 3oz(100 g)
Powdered sugar: 6tbsp(45 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 3tbsp(25 g)
Raspberries: 4tbsp(40 g)
Blackberries: 4tbsp(40 g)
Berries: to taste
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + firming time (2 hours in the freezer or 12 hours in the refrigerator)

instructions:
No one wants to switch the oven on in the summer and we're always looking for a dessert that is easy to make, even when on holiday, when we have far less of our utensils to hand! Today we're going to add to our collection of desserts perfect for the summer, which already includes cookie ice cream cake and Oreo cake, with a very special recipe: the no-bake zuccotto . Unlike classic zuccotto, you won't need any kneaders or whisks to make this no-bake version: a special mold is all it takes, but you could even use a glass bowl in its place. Three different creams alternate to create a rich, articulated and well-balanced flavor...chocolate, wild berries and cream cheese, a dessert that is sweet to the right point, which you'll never grow tired of. You too can prepare no-bake zuccotto, bring it to the table whole and amaze your guests with the well-defined layers and the crunchiness of Novara cookies hidden inside, just waiting to be discovered, bite after bite!
To prepare no-bake zuccotto , start by placing the cream cheese in a bowl . Add the powdered sugar and stir with a turner (or spatula) to obtain a smooth cream .
Now divide the mixture: place around 1 cup of milk in a bowl, 1 cup in another and the remaining part (1 cup) in a third bowl . Place the blackberries and raspberries in a mixer glass and puree them .
Add the puree to the bowl with the most cream and stir to obtain a uniform mixture . Leave to one side and sieve the cocoa in one of the other bowls with the white milk ;
stir to obtain a uniform mixture . Whip the milk separately and divide it into three equal parts, inside 3 bowls (around 1/3 cup each) .
Delicately mix with a spatula from the bottom up and place the wild berry cream in a pastry bag without a nozzle (you can also use a food grade freezer bag, simply tip one of the corners). Now you'll need a 6.5 inch diameter zuccotto mold (or you could use a glass bowl); line it with plastic wrap .
Now take the pastry bag with the wild berry cream and pour it in a spiral motion to cover the entire surface of the mold (16-17). Now even out the cream with the back of a spoon, so that it is even in thickness .
Now place the Novara cookies in the cream vertically, cut them if too long (19-20). Then take the white cream and add it; this time you won't need to cover the entire surface, but you should fill the mold half way .
Now add the cocoa cream too , to fill the mold to the top . Add the last few cookies to cover the entire base .
Cover with plastic wrap and leave to rest so that it can become firm. In the freezer two hours will be enough, otherwise you can store the zuccotto in the refrigerator for 12 hours or until completely firm. Once this time is up, remove the film from the base, place a plate over the mold and turn it over .
Now slide the mold out from under it and delicately remove the film covering the zuccotto . Decorate your no-bake zuccotto to taste, with wild berries and mint leaves, before serving it !
The no-bake zuccotto can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days. Alternatively, it can be frozen for a month.
Alternate the zuccotto layers with granulated nuts and decorate with melted chocolate! If you can't find Novara cookies, you can use ladyfingers that are not too thick, or Pavesini cookies.

