name:
Sicilian buns
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1cup(100 g)
Manitoba flour: ⅔cup(100 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: ½tsp(4 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(120 g)- (room temperature)
Type 00 flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Manitoba flour: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Eggs: 1cup(165 g)
Whole milk: 0.4cup(100 g)
Butter: 1stick(60 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(4 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch(2 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + leavening time

instructions:
Sicilian buns (brioche col tuppo) are the pride and joy of Sicilian patisserie. Soft and delicious, they are enjoyed everywhere on the island, generally served with another typical delicacy, granita , although they also come filled with ice cream. The name of these buns comes from their shape, similar to the traditional low bun once typically worn by Sicilian women, called a "tuppo" in regional dialect. Originally brioches col tuppo were prepared with lard, but the ingredient has since been replaced by butter, for a sweeter and more delicate flavor. There are differences in how it is prepared between eastern and western Sicily; we have tried to be as impartial as possible, while still giving you the chance of bringing the flavors of Sicilian cuisine to your table, starting with the first meal of the day: Sicilian buns (brioche col tuppo) and almond granita, for a delicious and different than usual breakfast.
To prepare Sicilian buns , start by making the dough. Place the milk in a small jug, add the cake yeast and stir to dissolve . Place both flours in a bowl ,
add the yeast dissolved in the milk and start kneading by hand . Place the dough on a work top and continue kneading until compact : this will be your dough.
Place it in a bowl, cover in plastic wrap and leave in the refrigerator for around 12 hours. During this time it should double in volume . Place both flours in the bowl of a planetary mixer fitted with a hook .
Add the dough, breaking it up into pieces by hand and start mixing . Dissolve the cake yeast in the milk
and add it to the planetary mixer bowl . Add the sugar and mix for a few minutes . Now add the eggs one at a time and continue mixing until fully absorbed.
Add the salt and soft butter, gradually . Knead for around 15 minutes to obtain a smooth, soft and very elastic dough .
Place it in a bowl , it will be very moist and soft. You'll still be able to fold it . Cover with a cloth and wait for around 10 minutes before folding and resting, twice more. Lastly, cover with plastic wrap and leave to leaven for 2 hours at room temperature.
Once this time is up, the dough will have leavened . Place it on a work top lightly sprinkled with flour and divide it into 10 x 2.8 oz (80 g) pieces and 10 x 0.5 oz (15 g) pieces .
Roll the larger pieces into balls and arrange them onto two trays lined with parchment paper, be sure to leave enough space between each one . Now shape the smaller pieces and arrange them on a pastry board lightly sprinkled with flour . Wait for 15 minutes.
Now you can shape the brioches. Take the larger ball of dough and press down in the middle with three fingers . Now position the smaller ball inside . Repeat this operation for each bun.
Now beat the yolk and milk together in a bowl . Brush the mix onto the brioches . Leave to leaven for another 30 minutes at room temperature and bake in a static oven preheated to 356 °F (180 °C ) for 25 minutes. Remove from the oven and enjoy your Sicilian buns !
Sicilian buns can be stored in a bag for 1 day at room temperature. Alternatively, they can be frozen once baked.
Some Sicilians say that the dough for should be flavored with the same ingredients added to panettone dough, or with Annurca apple flavor. We suggest you enrich the dough with orange: both the zest or extract of this fruit will do.

