name:
Lemon and shrimp risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 2cups(350 g)
Lemon juice: 1
Lemon peel: 1-
Shrimps: 1lb(400 g)- shelled
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Butter: 2 ¼tbsp(40 g)
White wine: 1glass-
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Chives: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare lemon and shrimp risotto , start by heating a pot filled with water on the stove. As soon as the water comes to the boil, add a pinch of coarse salt . Now add the shelled shrimps and wait a couple of minutes before draining .
Place them on a cutting board. Coarsely chop around half of the shrimps and leave the rest to one side for decorating later. Now remove the zest of half a lemon and chop it with a knife , or grate it. Squeeze the juice from the lemon and leave to one side .
Now prepare the rice. Place 1 tbsp of butter in a pan and when it starts to melt add the rice . Add the rice once the butter has fully melted, so that it does not brown excessively. Stir with a wooden ladle and leave the rice to toast for a few minutes. Once well toasted, add the white wine, simmer and reduce .
Add the lemon juice and stir some more. Wait a few moments before adding a ladle of broth . Continue adding broth when necessary, until the rice is fully cooked . Stir occasionally, so that the rice does not stick to the bottom of the pan.
Once cooked, add the previously coarsely chopped shrimps . Add the lemon zest . Stir some more, season with salt and pepper .
Remove from the heat and add the remaining 1.25 tbsp of butter . Gently stir to cream the risotto, gently moving the pan all the while . Once the risotto is nice and creamy, portion it out onto plates. Once ready to serve, garnish with the remaining shrimps and a little lemon zest. Add a pinch of black pepper, some finely chopped chives, and serve .
We recommend you enjoy the risotto freshly made . Alternatively, you can store it in the refrigerator, in a sealed container for up to one day.
Instead of vegetable broth, make a fish bouillon using the shrimp shells: your risotto will be even more flavorsome!

