name:
Fruit and chocolate puff pastry
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 2oz(460 g)- rolls
Strawberry jam: 4tbsp(40 g)
Dark chocolate: 2oz(80 g)
Bananas: 1
Strawberries: 5oz(150 g)
Eggs: 1
Pumpkin seeds: 2tbsp(20 g)
Granulated sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
A little goes a long way when making something special, especially with a little helper. A shape inspired by nature, all the sweetness of nature and the deliciousness of chocolate for a fairytale snack! Fruit and chocolate puff pastry : a fragrant puff pastry that encases an inviting filling, to be savored while still hot! On the occasion of a children's party or as a quick dessert to end a meal and embellish the center of the table, the wreathe with fruit and chocolate is simple and easy to make, ready to be added to your list of favorites! Try making it with peaches too, for an original single-portion version!
To prepare the fruit and chocolate puff pastry , start by taking a round oven tray, or the base of a 12 inch (30 cm) diameter mold. Cover with a sheet of parchment paper cut to the same size , unroll a sheet of puff pastry and spread the strawberry jam over it with a teaspoon . Chop the dark chocolate, not too finely
Wash and destalk the strawberries , then cut them into slices ; peel and cut the banana into oblique slices, roughly 5 mm in size .
Arrange the chopped chocolates into spokes, create 6 starting from the middle ; distribute the banana slices over it, then the strawberry slices over the banana ones . Place the second disc of puff pastry on top and close it .
Carefully seal by pressing down on the spaces without fruit , then slice into the pastry between one spoke of fruit and the other, starting from around 3-4 cm from the middle all the way out to the edge , now fold a cut corner towards the inside of the slice ;
proceed in the same way with the other part, folding it over and making sure both fit as best as possible . Once the puff pastry wreathe is ready ,
beat the egg , dab it all over the wreathe using a brush , then sprinkle the pumpkin seeds over the middle
and the sugar over the spokes (19-20); bake in a conventional oven preheated to 390 °F (200 °C ) for 25 minutes, on the middle shelf. Once the fruit and chocolate puff pastry is ready, remove from the oven , leave to cool and then serve!
The fruit and chocolate puff pastry is best enjoyed freshly made, after leaving it to cool down. It can be stored for up to 2 days, under a glass cake cloche. Freezing is not recommended.
You can also fill it with other kinds of jams or preserves, and add nuts or granola to taste!

