name:
Lemon cheesecake
ingredients:
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Cookies: 7oz(200 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1lb(500 g)
Cream cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Lemon juice: ½cup(100 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ⅓cup(150 g)
Lemon peel: 2
Heavy cream: ½cup(100 g)
Isinglass: 0.33oz(10 g)
Lemon juice: ⅓cup(60 g)
Powdered turmeric: ¼tsp
Sugar: ½cup(80 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Cornstarch: 1 ½tsp(15 g)
Lemons: 1
Mint: to taste
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Water: 

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 6 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 5 hours in the refrigerator to firm up

instructions:
To prepare lemon cheesecake , start with the base: place the cookies inside a mixer and blend them into crumbs . Now place them inside a large bowl and add the previously melted butter .
Stir with a spoon to obtain a smooth mixture . Now line an 8" cake spring mold (best to use acetate sheets for the edge) and create the cheesecake base with the biscuit mix, by delicately pressing it down with the back of a spoon . Leave the base in the refrigerator to firm up, for around 30 minutes. In the meantime, make the cream. Soak the gelatine in cold water for around 10 minutes .
Squeeze the lemons and filter the juice . Place the ricotta and cream cheese in a bowl and whisk.
Add the grated lemon zest . Stir some more, add the icing sugar and lemon juice , stirring all the while.
Now heat the cream in a saucepan and remove from the heat just before it boils; wring out the gelatine and without returning the pan to the stove, add it to the hot cream , stir quickly until fully dissolved. Leave to cool, then gradually add the cheese mixture , stir until thoroughly incorporated .
Pour onto the solidified cookie base , smooth the surface with a spatula and leave in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours, to firm up. Prepare the glaze just before the 2 hours are up: place the water and sugar in a saucepan .
Add the filtered lemon juice and cornstarch . Now beat with a whisk and bring to the boil. Remove from the heat once it boils, add the turmeric and stir to dissolve it.
Leave to cool , then pour the glaze over the cheesecake and return to the refrigerator for at least another 2 hours to firm up. To decorate, cut the lemon into slices .
Place the water and sugar in a saucepan, bring to a boil, remove from the heat and pour the syrup over the lemon slices .
Leave to infuse until you are ready to decorate the dessert. Once cooled, remove the cake from the mold and decorate with the lemon slices and mint leaves .
Lemon cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. It can be frozen, perhaps divide it into portions and defrost as many slices as you need.
Prepare lemon cheesecake one day ahead so that it is the right consistency when served!

