name:
Cacio e pepe spaghetti with shrimps
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 0.75lb(320 g)
Ground black pepper: to taste
Pecorino cheese: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Shrimps: 12
Lime: 1
Pink peppercorn: 6
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Yellow onions: 1
Butter: 1stick(50 g)
Leeks: 2 ½cups(70 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 6sprigs
White wine: ¼cup(50 g)
Ground black pepper: 4

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Cacio e pepe pasta lovers get ready... Today we're going to prepare a version that is perfect for the summer: cacio e pepe spaghetti with shrimps ! Following on from the success of the version with sea urchins, and the one with mussels, we wanted to try out a new pairing, and the result was outstanding! Raw shrimps, marinated with lime and pink pepper, added a touch of freshness to this typical dish of Rome; the spaghetti cooked in the fish fumet are bursting with flavor. Your summer dinners will never be the same again! But how do you prepare cacio and pepe spaghetti with shrimps ?! Together let's find out step by step...to prepare this delicious gourmet first course!
Discover more delicious Spaghetti recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare cacio e pepe spaghetti with shrimps , start by cleaning the shrimps. Remove the head , the shell and remove the black vein by hand , or with a toothpick.
Don't discard the shrimp scraps because you'll need them for the fumet. Peel an onion and cut it into four pieces ; thinly slice the leek, after removing the tip and green parts. Melt the butter in a large pan, only add the onion when fully melted .
Brown for a minute and then add the leek and the garlic . Coax out the flavors for a few minutes .
Add the crustacean shells and brown for a couple of minutes on high heat, stirring occasionally . Add the white wine, simmer and reduce .
Once the alcohol has evaporated, add the water , covering the shells.?Add the parsley and peppercorns .
Season with salt , without adding too much because the resulting fumet is already quite salty, lower the heat and gently simmer for at least 60 minutes. While cooking, skim the froth from the fumet using a skewer , be sure to rinse it each time to remove any residue. As the fumet simmers away you can prepare the shrimps.
Start by crushing the pink peppercorns with the blade of a knife . Now coarsely chop the shrimps . Place them in a bowl and season with the rind of half a lime .
Add the juice of one lime , the pink peppercorns , a pinch of salt and a drizzle of oil. Now stir thoroughly .
Cover with plastic wrap and place back in the refrigerator . Take the black peppercorns, place them on a cutting board and crush them with a meat tenderizer . Once the time is up, the fumet will have halved in volume .
Filter with a fine mesh colander and try to recover as much liquid as possible . Discard the shells and your crustacean fumet is now ready for use. Add enough water to cook the spaghetti. Bring back to the boil and add the pasta .
Place the crushed peppercorns in a large non-stick pan, toast on low heat and stir with a wooden spoon . Add a couple of ladles of pasta cooking water, simmer and reduce . The starch in the water will cause bubbles to form .
Drain the spaghetti when still very firm to the bite, keep the cooking water hot; add the pasta directly to the pan with the toasted pepper and cook with the condiment. Stir the pasta continuously with some cooking tongs and add one or two ladles of water as required, to create a creamy sauce that envelops the spaghetti. Only add water if required. As the pasta finishes cooking, prepare the Pecorino cream, do not start this step earlier as it would thicken too much. Place around half of the Pecorino in a bowl and add a ladle of pasta cooking water .
Beat energetically with a whisk and add water as required. Now add the remaining amount of Pecorino, save a little to season later. Add a little more water as required: during this step it is important to effectively balance the Pecorino and water to obtain a cream with the right consistency and free from lumps. Once the pasta is fully cooked, add a little more hot water if necessary; before adding the Pecorino cream, briefly stir the cream, placing the bowl over the saucepan with the hot water; use a whisk to stir it while over the steam, to bring the cream to a temperature similar to that of the pasta . As soon as the pasta is ready, remove from the heat and add the Pecorino cream .
Stir with some cooking tongs and add the Pecorino you kept to one side . Continue stirring until the spaghetti is enveloped by the cream. Now twirl the spaghetti into a nest and arrange on a plate .
Add a few shrimps , a little lime zest and serve immediately .
We recommend you enjoy cacio e pepe spaghetti with shrimps freshly made.
Run out of lime? Don't worry, simply replace it with lemon!

