name:
Ricotta and jam tart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(320 g)
Butter: 1stick(185 g)- soft
Brown sugar: ½cup(120 g)
Eggs: 2(95 g)
Lemon peel: ½
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(300 g)
Raspberry jam: 1cup(250 g)
Wildflower honey: 1tbsp(30 g)
Lemon peel: 

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes for the pastry to rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
We've made one or two tarts, that's for sure. From simpler ones with jam, to soft chocolate sponge, and we've fallen in love with each and every one of them. Today we've tried a new way of making one of the most well-known desserts, prepared by grandmothers all over Italy for Sunday lunch. What makes this one different is how the shortcrust pastry transforms: the ingredients are the same, but the butter is whipped and becomes a soft cloud. The result will be a soft shortcrust pastry, which you'll place inside a pastry bag to line your mold with. Once baked it will be unbeatably fragrant! For the filling we've chosen a lemon-flavored ricotta cream and raspberry jam , complete with a rustic decoration befitting a dessert only grandmothers know how to make!
To prepare ricotta and jam tart , start by making the whipped shortcrust pastry. Place the soft and diced butter in a bowl, add the muscovado sugar and the grated peel of half a lemon . Add a pinch of salt
and use a whisk to stir the ingredients together to obtain a smooth cream . Now gradually add the eggs and whisk for another minute.
Add the flour and continue to whisk until fully absorbed .
Stir the shortcrust pastry thoroughly with a spatula to amalgamate it well . Butter a 9 inch mold and place the shortcrust pastry inside a pastry bag with a smooth 0.4 inch (1 cm) nozzle .
Form a spiral inside the mold, to cover the entire surface . Now use the remaining shortcrust dough to make the edge taller, by adding spirals of dough until there is none left (14-15).
Use a damp spoon to impress a decorative pattern along the entire edge of the tart (16-17). Place back in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. In the meantime, prepare the ricotta cream: stir the ricotta in a bowl, add the honey ,
the peel of half a lemon , and stir to amalgamate well . Take the tart base and place the ricotta in the middle of it
then use a spatula to evenly spread it over the entire surface . Now sieve the raspberry jam to eliminate the seeds. Add it to the ricotta
and spread it evenly over the surface . Bake in a static oven preheated to 355°F (180 °C ) for 40 minutes on the middle shelf, until the shortcrust pastry is golden. Remove from the oven, wait for it to cool slightly , remove from the mold and serve the ricotta and jam tart at room temperature .
The ricotta and jam tart can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days.
If you prefer, you can store the shortcrust pastry in the refrigerator for 2-3 days, or freeze it for around 1 month. Simply leave it to defrost and leave it for a couple of minutes at room temperature before using it.
You could use a different kind of jam other than raspberry, like fig or strawberry jam. Or, you could make a chocolate shortcrust by replacing 1 oz (30 g) of flour with 0.7 oz (20 g) of cocoa.

