name:
Yogurt cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ⅓cups(300 g)
Eggs: ½cup(60 g)- (around 1)
Low-fat Yogurt: ½cup(120 g)- white
Sugar: ½cup(90 g)
Baking powder: ¾tbsp(8 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Sunflower seed oil: ¼cup(50 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 22 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Yogurt cookies are the perfect recipe for a sweet, aromatic and flavorsome breakfast. Adults and children will look forward to dipping these delicious donut shaped cookies in a mug of hot milk! We've prepared many a cookie, like the butter, chocolate or apple ones, and without a doubt these are some of the easiest to make! We're sure you already have all the ingredients you'll need at home...all you have to do is put them together to make these yogurt cookies: no need to leave the dough to rest! Let your children help you make these delicious donut shaped cookies, you'll win them over before even baking them! Once in the oven, these yogurt cookies will fill the air with a vanilla and lemon scent that will lift everyone's spirits!
To prepare these yogurt cookies , start by placing the flour , salt and baking powder for desserts in a bowl.
Now add the sugar and the egg . Stir with a spatula
and add the yogurt . Stir some more, add the sunflower oil and continue mixing the ingredients together. Add the seeds from one vanilla pod ,
the lemon zest , and knead with your hands to obtain a homogeneous dough .
Now take around 1 oz of dough , roll it out and join both tips to create a small donut .
Place the cookies onto a tray lined with parchment paper, a few inches apart from each other as they will grow in size when baked . Bake in a static oven at 355°F (180°C) for around 22 minutes. Remove from the oven and leave to cool before arranging them on a plate. Sprinkle with the icing sugar and serve .
Once baked, yogurt cookies can be stored in a tin box for 3-4 days at most.
Add some chocolate drops to the dough! Alternatively, you could dip half of each cookie in some melted chocolate for an even more delicious version!

