name:
Vitello tonnato
ingredients:
Veal: 1lb(800 g)- (eye of round or round steak)
Celery: 1stalk
Carrots: 1
Yellow onions: 1
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: 1cup(250 g)
Water: 4cups( l)
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Cloves: 3
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp
Ground black pepper: ½tsp
Fine salt: 2pinches
Eggs: 2
Tuna in oil: 3oz(100 g)- drained
Anchovies in oil: 3fillets
Salted capers: 2tsp(5 g)
Caper berries: to taste- for decoration

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 6
Cost: High
Note + the meat cooling time

instructions:
To vitello tonnato (prepare cold veal with tuna sauce), start by cleaning the vegetables you'll need to cook the meat. Wash them, peel and tip the carrot, then cut it into pieces . Tip the celery and cut it into pieces too . Peel the onion and cut it in half . Place the ingredients in a bowl and add the whole peeled garlic.
Now clean the meat: remove any cartilage and fat filaments . Place the eye of round, chopped vegetables , the laurel leaf, 2-3 cloves and the black peppercorns in a large pan.
Add the white wine and the water, which should cover all the ingredients . Add two pinches of salt
and then the oil . Switch on the stove and bring to the boil, then remove the foam as soon as it forms on the surface . Put the lid on and lower the flame slightly before leaving to cook for around 40-45 minutes; remember that every lb of meat requires a cooking time of around 30 minutes. The important thing is that the temperature in the middle of the meat cut never exceeds 150 °F ( 65 °C): use a cooking thermometer to check this .
Once you have cooked the meat cut , drain it and leave it to cool thoroughly . Then remove the laurel, pepper and cloves .
Take 1/3 of the resulting broth, simmer and reduce it on a high flame for around ten minutes. The leftover meat broth will be useful for other preparations, like risottos ; once cooked, drain the vegetables in a container . Now prepare the boiled eggs. Place the eggs in a saucepan with abundant cold water. Switch on the stove and as soon as the water comes to the boil, set the timer to 9 minutes .
When boiled, drain the eggs and rinse them in cold water. Peel them once cooled and cut them into 4 pieces . Add the egg slices to the bowl with the vegetables . Add the drained tuna too ,
along with the anchovies in oil and the desalted capers (to desalt them, place them under fresh running water) ; lastly, add a little broth . Use an immersion blender (a classic mixer will also do) and add a little more broth if needed .
Blend into a smooth cream with whatever consistency you prefer . By now the meat should have cooled down. Slice it thinly with a smooth bladed knife . Arrange the slices on a serving dish and pour the cream over them. Lastly, decorate with the caper fruits, some whole and some sliced: your vitello tonnato is ready .
Vitello tonnato (cold veal with tuna sauce) can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days at most, covered with plastic wrap. It is best to store the cream separately. Freezing is not recommended.
Add or replace the vegetables and spices with whatever you prefer, even better if seasonal. If you aren't a fan of anchovies and/or capers, simply leave them out. In some versions mayonnaise is used instead of boiled eggs: try using it by adding as much as you like!

