name:
Squid ink linguine
ingredients:
Linguine pasta: 11oz(320 g)
Squid: 1lb(700 g)- to be cleaned, with the ink sack
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
White wine: 5tbsp(80 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste- finely chopped

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
A classic fish-based first course in impeccable total black style: squid ink linguine is a captivating dish with a sublime taste, perfect for sea flavor enthusiasts. Today, this preparation of humble origin is renowned as one of the most refined and inspired dishes. Black squid ink was once used to season squid for want of anything else, especially by fishermen, intent on wasting as little as possible of these tender mollusks, making a virtue out of necessity. This precious and flavorsome ink has since come to be appreciated as a natural colorant with an intense flavor in culinary preparations, featuring in a number of gourmet reinterpretations, like gnocchi with black squid ink. The recipe for squid ink linguine , in all its elegant simplicity, is a timeless classic of our culinary tradition: discover our tips on how to make it in the best possible way!
To prepare squid ink linguine , bring the water you'll need for cooking the pasta to the boil and add salt. Now clean each squid. Start by making a small and shallow cut on the back, to remove the bone . Open the squid in half and delicately remove the sack containing the black squid ink and leave to one side in a bowl, covered with a damp cloth so that it does not dry out. Repeat with all the other squid.
Remove the head from the body, skin it , cut away the eyes and the middle tooth; leave the part with the tentacles to one side. Before cleaning the last squid, heat a deep saucepan filled with salted water, which you'll need for cooking the pasta. Rinse all the cleaned squid under running water , cut it into strips
and leave the part with the tentacles whole . As soon as you bring the water for the pasta to the boil, add the salt and pasta ; cook for around 8 minutes, or for as long as it says on the packet. Heat the olive oil in a large pan with a peeled garlic clove; remove the clove as soon as it becomes golden
and add the squid ; stir and sautee for 5 minutes, add the white wine , simmer and reduce for a couple of minutes. Add a pinch of salt, then place the ink sacks in the pan
and press down on each one with the back of a spoon to break them open . Stir to flavor the squid . In the meantime the pasta will have finished cooking; drain and add it to the pan with the squid .
Flavor with the fresh finely chopped parsley , stir one last time and serve your linguine pasta with black squid ink right away .
Store your squid ink linguine for no longer than a day in the refrigerator. Freezing is not recommended.
If you are not experienced, buy your squid already cleaned and ask for the ink sack, or buy the ink separately, in which case you'll need 1.23 oz of black squid ink.

