name:
Cream-filled chocolate eggs
ingredients:
Dark chocolate eggs: 4
Condensed milk: 3tbsp(50 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(200 g)
Cornstarch: 3tbsp(20 g)
Powdered sugar: 6tbsp(40 g)
Apricots in syrup: 1
Vanilla bean: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the rest time in the refrigerator

instructions:
What could be better than serving a wonderful chocolaty surprise? Today's recipe is cream filled chocolate eggs , a light-hearted and fun dessert that look like a small open egg, with a colorful and tempting yolk! A dark chocolate egg filled with a soft cream made of milk, powdered sugar and condensed milk, topped by a yolk prepared with the apricot in syrup. You'll achieve a truly surprising effect; a dainty dessert, perfect for celebrating Easter and adding a touch of cheer to your table on this joyous occasion!
To prepare cream filled chocolate eggs , heat the milk in a pan, together with the condensed milk . Cut a vanilla bean open lengthwise, remove the seeds with a knife and add to the milk mixture, together with the bean .
Place the corn starch in another bowl , together with the sieved powdered sugar ; stir the powders, then add to the milk mixture as soon as it starts to boil; beat thoroughly with a whisk to prevent lumps from forming . Continue stirring for a few minutes, until the cream thickens, then remove from the flame.
Place the cream in a container, cover with plastic wrap and leave to cool to room temperature for 20 minutes, then for 30 minutes in the refrigerator. Once the time is up, take the chocolate eggs and tap the upper part with a knife to form a cavity .
Place the cooled cream in a pastry bag without a nozzle, cut the tip off and fill the eggs nearly all the way to the top . Use a shaping ring mold with a 1 inch diameter to form circles, cupping the apricot in syrup , which you'll place in the middle of the cream as the yolk; lastly, you can serve and enjoy your cream filled chocolate eggs in an egg cup .
Store the cream filled chocolate eggs for no longer than 2-3 days in the refrigerator, in a sealed container.
When filling the eggs, remember that the cream must be thoroughly chilled, otherwise the chocolate will melt. If you are not a fan of dark chocolate, you can prepare a delicious milk chocolate version; you can also replace the vanilla bean with a little orange zest or cinnamon, for a truly delicious taste!

