name:
Puff pastry doves
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 16oz(460 g)- rectangular
Whole milk: 2cups(500 ml)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(50 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Egg yolks: 6
Vanilla bean: 1
Eggs: 1
Powdered sugar: to taste
Heavy cream: 1tbsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
What is one of the symbols of Easter? The famous dove and olive branch, without a doubt. In line with tradition, we've decided to prepare these puff pastry doves . These small yet delicious treats are perfect for adding an original touch the most traditional Easter menus and for decorating the table, together with colorful Easter cookies. Made with puff pastry and filled with cream, the puff pastry doves are small sweets that revoke the symbols of Easter. Their dove shape, a symbol of peace and hope, makes these puff pastry treats an original idea for enriching a sweet Easter buffet!
To prepare puff pastry dove s, start by making the pastry cream: heat the milk in a saucepan with half a vanilla bean and its seeds; beat the egg yolk and sugar together in a bowl with a whisk, then add the flour (or you can use corn starch instead). Remove the vanilla bean using kitchen tongues, gradually add the heated milk to the mixture and stir with a whisk. Place the mixture back on the stove and stir continuously until it thickens . Place the pastry cream in a bowl and leave to cool after covering with plastic wrap.
After preparing the pastry cream, take the puff pastry, sprinkle the work top with abundant flour and gently roll the pastry out with a rolling pin . Click here to download the dove-shaped mold, cut it out from stiff material, like cardboard, place it on the puff pastry and cut the doves out by running a knife around the edge of the mold . Once you have cut out the colombine, place them on an oven tray lined with parchment paper and use a brush to dab with an egg beaten with a spoon of cream (or milk) .
After dabbing them with a brush, sprinkle the powdered sugar over the colombine and bake in an oven preheated to 356°F (180 °C) for 20 minutes (for around 15 minutes in a convection oven). Remove from the oven and leave to cool . Once cooled, delicately cut your doves in half .
Place the pastry cream in a star-tipped pastry bag and fill the dove . Close it with the top half of puff pastry and dust with the powdered sugar . Your puff pastry doves are ready , all that's left for you to do now is serve them!
Enjoy puff pastry doves freshly made, or store them in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap, or in a sealed container, for up to one day, after which the puff pastry will lose its crunchiness. You can prepare puff pastry doves a couple of days earlier and store them unfilled and away from humidity, so that they are ready to use.
The filling is always a surprise, so what better excuse for choosing something the children or your guests really love. This could be pastry cream, a chocolate cream, or even some good and simple whipped cream.

