name:
Pasta with zucchini carbonara sauce
ingredients:
Bow tie pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Zucchini: 7oz(200 g)
Egg yolks: 5- (very fresh)
Pecorino cheese: 1cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Pecorino cheese: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Spaghetti alla carbonara : this is the first culinary stop that usually happens on a visit to Rome! Guanciale, Pecorino cheese, and eggs come together with spaghetti – the classic pasta shape – to form a creamy, delicious, time-honored dish. But there’s more than just the traditional way to prepare this dish, meaning you can make a different version every time. We’ve already tempted you with an artichoke and pancetta version. This time, we invite you to try another tasty vegetarian twist that uses bow tie pasta instead of spaghetti, as its shape is perfect for catching the egg and diced zucchini used to give the dish a lighter, more delicate flavor. Pasta with zucchini carbonara sauce is perfect if you’re looking for a flavorful vegetarian appetizer or a meal for your kids – the fun shape of the pasta will mean they won’t even notice the vegetables!
You may also like our other tasty variations of carbonara :
Discover more delicious Carbonara recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the pasta with zucchini carbonara sauce , first wash and trim the zucchini, then cut into sticks and dice . Meanwhile, bring a saucepan full of salted water to a boil, which you will use to cook the pasta. Heat some olive oil in a frying pan.
Add the zucchini and brown for around 6-7 minutes over high heat; they should remain crunchy. Pour the egg yolks and Pecorino cheese into a bowl and whisk .
Add one ladleful of cooking water from the pasta and stir to get a creamy mix . In the meantime, cook the pasta for the time stated on the package .
Season the browned zucchini with salt and pepper, and when the pasta is ready, transfer it directly into the frying pan using a slotted spoon. With the heat off, add the egg yolk and cheese mix .
Stir to combine , then serve the pasta with zucchini carbonara sauce , garnishing the dishes with Pecorino shavings to taste .
We recommend eating the pasta with zucchini carbonara sauce as soon as it’s ready! Not suitable for freezing.
Try replacing the zucchini with other vegetables, such as green beans, artichokes, or eggplant, and if strongly-flavored Pecorino isn’t your cup of tea, just use Parmigiano Reggiano cheese instead!

