name:
Zucchini risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 2 ¼cups(320 g)
Zucchini: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Vegetable broth: 1quart(1 l)
White onions: ½cup(80 g)
White wine: ¾cup(100 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ⅔cup(70 g)- (to be grated)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: - a dash
Mint: 5leaves

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Zucchini are among the most versatile and beloved vegetables that allow us to use their flavor and healthy properties to the fullest! Today we present them to you in their most classic and traditional role: in a creamy and very appetizing risotto! If you add a little butter and grated cheese, the result will really be satisfying: a creamy and succulent zucchini risotto that makes your everyday lunch special and even win over those who turn their nose up at vegetables, both young and old alike... shall we bet?
Start with the vegetable broth when making zucchini risotto. Put a pot of clean, unpeeled, and cut seasonal vegetables on the stove. Salt, add pepper grains, and bring to a boil. In the meantime, clean and finely chop the white onion with a knife . Put in a bowl and move to the stove. Pour a drizzle of oil into a saucepan and add the onion . Cook over low heat for about ten minutes, stirring often: it will help make the onion brown. If the bottom dries out, add very little hot broth .
Turn up the heat and pour in the rice letting it toast for a few minutes while stirring continuously and ensuring that the grains do not burn . As soon as the rice has taken on a lighter color, simmer with white wine until reduced .
Let the alcohol evaporate completely, then add a few ladles of simmering broth . Remember that the risotto should not be mixed much, and the broth should be poured as needed before the rice has completely absorbed it . In the meantime, cut the zucchini, already washed and dried,
and grate them with an extra coarse grater . Halfway through cooking, place the zucchini in the risotto , stir .
and continue cooking . Turn off the heat and add the mint leaves , the black pepper by hand ,
then the butter and grated Parmesan cheese cold from the fridge . Stir and add very little broth to adjust the consistency if needed. Let rest for a few minutes, with the lid on, and then serve your zucchini risotto .
Zucchini risotto can be stored for a few days in the refrigerator, though it will lose its consistency.
Freezing is not recommended for the same reason.
Zucchini risotto as we present it is really delicate; it is best to use perfectly firm organic zucchini, as they have only been off the vine for a very short time and will not have a bitter taste. If you wish to give your risotto an extra hint of flavor, you can blanch the zucchini, grated or brunoise style , at the beginning of the preparation with the onion. Then just toast the rice in an empty pan and, after a few minutes, add the zucchini and onion! For an extra touch of creaminess, mix it with Greek yogurt or robiola cheese!

