name:
Battered zucchini flowers
ingredients:
Zucchini flowers: 15
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste- (for frying)
Water: 1cup(220 g)- (mineral, lukewarm)
Type 00 flour: 1 ⅓cup(150 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1 ½tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: ¾tsp(6 g)
Sugar: ½tbsp(6 g)
Water: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(100 g)
Egg yolks: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + resting time for the classic batter

instructions:
If you’d like to try a delicious appetizer that’s chock-full of wonderful summer aromas, battered zucchini flowers are the perfect recipe for your menu: an ideal dish for a tasty, colorful way to liven up your table with flavor and simplicity!  Fried zucchini flowers have a delicate flavor and are perfect for being stuffed with flavorful fillings, such as burrata cheese and sun-dried tomatoes. But the filling isn’t the only way to put a twist on this dish: Why just limit yourself to one type of batter? Chef Fabio Abbattista presents two variations for you to choose from: a more classic version with a leavened batter and a crispier version with tempura. When they’re ready, you’ll be able to serve your battered zucchini flowers in little paper cones and wow your guests. Can’t decide which version to make? Then just try both kinds of these tasty fried zucchini flowers to find out which one hits the spot for you!
To make the battered zucchini flowers, start by preparing the batter. First, dissolve 1½ tbsp (15 g) of fresh brewer’s yeast, crumbled by hand, in a little room-temperature water taken from the 1 cup (220 g) of water you need for the batter , emulsifying with a whisk. Next, pour the flour into another bowl, add the rest of the room-temperature water , and mix with a whisk until you get a smooth mixture without any lumps .
Then add the brewer’s yeast dissolved in the water , continuing to whisk. Now add ¾ tsp (6 g) of salt and ½ tbsp (6 g) of sugar, mixing again to combine the ingredients, and then cover with plastic wrap . Leave to rest for around 30 minutes at room temperature.
In the meantime, clean the zucchini flowers, starting by gently pulling off the stems . Then, still using your hands, pull off both the external pistils and the internal bud . Repeat these steps with all the zucchini flowers.
After 30 minutes, the classic batter will be well leavened , so now it’s time for the frying. Pour the oil into a pot and heat to a maximum temperature of 340°-350°F (170°-180°C) (use a food thermometer to check). When the oil is almost at the right temperature, put the flowers into the batter , using kitchen tweezers to turn them so they are completely coated .
Next, take each flower out of the batter , allowing the excess to drain off, and then immerse the flowers in the hot oil , only doing a few at a time so the temperature doesn’t go down too much. When the flowers are nice and golden, turn them and cook on the other side, too.
Then, take them out of the oil using a skimmer and place on a paper towel . Season with a pinch of salt and serve your battered zucchini flowers .
For a crispier version, once all of the flowers have been cleaned, as described above, you can make the tempura. Place the egg yolk in a bowl and, beating it with a whisk, add ¾ cup (100g) of flour little by little , and then slowly pour in 1 cup (200 g) of ice-cold water .
Continue to beat until you get a smooth mixture . Immerse the flowers in the batter, turning them so they are completely coated . Heat the oil to a temperature of 340°-350°F (170°-180°C), as indicated above, and fry your battered zucchini flowers , turning them over halfway through .
Once they’re cooked, remove them from the oil using a skimmer and transfer to a paper towel. Season with salt and serve them still hot !
We recommend eating the battered zucchini flowers right away. Freezing or any other kind of storage is not advised, to avoid losing the fragrance.
Be sure to use water that’s really ice-cold for the tempura so there will be a thermal shock during the frying and the flowers will turn out nice and fragrant.


