name:
Pasta with bell pepper sauce
ingredients:
Organic Penne Rigate pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Red peppers: 4cups(400 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Colorful, fleshy, lively... Peperoni (bell peppers) are among the most versatile and popular summer vegetables to enjoy simply as a side dish or stuffed as a hearty meal. Today, however, we tossed them in the pot and then blended them to obtain a delicious sauce enriched with the color and flavor of cluster tomatoes. We chose a dish that would make the peppers the main protagonist, with the addition of only a few fresh basil leaves, but if you prefer, you can add a crunchy note with some pan-toasted breadcrumbs or almonds... Use your imagination to make this pasta with bell peppers sauce different and even better every time!
If you love this recipe, also check out:
To prepare the pasta with bell pepper sauce , boil the water for the pasta. In the meantime, wash the peperoni (bell peppers), remove the cap , cut them lengthwise, and discard the internal seeds , then dice them .
Coarsely chop the cluster tomatoes . Pour a drizzle of oil into a saucepan and fry the unpeeled garlic . Add the diced peperoni (bell peppers)
and the tomatoes , then season with pepper and basil leaves . Cook over medium heat for about 15 minutes, stirring occasionally.
When the bell peppers are cooked, pour the pasta into the boiling water and cook it for the time indicated. In the meantime, pour the bell peppers and tomatoes into a tall container and blend everything using a hand blender .
Transfer the sauce into a pan, or use the same pan in which you cooked the bell peppers , turn the heat to low, add a ladle of the water of the pasta, and then, once the pasta is cooked al dente, drain, and add it directly into the peperoni (bell peppers) sauce .
Mix for a few moments to thoroughly coat the pasta , then transfer it to the serving dishes and season with a few more leaves of fresh basil . Your pasta with bell pepper sauce is ready to be served .
We recommend eating the pasta with bell pepper sauce as soon as it is ready. You can store it for one day in the refrigerator in an airtight container. You can prepare the bell pepper sauce in advance and keep it in the refrigerator for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
You can also choose yellow bell peppers if you prefer and use red or white onions instead of garlic.

