name:
Pasta with zucchini and sausage
ingredients:
Bow tie pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Luganega sausage: 1lb(350 g)
Zucchini: 0.66lb(270 g)
Shallot: ¼cup(40 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Cherry tomatoes: 0.5lb(220 g)
Rosemary: to taste
White wine: ¼cup(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Sausage and zucchini are two very different ingredients, but create a unique flavor when combined! Pasta with zucchini and sausage is the perfect dish for a family lunch: nourishing and quick to prepare, it will satisfy everyone's tastes. The strong flavor of sausage pairs well with the delicate flavor of zucchini and the sweetness of the cherry tomatoes, while rosemary adds a pungent note to the dish. We chose to serve this rich condiment with farfalle, the perfect pasta shape for adding a creative and vibrant touch to any dish. If your vegetable patch is brimming with zucchini then this is the perfect time to make this delicious pasta with zucchini and sausage ! For other summer versions, try sausage and eggplants or sausage and peppers! Or, if you are looking for stronger flavors, then you simply must try pasta with sausage and beer.
To prepare pasta with zucchini and sausage , start by finely chopping up the shallot . Wash and tip the zucchini, cut it into slices and then dice into cubes that are around 0.2 inches in size . Wash the tomatoes and cut them into four pieces .
Now take the sausage, cut into the casing and delicately pull it off by hand . Finely chop the sausage up with a knife and keep separated. Place the oil and shallot in a pan .
Leave to brown for a few minutes, then add the garlic clove , the previously finely chopped rosemary and cook for 2-3 minutes. Add the sausage, stir and cook for another 5-6 minutes approximately.
Add the white wine, simmer and reduce , add the zucchini and the cherry tomatoes .
Add salt and pepper to taste, leave to cook for 10-15 minutes, stir occasionally . In the meantime, cook the pasta in abundant water, salted to taste . Once the condiment is cooked, remove the garlic ,
drain the pasta al dente and add it to the condiment. Stir to mix all the ingredients together and serve your pasta with zucchini and sausage .
Enjoy pasta with sausage and zucchini as soon as it is ready; alternatively, you can store it for 1 day at most, in the refrigerator.
Replace rosemary with another aromatic herb of your choice... mint, thyme or marjoram! What will you choose?

