name:
Strawberry Crumb Cake
ingredients:
Fioretto corn flour: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(220 g)
Almond flour: ½cup(50 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Butter: 1stick(80 g)- (cold from the fridge)
Eggs: 1
Egg yolks: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Whole milk: 1cup(400 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Potato starch: 2tbsp(15 g)
Sugar: 6tbsp(80 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Strawberries: 10oz(300 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare strawberry crumb cake , start by washing the strawberries and coarsely dicing them . Place them in a non-stick pan, add the sugar and the grated peel of a lemon .
Sauté the strawberries for 5-6 minutes, frequently turning them over , then prepare the cream. Place the milk in a saucepan, together with the pulp and seeds of the vanilla bean . Bring to the boil and remove the bean .
Place the egg yolks, the sugar and the potato starch in a bowl and stir. Temper the egg mixture with a little milk and stir.
Add the milk and egg mixture to the saucepan , then cook to thicken it . Place the cream in a bowl , cover with some plastic wrap and leave to cool.
Now make the crumble: place the flour 00 in a bowl, add the almond flour , the corn flour and the sugar .
Dice the cold butter straight from the refrigerator and add it to the dry ingredients ; start to crumble between your finger tips , then add the whole egg and the egg yolk .
Continue to mix rapidly with your finger tips, so as not to heat the dough up too much ; once you achieve a homogeneous yet floury consistency, sprinkle just over half of the mixture into a 9 inch diameter cake mold lined with parchment paper; spread it over the bottom and along the edges using the back of a spoon . Distribute the sauteed strawberries over the crumble base .
Now use a spoon to add the cooled cream you prepared earlier to the strawberries , and sprinkle with the remaining dough to cover the filling . The strawberry crumb cake is ready to be baked in a conventional oven preheated to 355°F (180°C) for 30 minutes (or in a convection oven preheated to 320°F (160°C) , for around 25 minutes).
Once baked, remove the cake from the oven , leave to cool, remove from the mold and place it on a serving dish. Sprinkle the strawberry crumb cake with the powdered sugar and leave to cool before serving .
Strawberry crumb cake can be stored covered in the refrigerator for 2-3 days at most. Freezing is not recommended.
If you want a more summery flavor for your strawberry crumb cake, add some diced nectarine to the filling!

