name:
Pasta with fresh tuna and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Tuna: 4oz(120 g)- fresh
Cherry tomatoes: 7oz(200 g)- red and yellow
Taggiasca olives: 2tbsp(20 g)- pitted
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Basil: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
A quick, delicious and colorful fish-based first course: pasta with fresh tuna and cherry tomatoes , perfect for serving in the summer. Tuna pasta is the go-to for rustling up a quick last-minute dinner, perfect for spaghetti or mezzemaniche. With this dish we're raising the game a little: fresh tuna , gently seared to preserve all its juiciness, with a mind-blowingly tender and succulent result. All this with colorful cherry tomatoes , the same kind used to make the delicious cherry tomato tart! To finish off, paccheri pasta, perfect for fish-based sauces, complete with a grating of lemon peel, which refreshes and enhances the flavor of the fish. A simple yet refined dish that will make those dinners with friends even more special!
To prepare pasta with fresh tuna and cherry tomatoes, start with the latter: wash and cut them in half . Now cut the tuna into strips and then into pieces, each roughly 0.3 inches in size .
Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan; brown the peperoncino and garlic for a few minutes. Now add the tuna and sear for at least 5 minutes on a high flame, stirring frequently all the while ; now add the cherry tomatoes .
Remove the garlic and peperoncino and continue to cook on a medium flame for around 15 minutes. Boil the paccheri pasta in salted boiling water and remove 2 minutes before the cooking time on the packet, so that you can finish cooking them in the pan. Add a little cooking water from the pasta to the cherry tomatoes and tuna .
Now add the olives to the sauce and then the pasta , along with a drop of cooking water and a drizzle of oil .
Leave to cook for a few minutes, then add the pepper, finely chopped parsley and previously shredded basil leaves . Stir well, arrange onto plates and add the lemon peel . Your pasta with fresh tuna and cherry tomatoes is ready to be served .
Pasta with fresh tuna and cherry tomatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for one day at most, but ideally it should be enjoyed freshly made.
Add 1-2 anchovies to the sauce, for an even richer-tasting condiment; if you want a more enveloping texture, add a little tomato puree.

