name:
Vegetables au gratin
ingredients:
Zucchini: 2
Eggplant: 1
Red peppers: 1-
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(20 g)-
Fine salt: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 6tbsp(60 g)- coarsely grated
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2oz(60 g)- for grating
Thyme: to taste
Marjoram: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Very low

instructions:
No meal can be considered complete without a healthy vegetable side dish, but let's admit it: sometimes we simply don't feel like spending all that much time preparing one. With vegetables au gratin there will be no more excuses! Vegetables au gratin are a delicious and versatile recipe for serving with meat or fish-based dishes, or cheeses. The breadcrumb, Parmigiano and aromatic herb coating adds a note of crispness and enriches vegetables au gratin with flavor, so that they bring color and cheer to your table. Prepare this recipe with different types of ingredients: open the refrigerator and let your creativity run wild: simply vary the mix of vegetables for a different side dish every day. In the coldest season of the year, try our roasted cauliflower, broccoli and fennel!
To prepare vegetables au gratin , start by washing the vegetables. Tip the eggplant and cut into 0.28-0.3 inch thick slices lengthwise . Take the pepper, remove the top and seeds inside.
Divide it into 3 large pieces , remove the white strings inside , then press down lightly to flatten. Tip the zucchini .
Cut into 0.2-0.24 inch thick pieces . Line an oven tray with parchment paper and grease it : in this way the vegetables on the bottom will be flavored too. Place them in the tray, it is not a problem if they are slightly overlapping .
Slice the vegetables with a knife and season with salt and oil . Bake in a static oven preheated to 356? for 30 minutes. Prepare the breadcrumb coating in the meantime. Place the grated cheese in a bowl and add the coarsely grated breadcrumbs .
Add the aromatic herbs , salt and pepper. Stir everything together . Remove the vegetables from the oven 30 minutes later .
Add the breadcrumb coating and a drizzle of oil . Cook for another 10-12 minutes, once more at 356?, then move the tray to the top of the oven and switch to grill mode for a couple of minutes until nice and golden. Remove from the oven and serve your vegetables au gratin .
You can store vegetables au gratin in the refrigerator in a sealed container, for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
Don't just stick to zucchini, eggplant and peppers for this dish, you can also add potatoes, onions, tomatoes or your favorite seasonal vegetables. Feel free to replace the aromatic herbs used for the breadcrumb coating: rosemary or oregano are perfect, for example!

