name:
Pasta with asparagus and sausage
ingredients:
Whole wheat Pennette Rigate pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Asparagus: 1lb(600 g)
Sausage: 1lb(400 g)
Leeks: 2oz(80 g)- already cleaned
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(20 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1oz(40 g)- for grating
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
White wine: to taste-

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
He is tall and slender, elegant and crisp. She is short, chubby and biting. A couple on a par with Laurel and Hardy, a love story to give Jessica and Roger Rabbit a run for their money. No, we're not playing Blind Date with Nikki Glaser, today we're pairing up two flavors born to be together, in a highly appetizing first course: pasta with asparagus and sausage ! Sausages make a winning combination, whatever the season, from the coldest of times of the year, perfect paired with pumpkin, to the summer, when it features alongside eggplant! This recipe is perfect for when you want to start using spring ingredients, like asparagus, without turning your back on more succulent and wintry ones. Serve pasta with asparagus and sausage with a glass of white wine and you too can toast to this indivisible couple. Because once you find your soul mate, you'll never let them go!
If you love asparagus, try also these recipes:
To prepare pasta with asparagus and sausage , place a saucepan with abundant water on the stove, bring to the boil and add salt: you'll need it for cooking the pasta in later. Start by cleaning the asparagus. Tip the stalk and use a vegetable peeler to remove the outermost part . Now cut into rather thick slices and cut the tips in half.
Now prepare the sausage: use a knife to cut into the casing and delicately remove it by hand . Press the sausage down lightly on a cutting board , to crumble the inside. Leave to one side for now.
Remove the outermost leaves and tip the leek before finely slicing it ; place it in a large pan where you will have already heated the oil . Leave to brown for 4-5 minutes, add a ladle of hot water and turn up the heat; add the sausage , stir continuously with a spatula or wooden spoon, until nice and brown.
Add the white wine, simmer, and when reduced , add the asparagus . Stir, add salt and pepper to taste, then add a ladle of cooking water ,
turn the heat down, cover with a lid and cook for another 7-8 minutes. In the meantime you will have brought the water to the boil: cook the pasta , drain when firm to the bite and add it to the sauce straight away .
Add the grated cheese , stir and serve your pasta with asparagus and sausage nice and hot !
Pasta with asparagus and sausage can be stored in the refrigerator for up to a day. Freezing is not recommended.
Add some thyme for flavor, or a pinch of chili pepper, to exalt all the flavors of the sausage!

