name:
Spoke pattern apple cake
ingredients:
Fuji Apples: 9oz(250 g)
Whole milk: ⅔cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: ⅔cup(125 g)
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- cold from the refrigerator
Eggs: 3- medium, cold from the refrigerator
Baking powder: 1tbsp(10 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Raw cane sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average

instructions:
Classic and timeless dessert lovers, do not miss our chance to prepare this soft spoke pattern apple cake . It is absolutely one of our favorites: at GialloZafferano we have dedicated many recipes to apple cakes each time adding different flavors and aromas, so we just had to try a butter free, gluten free and light one. An advantage of spoke pattern apple cake is that it requires little time to prepare, literally the same amount of time it takes to be devoured, thanks to the soft vanilla dough and juicy apple slices arranged in a spoke! A delicious and inviting dessert to finish your lunch with, but also a favorite treat served as a snack, as a sweet start to the day at breakfast, or for sharing in the office during an afternoon break. Treat your palate by serving this spoke pattern apple cake accompanied with a scoop of vanilla ice cream!
To prepare the spoke pattern apple cake , start by removing the vanilla seeds from the pod: cut it open lengthwise and remove the pulp with a knife . Leave to one side for later and place the cold eggs , cold butter cut into small pieces ,
add the sugar and vanilla seeds , and last of all, a pinch of salt . Place the lid on the mixer and blend at a medium speed to obtain a homogeneous batter.
Sieve the flour and baking powder in a bowl , then gradually add the powder to the mixture , alternate with the milk .
Continue blending to obtain a homogeneous batter . Now prepare the apples: wash and dry them, cut them in half and then into four wedges; remove the core but not the peel.
Thinly slice each apple quarter using a mandolin . If you do not have a mandolin, use a knife with a sharp blade to obtain thin slices. Butter and flour a 24 cm diameter tray. Now pour in the cake batter and smooth the surface using a spatula or rolling the tray, without banging it against the work top, which would deflate the batter, compromising leavening and baking.
Arrange 4 apple slices on the "cardinal points" of the mold , lightly press down on them so they sink slightly into the batter, continue arranging the other slices along the edge, next to each other, creating a spoke pattern . At the center of the cake you can arrange the apple slices in a rose pattern .
Sprinkle some brown sugar over the cake ; once ready , bake in a conventional oven preheated to 360°F (182°C) for 50 minutes, on the lowest shelf. Once baked, remove from the oven , wait for it to cool, remove from the mold and serve your spoke pattern apple cake, if you prefer, with a scoop of vanilla ice cream!
You store your spoke pattern apple cake under a cake cloche for 2-3 days. Once cooled you can freeze it, even in slices if you prefer.
For this spoke pattern apple cake we used Fujion apples, a very sweet and delicate variety. Alternatively, you can choose sweet and crisp Fuji apples. You can add some powdered cinnamon to the batter instead of vanilla, or if you prefer, some lemon zest, for a touch of flavor.

