name:
Gluten-free ladyfingers
ingredients:
Eggs: 4
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Rice flour: 0.7cup(110 g)
Potato starch: 5tbsp(40 g)
Cornstarch: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Baking powder: 3 ¼tsp(16 g)
Xantana: ¼tsp(1 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Powdered sugar: 2 ½tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the gluten-free ladyfingers, first separate the egg yolks from the whites. Pour the whites into a bowl , add 1/2 cup of sugar , and beat them until very stiff with electric beaters .
In a separate bowl, place the yolks and the remaining 1/4 cup of sugar , then beat with electric beaters until you obtain a light and frothy mixture . Gradually incorporate the stiff egg whites into the yolk mixture a little at a time .
Mix gently from bottom to top with a spatula to avoid deflating them . At this point, gradually sift the dry ingredients into the bowl: rice flour, potato starch , corn starch, baking powder, and xanthan gum .
Mix again gently from bottom to top until you obtain a homogeneous mixture . Transfer the dough into a piping bag with a plain 1/2-inch nozzle, and form sticks about 4-5 inches long on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Dust the ladyfingers with granulated sugar .
Dust them also with powdered sugar , then bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 15 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool . Your gluten-free ladyfingers are ready to be enjoyed !
Gluten-free ladyfingers can be stored in a tin box for one week.
The dough must be used immediately and cannot be stored.
If you wish, you can flavor your gluten-free ladyfingers with the seeds of a vanilla pod or lemon zest.
Xanthan gum is a stabilizer used cold to improve the structure of gluten-free doughs. It can be purchased in well-stocked supermarkets and specialty stores, or online.
For gluten-free recipes, we recommend purchasing only products that show the crossed-out ear symbol on the package, certified gluten-free, recommended by the AIC Italian Celiac Association's directory.

