name:
Mascarpone and chocolate chip tart
ingredients:
Butter: ¾cup(175 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ⅔cups(300 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ⅓cup(150 g)
Egg yolks: 3- (from medium eggs)
Orange peel: 1- (untreated)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Egg yolks: 2- (from medium eggs)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Potato starch: 1tbsp(10 g)
Chocolate drops: ⅔cup(100 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + resting time for the pastry

instructions:
To make the mascarpone and chocolate chip tart , begin by preparing the shortcrust pastry using the sanding method: In a mixer fitted with the blade attachment, add the sifted flour, a pinch of salt, and the butter still cold from the fridge, chopped into pieces . Pulse until you get a very grainy, sand-like mixture . Pour the powdered sugar out onto a pastry board and make a well in the middle. Grate the orange peel into the middle, making sure you only get the zest and not the bitter white pith too .
Add the egg yolks and then the pastry mixture you’ve prepared. Knead everything together quickly for as long as it takes to blend all of the ingredients . Shape the pastry into a smooth, even rectangle, flatten slightly, and wrap in plastic wrap. Place in the fridge to rest for at least half an hour to allow the pastry to firm up .
In the meantime, make the cream. Strain the ricotta into a bowl using a fine-mesh strainer and spatula . Add the sugar and begin mixing using a hand mixer , then add the egg yolks (save the whites to use later),
and the sifted potato starch . Once the mixture is even, turn off the mixer and add the grated orange peel together with the cinnamon .
Begin mixing again with the hand mixer to combine everything , and then add the mascarpone and work until it’s completely absorbed into the cream .
Fold the chocolate chips into the cream using a spatula . Set aside. Take the pastry dough out of the fridge and remove the plastic wrap. Using a rolling pin, hit the surface a little to soften it. Use the rolling pin to roll the dough out onto a lightly floured pastry board, to around ½ inch (1 cm) in thickness . Arrange the dough in a cake pan (8 inches (21 cm) in diameter at the base and 10 inches (25 cm) in area) that has been buttered and floured beforehand .
Cut away the excess pastry using a knife and save for the final decoration. Level the edges of the tart using the prongs of a fork, making them even . Pour the cream into the cake pan and level the surface using a spatula .
Finally, it’s time to decorate the tart: Roll out the leftover pastry and, using a fluted pastry wheel, cut strips around ¾ inch (2 cm) long . Arrange them on top of the tart , spaced evenly to form a rhombus pattern .
Brush the surface of the tart with the leftover egg whites , and then bake the tart for one hour in a conventional oven preheated to 320°F (160°C). Once baked, let the mascarpone and chocolate chip tart cool , then serve dusted with powdered sugar .
This mascarpone and chocolate chip tart can be kept in the fridge, covered with plastic wrap, for 2-3 days.
You can use vanilla bean seeds instead of the orange zest to flavor your mascarpone and chocolate chip tart.

