name:
Nutella roll
ingredients:
Eggs: 4- (medium)
Sugar: ½cup(115 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅔cup(80 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp
Nutella: 12oz(350 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 9 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time

instructions:
Nutella roll is a classic dessert: a delectable spiral of soft cookie dough encasing everyone’s favorite hazelnut spread! The texture and taste of this soft mixture are reminiscent of sponge cake, but in roll form, it becomes an exquisite parcel of deliciousness that will appeal to young and old! Serve it in slices as a tasty snack to celebrate children’s birthdays, perhaps paired with cute Mars Bar cake cubes or for family parties, like Halloween. Have fun decorating the cake with different stencils to suit the occasion… unleash your creativity on this blank canvas! But don’t expect to admire it for long. This Nutella roll will be gone in a flash!
To prepare the Nutella roll , break the eggs into a bowl. Add the vanilla extract and start mixing with an electric beater . When the mixture is frothy, add the sugar a little at a time . It’s important to maintain the frothiness.
Carry on beating until the eggs are light and fluffy . Turn off the beater and sift the flour directly into the egg mixture . Now blend the mixture very gently by making rotating movements with the spatula working from the bottom up
until the flour is completely folded in and the resulting mixture is fluffy and free of lumps . Butter and line a 12x16-inch (30x40 cm) baking pan with parchment paper, making sure that the paper sticks up over the edges so that you can lift the roll out easily once cooked. Pour the mixture into the baking pan and use a spatula to gently level so that it covers the whole surface .
Bake in a conventional oven preheated to 430°F (220°C) for approximately 8-9 minutes. Before taking the pan out of the oven, make sure the cookie dough is perfectly cooked. Once baked , immediately remove the cookie dough from the baking pan and flip it onto another sheet of parchment paper . Let it cool down before removing the sheet of parchment paper very gently. Then re-cover the dough with the parchment paper and let it cool down completely.
Pour the Nutella onto the cookie dough and spread over the whole surface with a spatula, stopping an inch (2 cm) short of the edge on all sides. Roll up the rectangle from the shorter side . Wrap the roll in the parchment paper again, making sure that the free end of the roll is at the bottom , seal the sides well and let the roll rest in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes.
Now unwrap the parchment paper and sprinkle the roll with cocoa and then powdered sugar . Your Nutella roll is ready, all you need to do is serve it !
Store the Nutella roll for up to 3-4 days in the refrigerator, tightly covered. If you like, you can freeze it. Another option is to freeze individual slices and defrost when needed.
Add hazelnut crumbs to the filling for a tasty, crunchy twist to the theme.
You can substitute vanilla bean seeds for vanilla extract.

