name:
Steak pizzaiola
ingredients:
Sliced veal: 1lb(400 g)
Tomato purée: 1 ½cup(400 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Oregano: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The best Mediterranean recipes are made with simple ingredients, in this case the same as pizza marinara... We are talking about the steak pizzaiola , a great classic of Italian cuisine! Steaks of veal or beef are dipped in a delicios tomato sauce dresses with garlic and oregano. But do not forget to beat the meat to make it tender and tasty. This way it will only need a few minutes to cook! A quick and easy second course, ideal to prepare for young and old, even for a last minute dinner. You just have to make a choice ... will you use the remaining pizzaiola sauce to season some pasta or will you eat it with one or two slices of homemade bread?
To prepare the steak pizzaiola , start with the sauce: heat the oil in a pan and add the crushed garlic cloves . After a couple of minutes, pour the tomato puree and a drop of water used to rinse the jar . Simmer for about 15 minutes over low heat.
In the meantime, prepare the meat: make small cuts on the edges of the slices where there is some fat to prevent them from curling during cooking , then transfer the slices on a sheet of parchment paper . Cover with another sheet and beat them lightly, being careful not to tear the meat; you will need to obtain a uniform thickness of about 3-4 mm .
When the sauce has reduced, flavor with oregano , salt and pepper, then remove the garlic .
Dip the slices of meat in the sauce (if they are too big you can cut them in half) and let them cook 2 minutes per side . Garnish with a few basil leaves, if you wish, and immediately serve your steak pizzaiola !
Steak pizzaiola can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 2 days, in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
You can prepare the sauce in advance and heat it in a pan before adding the slices of meat.
You can use beef or chicken breast instead of veal.
You can flavor the sauce with capers and olives, and replace the garlic with chopped onion.
If you wish, you can flour the slices before adding them to the sauce.
For a stringy version, add slices of mozzarella at the end and cover the pan with a lid or finish cooking in the oven.

