name:
Fusilli bucati with radicchio sauce
ingredients:
Fusilli bucati corti pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Radicchio: 10.5oz(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ¾tbsp(20 g)
Spring onions: 3cups(150 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: 1.75oz(50 g)
Pecorino cheese: ½cup(50 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ⅓cup(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The onset of winter calls for creamy, comforting, appetizing dishes like this fusilli bucati with radicchio sauce , a rich but simple first-course dish that deliciously emphasizes the slightly bitter flavor of this vegetable, also known as the “winter flower” thanks to its shape and its reddish-purple color. With a few tricks up your sleeve, you’ll soon get a dish that will win you over with its intriguing aromas and colors and its well-balanced flavors, so why not enhance your seasonal repertoire with this tempting and delicious fusilli bucati with radicchio sauce !
To make your fusilli bucati with radicchio sauce , first bring a pan of salted water to a boil for cooking the pasta. Cut off the base of the spring onion , wash it and slice it into strips , taking care to discard the green part. Heat the oil in a pan and pour in the sliced spring onion .
Allow to brown for a couple of minutes, then dilute with a couple of ladles of the pasta water and continue cooking for around 10 minutes or until wilted. In the meantime, remove the base of the radicchio, wash the leaves and cut them into strips . Pour the radicchio into the pan with the spring onion ,
season with salt and pepper , and continue cooking for another 5 minutes. In the meantime, take the pasta, pour it into the boiling water and cook for around 10 minutes or the time stated on the package. Once the radicchio is cooked ,
use the ladle to take out two-thirds of the sauce and transfer it to a tall-sided glass . Pour in the light cream and blend the mixture with an immersion blender
until you get a smooth cream . By now, your pasta will be cooked. Drain and pour it straight into the pan with the sauce , stir ,
season with the thyme leaves , and add the grated pecorino . Add salt and pepper to taste, stir to enhance the flavors, and serve your fusilli bucati with radicchio sauce piping hot .
This fusilli bucati with radicchio sauce is best enjoyed freshly prepared. If this isn’t possible, you can store it in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to a day. Not recommended for freezing.
You could use Chioggia radicchio as an alternative to Treviso radicchio. If you don’t like the strong taste of pecorino, you could always use Grana Padano or Parmigiano Reggiano cheese instead.

