name:
Pumpkin and sausage risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 0.75lb(320 g)
Pumpkin: 1lb(500 g)
Sausage: 0.66lb(300 g)
Shallot: 1
Vegetable broth: 1quart(1 l)
White wine: 3tbsp(40 g)
Butter: ¼cup(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ⅓cup(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ¾tbsp(20 g)
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp
Rosemary: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The sweetness of the pumpkin and the sapidity of the sausage come together in a creamy first course with a unique taste: pumpkin and sausage risotto . With the arrival of autumn we get ready to savor all the goodness of pumpkin with the most traditional and popular combinations, such as speck or gorgonzola. In this case the cubes of pumpkin with rosemary meet appetizing sausage crumbs that flavor a risotto prepared in the classic way. A rich, genuine and substantial dish, perfect to recharge with taste on the first cold days. So let's welcome the risotto season in autumn by bringing to the table all the delicacy of pumpkin and sausage risotto !
To make the pumpkin and sausage risotto , start by peeling the shallot, then slice it thinly and set it aside. Take the sausage, cut the casing with a small knife and gently pull it with your hands to remove it , then chop the meat with a knife .
Cut the pumpkin into slices, remove the peel and reduce the pulp into cubes by half a centimeter . Transfer the diced pumpkin to a bowl, season with olive oil ,
paprika , salt and pepper. Stir to flavor, then pour the seasoned pumpkin on a baking sheet and place some sprigs of rosemary . Bake in a preheated convection oven at 375°F (190°C) for 25 minutes. While the pumpkin is cooking, take care of the risotto: heat 1.5 tbsp (20 g) of butter in a pan and add the chopped shallot .
Stew the shallot with a ladle of broth for about 5 minutes, so as to soften it, then pour in the rice . Toast it for 1 minute, then pour the sausage .
When the sausage has browned, add the white wine , let it evaporate and then continue cooking by adding the broth as needed a little at a time, stirring the rice often. Cook the rice for about 18-20 minutes. Meanwhile, once the pumpkin has cooked, take it out of the oven and remove the sprigs of rosemary .
Once the risotto is cooked, turn off the heat and pour the pumpkin cubes , taking care to leave a handful aside for the decoration of the dishes. Stir in the grated Parmesan and 2 tbsp (30 g) of butter .
The risotto is ready , transfer it to serving dishes garnishing with the pumpkin kept aside . Serve your pumpkin and sausage risotto hot .
Pumpkin and sausage risotto can be kept for a maximum of one day in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended.
To obtain two different textures and preserve the unique flavor of the pumpkin we opted for two separate cooking. Alternatively, you can avoid cooking the pumpkin in the oven and add it to the rice 10 minutes before the end of cooking. The addition of a few pumpkin seeds or toasted hazelnuts will give a pleasant crunchiness to the dish!

