name:
Lemon sorbet
ingredients:
Lemon juice: 75cups(130 g)
Water: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(170 g)
Limoncello: 1 ½tbsp(30 g)
Egg whites: 1(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Very low

instructions:
As bright as the sun in color, with an unmistakably vibrant aroma and a zesty, irresistible flavor, lemon is a citrus fruit that is perfect for seasoning, adding flavor, perfume and color to savory dishes and desserts, in the form of juice or colorful zest! Today it plays a leading role in a dessert we have all enjoyed at least once in our lives: lemon sorbet. A fresh, thirst-quenching flavor and a delicately tart after-taste make this creamy cold dessert a masterpiece, perfect for serving at the end of a meal as a digestive. But is this the only moment in which lemon sorbet can be served? Of course not: try it as a snack or during a break at the office, when you return from a nice walk or after a long day at work. In short, any time is the right time for some homemade lemon sorbet !
To prepare your lemon sorbet start by placing the egg white in a bowl and whisk . When the egg white is semi-whipped, you will notice as a little froth will form on the surface, sprinkle 2 tbsp of sugar over them and continue whisking all the while . As soon as the mixture becomes white and frothy it is ready: leave it to one side .
Squeeze the lemons to obtain 0.75 cups of juice , filter in a fine mesh colander to remove any pulp , and place the juice in a container into which you have already added the water .
Whisk and add the remaining 0.75 cup of sugar , then gradually add the egg whites so as not to deflate the soft mixture. After thoroughly mixing the ingredients together, add the limoncello and stir some more .
Pour the mixture into the ice cream maker (follow instructions for your machine) and switch it on. As soon as the sorbet acquires a classic creamy consistency, which will take around 40 minutes , place it in glasses and serve your lemon sorbet garnished with zest .
You can store lemon sorbet in the freezer for up to a month.
We recommend using pasteurized egg whites to minimize risks associated with raw egg consumption. As an alternative, you could make our recipe for lemon sorbet without egg whites. If you do not have an ice cream maker, proceed in this way: place the mixture in a wide bowl and leave in the freezer for at least an hour. Remove it, stir lightly with a fork and repeat every half hour until you obtain your desired consistency. It will take around 4 hours. If you don't want to use limoncello you can replace it with lemon juice. Instead, if you want to make an even more delicious dessert, accompany your lemon sorbet with prosecco.

