name:
Swirl cookies
ingredients:
Butter: 2sticks(200 g)- cold from the fridge
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 1cup(100 g)
Eggs: 1(55 g)
Water: to taste- at room temperature, for brushing
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 3tbsp(20 g)
Type 00 flour: 6tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 16 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time in the refrigerator (2.5 hours)

instructions:
Everyone knows that breakfast should be the most important meal of the day. We awaken slowly and with pleasure, with a piping hot mug of tea or coffee. With this moment in mind, we created a cookie that makes the perfect start to the day, for children and grown-ups alike... what could be more delicious than swirl cookies ? Both a plain and cocoa dough are used to prepare these delicious cookies, characterized by a morish swirl for a highly original visual effect! Their double flavor also makes them ideal for enjoying with your friends over a hot mug of tea! You can also prepare these swirl cookies to enrich a birthday buffet: follow our tips to achieve a result that will amaze everyone!
If you love cookies you can't miss these recipes:
To prepare swirl cookies , start from the base dough: place the thoroughly chilled and diced butter in a mixer bowl . Add 2.5 cups of flour and blend both ingredients in several short bursts to avoid heating the butter too much and to obtain a mixture with a sandy consistency .
Now place the dough in a bowl and add the powdered sugar and the egg . Knead very fast by hand . This step is crucial so be sure not to heat the dough by kneading it for too long: you just need to make it a little firmer.
Once you have formed a uniform mixture (it will be soft) , weigh it, split it into two equal parts and place both pieces in separate bowls . Add the remaining flour to one bowl (6 tbsp) and knead rapidly by hand until the flour is absorbed.
Add the cocoa to the other bowl and knead this dough too, yet again fast and by hand . Once both shortcrust pastries are ready ,
lightly flatten each piece, wrap separately in plastic wrap and place them back in the refrigerator for a couple of hours (or until nice and firm). Once this time is up, roll both shortcrust pastries out into rectangles that are around 0.2 inches thick and 8.6x10 inches in size (14-15). You may find it easier to roll out each pastry by placing it in between two sheets of parchment paper.
Once rolled out, dab some water onto the white shortcrust pastry rectangle and using a rolling pin, place the rectangle of cocoa shortcrust pastry over the plain piece , with all edges fully aligned. Delicately press down with the rolling pin so that both shortcrust pastry rectangles adhere perfectly together.
Now dab some water over the entire cocoa dough surface and start rolling both layers of pastry together (19-20). Wrap the resulting roll in plastic wrap and place it back in the refrigerator for around 30 minutes to firm up.
Now take the roll and cut it into slices that are around 0.3 inches thick . Place your swirl cookies on an oven tray lined with parchment paper and bake in a static oven preheated to 320? for around 25 minutes (if you use a ventilated oven, bake a few cookies to test times and temperature for successive batches). When done , remove from the oven, leave to cool and enjoy your swirl cookies !
We recommend storing swirl cookies in a tin to protect them from humidity, for no longer than 7 days. If you prefer, you can freeze the shortcrust pastry roll, wrapped in plastic wrap, for around 1 month, before cutting into slices.
Once you have rolled out the shortcrust pastry rectangles, do not place them back in the refrigerator, otherwise they will break when you roll them up.

