name:
Diplomat cream (Custard cream and whipped cream)
ingredients:
Heavy cream: 1.3cups(300 g)
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)- high quality
Egg yolks: ¼cup(40 g)- (about 3)
Sugar: ¼cup(40 g)
Cornstarch: 1tbsp(15 g)
Isinglass: 0.25oz(7 g)
Vanilla bean: 1- Madagascar Bourbon

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time for bowl and cream

instructions:
Soft, candid and versatile, diplomat cream is one of the most fundamental pastry-making recipes around the world. Born from the union of custard and whipped cream, it is really easy to prepare, but you will obtain a perfect consistency by following a few tricks of Master Iginio Massari. Diplomat cream is perfect to fill a lot of desserts, such as cream puffs, a millefeuille cake or the famous diplomat cake. But you can also use it to make soft desserts, garnishing your cups with berries or chocolate chips. Its uses are really endless, you can even flavor this base with hazelnut paste, pistachio and pieces of fresh fruit! Whatever its use, we recommend that you follow our recipe for a delicious and delicate result.
First put a bowl in the freezer and let it cool completely, then soak the gelatin in cold water in a separate container . At this point, prepare the custard. Pour the milk and seeds from the vanilla bean into a pan, and heat until it boils. Meanwhile, in another pan pour the yolks, sugar ,
cornstarch and stir with a whisk until a homogeneous mixture is obtained. When the milk starts to boil, pour 1/3 of it into the egg yolk mixture and stir.
Pour the remaining milk in two parts . Put the pan back over the heat, stirring continuously for a few minutes until the cream thickens .
Take off the heat and stir quickly, so it will be very lucid.At this point take the bowl from the freezer and pour the cream inside ; before stirring add the drained gelatin and stir quickly to melt it , and let the cream cool. When the cream is no longer hot, place it in the fridge.
In the meantime, half-whip the cream . It should be soft, shiny and not too whipped. Take the custard from the fridge and add 1/3 of the whipped cream . Whip the mixture quickly .
Then add the remaining cream in two more parts, stirring with a hand whisk, but more gently . Cover with plastic wrap and plsce the diplomat cream in the refrigerator until needed .
Diplomat cream can be covered with plastic wrap and stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Alternatively, you can freeze it for about 1 month.
Be very careful when whipping the cream, it should still be very soft, semi-whipped. If it is whipped too much it loses the taste of cream and acquires the taste and flavor of butter: if this happens, you can also use it in the kitchen for savory recipes.
With these doses you will be able to fill a 9 - inch (22 cm) diameter cake with two layers of cream.

