name:
Pasta with mushrooms and sausage
ingredients:
Trofie pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Sausage: 0.66lb(300 g)
Porcini mushrooms: 0.66lb(300 g)
Whipping cream: ½cup(100 g)
White wine: ½cup(100 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 1sprig
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
It’s always hard to say no to a dish of pasta, but practically impossible when the sauce is irresistible, as is the case with pasta with mushrooms and sausage ! We have tried a more autumnal version with mushrooms, sausage, and crumbled chestnuts, and used the same ingredients as a filling for paccheri pasta! Today we are celebrating this heavenly combination in its pure form, embellished with just a little cream. And we opted for the trofie pasta shape to make this dish even more special. Trofie are ideal for this type of sauce because they sauté beautifully in the pan and scoop up all the wonderful ingredients, forkful after forkful.
To prepare trofie pasta with sausages and mushrooms , start by cleaning the mushrooms. Firstly, slice through the base to remove the earthy part . Then wipe the whole mushroom gently using a damp cloth. We also recommend using a special mushroom cleaning brush if needed . When all the mushrooms are clean, cut them into slices a few millimeters thick .
Now it’s time to cook them. Heat a little oil in a saucepan and add an unpeeled garlic clove for flavor. As soon as the base of the pan is hot, crumble in a sausage without its skin . Let the meat brown gently and then turn up the heat before adding the mushrooms . Fry the mushrooms too, and remove the garlic clove when the mushrooms begin to give up their liquid.
Remove the leaves from a sprig of rosemary and add to the pan . A few minutes later, when the liquid from the mushrooms has evaporated, deglaze with white wine . Season with salt and pepper, turn the heat down and bring the pasta water to a boil .
As soon as the water is boiling, add the trofie pasta . In the meantime, pour the cream into a pan with the flavoring and grind in a little more pepper . As soon as the trofie pasta is cooked, drain them while still in the pan .
Add pasta cooking water as needed to achieve a sauce of the desired consistency , making sure to mix well . Dish up and serve the trofie with sausage and mushrooms as soon as they are ready !
Trofie pasta with sausage and mushrooms are best eaten straight away, but you can keep the sauce in the refrigerator for up to 3-4 days if you wish.
Alternative options? Add cherry tomatoes to your trofie with sausages and mushrooms. Just brown them with garlic or mix some saffron with the cream instead of the tomatoes!
• Can you replace the cream?
Some site users have suggested a vegan white sauce, made with olive oil instead of butter and vegetable broth instead of milk. Or you can use cheese spread!
• Can you use dried mushrooms?
Sure! First wash them and soak for 10-15 minutes in cold water. Then use them in the recipe as described above.
• Which pasta shape is best to use instead of trofie?
Any pasta shape that holds the sauce: rigatoni, penne rigate, paccheri, and – why not – even home-made potato gnocchi.
• Can you leave the garlic out?
Sure, you can leave it out or replace it with onion or shallot.
• Do you need to deglaze with wine?
This step is best included for the flavor, but you could leave it out or use a little vegetable broth instead.

