name:
Grandma's ring cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 5cups(500 g)
Sugar: 1cup(300 g)
Butter: 1cup(250 g)- room temperature
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)- room temperature
Eggs: 5(275 g)- room temperature
Raisins: 6tbsp(75 g)
Candied orange: 5tbsp(50 g)
Oranges: 1- (the peel and the juice)
Lemon peel: 1
Vanilla bean: 1
Baking powder: 1tbsp(16 g)
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low

instructions:
The aroma of a rustic dessert made with grandma's loving hands. It fills the kitchen, wafting through the rest of the home. Without a doubt many of us remember and miss this image. Why not relive such a sweet memory by preparing a delicious grandma's ring cake ? Exactly, we're not talking about grandma's cake, the other great classic together with this contender. We're talking about the softest of all ring cakes, ideal for breakfast together, before seeing each other off for the day. It is also an ideal snack for kids as they a relaxing break from their studies. You can even make this dessert for your other half, when they are feeling down, or perhaps to stoke their imagination with a light touch of cocoa. Grandma's ring cake is always a hit, especially because of its flavor: it really is loved by everyone. Today Giallozafferano plays the role of a doting grandma and reveals the secrets of her delicious recipe, one that should be passed down so that this tradition can continue. Here's how to prepare grandma's ring cake, we look forward to seeing you all!
Try also our Tiramisu Bundt Cake and Ricotta and Lemon Bundt Cake
To prepare grandma's ring cake , start by making sure that all the ingredients taken from the refrigerator are at room temperature, otherwise they will not bind together. Grate the lemon and orange peel and leave to one side , then cut the orange in half, squeeze out the juice and filter it in a container. Now rinse the raisins and leave them to soak in the orange juice .
In the meantim filter the flour and the yeast in a bowl , then stir . Before you continue, butter and flour a 9 inch diameter ring cake mold that is 3.5 inches tall and switch the oven on. Now that everything is ready, start with the preparation: place the softened butter in a bowl, add the citrus peel ,
the seeds of the vanilla bean and beat with a whisk while gradually adding the sugar, a little at a time (8-9).
After around 5 minutes add the eggs one at a time and continue to whisk all the while. Beat for a few more minutes until the mixture is frothy and homogeneous . Lastly, gradually add the flour and the yeast a little at a time, using a spoon . Continue to beat with the whisk all the while,
gradually add and temper the milk . Switch off and remove the whisk. Drain the raisins and sprinkle with a little flour .
Remove any excess flour and add the raisins to the candied orange peel . Now pour 1/3 of the mix into the mold and spread half of the raisins and candied peel over it . Repeat with 1/3 of the mix and the remaining part of the raisins and peel.
Lastly, cover with the remaining 1/3 of the mix. Smooth the surface and the cake is ready to be baked. Bake in a static oven preheated to 356 °F (180 °C) for around 60 minutes; check that it is done by performing the toothpick test. Once baked, leave the grandma's ring cake to fully cool before removing from the mold and sprinkling with the powdered sugar to taste !
Grandma's ring cake can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days under a glass cake cloche, in a fresh place. If you prefer you can freeze it, even better if sliced. It isn't possible to store the unbaked dough, so once ready you'll need to bake it right away.
You can customize you grandma's cake and make it different each time, for example, instead of the orange peel, try using candied ginger. Or instead of the citrus peel you can use chocolate drops or coarsely chop a chocolate bar for a more rustic effect. Lastly, for a extra special touch, add 2 spoons of cointreau or limoncello to the juice for rehydrating the raisins.

