name:
Tagliatelle with radicchio and speck
ingredients:
Egg Tagliatelle pasta: 0.5lb(250 g)
Radicchio: 1lb(400 g)
Speck: 6oz(180 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 7tbsp(100 g)
Tomato purée: 3tbsp(50 g)
Shallot: 1oz(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The vibrant purple color of radicchio characterizes today's recipe, rich in decisive and typical winter flavors. Tagliatelle with radicchio and speck is a first course dedicated to lovers of special flavors, like those of "red chicory", famous for its pleasantly bitter taste. A cascade of speck strips embellishes this dish, entwined with the radicchio to form a swirling vortex with the egg tagliatelle. A flavorsome dish, a simple yet tried-and-tested pairing that satisfies connoisseurs, made all the more special by its creaminess. How? We'll let you discover all the steps for turning a dish featuring a renowned pairing, into a wonderful first course! Tagliatelle with radicchio and speck : always perfect, even for a Sunday lunch!
Try other recipes of tagliatelle seasoned in different ways:
And check out more homemade pasta recipes:
To prepare tagliatelle with radicchio and speck , start by chopping all the ingredients you'll need. Start with the shallot: peel and finely chop it with a knife . Then cut the speck into sticks of the same length and thickness , so that they cook evenly. Lastly, prepare the radicchio by removing the outermost leaves .
Cut it in half lengthwise , cut away the tough part of the stalk and then slice the radicchio into thin strips .
Leave the shallot to sweat on a low flame in a non-stick pan, with a drizzle of oil, for 4-5 minutes. Add the strips of speck and cook for another 4 minutes . Add the milk and the tomato puree .
Add salt and pepper to taste, cook for 6-7 minutes, to thicken . In the meantime, cook the pasta in boiling salted water , remove half way into the cooking time and finish cooking directly in the saucepan, together with the sauce . In this way you'll create a more intense flavor and enhance the creaminess of this dish.
Once cooked, add the radicchio julienne and stir . The tagliatelle with radicchio and speck are ready now , simply enjoy them while they're still piping hot!
Tagliatelle with radicchio and speck are best enjoyed right away. If you prefer to keep them for later, store in the refrigerator, in a container covered with plastic wrap, for no longer than a day. Freezing is not recommended
You can make your tagliatelle with radicchio and speck even more flavorsome, for example by adding a little grated parmesan cheese, or by replacing the speck with smoky bacon.

