name:
Venetian style cod
ingredients:
Stockfish: 17oz(500 g)- (already soaked)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1cup(280 g)
Lemons: 0
Garlic: 1clove
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High
Note + the soaking time of the cod (about 3 days). You can use both the leaf and the whisk, just don't use a mixer. The skin must be removed.

instructions:
Dried cod often features in traditional dishes of Italian cuisine, prepared in different ways from region to region, for example dried cod Leghorn style or Ligurian style, not to mention the exquisite Venetian style cod . One basic thing sets this recipe apart from the previously mentioned ones: the main ingredient; just like in the Vicenza style version, the dried cod used to make the puree, is commonly called baccalà, or salt cod, in Veneto! Now that we have cleared that up, we can focus on preparing this specialty, typically served as a starter on slices of grilled polenta. The important thing is that you soak the dried cod for the right amount of time, to guarantee a creamy consistency and delicate flavor. Perfect for the festive season, perhaps served in crisp tart pastry baskets, Venetian style cod is an excellent alternative to fritters, as a taster of the finest dishes our culture has to offer!
Check out also this recipe: Venetian tuna melt pasta

To prepare Venetian style cod , start by buying previously soaked dried cod, otherwise leave it to soak for 3 days in a bowl and change the water every day. Now remove the skin from the dried cod and cut into slices . Fill a saucepan with cold water and add the unpeeled garlic clove, 1-2 laurel leaves and half a lemon.
Place the dried cod in the water, bring to the boil and leave to cook for around 30 minutes on a low flame ; skim the froth that will form on the  using a skewer . The cooking time may vary according to the piece of dried cod you are using, so check that is well-done. Once the time is up, drain the dried cod and save the cooking water .
Place the dried cod in a bowl and check for any bones; leave it to cool , then place it in a planetary mixer bowl fitted with a whisk , or a leaf spatula. Switch on the planetary mixer at a low speed and gradually add the oil .
Once you have incorporated the oil, gradually add 6.76 tbsp of cooking water and continue stirring to obtain a homogeneous cream with a spreadable consistency . Add salt and pepper to taste, garnish with parsley and a drizzle of oil, then serve your puree of dried cod on slices of grilled polenta !
Venetian style cod is best enjoyed freshly made. Alternatively, you can store it in the refrigerator, for up to one day.
If you do not have a planetary mixer you can use a simple wood ladle and lots of elbow grease!
Do you know the difference between salt cod and dried cod? Both are cod, the only difference is the method of preservation: in the former case, the fish is immersed in salt, whereas with the latter preparation, the fish is dried in cold air. Both require soaking before use.

