name:
Pumpkin cordon bleu
ingredients:
Pumpkin: 0.5lb(220 g)- butternut
Mozzarella cheese: 4oz(125 g)
Cooked ham: 3slices
Eggs: 3
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(150 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: oz(20 g)- for grating
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste
Green Peperoncino: 1pinch
Rosemary: to taste- finely chopped
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Queen of the winter and rich in autumn colors, pumpkin accompanies us during both seasons with its unique sweetness. Its unmistakable flavor makes it suitable for all kinds of recipes, both sweet and savory. Today we've used it for a rather unusual recipe, which won us over right away! Pumpkin cordon bleu are extremely crunchy, thanks to their double breadcrumb coating, but they contain a soft filling and a melted heart. Just like the more traditional recipe with chicken, there will be no shortage of cooked ham, and this second dish will be perfect for all occasions, as a dinner with friends.
To make pumpkin cordon bleu , start by peeling the pumpkin . Then cut it into slices that are around 0.2 inches thick . You should end up with 12 .
Now beat the eggs in a bowl with salt and pepper . Place the breadcrumbs in a baking tray, add the finely chopped rosemary, the parmigiano cheese and the powdered peperoncino . Stir with a spoon and leave to one side.
Place half a slice of cooked ham on the first pumpkin slice, then add a slice of mozzarella cheese . Top with another pumpkin slice . Repeat with the remaining slices.
Hold both pumpkin pieces together and dip the cordon bleu in the egg , then in the breadcrumbs and once more in the egg and the breadcrumbs . In this way you will create a double breadcrumb coating.
Place on a tray and repeat for all the other pieces. In the meantime, heat the oil to 290 °F (145 °C). Once heated to the right temperature, use a skimmer to place the first cordon bleu in the oil and cook for around 5 minutes ,
until nice and golden. Now drain and place it on a tray lined with kitchen paper . Continue in the same way. It's best to fry 1-2 pieces at a time to prevent the oil temperature from dropping too much. Add a little salt and serve the pumpkin cordon bleu nice and hot .
Enjoy pumpkin cordon bleu nice and hot. Or you could store them in the refrigerator for up to one day, and heat them up in the oven before serving.
You could use speck or another kind of salami instead of cooke ham.
If you prefer, you can use another kind of pulled curd cheese instead of mozzarella.

