name:
Sedanini with creamed artichoke and pancetta
ingredients:
Sedanini Rigati pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Artichokes: 2.25lbs(1 kg)
Smoked pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Vegetable broth: ½cup(100 ml)
White wine: ½cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Are you craving artichokes? Take advantage of the season to enjoy fresh artichokes in a variety of dishes. Eat them as an appetizer, first course, or main course: These vegetables with their delicate, tasty hearts can be enjoyed in many different dishes. We’ve decided to prepare a delicious first course: sedanini with creamed artichoke and pancetta . The sedanini pasta is coated in flavorful velvety artichoke sauce and garnished with crispy smoked pancetta morsels to create a delectable contrast of flavors and textures. Come and discover all of the other recipes you can make with artichokes!
To make the sedanini with creamed artichoke and pancetta , start by cleaning the artichokes: remove the stalks and cut away the tougher tips. Peel the artichokes by removing the tough outer leaves, then cut the artichokes in half and finish by slicing them .
Slice the smoked pancetta and then cut into strips . Heat the olive oil in a saucepan with a whole garlic clove for a few minutes over low heat to flavor the oil. Then remove the garlic with a fork ,
add 1.75 oz (50 g) of pancetta to the saucepan, sauté for a couple of minutes, and add the artichokes . Deglaze with the white wine . When the wine has evaporated,
pour in a ladleful of vegetable broth (or water) . Continue cooking until the artichokes are soft, adding broth one ladleful at a time as needed to keep the artichokes from drying out too much; then add salt and pepper to taste. The artichokes will take about 50 minutes to cook. When they are soft, turn off the heat and blend to a smooth creamy sauce with an immersion blender before transferring to a non-stick pan.
Meanwhile, heat a pot full of salted water and bring to a boil before adding the sedanini rigati pasta . Cook the pasta until it is al dente (about 10 minutes usually, but check the cooking time shown on the package). In the meantime, sauté another 1.75 oz (50 g) of pancetta in a pan to toast it and make it crispy . Once the pasta is cooked, drain it and pour directly into the non-stick pan ,
toss to coat with the sauce, and then garnish with the crispy pancetta . Your sedanini with creamed artichoke and pancetta is ready and can be served piping hot .
Sedanini with creamed artichoke and pancetta is best eaten right away. If you have any left over, you can keep it in the fridge in an airtight container for a couple of days. You can prepare the creamed artichoke sauce in advance and keep it in the fridge or freeze it.
You can add chopped parsley to the creamed artichoke sauce to add an aromatic touch.

