name:
Spring crepes
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1.7cups(400 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(100 g)
Eggs: 2
Vegetable oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Spinach: 1cup(50 g)- already boiled and squeezed
Asparagus: 0.7lb(300 g)- to be cleaned
Peas: 1cup(150 g)
Zucchini flowers: 15
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Goat: 0.44lb(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to grate
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Cinnamon powder: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- to grate

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the spring crepes, first, boil the spinach in boiling water and squeeze them well to remove excess liquid. Move on to the crepe batter: pour the eggs into a tall and narrow container , then add the milk and the seed oil .
Add the sifted flour and blend with an immersion blender to achieve a smooth and homogeneous consistency. Divide the obtained batter into 2 bowls .
In one of the two bowls, add the already boiled and squeezed spinach and blend with the immersion blender to mix them . When both mixtures are ready, proceed with cooking .
Heat a non-stick pan with a diameter of about 7 inches over medium-low heat and lightly oil it , then pour a ladle of the classic batter into the center and rotate the pan to spread it evenly. When the edges begin to detach, flip the crepe with a spatula and cook for another minute on the other side.
As they are ready, stack the crepes on a tray . Proceed to cook the green crepes in the same way: oil the pan, pour a ladle of batter into the center, and rotate to distribute it , then cook on both sides for a total of a couple of minutes . Cover the crepes with plastic wrap and proceed with preparing the filling.
Clean the asparagus by removing the tougher part of the stalk, then divide them into 3 parts . Blanch the asparagus in salted boiling water for 2-3 minutes , then transfer them to a bowl with cold water and ice to maintain the color .
In the meantime, remove the pistil from the zucchini flowers . Cut the asparagus into rounds and sauté them for a few minutes in a pan where you have sautéed a clove of crushed garlic in its skin and a halved chili pepper in a drizzle of oil .
Add the peas and zucchini flowers , salt, pepper, and sauté everything for a few minutes. Once cooked, remove the garlic and the chili pepper and let cool.
Meanwhile, combine the ricotta, goat cheese , and grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP in a bowl, add salt and pepper.
Mix everything , then add the cooled vegetables and mix well to obtain a homogeneous mixture .
Finally, prepare the oil bechamel sauce: pour the milk into a saucepan and season with salt, pepper, cinnamon, and nutmeg . In the meantime, heat the oil in another saucepan, then add the flour all at once and mix vigorously with a whisk .
When you have obtained a golden mixture, add the flavored milk and continue to stir over the heat to reach the desired consistency . When the bechamel has thickened, transfer it to a bowl and cover it with plastic wrap in contact .
You are ready to fill the crepes: place a crepe on the work surface, spread the filling on half of the surface , and fold it in half , then fold it again to obtain a triangle . Proceed in this way to fill all the crepes, both white and green.
At this point, sprinkle the base of a baking dish with some bechamel , then arrange the filled crepes with the tip facing up, alternating colors , and cover them with the rest of the bechamel .
Sprinkle with grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP and bake in a preheated static oven at 375°F for 15 minutes . After this time, continue cooking for another 5 minutes on the grill setting at 400°F, being careful not to burn them. When they are nicely golden, remove from the oven and serve your spring crepes !
The spring crepes can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. Alternatively, you can freeze them after cooking and cooling.
You can prepare the crepes in advance and store them in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap, then fill and gratin them the next day.
You can customize the filling of the spring crepes by using other seasonal vegetables to your liking, such as broccoli, cabbage, radicchio, cauliflower, etc...!
If you prefer, you can replace the oil bechamel with a classic bechamel. The weight of the raw spinach is always about 50 g.

