name:
Fish ravioli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3
Smoked Salmon: 3oz(100 g)
Shrimps: 8oz(250 g)
Ricotta cheese: 1cup(200 g)
Thyme: to taste
Brandy: 1tsp(5 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Tomato purée: ¾cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Fresh liquid cream: 3tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: High
Note + the fresh pasta resting time

instructions:
Today we present you with one of the most classic dishes of home tradition, typically prepared on special occasions: fish ravioli . These delicious ravioli always win the family over, due to their creaminess and flavorsome filling. It will be worth dusting off your grandmother's old pasta machine. Your guests will be over the moon and your table will be filled with joy and excitement thanks to this first course! For more expert hands it will be a child's play, for less experienced ones it can become a delicious challenge, a precious culinary gift for sharing with your loved ones on special occasions!
You may also like:
to make fish ravioli , start by sieving the flour in a bowl ; crack the 3 eggs open in another bowl, to prevent any pieces of shell from ending up in the dough. Add the eggs to the middle of the flour and start mixing, with a fork ; place the resulting dough on a work top and knead it vigorously . Consider that based on the absorption capacity of the flour, you may need a little more if the dough is sticky. We always recommend leaving out around 0.4-0.5 cup and adding it at the end if needed.
Once the dough absorbs the eggs, place it on a pastry board lightly sprinkled with flour and continue to knead by hand until smooth and homogeneous . Now cover it in plastic wrap and leave to rest at room temperature for around 30 minutes, away from drafts of air. Prepare the filling in the meantime: clean the shrimps by cutting away the head, removing the shell and black string on the back . Heat a drizzle of oil in a non-stick pan, add the whole peeled garlic clove ;
leave to flavor for a few minutes, then remove the garlic. Add the shrimps , brown them for a minute on a high flame, add the brandy , simmer and reduce. Once reduced, remove from the heat .
Place the cooked shrimps in the mixer, add the salmon , the ricotta, add the nutmeg and pepper to taste, but don't add any salt as smoked salmon is already rather salty. Blend into a homogeneous mixture .
Season the filling with the thyme leaves and leave to one side. Go back to the fresh pasta, remove the film and split it into two equal parts; cover one piece with plastic wrap so that it does not dry out while you roll the other piece out in the pasta machine until around 0.04 inches thick (setting number 8 on the machine) . You will end up with a long piece of pasta: split it into two equal parts.
Take the ravioli mold, sprinkle with the flour , then take one of the two pieces of dough (cover the other with plastic wrap so that it doesn't dry out), gently roll it out using a rolling pin so that it is the same length as the mold, then place it over the mold and delicately press down over each hole to create dips ; add a spoon of filling to each one but do not overfill, otherwise you won't be able to seal the ravioli and they'll open up during cooking.
Dab some water onto the edges with a brush so the pasta adheres better , cover with the second pasta sheet , press it down by hand so that they stick together, then roll the rolling pin over the surface to seal both layers of pasta .
Delicately remove the excess pasta , turn the mold over to remove the ravioli and place them on a cloth sprinkled with flour .
Now prepare the sauce; bring a saucepan filled with water to the boil and add salt to taste, you'll cook the ravioli in it. Add a drizzle of oil to a deep pan, flavor for a couple of minutes with the whole peeled garlic clove . Remove the garlic clove and add the tomato puree; add salt and pepper to taste and cook on a medium flame for around 15 minutes. Once the sauce is ready, boil the ravioli in the salted boiling water (do not simmer too vigorously otherwise the ravioli will open) . Cook for around two minutes or until they float to the surface.
In the meantime, now that the sauce is ready, pour the fresh liquid milk into the pan , stir and cook for another couple of minutes on a low flame; when the ravioli float to the surface , drain them and add them to the sauce straight away .
Delicately stir to prevent the ravioli from opening , flavor with a few thyme leaves and serve your fish ravioli nice and hot .
Ravioli are best enjoyed freshly made, but you can also store them in the freezer for a few days, or up to 1 month at most. If you want to freeze them, proceed as follows: place the tray with the ravioli in the freezer for a couple of hours, or until they harden. Then place them in freezer bags. When you want to use them, remove the freezer bag from the freezer and cook in abundant salted water from frozen.
Fish ravioli can be enjoyed on all your special occasions, whatever the time of year. Depending on the season, you may choose to serve them in a fresh cherry tomato sauce, or an aromatic basil sauce.

