name:
Asparagus and pancetta pasta
ingredients:
Penne Rigate pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Asparagus: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)
Shallot: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(20 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Green is the color of spring, just like asparagus, which we have chosen for this delicious asparagus and pancetta pasta dish! A first course that is easy to make, yet oh so delicious. I'm sure you all know that no part of an asparagus goes to waste: some of the stalk can be thinly sliced, some of it can be pureed to make an enveloping sauce, whereas the tips can be browned together with the smoky pancetta. What can we say: color and goodness, genuineness and flavor for a pasta dish that will delight everyone's palates!
If you love asparagus, try also these recipes:

To prepare asparagus and pancetta pasta , remove the tough ends of the asparagus stalks , cut the stalks into rings , cut the tips in half and leave them to one side.
Peel and finely chop the shallot , cut the bacon into strips . Bring the water for cooking the pasta to the boil, add salt and in the meantime, heat a drizzle of oil in a large pan .
Add the finely chopped shallot and leave to brown on medium heat for 2-3 minutes, stir occasionally. Add the asparagus stalk rings , add salt and pepper to taste. Add a ladle of hot water (taken from the pot in which the pasta will be cooked), simmer and reduce . Cook for around 10 minutes and add a little hot water if necessary.
Once the asparagus is cooked, remove around 2/3 of it and place in a glass together with 2 tbsp of oil , 1/2 cups of water and blend using an immersion blender .
You should now have a smooth cream . Leave the cream to one side, add the bacon to the pan in which the asparagus was cooked and leave to brown for 2 minutes on medium heat, stir occasionally. Now add the asparagus tips and leave to brown for another 5 minutes.
In the meantime, cook the pasta until firm to the bite . Save a few strips of pancetta and browned asparagus tips and add the asparagus cream to the pan with the sauce , along with the asparagus stalk rings.
Add the cooked pasta to the pan and stir for a couple of minutes until thoroughly coated and creamy . Place the pasta on plates, add some freshly ground pepper to taste and decorate each plate with the asparagus tips and strips of pancetta you left to one side !
Asparagus and pancetta pasta can be stored for up to 1 day in the refrigerator, in a sealed container. Freezing is not recommended.
Add some fresh thyme and a sprinkling of Pecorino for an even richer flavor! If your asparagus tips are especially thick, peel them to remove the toughest outer part.

