name:
Mimosa cupcake
ingredients:
Butter: ½cup(120 g)- room temperature
Eggs: 3(165 g)- (around 3)
Sugar: ⅔cup(120 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Baking powder: ½tsp(2 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(250 ml)
Heavy cream: 1cup(300 ml)
Cornstarch: 3tbsp(25 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Sugar: ½cup(80 g)
Vanilla bean: ½

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
On the 8th March we have always paid tribute to women in the most delicious of ways! From the classic mimosa cake, with its delicious pineapple version, to the creative tagliatelle that evoke mimosa leaves. Lots of tempting recipes, each characterized by the typical straw yellow color of the traditional symbol of women's day. The recipe for mimosa cupcakes is the latest addition to a rich collection inspired by this occasion, for a single-portion version of the eponymous cake. With their creamy diplomat cream, these cupcakes make the perfect small gift for celebrating this special day!!
To make mimosa cupcakes , place the softened pieces of butter, the lemon peel and the sugar in a bowl, beat for a few moments with the electric whisk to amalgamate the ingredients , then gradually add the lightly beaten eggs while stirring with the electric whisk all the while, so that they are slowly absorbed .
Now beat the mixture energetically until puffy, light and frothy . Incorporate the flour and the yeast: use a colander to sieve them directly into the bowl to prevent any lumps from forming (5-6),
then with a spatula stir delicately from the bottom up . Once the powders are thoroughly incorporated , line a mold for 12 cupcakes with paper cups and use an ice cream scoop (or a spoon) to fill each one with the dough . Bake the cupcakes in a static oven preheated to 355 °F ( 180 °C) for 20 minutes.
Prepare the diplomat cream in the meantime: bring the milk to just before the boil , place the eggs and sugar in a bowl , beat the mixture with a whisk, then gradually add the corn starch, stirring all the while .
Flavor with the seeds of the vanilla bean and gradually add the hot milk , stirring with the whisk all the while .
Place the mixture back in the saucepan and heat on a low flame; add the grated lemon peel and leave to thicken on a medium flame, stirring all the while . Place the cream in a baking tray, cover with plastic wrap and leave to cool at room temperature before returning it to the refrigerator to firm up for an hour or so.
When the cream is firm, beat the fresh liquid cream with the electric whisk until nice and frothy . Take the cream from the refrigerator and stir with the whisk to soften it ,
then gradually add it to the whipped cream ; stir carefully from the bottom up . Remove your cupcakes from the oven, they will have cooled down by now .
Take each cupcake and delicately hollow the top to create a cavity using a knife, then fill it with the cream (25-26). Crumble all the removed cupcake tops: you'll need them for garnishing at the end .
Now place the diplomat cream in a star-tipped pastry bag and squeeze tufts of cream into the cavity , then decorate each cupcake with the cupcake crumbs to create a mimosa effect . The mimosa cupcakes are ready to be enjoyed !
Mimosa cupcakes can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. You can store the diplomat cream in a sealed container for around 3 days, or freeze it. The cupcake base can be prepared the day before and stored under a glass cake cloche.
Let your imagination run wild and fill your cupcakes with whatever cream you prefer: a milk cream or a white chocolate pastry cream are favorites for this recipe!

