name:
Mascarpone and strawberry cake
ingredients:
Eggs: 5- (around 10 oz)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅔cup(75 g)
Potato starch: ½cup(75 g)
Almond flour: 1cup(75 g)
Heavy cream: 1cup(350 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(350 g)
Powdered sugar: ⅔cup(75 g)
Strawberries: 0.5lb(200 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Water: 1cup(200 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Orange peel: 1
Heavy cream: ½cup(100 g)
Powdered sugar: 2tbsp(15 g)
Strawberries: 2
Ground pistachio: 5tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 33 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note plus 2.5 hours of rest in the fridge

instructions:
In the springtime, strawberry desserts are always the most appreciated ones. For anyone who fancies something fresh, nothing quite hits the spot like a nice semifreddo, and for those with a sweeter tooth, pairing the fruit with chocolate is a must; but what makes everyone truly happy is this mascarpone and strawberry cake . A scenographic dessert that is perfect for special occasions and days in which you need to relax by spending a little time in the kitchen. Mascarpone and strawberry cake is perfect for celebrating a birthday or for preparing together with mum on occasion of her special day! Three layers of sponge, interspersed with a velvety cream with fresh strawberries. With its simplicity and inviting appearance, no one will be able to resist!
To prepare mascarpone and strawberry cake , start by making the sponge. Place the eggs, at room temperature, in the bowl of a planetary mixer, together with the sugar . Then start to beat them on a medium speed and in the meantime, sieve the flour together with the potato starch .
After whisking the eggs , add the powders and delicately stir from the bottom upwards, to avoid deflating the mixture, until fully absorbed.
Add the almond flour and stir delicately once more, to create a homogeneous and frothy mixture. Pour it into a 7 inch (18 cm) diameter mold that is 4 inches (10 cm) tall (8-9).
Delicately smooth the surface, without tapping the mold on the worktop. Now bake in a static oven on the middle shelf at 347 °F ( 175 °C) for 33 minutes. Once this time is up, check it is done using the toothpick test; remove the cake from the oven if ready . Wait a few minutes and while still hot, remove from the mold and turn it over onto a grille. Leave to cool thoroughly .
In the meantime prepare the dip. Place the water and sugar in a pan , add the peel of half a lemon and half an orange . Heat until the sugar fully dissolves. Now filter and leave to cool in a bowl.
Once the sponge cake has fully cooled, start to make the cream for the filling. Place the cream in a bowl, add the seeds of half a vanilla bean and the powdered sugar . Beat with an electric whisk into a firm and frothy cream .
Place the mascarpone in another bowl and stir a little with a spatula to soften it. Now gradually add the whipped cream and once more stir from the bottom up so as not to deflate the mixture . Place half of the cream inside a pastry bag with a striped 1/2 inch (1 cm) tip and place both creams in the refrigerator until you are ready to use them.
Now take the sponge cake, which will have cooled by now, and remove the outer crust on the surface using a long knife with a serrated blade. Cut out three discs of equal thickness by sliding the blade of the knife parallel to the worktop (23-24).
Now prepare the strawberries: delicately wash, hull and dice them . Now all you need to do is assemble the dessert. Place the sponge base on a plate, even better if a rotating one. Take the soak and dab it onto the cake base using a brush .
Use the pastry bag to apply half of the cream over the entire surface of the cake , add half of the strawberries and cover with a second sponge cake disc. Once more, cover the new base with the soak ,
add the remaining cream in the pastry bag and evenly distribute the strawberries over it. Place the last disc on top and apply the soak . Use the remaining cream to cover the entire outer edge .
Smooth with a spatula to fully coat the cake . Place back in the refrigerator and in the meantime, beat the cream with the powdered sugar . Cover the entire cake, once more using a spatula .
Once smooth and entirely covered , place the remaining cream in a pastry bag with a striped tip , Wash the strawberries and cut each one into four pieces .
Now coat the entire lower edge of the cake in the ground pistachio, to create a decorative effect on the base only (40-41). Squeeze a few tufts of leftover cream onto the surface .
Arrange the sliced strawberries on top and garnish with the ground pistachios . Now place in the refrigerator until you are ready to serve your mascarpone and strawberry cake .
You can store mascapone and strawberry cake in the refrigerator for 3 days. You can freeze the sponge cake base once nice and cold.
It is recommended that you prepare the sponge cake base the day before so that it is easier to work with; once cooled, store it at room temperature, in plastic wrap. You can replace the ground pistachio with shards of chocolate or almonds, or other decorations too.
If you prefer, instead of beating the cream separately, you could add it to the mascarpone cream right away and use it for the final decoration too.

