name:
White chocolate and lemon pound cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Butter: ⅔cup(145 g)- (soft, pomade)
Eggs: 1 ¾cup(230 g)- (about 4 at room temperature)
White chocolate: ¾cup(85 g)
Sugar: 1cup(130 g)
Acacia honey: 1tbsp(20 g)
Lemon juice: 1tbsp(15 g)
Lemon peel: 2tsp(10 g)
Baking powder: 1 ⅓tsp(6 g)
Fine salt: ⅓tsp(2 g)
Apricot jam: ⅔cup(70 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Water: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Lemon juice: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Water: 1 ¾tbsp(25 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 2 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Lemon pound cake is a simple but special dessert that is always appreciated by all. Together with Maestro Iginio Massari, we will show you how to turn it into a masterpiece of pastry making, with a few simple tricks. Lemon and white chocolate pound cake will be perfect for breakfast, a snack, or served as a dessert at the end of dinner. Making the dough is very simple: just blend all the ingredients together at the right temperature. The lemon juice will be completely absorbed, and its scent will spread through the air, slice after slice. The icing allows you to obtain a shiny cake, but at the same time serves to make it impermeable, so it remains soft for a long time. However, we are quite sure that you will not be able to test this out since the lemon and white chocolate pound cake will not be around long enough!
To prepare the lemon and white chocolate pound cake , first make sure all the ingredients are at room temperature of 75° F (24-25° C). Grate the lemon rind and squeez out the juice, then cut the chocolate into cubes . In a large mixer equipped with blades, pour in the eggs, sugar, lemon juice , salt ,
baking powder , grated lemon rind , white chocolate cut into cubes ,
butter , flour and honey .
Run the blades at maximum speed and mix everything for 2 and a half minutes until a smooth mixture is obtained . Butter and flour two 6x3-inch (16x8 cm) pans and transfer the dough inside, dividing it equally . Now dip a knife in melted butter ,
insert it in the center of the pound cake , move it gently and pull it out to create a cut. Do the same for the other. In this way it will rise evenly as it bakes. Bake the pound cakes in a static oven at 365° F (185° C) for 15 minutes, then at 330° F (165° C) for 30 minutes. Remove and let cool . In the meantime, prepare the lemon syrup. Pour the water and sugar into a saucepan.
Add the lemon zest with a knife and bring to a boil . In another bowl, pour the lemon juice .
When the syrup begins to boil, pour it unfiltered on the lemon juice while hot . Now make the icing. In another bowl pour the powdered sugar, water and stir with a whisk until all the lumps dissolve . The mix should be rather watery.
Pour the jam into a saucepan and bring it to a boil . Remove the pound cakes and put them on a rack placed on a baking tray. Using a brush, brush the surface and the sides with lemon syrup .
Brush the pound cakes with jam and then with the icing , covering the sides and the surface .
Transfer the cake back into the oven at 450° F (250° C) for 5 minutes until it is dry. Once baked, it should not be sticky when touched . Decorate to taste with candied citrus peel if desired , then serve your lemon and white chocolate and lemon pound cake .
The pound cake can be stored for 1 week at room temperature under a glass cloche. Alternatively, you can freeze it for about 1 month.
To make this cake, we used the principle of homogenization. Room temperature ingredients and using the mixer’s maximum speed will ensure the best results.
The icing makes the plumcake impermeable, so it will be softer and keep for a longer time.

