name:
Truffle fettuccine
ingredients:
Egg fettuccine pasta: 0.5lb(250 g)
Black truffle: 2oz(80 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
If you want to serve a refined dish that will win over even the most demanding of palates with an unmistakable aroma, then this first course is perfect for you! No complicated preparation required, just a few and meticulously selected ingredients: truffle fettuccine is a triumph of perfumes and flavors your guests will find hard to resist. Truffle, a precious underground mushroom loved by connoisseurs, is perfect for delicate flavored dishes like risotto or this egg pasta, but it is also delicious with poached egg, for filling vegetables like onions or served with a succulent fillet. However, there are a few expedients you should use to enhance the precious flavor of truffle, which is rather delicate to cook and store. The basic rule is to thoroughly remove all the soil and slice it very thinly, with a special truffle cutter, just a few minutes before serving, to preserve all its fragrance. You can use different types of truffle for the fettuccine we present you with; here we have chosen black summer truffle, but you could opt for Alba white truffle on a special occasion!
To prepare truffle fettuccine , start by cleaning the truffle. Thoroughly rinse under cold running water to remove any excess soil , then use a semi-stiff brush to remove all traces of impurities; carefully dry before placing it on a cutting board and cutting into slices .
Cut the truffle into very thin slices with a special truffle cutter and leave to one side. Heat the oil with the butter in a pan; dissolve the latter on a low flame.
Peel the garlic clove (also remove the germ inside it) and lightly brown in the pan with the oil and melted butter for a few minutes. Remove with a fork , then remove the pan from the heat and add the previously sliced truffle shards . Leave a few pieces to one side for garnishing the dish when ready.
Remove from the heat and coax the flavors of the sauce by delicately stirring the truffle shards ; in the meantime, cook the egg fettuccine pasta in abundant salted water . Drain when firm to the bite
and add to the truffle sauce ; stir thoroughly, add a little pasta cooking water if necessary, so that the sauce binds to the pasta . Serve the dish with a generous sprinkling of black truffle shards .
Truffle is a highly delicate ingredient. It can be stored in a fresh place for a short time (7-8 days at most), wrapped in a breathable gauze and sealed in a glass jar.
Before enjoying truffle , thoroughly clean it to remove all traces of soil, by rinsing and using a semi-hard brush. Tagliolini, tagliatelle or spaghetti? It's up to you, the result will be delicious whatever pasta you choose!
Truffle is a hypogeous or underground mushroom and the name comes from the Latin word tuber, which literally means bump in the ground: rather fitting, given their irregular shape. Truffle spontaneously develop in symbiosis with certain plants and are searched for by truffle pickers who use dogs that are specially trained for the task. Truffles can be black (like the Norcia or Perigold) or white (like the Alba or Piedmont).

