name:
Zucchini cordon bleu
ingredients:
Round zucchini: 1oz(300 g)
Provola cheese: 5oz(150 g)
Prosciutto cotto with herbs: 3oz(100 g)
Eggs: 4
Type 00 flour: 1cup(100 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(100 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
A melted and appetizing filling encased in two layers of meat: this is the traditional recipe for cordon bleu. We have enjoyed revisiting it in other tempting ways: from polenta cordon bleu to an eggplant version, all equally delicious. The success of this irresistible preparation inspired us to create another version: zucchini cordon bleu . To make these stuffed medallions, select some round zucchini that can be cut into slices that are perfect for encasing the filling, much like a sandwich. Right from the first bite you will discover one of the most popular fillings ever, featuring the timeless pairing of prosciutto cotto and provola cheese, although you can give your culinary imagination free rein and try combining new and tempting ingredients!
To make summer zucchini cordon bleu , start by cutting the tip and the bottom of the zucchini . Now slice into 0.2 inch (0.5 cm) slices using a mandoline slicer .
Slice the provola cheese too . Now top a slice of squash with the provola cheese and the prosciutto cotto .
Now close with another slice of zucchini, just like a sandwich . Prepare the bread coating: beat the eggs with a pinch of salt and pepper . Place the flour in another bowl and add the salt . Lastly, prepare a third bowl with breadcrumbs.
Now dip the stuffed zucchini in the flour , then in the beaten eggs and lastly, in the breadcrumbs .
Add a second layer coating by dipping the cordon bleu first in the egg and then in the breadcrumbs . As you coat the zucchini pieces, place them on a tray .
Now fry them: heat the seed oil in a deep pan to 330 °F (165 °C) (measure with a cooking thermometer) and add the cordon bleu pieces one at a time . Fry for around 2 minutes until golden. Drain on a tray lined with absorbent kitchen paper . Serve the zucchini cordon bleu nice and hot .
We recommend enjoying zucchini cordon bleu freshly made, to preserve the fragrance.
Enjoy zucchini cordon bleu served with a fresh sauce made with Greek yogurt, a pinch of salt and mint leaves.

