name:
Potato and gorgonzola tart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(370 g)
Butter: 1stick(150 g)- (room temperature)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3oz(100 g)
Eggs: 2(110 g)- (around 2 medium ones)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Gorgonzola cheese: ⅔cup(150 g)
Potatoes: 1lb(400 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 20 minutes of rest of the pasta and 40 minutes for cooking the potatoes

instructions:
A crunchy base, a soft filling and typical decorative lozenge pattern are distinguishing features of tarts. They can be sweet, like jam ones, ideal for breakfast and as a snack, or savory, like the one with ricotta cheese and zucchini, perfect with drinks or for dinner buffets. We love searching for tantalizing pairings and here we present you with this recipe for a potato and gorgonzola tart , a starter with an irresistible creamy filling, created for lovers of unique and distinctly flavored cheeses.
To make the potato and gorgonzola tart , start by boiling the potatoes until soft (this will take around 30-40 minutes). Prepare the shortcrust pastry in the meantime: place the pieces of butter at room temperature and the grated Grana Padano PDO cheese in a bowl . Knead rapidly by hand .
Now add the eggs , a pinch of salt and lastly, the flour . Knead by hand to incorporate all the ingredients .
Now place the dough on a pastry board lightly sprinkled with flour and shape into a smooth and homogeneous piece . Wrap it in plastic wrap and leave to rest in the refrigerator for 20 minutes.
In the meantime, peel the potatoes, place them in a bowl and mash them to make a puree ; now flavor with the grated cheese
and the salt . Stir to amalgamate and leave to one side. Take the shortcrust dough and roll it out with a rolling pin on a pastry board lightly sprinkled with flour, until around 0.2 inches (0.5 cm) thick . Wrap the shortcrust dough around the rolling pin .
Unroll the dough onto a 9.5 inch (24 cm) diameter tray . Define the edge by running a knife along it and removing any excess dough. Pierce the bottom with the prongs of a fork .
Fill with the potatoes and the gorgonzola cheese . Roll out the left over shortcrust dough and cut into strips that are around 0.2 inches (0.5 cm) wide .
Arrange the pastry strips on the tart so that they overlap, to create a lozenge pattern . Cut away any excess dough. Use the remaining shortcrust dough to form a strip the same length as the circumference of the mold . Position it along the edge and press down with the prongs of a fork to make sure it adheres to the tart, while also creating a decorative pattern .
The tart is ready to be baked . Bake in a ventilated oven preheated to 355 ° F (180 ° C) for 45 minutes. Once baked, remove the potato and gorgonzola tart from the oven and serve warm .
You can store the potato and gorgonzola tart in the refrigerator, in a sealed container, for 2-3 days at most. It can be frozen once baked.
Flavor the shortcrust pastry with thyme, rosemary or whatever herbs you prefer!

