name:
Carnival cassatelle
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(300 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Eggs: 2- soft (room temperature)
Sugar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Orange peel: 1
Lemon peel: 1
Marsala wine: 1tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(300 g)
Dark chocolate: 3oz(100 g)
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes to let the dough rest

instructions:
At Carnival anything goes, as long as it's sweet! Us Italians know this all too well, as we have invented a different fried sweet in every region, for enjoying on occasion of the most colorful and cheerful celebration of the year (or at other times): bugie, castagnole, tortelli, stuffed chiacchiere ...an infinite selection! With the Carnival cassatelle recipe, after the one for fried milk, let's take a virtual trip once more to sunny Sicily, where these sweets, similar to sweet ravioli and with a memorable flavor, will win us over. The fragrant puff pastry, fried a tantalizingly golden color, envelop a delicious and rich filling. Ricotta di pecora cheese and chocolate: a pairing true to Sicilian culinary tradition loved by everyone, and we're no exception! This is why we wanted to offer our take on this delicacy available in many different and equally delicious versions!
To prepare Carnival cassatelle , place the flour, sugar , a pinch of salt and 2 eggs at room temperature in a large bowl, along with the diced butter, cold but not straight from the refrigerator ,
flavor with the lemon peel and orange peel and lastly with the marsala wine .
Mix the ingredients by hand , collect the liquid and then place the dough on a pastry board ; knead until smooth and firm .
Cover with plastic wrap and leave to rest for 30 minutes out of the refrigerator. In the meantime, prepare the filling; finely chop the chocolate using a knife , be sure not to leave any large pieces because they could pierce the dough as it cooks. Place the ricotta di pecora cheese and sugar in a bowl,
flavor with the cinnamon and add the previously chopped chocolate . Thoroughly stir all the ingredients together using a fork .
Leave the filling to one side , take the cassatelle dough and divide it in half , then roll it out with the pasta making machine set to 7, for a thickness of around 0.04 inches.
After rolling the pastry out, divide the rectangle in half and cut into discs using a shaping ring mold with a 4.53 inch diameter . Place a spoon of the mixture in the middle of each disc , dab a little water around the edge to seal the dough around the filling.
Close the cassatelle to form a crescent shape and thoroughly seal the edges by pressing down with the back of your hand . Cut the edge of the semi-circle out with a serrated shaping ring mold and remove the part containing the filling, to create a decorated edge . Repeat until you finish the dough: with these amounts you'll make around 20 pieces. When ready you can fry your Carnival cassatelle: heat the seed oil in a deep pan and when it reaches 340 °F ( 170 °C) (measure with a cooking thermometer), delicately add a few cassatelle at a time so that the temperature of the oil doesn't drop too much.
Cook the cassatelle for around 3 minutes; once cooked , drain on absorbent paper . Leave to cool slightly before sprinkling the Carnival cassatelle with powdered sugar to taste, then serve!
Carnival Cassatelle are best enjoyed freshly made. We do not recommend freezing the uncooked dough.
If you do not like the decisive flavor of ricotta di pecora cheese, you can always replace it with the same amount of cow's ricotta.
The word cassatelle denotes different Sicilian sweets. In addition to these cassatelle, there is another oven-baked kind, typically served at Easter and characterized by a basket shape, also with a ricotta cheese filling. The famous C assatelle di Agira deserve a special mention, a typical pastry delicacy of Enna that has acquired denominazione comunale status as a typical recipe; they are also filled with cocoa.

