name:
Carnival roses
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(240 g)
Sugar: 2tbsp(20 g)
Eggs: 2(120 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)- soft
White wine: 2tsp(12 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste
Candied cherries: 8
Whole milk: 1cup(200 g)
Eggs: 1(60 g)
Sugar: 3tbsp(40 g)
Cornstarch: 2tbsp(12 g)
Lemon peel: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 18 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minuti di riposo dell'impasto

instructions:
Everyone knows that at Carnival anything fried goes! The day is eagerly awaited, with its majestic carts, costumes and above all, delicacies dedicated to the most light-hearted and sweetest celebration of the year. Together with masks and costumes, fried sweets are part and parcel of this tradition. We have tried all these delicacies: filled chiacchiere, cassatelle, castagnole, zeppole, ravioli, tortelli, bugie and now we add another inviting recipe to our tempting list: Carnival roses . These fun bite-sized sweets are characterized by a captivating puff pastry crafted into a rose bud shape, so that you can give the gift of a fragrant flower, for the sweetest Carnival trick ever!
To make Carnival roses , start with the dough: place the flour, sugar and softened butter in a bowl and crumble by hand. Add both eggs , mix and knead the ingredients together.
Now add the white wine , continue to knead and place the dough on a work top . Knead some more to obtain a smooth and thoroughly amalgamated dough .
Place the dough in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap and leave to rest for around 30 minutes at room temperature. Prepare the custard cream in the meantime: place the egg sugar and corn starch in a bowl,
beat the ingredients with a whisk by hand, then add the grated peel of an untreated lemon . Heat the milk in a saucepan
and once hot, add it to the bowl with the mixture you have just prepared ; stir and place the cream back on the stove . Continue stirring the cream with a spatula until nice and thick, then place it in a bowl
and cover with plastic wrap . The cream must be nice and cool before you use it. Once cooled, place it in a pastry bag with a serrated tip and leave in the refrigerator until you need to fill the roses. Go back to the dough, lightly sprinkle the work top with flour and roll the dough out with a rolling pin . Roll the dough out to obtain a pastry sheet that is 0.06 inches (1.5 mm) thick (it is recommended that you stick to this thickness to achieve a good end result).
Use three flower shaped ring molds to cut the pastry, respectively 4, 3 1/3 inches (8 cm) and 2 inches (5 cm) in diameter , to obtain 24 flowers . Heat the seed oil to 290°F (145°C) and measure the temperature with a kitchen thermometer. Using a brush, dab a little water in the middle of the biggest flower ,
add the medium-sized flower so that the petals of both flowers alternate , dab some more water in the middle and add the smallest flower, once more so that the petals are overlapping, to create an alternating pattern . In this way you will make 8 roses consisting of three different-sized flowers. Upon reaching the right temperature, immerse your roses in the oil one at a time and fry them while
holding the middle open with the handle of a serving spoon so that the rose does not lose its shape. All it takes is 1 and a half minutes to fry each rose until perfectly golden. Drain it with a skimmer and place it on a tray lined with absorbent paper. Leave your roses to cool, then sprinkle with a little powdered sugar ,
fill with the pastry cream and place a candied cherry on each rose . Serve your Carnival roses right away!
Store any roses you haven't filled in a paper bag, or cover them with tin foil. If filled, store in the refrigerator and enjoy within 2 days. They are best enjoyed freshly made, otherwise the pastry loses its characteristic crumbliness.
After making your roses , the dough cannot be used to make another batch it would be wrinkly, but you can still reuse it to make some sweet mal tagliati for frying and serving as delicious bites for dipping in melted chocolate.

