name:
Bomboloni
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Manitoba flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: 0.6cup(140 g)
Eggs: 4.2oz(120 g)- (2 medium)
Sugar: 3 ¼tbsp(40 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)- softened
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(15 g)
Fine salt: 1.1tsp(6 g)
Vegetable oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Pastry cream: 17.5oz(500 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 5 ½ hours of rising time

instructions:
Bomboloni are irresistible round and soft delights, fried sweets to enjoy for breakfast with a good cappuccino, as an alternative to Croissant or krapfen , or to savor as a snack or simply when you desire a sweet break. Soft like a cloud and with a creamy heart that always wins over both young and old, bomboloni are evergreen delights that know no trends or seasons, essential on the counters of pastry shops and cafes. Making them at home with our recipe will take a bit of time, but imagine the satisfaction of serving these delicacies made with your own hands! Fill the bomboloni with the creams you love most; here we chose the most classic one, pastry cream . Try them also in the lighter version, Baked Donuts !
And don't forget to include them in the Carnival sweets buffet, both fried and baked!
To prepare the bomboloni dough, place the all-purpose flour and Manitoba flour , sugar , and crumbled fresh yeast in a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook.
Start the mixer and slowly pour in the water , then add the beaten eggs a little at a time . When the dough starts to come together, add the salt . Let the mixer run at medium speed for about 3-4 minutes.
When the dough pulls away from the sides of the bowl, add the softened butter, one piece at a time , waiting for each piece to be absorbed before adding the next. Once all the butter is incorporated, knead the dough for another 10 minutes or so until it’s smooth and compact . Transfer the dough to a work surface, fold it a couple of times, and form a ball .
Place the dough in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let it rise at a temperature of 78°F-82°F for about 3.5 hours or until it has tripled in volume . After the rising time, transfer the dough to a lightly floured work surface .
Roll it out slightly with a rolling pin to form a rectangle about 3/4 inch thick . Fold one of the shorter sides , the left one, towards the center so that when you fold the other side, it aligns with the first fold .
Cover with plastic wrap and a kitchen towel and let rest for 10 minutes. After 10 minutes, rotate and roll out the dough again with the rolling pin, forming a rectangular shape .
Proceed with another 2 folds, starting with the right edge and then the left edge . Let the dough rest again for another 10 minutes, covered with plastic wrap and a kitchen towel. Repeat the folds and resting time (a total of 3 times).
After the resting time, roll out the dough on the work surface with the rolling pin to about 1/32 inch thick . Cover with plastic wrap and let rest for 10 minutes before cutting the dough because if cut immediately, it tends to shrink back . Using a 4-inch diameter round cutter, cut out circles of dough (alternatively, you can use the edge of a glass for cutting).
Transfer them to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper . Once ready, cover with plastic wrap. Let the bomboloni rise in a dry place for an hour and a half . In the meantime, prepare the pastry cream. After the necessary time, you will notice that the thickness of the bomboloni has increased. Cut the parchment paper around each bombolone , which will help to immerse them in the oil.
Pour the seed oil into a saucepan, heat it, and when it reaches the optimal frying temperature of 320°F, immerse the bomboloni one or two at a time, depending on the capacity of the pan, so as not to lower the oil temperature. Slide them from the parchment paper directly into the saucepan . Use a spoon to pour hot oil over the bombolone for even cooking. Fry the bomboloni for about 4 minutes, turning them gently halfway through with a slotted spoon. When they are well golden, drain them with the slotted spoon onto a tray lined with paper towels .
Let the bomboloni cool slightly, then fill them with pastry cream using a piping bag with a narrow, smooth nozzle . Dust the surface with powdered sugar to taste . Your delicious bomboloni are ready to be enjoyed !
It is recommended to consume the bomboloni immediately. If necessary, you can store them unfilled outside the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap or in a paper bag, for a maximum of a couple of days. If filled, they can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
We do not recommend freezing the raw dough as it will not rise properly once thawed.
Do not throw away the scraps of dough but let them rise for a few more minutes and then fry them to obtain small fried dough bites to roll in sugar and enjoy as a tasty snack!

