name:
Fennel au gratin
ingredients:
Fennel: 2lbs(1 kg)
Butter: 1stick(35 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(35 g)- (for sprinkling)
Whole milk: 1cup(300 g)
Butter: 1stick(30 g)
Type 00 flour: 5tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Forget about those drab school canteen meals with highly unpopular boiled vegetables, much to the dismay of all students! The dish we present you with today redeems a vegetable that tends to be avoided at tables: fennel au gratin ! We'll show you how you can turn an unloved dish into a succulent and tasty delicacy, with the humble fennel! I bet you're asking how? The secrets to this delicious dish are the velvety bechamel that envelops the vegetables, and the oven baked?vegetables for a crisp and invitingly golden coating. Is your mouth watering yet? Let's discover Manuel's recipe for fennel au gratin !

To make fennel au gratin , clean and tip the fennel, remove the base and outermost, tougher leaves; cut each one in half and wash under running water, then cut into large slices . Plunge the fennel in abundant hot salted water and blanch them for 5-6 minutes.
In a capacious pan melt 1 stick of butter on a low flame, drain the fennel thoroughly and once the butter has melted, add the vegetables to the pan to brown for another 5 minutes, turning them over occasionally so that a crust forms on both sides . Remove from the heat when done, and start preparing the bechamel. Heat the milk in a saucepan ,
in another saucepan melt the butter and gradually sprinkle in the sieved flour , stirring all the while with a whisk to prevent lumps from forming .
Now add the previously heated milk and continue to stir until the sauce thickens; add the salt and the nutmeg . Now take the previously browned fennel slices and place them on the bottom of a round baking tray that is big enough for the vegetables to be arranged in a single layer; we used a 10 inch tray. Arrange them in a circle along the edge and work your way towards the center .
Pour the bechamel over them , sprinkle with the grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese and bake in a static oven preheated to 392? for around 20-25 minutes (or in a ventilated oven at 356 °F (180 °C ) for 15-20 minutes), until a golden crust forms on the surface. Remove the fennel au gratin from the oven , leave to cool and then serve.
Fennel au gratin can be stored in the refrigerator in a sealed container for up to 2 days. The dish can be frozen too, as long as you have used nothing but fresh ingredients to make it.
Passionate about cheese? Replace the bechamel with a velvety Parmesan cream, with a rich and decisive flavor!

