name:
Hot white chocolate
ingredients:
Whole milk: 3cups(800 g)
White chocolate: ½cup(75 g)
Sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)
Cornstarch: 5tbsp(35 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Looking for a winter treat? We propose a chocolate dessert for those with an incurable sweet tooth: a deliciously velvety hot white chocolate . What better pick-me-up than some delicious traditional hot chocolate in the coldest of seasons? We'd like to tantalize your taste buds with a version as white as snow and with a delicate vanilla flavor that will warm your heart right from the first sip. Give in to the sweetness and treat yourself to a delicious break: enjoy some of our irresistible hot white chocolate . You could flavor it with a touch of mint, to make it even more special. If you really want to make this recipe irresistible, don't forget to serve some biscuits with your mug of hot white chocolate. We recommend these gluten-free ones, just like this recipe. You're in for a sweet treat!
To make hot white chocolate , start by grating the bar of white chocolate with a fine grater so that it is as fine as possible . Place the grated chocolate in a bowl, add the sugar and the corn starch .
Stir the powders : you now have the base for 4 mugs of hot chocolate. Now prepare one mug at a time. Add around 1 oz (28 g) of the powder mixture to one mug and gently temper 1 cup of milk cold from the refrigerator, then gradually pour it into the mug .
Stir with a spoon to obtain a homogeneous mixture, free from lumps . Now heat the mug in the microwave for around 2 minutes at 900 W; pause every 40 seconds and stir the mixture. In this way you will obtain a thick and creamy consistency . Enjoy your hot white chocolate right away !
To make hot white chocolate on the stove, you'll need to prepare the same powder mixture as the one used in the microwave version: grate a bar of white chocolate with a fine grater so that it is as fine as possible . Place the grated chocolate in a bowl, add the sugar and the corn starch .
Stir the powders : you now have the base for making 4 cups of hot chocolate. Place the milk in a saucepan and heat on a low flame , then gradually add the chocolate powder mixture .
Stir with a whisk to obtain a homogeneous mixture, free from lumps. Continue cooking on a low flame, stirring the mixture all the while, until the chocolate thickens, which will take around 5 minutes. Once the hot chocolate is ready , remove from the flame and pour into the mugs. Enjoy your hot white chocolate right away !
White hot chocolate is best enjoyed freshly made. It can also be stored in a sealed tin for around a month, away from light and heat sources. You can replace the corn starch with potato starch, although both have different thickening properties. Potato starch will create a more pudding-like consistency, if you prefer you can add just half of the recommended amount of corn starch!
Looking to add an aromatic touch to your hot white chocolate? Add some cinnamon powder or garnish with some dark chocolate shards or chopped hazelnuts. If you want you can replace the white chocolate with dark chocolate: use the following amounts for one mug: 1 cups of milk, 1.7 oz of dark chocolate, 0.3 oz of unsweetened cocoa powder, 0.3 oz of corn starch and 0.3 oz of sugar.

