name:
Migliaccio (semolina and ricotta cake)
ingredients:
Semolina: 7oz(200 g)
Milk: 2cups(500 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Water: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Eggs: 4(220 g)- medium
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Orange peel: 1
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + semolina cooking time

instructions:
To prepare the migliaccio , first cook the semolina. Combine milk, water , salt , and butter in a saucepan,
then add the orange zest and heat, stirring occasionally to melt the butter. Bring to a boil, then remove the orange zest and pour in the semolina, stirring continuously with a whisk . Lower the heat and simmer for about 4-5 minutes,
the time it takes for the mixture to thicken . Transfer to a baking dish to cool . Meanwhile, prepare the rest of the mixture: Strain the ricotta to make it soft and creamy , then remove the seeds from the vanilla bean by slicing it lengthwise and scraping out the insides with the tip of a small knife.
Combine the eggs, vanilla seeds, and sugar in a bowl, then whisk the ingredients together until the mixture is pale and smooth. Now gradually add the ricotta followed by the semolina, continuing to whisk . You should get an even mixture that’s well blended without any lumps.
Oil a 9-inch (24-cm) cake pan, line with parchment paper, then pour in the mixture and level the surface with a spatula . Bake in a conventional oven preheated to 390°F (200°C) for 60 minutes (if the top is well-browned after 40-50 minutes, cover with a sheet of foil and keep cooking). Your migliaccio is ready : Before cutting and serving, allow it to cool in the pan, then turn it out and dust the surface with powdered sugar to taste.
The migliaccio can be kept in the fridge for 3-4 days. Not suitable for freezing.
To make your migliaccio more even tastier, try adding some dark chocolate chips, frozen and dusted with flour, at the last minute. You can add flavor to the batter by adding a citrus liqueur, sultanas, pine nuts, or candied fruits.

