name:
Ricotta and chocolate fritters
ingredients:
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 5cups(500 g)
Butter: 1stick(100 g)
Egg yolks: 1-
Vanilla bean: 1-
Fine salt: 1pinch
Whole milk: 1cup(200 ml)
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: 2cups(400 g)-
Powdered sugar: 1cup(100 g)-
Orange peel: 1
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp
Dark chocolate chips: ⅔cup(100 g)
Lemon peel: 1-
Peanut seed oil: to taste-
Powdered sugar: to taste-

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 3 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 20 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 60 mins resting time

instructions:
Ricotta and chocolate fritters is a fried dessert, usually prepared during Carnival, with a sheep's milk ricotta cheese and chocolate drops filling. The chocolate flavor paired up so well with ricotta cheese, makes these ricotta and chocolate fritters a delicious dessert, so flavorsome and impossible to resist. The soft center of these sweet fritters, wrapped in a crisp, golden pastry, makes then truly irresistible. While usually served during Carnival, ricotta and chocolate fritters are also great for other occasions, like parties and birthdays.
Place the flour in a large bowl, then place the sugar in the middle, along with the pieces of soft butter, the seeds of the vanilla bean and a pinch of salt . Pour the milk into a jug, add the egg yolk and thoroughly emulsify. Start preparing the dough by hand, gradually adding the liquid and kneading all the while to thoroughly mix all the ingredients together. Place the dough on a work top and continue kneading by hand for around 10 minutes, until homogeneous and firm . Cover the dough with plastic wrap and leave to rest in a fresh and dry place for at least an hour (not in the refrigerator). In the meantime, prepare the filling: start by placing the ricotta cheese in a steel sieve to remove any lumps.
Now add the previously sieved powdered sugar, the grated lemon and orange peel, the egg yolk, the seeds of the vanilla bean , the cinnamon and lastly, the chocolate drops . Stir thoroughly.
Now roll out the pastry using a rolling pin (or a pastry rolling machine) to obtain a thin sheet and cut into squares around 8" x 4" (20x10 cm) in size, using a serrated wheel cutter. Dab the egg whites you saved for later along the edges of the rectangles using a brush and place a spoon of ricotta filling onto one side of each rectangle . Close the fritters and delicately press down along the edges to seal them. Heat abundant peanut seed oil in a pan, at 355°F/390°F (180°C/200°C), and start frying the fritters, three at a time, for around 3 minutes, until golden and crisp . Drain your ricotta and chocolate fritters and leave them to dry on some absorbent kitchen paper; sprinkle with powdered sugar before serving.
Store the fritters for no more than 1 day under a glass cake cloche. They can be frozen, only if fresh and no defrosted ingredients are used.
You can also try baking ricotta and chocolate fritters in a static oven preheated to 355°F (180°C); perhaps test times and temperature on one before preparing all the rest!

