name:
Pizza tongues
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1cup(100 g)
Water: 7tbsp(100 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: tsp(1 g)
Manitoba flour: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(200 g)
Water: 1cup(200 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(4 g)
Malt: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 1cup(250 g)
Prosciutto crudo: 4oz(120 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 2oz(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + leavening times (about 16 h)

instructions:
Pizza is good in any shape or form: round, in a tray, as a roll or folded. But have you ever tried pizza tongues ? They are usually served at bars, along with toasted sandwiches or panini, as a quick lunch, and are always popular with everyone! Together today we'll take a look at how to make them and discover all the secrets for baking them to perfection. We opted for a tomato, gorgonzola cheese and prosciutto crudo topping, but you can let your imagination run wild and customize each strip with whatever ingredients your guests prefer! To enrich a buffet and impress everyone, cut them into triangles!?
Discover more delicious Pizza recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare pizza tongues , start with the poolish: place the manitoba wheat, water and the crumbled yeast in a bowl . Stir with a fork or spatula for just enough time to amalgamate the ingredients.
Cover with plastic wrap and leave the poolish at room temperature for 12 hours. Once this time is up , place the poolish in a bigger bowl .
Add the water , the crumbled yeast and stir with a spatula .
Now add both the flours and stir once more with a spatula . Once you have created a homogeneous mixture, add the malt ,
the oil , the salt and knead by hand .
Place it on a work top and without adding any flour, knead for ten minutes or so , until smooth. If too sticky, leave the dough to rest for a few minutes before kneading . Roll the dough into a ball
and move it to a lightly greased and capacious bowl, possibly wooden. Cover with plastic wrap and leave to leaven for 3 hours at room temperature. Once the dough is nice and leavened , place it on a pastry board .
Divide it into 4 portions, each 7 oz (200 g), using a spatula . Round each piece, using a dash of flour . Cover with a cloth and leave to rest for 30 minutes .
Once this time is up, press down on the dough balls and delicately spread them into strips, by hand . If they shrink, leave them to rest for a little while longer, covered with the cloth. Now place the peeled tomatoes in a bowl and press them with the back of a fork .
Add salt and oil for flavor . Place the first pizza strip onto an oven tray: if big enough, you can bake a couple of strips at the same time, but bear in mind that they will grow during baking. Use a spoon to spread the tomato over the pizza strip, but leave a space around the edge . Bake in a ventilated oven preheated to 410 °F (210 °C), for 15 minutes.
Now remove the pizza strips from the oven and add the gorgonzola cheese using a knife .
Bake for another 5 minutes, once more at the temperature indicated, until the cheese has melted. Now remove from the oven , add the prosciutto crudo and serve your pizza tongs .
Pizza strips can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. We recommend heating them up before serving, and adding the prosciutto at the last moment.?
Alternatively, they can be frozen after baking, once more without the prosciutto.?
Enrich pizza tongues with whatever ingredients you love: for example, you could use burrata cheese instead of gorgonzola, or replace the prosciutto with grilled zucchini or artichokes!?

