name:
Carrot risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 2cups(400 g)
Vegetable broth: 4cups(1 l)
Carrots: 1lb(380 g)
Taleggio cheese: 5oz(150 g)
Fresh scallion: 2oz(70 g)
Butter: ½stick(40 g)
Thyme: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 18 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus the time to prepare the broth

instructions:
Risotto is one of those dishes that is perfect for every occasion. Without a doubt saffron risotto is the most classic example, typically served with marrowbones in Lombardy, but there are truly countless ways of preparing a good risotto! Today we present carrot risotto , a delicate yet flavorsome recipe! The sweetness of carrots is exalted by the flavor of the cheese used for creaming the risotto. For a decisive note we chose a typical Northern Italian cheese: taleggio. Thanks to this cheese, the risotto will be much creamier, with a truly special taste! A match made in heaven, for a unique dish, suitable for any occasion!
If you love risotto don't miss these recipes:
To prepare carrot risotto, start by making the vegetable broth. When ready, keep it hot and peel the carrots . Cut them into sticks and then into pieces, each around 0.4 inches (1 cm) in size .
Peel and finely slice the spring onion . Melt the butter in a saucepan , add the spring onion
and the carrots . Add a ladle of vegetable broth and leave to sweat for around ten minutes; add more squash if necessary. One the time is up, remove a spoon of the cooked vegetables
and place in the mixer glass, along with a ladle of vegetable broth and leave to one side. Place the rice in the saucepan with the cooked vegetables and stir to toast it .
Continue adding broth when necessary, until the rice is fully cooked . In the meantime, remove the crust from the taleggio cheese and dice it ;
Blend the cooked vegetables you left to one side with an immersion mixer . When the rice is nearly done, add the cream , add salt to taste and stir .
Once cooked, remove the saucepan from the stove, add the diced cheese and stir . Put the lid on and wait 1-2 minutes ,
then add the black pepper and thyme leaves . Stir one last time and serve your carrot risotto nice and hot .
Carrot risotto can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
If any risotto is left over, add some Parmigiano Reggiano and heat in the oven.

