name:
Chocolate cupcake
ingredients:
Butter: 1stick(120 g)- soft, room temperature
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Dark chocolate: ½cup(80 g)
Sugar: cup(120 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Whole milk: 3tbsp(40 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 3tbsp(20 g)
Baking powder: ½tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Today let's prepare one of the true classic American sweets: chocolate cupcakes ! Perfect served for breakfast, as a snack, or even for a birthday buffet and other special occasions! Chocolate cupcakes are also great for decorating with simple or colored butter cream , or other toppings, to create effects that are always different and perhaps create a contrast with the chocolate dough. We've already found lots of occasions for decorating our chocolate cupcakes : spiderweb cupcakes for Halloween, heart ones for Valentines Day and multicolored carnival ones too! Let us know how you'll prepare yours!
Try these recipes too:
To prepare chocolate cupcakes , start by mixing all the powders together in a bowl: sieve the flour, the yeast and then the unsweetened cocoa powder . Finely chop the dark chocolate
and melt in a bain-marie (or in the microwave), then leave it to one side . Place the butter in a bowl (softened at room temperature), along with the sugar and beat the mixture with an electric whisk .
Now incorporate the eggs, one at a time , beating with the whisk all the while: you'll need to create a frothy and firm mixture. Add the butter and sugar, then the milk and the melted dark chocolate ;
stir thoroughly together with the whisk (10-11) and last of all, gradually add the powders by sieving them through a colander . Stir with a spatula in a circular motion from the bottom up.
Stir with the spatula until the cupcake dough becomes homogeneous . Now you can add some chopped hazelnuts or chocolate drops to your cupcakes, to make them even more morish. Place the dough in a pastry bag without a nozzle (14-15).
Place the paper cups in a muffin mold and fill each one 3/4 to the top by squeezing the pastry bag (16-17). Bake in a static oven preheated to 355 °F ( 180 °C) for 15-20 minutes. Check they are done by piercing with a toothpick, which should come out clean. Remove from the oven, leave to cool ...and here they are: your chocolate cupcakes are ready!
Store chocolate cupcakes under a glass cake cloche for 4-5 days. If you have decorated your cupcakes with cream, store in the refrigerator for no longer than 3 days. Cupcakes can be frozen once baked.
If you want to garnish these delicious cupcakes, apart from the classic butter cream or meringue butter cream (which you'll find in the same info sheet as the butter cream on our website), you can prepare a simpler cream that is just as delicious: mix together 1 cup of spreadable cream cheese, 1 cup of mascarpone, 1.3 oz (40 g) of sugar and a sachet of vanillin; for a touch of color, divide it into bowls, one for each color you want to use.

