name:
Parigina
ingredients:
Type 0 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Water: 1cup(310 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(6 g)
Sugar: 1tsp(5 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 5cups(800 g)
Cooked ham: 5oz(150 g)- slices
Caciocavallo cheese: 10oz(300 g)
Puff pastry: 8oz(230 g)- (1 rectangular roll)
Whipping cream: 2tbsp
Egg yolks: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 35 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + leavening time (about  3.5 h )

instructions:
A soft base, a rich and melted filling and an ultra-fragrant surface! These are just 3 of the essential adjectives for describing a parigina . Let's take things one step at a time. What is it? It is a rustic pizza, so basically the classic dough used for making pizza margherita. However, it is also a filled, or stuffed pizza, as they would say in Naples, with quite a characterizing topping: tomato, cheese and cooked ham. Lastly, there's a layer of puff pastry. As strange as this addition may sound, the puff pastry is actually what makes it so popular. Parigina pizza is a product that is difficult to find in pizza restaurants in the evening. You are more likely to come across it in delis and bars, ready to be enjoyed as a snack or a quick lunch. Parigina wins everyone over with its simplicity and flavor; it is one of the most highly appreciated street foods by our Neapolitan friends. We will now explain how you can make it at home too. Fire up your stove and let's get started!
To prepare parigina pizza, start with the pizza dough: place the water at room temperature in a bowl and dissolve the yeast by stirring with a fork . Place the flour and sugar in a bowl and stir by hand
before gradually adding the water with the yeast . Slowly incorporate and knead by hand until the dough takes shape .
As soon as the dough takes shape, gradually add the oil . Add half, then the salt , incorporate, and now add the remaining part of the oil. Knead once more to obtain a homogeneous mixture .
Place it on a pastry board and continue to knead for another 10-15 minutes . Gently roll the dough into a smooth and homogeneous ball; if too soft, add a pinch of flour. Now place the ball in a large container , cover with plastic wrap and leaven at a temperature of 82°F ( 27 °C) for around 3 hours .
In the meantime, drain the peeled tomatoes and leave them to rest for a few minutes so that they become nice and dry . Now remove the rind of the caciocavallo and thinly slice the cheese . Once drained, the tomatoes should weigh around 1 lb (500 g) .
Press them down with a fork, or finely chop them with a knife . Once leavened, the dough should triple in volume: remove the wrap and place it on a previously greased 12x15 inch (32x38 cm) oven tray. Spread the dough out with your fingers, but don't worry too much if it shrinks: persist, without making a hole or tearing it .
Cover the dough once more and leave to rest for twenty minutes or so . Once this time is up, remove the plastic wrap and sprinkle the tomatoes over the entire surface, leaving around an inch or so free around the edges . Now coat with the slices of cooked ham .
Add the sliced caciocavallo cheese : try to evenly cover the entire surface . Lastly, spread the puff pastry and try to obtain a rectangle that is large enough to cover the pizza .
Place the puff pastry over the pastry, even out the edges and perforate the surface with the prongs of a fork . Place the egg yolk and cream in a bowl and stir , then dab this mixture onto the surface with a brush .
Bake in a static oven preheated to 392 °F (200°C) for around 30-35 minutes . Once the baking time is up , remove the pizza and leave it to cool for 5 minutes. Remove the parigina from the tray and cut it into 12 pieces with a serrated knife .
Parigina can be stored for a couple of days in the refrigerator in a sealed container, but ideally it should be enjoyed freshly made. If you prefer, and if you have used fresh ingredients only, you could even freeze it: the best way is to bake for half of the cooking time, leave it to cool, freeze and then finish baking from frozen.
Be sure to thoroughly drain the tomatoes to prevent the water from making your parigina pizza dough soggy. Instead of prosciutto cotto use whatever salami you prefer: Neapolitan salami or spianata calabrese. The same goes for the cheese: drained mozzarella or smoked provola instead of caciocavallo. Or you could opt for another tried and tested pairing; sausage and turnip greens!
Parigina pizza is very much the status symbol of leavened Neapolitan street food, but there are still lots of other delicacies to be discovered.
The origins of parigina are uncertain and two different versions lay claim to it. According to the first, it was originally created back in the 70s, in an Afragola deli, in the province of Naples, as a rustic pizza. The second takes us back to the age of the Kingdom of the two Sicilies, when the French sovereign, the King's consort, apparently exclaimed "pe' 'a reggina", which in Neapolitan, sounds like " pa'rigin ".

