name:
Potato calzoni
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1lb(500 g)
Potato starch: 1cup(125 g)
Instant yeast for salted preparations: 1tsp(3 g)
Eggs: 1(55 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Spinach: 0.5lb(250 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 3oz(100 g)
Provola cheese: 3oz(100 g)- grated
Prosciutto cotto: 3oz(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Dried chili pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Potato calzoni is a morish starter inspired by fried panzerotti : they are similar in shape but smaller, with a difference in the dough. They are made with boiled potatoes, perhaps those left over from last night's dinner, or from making gnocchi ! These bundles contain two appetizing fillings: spinach and provola cheese, prosciutto and cheese! Let your imagination inspire interesting pairings for your fillings! You won't need to know how to store potato calzoni ...there won't be any left over!
Try also our panzerotti filled with spicy salami, mozzarella and tomato sauce and other pizzas and focaccia recipes!
To make potato calzoni, boil the unpeeled potatoes until soft . Mash the potatoes while still hot using a potato masher, then place the puree in a large bowl . Add the potato starch and instant baking powder .
Now add an egg and amalgamate the ingredients . Flavor with the salt and pepper and knead by hand until smooth and even. Lastly, add the oil .
Let the dough absorb the oil , then leave to one side. Add a drizzle of oil to a large pan, followed by the previously washed spinach .
Add salt and flavor with the dry peperoncino . Stir and cook on a medium flame for around 10 minutes. When cooked , place the spinach in a baking tray and leave to cool .
Roll the potato dough out on a pastry board lightly sprinkled with potato starch , until around 0.2 inches (1/2 cm) thick . Use a 4.3 inch (10 cm) diameter shaping ring mold to cut out 6 discs .
Fill half of the discs with the lukewarm spinach and grated pulled curd cheese . Fold each disc over and close to form a crescent shaped bundle . Press down lightly along the edge to seal thoroughly.
Fill the remaining discs with the diced mozzarella and the prosciutto cotto . Close to form a crescent shape and seal thoroughly .
Heat abundant oil in a large pan (cover the bottom with around 0.4 inches (1 cm) of oil). Once hot, place the bundles in the pan and cook for around 10 minutes; turn them over to check they are golden .
Drain the calzoni and place them on a tray lined with absorbent paper . Serve the potato calzoni nice and hot !
Potato calzoni can be stored in the refrigerator for one day. Freezing is not recommended.
Sprinkle some potato starch on the pastry board so that it's easier to roll the dough out.
Potato starch can be replaced by the same amount of corn starch.
Oven baking is not recommended as the calzoni tend to become too dry. Alternatively, you could try steaming them.

