name:
Gnocchi with stracchino and spinach
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2lbs(1 kg)
Type 00 flour: 3cups(300 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Fine salt: to taste
Stracchino cheese: 1cup(200 g)
Spinach: 1lb(400 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(20 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 3tbsp(40 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- for grating
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the preparation time of the gnocchi

instructions:
Thursday is gnocchi day! The tradition of Rome reserves this day of the week for this delicious first course that can be prepared in thousands of different ways. These small potato gems can be flavored with lots of delicious sauces: ragu, pesto and 4 cheese sauce; lots of different ingredients can be added to the dough too, for an extra touch of color and flavor gnocchi with stinging nettles, pumpkin or the more unusual ones made with purple potatoes. Today we add another recipe to this vast range of delicacies: gnocchi with stracchino cheese and spinach , served in an irresistibly creamy sauce. Get ready to knead that dough: follow our tips and whether it's Thursday or not, these delicious gnocchi are tasty every day of the week!
Discover more delicious Gnocchi recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare gnocchi with stracchino cheese and spinach , start by preparing the potato gnocchi. Boil the potatoes for around 30-40 minutes from when the water starts to boil, depending on how big they are, and pierce with a fork, which should slide in easily if they are done; drain when ready. Skin them while hot and mash them using a potato masher, then place the puree on the flour you will have already placed on the pastry board . Now add the egg and a pinch of salt.
Knead by hand to obtain a soft but firm dough . Take a part of the dough and roll it into 0.8 inch (2 cm) thick strips with your fingertips . In the meantime, cover the remaining dough with a cloth so that it does not dry out.
Cut the strips into slices , take each piece and lightly press it against a gnocchi shaper with your thumb to make the classic shape . If you don not have a gnocchi shaper, you can use a fork and drag it over the prongs. Leave the gnocchi to one side and start preparing the sauce Heat a drizzle of olive oil in a pan ,
add the previously washed spinach , cover with the lid and leave to sweat for 10 minutes on a low flame; stir occasionally. In the meantime, bring a saucepan filled with water to the boil, which you'll need for cooking the gnocchi in. Once the spinach is cooked ,
place them on a cutting board, be careful not to burn yourself; leave them to cool slightly before finely chopping them with a knife , then leave them to one side. Place the fresh liquid cream in the same pan you used to cook the spinach, along with the coarsely chopped stracchino cheese . Heat on a medium flame so that the cheese melts to form a cream .
Now add the finely chopped spinach and stir . Cook the gnocchi for a few minutes in the simmering water (so that they don't break up); they are ready as soon as they come to the surface. Drain with a skimmer, place them directly in the sauce
and stir delicately to flavor them . Serve gnocchi with stracchino cheese and spinach nice and not, add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano and pepper to taste. The gnocchi are ready to be enjoyed !
We recommend you enjoy gnocchi freshly prepared. The sauce can be stored for a couple of days in the refrigerator, covered in plastic wrap. You could even freeze uncooked gnocchi; place them on a small tray in the freezer and after around 20 minutes put them in a freezer bag, in this way they will not stick together. Simply place them in slated boiling water, without defrosting them.
Before making the cream you can brown some speck julienne to add a touch of color and a smoky hint to your dish!

