name:
Roasted vegetables
ingredients:
Potatoes: 10oz(300 g)
Zucchini: 8oz(250 g)
Carrots: 7oz(200 g)
Eggplant: 3oz(100 g)
Red peppers: 1
Red onions: 1
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(50 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1oz(50 g)- for grating
Breadcrumbs: 2tbsp(15 g)
Parsley: 1sprig
Salt: to taste
Pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
With their infinite palate of colors and tastes, vegetables enrich any dish: from the most morish of starters, like zucchini flowers in batter, to rich and hearty single dishes, like eggplant parmigiana. An unmissable pairing with meat and fish-based second courses, vegetables are also delicious prepared in the simplest of ways, just like in this recipe of ours: roasted vegetables . A bright and cheerful mix of diced summer vegetables, flavored with an aromatic breadcrumb coating that will develop an irresistible crust once baked. Simple and bursting with goodness, this appetizing side dish is perfect served with oven roasted fish fillets or oven roasted ribs!?
To make roasted vegetables , start by washing and drying all the vegetables; peel the potatoes and cut them into 0.8 inch (2 cm) pieces . Tip the zucchini and cut them into small pieces of equal size, just like with the potatoes.
Do the same with the eggplants (4-5). Cut the peppers in half, remove the pith and seeds
and cut into small, 0.8 inch (2 cm) pieces . Tip the carrots and cut into 0.8 inch (2 cm) slices . Peel and thickly slice the onion, then cut each slice into four pieces .
Finely chop the fresh parsley and leave to one side. Grease a baking tray with the oil and add all the vegetables along with the garlic cloves.
Saute the ingredients and add a drizzle of olive oil , then stir to flavor.
Now place the breadcrumbs, grated cheese and finely chopped parsley in a bowl and stir with a spoon to mix the ingredients together .
Sprinkle the breadcrumb mixture over the vegetables (19-20) and bake in a conventional oven preheated to 355째F (180째C) for 80 minutes. Set the oven to grill and bake for another 10 minutes at 390째F (200째C), so that a golden crust forms on the surface, Once baked, remove your roasted vegetables from the oven and leave them to cool slightly before serving .
You can store roasted vegetables in the refrigerator in a sealed container, for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
This recipe uses summer vegetables, but you can vary them based on seasonal availability: pumpkin and mushrooms in the winter, cardoon and cauliflower in the winter, asparagus and artichokes in the spring: choose your favorite mix!

