name:
Eggplant and sausage pasta
ingredients:
5-grain spaghetti  pasta: 11oz(320 g)
Eggplant: 11oz(320 g)
Sausage: 14oz(400 g)
Carrots: 4oz(120 g)
Celery: 2oz(60 g)
Leeks: 3oz(100 g)
Basil: to taste
Sweet Paprika: ½tsp(1 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Sausage and eggplants have often featured as the undisputed stars of important recipes, including ragout for delicious gnocchi, and legendary Norma sauce. Today we'll further consolidate this match made in heaven, with this eggplant and sausage pasta . A rich and hearty condiment for a pasta dish that will also be a feast for the eyes! Give in to this pairing, featuring roasted eggplants and pan-fried sausage: you'll fall in love for sure! Today we'll prepare the recipe for eggplant and sausage pasta... enjoy your lunch!
Discover our pasta with Rigatoni with spinach, sausage, and robiola ?and our pasta with pan-fried zucchini and salamella , or the typical pasta alla norcina , with sausage and ricotta!
To prepare eggplant and sausage pasta , start by washing and tipping the egg plant ; cut in half, then into slices lengthwise , and then into dices that are around 0.4 inches each .
Arrange them on an oven tray lined with parchment paper and add a drizzle of oil , a pinch of salt, pepper and basil leaves , then stir .
Bake in a static oven preheated to 428 F for around 10 minutes; leave to one side once ready . Peel and tip the carrots . Now cut them into thin strips
and then into very small cubes . Now do the same with the celery and lastly, thinly slice the leek . Cleaning it is very simple: simply tip both ends, cut into it vertically and remove the two outermost layers.
Heat a saucepan with water for the pasta, and add a generous drizzle of oil to a pan, followed by the leek . Add the celery and the carrot .
Leave to brown for a few moments and stir frequently, before adding the coarsely chopped sausage, removed from the casing . Stir occasionally while pan frying, and press it down with the back of a wood spoon, so that it crumbles into small pieces . Cook for around 25-30 minutes. In the meantime, bring the water to the boil, add salt and then the spaghetti .
Towards the end of the cooking time, so when the sausage is thoroughly browned, flavor with the paprika , the hand-torn basil leaves and lastly, the eggplant .
Add a ladle of pasta cooking water to dilute the sauce and as soon as the spaghetti are firm to the bite, drain and add them to the pan straight away . Briefly toss your eggplant and sausage pasta : now it is ready to be enjoyed !
Eggplant and sausage pasta can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days, although it is best not to prepare the pasta dish so far ahead. The sauce can be frozen if only fresh ingredients are used to make it.
Serve your eggplant and sausage pasta with a sprinkling of grated salted ricotta! To enhance the flavor of pork, add some chopped black olives.

