name:
Tortellini with ham and cream
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ½cups(400 g)
Eggs: 4
Butter: 1tbsp(15 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Pork: 2.5oz(70 g)- ground
Veal: 2.5oz(70 g)
Mortadella: 2.5oz(70 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1 ⅓cup(150 g)- grated
Prosciutto cotto: 2.5oz(70 g)
Eggs: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Prosciutto cotto: 0.66lb(300 g)- in one slice
Whipping cream: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Nutmeg: 1pinch
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: to taste- grated

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 2 h 35 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + resting time for the fresh pasta

instructions:
"What fine food is the Bolognese tortellini : served in a capon broth, you eat it in one bite. If you add cream or ragu sauce to it, you'll enjoy it even more!" Even on the internet, you will find a flurry of playful rhymes paying homage to the pretty jewel of fresh pasta stuffed with meat. This one in particular seemed perfect to us to introduce tortellini with ham and cream , one of the most traditional and tasty dishes for a delicious Sunday lunch! Of course, the recipe in which they are cooked in broth is a classic. In fact, purists consider it to be the only real way to serve Bolognese tortellini. But discover the pleasure of savoring them with delicious fresh cream and soft, diced baked ham. Add a sprinkle of Parmesan to make them even more tasty. To prepare the tortellini, gather the whole family together, as they used to do in the old days: the sincerity and satisfaction of making them by hand will give your tortellini with ham and cream an even more unique and authentic flavor!
To prepare the tortellini with ham and cream, start with fresh egg pasta : place the flour on a work surface and create a mound with a well in the center. Pour the eggs into the well. Break them with a fork, picking up the flour around them gradually until they are absorbed. Knead the mixture with your hands until the dough is soft and smooth , then cover it with plastic wrap and let it rest for about 30 minutes in a cool place.
In the meantime prepare the meat filling : cut the veal and the pork loin into coarse pieces and set them aside then repeat with the prosciutto and mortadella .
Melt the butter in a large pan then add both the pork loin and the veal chunks : brown for about 10 minutes or until the meat has released its juices. Let it cool. In a food processor add the prosciutto crudo mortadella and browned meat now at room temperature . Blend until you obtain a homogeneous mixture then add the Parmesan cheese ,
nutmeg pepper to taste and the egg . Run the food processor again to mix all the ingredients . Add salt if necessary (both the ham and Parmesan cheese are quite salty), transfer the mixture to a bowl and let it cool completely. At this point take the fresh pasta and roll it out with a rolling pin (or a pasta machine) . You will need to make a thin sheet trying to preserve the moisture (do not overdo it when dusting with flour to roll it out it more easily). According to traditional rules the sheet should be about 0.6 mm thick (slightly less than half the thickness of a dime).
Using a smooth pastry cutter, remove the irregular edges (keep the scraps in plastic wrap film to usue later) and cut out squares measuring 1.6 inches (4 cm) per side . In the middle of each square of pasta, lay about .07 oz (2 g) of filling, now cold . Now you can start making tortellini pasta: take a square and fold it into a triangle, matching up the edges without pressing too hard (if the dough has dried slightly, lightly brush the edges with a little water) .
Pinch the two corners at the base of each tortellino with your thumb and index finger and twist the edges around your index finger exerting light pressure with your your thumb . Gently pull the tortellino off your finger and continue in the same way for all the others. Place the finished tortellini on a lightly floured cloth as you go. Let the tortellini pasta rest in a cool place.
Now it's time to prepare the sauce : first, slice the ham into strips, then into cubes . Melt the butter in a very large pan and brown the ham for a few seconds .
Pour in the cream and mix it all together . Sprinkle with nutmeg and season with salt and pepper to taste. Cook the tortellini pasta in a large pot with plenty of water salted to taste .
When they are cooked, drain and transfer them to the pan with the sauce . Stir briefly over low heat then serve the tortellini with ham and cream sprinkled with grated Parmesan cheese if you like !
Keep the tortellini with ham and cream in the refrigerator for up to 1 day.
The freshly made tortellini pasta can be frozen on a lightly floured tray separated from each other for 30 minutes and then collected in a freezer bag. If you do not want to freeze them, dry them well and store them for a day in the fridge in an airtight container.
Cream and ham .. but also mushrooms or peas! You can season your tortellini as you like, even using speck if you like a stronger flavor!

