name:
Zucchini pesto
ingredients:
Zucchini: 7oz(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ⅔cup(125 g)
Fine salt: ⅓tsp(2 g)
Pine nuts: 3tbsp(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(30 g)- for grating
Basil: 1tbsp(10 g)
Pecorino cheese: 1oz(30 g)- for grating

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes for draining the zucchini

instructions:
Zucchini pesto is a delicious and fragrant condiment. It is ideal for enriching toast and starters, not to mention a perfect pasta sauce. This version is very different from your usual traditional pesto and never fails to intrigue: unlike Genoese pesto , its added value lies in its note of freshness, thanks to the raw zucchini! Served with Shrimps, salmon, goat cheese or dried tomatoes, zucchini pesto turns every first course into a unique and creamy dish. With summer just around the corner, you won't be able to do without it... this delicate cream will win you over with its flavor: it is quick to prepare and you won't even have to switch the stove on.
Check out our variations of pesto:
Discover more delicious Sauces recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare zucchini pesto , wash and tip the zucchini , then use a grater with large holes to grate them . Place the grated zucchini in a colander , add a little salt and leave them to rest for 30 minutes, to drain the excess liquid.
Now place them in a mixer together with the pine nuts and basil leaves, previously cleaned using a dry cloth .
Add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese , the Pecorino cheese and a part of the oil . Now turn the mixer on and blend for a few seconds.
Add the remaining part of the oil and blend to obtain a homogeneous cream . Place the mixture in a bowl and use the zucchini pesto as required.
Zucchini pesto can be stored in the refrigerator, covered by a layer of oil, for 2 days. Or you could prepare handy single-portions for freezing and using whenever needed.
You can enrich zucchini pesto with walnuts, pistachios or mint leaves.

