name:
Zucchini and scamorza risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 2cups(320 g)
Zucchini: 1lb(400 g)
Smoked scamorza cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fresh scallion: 1
Vegetable broth: 1quart(1 l)
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the preparation time of the vegetable broth

instructions:
Zucchini risotto is a creamy and delicate first course, perfect for preparing and serving in spring. We've even added a stretched curd cheese to make it even more appetizing and today we bring you the recipe for zucchini and scamorza risotto ! Simple and strong in flavor, thanks to the smoky cheese note, it is ideal for sharing with family and friends; it can also be paired with a second course that is just as easy to make and delicious, turkey cutlet or potato omelette, for those who prefer to stick to vegetarian options. With zucchini and scamorza risotto , a little will go along way towards making your menu special. Try making it and let us know whether you prefer this version with scamorza or the one with stracchino!
To make zucchini and scamorza risotto , start by preparing the vegetable broth and keep it hot. In the meantime, slice the ingredients you'll need: thinly slice the spring onion and cut the zucchini into four lengthwise and then into triangles .
Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, add the spring onion and brown for a couple of minutes. Add the rice and toast for at least another couple of minutes, stirring all the while .
Now add the zucchini , salt and the hot broth, one ladle at a time, wait until it is completely absorbed before adding any more .
In the meantime, finely dice the scamorza . Once the rice is cooked and creamy, remove from the heat and add the pepper and the finely chopped parsley .
Last off, add the scamorza and stir until nice and thick . Place on plates and garnish with a drizzle of raw oil. Serve your zucchini and scamorza risotto immediately !
Zucchini and scamorza risott o can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you want to make the dish even richer, you can add some diced ham! If you prefer a more aromatic version, replace the parsley with mint and add half a teaspoon of turmeric.

