name:
Roman-style tripe
ingredients:
Tripe: 4.4lbs(1.5 kg)- blanket tripe
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: to taste
Peeled tomatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- San Marzano
Carrots: 1
White onions: ½
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
White wine: 2.5oz(70 g)
Mint: to taste- Roman
Fine salt: to taste
Ground black pepper: to taste
Dried mint: to taste
Fat of prosciutto crudo: 1.8oz(50 g)
Coarse salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Roman-style tripe is a main course from the traditional cuisine that evokes timeless flavors, still very much appreciated today. Without a doubt, tripe is the queen of humble cuisine, which originated from the need to transform poverty into nobility at the table, bestowing the simplest ingredients with a touch of exquisiteness. Our country boasts numerous dishes, recognized and appreciated from north to south, and as often happens, there are different versions of the same recipe depending on the region. Roman-style tripe is one of these, typical of Lazio, which contrasts with other well-known versions, such as Florentine tripe , Neapolitan tripe, with beans , Bolognese tripe, and even the famous version of Milanese tripe (busecca) . Claudio and Fabrizio Gargioli, owners of Armando at the Pantheon , share their family recipe here, a staple of their historic restaurant. Like many other typical Lazio recipes, Roman-style tripe retains rich flavors and intense aromas, such as Pecorino Romano and mint, confirming that enhancing typical recipes has always been about using local products.
For hearty dishes like this, also try the delicious Florentine street food: Lampredotto
To prepare Roman-style tripe, start by cutting the cleaned tripe into strips . Place it in a pot, cover with water .
Add coarse salt , a carrot, and half an onion , cover with the lid and cook for 30-40 minutes over medium-low heat .
In the meantime, prepare the sauce: in another pot, pour a bit of oil, add the ham fat and let it fry . Then add the peeled tomatoes .
Salt and cook for 20 minutes. Meanwhile, the tripe will be cooked , drain it, and remove the carrot and onion .
Pour the oil , the wine , and flavor with dried mint . Let it sizzle for a few moments, stirring.
Remove the ham fat from the sauce . Add the sauce to the tripe , stir to blend and flavor . Continue cooking for another 20 minutes.
Separately, in a hot pan, toast the peppercorns , then crush them with a mortar . Serve the Roman-style tripe with grated Pecorino Romano , a few leaves of Roman mint, and the toasted pepper.
You can store the Roman-style tripe for 1-2 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container. Freezing is not recommended.
To make the tripe, use the honeycomb tripe, which is the most prized part and has a spongy appearance. Toasting the pepper in a pan helps to amplify the aromas of this spice and gives the dish a more intense flavor.
History, tradition, and family: these are the ingredients that have made Armando at the Pantheon one of the pillars of Roman cuisine. The name betrays an exceptional location in the heart of Rome, just steps away from one of the most significant symbols of the capital. The menu invariably offers typical Roman dishes, alongside more innovative and experimental recipes, borne from the passion handed down through two generations of restaurateurs, now led by Claudio and Fabrizio Gargioli. Food and hospitality are the key words that make Armando at the Pantheon one of the most appreciated trattorias in Rome.

