name:
Pasta with creamy pumpkin sauce
ingredients:
Bow tie pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Pumpkin: 1.33lbs(600 g)
Smoked pancetta: 2oz(60 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Vegetable broth: ⅔cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¼cup(50 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 3tbsp(40 g)
Shallot: 1oz(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare the pasta with creamy pumpkin sauce , first cut the pumpkin into large pieces , remove the seeds and inner strands , then cut into slices and remove the skin .
Cut the slices into strips and then into cubes measuring about ½ inch (1 cm) . Then cut the pancetta into small strips . Set the pumpkin and pancetta aside in two bowls .
Meanwhile, bring a pot of salted water to a boil. Chop the shallot and add to some oil heated in a frying pan. Stir and allow to cook gently , stirring occasionally to keep it from burning.
When the shallot has softened, add the pancetta and fry for a few minutes together with the rosemary sprigs. Leave the rosemary sprig whole and remove it once the oil has absorbed its flavor. Then add the pumpkin to the pan and mix everything together .
Season with salt and pepper , cover with vegetable broth (or hot water), and cook for 15-20 minutes . When the water in the pot is boiling, add the pasta to cook .
Remove a portion of the pumpkin, being careful not to take the pancetta as well , and transfer it to a food processor together with the ricotta .
Blend to obtain a creamy mixture , then transfer back to the pan with the sauce to give it the right creamy texture .
When the pasta is al dente, drain it and pour directly into the pan . Stir the pasta well to absorb the sauce . Now the pasta with creamy pumpkin sauce is ready to serve . Enjoy!
You can store pasta with creamy pumpkin sauce in an airtight container in the fridge for up to one day.
Not suitable for freezing.
If you wish, replace the rosemary with parsley and the pancetta with speck. You can add grated Parmesan or Pecorino cheese, too!

