name:
Nutella tiramisu
ingredients:
Egg yolks: 2 ½tbsp(65 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(500 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(130 g)
Water: ¾cup(40 g)
Nutella: 1.6cups(500 g)
Coffee: 1cup(250 g)- made in a moka pot
Ladyfingers: 11oz(310 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: to taste
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
Thought it was impossible to make tiramisu , the most classic of the classic desserts, even more delicious? Today we’ll show you that’s just not true... Spoons at the ready, let’s make some Nutella tiramisu ! No one will be able to resist it and, thanks to pasteurizing the eggs, you’ll be able to savor this wonderful dessert with complete peace of mind. It’s the perfect finishing touch to a family Sunday lunch, but if you prefer to serve it at the end of a gourmet dinner, just make as a single-serving version in nice glasses that will satisfy your sense of sight as well as taste! And for a bakery-worthy version? Replace the ladyfingers with a layer of vanilla or chocolate cookie dough! When you make this Nutella tiramisu , you can personalize it according to your tastes, and then, once it’s ready, dig into the mascarpone cream and let a little bite of paradise melt in your mouth.
Check out these other tasty variations:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the Nutella tiramisu , start with the coffee: Prepare 1 cup (250 g) in a moka pot and set aside for it to cool. Move on to the syrup to pasteurize the egg yolks: In a heavy-bottomed saucepan, add ? cup (65 g) of the sugar and 3 tbsp (40 g) of water . Heat up over moderate heat until it reaches a temperature of 250°F (121°C) .
When the syrup has reached around 239°F (115°C), pour the egg yolks and the rest of the sugar into a bowl . Using a hand mixer, start to whisk the eggs at low speed, and once the syrup has reached 250°F (121°F), pour it slowly into the eggs . Increase the mixer speed slowly and continue to whisk the mixture until it’s completely cool and well whipped .
Next, add the mascarpone one or two spoonfuls at a time, still whisking with the mixer until it’s all been added. Once you’ve got a smooth, fluffy cream without any lumps , turn off the mixer. The cream is ready to be used right away, although you can also leave it in the fridge for an hour or so. Pour the coffee into a dish to dip the ladyfingers into .
Once the coffee is no longer warm, take the cream out of the fridge and use it to create the first layer , using a 9x9 inch (24x24 cm) casserole dish. Dip the ladyfingers in the coffee quickly, wetting both sides , and arrange them in the casserole dish on top of the cream. Make sure the ladyfingers aren’t too wet, otherwise it will be difficult to spread the Nutella in the next step. You can also cut off any excess if needed to make them fit in the dish correctly.
Add half of the Nutella and, using a small spatula, spread over the entire surface. Next, cover with half of the mascarpone cream and spread evenly using a spatula or spoon. Then repeat these steps: Dip the ladyfingers quickly in the coffee, add a layer of Nutella ,
and then mascarpone cream . The final touch is just adding a little sifted unsweetened cocoa powder and some chopped hazelnuts on top. Your Nutella tiramisu is ready !
This Nutella tiramisu can be kept in the fridge for 3-4 days.
If you prefer, you can cut it into portions and freeze for around one month.
If the Nutella is too hard it will be difficult to spread; if this happens, warm it in the microwave for a few seconds or melt it using a bain-marie. To make this Nutella tiramisu even richer, you can add the chopped hazelnuts to the first layer of ladyfingers as well, or even desiccated coconut. To allow children to enjoy it too, replace the coffee with milk and cocoa powder.

