name:
Snowflakes
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Whole milk: 0.6cup(150 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 0.4cup(80 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)- (at room temperature)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 2tsp(10 g)
Water: 0.625cup(150 g)
Vanilla bean: ½
Fine salt: 0.7tsp(4 g)
Whole milk: 3tsp(15 g)
Eggs: 1- (medium)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: (150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.6cup(150 g)
Powdered sugar: 3tbsp(25 g)
Lemon peel: ½
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Cornstarch: 2tbsp(20 g)
Wildflower honey: 2tbsp(10 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 28 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 3 hours of rising

instructions:
Snowflakes are soft little brioche buns with a white filling that captivate at the first bite. The treat gets its name from its immaculate appearance and was created by the Poppella Bakery, which managed to turn a simple recipe into a true icon.
These charming little domes covered in powdered sugar hide a light and frothy ricotta cream with a vanilla flavor. The original recipe is jealously guarded by its creators, just like the one for the Polacca aversana , another Campania delicacy closely linked to a famous pastry shop, and we once again offer you our version that we're sure won't disappoint!
Take the time to accompany the dough during the rising, using the rest intervals to prepare the cream that will fill your snowflakes... your dedication will be rewarded by these sweet puffs, perfect to enjoy at any time of the day.
Discover other Neapolitan desserts to make at home:
To prepare the snowflakes, first take the butter out of the fridge to soften. Start with the dough: pour the all-purpose flour into a large bowl. Add the sugar , crumbled fresh yeast , and room temperature water .
Gradually pour in the milk while kneading , then add a pinch of salt .
Add the vanilla bean seeds to the softened butter . Now transfer the dough to the work surface, spread it out with your hands, and place the flavored butter in the center , then fold the dough over itself .
Knead by hand vigorously to incorporate the butter . You should obtain a smooth, slightly sticky dough . Let it rise in the bowl , covered with plastic wrap, for about 1 hour and 30 minutes, or until doubled in size.
Once the indicated time has passed, flip the risen dough onto the counter and break off small pieces about 1 oz each ; with these amounts, you will get about 28. Work each piece of dough as follows: bring the edges towards the center , then roll the ball on the work surface with the seam facing down to give it a spherical shape and seal it well. Do this for all to form the snowflakes and place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, spaced apart .
Once all the balls are formed , cover the baking sheet with plastic wrap, being careful not to pull it too tight so as not to crush the dough . Let it rise at room temperature for about one and a half hours. In the meantime, you can focus on the filling: pour the cornstarch into a saucepan .
Add the sugar , vanilla extract , and honey .
Pour in the milk, a little at a time , while stirring with the whisk . Place on the stove and cook over medium heat to thicken the mixture .
Transfer the cream to a low, wide dish , cover with plastic wrap , and let it cool completely in the refrigerator. In a large bowl, pour the cow's ricotta, well-drained of excess whey and sifted .
Add the powdered sugar and grate the lemon zest , then mix well with a spatula .
Now semi-whip the fresh liquid cream with electric whisks . Take the cream out of the fridge, soften it a bit with the whisk , then incorporate it into the ricotta .
Finally, fold in the semi-whipped cream in two stages with gentle movements from bottom to top . The cream is ready , transfer it to a piping bag without a nozzle and store it in the refrigerator. In a small bowl, break an egg and pour in the milk .
Mix and brush the risen bites with the mixture obtained . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 15-18 minutes maximum; they should be slightly golden on the surface. Once they are cooked, take them out of the oven and let them cool. Using a nozzle, create a hole at the base of each snowflake .
Fill the snowflakes with the cream and finish with a dusting of powdered sugar . Your snowflakes are ready to be enjoyed !
The unfrosted brioche can be stored at room temperature in a paper bag or covered with plastic wrap for 2-3 days, while the cream can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap in contact, for a maximum of 3 days.
You can freeze the brioche after baking, without filling them.
It's important never to pour more compact mixtures into the whipped or semi-whipped cream, but always add the latter to the mixture and mix from top to bottom.
If you have leftover cream, you can serve it as a spoon dessert accompanied by fresh seasonal fruit or use it in place of jam, spread on a slice of bread, for a hearty and genuine breakfast!

