name:
Fettuccine Alfredo
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(400 g)
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste- for sprinkling
Eggs: 4- medium
Butter: 1stick(80 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2oz(80 g)- grated
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes to let the dough rest

instructions:
Indulge in the rich, velvety goodness of Fettuccine Alfredo, a dish that has become a cornerstone of Italian-American cuisine. Featuring tender fettuccine pasta coated in a luxurious sauce made from butter, cream, and Parmesan cheese, this recipe is the ultimate comfort food. Perfect for weeknight dinners or elegant gatherings, Fettuccine Alfredo is a crowd-pleaser that’s as simple as it is satisfying.
Originally created in Rome by Alfredo di Lelio in the early 20th century, this iconic dish won international fame after being embraced by Hollywood stars in the 1920s. While the authentic Italian version skips the cream, the American adaptation has added it for extra indulgence, creating the creamy pasta we know and love today.
Fettuccine Alfredo are deeply Italian, just like Spaghetti all'Amatriciana or Spaghetti Cacio e Pepe : simple homemade egg pasta fettuccine tossed with ample butter and Parmigiano Reggiano PDO , embodying the simplicity and elegance of Italy's culinary traditions.
Try our easy-to-follow recipe to create restaurant-quality Alfredo at home, and discover why this creamy pasta is a favorite in kitchens everywhere!
If you're a fan of fettuccine, don't miss out on these other delicious ways to dress it up:
To prepare fettuccine Alfredo , start by making the fresh egg pasta: sieve the flour 00 in a bowl (perhaps start with a little less than the full amount of flour and add more if necessary) , and add the eggs . Knead by hand to obtain a homogeneous dough , then place it on a worktop and finish kneading; if the dough seems too soft, you can add a little more flour, if it appears too dry, moisten with a little water.
When the dough is firm and elastic, roll it into a ball and wrap it in plastic wrap . Leave to rest at room temperature for 30 minutes so that the gluten relaxes and the dough is easier to roll out. After half an hour, sprinkle a little flour 00 on the work top and divide the dough into 4 parts using a scraper : knead one part at a time and keep the remaining dough covered in plastic wrap so that it doesn't dry out. Lightly sprinkle some flour onto the part you are about to knead
and feed it into the pasta making machine, on the thickest setting ; add a pinch of flour to prevent the dough from tearing . Repeat the operation several times, working your way up to the penultimate setting . If you do not have a pasta making machine, you can roll out the dough with a rolling pin; wrap the dough around the pin and unroll it several times, until it is a few millimeters thick.
Now divide the sheets of dough into 2 or 3 parts according to length and feed them through the machine once more, on the penultimate number to prevent them from shrinking . Sprinkle the semolina over the pasta sheets and leave them to dry for a couple of minutes. In the meantime, bring some salted water to the boil in a saucepan, to cook the fettuccine.
Once the pasta is dry, take a sheet and wrap it around itself from the shorter side, taking care not to press, so that the overlapping layers do not stick together . When you succeed in making a regular shaped cylinder, cut into roughly 4 mm thick slices using a knife . Unroll the slices, holding them by one end ,
roll the resulting fettuccine around your hand to form a nest and leave them to rest on the work top; proceed in the same way with the rest of the pasta sheets. When the fettuccine are ready, cook them in the water which will have come to the boil by now . As the pasta cooks, it'll only take 2-3 minutes, prepare the sauce: melt the butter on a very low flame in a capacious pan, but be sure not to burn it .
Add a ladle of pasta cooking water: the starch it contains will help you create an even creamier condiment . Drain the fettuccine and place them in the pan with the butter , add another ladle of cooking water and briefly saute, stirring rapidly all the while.
Now remove from the heat and add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano ; last of all, season with a pinch of salt and a generous grating of black pepper; stir once more to thoroughly coat the pasta in the sauce. Your fettuccine Alfredo are ready to be served !
However, you can freeze uncooked fettuccine. To freeze, place the pasta nests far apart on a tray and leave them to harden in the freezer for a couple of hours. Once hardened, place them into freezer bags and store them in the freezer. Whenever you need to use them, simply cook them from frozen, by dropping them into boiling water, then follow the recipe as normal.
In the United States you'll have a tough time finding a restaurant that doesn't serve fettuccine Alfredo! However, usually they won't be prepared following the original recipe by the Alfredo restaurant in Rome, as cream is added to help make the typical sauce...have no fear, if you follow our recipe you won't need any! You'll also find a ready-made condiment in the USA, called Alfredo sauce, for adding to fettuccine, but it is far-removed from the original recipe of the Rome-based restaurant.
Alfredo di Lelio sold his restaurant in via della Scrofa in 1943 and opened another one in 1950 with his son, "Il vero Alfredo" (The Real Alfredo), in Piazza Augusto Imperatore 30, where fettuccine Alfredo were still made according to the original recipe, past down from father to son and served with the golden cutlery donated by Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks!

