name:
Sausage Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1.67cups(320 g)
Sausage: 0.9lb(400 g)- (or luganega)
Meat broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
White wine: 1.4oz(40 g)
Shallot: 1
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2spoonfuls
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 1.4oz(40 g)- cold
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- cold

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Sausage risotto is one of the easiest risottos to prepare at home, but also one of the tastiest. It fits any occasion, like a family lunch or a dinner with friends, for example! It's one of those first courses that everyone agrees on, thanks to its simple yet unique flavor... a rustic dish characterized by the bold taste of sausage. To make this recipe, you can use the variety of sausage you love the most, perhaps from your own region; more or less spiced, long or short, each variant will give you a different dish that will always win you over! Choose a quality wine to deglaze the risotto, as it will be the one to give the aroma... use white or red wine for a more or less delicate flavor. Here are some variations of sausage risotto not to miss:
Discover more delicious Risotto recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the sausage risotto, start with this. Remove the casing with your hands, possibly cutting it with a small knife , then cut it into 1-inch pieces . In a saucepan, heat 2 tbsps of oil, add the sausage and let it brown for 7 minutes over medium-high heat.
In the meantime, clean a shallot and cut it into thin slices ; if you prefer, you can also chop it. Add it to the pan and mix well .
Add the fresh thyme leaves and deglaze with the white wine , scraping the bottom well with a wooden spoon to deglaze it. Brown the sausage pieces for another 5 minutes .
At this point, transfer the sausage to a bowl, cover it and keep it warm . Pour the rice into the same pan, without adding oil . Let it toast for 3-4 minutes, stirring often .
Gradually add the hot broth, making sure to wait until it is absorbed before adding more . Stir continuously until the rice is cooked ; it will take about 18 minutes. After about 15 minutes, also add the sausage and shallot .
Mix well , then wet one last time with the broth and finish cooking the rice. At this point, taste and adjust the salt if necessary . Remove the pot from the heat and add the cold butter and grated Parmigiano Reggiano DOP .
Stir gently , then cover with a lid . Let it rest for a minute, then stir everything to create a creamy consistency and plate the sausage risotto adding more fresh thyme and pepper !
You can keep the sausage risotto in the refrigerator for a couple of days at most.
Instead of white wine, you can use red wine to deglaze the risotto: it will give a rich and robust flavor!

