name:
Oat apple crumble
ingredients:
Rolled oats: 1cup(125 g)
Whole grain flour: 1cup(125 g)
Butter: 1stick(100 g)- freddo
Muscovado sugar: 4tbsp(35 g)
Sugar: 3tbsp(35 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Golden delicious apples: 0.5lb(200 g)
Muscovado sugar: 2tbsp(20 g)
Cinnamon powder: to taste
Chopped hazelnuts: 2tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + the dough rest time in the refrigerator (30 mins)

instructions:
Rolled oats are the main ingredient of porridge, which is why they are often associated with breakfast: here we've used them to make delicious cookies and cute yogurt-filled baskets! Today we present you with a recipe that will be the perfect start to your day, a genuine snack, or a morish end to any meal: oat apple crumble ! Two layers of crumble made with wholegrain flour that conceal a soft apple and cinnamon filling, for a dessert with an irresistibly rustic appearance, even more so with the chopped hazelnut sprinkling. If you too are a lover of crumbles, you certainly won't be disappointed with our version with apples and oats!
To make oat apple crumble , start by preparing the crumble: place the wholegrain flour, rolled oats , granulated sugar and muscovado sugar in a capacious bowl,
along with the cold and diced butter and a pinch of salt. Stir briskly with your finger tips to obtain a crumbly mixture . Leave in the refrigerator to rest for around 30 minutes.
Now prepare the filling: peel the apples, cut them in half and remove the core , then cut them into wedges and lastly, thinly slice .
Place the apples in a bowl, add the muscovado sugar , the cinnamon and stir with a spoon .
Now take an 8" (20 cm) cake mold, line with parchment paper and add half of the crumble mixture : try to create an even layer by gently pressing it down with your fingers. Spread the filling over the base, leave a 0.4 inch (1 cm) space along the edge and then cover with the remaining crumble mixture .
Press the surface down with your finger tips and sprinkle with the chopped hazelnuts . Bake in a static oven preheated to 355°F (180°C) for around 35 minutes. Once baked, remove your oat apple crumble from the oven and leave it to cool thoroughly before enjoying it !
Oat apple crumble can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
If you want, you can replace the cinnamon, or add other powdered spices, like ginger or cloves! For this crumble recipe it is not possible to replace the butter with oil, but margarine can be used as an alternative.

