name:
Stewed cod
ingredients:
Desalted cod: 1lb(500 g)
Yellow onions: 0.5lb(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(100 g)
Tomato purée: 2cups(600 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Salted capers: 3tbsp(30 g)- (to be disalinated)
Taggiasca olives: 6tbsp(60 g)
Oregano: 1tbsp- dried
White wine: 3tbsp(40 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Baccala' , or cod , is a fundamental ingredient of Italian cuisine and features in a multitude of regional recipes. Easy to store and low cost, salt cod has always been extensively used as an ingredient, in succulent dishes up and down the Country. This highly versatile product is suitable for preparing in a number of ways, oven baked, fried, in batter, alla romana or with chickpeas or stewed , just like the recipe we present you with today. A second course perfect for serving at a family lunch, an informal or a fish-based dinner, from starters to first and second courses. Stewed cod is a recipe that will win everyone over with its simplicity! With a cooking sauce enriched with capers and taggiasche olives, no one will resist dipping their bread in it!
To prepare stewed cod , start by desalinating the capers: rinse them thoroughly under running water. Now check there are no bones in the fish. Run your fingers along the surface of the cut of fish and if you find any, remove them with pincers . Now cut the cod into 4 pieces, each around 1.2 inches in size, without removing the skin, as it will keep the fish intact during cooking . Lastly, peel and thinly slice the onion .
Heat a saucepan on the stove. Add the oil and then the onion; brown on a low flame, stirring occasionally, for around 4-5 minutes . Once softened, leave the onion to one side, without gathering up the oil too and quickly dredge the cod pieces with flour. Be sure to remove any excess flour .
Turn the flame up and add the cod pieces and cook for 1-2 minute per side: turn the pieces over when golden . Add the white wine, simmer
and reduce, then turn the flame down a little and add the tomato puree . Add the onions to the condiment , followed by the olives and desalinated capers ,
flavor with the oregano and lastly, add a pinch of salt and pepper . Stir delicately ,
put the lid on and cook for around 40 minutes on a low flame . Your stewed cod is now ready, all you need to do is add some fresh parsley to taste and enjoy it with a few slices of bread .
Stewed cod can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days at most. You can freeze it if you have used fresh ingredients that have not been previously frozen.
Make the sauce with a more liquid consistency; serve the cod with toasted bread for a match made in heaven! Or, if you want to add a spicy note to the dish, add 1 finely chopped chili pepper to the sauce.

