name:
Mini omelettes in pancetta bacon
ingredients:
Eggs: 6
Pancetta: 24slices
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3tbsp- for grating
Whipping cream: ⅔cup(150 g)
Basil: 1sprig
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
A morish appetizer: mini omelettes in pancetta bacon , a thin layer of crispy bacon filled with soft miniature omelettes baked in the oven in muffin molds! An original way of using these molds for something other than the famous muffins! The omelettes are very quick to make and they are gorgeously shaped! Discover how to make a vegetarian version of this egg-based finger food, perfect for a happy hour or brunch!
To prepare mini omelettes in pancetta bacon , start by setting the oven to 355°F (180°C). In a bowl, beat the eggs with a fork, together with the milk , the cheese , the salt and pepper
and last of all, add the hand-torn basil , to season the mixture. Take a muffin tray and line each mold by crossing two slices of pancetta bacon to cover the entire surface . There is no need to grease the molds: thanks to its fat content, the bacon will prevent the mixture from sticking to the tray, while also creating a deliciously crisp crust for the actual basket. Fill each of the molds to just below the edge with the mixture (with these doses you should be able to fill 12 molds). Bake in the oven for 12 - 15 minutes, until the surface of the small omelettes is nice and golden. Once baked, remove the mini omelettes from the oven and serve them hot. You could always add some finely diced vegetables to the omelettes (zucchini, egg plants, mushrooms, artichokes).
You can store mini omelettes in pancetta bacon in a sealed container in the refrigerator, for no more than a couple of days.
These mini omelettes can also be turned into a second course, even for your vegetarian friends! Simply replace the pancetta bacon with some grilled zucchini, and you'll make everyone happy!

