name:
Tarte tatin
ingredients:
Chantecler apples: 4- (or 6 rennet apples)
Sugar: to taste
Salt: to taste
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(250 g)
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- at room temperature
Egg yolks: 1
Water: ¼cup(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Butter: 4 ¼tbsp(60 g)- at room temperature
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + time to rest the dough and to rest the tart after removing it from the oven

instructions:
Tarte tatin is a classic apple dessert in the French tradition originally from the beginning of the century thanks to the inventiveness of sisters Carolina and Stephanie Tatin, hoteliers in Loret-Cher, France. It seems that this delicious tart arose from an error, like another famous French recipe: the ganache cream. Apparently, Stephanie, an expert cook, had to remedy her serious oversight: the room was full of patrons but she hadn't prepared her legendary apple pie that day. Without panicking, she ran into the kitchen, buttered and sprinkled sugar on a baking pan, put apples in it and baked it. But in her haste, she soon realized that she had forgotten the bottom brisée dough: so she covered the pan with just one layer of dough and put it all back in the oven. The story has a happy ending: after baking, Stephanie turned the tart over on a plate and took it to the dining room where it was literally devoured by those present. That is how tarte tatin was born. Today this magic is replicated in the kitchen of Giallozafferano thanks to the French chef of Italian origin Denny Imbroisi . Discover all the precious tips to prepare a perfect tarte tatin and you will feel transported in a very sweet French atmosphere!
Check out these recipes too:
To prepare the tarte tatin first you have to make the brisée dough . Pour the flour and butter in chunks into a bowl at room temperature. Work quickly by creaming the butter and flour with your hands , until everything is mixed, but without heating it too much: you will have a grainy consistency . In another bowl pour the egg yolk, the water ,
one or two pinches of salt and mix everything with a spoon until the salt dissolves . Then pour the liquid ingredients into the midle of the bowl with the butter and flour ,
and mix quickly with your hands to compact the ingredients, until the bowl is clean . Put the dough onto a work surface and squeeze it down 3 times with the back of your hand, stretching the dough forward on the work surface .
Push it back together and repeat by squeezing it with the your hand 3 more times . Form a ball and cover it with plastic wrap , then set it to rest in the fridge for at least 30 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the apples.
Using a potato peeler, peel them and with a small knife divide them into quarters and remove the core , setting them aside on a cutting board with the round side up. Now prepare the caramel.
Take a saucepan with a thick bottom, pour the sugar and just a drop of water ; swirl it over the heat and let the sugar caramelize just by swirling the saucepan and without stirring the sugar.

Wait about 3-5 minutes until it has completely melted and until you have obtained a hazelnut color . It is very important that the caramel is not white and has a nice color because it will add color to the tart. In the meantime, butter an 8 1/2" (22 cm) round pan. Once you have the hazelnut coloring, add the butter cut in small pieces into the saucepan and swirl the pan again to let it melt for a few moments .
Once the butter has completely melted remove the caramel from the heat, wait a few moments so that it is not extremely hot and pour it into the freshly buttered pan . Take the apples and place them inside the pan: the round side should be down .
The pieces of apple must be very close to each other ; if they are too big you can cut them into smaller ones in order not to leave any gaps .
The apples should then be delicately pressed down as much as possible to cover the entire surface . For a better caramelization during cooking, sprinkle everything with a little additional sugar and a pinch or two fo salt which will both enhance the flavor.
Now take the bris é e dough and place it on a well-floured work surface and roll it out with a rolling pin until it is a scant 1/10" (2 mm) thick; it is important to roll out the dough by always working from the center and not the edges . Each time after you roll it with the pin, you have to turn the dough slightly clockwise and roll it again. When it is already a little bigger, you can turn it gently to flour the other side as well and continue rolling and turning it slightly until it reaches the indicated thickness. This technique for rolling out the brisée is called 10 and 10. Now roll it around the rolling pin and unroll it over the apples .
To avoid cutting away all the excess dough, fold the outside part slightly inwards so as to keep as much as possible, curling and pushing dough inwards with your thumbs : this will also make it thicker and give it a more solid base. Then remove the extra dough using the rolling pin and pass the tip of your thumb between the inner edge of the pan and the bris é e : this will help you to take out the tarte tatin more easily after baking. At this point, bake in a static oven preheated to 350° (180° C) for about 40-45 minutes.
The tarte tatin must have a uniform golden color. Once baked, take it out of the oven and let it cool for about 30 minutes before taking it out of the pan. Resting will help the caramel to thicken. Turn it upside down on a plate and serve your tarte tatin !
We recommend eating the tarte tatin freshly baked ; alternatively , you can keep it for one day , but it will be less tasty. Freezing is not recommended.
Tarte tatin is prepared with rennet apples, but comes out well with chantecler apples, like the ones we used. Adjust the amounts according to the size of the apples.
Shortcrust pastry can be used instead of brisée dough; puff pastry is not recommended as it would be too thin to support the weight of the apples.
We do not recommend keeping apples in lemon and water because they may absorb water which will be released during cooking.

