name:
Beef stew
ingredients:
Pork: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- (priest's hat cut)
Meat broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Onions: 1
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Red wine: 1glass
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Thyme: 1sprig
Sage: 3leaves
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4spoonfuls
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time of the stew (10 min.)

instructions:
Beef stew is a rich and comforting main course from homemade cuisine... the secret to its deliciousness lies in slow cooking over a gentle heat, allowing the meat to absorb all the flavors and aromas of the sautéed vegetables, aromatic herbs, red wine, and broth, becoming deliciously tender. The result is a hearty, genuine dish characterized by a thick, creamy sauce that envelops the beef chunks, perfect for scooping up with bread! If you love traditional recipes with genuine taste, beef stew is always a winning choice for a family dinner or with friends... but don't forget to bring some good rustic bread to the table!
Don't miss these stew recipes as well:


To prepare the beef stew, first make the meat broth following our recipe and keep it warm. Prepare the rest of the ingredients: clean and dice the celery, carrot, and onion . Tie together the sage, rosemary, and thyme with string . Finally, cut the meat into cubes about 2 inches (5 cm) .
In a double-bottomed steel pot, pour in the oil and butter . Once the butter is melted, add the vegetables and the bunch of aromatic herbs . Let them gently stew for 10 minutes.
After 10 minutes, increase the heat and add the beef chunks , stirring occasionally to sear the meat well . Season with salt, add the flour , and stir to combine.
Deglaze with the red wine and let all the alcohol evaporate. At this point, add the meat broth and cover with a lid, leaving a small vent . Let simmer over medium-low heat for about 2 hours.
After this time, remove the lid and cook for another 20-30 minutes to let it thicken a bit. Taste and adjust the salt if needed. Remove the bunch of aromatic herbs , turn off the heat, and let the stew rest for 10 minutes before serving, so the sauce will be creamier. Your beef stew is ready to be enjoyed !
Beef stew can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container. When ready to serve, reheat it gently, adding a bit more broth if necessary.
If you used only fresh ingredients, you can also freeze it for up to 3 months: in this case, let it cool completely and transfer it to a freezer-safe container.
The ideal cuts of meat are the chuck roast, shoulder, and neck, as they are rich in fat marbling that melts during cooking, making the meat very tender.
If you prefer, you can replace the red wine with a good fruity or spiced beer.
Want to shorten the preparation time? Easy, with our pressure cooker stew recipe!
Beef stew is a typical preparation of many countries: try the Hungarian goulash or boeuf bourguignon, a delicious French specialty.

