name:
Clementine sponge cake
ingredients:
Clementines: 16oz(450 g)
Type 00 flour: 3cups(300 g)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Natural plain yogurt: ½cup(100 g)- (whole unsweetened)
Sunflower seed oil: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 2(125 g)- (medium)
Baking powder: 1tbsp(16 g)
Butter: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
All you need is a mixer, a few ingredients, and hey presto! Your dessert is ready! We're talking about orange sponge cake , lemon sponge cake and peach sponge cake, we're sure you'll have enjoyed some at breakfast or as a snack. This cake is also very quick to make and the result is a soft dessert that unleashes the perfume of this typical winter fruit as soon as you cut the first slice! Sprinkle with some icing sugar if you like...enjoy your clementine sponge cake !
To prepare clementine sponge cake , wash and dry the clementines. Then take 10 oz from the total amount and coarsely chop it up, without removing the peel (1-2). Peel the remaining clementines ,
divide each one in half . Now place the peeled clementines and unpeeled coarsely chopped ones in the mixer, along with the yogurt , eggs ,
sugar , seed oil , flour and
baking powder . Now put the lid on and thoroughly blend all the ingredients together .
Butter and flour a baking pan (13-14). Pour the mixture into the pan
and place in a conventional oven preheated to 355°F (180°C) and bake for around 75 minutes (after the first 30 minutes, if you notice the surface darkening too quickly, cover it with some parchment paper and continue baking). Once baked, remove from the oven and leave the clementine sponge cake to cool before removing from the pan . Serve it alone or with a nice sprinkle of powdered sugar!
Store your clementine sponge cake under a cake cloche for 2-3 days. You can freeze it in portions so that you can defrost and heat up a slice whenever you want.
You can add fresh grated ginger to the batter (before mixing all the ingredients together) or chocolate drops, which you can add after mixing all the other ingredients together.

