name:
Nut brittle
ingredients:
Peeled almonds: ¾cup(80 g)
Whole peeled hazelnuts: 7tbsp(70 g)
Pistachios: 5tbsp(50 g)- shelled
Pine nuts: 3tbsp(30 g)
Walnut kernels: ⅔cup(70 g)
Sesame seeds: 2tbsp
Sugar: 1cup(350 g)
Water: 3tbsp
Lemon juice: 1tsp
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time

instructions:
Nut crunch is a typical dessert in many Italian regions and varies according to the nuts used to make it: almonds, hazelnuts, or a mix, just like in this recipe. Everyone has tried it at some point in life, as it is more than just a Christmas dessert! It is frequently served at fairs and local markets, especially in winter. Its glossy appearance and sheer deliciousness make it extremely attractive: delicious toasted nuts bound together by caramelized sugar. Discover how to make nut crunch at home. These elegant bars are also perfect as a gift, together with Christmas cookies and gingerbread cookies : a sweet token just waiting to be enjoyed.
To prepare nut crunch , start by chopping the nuts: place the pine nuts, pistachios, almonds and hazelnuts on an oven tray, spread them over the entire surface and bake in a conventional oven preheated to 355°F (180 °C) for 5 minutes. Once toasted, place the nuts on a cutting board, add the walnut kernels too
and coarsely chop with a knife . Place the chopped nuts in a bowl, add the sesame seeds , and stir. Now make the caramel: place the water and sugar in a saucepan ,
add the lemon juice , stir with a spoon and dissolve the mixture on a medium flame: it will take around 20 minutes. Take a square 8" (20 cm) bottomless mold and place it on an oven tray lined with parchment paper .
Grease the inner edge of the mold with oil . In the meantime the syrup will have turned into the right consistency: it should be amber in color and bubbles will start to surface . Now add the nuts
and stir to amalgamate ; leave to cook for another 2/3 minutes. Pour the mixture into the mold , spread it evenly using a wood spoon
Leave it to cool at room temperature for around 10 minutes (it will still be soft and malleable). Once the resting time is up, before removing the mold, run the blade of a knife along the entire edge so that it will be easier to remove the mixture from the mold (17-18).
Tip the nut crunch over onto a cutting board, remove the parchment paper , cut it into 8 pieces of equal size and leave to rest until the bars take on a compact and hardened consistency. Place the nut crunch on a serving dish; it is now ready to be enjoyed !
We recommend to store the nut crunch wrapped in tin foil and in a bowl covered with a lead (once cold). Store the container in a fresh and dry place, as the caramelized sugar tends to melt in the heat.
You can also add pumpkin or sunflower seeds to your nut crunch. Peanuts will give it a more savory flavor.

