name:
Speck, radicchio, and caciocavallo risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ¾cup(320 g)
Radicchio: 10.5oz(300 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Speck: 7oz(200 g)- (just 1 slice)
Butter: ¼cup(60 g)
Garlic: 1clove
White wine: ⅓cup(70 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Thyme: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Speck, radicchio, and caciocavallo risotto is a rich and fragrant first course dish that includes a pleasant pairing of flavors that are a firm favorite in the kitchen, namely the combination of speck and radicchio. This is a great risotto that’s perfect for a variety of occasions: The golden, crispy speck goes so well with the caciocavallo, a sweet, delicately flavored cheese that becomes even more pungent and flavorful as it matures, along with the pan-fried radicchio cut into thin strips. The result? A rustic dish with a strong yet balance flavor that’s absolutely worth trying on a cold winter’s day!
Before preparing the speck , radicchio, and caciocavallo risotto , place a pot full of lightly salted water over heat for the vegetable broth. Cut the speck first into slices and then very thin strips , and then the caciocavallo into strips and small cubes .
Cut the radicchio in half and, using a knife, remove the toughest part , then cut it into fairly thin strips .
Melt the butter in a pot, then brown the speck strips over low heat for around 5 minutes ; once the speck has turned golden and crispy, turn off the heat, remove the speck using a skimmer and put it in a separate bowl . Place a large nonstick pan over heat and add a splash of oil
and the garlic clove ; let it brown and then remove from the heat. Cook the radicchio slices for 3 minutes over high heat , stirring every once in a while, and then turn off the heat and set aside .
Toast the rice in a pan with a drizzle of oil , stirring every once in a while, then add the white wine and allow to evaporate. Cook the rice for 18 minutes, adding a ladleful of vegetable broth every now and then.
Once the rice is al dente, add the radicchio and speck . After a few minutes, remove the pan from the heat and add the caciocavallo cubes ; stir to get them to melt in.
Season with thyme leaves and salt and pepper to taste . Your speck, radicchio, and caciocavallo risotto is ready to be served piping hot .
We recommend eating the speck, radicchio, and caciocavallo risotto while it’s still piping hot. You can store it for up to 1 day in the fridge in an airtight container, and then reheat it using hot broth. Not suitable for freezing.
Try replacing the caciocavallo cheese with provola or another type of hard cheese. In addition, to make your risotto even tastier, you can add some dried fruit of your choice!

