name:
Orange sponge cake
ingredients:
Oranges: 14oz(400 g)- (untreated)
Dark chocolate chips: ⅓cup(60 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(300 g)
Sugar: 1cup(300 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(100 g)
Sunflower seed oil: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Baking powder: 1tbsp(16 g)
Orange marmelade: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the rest time of the dough in the refrigerator

instructions:
Do you love desserts with intense aromas, citrus ones in particular? Usually lemon or orange zest is used to flavor cake mixes, like in the classic orange cake. Today, for the orange sponge cake, you'll use a whole orange, including pulp and zest. This sponge cake is so quick to make because all the ingredients are blended together in a mixer. It will take only few minutes to make a creamy and highly aromatic dough that will unleash an irresistible perfume when baked in the oven. Ideal for breakfast or as a delicious snack, the orange sponge cake will surprise you with its soft texture and enveloping flavor. For a different version of this recipe why not try clementine sponge cake and lemon sponge cake, just as aromatic and quick to make, while the peach sponge cake will be an excellent alternative for the summer months!
To prepare orange sponge cake , slice the oranges and cut them into pieces ; now place the ingredients in the mixer (you can use an immersion blender or blend the orange and milk and whisk the rest of the mixture): the sieved flour, the sugar , the milk
continue with the seed oil , orange pieces and eggs .
Add the baking powder last . Switch the mixer on and blend everything to obtain a creamy mixture, and pour it in a bowl . Lastly, add the chocolate drops . Stir them in with a spatula: your dough is ready!
Place it in a buttered mold lined with parchment paper (10-11), then bake the orange sponge cake in a static oven preheated to 355 °F ( 180 °C) for 80 minutes. Once baked remove from the oven and leave to cool . Remove from the mold and leave to cool.
Sieve the orange marmalade and brush it over the surface of the cake . Serve the sweet smelling orange sponge cake for breakfast or as a rich snack !
Store your orange sponge cake under a cake cloche for 2-3 days. You can freeze the orange chiffon cake, perhaps already cut into portions so that you can defrost just the right amount.
If you prefer, once baked you can sprinkle orange sponge cake with icing sugar instead of brushing the marmalade over it!

