name:
Potato nests with lentils and cotechino
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2lbs(1 kg)
Butter: 1stick(60 g)- melted
Egg yolks: 3
Fine salt: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: ½cup(60 g)- (for grating)
Dried lentils: 2cups(300 g)
Shallot: 1- medium
Carrots: 1- medium
Celery: 1stalk
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Bay leaves: 3leaves
Vegetable broth: 2cups(500 g)
Cotechino: 0.66lb(300 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 1 h 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour for the cotechino

instructions:
Potato nests with lentils and cotechino are a delicious and alternative way of serving the classic New Year's Eve dish. They are a feast for the palate and for the eye, served as a second course or appetizing starter that will impress friends as you see the new year in together!
Potato nests are prepared with the same mixture as the recipe for duchess potatoes, filled with lentils and finely diced cotechino.
To prepare potato nests with lentils and cotechino , start with the pulses. Place the lentils in a large bowl and cover with abundant water . Leave to soak for two hours, change the water a couple of times so that they soften thoroughly, you can cover them with plastic wrap . Once the two hours are up, drain the pulses .
Finely chop the onion, the celery stick, carrot and shallot to obtain a mixture you'll pan fry in a generous drizzle of oil . Stir carefully .
Now add the drained lentils , together with the bay leaves and rosemary. Add the vegetable stock a little at a time until the lentils are covered . Cook for around 40 minutes . Once cooked, leave them to one side.
Now cook the cotechino. Place the meat in a large saucepan and cover with water, then add a sliced celery stick and carrot . While cooking, pierce the cotechino with a skewer to release the fat . Put the lid on the saucepan and leave to cook on a medium flame for around two hours . When the cotechino is ready, drain and leave it to one side.
While the lentils and cotechino are cooking, you can prepare the nests. Boil the potatoes in some previously salted water . Once cooked, peel them using a knife , place them inside a potato masher and mash them all .
Add two eggs to the puree and stir coarsely. Add the slightly cooled melted butter ,
then the cheese and the grated nutmeg . Add salt and pepper to taste and thoroughly mix the ingredients together with a spatula, to obtain a smooth and lump-free mixture .
Now fill a star-tipped pastry bag with the potato puree and leave to one side for a moment; butter and line an oven tray with parchment paper and trace 4 circles far apart on the paper, each 4 inches (10 cm) in diameter, using a shaping ring mold (or a glass, the important thing is that they are of equal diameter) . Use the pastry bag to create the nests, tracing the bottom and then going over the sides twice to create a nest shape . Bake the nests for 20-25 minutes in a conventional oven preheated to 390 °F (200°C) (if with convection oven, bake for 10-15 minutes at 355°F (180°C)), until the surface becomes nice and golden.
When the nests are done, they will be ready to be filled while still hot. Place the drained cotechino on a cutting board and cut into slices that are around 0.4 inches (1 cm) thick , remove the skin using a knife , and finely dice .
Fill each nest with the lentils (you can gently heat them) and then with the diced cotechino . Your potato nests with lentils and cotechino are ready and should be served nice and hot.
You can store potato nests with lentils and cotechino in the refrigerator, in a sealed container for 2-3 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer a "crunchy" effect, you can pan-fry them!

