name:
Stuffed meatloaf
ingredients:
Pork: 2lbs(1 kg)- minced
Bacon: 8oz(240 g)- in slices
Eggs: 1
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1oz(50 g)- for grating
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Edam cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Cooked ham: 5oz(150 g)- in slices
Spinach: 2oz(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Sometimes a little goes a long way in transforming a simple dish, like meatloaf ! This is how all versions of this delicious dish are created, including with chicken , eggplants, filled with scamorza cheese or spinach. In the kitchen each chef has their own secret to creating something unique, but the one we present you with today is not so much a secret as an invaluable hack that will amaze everyone! Meatloaf wrapped in pancetta bacon will be a truly appetizing second course, filled with ham, cheese and lots of spinach: everyone will love it! Bring it to the table still whole and only slice before serving, still piping hot: thanks to the melted cheese and crispy bacon, your guests will enjoy a truly mouth-watering experience and will look forward to their first bite!?
Check out also these recipes:
To prepare stuffed meatloaf , start by making the mixture. Place the minced meat in a bowl, add the egg and the Parmigiano , the salt and pepper. Mix by hand to obtain a uniform mixture.
Now take some parchment paper and arrange the bacon slices into 2 rows on it, slightly overlapping (4-5). Remove the mixture from the bowl and spread it over the bacon layer
and press down until around 0.5" (1.5 cm) thick. Leave free the edge of the shorter sides . Now tidily arrange the ham and Edam cheese slices
and spread the spinach over it too . Use the parchment paper to roll the meat up and make sure the pancetta bacon does not peel away from the parchment paper .
Now that you have shaped it into a large sausage , finish preparing the stuffed polpettone by rolling it up using the parchment paper, making sure that it is fully wrapped in the slices of bacon (14-15).
Place the stuffed polpettone on a baking tray with parchment paper ; bake in a static oven preheated to 392 °F (200 °C) for around 40 minutes on the middle shelf. Remove from the oven , leave to cool slightly and serve your stuffed polpettone in slices !
Once cooked, stuffed polpettone can be stored in the refrigerator for around 3 days. Alternatively it can be frozen, once cooked.
Instead of ham, you could opt for mortadella slices!
If you don't have any Edam cheese, you could use a different cheese or mozzarella!

