name:
Potato tart
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1lb(550 g)
Cooked ham: 3oz(100 g)
Edam cheese: 3oz(100 g)- in slices
Gorgonzola cheese: 2oz(60 g)- sweet
Whipping cream: 3tbsp(50 g)
Eggs: 1
Thyme: 1sprig
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Today we'd like to present you with an original and delicious idea, perfect for serving as an appetizer with drinks; just like us, you'll fall in love with the fragrant and lightly crispy base of our potato tart ! A savory tart that doesn't require you to make any dough, something anyone can make...no shortcrust or puff pastry in sight, just a simple potato julienne flavored with thyme. The potatoes will bind together to form an impeccably compact base, for effortlessly clean-cut slices once cooked, with a consistency very similar to that of a rosti. Do you know what the best thing is? You can fill it with whatever you love most...cheeses, cold cuts, or vegetables can all be used to make the perfect filling for this potato tart . Fasten your apron and let your imagination run wild!
If you like the potato tart, make sure to try our potato crumble too!
To prepare the potato tart start by washing and peeling the potatoes . Grate them using a grater with large holes and place them inside a colander over a bowl .
Gently wring them out by lightly pressing with a spatula, to eliminate excess water . To dry the potatoes even more, spread them on clean cloth using a fork . Cover with another cloth and dab them until completely dry . In the meantime preheat a static oven to 360°F (182°C).
Place the potatoes in a bowl and season with salt and pepper .
Now add the fresh cream , the thyme leaves and the egg .
Stir all the ingredients together thoroughly . Butter an 8" (22 cm) mold with an extractable bottom and coat in breadcrumbs . Pour the mixture into the mold
and spread it over the entire surface with a fork, delicately pressing down on the sides (16-17). Bake in a static oven preheated to 355 °F (180 °C). for around 35 minutes, until the sides are nicely golden .
Remove your base from the oven and fill with the sliced cheese , prosciutto cotto and gorgonzola cheese. For the latter, simply spread it over the tart using a spoon .
Now place the tart back in the oven, once more at 355°F (180°C), for another 10 minutes. Remove from the oven as soon as the cheese melts, remove from the mold and enjoy your potato tart .
The potato tart can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.
All potato varieties can be used to make this tart, but we recommend trying it with sweet potatoes, for an original flavor!
Instead of gorgonzola you can use crescenza, stracchino or scamorza cheese. For more versions you could try mixed cold cuts, like pancetta bacon for example! For a vegetarian version of potato tart, you can replace the cooked ham with spinach.

