name:
Panettone with brewer's yeast
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 5tbsp(50 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(3 g)
Malt: 1tsp- or honey or sugar
Whole milk: 2tbsp(30 g)- room temperature
Manitoba flour: 3tbsp(25 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(110 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(4 g)
Eggs: 2(85 g)
Sugar: 3tbsp(40 g)
Butter: 1stick(45 g)- soft
Type 00 flour: cup(75 g)
Eggs: 1(53 g)
Egg yolks: 2(30 g)
Sugar: 4tbsp(50 g)
Butter: 1stick(45 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Vanilla bean: 1
Candied orange: 2tbsp(20 g)
Candied citron: 2tbsp(20 g)
Raisins: 7tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(3 g)
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note EDITOR'S NOTE: it takes at least 48 hours to prepare the panettone, considering leavening and maturation times in the fridge.

instructions:
This year the panettone is homemade ! Our recipe for panettone with brewer's yeast is bound to be a success. Your home will turn into the perfect workshop, brimming with aromas, candied fruits, raisins and flours! Without belittling the goodness and mastery of the Christmas dessert made by the finest pastry chefs par excellence, if you would like to try your hand at something truly special, we'll guide you step by step on how to make homemade panettone with brewer's yeast . In addition to the finest ingredients and the right temperature, you'll definitely need a generous pinch of patience too! Indeed for the best results, you'll need at least two days to make the biga (starter dough); the first and second dough will both require the right amount of time for leavening and resting. If such times are incompatible with your needs, you can always choose from other versions we have prepared for you. Now there are no more excuses: there will be enough homemade panettone for everyone this year!
Discover more delicious Panettone recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare panettone, start by making the starter dough. Place the flour, crumbled brewer's yeast , malt and the milk at room temperature in a bowl.
Stir with a spatula , then place on a work top and knead by hand. You should obtain a compact piece of dough . Place it back in the bowl, cover with plastic wrap and leave to rest for an hour at room temperature, before placing it in the refrigerator for 12 hours.
Once the 12 hours are up, take the rested starter dough , don't worry if it hasn't grown too much. Place it in the bowl of a planetary mixer , add the flour 00
and the manitoba wheat . Now add the fresh and crumbled brewer's yeast and sugar .
Assemble the hook and switch on the planetary mixer, at a low speed. Now gradually add the previously beaten egg and mix for a few minutes until the dough becomes firm and does not break when stretched . Now you can add the butter. The butter must be at room temperature and you should add one piece at a time . Make sure the butter is fully incorporated into the dough before adding another piece. Using two spoons will make adding the butter to the planetary mixer bowl easier.
Continue to knead until the dough becomes stringy once more . Stop the machine and place the dough onto a worktop, using a spatula . Slap and fold the dough a few times. Lift it, slap it onto the worktop so that it lengthens, and then fold .
Repeat a few times , until you notice that the dough becomes smoother and more taut. Round the dough and place it in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap and leave to rest for an hour at 79-83°F (26-28°C) then leave in the refrigerator for 12 hours. If the temperature at home is not this high, heat some water in a saucepan and place it at the bottom of your oven, then place your panettone dough inside the oven too. In this way you will create a highly effective homemade leavening chamber.
Remove the 1st dough from the refrigerator, leave it at a temperature of 79-83°F (26-28°C) for 2 hours . In the meantime, rinse the raisins thoroughly and leave them to soak ; once rehydrated wring them thoroughly and leave them to one side.
Place the leavened dough in the planetary mixer bowl , now add the flour and the sugar .
Add the previously beaten eggs , the egg yolks , the seeds of one vanilla bean
and the grated lemon peel . Assemble the hook and switch on the planetary mixer at a low speed. Add the salt too , as it mixes. Leave the appliance on for a few minutes, until the dough thoroughly wraps around the hook .
Now add the soft butter, just like you did with the first dough; remember, it is important to add a piece at a time and to wait until fully absorbed before adding more. Use two spoons, it will be easier to add the butter. Leave the appliance to work on a low speed and in the meantime you can prepare the candied fruits. Place the candied orange on a cutting board and dice it, then do the same with the citron . As soon as the dough becomes firm and does not break when stretched ,
place the candied fruits in the planetary mixer , along with the raisins . Now switch the appliance back on, once more on a low speed, to incorporate the candied fruits and raisins .
Dampen your hands and remove the dough from the hook, use a spatula to place the dough on the worktop . Now slap and fold the dough, just like you did with the first dough: lift it and fold it so that it becomes firmer. If it appears sticky and sinewy, leave it to rest for a couple of minutes.
Now round it using a spatula, to form a spherical shape ; place it in a bowl . Cover with plastic wrap and leave to leaven for another two and a half hours at 79-83°F (26-28°C).
Take the leavened dough . Place it on a top, fold using a spatula, once more lifting and slapping it against the worktop.
Round the dough to form a spherical shape. Place it in a tall 1.7 lb panettone mold and leave to leaven for another 3 hours at 79-83°F (26-28°C). Once it grows to 0.8 inches (2 cm) from the edge of the mold , leave it for half an hour in the fresh air, so that a thin crust forms on the surface.
Use a sharpened knife to cut a cross in the middle of the panettone . Place a piece of butter in the middle of the cross and bake in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F ( 175 °C) for 50 minutes. Place the panettone on the lowest rack and after five minutes place another baking tray on the rack. This will prevent the panettone from burning. Now remove from the oven
and stick two long steel skewers in the bottom part . Turn the panettone upside down and balance it on two cans or saucepans of equal height . Leave it to cool for 6 hours, then turn it over. You are ready to serve your panettone !
Homemade panettone does not keep for as long as industrially made ones. You can store it for no more than 2-3 days in a food grade bag. It can also be frozen after the leavening step, after which you can defrost it in the refrigerator at least 2 hours before cutting it, placing the butter in the middle of the cross and baking in the oven.
We recommend you prepare the starter dough early in the morning, at 7 or 8 am. This way you will have the rest of the day for making the first dough and the next day you'll be able to finish and bake your panettone with brewer's yeast !
The origins of panettone are contested: legend has it that this delicious bread was created out of love. Apparently Messer Ughetto degli Atellani invented it by chance: he started working at a bakery to win over the baker's daughter. In order to turn the fate of the shop around, he tried making the sweet bread, which became very popular indeed.
According to another legend, during a Christmas dinner at the court of Ludovico the Moor , the cook burnt the dessert. A scullery boy called Toni took pity on the cook's desperate plight and offered to serve the sweet bread he himself had prepared that morning. The dessert was brought to the table and all the diners were impressed, heralding "Pan de Toni" !

