name:
Pandoro tree
ingredients:
Pandoro pastry: 1.7lbs(750 g)
Currants: 1oz(30 g)
Blueberries: ¼cup(30 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Whole milk: 1cup(250 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.6cup(150 g)- cold
Egg yolks: 3
Sugar: 6tbsp(75 g)
Powdered sugar: 2.7tbsp(20 g)
Cornstarch: 3tbsp(25 g)
Vanilla extract: 1tsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + the cooling time of the cream in the fridge (about 2 hours)

instructions:
How many delicious ways are there to enjoy pandoro at Christmas and throughout the festive season... today we present to you a very easy but impressive one: stuffed pandoro! Simply slice this typical Christmas cake and stack the slices in a staggered manner, alternating the layers with a delicious diplomatic cream , which is a combination of custard and whipped cream. To make the final effect even more scenic, we decorated the outside of the pandoro with dollops of cream, currants, and blueberries, dusting everything with a cascade of powdered sugar. In this way, you'll achieve a simple Christmas cake with minimal effort, to be served sliced to sweetly conclude your holiday menu!
If you liked the idea of stuffed pandoro, discover how many more pandoro recipes can be made:

To prepare the stuffed pandoro, start with the custard: pour the milk into a small saucepan, add the vanilla extract , and heat until just about to boil. Meanwhile, place the egg yolks in a larger saucepan with the sugar and cornstarch .
Mix well with a whisk until you get a smooth and lump-free mixture . Add the hot milk to the egg yolk mixture in 2 parts , stirring to incorporate, then return the saucepan to the heat and let it thicken over low heat, stirring continuously .
Transfer the obtained cream into a cold bowl from the freezer and whisk for a minute before covering it with cling film in contact . Place in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours.
After this time, pour the cold cream into a bowl , add the powdered sugar and whip with electric whisks .
Take the custard from the refrigerator and stir to soften it, then gradually fold in the whipped cream , gently stirring from the bottom up with a spatula to avoid deflating it . Transfer the diplomatic cream to a piping bag with a star nozzle. At this point, cut the pandoro into horizontal slices about 3/4 inches thick: you should get about 7 slices .
Place the base of the pandoro on the serving plate and pipe a little diplomatic cream in the center , then spread it with a spatula. Lay the next slice of pandoro on top, making sure to misalign the points so that those of the slice below remain visible . Continue in this way until all of the pandoro is reassembled. Now garnish the protruding points with dollops of diplomatic cream .
Place the berries on the dollops of cream and dust everything with powdered sugar . Finally, add a couple of sprigs of currants on top. Your stuffed pandoro is ready to be served !
The stuffed pandoro can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days; it is recommended to let it sit at room temperature for about 20 minutes before serving.
The diplomatic cream can be stored in the refrigerator for 3 days, covered with cling film. Alternatively, you can freeze it for a month.
You can vary the filling as you prefer, for example by preparing a simple mascarpone cream or custard , or a Chocolate Cream for Pandoro !

