name:
Savory Vegetable Tart
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8oz(230 g)- (1 roll)
Zucchini: 12.3oz(350 g)
Carrots: 12.3oz(350 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 1.3cups(300 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.4oz(40 g)- (to be grated)
Type 00 flour: 0.9oz(25 g)
Butter: 1.8tbsp(25 g)
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The savory vegetable tart is the perfect appetizer to prepare for a picnic or a lunch with friends. The version we propose is very tasty because it is made with a base of puff pastry, a bechamel enriched with eggs and cheese, and delicious crunchy ribbon-cut vegetables. The concentric circle decoration makes the savory vegetable tart very original and appealing. For an alternative version, try the recipe for the savory vegetable tart in a pan , no oven needed!
Spice up your buffets with these delicious savory tarts with vegetables:

To make the savory vegetable tart, start by preparing the bechamel: in a saucepan, heat the milk flavored with nutmeg . In another, melt the butter and add the flour all at once . Cook while stirring with a whisk to create the roux , the thickening base typical of such sauces.
Add the hot milk , first pouring a small portion to temper and dissolve the lumps. Then pour all the rest and stir continuously , also adding a pinch of salt and cooking until it reaches a thick consistency . Let it cool at room temperature covered with cling film in contact.
Peel and trim the carrots, also trim the zucchini and cut them lengthwise with a mandoline to a thickness of 0.06-0.08 inches . The slices should be very thin and flexible. In the meantime, in a bowl, combine the eggs and grated cheese .
Stir to combine . When the bechamel has cooled, add the egg mixture and mix with the whisk until you get a smooth cream .
Roll out the puff pastry in a 9-inch diameter buttered springform pan , or if you prefer, you can line it with parchment paper. Prick the bottom with a fork and pour the bechamel, cheese, and egg mixture, making sure to distribute it evenly .
Now insert the slices of carrots and zucchini alternately starting from the outer perimeter and proceeding in concentric circles until the tart pan is completely filled . Slightly fold and roll the edges. Brush the surface with oil .
Season with salt and pepper . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 45 minutes. Take out of the oven, let it cool slightly, then remove from the mold and serve your savory vegetable tart .
The savory vegetable tart can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
You can freeze it after baking, already portioned.
You can enrich the surface with grated cheese, aromatic herbs, and breadcrumbs for extra golden brown color!

