name:
Pandoro cake
ingredients:
Pandoro pastry: 9oz(260 g)
Whole milk: 1cup(200 g)
Egg yolks: 3(55 g)- (around 3)
Sugar: 5tbsp(60 g)
Dark chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Isinglass: 1tsp(7 g)
Heavy cream: 1cup(200 g)
Currants: ¾cup(100 g)
Dark chocolate: 1oz(30 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + the cooling time in the fridge (at least 3-4 hours)

instructions:
Choosing which Christmas dessert to bring to the table is never simple. Pandoro and panettone are the undisputed kings of the festive season, but they are often set aside to make room for even more mouth watering desserts. Today we present you with the pandoro cake , which will delight traditional and refined palates alike. A melt-in-the-mouth chocolate Bavarian cream served with a wreathe of soft pandoro slices, while the red currants add an extra festive touch. You too can prepare this pandoro cake and enjoy it with your family.
If you are looking for other ways to use pandoro, have a look to the following recipes:
Pandoro tree
Pandoro tiramisù
Pandoro tiramisù with baileys
Pandoro tiramisù with wild berries
Zuccotto di pandoro
Pandoro stars with eggnog cream
To prepare the pandoro cake start by preparing the custard. Place all the egg yolks in a bowl, add the sugar and stir with a spatula . Leave to one side for a moment and stir occasionally; in the meantime, heat the milk in a saucepan. Remove the seeds from the vanilla bean and add them to the milk, along with the emptied bean . Soak the isinglass in a little cold water
and finely chop the dark chocolate . As soon as the milk starts to boil, remove the vanilla bean and add a little milk to the egg yolk mix, to temper it .
Stir and pour the ingredients into the saucepan . Now stir some more with a whisk , to even out the mixture, then stir continuously with a spatula to bring your custard to a temperature of 183 °F ( 84 °C) .
Remove from the heat and add the thoroughly wrung out isinglass , stir until fully dissolved and add the previously finely chopped chocolate, stirring all the while . As soon as it fully dissolves ,
pour the cream in another bowl you will have placed inside another bowl containing water and ice . Stir with a whisk until thoroughly cooled . Now start whipping the cream , it won't need to be stiff.
As soon as it is frothy and semi-whipped, switch the whisk off and gradually add the chocolate cream , stirring delicately from the bottom up .
As soon as your chocolate Bavarian cream is ready , leave it to one side for a moment and cut the pandoro. Cut the base slice and leave to one side , then turn the pandoro over and cut 3 slices , each around 0.6" (1.5 cm) thick.
Cut each star in half and tip the sides of each slice . Take the base slice and use a 7" (18 cm) round cake cutter to cut a precise circle , which will be the base of your crown.
Now place a 9" cake circle cutter on a serving dish and arrange the pandoro slices around it , with the 7" (22 cm) disc on the base . Now pour the Bavarian cream inside and place back in the refrigerator covered with a glass cake cloche for at least 3-4 hours.
Once the Bavarian cream solidifies , remove the cake circle cutter and arrange the red currants along the edge, to decorate .
Use a potato peeler to cut a few shards of chocolate and arrange them in the center . Sprinkle with some powdered sugar and serve your pandoro cake .
The pandoro cake can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can prepare the pandoro cake one day ahead and keep it in the refrigerator over night.

