name:
Star cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3cups(350 g)
Butter: 1stick(250 g)- cold
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Egg yolks: 4
Baking powder: 2tsp(8 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Orange peel: 1- (or lemon peel)
Egg whites: 1
Brown sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 35 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Star cookies were created from a simple and genuine recipe for a delicious shortcrust pastry , which is perfect for making with little ones during the festive season. Fragrant and crumbly, these biscuits can be hung from the Christmas tree with colorful ribbons, but they also make delicious seat markers or appetizing gifts, accompanied with some aromatic homemade liqueur , like the coffee one. Be sure to have cookie cutters and aprons ready - bring all the magic of Christmas to the table has never been so easy!
To make star cookies , place the flour , yeast and cold diced butter in a capacious bowl. Add the egg
and sugar . Flavor with the seeds of a vanilla bean and the orange or lemon peel .
Mix the ingredients together by hand . Now that you have gathered all the ingredients together , move to a pastry board and shape the piece of dough so that it is smooth and homogeneous .
Roll the shortcrust pastry out with a rolling pin . It should be 0.1-0.2 inches thick . Now use the star-shaped cookie cutter to shape the dough .
Use the special cylinder to make a hole in the middle of each star . You can also make holes with smaller star cookie cutter .
Place the stars on an oven tray lined with parchment paper, brush some egg white onto the surface and sprinkle with brown sugar . Any leftover pastry scraps can be rolled out once more to create other stars . Bake in a static oven preheated to 355°F (180°C) for around 20 minutes. Once baked, remove the cookies from the oven and leave them to cool before enjoying them or hanging them on your tree!
The cookies can be stored in a tin for a week. Uncooked shortcrust pastry can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days. Or it can be frozen for up to 1 month.
If you want to prepare cookies for hanging, as soon as you remove them from the oven use the flat part of a wood skewer to make a hole in them, so that you can feed the ribbon through and hand them on the tree. If the pastry is too soft, leave it to rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes to firm up.

