name:
Christmas Tiramisu
ingredients:
Eggs: 7.8oz(220 g)- (about 4 medium) at room temperature
Sugar: ⅔cup(125 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(70 g)
Potato starch: 6 ½tbsp(60 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Sugar: 6.8tbsp(85 g)
Water: 5tsp(25 g)
Egg yolks: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)- (about 3 medium eggs)
Fresh liquid cream: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.25oz(6 g)
Coffee: 4tbsp(60 g)
Fresh liquid cream: ½cup(100 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tsp(10 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 4tbsp(20 g)
Colored candies: 5- chocolate flavored
Biscotti: 2- chocolate coated

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + the time for the cream to set in the fridge (30 min.)

instructions:
To prepare the Christmas Tiramisu, start with the sponge cake: in the bowl of a stand mixer (or a bowl with hand mixers), add the eggs and sugar , then start to whisk for about 15 minutes .
When the mixture has tripled in volume and creates ribbons when the beaters are lifted , add the previously sifted flour and cornstarch . Gently fold the dry ingredients into the mixture using a spatula, making upward movements .
Pour the batter into a greased and floured 12x16 inch pan, leveling the surface carefully with a spatula . Bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for about 40 minutes . Once the sponge cake is golden, remove from the oven and let cool .
Meanwhile, soak the gelatin sheets for the mascarpone cream and prepare the Pâte à bombe : in a steel saucepan, pour the water and sugar . Place over the heat and monitor the temperature with a thermometer; it should reach 250°F .
When the syrup reaches 239°F, start whisking the egg yolks in a separate bowl , then slowly pour in the hot mixture at 250°F while continuing to whisk. Keep whisking until the mixture returns to room temperature, which should take about 15 minutes. If it's still a bit liquid, don't worry .
Now place the mascarpone in a bowl, flavor with the seeds from the vanilla bean , and add the pâte à bombe . Gently mix the mixture with a whisk .
Finally, incorporate the gelatin, drained and squeezed, into a small bowl with the hot cream . Stir to dissolve completely and add it to the mascarpone cream . Transfer the obtained cream into a bowl , cover with plastic wrap in contact with the surface, and let rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. For convenience, you can use a piping bag without a nozzle.
You are ready to shape and assemble the dessert: remove the top layer of the sponge cake with a serrated knife , then cut out 2 discs with a 6.5 inch cutter and 2 discs with a 4.5 inch cutter . With the scraps of sponge cake, cut out the stylized shape of a little hat .
On the serving plate, squeeze some dollops of cream to help hold the sponge cake in place . Place the first two discs, the smaller one on top and the larger one below . Moisten the surface of both with the cold coffee .
Cover the discs with the cream , then place the other 2 discs on top and moisten these with the coffee as well. At this point, whip the cream with the sugar and cover the entire tiramisu with the whipped cream, using a spatula .
Create a stencil from parchment paper by cutting out the shapes of the eyes and smile, then apply it to the smaller disc and dust with cocoa powder. Dust the little hat as well. Finally, complete with chocolate candies to simulate buttons and 2 chocolate-covered cookies for the arms . Your Christmas Tiramisu is ready to be served !
The Christmas Tiramisu can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
For a child-friendly version, you can replace the coffee with a milk and cocoa syrup.
Removing the crust from the sponge cake is essential to achieve a smooth surface: use a bread knife or gently scrape with a serrated knife.

