name:
Scallops au gratin
ingredients:
Scallops: 8
Bread: 3.5oz(100 g)- Soft part of bread
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(40 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Parsley: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Marjoram: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Scallops au gratin is a perfect starter for parties: a delicate and aromatic breadcrumb coating flavored with thyme, marjoram and parsley perfectly complement this refined seafood, an exquisite alternative to more common mussels . Scallops au gratin are perfect for serving to your guests at dinner on Christmas Eve or for Christmas lunch. Scallops au gratin are simple to make, even at the last minute. All you have to do is prepare a moist breadcrumb coating and select the juiciest scallops ...once prepared simply bake, leaving you plenty of time to set the table! Let the party begin!
Check out more recipes with sea scallops :
To prepare scallops au gratin , start by making the breadcrumb coating: remove the crust from bread (which you can then use to make croûtons); dice the soft part into small pieces . Place in a mixer, add the oil , salt and pepper to taste .
Add the aromatic herbs, parsley, marjoram, thyme (4-5) and lastly, the grated zest of a lemon .
Blend to obtain the breadcrumb coating ; with these amounts, your coating will remain perfectly moist, for a delicious dish that is never too dry. Take the scallops, place them on a baking tray and fill the shell with the breadcrumb mix you have just prepared . Place the scallops in a fan-assisted oven preheated to 380°F (190°C) and bake for around 15 minutes, or until the coating turns invitingly crisp . Your scallops au gratin are ready to be served!
Scallops au gratin are best enjoyed freshly baked when still hot. They can be stored for 1 day in the refrigerator, in a sealed container.
Freezing is not recommended.
Lemon and aromatic herbs are perfect for the breadcrumb coating, but you can add variety: for example, for a winning combination, remove the lemon zest and add pistachio and cherry tomatoes!

