name:
Candied almonds
ingredients:
Almonds: 1cup(150 g)
Sugar: 10tbsp(120 g)
Water: 2.4tbsp(35 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time

instructions:
Once they were very easy to find, especially at festival stalls or amusement parks, together with Luna-Park Fritters : they were sold inside plastic bags and it was impossible to resist eating one after another... now they are a bit less common, and that's why we explain how to prepare candied almonds at home! Also known as "mother-in-law's sleepers," these crunchy pralines are made with only three ingredients and can become a delicious treat to include in the stocking for Epiphany or a fun Christmas gift for your friends, perhaps paired with another typical festival delicacy like Giuggiulena . Follow our instructions and in just a few steps you will have a tasty snack to munch on that will make both adults and children happy: the former will relive the nostalgia of past times, while the latter will compete to see who can eat more… here's the candied almonds recipe!
To make the candied almonds, first prepare a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and set it aside. Now take a pot or a pan, preferably made of steel, and pour in the sugar and water . Then add the almonds .
Turn on the heat to medium-low and start stirring: initially, the water and sugar mixture will be very liquid , then it will begin to boil and finally crystallize, forming a coating around the almonds .
At this point, lower the heat slightly and continue stirring until the sugar starts to caramelize and take on a dark amber color . Once browned, pour the almonds onto the baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Be sure to space them as much as possible, using the spoon ; as they cool , separate them with your hands to prevent them from sticking together and serve them in a small bowl . Your candied almonds are ready to be enjoyed or gifted!
Candied almonds can be stored at room temperature, in an airtight container or sealed in plastic food bags, for about 7-10 days.
For this recipe, it is preferable to use steel pots instead of non-stick ones. Follow the same procedure to make candied hazelnuts or peanuts! By continuing the cooking, you will get delicious caramelized almonds.
Do you know why in certain areas candied almonds are known as "mother-in-law's sleepers"? It seems that it was a common custom, when visiting the girlfriend's house, to bring a bag of these sweets as a gift to the mother: this way, the mother-in-law wouldn't have a chance to disturb the lovers because she would be too busy slowly dissolving them in her mouth to avoid ruining her teeth... and sometimes she would even fall asleep!

