name:
Cavatelli with speck, creamy potatoes and arugula
ingredients:
Cavatelli pasta: 0.75lb(350 g)
Speck: 7oz(190 g)
Potatoes: 7oz(200 g)
Arugula: 3.5oz(100 g)
Whipping cream: 1cup(240 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ⅓cup(40 g)
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you like a mouth-watering first course with a creamy sauce, then we have just the recipe for you: Cavatelli with speck, creamy potatoes and arugula , featuring a velvety, enveloping sauce reminiscent of a 4-cheese pasta, delicious notes of crispy speck, and the peppery taste of arugula that will really take this recipe up a gear. Cavatelli pasta, so rich and substantial, is a real comfort food, offering that little bit of indulgence we all need to enjoy from time to time!
To make your cavatelli with speck, creamy potatoes and arugula , first boil the potatoes in their skins for 30-40 minutes until soft. Cooking time may vary depending on the size of the potatoes. Once cooked, mash them in a pan using a potato masher . Add the cream and heat over a low heat, stirring continuously with a whisk.
Once you’ve achieved a fluid consistency, remove from the stove and blend using an immersion blender until smooth and even . Add salt and pepper to taste and set aside . Bring a pan full of salted water to a boil; this will be used to cook the pasta.
Finely dice the speck . Heat a little oil in the pan and add the speck and thyme leaves .
Brown until the speck is crispy . Add the arugula, having washed it beforehand . Stir, and allow the arugula to wilt. Meanwhile, cook the cavatelli .
Loosen the consistency of the cream by adding in a ladleful of the pasta cooking water . Add the creamed potatoes to the sauce . Once the cavatelli are cooked, drain them into the pan .
Add some of the cooking water , adjusting the amount depending on the consistency of the sauce. Season with the grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese and serve your cavatelli with speck, creamy potatoes and arugula nice and hot .
We recommend eating the cavatelli with speck, creamy potatoes, and arugula immediately, although any leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for a day. Not recommended for freezing.
You might like to change things up a little by replacing the cream with milk and the arugula with sliced asparagus pan-fried with a clove of garlic.

