name:
Apple and orange cake
ingredients:
Stayman apples: 4
Oranges: 1
Type 00 flour: 3 ⅓cups(380 g)
Eggs: 4(220 g)- medium, at room temperature
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)- (+ to taste for the top)
Greek yogurt: ⅓cup(90 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)- melted
Baking powder: 3 ⅓tsp(16 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Apple cake is an authentic dessert that’s always been a firm favorite of ours and has inspired us to create other delicious variants such as an apple and chocolate cake, for those with a sweet tooth; a gluten-free blackberry cake; and even an eggless cake containing yogurt for those who prefer a lighter version. The latest exciting addition to this tasty list is this apple and orange cake , its name hinting at the citrusy aromas that will be released as it cooks, making for a deliciously aromatic cake. The distinct notes of orange offer a tasty new take on this soft apple cake that showcases the winter fruits at their best, so why not take breakfast and snack time up a gear with a slice of this delicious apple and orange cake !
To make the apple and orange cake , first melt the butter over very low heat and set aside to cool. Wash and dry the apples thoroughly, then slice them in half and remove the cores . Cut three of the four apples into thin, uneven slices without peeling them , then cut the fourth apple into more even slices, as these will be used for decoration later .
Season the uneven apple slices with the orange zest and juice , stir, and set aside .
Pour the eggs into a bowl and whip them with an electric whisk, adding the cup (200 g) of sugar a little at a time . Next, add the cooled melted butter and Greek yogurt , continuing to stir as you do so,
to achieve a light, even mixture . Now sift in the flour through a sieve , along with the baking powder , and stir gently with a spatula.
Add the orange-flavored apples to finish (13-14). Grease and flour an 8-inch (20-cm) cake pan and pour in the mixture.
Spread it with the back of a spoon to get an even surface . At this point, take the apple slices that you set aside for decoration and arrange them side by side covering the whole cake .
Sprinkle the surface with granulated sugar and bake in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (175°C) for 70 minutes, until golden brown . When it’s done baking, take the apple and orange cake out of the oven and serve sprinkled with powdered sugar to taste .
Store the apple and orange cake at room temperature, preferably under a glass cake dome, for up to 2-3 days. The cake can be frozen once baked.
You can also use other types of apples, such as Pink Lady, Annurca, or Fuji.
If you like a touch of spice, try adding a little cinnamon or some chopped cloves to your cake, and serving it with a nice scoop of ice cream!

