name:
Turkey shanks with risotto
ingredients:
Turkey shanks: 2lbs(950 g)- (four)
Garlic: 1clove(10 g)
Lemon peel: ½
Parsley: 4tbsp(40 g)
Meat broth: 2cups(500 ml)
White onions: 5oz(150 g)- (finely chopped)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Type 00 flour: ½cup(50 g)
Butter: 1stick(50 g)
White wine: 5tbsp(80 ml)
Carnaroli rice: 2cups(350 g)
Vegetable broth: 4cups(1 l)
Baby Zucchini (summer squash): 8oz(250 g)
Zucchini flowers: 4oz(125 g)
Celery: stalk
Carrots: ½
White onions: ½
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1oz(50 g)- (for grating)
Butter: 1stick(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
White wine: 3tbsp(45 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Whenever there is mention shanks, our mind immediately takes us to the traditional Lombardy recipe, the famous ossobuco Milanese served with the classic saffron risotto . This is the typical recipe that inspired today's dish: turkey shanks with risotto . Tender turkey shanks, as an alternative to veal, accompanied by a fragrant risotto with abundant zucchini and tasty flowers that add color to the dish. A rich and substantial single dish, for a flavorsome start to the autumn!
To make turkey shanks with risotto , prepare the turkey shanks: cut into the membrane encircling the marrowbones , to prevent the meat cuts from "curling" during cooking, wrap in twine , dredge all four marrowbones with flour on both sides and leave them to one side in a bowl.
Place the butter and oil in a capacious pan , add the finely chopped onion and sweat on a low flame, with a ladle of meat stock .
). When the onion is ready it will become transparent (this will take around 15 minutes). Add the shanks and thoroughly brown on both sides . Now add a glass of white wine . Reduce, add salt and pepper to taste, followed by the broth .
Cook on a low flame for at least 45 minutes, with the lid on , but not entirely closed; move the pan to create ripples on the surface of the contents, every now and then add some broth so that the turkey shanks do not stick to the pan. Finely chop the parsley, garlic and lemon rind and leave to one side, to flavor the them later on. In the meantime prepare the risotto: Remove the zucchini from the flowers ,
wash and cut the zucchini into slices , open the flowers to remove the pistils inside and leave them whole. Finely chop the vegetables for the sautée base, as described in the sheet on how to make a sautée base. Heat the olive oil in a pan and add the finely chopped vegetables ,
leave to brown for a few minutes before adding a ladle of vegetable broth ; cook for another 10 minutes. Now add the rice, toast it, add the white wine, simmer and reduce ; gradually add the broth as the risotto continues cooking .
Half way into the cooking time, add the zucchini and when the risotto is cooked, remove from the flame, add the grated cheese , the butter and stir until creamy.
Finish by adding the zucchini flowers . In the meantime the shanks will have finished cooking, so flavor them with the finely chopped herbs and serve the risotto hot, together with the shanks .
Marrowbones are best served immediately with risotto, or they can be stored in the refrigerator for up to a day, in a sealed container. You can freeze shanks, freezing the risotto is not recommended.
As an alternative to turkey shanks you can use veal ones. You can also prepare some polenta to serve with the meat, for a more wintry version.

