name:
Spinach patties
ingredients:
Stale bread: 4oz(130 g)
Spinach: 17oz(500 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Whole milk: 1cup(300 g)
Eggs: 1(50 g)
Breadcrumbs: 5tbsp(50 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2oz(60 g)- (for grating)
Fine salt: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 1cup(200 g)
Eggs: 2
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 9 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + 1 hour of rest of the patties

instructions:
It always brings joy to the table, especially for little ones who absolutely love it. Of course we're talking about patties : with its irresistible breading, it is a timeless second course of the Italian cuisine. Various versions include the fish one, fresh and aromatic, the chicken one, oven baked, or the sweet one with apples. In addition to these delicacies, we also present you with spinach patties , a nourishing yet morish vegetarian version that is in no way inferior to the traditional recipe, we are certain it will be an absolute success too!
To prepare spinach patties , start by cooking the spinach. Heat the oil and the garlic in a capacious pan, gradually add the spinach and put the lid on to sweat them .
When the spinach is cooked, remove the garlic and place them in a sieve to drain the water . When they cool down, drain and finely chop them with a knife .
In the meantime, dice the old bread , place in a bowl and add the milk to soften it: this will take around 10 minutes, depending on how hard the bread is. Stir the bread in by hand, to amalgamate it well .
Place the spinach in a capacious bowl, along with the softened bread and the grated cheese ; flavor with the grated nutmeg .
Add the thyme leaves , the egg and salt to taste. Stir by hand to amalgamate the mixture.
Now add the breadcrumbs too, adjust the amounts used according to the consistency of the dough . Stir once more , cover with plastic wrap and leave to rest in the refrigerator for around 30 minutes.
Once the 30 minutes are up, take the dough and shape 9 cutlets by hand, each around 3 oz (85 g) , then place them on a tray lined with parchment paper . Leave to harden in the refrigerator for another 30 minutes. Beat the eggs with a little salt. Once the hardening time is up for the patties, dip them in the egg .
Now dip them in the breadcrumbs and repeat for each pattie . Fry them in the hot oil at around 340 ° F (170 ° C) for around 4-5 minutes .
When golden , drain them onto a tray with absorbent kitchen paper and serve them nice and hot .
We recommend enjoying spinach patties freshly made; if any are left over, you can store them in the refrigerator for one day. They can be frozen raw.
You can oven bake spinach patties too: preheat the oven to 392 ° F (200 ° C), place the tray with the patties on the middle shelf and bake for 20 minutes; turn them over and bake for another 5 minutes. If you don't want to bread them, you can cook the patties in a pan with a drizzle of oil for around 3-4 minutes on each side.

