name:
Pasta allo scarpariello
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 0.75lb(320 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 1lb(500 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: ¼cup(30 g)- grated
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ¼cup(30 g)- grated
Basil: 1bunch- large
Fresh chili pepper: ½
Extra virgin olive oil: ⅓cup(70 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make your pasta allo scarpariello , start by heating a saucepan with water to cook the pasta. Once the water is boiling, add a little salt. Take the Datterino tomatoes, wash them and slice them in half , then take the long fresh chili pepper, trim it and open it up to remove the seeds , before slicing it into strips and chopping it .
Grate the Pecorino Romano and Parmigiano Reggiano cheeses. Pour the extra virgin olive oil into a large pot and heat. Add the chopped chili and the whole peeled garlic so it will be easier to remove . Fry for around 3 minutes, stirring occasionally, then add the datterino tomatoes , and cook over medium heat for around 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, boil the spaghetti until it is cooked al dente. Once the tomato sauce is ready, season with salt, remove the garlic , and add some of the basil leaves . Add a ladleful of cooking water to create a delicious creamy texture.
Drain the spaghetti, keeping a couple of ladlefuls of cooking water aside, and pour the pasta directly into the pot with the sauce . Finish cooking in the pan over medium-low heat, mixing the spaghetti into the sauce and adding cooking water if necessary, so that the sauce is creamy. Turn off the heat and add the grated Pecorino Romano and Parmigiano Reggiano cheeses in several stages, alternating them with more cooking water as needed
and stirring constantly so the cheese doesn’t go stringy . Flavor again with some basil leaves . Serve the pasta allo scarpariello immediately, adding more fresh basil to each plate .
This pasta allo scarpariello is best eaten immediately. Storing it is not recommended.
You may choose to use a different type of pasta, preferably a long or fresh variety, such as scialatielli, which will hold the sauce well. Alternatively, you can use tomato fillets or yellow tomatoes.
It’s best to stir well and continuously as you add the grated cheeses, alternating them with the pasta cooking water to keep the cheese from congealing.

