name:
Tomato tart
ingredients:
Butter: 1stick(100 g)- very cold
Type 00 flour: 2cups(200 g)
Water: 4tbsp(60 g)- very cold
Fine salt: 1pinch
Oregano: 1tsp
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 3cups(500 g)
Whole milk: 5tbsp(80 g)
Eggs: 1(55 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Tomatoes: 0.75lb(350 g)- mixed, including datterino, golden, cherry and other varieties
Arugula: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes to let cool the shortcrust pastry

instructions:
To prepare the tomato tart , start by making the shortcrust pastry . Place the flour, salt and very cold butter, straight from the refrigerator in the mixer. Blend to obtain a mixture with a sandy consistency
and place it on a work top. Add the oregano , then the freezing cold water and knead by hand . In this way you will obtain a homogeneous dough. Wrap it in plastic wrap and leave it to rest in the refrigerator for at least half an hour .
In the meantime prepare the ricotta cream. Sieve it in a colander , then add the milk , the egg ,
salt and pepper to taste , stir and keep to one side . Rinse and dry the tomatoes, then cut them into slices that are around a third of an inch thick. You can cut them into different shaped slices, so some in half, others into quarters, horizontal or vertical slices too .
The dough should have cooled down by now. Remove it from the refrigerator and roll it out with a rolling pin on a pastry board lightly sprinkled with flour . The result will be a pastry sheet that is around 0.2 inches (0.5 cm) thick, big enough to line a 9.5 inch (24 cm) tart mold with a removable disc. Before placing the shortcrust pastry inside the mold, remember to grease it with the butter . Make sure it adheres to the sides, by pressing down with your finger tips ;
remove any excess dough by pressing down on it with the rolling pin . Perforate the surface with the prongs of a fork and add the ricotta cream .
Even out the surface and add the tomatoes to the cream , arranging them randomly yet tidily .
Now the tart is ready to be cooked : bake it in a static oven preheated to 355 ° F (180 °C) for 30 minutes on the lowest shelf (not in contact with the oven base) and then for another 20 minutes on the highest shelf (make sure the surface doesn't burn). If you prefer, you can add a touch of color to the surface with a few more minutes under the grill . Once baked leave to cool for a few moments before sprinkling some fresh rocket onto your tomato tart , then serve !
Tomato tart is delicious served hot and cold, so if you prefer you can store it in the refrigerator for a couple of days and enjoy it cold. If you prefer, you can prepare the shortcrust pastry 1-2 days before; it is best to use the cream freshly made however. If you add the cream to the mold then the tart will need to be baked immediately, otherwise the base could become soggy.
Try making the tomato tart even richer by adding other vegetables, zucchini slices, perhaps grilled, or some diced peppers!
The sheer multitude of tomato varieties has also inspired delicious first courses, like tuna and tomato paccheri pasta!

