name:
Chestnut and chocolate cake
ingredients:
Chestnut flour: 2cups(240 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 3tbsp(20 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(160 g)
Eggs: 5(250 g)- medium
Baking powder: 1 ⅓tbsp(16 g)
Whole milk: 1 ⅓cup(310 g)
Vanilla bean: 1

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
Today we present you with the perfect dessert for those warm autumn evenings, a time for Halloween recipes, pumpkins and ... chestnuts. Chestnut and chocolate cake , oh so soft and aromatic, is a favorite for those who love to treat themselves to something sweet while they sip a piping hot cup of tea. Lovers of more'ish experiences can even accompany a generous slice of this cake with some delicate custard. The rustic flavor of the chestnut and chocolate cake , filled with sweet notes pleasantly contrasted by the presence of cocoa, make it the perfect dessert at the end of a delicate meal. Prepare it with us!
If you liked this recipe why not try our chestnut tart too!
To prepare the chestnut and chocolate cake , make sure that all ingredients are at room temperature. Place the eggs in a planetary mixer, followed by the sugar and the seeds from one vanilla pod . Whisk for around ten minutes or until the mixture becomes light colored and frothy (if you do not have a planetary mixer you can use an electric whisk) .
In the meantime, sieve the chestnut flour , baking powder and cocoa in a bowl.
Now add the milk, at room temperature, and whisk gently : be sure to avoid the formation of lumps . Now add some of the egg and sugar mix to this dough ,
to soften and temper the mixture . Add the remaining part and gently mix so that the eggs do not deflate. Fold in with the spatula, from the bottom up. Butter and line a 9" (22 cm) diameter cake mold with baking paper. Pour the mixture into the mold
and bake in a static oven preheated to 340°F (170°C), for 70 minutes, on the lowest rack . Check that it is done by performing the toothpick test. Remove from the oven and leave to cool before removing the cake from the mold and serving . If you prefer, sprinkle a pinch of icing sugar over your chestnut and chocolate cake !
Store your chestnut and chocolate cake in the refrigerator for up to 3-4 days: the important thing is that you cover it with paper wrap or keep it in a container. You can freeze it if you prefer, once baked and left to cool thoroughly.
Add a touch of flavor to your delicious chestnut and chocolate cake with some orange zest or powdered cinnamon!

