name:
Porcini mushroom risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ¾cup(320 g)
Porcini mushrooms: 14oz(400 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Yellow onions: 1- small
Garlic: 1clove
Butter: ¼stick(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3 ¼tbsp(50 g)- to be grated
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Parsley: 2spoonfuls- to be minced

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Be it their characteristic shape, intense and earthy scent, or that they seem to tell a story of fairies and enchanted woods, when it was once said that they would appear where goblins danced... mushrooms are one of the most precious gifts that the earth gives us, and there is no better way to enjoy them than in a nice porcini mushroom risotto! A creamy and enveloping vegetarian first course, it is the perfect choice to treat your guests and spoil the family when the days start to get shorter. In fact, fall is mushroom season and a good risotto is always a perfect choice! Whatever the occasion, porcini mushroom risotto is a recipe full of taste and charm; more than just a dish, it is a fall fairy tale!
To make p orcini mushroom risotto , first prepare the vegetable broth. Then clean the mushrooms: remove the base with a knife, scrape the stalk to remove any soil residue, then rub gently with a damp cloth. If some of the mushrooms have too much soil residue, pass them under a stream of running water, but be sure to dry them immediately to prevent them from absorbing water. Cut the mushrooms into slices approximately 1/4 inch (7-8 mm) thick, keeping the whole section intact where possible .
Heat the oil in a non-stick pan and briefly fry a clove of crushed garlic , then turn up the heat and add the mushrooms . Sauté the mushrooms over high heat for approximately 10 minutes until they become brown, then add salt and pepper and remove from the heat. The browned mushrooms will give the risotto a pleasant toasted note.
In the meantime, peel and finely chop the onion . Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the onion , and let it cook over low heat for 10-15 minutes, adding a ladle of broth if necessary. When the onion has softened, add the rice and toast for a couple of minutes.
When the rice has become almost transparent, cook it by adding one ladle of broth at a time and stirring frequently ; make sure that the bubbles from boiling remain constant and that the heat is not too high. When the rice is very al dente,, add the porcini mushrooms a few minutes before it is ready and finish cooking, adjusting the salt and pepper if necessary.
Once cooked, stir the risotto over low heat, adding the butter and grated Parmesan cheese , and mix well. If you prefer a less dry risotto, add another ladle of broth. Garnish with fresh chopped parsley, and your porcini mushroom risotto is ready to be served !
Risotto with porcini mushrooms can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If good quality fresh mushrooms are not available, dried mushrooms can be used: the ratio is 1:10, so 1.4 oz  (40 g) of dried mushrooms corresponds to 14 oz (400 g) of fresh mushrooms. Dried mushrooms should be soaked or blanched before cooking/. The water used to soak them can be added to the vegetable broth used to cook the rice. If you are lucky enough to find fresh porcini mushrooms, choose preferably the young ones with the cap closed and rounded; you can check that they are of good quality by making sure that the mushroom does not have a flaccid or sticky consistency and that the spongy part underneath is not greenish. For an even more intense aroma, try replacing parsley with nepitella , also known as mint!

