name:
Neapolitan-style pasta and potatoes
ingredients:
Mixed Pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Potatoes: 1.66lbs(750 g)
Celery: 0.33lb(150 g)
Carrots: 0.33lb(150 g)
White onions: 1
Lard: 4.5oz(130 g)
Tomato paste: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1- rind
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note EDITOR’S NOTE:  The rosemary is optional, as is the provola. There are, in fact, a number of variations of this recipe. Give ours a try!

instructions:
To prepare the Neapolitan-style pasta and potatoes , start by peeling the celery, carrot and onion, before chopping them finely (1-2-3).
Next, peel the potatoes and roughly chop them into small pieces of around an inch (2 cm) . Finally, slice and then chop the lard . At this point you’ll have everything you need. Now turn your attention to the stove. Pour a glug of oil into a pan, add the lard and warm over low heat for a few minutes .
Then add the chopped onion , carrots, and celery . After a few minutes, add the potatoes
and allow the flavor to develop for a few minutes, stirring occasionally to keep everything from burning . Add the rosemary and the cheese rind (you can wash it first and scrape off the outer part) ,
then add the tomato paste and stir. Pour in 2? cups (600 g) of hot water and season with pepper .
and salt . Finally, cover with the lid and cook over low heat for 30 minutes, adding a little more water if needed . Once the potatoes have softened, mash some of them with the back of a wooden spoon , then pour in the mixed pasta.
Immediately add another cup (250 g) of hot water and bring everything to a boil. Leave the pasta to cook, stirring occasionally and adding more water if necessary. Make sure it has the right amount of salt. Remember that the mixture should be creamy and almost dry once it is cooked, though. Finally, remove the sprigs of rosemary and serve your Neapolitan-style pasta and potatoes topped with a drizzle of oil .
You can store your pasta and potatoes for up to 2 days in the refrigerator. Not suitable for freezing.
One of the richest and most delicious versions of Neapolitan-style pasta and potatoes involves adding what is known in Campania as smoked provola or mozzarella. Simply cut this cheese into cubes and let it melt over the cooked dish, mixing well until it becomes stringy and creamy. Another variation, if you have any leftover pasta, or simply if you feel like experimenting with a new version, involves baking the pasta and sprinkling the surface with a few breadcrumbs to create a new and irresistible treat for the taste buds!

