name:
Baked chestnuts
ingredients:
Chestnuts: 2.25lbs(1 kg)
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + time for the chestnuts to soak

instructions:
Chestnuts : the autumn fruit par excellence! There are, in fact, over a hundred varieties of chestnut, ranging from the chestnuts to the sweet ones, and they feature heavily in many a sweet recipe, including the Mont Blanc and the simplest of cakes and creams hailing from various regional gastronomic traditions, such as the castagnaccio cake. Chestnuts are also very often eaten alone, roasted over a fire in a special perforated pan , or even baked in the oven, like in this recipe! Picture yourself sitting in front of a roaring fire, or tucked up at home on a rainy evening; there’s nothing better than a nice glass of red wine and the right company (even on Halloween) as you sit around peeling chestnuts that you’ve slowly roasted to perfection in the oven.
If you’re a big fan of this tasty fruit, you might want to check out the recipe for our irresistible chestnut cakes !
For best results, start by carving incisions into your chestnuts . Choose those that are perfectly intact and make a horizontal incision of around an inch (3 cm) in length . Then pour them into a large bowl , pour in the water , and soak them for at least 2 hours. This process makes it easier to peel them once they’re cooked.
After the necessary time has elapsed, drain the chestnuts and, if you like, put them in a paper bag that will absorb any remaining water, or use a dry cloth to dry them thoroughly. Cook your chestnuts by spreading them evenly on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , and roast in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for around 25-30 minutes. Once they’re ready, take them out of the oven, place them in a basket or bowl, and cover them with a dry cloth . Leave rest for at least 15 minutes before enjoying them, as this will make it easier to remove the skins!
We recommend eating the baked chestnuts while still hot!
Raw chestnuts can be stored in a wicker basket for up to two weeks, as they’re not sitting on top of one another.
They can be frozen raw and cooked from frozen. Once cooked, they can be peeled before freezing, in which case they must be allowed to thaw slowly and then can be eaten cold or warmed up in the oven.
The cooking time for baked chestnuts may vary depending on the size of the fruit and the oven. Move the chestnuts around every so often so that they cook evenly.
There are over a hundred varieties of chestnut. Chestnuts can be recognized by their dark brown outer covering and are small and flattened in shape. They can also be used to produce a very versatile flour that’s used to make cakes and homemade pasta. Sweet chestnuts on the other hand, are oval or heart-shaped, with a streaked, light brown skin. Their sweet flesh makes them perfect for use in sweet recipes. Whether you choose one or the other, it’s a good idea to make sure the fruit is firm before you buy it, and that the skin is bright and even in color.

