name:
Spatzle
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(250 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Water: ⅔cup(150 g)- room temperature
Fine salt: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Chives: to taste
Butter: ¼cup(55 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Spatzle are small noodles made of wheat flour, eggs, and water, a simple but tasty dish that’s very popular in the Tyrol region, its name indicative of its German origins. The characteristic teardrop shape of the spatzle is created using a special tool known as a Spatzlehobe l – a kind of grater made up of a perforated base along which a container full of spatzle mixture is slid back and forth, causing the drops of liquid dough to fall directly into the boiling water before rising to the surface a few seconds later; an ingenious tool that makes it so easy to make these tasty little noodles. The secret to this dish lies in how you make it: just a few quick steps combined with ancient wisdom for guaranteed success! Once the spatzle are boiled, simply sauté them in a pan with a little butter and chives and what you’ll get is a truly appetizing first course, perfect for when you have lots of guests and need to achieve maximum output with minimum effort! If you’d like to add a touch of color to your dish, why not try the spinach version.
To make the spatzle , sift the flour into a bowl , add the eggs and some salt , and season with nutmeg .
Finally, pour in the room-temperature water (if you’re using a potato masher to make your spätzle instead of the special tool, be a little more conservative with the water to achieve a mixture that’s more robust and less fluid) , and whisk thoroughly to combine the ingredients and obtain a smooth, lump-free mixture that’s still pretty fluid . In the meantime, bring a pot full of salted water to a boil. This will be used to cook the spätzle. Now, turn your attention to the seasoning, because the spätzle won’t take long to cook. Wash and chop the chive stalks .
Melt the butter in a large pan . In the meantime, take the Spätzlehobel , the tool used to make spätzle, or if you don’t have one, a potato masher. Place the Spätzlehobel over the pan of boiling water, pour a ladleful of the mixture into the designated space, slide the tool back and forth, and the newly formed spätzle will fall directly into the pan. Once they come into contact with the boiling water, the spätzle will cook in a few seconds , just like gnocchi.
When the spätzle begin to rise to the surface , drain them with a slotted spoon and transfer directly to the pan you used to melt the butter .
Add the chopped chives and, if too dry, add a ladleful of cooking water , stir to season, and serve your spatzle piping hot !
We recommend eating the spatzle as soon as they’re ready. If you have any left over, you can store them in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to a day. Not suitable for freezing.
Spatzle are delicious topped with fresh cream or melted butter and sprinkled with grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese, or even au gratin, baked with cheese. Spätzle dough is sometimes made with beer or milk instead of water. Another popular variation involves adding boiled and strained spinach to the dough.

