name:
Pear and chocolate strudel
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 0.5lb(230 g)- (1 rectangular sheet)
Bartlett pears: 0.5lb(350 g)
Dark chocolate: ⅔cup(75 g)
Brown sugar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Breadcrumbs: ¼cup(50 g)
Butter: 2 ¼tbsp(40 g)
Peeled almonds: 1tsp(25 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp
Powdered ginger: ¼tsp
Fresh liquid cream: to taste
Brown sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
If you are as rushed off your feet as Bolt and don't have the time to make a classic strudel base, we've got a great idea for you. A super quick pear and chocolate strudel : an extra sweet version of the traditional apple strudel featuring the timeless and delicious pairing of pears with chocolate. The addition of spices like cinnamon and ginger further enriches this dessert, making it the perfect end to a meal, or snack. Even though this dessert is really quick to make, nothing is left to chance: the braided decoration will make your pear and chocolate strudel scenographic: a feast for the eyes and palate!
To prepare the pear and chocolate strudel , start by placing the butter in a pan . Melt it, then add the breadcrumbs and leave to brown for a few minutes, stirring all the while. As soon as it is ready, place in a bowl and leave to one side .
Finely chop the almonds and the chocolate , and leave to one side. Now you can prepare the pears. Peel and tip them on both ends ,
cut them into 4 pieces and remove the core . Lastly, thinly slice the pears and place them in a bowl . Add the dark chocolate ,
the almonds , the brown sugar , the powdered ginger and
the cinnamon . Mix everything well . Unroll the puff pastry and imagine dividing it into 3 pieces lengthwise. The filling will go on the central part; cut both side parts into slanted slices that are 0.4 in wide .
Now cover the central part, first with the toasted breadcrumbs and then with the pear and chocolate filling . One at a time, lift both side strips and place over the central part, in alternation .
This way you will achieve a cage effect . Discard any leftover pieces of dough. Lastly, brush a little cream onto the strips and sprinkle with the brown sugar .
Bake in a static oven preheated to 400?F for around 20 minutes . Once baked , leave the pear and chocolate strudel to cool thoroughly before cutting into slices and enjoying it .
Pear and chocolate strudel is best enjoyed immediately as its consistency tends to change. However if you prefer, you can store it for a couple of days. If you prefer, you can even freeze it before baking and then bake it from frozen.
This pear and chocolate strudel is a quick reinterpretation of the classic dessert. If you prefer you can prepare the dough by hand and add much more filling. You can replace the almonds with hazelnuts and instead of powdered ginger you can grate some fresh ginger to taste, or replace with lemon zest.

