name:
Zucchini, tomato and sausage lasagna
ingredients:
Lasagne egg pasta: 7oz(200 g)- 12 sheets
Zucchini: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Sausage: 1.33lbs(600 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1 ⅓cup(150 g)
Shallot: 1
Tomato paste: 1 ¼tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Datterino tomatoes: 3.33lbs(1.2 kg)
Thyme: 4sprigs
Oregano: to taste- dried
Brown sugar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Butter: 1stick(50 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅓cup(50 g)
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 h 25 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
It is impossible to resist a rich, appetizing and piping hot lasagna ! A timeless Sunday dish which you'll find here in a new version: zucchini, tomato and sausage lasagna . Simply describing this delicacy tantalizes the taste buds: between the sheets of pasta lies a meat sauce that expresses itself with spring notes, made from zucchini and sausage. The tomato confit, slowly roasted in the oven with aromatic herbs, will add a sweet and sour and refined touch to the dish. If you too feel it's just not Sunday without a lasagna , then try this appetizing version!
Discover more delicious Lasagna recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make zucchini, tomato and sausage lasagna , start by preparing the tomatoes: wash the cherry tomatoes and place them whole on a tray lined with parchment paper. Season with oil , salt, brown sugar, the sprigs of thyme, dried oregano and pepper to taste . Bake in a ventilated oven preheated to 290°F (145°C) for around 120 minutes. In the meantime, prepare the b échamel : heat the milk in a saucepan , then add a pinch of salt and the nutmeg.
Separately, melt the butter on low heat , remove from the heat and add the flour in one go , beat with a whisk to avoid the formation of lumps. Return to low heat, stir until golden. Incorporate the hot milk and cook for 5-6 minutes on low heat.
Continue stirring with the whisk until the b échamel becomes dense . Now prepare the sauce: finely chop a shallot , wash and cut the zucchini in half lengthwise, then cut them into slices that are around half an inch thick .
Remove the sausage casing and crumble the meat by hand . Pour a drizzle of oil in a large pan and brown the shallot on low heat . Add the sausage and brown for a few more minutes.
Now add the zucchini , the tomato paste , salt, pepper and cook for around 8-10 minutes on medium heat. Now remove from the heat and leave to one side .
In the meantime, the tomatoes will have finished baking . Take an 8"x12" (20X30 cm) oven tray, drizzle a little oil on the bottom and add a spoon of b échamel .
Now arrange 3 of the 12 dry lasagna sheets on the bottom and cover with part of the sausage and zucchini sauce . Sprinkle the cherry tomatoes over it .
Flavor with a spoon of grated Grana Padano . Proceed with another layer of pasta, b échamel , cherry tomatoes and Grana Padano. Continue until all the ingredients run out ; with these amounts you will make 4 layers in total.
The last layer must consist of bechamel, zucchini and sausage sauce, tomatoes and Grana Padano . Bake in a ventilated oven preheated to 400°F (205°C) for 25 minutes. Once baked, remove the zucchini, tomato and sausage lasagna , and leave to cool slightly before serving .
You can store your lasagna for a couple of days in the refrigerator, or freeze them after baking.
You can get off to a head start with the recipe by preparing the cherry tomato confit and b échamel the day before. Store both in the refrigerator until use.

