name:
Yummy gluten-free chocolate cake
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 7oz(200 g)
Butter: ⅔cup(150 g)
Almond flour: 1cup(150 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Eggs: 12oz(330 g)- (around 6 medium ones)
Dark chocolate: 6oz(175 g)
Heavy cream: ¾cup(175 g)
Almond flakes: 2 ½tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + the cooling time

instructions:
It's time for a snack, you don't know what dessert to enjoy? We know how you feel, there's always so much choice. On the one hand we have the old school of thought, which could never go without savory pleasures such as bread and salami, or a filled focaccia. On the other hand, others prefer something sweet, be it simple, like ricotta and sugar, or more complex, like grandma's custard cake, a ring cake or some American muffins. But one ingredient trumps all: chocolate . So we've decided to bake this yummy gluten-free chocolate cake . In this way, those who are gluten intolerant can also enjoy this delicacy worry-free, in all its sweetness. Its consistency is very similar to Moist chocolate cake, crunchy on the outside and soft on the inside. Given the absence of flour, the cake tends to sink a little, so to make it truly beautiful and delicious, we decided to cover it entirely in a soft whipped ganache. You can't imagine just how good our yummy gluten-free chocolate cake really is, why not make it so you can tell us! Don't forget to comment if you liked it and to send your photos...unless of course it disappears before you have a chance to do so!
To prepare this yummy gluten-free chocolate cake start with the batter. Cut the butter into small pieces, place it in a small pan and melt it on a low flame . In the meantime, finely chop up the dark chocolate , place it in a bowl and add it to the butter as soon as it dissolves .
Stir right away with a spatula so that the chocolate melts; leave to one side . In the meantime, separate the eggs, at room temperature, in two capacious bowls , and start beating the whites with around half of the sugar (0.4 cups)
using an electric whisk (or a planetary mixer) . Once whipped and glossy (so a little less stiff), switch off the whisk and now beat the yolks with the remaining sugar, adding a little at a time .
After around 3-4 minutes the mixture will become light colored and frothy; now switch off the whisk and add the warm chocolate . Stir with a spatula
to obtain a soft and homogeneous mixture , then add the egg whites too . Delicately fold them in them with a spatula, from the bottom up .
Then do the same with the almond flour, it is best to use a fork to remove any lumps (16-17). Butter a 24 cm pan and sprinkle with potato starch, or line it with parchment paper .
Place the batter in the pan and smooth the surface by rotating the cake pan a couple of times by hand ; lastly, bake in a static oven preheated to 360?F for 50 minutes on the middle shelf. Leave the cake to cool entirely before removing it from the pan and placing it face down on the serving plate, so that the upper surface is now below. Don't worry, the cake tends to sink in the middle, it is normal and happens because of the lack of flour .
In the meantime, quickly toast the almond shards in a pan and leave them to one side . As soon as the dessert cools, make the whipped ganache. Heat the cream without bringing it to the boil , finely chop up the chocolate and place it in a bowl .
When the cream is nice and hot, pour it over the chocolate and stir with a spatula until all the ingredients blend together .
Place the container in a larger one with a little cold water and a few ice cubes . Switch on the electric whisk and beat to obtain a clear and frothy mixture with a soft consistency .
Switch off the whisk and coat the cake with the whipped ganache : both on top and around the entire circumference .
Clean the plate and garnish with the almond shards by sprinkling them onto the sides from above, along the entire circumference . Now your delicious yummy gluten-free chocolate cake is ready: buon appetito !
Store your yummy gluten-free chocolate cake in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. You can freeze the cake if you have used only fresh and no defrosted ingredients, without the ganache coating. Or you can prepare the base the day before and store it under a glass cloche and garnish it the day after.
Embellish your yummy gluten-free chocolate cake with some fresh or pureed raspberries, which you can pour directly onto the ganache.

