name:
Pear and chocolate cake
ingredients:
Coscia pears: 1lb(470 g)- (about 5 pears)
Dark chocolate: 7.1oz(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Butter: ¾cup(170 g)- soft
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Amaretti cookies: 3.5oz(100 g)
Eggs: 7.8oz(220 g)- (about 4 at room temperature)
Moscato wine: 0.8cup(200 g)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(8 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
Whoever coined the famous saying “never let a farmer know how good cheese is with pears” was wise, but we tempt you with an even more delightful combination: pears and chocolate! The pear and chocolate cake is one of the most classic and beloved desserts... a soft batter conceals juicy slices of Bartlett pears that blend deliciously with the intense flavor of dark chocolate. This exquisite union has resulted in many typical homemade preparations, from simple pears with chocolate to the refined Pears Belle Helene , to which we propose adding this recipe that is as simple as it is delicious! If your mouth is already watering, get to work immediately to prepare our pear and chocolate cake and don't miss out on other delightful variations on the theme:

To prepare the pear and chocolate cake, first peel the Bartlett pears , then divide them into 4 parts and cut away the central core . Place the slices in a non-stick pan and turn on the stove to high heat .
Pour the Moscato and let them cook for about ten minutes, turning them occasionally: the wine should reduce, and the pears should color; once ready, let them cool slightly. In the meantime, chop the dark chocolate .
Melt the chocolate in a double boiler, stirring with a spatula . Once melted, turn off the heat and add the room temperature butter , stirring continuously to dissolve it. Set aside .
Coarsely crumble the amaretti cookies in a bowl and set aside. Separate the egg whites and yolks into 2 bowls : using an electric mixer, beat the egg whites for a few minutes .
They should not form stiff peaks but become a soft foam . Set aside and add the sugar to the yolks: using the same mixer, beat the mixture for a few minutes until it is pale . Now lower the speed of the mixer and pour in the melted chocolate slowly, keeping it running .
Turn off the mixer and sift the flour and baking powder into the bowl . Add the amaretti cookies and mix everything well .
At this point, incorporate two-thirds of the egg whites, stirring vigorously to soften the mixture , then add the remaining third and incorporate it by stirring more gently with movements from bottom to top . Transfer half of the batter into a 9-inch buttered and floured cake pan, then level the surface .
Place the pear slices with the rounded side facing up and arrange them in a circle , then pour the remaining batter .
Level the surface again with the spatula and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 45 minutes. Perform the toothpick test before removing the cake from the oven: if it is slightly creamy inside, you can take it out and let it cool completely at room temperature, so the batter does not dry out excessively . The pear and chocolate cake is ready to be enjoyed !
The pear and chocolate cake can be stored for 2-3 days, preferably in the refrigerator. You can also freeze it if you wish.
You can replace Moscato with Passito or, for a non-alcoholic alternative, prepare flavored water with vanilla seeds and citrus zest.
If you are making this cake in the fall or winter, perhaps with Bosc pears, flavor the batter with ground cinnamon mixed with star anise for an irresistible spicy touch.
Don't have amaretti cookies? No problem: use your favorite biscuits... even better if they are almond-flavored!

