name:
Polenta medallions
ingredients:
Instant flour for polenta: 7oz(185 g)
Water: 3cups(750 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Smoked pancetta: 2oz(60 g)
Smoked scamorza cheese: 4oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 13 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note EDITOR’S NOTE: the quantities given in the video and the illustrated recipe will make 4 polenta medallions. Setting time is 30 minutes.

instructions:
Polenta has always been associated with appetizing and delicious pairings such as sausage and cheese – bold flavors in other words! You can expect no less from our recipe for polenta medallions : soft discs of polenta wrapped in delicious strips of bacon and topped with a layer of string cheese. Baking them in an oven will make them a tad less calorific than the fried version of polenta chips ! These appetizing, hearty, flavor-packed morsels make an ideal appetizer or second course. They are a delicious and sophisticated alternative to the more traditional dish of polenta with cheese and undoubtedly more appealing!
To prepare the polenta medallions , first fill a deep saucepan with 3 cups (750 g) of water and set over low heat. When the water boils, add salt and pour in approximately ¾ tbsp (10 g) of olive oil , then add the polenta flour slowly, beating all the time .
Cook over low heat for 8 minutes, continuing to stir with a spoon to prevent lumps from forming. After the end of the cooking time, turn off the heat and pour the polenta into an oiled baking dish. Spread the polenta with a spatula , but do not cover the entire base of the dish.
You should create a layer approximately 1 inch (2 cm) thick and the resulting square should be 8x8 inches (20x20 cm) . Cover with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator to set for 30 minutes. After this resting time, cut the scamorza cheese into rounds, aiming to obtain 8 slices, each measuring approximately 3 inches (7 cm) in diameter .
Take the polenta out of the refrigerator (it will have set in the meantime) and cut out 4 discs using a 3-inch (7 cm) food ring mold. Place the discs on a cutting board and wrap each one in two slices of smoked pancetta so that the edges are well covered . Transfer the discs one by one to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper.
Lay two slices of scamorza cheese on top of each of the resulting medallions and broil for 5 minutes or long enough for the scamorza to melt . When cooked, take the polenta medallions out of the oven, and serve hot !
We recommend eating the polenta medallions right away. Alternatively, you can store the polenta discs on their own (without the bacon and scamorza cheese) for 2-3 days covered with plastic wrap.
You can serve the polenta medallions with tomato sauce. You can use another string cheese such as fontina as an alternative to scamorza cheese.

