name:
Four-cheese pasta with speck
ingredients:
Speck: 4oz(100 g)
Fusilli pasta: 1lb(400 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 3oz(80 g)
Taleggio cheese: 3oz(80 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1cup(100 g)- grated
Gruyere cheese: 4oz(100 g)- grated
Whole milk: ⅔cup(150 g)
Whipping cream: ¼cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Combine the creaminess of the most delicious cheeses with the tantalizing taste of pan-fried speck and the result is a delicious first course that whets the appetite at first sight: four-cheese pasta with speck . Because the tasty sauce can be put together in the time it takes to cook the pasta, this is an easy dish you can throw together for impromptu dinners when you crave tasty comfort food but don’t have much time to cook! This amazing variation on the typical four-cheese pasta is a gluttonous treat you can afford to indulge in every now and then… there’s no need to feel guilty! And if you want to discover another delicious variation on the theme, you will certainly be wowed by our delicious Robiola cheese and speck pasta recipe!
To make four-cheese pasta with speck , first place a pot full of salted water on the stove and bring to a boil, ready to cook the pasta. Now turn to the cheese: cut the taleggio and Gorgonzola cheeses into cubes. Then cut a ½-inch (1-cm) slice of speck .
Remove the rind and cut the slice first into strips and then into cubes . Now pour the pasta into the boiling water . You’ll make the sauce in the time the pasta takes to cook. Add the cream and milk to a small saucepan.
Place over very low heat and once hot, add the cheese cubes and grated cheese . Stir with a wooden spoon over low heat to get a
creamy sauce . Now heat a little oil in a frying pan and add the speck .
Once golden brown, turn off the heat and set aside a few tablespoons to garnish the pasta once served . When the pasta is cooked, drain it and pour directly into the pan ,
add the sauce , stir to coat , and serve your four-cheese pasta with speck piping hot !
To preserve the creamy effect, we recommend eating the four-cheese and speck pasta right away.
If you prefer more delicate flavors, you can make the sauce using stracchino and Robiola cheeses instead of taleggio and Gorgonzola.

