name:
Stew with Peas
ingredients:
Beef: 2.2lbs(1.2 kg)- shoulder
Peas: 2 ¼cups(400 g)
Yellow onions: 1
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
Tomato paste: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste
Vegetable broth: 2.1cups(500 g)
Dry white wine: 0.4cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
The beef stew is a classic of homemade cooking because only a few ingredients are needed to obtain a rich and succulent main course! Stew with peas is one of the many variations that can be made: the preparation is within everyone's reach, but some guidelines must be followed for an optimal result. First of all, the choice of the cut of meat, the step of flouring and sealing, and finally the cooking time... are all fundamental elements to obtain soft and tasty beef morsels, immersed in a creamy and enveloping sauce. Follow the recipe and get ready to enjoy a stew with peas that melts in your mouth!
Don't miss these stew recipes as well:

To prepare the stew with peas, first clean and finely chop the celery , carrot , and onion .
Cut the meat into cubes of about 1 inch , then toss them in the flour and coat them evenly . Transfer the meat cubes to a colander to remove excess flour.
Heat a dash of oil in a thick-bottomed pot, then add the meat cubes and brown them for 5 minutes over high heat, stirring often . Add salt and pepper.
Deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate completely, then slightly lower the heat and add the chopped vegetables . Mix well and cover with hot broth .
Add the tomato paste and mix again , then cover with a lid and let it simmer for 85 minutes, stirring occasionally and adding more broth if necessary.
After this time, remove the lid, add the peas , and continue cooking for another 5 minutes . Your stew with peas is ready to be served !
The stew with peas can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze it if you used fresh, not previously frozen ingredients.
If you prefer, you can omit the tomato paste.
Beef shoulder is ideal for making stew, but you can also use other cuts, such as muscle, pulp, neck, brisket, or chuck.
To halve the cooking time, you can cook the stew in a pressure cooker !

