name:
Chestnut and chocolate tart
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ⅓cups(380 g)
Eggs: 2(110 g)
Butter: ⅓cup(90 g)- refrigerated
Brown sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Fine salt: 1
Chestnuts: 1lb(500 g)
Brown sugar: 3tbsp(40 g)
Rice milk: ⅔cup(160 g)
Dark chocolate: ¾cup(135 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ¼cup(60 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + 30 mins of pastry resting time

instructions:
One of the best things about fall is being able to tuck into some roast chestnuts in the park surrounded by the beautiful foliage. Tasty, flavorful, and able to whisk us away to this setting, today’s recipe pairs chestnuts with dark chocolate to create this delicious chestnut and chocolate tar t. The captivating and bitter note of the chocolate is a great match for the sweet, woody hints from the chestnuts. Let’s face it, although they’re great on their own, they’re also excellent in other tempting recipes, both sweet and savory: Chestnuts are incredibly versatile and in no case do they go unnoticed, thanks to their unmistakable flavor. We’ve made delectable chestnut and bacon bites, authentic soups, soft doughnuts, and fluffy cakes all with chestnuts, having fun as we combine new and inviting ingredients. With today’s chestnut and chocolate tart , we bring you another luscious pairing in sweet treat with two different textures: crumbly on the outside and soft on the inside. This fall, we’re taking sweet snacks to another level!
To make the chestnut and chocolate tart , first prepare the pastry. We’ve decided to use a mixer, but you can also make it by hand like in the video recipe. First, pour the brown sugar , cold butter cut into pieces, and the salt into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the flat beater attachment. Turn the mixer on briefly to combine the ingredients and then add the whole eggs .
Turn the mixer on again to combine everything well and then pour in the flour and work the dough for around 3 minutes. Once the dough is smooth , transfer it to a pastry board .
Work it to shape it into a small mound, wrap it in plastic wrap , and leave in the fridge for 30 minutes to firm up. In the meantime, turn to the chestnuts: Make an incision in them with a sharp knife (this will allow you to peel them more easily after cooking), place them in a pot with water on the stove , and cook for 20 minutes from when the water is boiling.
Once finished cooking , let them cool a little and peel them ; you’ll get around 14 oz (400 g) of chestnuts. Put the peeled chestnuts in the bowl of a food processor ,
chop them roughly , and set aside. Chop the dark chocolate as well, using a knife . Now you can start to make the cream: Pour the rice milk and sugar into a saucepan ,
then add the chestnuts , stir , and bring to a boil. At this point, remove the pan from the heat and add the dark chocolate immediately.
Stir so that it melts completely , then add the ricotta . Stir again with a whisk and then place it in the fridge for 10 minutes .
Go back to the pastry and divide it into two parts, one larger than the other : Roll out the larger part on a lightly floured pastry board, to a thickness of about ¼ inch (4-5 mm) . Use this disc to line a cake pan with an 8-inch (20-cm) diameter
and trim around the edge with a knife . At this point, fill the crostata with the chestnut cream , leveling the surface well with a spatula .
Now roll out the other part of the pastry, again to a thickness of around ¼ inch (4-5 mm), lay it across the top of the cake pan , and trim around the edge. Next, using a dough scraper, stretch the pastry across so it’s spread out well , and pinch it to make the two layers of dough stick together and seal it .
Bake on the middle rack of a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C), for around 40 minutes. When it’s finished baking, take the chestnut and chocolate tart out of the oven , let it cool, and then dust with powdered sugar and serve .
The chestnut and chocolate crostata can be kept in the fridge for up to 3 days. We don’t recommend freezing it because the filling might make the pastry too moist.
You can give the cream even more flavor by adding cinnamon powder or the seeds of half a vanilla pod.

