name:
Polenta chips
ingredients:
Fioretto corn flour: 1 ½cup(250 g)
Water: 1quart(1 l)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp
Rosemary: to taste
Coarse salt: to taste
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Polenta is one of the most versatile dishes: it goes from well-seasoned versions to more rustic ones like polenta medallions. And even in a sweet version. But what about a version for the aperitif? Do not worry, we have you covered with our polenta chips ! We suggest a recipe that, once tried, you will always prepare for convivial moments such as a nice aperitif with family or friends! The polenta chips are very easy to prepare, thanks to the method we have perfected. Fry the crunchy polenta chips and flavor them with a fragrant mix of rosemary and salt: each bite will be a moment of irresistible pleasure for the palate! We know you cannot wait to try our amazing polenta chips . What are you waiting for? Get ready to make them with us - Here is how we are going to do it!
To prepare the polenta chips , start with the polenta. Place a saucepan with water and oil on the fire. As soon as it reaches a boil, pour the corn flour while stirring rapidly .
As soon as it starts getting the right consistency, lower the heat and continue to cook, stirring with a wooden spoon , for about 30-40 minutes until the polenta has reached a fairly solid consistency . Turn off the flame and grease a 15"x10" (38x25 cm) rectangular pan .
Pour the polenta still hot , and level the surface with a spatula trying to obtain a thickness of 1/2" (1 cm) . Finally cover with parchment paper and level the surface with a rolling pin to make it smooth. Let it cool for at least 2 hours in the refrigerator .
Take the pan with the polenta and turn it over on a cutting board. With a smooth blade cut sticks about 1" (2 cm) wide . Then cut in the other direction to create rows of sticks of about 3" (8 cm) long : your chips are ready to be fried .
Place a pan with plenty of oil on the stove, and heat it until it reaches a temperature of 355°F (180°C) (use a kitchen thermometer to measure it). As soon as the oil reacheds the right temperature, dip a few pieces of polenta at a time for about 8 minutes until they are golden brown. Drain with skimmer and place on a tray lined with absorbent paper to eliminate excess oil .
Finely chop the rosemary and mix it with coarse salt. Transfer the polenta chips in a basket lined with paper towels , and serve them with a sprinkle of the rosemary and salt mix. Enjoy the still hot and steaming polenta chips !
Once the polenta chips are ready, it is advisable to consume them immediately. The non-fried chips, on the other hand, can be stored in the refrigerator for two days, covered with plastic wrap. It is also possible to freeze the polenta chips taking care to place the sticks well spaced on a tray. Once frozen they can be transferred to a freezer bag to optimize the space!
If you want to opt for a lighter version, you can bake the polenta chips at 430°F (220°C), for about 15 minutes, until they are golden and crispy.

