name:
Milanese-style pumpkin soup
ingredients:
Ditaloni rigati pasta: 0.5lb(200 g)
Pumpkin: 1.33lbs(600 g)
Water: ½cup(125 ml)
Whole milk: 2 ½cups(600 ml)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1cup(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
This vegetable originally hails from the Americas, but Italians have made it their own in a thousand different ways: Of course, we’re talking about the pumpkin , that ultimate winter comfort food. One way to use this vegetable is to make pumpkin soup : A time-honored first course hailing from the province of Milan where three simple ingredients are transformed into velvety heaven. Pumpkin, whole milk, and short pasta make a winning combination that you can jazz up with all kinds of spices. Serve it piping hot during an evening with family or friends to magically melt the ice and make everyone happy!
To make Milanese-style pumpkin soup , start by cleaning the pumpkin. Cut in half and then into wedges, then remove the seeds and inner strands and cut off the skin . Chop the pumpkin into slices ¾-1 inch (2-3 mm) thick and place them in a pot.
Add the water , salt and pepper to taste , then stew the pumpkin for a few minutes with a lid on the pot .
Once cooked, transfer the pumpkin to a food processor and blend until smooth . In another pot, bring the milk to a boil and add the pumpkin , stirring thoroughly.
Pour the pasta into the creamy pumpkin and milk mixture and cook over moderate heat, stirring frequently to keep it from sticking to the bottom. Season with grated Grana Padano cheese , setting aside a little for sprinkling on top. Your Milanese-style pumpkin soup is ready .
You can store the pumpkin soup by itself in the refrigerator for two days in an airtight container, or freeze it. After adding the pasta, we recommend eating it straight away.
Try adding freshly grated nutmeg or chopped rosemary to the pumpkin: It will smell as fragrant as it tastes!

