name:
Orange-roasted veal
ingredients:
Veal: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Orange juice: 2
Oranges: 1
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
White wine: ½cup(100 g)
Brandy: ¾cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
White onions: 1
Cornstarch: 2tsp
Water: 1tsp
Fleur de sel: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Nothing says “Sunday” like the incomparable roast of juicy meat served with mouth-watering gravy. We’ve offered various takes on this hot favorite in the past – turkey or pork, cooked in beer, and even stuffed with plums – and today we’re going to be sharing the secrets to making another succulent variant in the form of orange-roasted veal , a dish with a very subtle flavor, served with a delicious citrus sauce and peeled orange segments. Slow-cooking the meat will give you a tasty juice that you can then enhance with an aromatic brandy to create a tasty main course to add to your winter repertoire!
To make the orange-roasted veal , first peel the orange and slice into rounds . Peel and slice the onion . Next, tie the meat as shown in our practical guide to tying a roast.
Pour the butter and a drizzle of oil into a fairly large pan. Add the onion and brown over very low heat . Increase the flame and place the roast on top .
Brown the meat over high heat on both sides . Transfer the meat and onions to a baking dish.
Lay the peeled orange slices on top . Cook in a conventional oven preheated to 340°F (170°C), taking care to monitor the cooking with a probe inserted into the center of the meat, and cook until it reaches a temperature of 140°F (60°C) (this will take around 40-45 minutes). Baste the meat with the juices from time to time as it cooks . Remove the meat from the oven .
Transfer to a sheet of aluminum foil lined with parchment paper. Wrap the meat in the parchment paper and aluminum foil and leave to rest just while you prepare the gravy to serve with the roast. Transfer the cooked onions and oranges, along with the roast, to a pan and add the orange juice, brandy, and white wine .
and white wine . Add salt, and cook, allowing the alcohol to evaporate completely. In a separate small bowl, dilute the two teaspoons of cornstarch with a teaspoon of water and mix .
Add this mixture to the gravy and reduce as required . Blend the gravy using an immersion blender and keep warm in a small saucepan.
Slice an orange , then remove the string from around the meat and carve it .
Pour a layer of gravy onto the bottom of a serving dish, then lay the slices of meat on top , followed by the sliced orange, and salt to taste with the fleur de sel . Drizzle the gravy over the top and serve the orange-roasted veal piping hot .
Your orange-roasted veal will keep in a firmly sealed container in the refrigerator for a couple of days or can be frozen if you’ve used fresh ingredients.
If you don't have any brandy, you can also simmer the orange sauce with some cognac or another aromatic liqueur of your choice.

