name:
Ricotta and chocolate chip pumpkin roll
ingredients:
Eggs: 3
Egg yolks: 1
Honey: 1tbsp(20 g)
Sugar: ½cup(90 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅔cup(80 g)
Potato starch: 2tbsp(20 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Nutmeg: to taste
Pumpkin: 0.5lb(250 g)- (cooked purée)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Orange peel: 1
Chocolate drops: 2.5oz(70 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 1 h 10 min
Cook time: 18 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The first time we brought you the most classic and indulgent version with the Nutella roll, then we tried other enticing versions such as the limoncello cream roll and vanilla and strawberry roll for a fresher taste, and we also experimented with a cocoa version with the cocoa roll with white chocolate cream. To show you just how versatile this sweet treat is, today we’re bringing you the ricotta and chocolate chip pumpkin roll , made with a sponge cake enriched with cinnamon-scented pumpkin that gives this version a hint of spice. The filling is as delicious as it is easy to prepare: an orange-scented ricotta cream with the tempting addition of chocolate chips, making it all the more irresistible. If you’re looking for a unique autumnal sweet, look no further and try this ricotta and chocolate chip pumpkin roll .
To make the ricotta and chocolate chip pumpkin roll , cut the pumpkin into segments and then arrange them on a tray lined with parchment paper, cover with aluminum foil , and bake in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for 1 hour (or convection oven at 320°F (160°C) for 50 minutes). Once cooked, take the pumpkin out of the oven and leave to cool, then remove the pulp with a teaspoon or knife and place in the bowl of a food processor.
Add grated nutmeg to taste and the cinnamon and blitz until you get a smooth purée , then set aside.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, add three whole eggs plus one yolk, plus the honey and half of the sugar , and then beat the mixture at medium speed for 10 minutes .
Next, add the other half of the sugar and continue beating until it’s absorbed. At this point, turn off the mixer and sift the flour and potato starch into the bowl.
Finally, add the pumpkin purée, passing it through a strainer and stirring delicately so the mixture stays light and fluffy . Now butter an 11x15-inch (30x40-cm) sheet pan and line it with a sheet of parchment paper. Pour the batter out onto the pan
and distribute it evenly using a spatula ; you should get a layer no higher than 2¾ inches (7 mm). Bake the sponge cake in a preheated conventional oven at 390°F (200°C) for 18 minutes (or in a convection oven at 350°F (180°C) for 8-10 minutes). Once baked , take the sponge cake out of the oven and turn the pan over onto a surface covered with a sheet of parchment paper so that it’s covered on both the top and bottom . Allow to cool at room temperature for around 1 hour.
In the meantime, make the cream: Pass the ricotta cheese through a strainer at least twice to make it softer, then add the powdered sugar and the grated orange peel . Stir to flavor the ricotta.
When the sponge cake is cool, transfer it to a pastry board, keeping the parchment paper on the bottom and removing the piece on top , and spread the ricotta cream all over the surface , leaving a ½-inch (1-cm) space from the edges to keep the cream from coming out when the cake is rolled up. Sprinkle the chocolate chips over the cream ,
then roll up the cake, initially together with the parchment paper to make this step easier . Once you’ve got the roll , wrap it in a clean sheet of parchment paper and twist the two ends closed like a candy wrapper . Put the roll in the fridge to cool for at least 2 hours.
After this time, take the roll out, remove the parchment paper , and dust the top with the cocoa powder . The ricotta and chocolate chip pumpkin roll is ready to be sliced and served up .
Store the ricotta and chocolate chip pumpkin roll in the fridge for a couple of days. The roll can be frozen and defrosted in the fridge when needed.
The chocolate lovers among you will immediately think of an even more indulgent version: Try it with a chocolate pastry cream – it will be irresistible!

