name:
Gorgonzola and walnut pasta
ingredients:
Trofie pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Whipping cream: ⅔cup(150 g)
Walnut kernels: 3.5oz(100 g)
Thyme: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Gorgonzola is the quintessential blue-veined cheese. Its unique sensory characteristics and the presence of mold mean it doesn’t leave anyone sitting on the fence: You either love it or hate it. We love it, as you will have already seen from our recipes for gnocchi with Gorgonzola or pumpkin, Gorgonzola, and amaretto pasta . Today, we have an irresistible classic for you: Gorgonzola and walnut pasta . It’s a fast, easy first course that’s a tasty, creamy dish perfect for a quick, mouthwatering lunch, as well as for unexpected guests who are also lovers of this traditional cheese from Lombardy. The walnuts give this dish a nice crunch, in addition to a toasted taste that makes its flavor more pungent. Make sure you have everything you need in the cupboards, and then try your hand at this Gorgonzola and walnut pasta ... you will not regret it!
To make the Gorgonzola and walnut pasta , start by heating a saucepan with water to cook the pasta . Once the water is boiling, add a little salt and the trofie pasta. Next, warm the cream in a saucepan over low heat and, meanwhile, prepare the Gorgonzola. Remove the rind ,
then cut into small cubes and add to the pan with the cream . Add a pinch of ground black pepper, some thyme leaves, and cook over low heat for another 2-3 minutes .
You’ll have just enough time to chop the walnut kernels with a knife on a chopping board . At this point, the pasta should be al dente; transfer directly from the saucepan to the sauce using a slotted spoon. Stir to combine everything together
and to finish, add the chopped walnuts . Stir once more and then your Gorgonzola and walnut pasta is ready. Serve right away !
We recommend eating the dish right away. If you prefer to store the Gorgonzola and walnut pasta, you can keep it in the fridge for up to one day and reheat when necessary.
You can strengthen the flavor of the Gorgonzola and walnut pasta by using grated cheese such as Parmesan or Pecorino. For those with a healthier appetite, make a larger portion to keep part to bake lightly in the oven the next day: This will create a new delicious dish! Gorgonzola piccante can also be used instead of the dolce variety.

