name:
Chickpea farinata
ingredients:
Water: 4cups(900 ml)
Chickpea flour: 3 ½cups(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¼cup(50 g)
Fine salt: ½tbsp(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ⅓cup(70 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low
Note + 4-5 hours of resting

instructions:
To prepare the farinata , put the chickpea flour in a bowl and form a mound with a well in the middle. Pour water at room temperature into the well a little at a time. Mix everything thoroughly, taking care not to form lumps, until the mixture is liquid and uniform .
Cover the mixture with plastic wrap and leave to rest outside the fridge from 4/5 to 10 hours, stirring occasionally. After this time, you will notice some foam on the surface; remove this with a skimmer and stir .
Add ¼ cup (50 g) of oil and salt to the mixture and stir again .
Oil three 8-inch (32-cm) baking pans with the remaining oil (the pans used are traditionally copper or aluminum, but you can also use an ordinary nonstick pan). Use a ladle to spread the chickpea mixture over the pans . Smooth to an even thickness with the aid of a fork to ensure uniform cooking, then bake in a conventional oven preheated to 480°F (250°C) Bake in the lower part of the oven, in contact with the bottom, for the first 10 minutes. If using a convection oven, bake for just 7-8 minutes at 430°F (220°C) and then follow the rest of the steps indicated. After this time, move the pan to the top part of the oven and bake for another 10-15 minutes, depending on your oven, until the farinata is a nice golden-brown color. Take the farinata out of the oven and enjoy it piping hot, sprinkling it with black pepper to taste.
Chickpea farinata should preferably be eaten fresh out of the oven, but you can cover it and keep in the refrigerator for up to 3-4 days. We recommend warming it before serving.
The mixture can be prepared in advance and stored for up to 24 hours.
Farinata is really good on its own, but it’s even more irresistible eaten in fragrant, freshly baked focaccia: Try it… and tell us what you think!
As you travel around the towns of Liguria, you’re very likely to find modified versions of the original farinata containing new ingredients: In the west of the region, you can find farinata flavored with borage, rosemary, or oregano. Farinata with gianchetti , or whitebait, is typical of Voltri, while natives of Albissola serve farinata with artichokes, sausage, or stracchino cheese. If you’d like to try farinata with pumpkin, go to Sestri Pontente. In Albenga, on the other hand, it’s eaten with chopped parsley, while in Imperia it’s eaten with fresh onions.

