name:
Sausage and Nebbiolo risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ¾cup(320 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Onions: 1
Bra sausage: 0.66lb(300 g)
Meat broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
White wine: ⅓cup(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(10 g)
Nebbiolo grape: ½cup(125 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Bay leaves: 1leaf
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(60 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Sausage and Nebbiolo risotto is a creamy first-course dish with a sublime flavor that brings together some of the finest ingredients from the Piedmont region. The star is Bra sausage , a product with protected designation of origin (DOP in Italian) that’s perfect for savoring either raw or cooked and for making lots of dishes, including this tasty first course. Discover alongside chef Davide Scabin all the secrets to making a perfect risotto that will be taken to the next level by this special meat, which is gently cooked in Nebbiolo wine and embellished with a spring onion that will give it a real flavor explosion when you try it. Sausage and Nebbiolo risotto is the ideal recipe for anyone looking to make a delicious dish that’s full of aromas to bring out the richness of Piedmontese produce.
Discover more delicious Risotto recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the sausage and Nebbiolo risotto , start by preparing the meat broth that will be used hot in the recipe. Next, prepare the spring onion by getting rid of the roots and nearly all of the green part . Remove the outermost layer and slice the onion lengthwise .
In a frying pan, heat 1¾ tbsp (20 g) of oil, 1½ tbsp (20 g) of butter , and add the spring onion to brown it over low heat . Add a pinch of pepper and once the onion is nice and golden, turn off the heat and put the onion aside, saving the juices in the pan.
Continue with the Bra sausage: Chop the sausage into pieces to remove the skin covering it more easily , then cut the meat into smaller pieces . Turn the heat back on under the pan you used to brown the onion and lightly fry the bay leaf and half a sprig of rosemary in it . In the meantime, chop the other half of the rosemary finely and set it aside; you’ll need it later to finish off the dish.
Now you can add the pieces of sausage to the pan and let them brown well, although only on one side as the other should stay softer, so you won’t need to turn them while they’re cooking. Then deglaze with the Nebbiolo and allow the cooking juices to reduce slowly . When the sausage juices have reduced, you can remove the pan from the heat and let it cool.
Next you can move on to the risotto: Peel the onion and chop it finely ; add ½ tbsp of oil and 1½ tbsp (20 g) of butter to a thick-bottomed pan. Brown the onion , then add the rice and let it toast for a few seconds too. You won’t need to toast the rice for long,
so pour in the white wine almost immediately, then add a couple of ladlefuls of hot meat broth and reduce the heat to cook the rice slowly. You should see bubbles that aren’t too well-developed .
Continue adding broth as needed and to stir slowly to get the rice to cook. When there are 5 minutes of cooking time left, turn off the heat and make the risotto creamy by adding 3 tbsp (40 g) of butter and the Parmigiano Reggiano cheese . Stir, and then leave the rice to rest for the last 4 minutes ,
then you can dish up the risotto : Place the rice in the dish and the sausage in the middle , then finish off with the spring onion, a dusting of pepper, and the rosemary chopped earlier . Now your sausage and Nebbiolo risotto is ready to be served.
We recommend eating the sausage and Nebbiolo risotto right away.
It can be kept for up to one day in an airtight container in the fridge.

Not suitable for freezing.
We’re usually used to toasting the rice before deglazing with the wine and adding the broth, to make the grains turn transparent. In this recipe, however, we deglaze immediately so there’s less thermal shock.
Once the broth has been added, it’s important to turn down the flame under the pan to make the grains swell slowly and to prevent them from splitting, which can happen when they’re cooked over higher heat.

