name:
Sweet Halloween roll
ingredients:
Pumpkin: 0.5lb(250 g)- cooked
Eggs: 3
Egg yolks: 1
Honey: 1tbsp(20 g)
Sugar: ½cup(90 g)
Flour: ⅔cup(80 g)
Potato starch: 2tbsp(20 g)
Cinnamon powder: 1 ¼tsp(3 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Whole milk: 1 ⅔cup(380 g)
Condensed milk: ⅔cup(200 g)
Cornstarch: ½cup(60 g)
Egg yolks: 3
White chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Orange peel: 1
Pumpkin: 0.25lb(120 g)
Orange juice: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Powdered sugar: 2 ½cups(280 g)
Dark chocolate: 1.75oz(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Note + cooling time for all the elements

instructions:
Kids can’t wait to get dressed up as little monsters and witches and go trick or treating around your neighborhood? We’ve come up with a sweet treat that will give young and old alike the energy they need to head out into the spooky night among jack o’lanterns and ghosts: A sweet Halloween roll made using an original pumpkin sponge cake and filled with a delectable milk, orange, and white chocolate cream, covered with orange glaze and decorated with creepy chocolate spiders. You don’t need sugar paste or food coloring to make a sweet treat that’s appealing to both the eyes and taste buds, and today we’ll prove that with this recipe! If this has piqued your interest, get yourself some pumpkin, milk, and chocolate and call your little ones to come lend a hand: Let’s make this sweet Halloween roll together!
Discover how easy it is to make at home and also try out these Halloween recipes:
To make the sweet Halloween roll , start by removing the seeds and stringy parts from the pumpkin flesh, and cut it into slices . Arrange the pumpkin segments on a tray lined with parchment paper, cover with aluminum foil , and bake the pumpkin in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for 1 hour (or in a convection oven at 320°F (160°C) for 50 minutes). Let the pumpkin cool, then scoop the flesh out from the skin and measure out ½ lb (250 g) of flesh, which you’ll use for the sponge cake.
Put this flesh in the bowl of a food processor, grate some nutmeg into it , and also add the cinnamon powder . Blitz until creamy and then set aside.
In a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, add the 3 whole eggs and the egg yolk, honey , and half the sugar , and beat for about 10 minutes, until you get a light, foamy mixture .
Then add the other half of the sugar and beat again, until it’s absorbed. Turn off the mixer and sift the flour and potato starch into the bowl.
Next, add the pumpkin cream, passing it through a strainer . Stir the mixture carefully so it doesn’t go flat , then butter an 11x15-inch (30x40-cm) sheet pan and line it with parchment paper. Pour the batter into the pan
and spread it evenly across the entire surface using a spatula . Bake the pumpkin sponge cake in a preheated conventional oven at 390°F (200°C) for 18 minutes (or in a convection oven at 350°F (180°C) for 8-10 minutes). When it’s ready , take your sponge cake out of the oven and turn the pan over onto a cutting board covered with parchment paper: This way, the cake will be covered on both the top and bottom and will maintain the moisture it needs to become nice and spongy ; allow it to cool for around 1 hour at room temperature.
In the meantime, begin preparing the other elements, starting with the cream. Pour the whole milk and condensed milk into a pot on the stove with the heat off, and stir well with a whisk to combine. Next, add the egg yolks, one by one , stirring to make them absorb.
Sift the starch into the mixture , stir well to make it dissolve, and then turn on the heat. Zest the orange directly into the pot and allow the cream to thicken , stirring continuously.
Next, roughly chop the white chocolate , turn off the heat and add this chocolate to the still-warm cream , stirring vigorously until it’s melted completely. Transfer the cream into a low, wide baking dish , cover with plastic wrap to prevent a skin from forming, and allow to cool first at room temperature, and then in the fridge.
At this point, you can make the orange glaze you’ll use to cover the roulade. Weigh out 4½ oz (130 g) of pumpkin that’s already been cooked in the oven, pass it through a strainer , and add it to the orange juice . Then add the powdered sugar and stir well to make it absorb . Put the glaze in the fridge to firm up, too.
When all the elements are cool, take the sponge cake, remove it delicately from the parchment paper, and roll it out carefully on the counter where you’ve rolled out some plastic wrap. Using a spatula, spread the cream on the cake evenly, leaving some space around the edges . Then, using the plastic wrap to help, roll the cake from the longest side , and, finally, seal the roulade by twisting the plastic wrap closed at the ends like a candy wrapper .
Place the roulade in the fridge to cool for at least 1 hour. After this time has elapsed, unwrap the roulade, set it carefully on a wire rack positioned over a clean tray, and glaze the roulade using a spoon to spread the glaze over the whole thing , allowing it to drip down and run off so the roll is completely covered . Put the roulade back in the fridge and leave for at least 1 hour so the glaze will solidify. In the meantime, chop up the dark chocolate and place it in a bain-marie .
Allow it to melt completely, stirring every once in a while ; make sure the bottom of the saucepan that you’ve put the chocolate in isn’t in contact with the water in the pot. Put the melted chocolate in a small pastry bag with a soft plain piping tip suitable for decorations . Cut a piece of parchment paper and place on a tray. Using a pencil, draw spiders of around 1 inch (3 cm), well spread apart from one another, and a couple of different-sized spiderwebs . Next, turn the paper over so the side with the drawing is touching the tray.
Now use the pastry bag to trace and fill in the pencil drawings , and then place the tray with the chocolate decorations in the fridge for at least 1 hour so they solidify. After this time has elapsed, delicately remove the decorations from the parchment paper, using a spatula to help , and carefully arrange them on the now cooled and hardened roulade, which you’ve already removed the ends from. Your sweet Halloween roll is ready for its début !
This sweet Halloween roll can be kept covered in the fridge for 1-2 days. We recommend waiting to add the chocolate decorations until it’s time to serve the roulade.
Spiders not the spooky touch you’re looking for? You can use the same method to also draw some nice, scary... bats!

