name:
Baked eggplants
ingredients:
Eggplant: 1- large
Datterino tomatoes: 5.25oz(150 g)
Smoked scamorza cheese: 4oz(100 g)
Black olives: 1oz(20 g)- pitted
Capers: 5
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Oregano: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Eggplants originated in the ancient Orient and found a new home in southern Italy. This summer crop, packed with vitamins and water, is ideal for savory, flavorful dishes such as eggplant parmigiana and caponata , or wrapped around creamy fillings to make delicious rolls . The go perfectly with a wide variety of ingredients. Today’s dish pairs them with a classic combination: datterino tomatoes and scamorza cheese for a delicious baked eggplant dish! These succulent discs with a Mediterranean flavor make a light and delicate appetizer or side dish: baked eggplant are also ideal as finger food for a buffet. It’s excellent eaten hot but will be just as tasty at room temperature!
To prepare the baked eggplant , first wash and dry a large eggplant, then peel and cut into ½-inch (1.5-cm) thick slices . You should get around 10 slices. Now arrange the slices on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and score them with a small knife to create a grid pattern .
Oil and salt the eggplant slices (4-5), then pre-bake in a conventional oven preheated to 390°F (200°C) for approximately 10 minutes. Meanwhile, wash and dry the Datterino tomatoes, then cut them in half .
Cut the smoked scamorza into fairly thin slices. Rinse the capers and cut them in half, too. After 10 minutes, take the eggplant out of the oven .
and half a caper on each slice of eggplant. Drizzle with a little oil and season with salt and pepper .
and half a caper on each slice of eggplant. Drizzle with a little oil and season with salt and pepper .
Now bake in a conventional oven, again preheated to 390°F (200°C), for around 30 minutes . Then take out of the oven, sprinkle on some dried oregano , and serve hot or warm for a tasty Mediterranean-style appetizer .
The eggplant can be stored for 2-3 days in the refrigerator. Not suitable for freezing.
Anchovies, lemon-scented breadcrumbs, and dried or fresh chili pepper can be added to this dish for an extra Mediterranean touch. This tasty side dish can also be prepared with round zucchini. Use the exact same technique and slice the zucchini into fairly thick discs.

