name:
Creamy pumpkin, blue cheese and amaretto pasta
ingredients:
Fusilli bucati corti pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Pumpkin: 0.66lb(300 g)
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: ¼cup(50 g)
Yellow onions: 1oz(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch
Vegetable broth: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Amaretti cookies: 1.75oz(50 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 3oz(75 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Pumpkin and amaretto cookies are two ingredients that often go hand-in-hand. This might seem an unlikely pairing but trust us, it works! Today we invite you to discover the two ingredients used to create one of the most delicate and special dishes in Mantuan cuisine, pumpkin tortelli, but this time used in a simpler but equally tempting recipe: creamy pumpkin, gorgonzola and amaretto pasta . Discover the delicate flavor of creamed pumpkin, a much-loved ingredient on cold autumn and winter days… and its heavenly combination with Gorgonzola cheese, all enhanced by a sprinkling of crumbled amaretti cookies. Are you ready to amaze your guests by serving them with pasta with pumpkin, Gorgonzola cheese, and amaretti? We’re sure that not even a crumb will be left!
To make the creamy pumpkin, gorgonzola and amaretto pasta , start by preparing the vegetable broth. Then take the pumpkin: Cut it in half and remove the skin. Use a spoon to take out the seeds and inner strands . Slice and then cut into small, equal-sized cubes, and set aside. Take the amaretti cookies and crumble them roughly by hand before placing in a small bowl .
Move on to the Gorgonzola: Cut it into slices and then into small cubes before setting aside. After rinsing the rosemary thoroughly, chop it finely . Peel and finely chop the onion as well .
Take a broad-based nonstick pan and pour in the oil you will use to sauté the onion : When the onion has browned, add the rosemary to give it more flavor . Add a ladleful of broth and mix the ingredients well to blend the flavors.
Add the pumpkin and then one or two ladlefuls of broth to begin with : Allow to cook over moderate heat for 25 minutes, seasoning with salt and pepper and adding more broth as it’s absorbed. By the end of the cooking time, the pumpkin should be soft. Now you can blend it using an immersion blender .
Add the cinnamon and mix well with the other ingredients. Turn off the heat and set the creamed pumpkin aside for the time being. In the meantime, cook the pasta in a pot full of salted boiling water . When the pasta is al dente, drain it and pour directly into the pan where you cooked the creamed pumpkin : Stir the pasta well so that it absorbs the creamed pumpkin, heating for 1-2 minutes over medium heat.
Pour in the diced Gorgonzola cheese (keeping some cubes of cheese to one side to garnish the dish) and the crumbled amaretti cookies : Stir the ingredients quickly to make sure the Gorgonzola cheese doesn’t melt completely into the pasta. Your creamy pumpkin, gorgonzola and amaretto pasta is ready to be served , garnished with a few cubes of Gorgonzola cheese!
We recommend eating the creamy pumpkin, gorgonzola and amaretto pasta as soon as it’s ready, when the Gorgonzola cheese is slightly melted by the heat of the steaming pasta! If you have any leftovers, you can seal them in a container and store in the fridge for up to 1 day.
We do not recommend freezing.
To give this tasty pasta a creamy texture but a less intense flavor, why not replace the Gorgonzola cheese with another cheese such as Fontina or Edamer? Want to push the boat out? Add some lightly toasted pine nuts for a crunchy finish!

