name:
Cod and potato casserole
ingredients:
Desalted cod: 2.66lbs(1.2 kg)
Potatoes: 1lb(450 g)
Tomato purée: 2 ¾cups(700 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Breadcrumbs: ¾cup(100 g)
Thyme: 6sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Basil: 6leaves
Sugar: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Red pepper: to taste
White pepper: to taste
Green pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
Cod and potatoes is an Italian home-cooked dish with timeless, rustic flavors. Today we’re bringing it to you in the different guise of cod and potato casserole , a tasty spin on the baked recipe. This dish is made up of appetizing layers of cod alternated with slices of potato, all enhanced by a fresh and aromatic breadcrumb mixture that adds an unexpected tang with a pleasant hint of citrus. This simple, genuine main dish offers you a new and beguiling way to serve cod . Round off your fish-based menu with that evergreen favorite, spaghetti with clams, or pasta with a quick tomato and anchovy sauce!
To make your cod and potato casserole , start by preparing the sauce. Pour oil into a pan and sizzle the garlic for a few minutes. Add the tomato purée , salt, and 1¼ tsp (5 g) of sugar .
Add the basil leaves , cover with a lid and cook for 30 minutes over low heat. Now turn to the cod. Remove the bones with tweezers, cut into slices about ½ inch (1 cm) thick with a sharp knife, peel off the skin , and leave in the fridge covered with plastic wrap.
Peel the potatoes and cut them with a mandolin to get slices about the thickness of a dime (1 mm) . Add the breadcrumbs to a bowl and grate over the lemon zest .
Add the thyme leaves and the seasoned salt (made by mixing the salt with pink, black, white, and green pepper to taste) , then stir to mix everything together. By this time, the sauce will have cooked, so turn off the heat and remove the garlic clove .
Now oil an 8x12-inch (30x20-cm) casserole dish, spread your first layer of sauce on the bottom and place one third of the potatoes on top, overlapping them slightly .
Spread the fragrant breadcrumb mixture over the potatoes and then add the chopped cod . Cover with more sauce and keep alternating two more equal layers.
Finish with a layer of sauce and breadcrumbs . Bake in an oven preheated to 390°F (200°C) for 60 minutes. When cooked, take the cod and potato casserole out of the oven , allow to cool slightly and then serve .
The cod and potato casserole can be kept in the fridge for 1-2 days once cooled, and then warmed up before serving. It can also be frozen once cooked.
You can flavor with parsley instead of thyme. The breadcrumbs soak up juices from the cod, which tends to release liquid when cooked. For a more extravagant dish, you can fry the cod and potatoes first, and then arrange the layers in the same way.

