name:
Pasta with smoked pancetta sauce
ingredients:
Sedanini Rigati pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Smoked pancetta: 0.5lb(250 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 1lb(450 g)
Celery: 1cup(100 g)
Onions: 2cups(100 g)
White wine: 0.3cup(75 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Basil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the pasta with smoked pancetta sauce , start by cleaning and chopping the ingredients to be cooked: Finely chop the celery and the onion . Then chop the chili as well , removing the seeds to take away some of the heat.
Remove the rind on the smoked pancetta and chop the pancetta into tiny pieces . Finally, finely chop the peeled tomatoes and then head over to the stove. Put a pot full of water on to boil to cook the pasta.
Heat a glug of oil in another pot, then brown the pancetta with the onion, celery , and chili , over low heat.
Let them cook for around 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, so the vegetables soften and the pancetta browns . Deglaze with the wine and allow the alcohol to evaporate completely , then add the peeled tomatoes .
Shred the basil by hand , add to the pot, and season with salt and pepper . Cook the sauce for around 20 minutes or until it is dry enough or has reached the desired consistency. In the meantime, cook the sedanini rigati in salted boiling water .
As soon as the pasta is al dente, drain and pour it into the sauce . Now, just add a pinch of pepper, a drop of oil , and a few basil leaves to your plates of pasta with smoked pancetta sauce . Buon appetito !
We recommend eating the pasta with smoked pancetta sauce right away, but if you prefer, you can store it for up to 2 days. The sauce can be stored in the fridge for 2-3 days. If needed, you could also freeze the sauce and use it on freshly cooked pasta.
We didn’t add grated Parmigiano Reggiano to the pasta with smoked pancetta sauce because the sauce is already very flavorful but, if you like, a good grating of cheese could work well... you might want to make sure you use a very fresh one!

