name:
Potato gateau (gattò) with soppressata and smoked provola
ingredients:
Potatoes: 4.5lbs(2 kg)
Soppressata salami: 0.5lb(250 g)
Smoked provola cheese: 0.5lb(250 g)
Eggs: 4- (med)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1cup(100 g)- (grated)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
The term gattò comes from the French word gateau (Italianized), meaning cake. If you have already tried our recipe for potato gateau , a unique, rustic and highly flavorsome main course, you can try out this equally delicious version: potato gateau (gattò) with soppressata and smoked provola . The soft potato casing conceals diced soppressata and smoked provola, which add a special touch that no one can resist. To enrich this recipe even further, we created a refined finishing for the gattò, with potato cream tufts all over the surface of this dish. Potato gateau (gattò) with soppressata and smoked provola is a perfect recipe for sharing at the table and will enrich your menu with its aroma and flavor! An original version, made from simple and genuine ingredients that will leave you pleasantly satisfied!
To prepare potato gattò with soppressata and smoked provola , start by boiling the potatoes in a large pan; check they are done by piercing with a fork (if you want to speed things up you can use a pressure cooker, which will take around 20 minutes) . In the meantime, remove the soppressata from its casing and dice it .
Repeat with the smoked provola, then also dice it . As soon as the potatoes are cooked, peel them and mash them up in a bowl using a potato masher .
Proceed to make the dough, by adding the softened pieces of butter , the grated cheese and the eggs . Lastly, add salt and pepper.
Stir all the ingredients together with a fork or by hand, to create a homogeneous mixture . Place the mixture in a single-use pastry bag and cut off the tip . Now butter a tray, make sure you thoroughly coat the bottom and sides .
Sprinkle the breadcrumbs onto the tray . Then begin filling the tray with a first layer of potato cream , coating the entire surface; create a raised edge all the way around. When you have finished, add a layer of soppressata ;
and another of smoked provola . Add another layer of potato cream , followed by another layer of soppressata
and smoked provola , until all the ingredients are finished. Lastly, you can place any leftover potato cream in a star-tipped pastry bag and use it to add decorative tufts to embellish your dish . In this way you will make your potato gattò with soppressata and smoked provola . Bake in a static oven preheated to 360°F for the first 15 minutes (or bake in a fan-assisted oven at 320°F (160°C)  for 5-8 minutes), then grill at 400°F (205°C) for the last 5 minutes. Remove from the oven when ready and serve the potato gattò hot or warm.
Potato gattò is best enjoyed as soon as it is ready, but you can store it in the refrigerator for 2-3 days if you want. Freezing it is not recommended.
If you like, you can add nutmeg to the potato cream. You can also replace soppressata with another type of cured deli meat.

