name:
Breaded cutlet rolls
ingredients:
Turkey breast: 14oz(400 g)- (sliced)
Emmentaler cheese: 5oz(150 g)
Cooked ham: 4oz(120 g)
Eggs: 3
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 8 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Who doesn’t know and love the classic Italian recipe for the breaded cutlet known as cotoletta ? Whether it’s Milan-style, Palermo-style, or whichever cooking style you prefer – breaded and fried or baked – it’s always a tasty main course. Just imagine if the cutlet were stuffed and served as a succulent roll, as we suggest in this recipe. Our breaded cutlet rolls are filled with cheese and ham slices, making them inviting and irresistible! You can also vary the filling if you prefer and bake them in the oven instead of frying!
To prepare your breaded cutlet rolls , start by beating the meat between two sheets of parchment paper to keep the fibers intact and keep it tender . Break the eggs into a small bowl, lightly season with salt and pepper to taste, then whisk with a fork .
Dip the turkey fillets into the egg one at a time , then coat both sides with breadcrumbs (5-6).
Divide the fillets into equal portions and place one slice of cheese and one slice of ham on each portion.
Roll up the fillet portions and secure with a toothpick . You can fry them in plenty of vegetable oil, which should be no hotter than 360°F (180°C) (check this with a kitchen thermometer). Alternatively, you can bake them in the oven. In this case, it’s best to cook one roll first to find the best time and temperature before baking the rest.
Brown the rolls for a few minutes, turning them to cook them evenly , and then drain with a slotted spoon before placing on a tray lined with paper towel . Serve the breaded cutlet rolls piping hot !
The breaded cutlet rolls are best eaten as soon as they’re cooked. You can keep them in a refrigerator sealed in an airtight container before cooking, but for no longer than 12 hours because of the raw egg. They can be frozen raw if the ingredients you used were all fresh, not frozen. When you are ready to cook them, defrost them in the fridge and then fry.
Make your breaded cutlet rolls however you like them: filled with grilled vegetables, for example. Always choose a soft cheese, but avoid mozzarella, which would release too much liquid.

