name:
Glazed BBQ ribs
ingredients:
Sweet Paprika: 1tsp
Peperoncino: 1tsp
Garlic powder: 1tsp
Yellow mustard powder: 1tsp
Cumin: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1tsp
Pork ribs: 4.4lbs(2 kg)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: ½tsp
Worcestershire sauce: 2tsp
Mustard: 1tsp
Apple cider vinegar: 2tsp
Hot Paprika: 1tsp
Ketchup: 1cup(250 g)
Maple syrup: 0.3cup(90 g)
Brown sugar: 1 ¼tsp(10 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Yellow onions: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 2 hours of rest of the meat in the refrigerator

instructions:
The BBQ sauce is the real pride and joy for Americans and without a doubt a good recipe is needed to prepare succulent glazed BBQ ribs ! After trying out so many ways of preparing this irresistible second course, at last we hit the jackpot: thanks to the special BBQ sauce we have perfected, you'll be able to glaze the ribs and cook them so that they become as tender and soft as butter. To make glazed BBQ ribs you'll need a fine blend of powdered spices, better known as dry rub , which as the name suggests, will flavor the meat when rubbed onto it. For the glaze you can discover how simple it is to prepare barbecue sauce; there are so many different versions and it is truly exquisite with pork, just like in the pulled pork recipe, another incredible dish of American cuisine. But today we'll focus on the glazed BBQ ribs, are you ready? Let's begin!
To prepare the glazed BBQ ribs , start by stirring all the spices for the meat together and sprinkling around half onto one side . Rub to thoroughly coat the meat . Turn the cut around, sprinkle the rest over the meat and rub in once more .
Place the meat cut on a tray, cover with plastic wrap and leave to rest in the refrigerator for at least two hours. In the meantime, prepare the BBQ sauce: finely chop the onion and the garlic .
Place both in a saucepan with a little oil . Stir frequently as they brown. Now you can add the brown sugar , the sweet and hot paprika , stirring all the while.
Add the Worchester sauce , the vinegar and the mustard .
Add the black pepper , the maple syrup and last of all, the ketchup .
Season with just a little salt and cook the sauce for around 5 minutes, so that it acquires flavor and consistency. Remove from the heat and blend with an immersion blender . Take the meat and remove the plastic wrap .
Cover with the aluminum foil and bake the ribs in a static oven preheated to 400?F for around 1 and a half hours . Once the 90 minutes are up, remove the aluminum foil and continue to bake for another 30 minutes, to slightly reduce the liquids .
Only 30 minutes of cooking time left now, but this time part of the glaze needs to be brushed onto the surface of the ribs . The process is very simple: every 5 minutes, remove the tray and brush some of the sauce over the surface, which will become increasingly caramelized each time .
Continue in this way until you finish the sauce and the cooking time is over . Now your glazed BBQ ribs are ready, serve them with a little sauce on the side, if there is any left over .
Once ready, the glazed BBQ ribs are best enjoyed freshly prepared.
You can store the seasoned and covered meat in the refrigerator for up to 12 hours.
Barbecue sauce can be stored in the refrigerator in a sealed container, or covered with some plastic wrap.
Freezing is not recommended.
To prepare the dry rub , you could use smoked instead of sweet paprika and in general you can let your imagination run wild when you select which spices to use.

