name:
tomino cheese in a puff pastry crust
ingredients:
Tomini cheese: 4
Puff pastry: 0.5lb(230 g)- rectangular
Cooked ham: 3oz(70 g)- (4 slices)
Thyme: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Egg yolks: 1
Whipping cream: 1tbsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
We always see them at the fresh counter of the supermarket, we often buy them but rarely think to use them creatively... and yet a little really goes a long way in transforming tomino cheese into a delicious and original dish: after tomino burger, tempting even for the most enthusiastic of meat eaters, to oven baked tomino cheese, ideal for a last minute dinner, today we want to amaze you with tomino cheese in a puff pastry crust , a recipe that is delicious yet easy to make! The fragrant puff pastry jacket wraps around a delicious cheese and ham filling. Sink your fork into it and...you will be amazed by a sumptuously creamy melted heart. Serve tomino cheese in a puff pastry crust with a fresh salad or a side dish of mushrooms sauteed with garlic and parsley, to enhance its rustic notes, and you'll bring a simply irresistible dish to the table that is practically effortless to make!
To prepare tomino cheese in a puff pastry crust , lay out a slice of ham on a worktop, place a tomino cheese on one end and wrap it in the slice of ham . Repeat with the other 3 tomino cheeses. Now unroll the puff pastry and divide it into 4 strips, each 3 inches wide, measuring from the longer side of the rectangle .
Place the tomino cheese wrapped in the ham at the end of a puff pastry strip, season with a few thyme leaves and a grating of pepper . Roll the tomino cheese in the puff pastry .
Lastly, seal the edges by pressing down with your fingers . Repeat for the other 3 tomino cheeses. Place the bundles on an oven tray lined with parchment paper, beat the yolk and cream together and brush over the resulting turnovers . Cut 3 incisions into the surface of the puff pastry using a knife .
Lastly, season with few thyme leaves and some ground pepper to taste. Bake the pasta in a static oven preheated to 375 ° F (190°C) for 25 minutes on the middle shelf, or until the puff pastry becomes nice and golden . Serve your tomino cheese bundles in a puff pastry crust immediately and enjoy them while they're still hot !
Tomino cheese in a puff pastry crus t can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day.
Freezing is not recommended.
You can replace cooked ham with other deli meat of your choice, or, for a vegetarian version, with some thinly sliced zucchini.

