name:
Cinnamon rolls with liquid sourdough starter
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.8cups(235 g)- reinforced (W=300)
Type 00 flour: 1.43cups(165 g)
Whole milk: 0.7cup(150 g)- room temperature
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Butter: 0.3cup(70 g)- room temperature
Brown sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)- demerara
Liquid sourdough starter: 1tbsp(20 g)- (refreshed at least 2-3 hours ago)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.32tsp(1 g)
Cinnamon powder: 0.8tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 0.7tsp(4 g)
Butter: 1cup(225 g)- room temperature
Brown sugar: 1cup(225 g)- demerara
Cinnamon powder: 1 ⅔tsp(10 g)
Heavy cream: ¼cup(60 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 1 h 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + resting and rising times (about 16-17 h in total)

instructions:
All-famous cinnamon rolls become even more irresistible thanks to the recipe for cinnamon rolls with liquid sordough starter, prepared for us by chef Stefano Ferraro! The version with liquid sordough starter , compared to the one with brewer's yeast alone, undoubtedly requires more patience, as the dough must slowly and gradually leaven, but it will be worth the extra effort: not only will your cinnamon rolls have a unique aroma and texture, they will also be more digestible and preservable. The brown sugar, butter and cinnamon filling stays true to tradition and its irresistible flavor is further enhanced by a delicious glaze, made using the same ingredients and cream. Fantastic for breakfast or brunch, cinnamon rolls with liquid sordough starter are perfect for all the family!
To make cinnamon rolls with liquid sordough starter, place the water , milk and brown sugar in a planetary mixer bowl .
Add the cinnamon , switch on the planetary mixer and stir all the ingredients together, before adding the liquid sordough starter and the brewer's yeast .
Add the flours and mix at a medium speed once more. Lastly, add the salt and mix to obtain a homogeneous dough . Leave to rest in the bowl for 30 minutes, without covering it.
Once the time is up, add half of the softened butter , then the other half and continue to blend with the planetary mixer at a medium and then at a fast speed. Once the butter is thoroughly incorporated , leave the mixture to rest for an hour, at room temperature.
After an hour, place the dough on a worktop, slap and fold it to reinforce it and make it more compact . When the dough becomes nicely smooth and taut , place it in a bowl greased with some oil, cover with plastic wrap and leave to leaven in the refrigerator for around 10-12 hours .
Prepare the filling just before the dough fully leavens: place the softened butter and demerara sugar in a bowl, add the cinnamon and stir with a spatula to thoroughly incorporate the ingredients .
Now take the dough and start opening it out with your hands , then sprinkle with a little flour and roll it out with a rolling pin to form a 13x15 inch rectangle .
Spread two thirds of the filling over the entire surface of the rectangle , then tightly roll it along the longer side . Wrap the roll in the parchment paper and leave to firm up in the refrigerator on a tray, for an hour.
Once this time is up, cut the roll into 12 pieces of equal width . Place the rolls on a tray lined with parchment paper and leave to rise at room temperature for 2 hours. Once leavened , bake the cinnamon rolls in a ventilated oven at 400?F for 20 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the glaze: place the remaining filling in a saucepan , add the cream and bring to the boil, stirring thoroughly all the while to make sure the sugar dissolves .
When the cinnamon rolls are ready, remove them from the oven and leave them to cool , then brush abundant glaze over them . Your cinnamon rolls are ready to be enjoyed !
Cinnamon rolls can be stored at room temperature for up to 2 days.
You can freeze them after baking and thoroughly cooling, better without glaze.
Alternatively they can be frozen before baking, fully leavened: just be sure they return to room temperature before proceeding with the recipe.
Liquid sordough starter combined with brewer's yeast encourages leavening in all conditions, even without a leavening chamber.
Liquid sordough starter should be refreshed at least 2-3 hours before use and left at room temperature to ferment.
Reinforced bread flour is a type of flour that is particularly rich in proteins: as an alternative you could use manitoba bread flour.
If you want to replace liquid sordough starter with solid brewer's yeast, use the same amount and if necessary, just add a spoon of water to the mixture.

