name:
Roasted pumpkin
ingredients:
Mantuan pumpkin: 3.33lbs(1.5 kg)
Almond flakes: ⅓cup(20 g)
Pumpkin seeds: ⅓cup(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(40 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Smoked paprika: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(100 g)
Sage: a few- leaves
Parsley: 1sprig

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Are you craving a delicious pumpkin side dish that is easy to make? We have the perfect idea for you! Cut a sweet and delicate pumpkin into slices, sprinkle with almonds and pumpkin seeds, add a dash of paprika for a little character and lastly, drizzle with some oil, sage and parsley dressing. It is one of the best-loved side dishes of our staff, thanks to its simplicity. There's no hiding our passion for lasagna with pumpkin and other preparations containing this precious cold season vegetable. If you have any meat or fish and don't know what to serve it with, or you are simply looking for a recipe with pumpkin that will be very much appreciated at the table, our idea of the day will win you over: roasted pumpkin . Enjoy your side dish everyone!
Looking for more appetizing side dishes? Check out these recipes:
To prepare roasted pumpkin , wash the vegetable, as you will bake it in its skin. Remove the seeds using a spoon . Now cut it into 8 slices (cut the pumpkin piece in two to make this task easier, and continue to obtain slices that are the same size) . Use part of the oil to grease the baking tray
and arrange the pumpkin slices on it , then drizzle with the remaining oil and turn them over to grease them evenly all over. Remove the rosemary needles and finely chop them using a knife .
Season the pumpkin with a pinch of salt and dash of pepper, then add the finely chopped rosemary , the paprika and finally, the pumpkin seeds and almond shards .
Now simply place in a static oven preheated to 360°F for 40-45 minutes . In the meantime you can prepare the flavored oil. Finely chop some sage leaves and do the same with the sprig of parsley .
Place in a bowl and add the oil, stir thoroughly . When the pumpkin is baked, drizzle the oil over it . Your inviting roasted pumpkin is ready to be enjoyed, buon appetito !
You can store roasted pumpkin for one day in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer other aromatic herbs, feel free to use them: these ones are perfect because they evoke forest and autumnal flavors!

