name:
Risotto all'amatriciana
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ⅔cup(320 g)
Guanciale: 5oz(150 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 14oz(400 g)- un-drained
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 1cup(80 g)- freshly grated
Dry white wine: 3tbsp(50 g)
Vegetable broth: 2quarts(2 l)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Seafood carbonara and cacio e pepe ravioli are just 2 variations of great classic dishes of Lazio. We’ve also discovered a different take on the much-loved pasta all’amatriciana recipe : a creamy risotto with rice taking the place of the traditional rigatoni or bucatini pasta. Risotto all’amatriciana is savory, flavorful, and satisfying. It’s an ideal first course for casual dinners with a few friends, or you could use it to surprise your other half with unmistakable amatriciana aromas in a new twist. We stick to the traditional recipe for our risotto base, but guanciale bacon is the star of the show rather than mushrooms, pumpkin, zucchini, or sausage – naturally accompanied by a sauce of peeled tomatoes. For the ultimate challenge, you could serve a duo of risotto dishes: this amatriciana version paired with a cacio e pepe version!
If you love risotto don't miss these recipes:
Discover more delicious Risotto recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the risotto all’amatriciana , prepare 2 quarts (2 l) of vegetable broth and keep it warm. Then remove the rind from the guanciale before slicing and cutting into ¼-inch (0.5-cm) strips . Brown the guanciale in a hot pan without adding fat , stirring occasionally.
As soon as the guanciale is crispy, add the white wine and simmer until the alcohol evaporates off . Take the peeled tomatoes (with all their juice) and chop or crush them with a fork before adding them to the guanciale .
Cook the sauce over medium-low heat with the lid on the pan for about 10 minutes , then add salt and pepper to taste. Toward the end of the 10 minutes, toast the rice in a separate pan for a few minutes , stirring frequently. Add it to the sauce .
Stir to mix the rice into the sauce and start to add the hot vegetable broth . Keep adding a ladleful of broth at a time until the risotto is cooked. This will take about 20 minutes. The final consistency should be creamy , and the risotto should roll like a wave if you shake the pan.
Turn off the heat before adding the grated Pecorino cheese . Stir and allow to rest for a few minutes before serving your risotto all’amatriciana piping hot. Add a sprinkle of black pepper and more grated Pecorino cheese to taste .
You can store the risotto all’amatriciana in the fridge for 1-2 days.
Not suitable for freezing.
If there is any risotto all’amatriciana left over, you can use it to make delicious supplì (fried breaded risotto balls)!

