name:
Cappuccino and chocolate crumble
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(490 g)
Eggs: 3(170 g)- medium
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp(8 g)
Butter: ¾cup(200 g)- cold
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ¾cup(200 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(200 g)
Whole milk: 3tbsp(50 g)
Coffee: 1tbsp(15 g)
Powdered sugar: ⅔cup(75 g)
Dark chocolate: ¼cup(50 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average

instructions:
This crumb cake is a tasty treat made with a shortcrust pastry base that isn’t rolled out, but crumbled and spread over the dish, giving this dessert its name. A wide arrange of delicious fillings to suit all tastes can be sandwiched between the base and the crumbly top layer. We’ve already tempted you with Nutella and the one with a sweet and creamy apple filling, and today we aim to surprise you even more. Cappuccino and chocolate crumble is an even more irresistible variation on the theme: Creamed ricotta and mascarpone mixed with coffee and chunks of dark chocolate come together to create a rich and delicious dessert, perfect as a snack but also as a special treat!
To prepare the cappuccino and chocolate crumble , brew up some espresso coffee in your Italian moka pot and let it cool. Then cut the cold butter into pieces and place it in a bowl. Add the sugar , eggs , sifted flour ,
and baking powder (also sifted) . Knead quickly with your fingertips to obtain a crumbly mixture .
Add just over half the mixture to a buttered, floured 9-inch (24 cm) springform cake pan.  Save the rest for later. Spread the mixture over the entire surface, right up to the edges . Now make the creamy filling. Add the ricotta and mascarpone to a bowl,
then add the powdered sugar and whisk until the mixture is smooth . Pour the cold coffee into the milk and mix.
Add the milky coffee to the ricotta and mascarpone mixture , whisking to combine . The resulting mixture should be smooth and uniform .
Lastly, add the coarsely chopped chocolate and mix with a spatula . The cream is ready; pour it into the mold and level with a spatula .
Cover with the remaining crumble mixture , spreading it over the entire surface to cover the creamy filling and extend slightly up the edges . Bake in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (175°C) for approximately 50 minutes. When it is golden brown, take it out of the oven and let it cool completely.
At this point, remove the pan , transfer to a serving dish, sprinkle with powdered sugar , and serve .
The cappuccino and chocolate crumble can be kept in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
Not suitable for freezing. If you like, you can freeze the shortcrust pastry by itself, then defrost it and crumble it as described in the recipe.
You can flavor the pastry with coffee powder.

