name:
Ricotta and spinach ravioli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: ½cup(250 g)
Eggs: 124(124 g)- (about 2 eggs and 1 yolk)
Semolina: to taste- for dusting
Spinach: ½cup(250 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 0.56cup(125 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.8tbsp(50 g)- to be grated
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes rest for the fresh pasta

instructions:
Fresh pasta is so good! Fresh pasta with egg prepared by the skilled hands of grandmothers and aunts are a real delicacy. But by now we're all getting our hands in the dough because, let's face it, it's a delicious pastime! We're sure you'll appreciate the ricotta and spinach ravioli . One of the most classic preparations of filled pasta, with a filling that reveals a fresh and delicate flavor. Pure poetry for the palate, the fusion of love with these two ingredients is an idyll that has lasted for years, perhaps one of the most successful marriages in the history of cooking. What about you? If you're wondering how to delight your guests this Sunday you've come to the right place! Prepare these fabulous ricotta and spinach ravioli with us!
You may also like:
To prepare ricotta and spinach ravioli , start by preparing fresh egg pasta. Take the flour (you can leave about 3T (50 g) aside to add when needed) and pour it into a bowl together with the beaten eggs . Knead the ingredients with your hands to make a homogeneous mixture . If the dough is not very elastic, add lukewarm water to make your dough softer so that it can be rolled with a rolling pin or with the pasta-maker machine. If, on the contrary, it is sticky, add the flour you set aside by hand.
Transfer the dough to a work surface and knead it vigorously, when you have obtained a smooth and homogeneous dough, form a ball that you wrap with cling film: let the dough rest for 30 minutes away from light and drafts that could dry it. While the pasta is resting, make the filling: take a non-stick pan with a wide bottom that you put the rinsed spinach in , covering it with a lid to make it wilt . Let it cook until soft, it'll take a couple of minutes or so.
When it is well softened , drain it to remove excess liquid : keep it aside. Take a large bowl and pour the ricotta and Parmesan cheese into it .
Flavor with nutmeg and, using a hand whip, mix the ingredients to combine them . Salt and pepper to taste. When they are combined, chop the spinach in a blender and add to the cream with ricotta . Mix the ingredients well to obtain a homogeneous mixture.
Transfer the mixture into a sac-a-poche and keep it aside. At this point, your pasta will have rested. Take it and split it in two. Leave one half wrapped in cling film so it does not dry out. After having lightly floured it with reground semolina (which will not be absorbed into the dough), pull the other half through the machine by passing it between the rollers from the widest to the penultimate narrowest thickness: you will need a rectangular sheet about 0.04 inches (1 mm) thick . Repeat the operation with the other half. Roll out the two pasta rectangles on a lightly floured work surface (remember to use semolina flour) and make small piles of filling with a pastry bag .
Place them at a distance of about an inch or so (3 cm) from each other . Spray water on the edges of the sheet (if you prefer you can also brush the edges with a kitchen brush) so that when you lay the second sheet on top of it , it will attach more easily. Make sure to get the air out between one ravioli and another, pressing your fingers down around the filling, so that the ravioli do not open during cooking letting the filling escape.
When laying the second sheet, match the edges with the first . Then, with a notched pastry cutter, cut the ravioli out, about 1 1/2 in square (4x4 cm) : you will obtain about 24 ravioli that you put on a tray lightly floured with ground semolina . Your ricotta and spinach ravioli are now ready! You can then cook them in boiling water and season them as you like, for example with butter and sage!
You can keep ricotta and spinach ravioli in the freezer for a maximum of 1 month. To freeze them proceed as follows: place the tray in the freezer for a couple of hours until the ravioli are hardened. Then put them in freezer bags. To use them, cook them still frozen in plenty of salted water.
Try flavoring the stuffing with whatever your imagination suggests! Here are some ideas: ham, herbs or pecorino cheese... what will you use?
And to season them? The classic of the classics to enhance the delicate flavor of this recipe: butter and sage!

