name:
Sautéed mushrooms
ingredients:
Mushrooms: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: to taste
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Sautéed mushrooms is a side dish that’s really easy to prepare: mushrooms, the kings of late summer and autumn! This dish doesn’t need practically anything else. All it takes is a little butter and parsley to put together a dish that is delectable even if eaten on its own. Sautéed mushrooms are the perfect accompaniment for hearty meat dishes, they are excellent with polenta or on bread, and as a topping for delicious bruschetta varieties that can be made with gluten-free nut breads if you like! Whatever you decide, this sautéed mushroom recipe is the best way to bring out the flavor of the mushrooms and perfectly illustrates why this tried and tested method is used to prepare so many other Italian dishes, particularly in Venice. In fall, take advantage of the season to try tasty stuffed champignon mushrooms!
When preparing the sautéed mushrooms , the first step is to clean the different types of mushrooms and fungi. We’ve used porcini mushrooms, champignon mushrooms, oyster mushrooms, and chanterelles in this recipe. Start with the porcini mushrooms: Remove the soil with a brush or dry cloth . Cut off the earthy part of the stalk with a small knife . Clean the other mushrooms in the same way. If they are very dirty, you can run them quickly under the faucet, but be careful because mushrooms absorb a lot of water.
Slice the porcini mushrooms , champignons , and chanterelles thinly .
Slice the oyster mushrooms as well . Heat the butter with the oil and a halved garlic clove in a non-stick frying pan.
Season the mushrooms. Add the firmest porcini mushrooms to the pan, sauté over high heat for a couple of minutes and then add the other mushrooms . Cook for a couple more minutes over high heat, stirring gently all the time to prevent the mushrooms from coming apart as they cook. Season with salt
and pepper . Add the finely chopped parsley . Remove from the heat and serve the sautéed mushrooms hot or cold, depending on your menu .
Keep the sautéed mushrooms in a sealed container in the refrigerator for 2-3 days at most.
Not suitable for freezing.
Contrary to what you might think, mushrooms need cooking quickly, otherwise they might cook down to a mush. If you want them to keep their shape, remember to cook them over high heat. If you want to save the sautéed mushrooms for other dishes, par-cook them without adding parsley and salt, then finish cooking when you are ready to serve them. If you use the stalks, remember to clean and boil them for 15 minutes to remove any toxins.
Please see the Ministry of Health guidelines on picking, processing, and storing mushrooms.

