name:
Pumpkin Risotto
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Delica pumpkin: 1.7lbs(750 g)
Yellow onions: 3.5oz(100 g)
Vegetable broth: 8 ½cups(1.5 l)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.8oz(80 g)
White wine: 4.1tbsp(60 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the preparation time for vegetable broth

instructions:
To prepare pumpkin risotto, first make the vegetable broth and keep it warm. Then proceed to clean the pumpkin: remove the skin and the seeds . Then cut it into slices and dice it . You will get about 21 oz in total.
Finely chop the onion and place it in a large pan where you have heated the oil . Let the onion sauté over very low heat for about 10 minutes, until it becomes so tender it melts; help it release its liquids by adding a pinch of salt .
Then add the pumpkin and roast it for a few minutes, stirring to prevent it from sticking. Begin adding a ladle of hot broth , and add more little by little until the pumpkin is cooked (about 20 minutes): it should be very tender and creamy.
Meanwhile, heat a pan and pour the rice inside . We use the dry method because toasting the rice is essential for the grains to hold their shape during cooking. Toast the rice over high heat, stirring often until you can no longer hold it in your hand for more than a few seconds. It will take 2-3 minutes. Then deglaze with the white wine and stir immediately to prevent sticking . As soon as the wine has completely evaporated, pour the rice into the pan with the pumpkin .
Mix well and cook the rice, adding more hot broth as needed . It will take about 15-20 minutes, depending on the rice used. When it has reached the right consistency, turn off the heat. Add the butter and the grated Parmesan cheese .
Add some black pepper , adjust the salt and cream the risotto well by stirring it. If you prefer a more liquid risotto, you can add another ladle of broth . Wait 1-2 minutes, plate the risotto, and serve it .
Store the pumpkin risotto, closed in an airtight container and placed in the refrigerator, for up to 1-2 days.
If you want to make your risotto more aromatic, flavor the sauté with aromatic herbs: thyme, rosemary, or marjoram… or why not use them all together! Instead of onion, considering the sweet tendency of the pumpkin, strengthen it with shallots or garlic. For an extra creamy result, try replacing Parmesan with ricotta, mascarpone, or taleggio or even robiola or squacquerone!

