name:
Sausage and provolone pork loin rolls
ingredients:
Pork loin: 1.5lbs(650 g)- (single piece or thin slices)
Sausage: 10oz(290 g)
Provolone cheese: 6oz(175 g)
Marsala wine: 0.3cup(70 g)
Porcini mushrooms: 1oz(30 g)- dried
Whipping cream: 1.5oz(40 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Butter: 1 ½tsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Sage: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Water: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + time to rehydrate the dried mushrooms

instructions:
Savory roulades have to be up there with the tastiest of main courses. As well as all the goodness of veal, pork, chicken, or turkey, they also boast a rich, melting filling and delicious combinations of ingredients like the one we’ve chosen for this recipe: sausage and provolone pork loin rolls . Thin slices of pork loin wrapped around a very simple filling made with sausage and provolone cheese make for a succulent, appetizing dish with a captivating flavor, but the real trump card with these rolls is the sauce! Mushrooms and cream create a winning combination, with an aromatic note courtesy of the Marsala wine. Don’t worry if you like your rolls in a thicker sauce, though, as you can vary them to your liking by stewing them or using other seasonal vegetables to create a different main course every time!
To prepare the sausage and provolone pork loin rolls , start by rinsing the porcini mushrooms thoroughly, before soaking them for 10-15 minutes in warm water so that they rehydrate. Cut 6 slices from the loin and tenderize them with a meat tenderizer (2-3).
Keeping the skin on the sausage, cut it into 6 pieces of around 4 inches (9 cm) in length, or the same width as the meat slices . Next, cut 12 pretty thin slices of provolone . Season the slices with salt and pepper, lay the sausage on top
and cover with a couple of slices of provolone . Roll the whole thing up and fasten with kitchen string .
Dredge the rolls in the flour and set aside for a moment. Pour a drizzle of oil and the butter into a frying pan . Allow it to melt, then add the herbs and spices: the sage, the rosemary, and the whole clove of garlic, peeled .
Place the rolls in the pan and brown them , turning often, over medium heat until the meat is well sealed on all sides. Season with salt and pepper to taste, then drain the mushrooms well and add to the rolls .
Add the Marsala wine , and as soon as the alcohol has evaporated (this will only take a few moments) , pour in the light cream .
Cover with a lid and cook over low heat for around 20 minutes. Add a little water at a time , if necessary, to prevent the cooking liquid from becoming too thick. Once cooked, everything should be creamy. Serve your sausage and provolone pork loin rolls piping hot .
You can keep your sausage and provolone pork loin rolls in the refrigerator for a day or two.
Not recommended for freezing.
You could use scamorza or fontina cheese as an alternative to provolone.

