name:
Butter and egg-free chocolate cake
ingredients:
Water: 1 ½cup(335 g)- (still)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(225 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Dark chocolate: ½cup(80 g)
Vegetable oil: ¾cup(90 g)
Baking powder: 1.1tsp(16 g)
Orange peel: 1

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Good and light desserts exist. For chocolate lovers who do not want a guilty conscience in savoring a good dessert, we have the perfect recipe: the butter and egg-free chocolate cake , the even tastier version of chocolate cake! No butter, no eggs, no milk... is that too much "without"? We are sure it isn’t! Let yourself be tempted by this soft and delicious dessert, the butter and egg-free chocolate cake will win you over with your first bite! Once it has been baked and left to cool, you can simply eat it or fill it with a layer of your favorite jam. It is so easy and quick to prepare that it will become one of your go-to desserts.
To prepare the butter and egg-free chocolate cake , first start by finely chopping the chocolate . Place the chocolate flakes in a bowl and set them aside. Now take a high-sided pan and pour in the water. Let it warm up over low heat. When the water starts to heat up, add the sugar and, with a hand whisk, stir the sugar well to make it melt .
Once the sugar has melted, continue stirring and add the previously prepared chocolate flakes . Keep stirring the ingredients vigorously with a hand whisk to prevent lumps from forming . The heat will help dissolve the ingredients in the water. When the ingredients are fully blended and free of lumps, pour the mixture into a high-sided bowl or blender cup .
Use an hand blender and finely blend all the ingredients . Let cool to room temperature. Then take a bowl and sift the flour and yeast .
When the chocolate and sugar mixture has cooled, pour it into the bowl with the flour in three phases mixing it vigorously with a hand whisk to avoid the formation of lumps and to obtain a homogeneous mixture. Drizzle the oil, and once mixed, grate the orange rind .
Continue to mix the ingredients, then butter and line a 9 inch (22 cm) diameter cake pan with baking paper and pour in the mixture . Bake in a static oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for 50 minutes . Once baked, remove the cake and let cool completely on a rack. You can dust it with powdered sugar before serving!
The butter and egg-free chocolate cake can be stored for 3-4 days under a glass cloche at room temperature. You can freeze it when it is cooked.
If you want to give a stronger aroma and flavor to your butter and egg - free chocolate cake, you can flavor the mixture with cinnamon or ginger powder, depending on your preference.
Would you like to enrich this light cake with a personal and original touch? Add a layer of your favorite jam. It will become a rich breakfast or a perfect snack for your kids !

