name:
Tagliatelle with porcini mushrooms
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 7oz(200 g)
Eggs: 4.25oz(120 g)
Semolina: to taste- for dusting
Porcini mushrooms: 1lb(500 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(35 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1sprig
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + resting time for the fresh pasta

instructions:
To prepare the tagliatelle with porcini mushrooms , start with fresh pasta: on a pastry board (or in a bowl) pour the flour, create the classic crater shape and pour the previously beaten eggs into the center . It's very important to respect the recommended amount of eggs to obtain a consistent dough, neither too sticky nor too dry. Stir with a fork starting from the center, pushing the flour in by hand . When the dough is more compact, work with your hands for about 10 minutes , kneading vigorously.
Give the dough a ball shape , wrap it with transparent wrap and let it rest at room temperature , in a cool place away from heat sources, for about 30 minutes.
In the meantime, clean the porcini mushrooms: remove the dirt, scraping the stalk with a small knife , then if they are very dirty you can clean them with a slightly dampened cloth. A solution not very recommended is to quickly pass them under cold running water and then dry them carefully with a cloth . If you should opt for this solution, do it very quickly so that the mushrooms do not absorb too much water and therefore lose their taste and texture. Then cut them into slices .
In a large frying pan, put in the butter and melt it over very low heat; when it has almost completely melted, pour in the oil , leave to heat slightly over low heat and then pour in the porcini mushrooms (11-12) and a whole clove of garlic, cleaned or chopped if you prefer (optional).
Season with salt and pepper to taste, then let the mushrooms cook for about 10 minutes . When finished cooking you can remove the garlic clove if you have added it . Once prepared, keep them warm. Then mince the parsley very finely and set it aside.
Once the necessary rest time has passed, take the dough and divide it into pieces ; lightly flour the piece to put through the machine to roll the dough and keep the remaining dough on the side covered with plastic wrap. Insert the first piece into the machine , passing from the largest to the penultimate thickness in order to obtain the right thickness of the sheet .
When you get to the last step of the machine, pass the dough strip again , in fact you will need two steps at this thickness to get the dough through well . Lightly flour the work surface with some semolina flour and roll out the first sheet; proceed in the same way with another piece of dough, until the various sheets are finished, sprinkle the sheets with semolina and let them dry for 5 minutes per side. Fold one of the shorter sides of each sheet of pasta inwards (it will be used to create a sort of "tongue" to pull up the tagliatelle more easily, once ready) and then roll the pasta on itself .
With a sharp, lightly floured knife (to keep the blade from sticking to the fresh pasta), start making the tagliatelle, cutting at a thickness of about 1/4'' (6.5-7 mm) . Then lift each roll to make your nests of noodles, to be placed as you go on a part of the work surface lightly floured with semolina flour or on a tray. Bring the water to a boil and salt to taste; cook the tagliatelle for 3-4 minutes .
Then drain them directly into the seasoning while preserving the cooking water. Set the heat to low under the pan with the seasoning and mix the ingredients to combine them. Add the finely chopped parsley and, if needed, add a ladle of pasta cooking water to prevent the tagliatelle from being too dry. Then serve the tagliatelle with porcini mushrooms as soon as they are ready !
Eat the tagliatelle immediately or store them in the refrigerator for up to 1 day. Alternatively, you can freeze them raw. For freezing, place the nests of pasta well spaced on a tray and then put them in the freezer to harden for a couple of hours. When they are well hardened, put them in freezer bags, better if already portioned, and put them back in the freezer. When using them, boil them directly from frozen in boiling water and proceed according to the recipe.
Instead of parsley, you can add an extra note of freshness and character with fresh mint!
And to make the perfect tagliatelle: if the dough is too dry during processing, because the flour has absorbed too much liquid, wet it with a little water at room temperature. If on the contrary it is very sticky, add a little flour without overdoing it. The advice is always to use fresh eggs of the indicated weight and a high-quality flour.

