name:
Chocolate lava cake
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 5.25oz(150 g)
Butter: 0.3cup(80 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 1tbsp(10 g)
Eggs: 2- medium
Egg yolks: 1
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(90 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Butter: to taste
Brown sugar: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note Cooking time can vary between 13 and 15 minutes

instructions:
Chocolate lava cake is a sweet single-portion temptation, easy and quick to prepare. The perfect dessert to conquer your guests every other day of the year: a soft shell to sink your spoon in to discover the soft and creamy center. A true temptation, a pleasure for the palate that puts you in a good mood even on the grayest days! The chocolate lava cake is excellent at the end of a meal, to be prepared in advance and then baked in the oven at the time of serving to ensure a perfect dark chocolate center. A real explosion of flavor that will capture the hearts of the lucky ones who taste it: after all, you know, the best way to a person's heart is undoubtedly through their stomach!
To make the chocolate lava cake , first chop the chocolate coarsely with a knife, then put it in a bain-marie, or place the bain-marie on a pan filled with water . Mix with a rubber spatula to help melt it and when the chocolate has melted, add the butter , stir until it has completely combined. Once ready, turn off the burner and keep the bain-marie aside with the melted chocolate, perhaps placing it on a clean cloth. Meanwhile, pour the eggs and yolk into a bowl, add the powdered sugar and the seeds from the vanilla pod;
Beat with a mixer until it is clear and frothy, then pour in the melted chocolate and continue to combine the thoroughly .
At this point, add the dry ingredients to the egg mixture: sift the flour and the cocoa powder then mix with a spatula to combine the ingredients .
The mixture is ready, take some 3" (8 cm) wide and 1 1/2" (4 cm) deep round aluminum molds, butter the bottoms and the sides and then sprinkle with brown sugar (alternatively you can use cocoa powder or powdered sugar). Pour the chocolate mixture into the molds 2/3 full , then bake in a static oven preheated to 350° F (180° C) for 13-15 minutes. When the time is up, take your cakes out right away .
Turn them upside down on a serving plate still hot taking care not to burn yourself , finish by sprinkling the chocolate lava cake with powdered sugar and serve immediately !
We recommend eating the cakes immediately. You can keep the raw chocolate lava cake portions in the refrigerator for 1 day covered with plastic wrap or freeze them for a long time; the frozen cake portions are a great asset when guests suddenly come to dinner! Just put them in the oven still frozen , and they will only require a few more minutes to cook (3-4 minutes more).
The secret to the success of these cakes lies in the baking: since these are just a few fundamental minutes on which the "melting center" effect depends, we suggest you try baking a test cake, to test the heat of the oven and make sure it is successful.

