name:
Gnocchi alla Romana
ingredients:
Semolina: 2cups(250 g)
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- grated
Pecorino cheese: 1.5oz(40 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(7 g)
Nutmeg: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 5
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time for the semolina

instructions:
To prepare gnocchi alla romana , place the milk in a pan over the heat, and add a knob of butter (about 2 tbsp (30 g) of the total amount), salt , and a pinch of nutmeg ; as soon as the milk starts to boil, whisk in the semolina , stirring vigorously to prevent the formation of lumps.
Cook the mixture over low heat for a few minutes, until it has thickened ; remove the pan from the heat and add the two yolks to the mixture, stirring this time with a wooden spoon .
Add the Parmesan cheese and stir again . Now pour half of the dough, still hot, on a sheet of baking paper .
and using your hands, give it a cylindrical shape . To avoid scalding your hands, first put them under cold running water. Once you have obtained a uniform cylinder, wrap it in baking paper . Do the same with the other half of the dough you had put aside. Place the two rolls in the refrigerator for about twenty minutes.
Once cooled, you will have a compact dough that you can easily slice with a knife . To make cutting easier, we recommend wetting the blade with water. Once you have obtained about 40 pieces, place them on a previously buttered baking tray and sprinkle them with melted, not hot, butter (about 5 tbsp) (70 g) .
Sprinkle the surface with Pecorino Romano and bake in a static preheated oven at 400° F (200° C) for 20-25 minutes (if you use a convection oven, 350° F, 180° C, for 15 minutes). Now turn on the grill and gratin the top for 4-5 minutes. Once ready serve your gnocchi alla romana hot !
Store the gnocchi in a sealed container in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. You can also freeze the gnocchi , sprinkled with cheese and butter flakes instead of melted butter and place them directly in the oven without thawing them.
To enhance the flavor, add a few sage leaves between the gnocchi!
Despite the obvious reference to their origin in their name, Gnocchi alla romana , it seems there are different opinions regarding the origin of this dish, which to many would seem to be from Piedmont , especially due to the abundant use of butter.

