name:
Veal scalloppini with mushrooms
ingredients:
Veal: 14oz(400 g)- (top round)
Champignon mushrooms: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: ⅓cup(40 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Rosemary: 1sprig- ground

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Veal scallopini is easy to make and an extremely tasty second course! In this recipe we propose a variation of the classic lemon scallopini, namely veal scallopini with mushrooms ! An appetizing and tasty meat course, complete with the aromas of the forest floor... a classic that provides a refined touch to your menu in a simple way and, above all, in a short amount of time. For this recipe we have chosen the fleshy and very versatile Champignon mushrooms, a perfect accompaniment to the veal slices which, as the traditional recipe requires, are skillfully browned in the pan to create that appetizing golden crust that makes this dish so irresistible. Veal scallopini with mushrooms will be the winning card of your most sumptuous menus, and don't forget to accompany it with a good bottle of wine!
To make the scallopini with mushrooms , cut the top round veal into slices , then pound them with a meat tenderizer to make them thinner , flour the veal slices on both sides and then shake them to remove the excess flour.
Now clean the mushrooms : using a sharp knife with a smooth blade begin by removing the earthy part on the stalk, scraping it gently until all traces of soil are removed . If the mushroom is clean enough, remove the scant earth residue with a brush or a cotton cloth, do not wash them with water to avoid ruining them. Slice the mushrooms and set them aside.
Now start cooking the meat: in a pan melt half the butter (1.75 tbsp or 25 gr) adding the olive oil ; once melted, add the floured veal slices, salt and pepper and brown them 3 minutes per side or until the crust forms.
Once they are well browned, leave them to cool on a plate and finish preparing the mushrooms: in the same pan you cooked the meat in, melt the other half of the butter, season with the whole clove of garlic and the chopped rosemary , add the sliced mushrooms and sauté over medium heat for two minutes, then salt and pepper to taste.
At this point, add the browned slices of veal and set aside and flavor with thyme leaves , let it absorb the flavor over low heat for a minute, adding a ladle of water if necessary, and serve the scallopini with mushrooms hot !
We recommend keeping the scallopini with mushrooms in the refrigerator, closed in an airtight container, for a couple of days at most. You can freeze them if you used fresh ingredients.
If you want a creamier sauce , you can blend half of the cooked mushrooms and then mix them with the others to make a delicious creamy gravy in which to dip your bread !

