name:
Saffron risotto
ingredients:
Saffron threads: 1tsp
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(320 g)
Butter: ½cup(125 g)
Onions: 1
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1cup(80 g)- to be grated
White wine: ¼cup(40 g)
Water: to taste
Vegetable broth: 1quart(1 l)
Fine salt: to taste
Saffron threads: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 1 night to infuse the saffron threads

instructions:
To make the saffron risotto , first put the threads in a small glass, pour just enough water to cover them completely, stir and leave to infuse overnight, this way they will release all their color. Next, prepare the vegetable stock. For this recipe you will need one quart. Peel and finely chop the onion so it will dissolve while being cooked and not be detected when tasting the risotto.
In a large saucepan pour 1/4 cup (50 g) of butter from the total amount for this recipe , melt it over low heat, then add the chopped onion and let it stew for 10-15 minutes, adding some broth to avoid drying the sauté : the onion must be transparent and soft.
Once the onion is stewed, pour in the rice and toast it for 3-4 minutes, so that the grains will seal and keep cooking well. Sweat with the white wine and let it evaporate completely. Now proceed with cooking for about 18-20 minutes, adding the stock one ladle at a time, as needed, as it is absorbed by the rice : the grains must always be covered by stock.
Five minutes before the cooking time is up , pour the water with the previously infused saffron threads , stir to flavor and dye the risotto to a nice golden color. Once cooked, turn off the heat, add salt , stir in the grated cheese and the remaining 1/3 cup (75 g) of butter .
Stir and cover with a lid . Let it rest for a couple of minutes. At this point, the saffron risotto is ready , garnish the dish with a few more saffron threads, and serve the risotto hot .
Keep the saffron risotto, closed in an airtight container in the fridge, for up to two days. Freezing is not recommended.
The wine you add to the rice must be at room temperature, while the broth must always be boiling when added so as not to slow down the cooking process . Saffron risotto lends itself to be combined with many dishes: in addition to the typical combination with traditional Milanese ossobuco (cross-cut veal shanks), it is also excellent with mushrooms, generally porcini mushrooms, sausages , and scampi and other seafood as well .
Saffron is the name given to the three saffron threads (more correctly called stigmas ) of a delicate wisteria-colored crocus flower, meticulously collected by hand. This explains why it is a rather expensive product, also called "red gold". The subtle threads with their pungent perfume and characteristic carmine color in infusion will release with all their intensity a unique flavor and color, a little magic that has always fascinated the people who have used this precious spice, so much that it is considered the "king of spices".

