name:
Nutella crepes
ingredients:
Eggs: 3- medium
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Butter: to taste
Nutella: ¾cup(240 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes of batter resting in the fridge

instructions:
Raise your hand if you haven't tried it at least once in your life! Her Majesty, the Nutella crepe, a guilty pleasure that's really hard to resist as a snack or even as a midnight treat! We'll show you how to prepare soft crepes for all your friends (and keep a few aside for yourself of course!) with a few simple tips. The unmistakable aroma of the thin and delicious pancake will spread through the kitchen and will be enriched with the generous filling of Nutella: in short, it will be an irresistible temptation at any time of the day! Discover other basic batters to prepare delicious crepes:
With this batter you can also make delicious savory crepes, like ham crepes !
To prepare the sweet and savory crepes, start by gently melting the butter in a saucepan or in the microwave. Let it cool and in the meantime, break the eggs into a high-sided bowl. Mix with a whisk and add the milk . Continue mixing until you get a smooth mixture . Add now the warm butter and mix again.
Place a sieve over the bowl and sift the flour into the bowl (for convenience you can also add it in two stages and mix to avoid the formation of lumps). Then, with the whisk, mix vigorously to absorb the flour . Continue mixing until you get a smooth, velvety, and lump-free mixture. At this point, cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rest for at least 30 minutes in the refrigerator.
After the resting time, stir the batter to revive it, then heat a 9-inch crepe maker (or an alternative non-stick pan with the same base) and grease it with a knob of butter . Once at temperature, pour a ladle of batter sufficient to cover the surface of the pan : you can use the special crepe spreader or rotate the pan to distribute the batter evenly (be careful not to spread it all to the edges to avoid not having enough batter in the center to create a crepe with a uniform surface); it is advisable to perform these operations very quickly, as the batter will cook rapidly .
After about 1 minute over medium-low heat, you should notice a slight browning, and the edges will start to detach, so you can flip the first crepe with the help of a spatula . Cook the other side for about 1 minute, waiting for it to gain color. Once cooked, transfer it to a serving plate or cutting board. Repeat this operation until the batter is finished, greasing the crepe maker each time; you should obtain 8 crepes with a diameter of 9 inches: stack each crepe one on top of the other to keep them soft . Using a spoon, transfer about 2 tablespoons of Nutella to the center of each crepe, then use the back of the spoon to spread it over the entire surface .
Now fold the crepe in half to form a half-moon . Fold again in half to form a triangle . Transfer to a plate, dust with powdered sugar and serve.
If you have leftover batter, you can store it in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 12 hours.
You can store the stacked crepes covered with plastic wrap for a couple of days at most in the fridge. If there are leftover cooked crepes, you can let them cool, then stack them one on top of the other and freeze them, alternating each crepe with a sheet of parchment paper and wrapping everything in plastic wrap.
This way you can defrost and heat the number of crepes you need. We recommend filling the crepes only at the moment of serving.
To flavor these delicious crepes, you can add a pinch of cinnamon, the seeds from a vanilla bean, or a splash of rum or cognac to the batter. The extra touch? Serve these crepes with nuts like sliced almonds or toasted hazelnuts: success is guaranteed! For those who love unbeatable combinations, try raspberries, bananas, or coconut.

