name:
Potato crumble
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 9oz(250 g)- smoked
Rolled Pancetta: 3.5oz(100 g)- sliced
Eggs: 1- medium
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ¾cup(80 g)
Gluten free cornstarch: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
One of our favorite culinary pastimes is creating savory dishes using traditional dessert methods. We have transformed sweet treats such as muffins, pancakes, profiteroles, and cookies into tasty morsels to be enjoyed as appetizers with delectable and imaginative fillings that deliver every time! We came up with two tasty savory versions of torta sbrisolona (crumble cake), a Mantuan delicacy: one with ham and provola cheese and the other with ricotta and zucchini. Spurred on by the success of those recipes, we decided to try out a new flavorsome dough with a softer texture: potato crumble . This dish is served in slices, each harboring a delicious filling you can savor bite by bite!
To make the potato crumble, first cook the potatoes with their skins on. Starting with the water cold , boil them for 30-40 minutes from the time they start to boil or until they are soft when tested with a fork. Slice the smoked Mozzarella di bufala cheese , lay out the slices on a tray lined with paper towels, and then cover with another sheet of paper and press down gently to squeeze them dry . Let the slices rest like this for 20 minutes to ensure the mozzarella dries out properly.
Once the potatoes are cooked, mash them with a potato masher and collect the resulting purée in a large bowl. Allow to cool, add the cornstarch and half of the Parmigiano Reggiano DOP cheese ,
the salt , and the whole egg , then mix everything with your hands
to obtain a smooth mixture . Line an 8-inch (20 cm) diameter cake pan and add about four heaped tablespoons of the mixture to create an even base.
Press the dough down with your fingers to form a compact layer . Using your hands, sprinkle the coarsely chopped mozzarella slices and the rolled pancetta over the base,
then cover everything with the remainder of the mixture. Make sure it is properly stuck down to create a lid and then crumble the topmost layer with your fingers . Add a drizzle of oil and season with pepper .
Top with the rest of the Parmigiano Reggiano DOP cheese (19-20) and cook in an oven preheated to 350°F (180°C), on the middle shelf, for 25 minutes. After the 25 minutes is up, turn on the grill and broil for another 8 minutes. When cooked, the surface of the savory crumble will be golden brown. You can now take it out of the oven, let it cool , and serve it sliced.
The potato crumble will keep in the refrigerator for 2-3 days covered with plastic wrap. Not suitable for freezing.
You can substitute the same amount of potato starch for the corn starch.
You can add sautéed vegetables to the filling, but make sure they are dry so that they do not produce water when cooked.


