name:
Ribollita
ingredients:
Dried cannellini beans: 2cups(400 g)
Stale bread: 2.3cups(300 g)- Tuscan (wood-fired)
Verza (savoy cabbage): 10.5oz(300 g)- (to clean)
Italian kale (cavolo nero): 6cups(400 g)- (to clean)
Chard: 8.3cups(300 g)- (to clean)
Potatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Carrots: 0.44cup(100 g)
Celery: 1cup(100 g)
Onions: 1-
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: to taste- fresh
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste-
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 1 night of soaking for the cannellini beans and 2 hours of resting in the fridge

instructions:
To prepare ribollita, start by soaking the beans overnight in cold water . Then drain, rinse them, and place them in a large pot with plenty of unsalted cold water . Bring to a boil and cook for one hour. Meanwhile, prepare the aromas and vegetables for the soup: cut the celery into dice about 1/8 inch .
Do the same with the carrot, then peel and chop the onion and garlic .
Peel and cut the potatoes into chunks of about 3/4 inch . Now move on to the leafy greens: cut the savoy cabbage into strips of about 1/2 to 3/4 inch, after removing the central core . Also, cut the Swiss chard into small pieces .
Remove the woody base of the black cabbage head, then cut the rest into strips . If the stems are too tough, you can strip the leaf from the stem and discard it. Crush the canned tomatoes with a fork . When the beans are cooked, take about half of them and set them aside .

Blend the rest along with their cooking water using an immersion blender . In a very large pot, pour some olive oil and add the onion , celery, carrot, and garlic .
Season with thyme (pepolino) and sauté gently for about 10 minutes over low heat. Now add the potatoes and the leafy greens .
Salt , pepper, and mix well, stewing everything for a few minutes. At this point, pour in the crushed tomatoes and the bean broth , adding more water if needed to cover all the vegetables.
Bring to a boil and let cook over medium-low heat for 45 minutes . After this time , add the cooked beans you set aside .
Cut the stale Tuscan bread into slices and immerse them in the pot, pressing them well into the broth with the help of a ladle . When all the slices are well immersed, cover with a lid and let cool at room temperature, then place in the refrigerator for another 2 hours, or better yet, overnight.
After the cooling time, retrieve the soup , stir it, and put it back on the heat . Bring it to a boil, adjusting the thickness with additional water if needed. Serve and finish with a drizzle of raw olive oil .
Pepper , flavor with thyme , and serve your ribollita immediately !
The ribollita can be stored for 1-2 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container. It can be frozen if you have used all fresh non-defrosted ingredients, although the taste may suffer.
If desired, you can garnish the soup with raw chopped onion.
For a good result, we recommend using bread with a thick crust, so it won't become excessively mushy during cooking.
If you like spicy food, you can certainly add some fresh or dried chili pepper to your ribollita, but do so sparingly, so it doesn't overpower the taste of the other ingredients.
Don't have enough time and looking for a black cabbage recipe that's quicker to prepare? Try the Pasta with Black Kale !

