name:
Risotto al telefono
ingredients:
Vialone nano rice: 1 ¾cup(320 g)
Shallot: 1
Tomato purée: 1cup(200 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 4.25oz(120 g)- (for pizza)
Marjoram: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Vegetable broth: 6.3cups(1.5 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Risotto al telefono is a first-course dish that’s truly tasty, easy, and quick to prepare. It’s inspired by a typical dish from the cuisine of the Lazio region: supplì al telefono, fried breaded balls of rice and tomato sauce. What these two recipes have in common, besides the rice and tomato, is the cheese: As you pull the supplì apart, the melting cheese creates a string resembling a telephone cord, giving the dish its “al telefono” name. This recipe uses just a few simple ingredients to create a dish that will really win everyone over... a tomato risotto livened up with cubes of stringy mozzarella that will melt thanks to the heat from the rice. You won’t need to add butter or other fats to make this risotto rich; just measure out the broth well to get a creamy effect!
To make the risotto al telefono , first prepare the vegetable broth and keep warm. Next, chop the shallot . Drizzle some olive oil into a frying pan, add the shallot , and leave to soften. Add the rice to the pan and toast for a few minutes .
Then, add the tomato puree and stir to combine . Start to cook the risotto by adding broth
until the rice is covered . Add salt if necessary (taking into account how much salt is in the broth) and bring to a simmer, adding more broth as needed and stirring frequently. It will take around 18 minutes in total from when you began adding the broth to the rice. Cooking times may vary based on the kind of rice used; taste it frequently to see how it’s cooking. Next, cut the mozzarella into cubes and set aside.
As soon as the rice has finished cooking , remove from heat and add the mozzarella, a drizzle of oil , and the marjoram leaves .
Mix the risotto until the cheese is nicely melted and the dish is creamy . Serve and enjoy while still warm .
The risotto can be kept in the fridge for up to 4 days. Not suitable for freezing.
Replace the mozzarella with another cheese of your choice. For a hint of heat, add some crushed red pepper as the shallot is softening.

