name:
Rustic four-cheese pie
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8oz(230 g)- (1 roll)
Gruyere cheese: 4oz(120 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 3oz(90 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 5oz(150 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2tbsp
Cooked ham: 7oz(200 g)- sliced
Thyme: 1sprig
Sage: 3leaves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
Getting a group of people to agree about food is probably the most difficult thing you can do! Everyone has their own tastes and everyone’s taste buds interpret flavor nuances in a different way. But when our kitchen wizards turned out this rustic four-cheese pie , they knew there’d be no objections from the editorial staff – quite the contrary! We were all intrigued by this four-cheese treat, just like the classic four-cheese pasta. It’s an original way to win everyone over and also to clear out your fridge when you have too much leftover cheese. Try cooking our rustic four-cheese pie yourself and let us know if it brought instant harmony, like what happened here!
To prepare the rustic four-cheese pie , start by thinly slicing the scamorza and Gruyère cheeses and then dicing the Gorgonzola piccante .
Chop the sage leaves and remove the thyme leaves from the stem . Now get started on your savory pie. Unroll the puff pastry into an 11-inch (28-cm) dish and layer two-thirds of the sliced scamorza cheese ,
followed by a few slices of cooked ham , slices of Gruyère , and more ham. Then add the Gorgonzola cubes
and the remaining scamorza cheese . Fold in the edges of the pastry . Lastly, sprinkle over the herbs
and grated Parmigiano cheese . Now your rustic four-cheese pie is ready to bake in a preheated conventional oven at 350°F (180°C) for about 20 minutes , followed by another 2-3 minutes broiling at maximum power: Enjoy it piping hot !
The savory four-cheese pie will keep in the refrigerator for a couple of days but bear in mind that the pastry will tend to get softer. If you prefer, you can freeze the pie.
This savory four-cheese pie can easily be adapted for any situation! Start by mixing up the cheese varieties: Choose your favorites as long as the flavors don’t clash. Instead of cooked ham, you could opt for more delicately flavored cold cuts such as turkey breast, or choose speck or bacon if you prefer a fuller flavor. You can make this dish vegetarian by replacing the ham with fresh seasonal vegetables, from radicchio to zucchini.

