name:
Zucchini fritters
ingredients:
Zucchini: 1lb(400 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(50 g)- (grated)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(250 g)
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(2 g)
Water: 1cup(225 g)- (room temperature)
Fine salt: 1 ½tsp(10 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 26 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note + 3 hours for the leavening of the dough

instructions:
Fritters usually elicit mixed reactions, revealing a love/hate relationship... some people like to bake them in the oven as we did with the sweet version, some can only imagine them fried, and some eat them but don’t want anything to do with making them! Today, don’t think twice and get ready to fry, because these zucchini fritters served warm and freshly made are a treat for all of the senses: These flavorful, fragrant bites are crispy on the outside and melty on the inside, tempting you at first sight and winning you over with the first bite. Zucchini fritters are perfect for whetting your appetite as an appetizer or for jazzing up a buffet, maybe together with some tasty caper fritters, which will help to well and truly banish any feelings of guilt! As we were saying at the beginning, fritters are something you either love or hate... In this case, we’re sure you’ll love them! And if you’re looking for other ways to cook zucchini, try it in batter too.
To make the zucchni fritters , first wash and dry the zucchini thoroughly, then trim and grate using a large-hole grater . Place the grated zucchini in a strainer and leave to drain for around 30 minutes so they lose their vegetable water. You can also press using a spoon if necessary, or else press the zucchini well in a cloth to squeeze out more liquid.
Add the sifted flour and dried brewer’s yeast to a large bowl, and then begin to stir with a wooden spoon. Next, pour in the water, stirring vigorously to keep lumps from forming. Add fine salt to taste: We recommend 1½ tsp but use as much or as little as you like or are used to .
Pour in the grated cheese , continuing to stir vigorously; at this point, the dough will have a fairly dense consistency. Finally, add the well-drained grated zucchini
and stir until the dough is well blended . Then, cover the bowl with plastic wrap and leave to rise for 3 hours at a temperature of around 79°-80°F (26°-27°C), for example in an oven that’s turned off but with the light on. After 3 hours, the dough will have risen and will have little bubbles . Next, heat the peanut oil in a saucepan, and once it’s reached a temperature of 338°F (170°C) (measured using a food thermometer), submerge a spoonful of dough into the hot oil, using another spoon to get it to slide off .
Fry a few fritters at a time to keep the oil temperature from cooling down. Fry for 3-4 minutes, turning the fritters with a slotted spoon so they cook evenly on both sides . With this amount of dough, you’ll get around 26 fritters. Once they’re nice and golden, drain the fritters with a slotted spoon and transfer them on a paper towel to absorb the excess oil. Blot them to remove any additional excess oil . Add more salt if needed and serve your zucchini fritters piping hot!
The zucchini fritters should be eaten freshly fried. Not suitable for freezing.
If you wish, you can flavor your zucchini fritters by adding some thyme leaves, mint leaves, or lemon zest to the dough. You can also accompany the summer squash fritters with a flavorful mayonnaise, with or without egg, to create a tasty, colorful appetizer!

