name:
Tiramisù truffles
ingredients:
Mascarpone cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Ladyfingers: 5.5oz(160 g)
Coffee: ⅓cup(80 g)- (made in a moka pot and cooled to room temperature)
Powdered sugar: ½cup(60 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus time for firming in the freezer (20 minutes)

instructions:
So soft and round you just have to have another! These tiramisu truffles are little bite-size treats that require just a few ingredients – the same as the classic tiramisu – and while tiramisu may have become the most famous Italian dessert in the world, these little tiramisu truffles are going to become equally famous among your dinner guests! So easy to prepare in just a few minutes, they’ll soon become your secret weapon for showing off at last-minute dinners with friends, or to jazz up a birthday buffet! Why not also try a fresh, summery lemon version of these delicious sweet treats, or add a festive touch to any occasion with a red version!
Check out these other tasty variations of classic tiramisu:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make these tiramisu truffles , first prepare the coffee (you will need a total of 1/3 cup (80 g) and leave to cool to room temperature. Place the ladyfingers in a food processor and blitz until reduced to a powder. In the meantime, transfer the mascarpone to a bowl , and add the room-temperature coffee ,
along with the powdered sugar . Mix everything together using a spatula to achieve an even consistency. Next, add the powdered ladyfingers ,
and stir again to combine . Once the dough is thoroughly combined, take around a teaspoon of dough and shape it into a ball . You’ll get around 30 of these at ½ oz (15 g) each.
Next, roll each ball in the cocoa , and place them one by one on a tray lined with parchment paper . If you want to serve them immediately, leave them in the freezer for 30 minutes to firm up; otherwise, put them in the refrigerator. Place your tiramisu truffles in small cupcake liners before serving.
Store the truffles in the refrigerator and consume within a couple of days.
Feel free to use your favorite type of cookie and flavor your truffle balls with cinnamon, vanilla, or anything else you’d like to try. You might even like to try threading your truffles onto skewers to turn them into truffle lollipops!

