name:
Salmon tartare with avocado and toasted almonds
ingredients:
Salmon fillets: 14oz(400 g)- fillets
Fresh ginger: ½tsp(3 g)
Lime peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: 1pinch
Tabasco®: to taste
Chives: to taste
Rice vinegar: ½tbsp(10 g)
Almond flakes: 1 ½tbsp(30 g)
Avocado: 14oz(400 g)- ripe
Lime juice: 1
Piccadilly tomatoes: 3.5oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Note plus the salmon marinating time (30 minutes)

instructions:
Tartare is a delicious and elegant starter, perfect for serving on many occasions! Whether meat or fish, this preparation is characterized by the fact that it is made from entirely raw ingredients. After tartare steak, today we present this salmon tartare with avocado and toasted almond ... a delicate yet flavorsome dish that presents all the freshness of lime with spicy ginger notes. Soft Norwegian salmon is the perfect match for avocado cream, which will win you over thanks to its enveloping consistency and the sweetness of the tomatoes. You too can make this simple yet refined salmon tartare , perfect as a starter for Christmas parties too!
And if you love the taste of avocado, check out these recipes too:
To prepare salmon tartare with avocado and toasted almonds , start with the salmon. If you use Norwegian salmon you won't need to treat it before serving, otherwise check you buy a fillet that has been blast chilled; for safety's sake, you can freeze it for at least 96 hours at -0.4°F degrees before enjoying it raw (according to Italian Ministry of Health guidelines). Take the salmon fillet and remove any bones and if present, any skin too. Now slice and then finely dice it .
Place it in a bowl, add the salt , pepper, lime zest and a few drops of tabasco sauce .
Peel and grate the ginger , place the pulp between two spoons and squeeze to juice it, directly over the tartare . Add the rice vinegar
and finely chopped chives . Cover with some plastic wrap and leave to rest for 30 minutes in the refrigerator. In the meantime, prepare the avocado cream. Take the fruit, cut it in half and remove the pit .
Cut into the avocado pulp with a small knife and scoop it out with a spoon, placing it in a small bowl . Squeeze the lime and add to the avocado pieces .
Add a pinch of salt and pepper, mash with a fork to obtain a puree. Wash the tomatoes, cut them into small pieces ,
add them to the avocado pulp and stir to mix the ingredients together . Toast the blanched almonds , taking care not to burn them, then start composing your tartare. Use a 30 in diameter ring mold and a spoon to create the first layer of avocado cream .
Add the diced and marinated salmon , smooth off the surface and delicately remove the ring mold . Garnish the plate with the almond shards and finely chopped chives , then serve your salmon tartare with avocado and toasted almonds .
It is recommended that the salmon tartare is enjoyed freshly prepared. Alternatively, you can store it for no more than around 12 hours, in a sealed container. Freezing is not recommended.
Add 2 tea spoons of soy sauce for a more savory and decisive flavor, or some diced mango for a more vibrant note!
Before consuming raw, marinated or semi-cooked fish, it is recommended that you freeze it for at least 96 hours at -0.4°F in a home freezer with 3 or more stars, in accordance with Italian Ministry of Health guidelines .

