name:
Fruit tartlets
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ⅔cups(300 g)
Sugar: ¾cup
Butter: 1(150 g)- (refrigerated)
Eggs: 4oz(110 g)- (about 2 medium)
Lemon peel: 1
Baking powder: 1tsp
Fine salt: 1pinch
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Egg yolks: 3.25oz(90 g)- (about 6)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)
Cornstarch: ⅓cup(50 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fresh fruit: to taste- (mixed)
Mint: to taste
Apricot jam: 2 ½tsp(50 g)
Water: 2tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 22 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus 1 hour for the pie dough to rest in the fridge and the pastry cream to cool

instructions:
You’ll find fruit tartlets sitting pretty in the window of any patisserie shop, along with a whole host of other cute little specialties and teatime cookies such as meringues, the Piedmontese baci di dama cookies, and the inimitable Neapolitan cartucce. These impressive little crumbly pie dough cases, filled with velvety pastry cream and decorated with fresh seasonal fruit , make for a beautifully colorful sweet treat that always goes down well! With a wide variety of fruits to choose from for your garnish, you’re sure to find something for all tastes, and what’s more, fruit tartlets never go out of fashion and are a great opportunity to let your creativity run wild. It’s no wonder this classic mini pastry is such a firm favorite! You could even try a single-portion vegan version of the tartlets!
To prepare the fruit tartlets , you’ll first need to make your pie dough. If you like, you can work the ingredients by hand in the order that we suggest; otherwise, do so in a planetary mixer bowl using the flat beater. Pour in the flour, baking powder , and cold butter cut into small pieces . Mix for a few minutes until the mixture becomes sandy in texture, then add the sugar
and salt . Turn on the mixer again and mix until everything is well crumbled. Flavor with the zest of half a lemon and add the eggs .
Knead until the mixture is firm . Transfer the dough to a flat surface and knead lightly with your hands to form a loaf . Then, cover with plastic wrap and leave to rest in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour .
Once it has rested, take the dough and use a rolling pin to roll it out on a floured surface to a thickness of ¼ inch (0.5 cm). Next, cut discs out of the dough using a pastry cutter with a 3-inch (8 cm) diameter. Use these to line 22 scalloped molds with a 2¾-inch (7 cm) diameter, ensuring that the dough adheres well to the sides of the molds and removing any excess dough.
Prick the bases with the prongs of a fork to prevent them from rising as they cook. Bake the cases in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for around 18-20 minutes . Once golden brown, remove from the oven and leave to cool before turning out onto a tray .
While the cases are cooling completely, prepare the pastry cream. Heat the milk together with the vanilla bean and the seeds extracted from it. Meanwhile, beat the egg yolks with the sugar in a small bowl before adding the cornstarch .
Stir gently with a beater to combine . Now that the milk is hot, remove the bean and trickle a little on the mixture to dilute it, before mixing thoroughly with a beater .
Transfer this mixture to the small saucepan containing the milk and stir continuously on low heat until the cream has thickened. The pastry cream is now ready. Transfer it to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap and leave to cool .
Transfer the pastry cream to a pastry bag with a star-shaped nozzle and fill the dough cases, garnishing with your choice of fruits. We chose strawberries, kiwi, and berries, with a few mint leaves to fragrance . Finally, dilute the jelly with hot water or place it in a small saucepan and heat for a few seconds,
just enough to melt it . Glaze the fruit using a small brush , and your fruit tartlets are ready to serve !
The fruit tartlets can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
The pie dough can be frozen before baking and then defrosted when needed to make the cases.
Fruit tartlets are one of those recipes that you can customize to the max, changing the fruits you use according to the season and to suit your tastes.
You could even try a delicious chocolate cream instead of pastry cream!

