name:
Rustici leccesi (Puff pastry with mozzarella and tomato)
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 1lb(920 g)
Tomato purée: 2tbsp(30 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 1 ½tbsp(35 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 3tbsp(20 g)
Butter: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Eggs: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Ideal as a snack at any time of day, rustici leccesi is a tasty and flavorful specialty of Italy’s Salento region. Fragrant puff pastry discs envelop a soft filling of béchamel, tomato, and mozzarella. The resulting flaky morsel is easy to prepare: rustici leccesi are excellent when eaten warm. You can find them at all the takeaways and bars in the Salento region. They are traditionally eaten at the beach in summer. This Italian street food epitomizes all the flavors and aromas of Mediterranean cuisine. You can eat them with other street food favorites such as puccia or focaccia for a medley of Apulian flavors .
To prepare the rustici leccesi first make the béchamel: Heat the milk in a saucepan and melt the butter separately in another saucepan over low heat , add the flour and stir quickly with a whisk to prevent any lumps from forming .
When all the flour has been incorporated, add the warm milk , and let the sauce thicken over medium heat while still stirring . Flavor with nutmeg ,
season with salt , and then cover the béchamel with plastic wrap in contact with the surface. Slice the mozzarella and then chop finely . If the mozzarella is too wet, leave it to dry in a colander.
Add a drizzle of oil and salt to the tomato puree. Use a 4-inch (10 cm) food ring mold
to cut 16 discs from the puff pastry sheet and another 8 discs using a 3-inch (8 cm) food ring mold (13-14). Place 8 of the larger discs on a baking tray lined with parchment paper ,
brush the surface with beaten egg and place another disc of the same size on top . This operation will ensure the pastry puffs upwards and makes the rustici leccesi rise. Place a generous teaspoonful of béchamel in the middle of the disc ,
then a teaspoonful of tomato puree and a little chopped mozzarella cheese . Brush the edges with egg
and cover the larger disc with the smaller ones , pressing with your fingers to seal the edges . Do the same for all the other rustici leccesi and then brush on more beaten egg .
The rustici leccesi are now ready to cook . Bake in a conventional oven preheated to 400°F (200°C) for about 20 minutes, until they are golden brown . Once ready, take your rustici leccesi out of the oven and let them cool before serving !
Rustici leccesi are eaten lukewarm. You can keep them in the fridge covered with plastic wrap and eat them by the following day. You can freeze the rustici leccesi uncooked and then defrost them for an hour in the refrigerator before baking as per the recipe!
You can jazz up your rustici leccesi by adding ham if you like.

