name:
New York cheesecake
ingredients:
Cookies: 12.7oz(360 g)
Butter: 1 ⅓cup(300 g)
Cream cheese: 3.3cups(750 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.67cup(150 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 2
Egg yolks: 1
Cornstarch: 5tbsp(40 g)
Lemon juice: ½
Vanilla bean: ½
Sour cream: 0.6cup(150 g)
Berries: 1.3cups(200 g)
Mint: to taste
Strawberries: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 10
Note + cooling time in the refrigerator (at least 2 ½ h)

instructions:
To prepare the cheesecake, first melt the butter and let it cool; in the meantime, place the biscuits in a food processor and blend them until powdered . Then transfer them to a bowl and pour in the melted butter .
Mix with a spoon or spatula until the mixture is uniform ; then take a 9-inch springform pan and line the base with parchment paper. Place half of the biscuits inside and press them with the back of a spoon to compact them .
Line the sides of the pan using the remaining biscuits, helping yourself with the spoon or your hands . Once you've covered the entire surface, place the base of your cheesecake to set in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. In the meantime, focus on the cream: in a bowl, pour the eggs, yolk, and sugar , then whisk everything with a whisk until you get a creamy consistency .
Scrape the seeds from half of the vanilla bean (saving the rest for later) and add them to the eggs . Also, gradually add the cream cheese .
Continue mixing with a whisk . Once you have a homogeneous mixture, also add the lemon juice and cornstarch .
Then add the cream and gently mix again with the whisk . Retrieve the pan with the biscuit base from the refrigerator and pour the mixture inside .
Slightly level the surface and bake in a preheated static oven at 320°F for 60 minutes, then continue baking at 340°F for another 20 minutes. Once baked, let the cheesecake cool in the oven with the door open. Then remove it and proceed with the topping. In a bowl, mix the sour cream with the reserved vanilla bean seeds and combine everything with a spatula.
When the cake is cold, remove the pan and transfer it to a plate. Pour the vanilla-flavored sour cream over the cake and spread it evenly, leaving a free edge of about 0.4 inches . Place it in the refrigerator to set for 2 hours. After the resting time, focus on the decoration by adding the fruit to the center. Wash the berries and cut the strawberries into wedges .
Decorate with strawberries, raspberries , blackberries, blueberries, and currants . Finish with mint leaves and serve your beautiful New York cheesecake !
The cheesecake can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. Alternatively, it can be frozen for a month.
Depending on the type of dry biscuits you use, a different amount of butter may be necessary. If you use biscuits that contain oil or other fats, the amount may even be halved. If a little butter drips from the pan during baking, don't worry. Place a tray underneath to avoid messing up the oven. Instead of berries, you can garnish the dessert with other fresh fruits or chocolate!
Can't find crème fraîche? No problem! You can follow our guide: How to make sour cream !

