name:
Seafood carbonara
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11oz(320 g)
Tuna: 3.5oz(100 g)
Swordfish: 3.5oz(100 g)
Salmon: 3.5oz(100 g)
Egg yolks: 6
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(60 g)
White wine: ¼cup(60 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Thyme: 6sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the seafood carbonara , start by heating the water for the pasta and salting it as soon as it comes to a boil. Meanwhile, separate the eggs. You’ll need 6 yolks for this recipe. Pour into a bowl and add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese , pepper, salt, and thyme leaves .
Beat with a whisk , then dilute with a little of the pasta cooking water . Make sure there are no bones in the salmon and remove the skin from the swordfish ,
then cut the tuna , salmon , and swordfish into cubes around 1 inch (2.5 cm) in size.
By this point the water should be at a boil . Toss in the pasta and undercook it by a couple of minutes. In the meantime, heat a little oil in a pan, and add the whole peeled garlic clove. Once the sauce is hot, add the fish cubes and fry over high heat for around 1 minute. Remove the garlic ,
add the white wine and let it simmer. Once the alcohol has evaporated, remove the fish cubes with a skimmer , set aside, and lower the heat. Once the pasta is al dente, take a ladleful of water and pour it into the pan,
drain the spaghetti, and add that too . Thicken for around 1 minute, stirring continuously to release the starches from the pasta, adding some cooking water if necessary. Pour in the egg yolk mixture
and the fish cubes . Stir well and add a little more water from the pasta if necessary . Your seafood carbonara is ready. Plate it up while still piping hot and garnish with grated cheese and pepper to taste .
We recommend eating this seafood carbonara right away.
Not recommended for freezing.
Just like with a traditional carbonara, you can also replace the spaghetti with mezzemanica, rigatoni, or paccheri pasta in this version if you prefer. If you want to stick with tradition, however, you should use Pecorino cheese. If you do, we’d recommend substituting ? of the Parmigiano Reggiano cheese to avoid making the dish too rich.

You might even like to experiment with different versions of the dish using other types of fish, maybe even smoked!
Our seafood carbonara is more a “nautical” version of the classic carbonara. The pieces of fish are, in fact, reminiscent of the guanciale cubes typically used. There’s also a version of seafood carbonara that’s very famous in Tuscany, and in Viareggio in particular.

