name:
Potato parmigiana
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Cooked ham: 5.65oz(160 g)
Provola cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 3tbsp(25 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you’re looking for a unique dish that’s as tasty as a pie but is prepared more like a parmigiana, then this potato parmigiana is the one for you! We’re all familiar with the classic eggplant parmigiana , the zucchini version , and maybe even the mouth-watering anchovy version, but this variant has it all: tempting layers of potato with soft ham and provola cheese in the middle, all enveloped in a creamy béchamel sauce. This quick and easy parmigiana is perfect for a last-minute lunch or a Sunday feast with friends and family, even if you’re short on time, as you can actually prepare it a few days ahead of time and cook it immediately before serving with spectacular results! You really can’t go wrong with a potato parmigiana : try it and you’ll see!
To prepare the potato parmigiana , start with the béchamel sauce. Melt the butter in a saucepan , then add the sifted flour and stir to prevent lumps from forming . Add the hot milk a trickle at a time and keep stirring to thicken the mixture over low heat.
Flavor the béchamel with grated nutmeg and add a pinch of salt and pepper. Continue to mix with a beater until the béchamel has reached a creamy consistency , then turn off the heat and leave to cool in a bowl .
Peel the potatoes , blanch for 10 minutes to soften them slightly so that they do not flake but remain intact . Cooking time may vary depending on the size of the potatoes. Drain them and allow to cool slightly before cutting them into slices of around ¼ inch (5 mm) thick .
Next, cut the provola cheese into slices around ¼ inch (5 mm) thick . Take a rectangular oven dish measuring 11x7 inches (28x18 cm) and spread a layer of béchamel sauce on the bottom using the back of a spoon . Lay half of the potato slices next to one other .
Season with salt and pepper , then spread another layer of béchamel sauce on top , followed by half of the provola cheese slices .
Cover everything with half of the cooked ham and start with another layer. Spread the béchamel sauce over the top, sprinkle with grated cheese , and lay the remaining potato slices on top .
Cover everything with more béchamel sauce , lay the remaining slices of cooked ham on top , add another layer of béchamel sauce and
the remaining Provola , and sprinkle the grated cheese over the top to finish . Bake for 45 minutes in a conventional oven preheated to 350-365°F (180-185°C). Once the necessary time has passed, check that the dish is cooked by inserting a toothpick: If you can easily pierce the potatoes, your potato parmigiana is ready to serve !
You can prepare your parmigiana up to 2 days before baking, covering it with plastic wrap and storing it in the refrigerator. Once cooked and cooled, it will keep for 3 days in the refrigerator in an airtight container. It can also be frozen in the same way.
You might like to add your favorite type of sausage or cheese, such as mortadella or Emmental, to the potato parmigiana, or alternate the layers with chopped walnuts and arugula for an interesting twist!

