name:
Lemon pastry cream pie
ingredients:
Whole milk: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Lemon peel: 3
Lemon juice: 1
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Cornstarch: ½cup(70 g)
Egg yolks: ½cup(130 g)- (about 6)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(50 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(50 g)
Eggs: ¼cup(55 g)- (1 medium)
Lemon peel: 1
Baking powder: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)- (melted)
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Eggs: 3.8oz(110 g)- (2 whole)
Egg yolks: 1tbsp(15 g)- (approximately 1)
Cornstarch: ½cup(35 g)
Whole milk: 2 ¼cups(15 g)
Lemon peel: 2

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time for the various preparations (2-3 hours)

instructions:
Three layers of pure delight that will keep you going back for more… A delicious lemon filling enclosed between a layer of soft, fragrant pie dough and a soft layer of sponge cake. This lemon pastry cream pie is a dessert that will take you through the day; it’s perfect for serving at any time. Family breakfasts or dinner with friends are both ideal occasions for this cake, which is packed full of delicious lemon flavor and will be a fresh treat at any time of year.
Start by making this ingredient of your lemon pastry cream pie . Firstly, warm the milk in a saucepan over low heat. Meanwhile, place the egg yolks in a large bowl, add the sugar and beat quickly. Then pour in the juice of a lemon , beat again, and add the cornstarch .
Continue to beat with a whisk until the mixture is smooth . As soon as the milk begins to boil, pour it slowly into the egg yolk mixture and stir. Then pour the resulting mixture into the pan and return to the heat, stirring with a spatula .
Add the grated zest of 3 lemons and continue to stir until the mixture has thickened . If the mixture gets lumpy, remove the custard from the heat and stir vigorously with a spatula until the lumps have gone. As soon as the pastry cream is smooth, pour it into a baking dish and cover it with plastic wrap in contact with the surface. Allow to cool, then place in the refrigerator to cool for at least two hours.
Meanwhile, start to make the pie dough . Pour the flour into a bowl, then add the sugar , baking powder , and cubes of cold butter .
Mix the ingredients with your hands to a crumb-like consistency . Then add the lightly beaten eggs and lemon zest .
Mix all the ingredients well, knead by hand (7-8) and transfer to a surface to roll the dough into a compact ball .
Cover with plastic wrap and allow to rest for an hour in the fridge. Once this time has elapsed, roll the pastry out onto a floured board with a rolling pin until the dough is ½ inch (1.5 cm) thick . Butter a 9-inch (22 cm) mold and line it with the pie dough .
Press down to ensure it is all in contact with the mold. The pie dough lining must extend halfway up the sides of the mold. Remove any excess dough with a small knife and use it to thicken and level the edge . Now return to the refrigerator for at least 10 minutes .
Meanwhile, prepare the topping mixture . Firstly, melt the butter and let it cool slightly. Put the egg and egg yolk in a bowl, add the sugar, and beat everything with an electric beater until the mixture is light and fluffy . With the beater still running, pour in the milk
and add the lemon zest . Now add the sifted cornstarch and flour to the egg mixture
and fold in gently with a whisk, working from the bottom upwards . Add the lukewarm butter and mix from the bottom upwards again to ensure that the butter is absorbed without the mixture separating . All the components of the dish are ready.
Firstly, stir the pastry cream with a spoon to soften it and transfer it to a pastry bag . Spread half of it over the base, starting from the center
and creating a spiral pattern over the surface . Cover with the sponge cake mixture and level the surface with a spatula .
Take any leftover pastry cream and pile it up in the middle of the cake , then use this mixture to draw lines outlining 8 wedges , and place another dollop of custard in the center of each wedge .
Now bake in a conventional oven preheated to 340°F (170°C) for approximately 55 minutes on the lowest shelf. Once cooked, take your lemon pastry cream pie out of the oven and leave to cool completely before turning it out of the mold and serving .
The lemon pastry cream pie can be kept in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Not suitable for freezing. The pie dough can be prepared a day in advance.
The pastry cream can be stored for a day.
The topping should preferably be used as soon as it is ready.
Why not try a version with orange? Substitute orange zest and juice for lemon zest and juice wherever they occur in the recipe.

