name:
Pasta and zucchini
ingredients:
Bow tie pasta: 3 ¼cups(320 g)
Zucchini: 1.5lbs(650 g)
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Stuffed, fried, pickled in oil, baked with parmesan cheese or simply sautéed! Zucchini are very versatile vegetables that you never get tired of in the kitchen! Today we want to prepare with you a quick and easy dish, the kind you make when you have few ingredients available, but you don't want to leave anything to chance. Even a simple pasta and zucchini can turn into a creamy and tasty recipe that everyone likes! We decided to make zucchini the star of this dish, scented only with a few basil leaves! The result will be a fresh, delicate taste perfect for seasoning short pasta.
To prepare pasta and zucchini , boil water in a large pan and add salt when it comes to a boil. In the meantime, wash and dry the zucchini , trim and grate them with an extra coarse grater . Pour the extra virgin olive oil in a fairly large pan and heat it over low heat together with a peeled garlic clove.
As soon as the oil is hot, add the zucchini seasoned with salt and pepper and let them cook for 5-6 minutes, stirring occasionally; then remove the garlic . In the meantime, cook the pasta in boiling salted water and drain it al dente, keeping a little cooking water.
Pour the pasta directly into the pan with the zucchini and add a little cooking water , sweat for a few moments, stir, then turn off the heat. Add a few fragrant hand-torn basil leaves and your pasta and zucchini is ready to be enjoyed .
Pasta and zucchini can be stored in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to one day. Freezing is not recommended.
Pasta and zucchini lends itself to be enriched with many ingredients, so you can really indulge yourself and add what you like. If you want, you can grate some salted ricotta cheese or Parmesan cheese, or you can add some cherry tomatoes or smoked bacon to give your dish extra flavor!

