name:
Cheesy rice-stuffed eggplant
ingredients:
Eggplant: 2lbs(900 g)
Carnaroli rice: 1.6cups(300 g)
White wine: 3tbsp(50 g)
Shallot: 1.75oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Tomato purée: 14oz(400 g)
Coarse salt: 1pinch
Vegetable broth: 2cups(500 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.3cups(150 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 4.25oz(120 g)
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch
Black pepper: 1pinch
Peanut seed oil: 4cups(800 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare your cheesy rice-stuffed eggplant , first make the vegetable broth that you will need later on for the rice. Meanwhile, prepare the eggplants by washing them, drying them with paper towel, trimming them, and cutting them in half lengthwise . Take a small knife with a sharp blade and make an incision between the skin and the flesh . Continue making this incision, following the outline of the eggplant and applying slight pressure to separate the flesh from the skin without breaking it.
Cut the flesh into cubes and fry them in plenty of hot oil . The recommended temperature for dry frying is 340-350°F (170-180°C) (use a thermometer to measure this). Once the eggplant cubes are nicely browned, drain them and place them on a paper towel . Salt to taste.
Fry the eggplant skins that you put aside earlier separately in the peanut oil. As soon as they’re golden brown , drain them on a tray using paper towels .
Set the eggplants aside while you prepare your rice. Finely chop the shallot and gently fry in a pan with the oil. Once it has softened, add the rice and toast for a few minutes, stirring frequently .
Once the rice has changed color, deglaze with the white wine , then add the tomato puree and a pinch of salt. Stir, then add the hot broth a little at a time until the rice is cooked. This should take around 20 minutes.
Once the rice is ready, add the Parmigiano Reggiano cheese , reserving around ½ cup (50 g) to sprinkle over the eggplant. Stir, then transfer the rice to a bowl. Tear the basil leaves and add them together with the eggplant cubes to the bowl.
Arrange the fried eggplant skins in a casserole dish and start layering your filling. First, add 1 tablespoon of rice , then a slice of scamorza cheese , followed by another tablespoon of rice .
Finish by sprinkling the eggplant with the reserved Parmigiano Reggiano cheese and broil at 460°F (240°C) for around 4-5 minutes. Remove from the oven and serve your cheesy rice-stuffed eggplant hot .
Store your cheesy rice-stuffed eggplant for up to 1 day in the refrigerator. Not recommended for freezing.
Caciocavallo, smoked scamorza, and provola are the perfect cheeses to ensure a stringy filling! We don’t recommend using mozzarella or any other kind of dairy product because it releases its whey during the cooking process, which can ruin the end result.

