name:
Crostini with mussels and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Mussels: 4cups(400 g)
Baguette: 1(120 g)
White wine: ¼cup(50 ml)- still
Garlic: 2cloves
Cherry tomatoes: ⅔cup(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)
Parsley: 1small bunch- fresh
Pepper: 1pinch
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Crostini (toasted bread) with mussels and cherry tomatoes can be served as a delicious appetizer. A few simple ingredients typical of Mediterranean cuisine such as bread, seafood and fresh tomatoes are used here in an equally simple but impressive recipe: the inviting mussels blend perfectly with the base of cherry tomatoes. Crunchy toasted bread is the ideal complement to this dish. A slice of fragrant bread is the base from which to create the most varied crostini : trust me, you'll want to add this version with mussels and cherry tomatoes to your favorites!
Enjoy these additional recipes too:
To prepare crostini with mussels and cherry tomatoes , start by cleaning the mussels. Place them to a large bowl and, after washing them carefully under running water, use the back of a knife blade to remove all scale and barnacles . Scrub mussels individually to remove the beard from the valves . Under fresh running water, rub the mussels vigorously using a steel wool pad or a stiff brush .
Brown some of the olive oil in a non-stick pan with the unpeeled garlic clove, which you can remove when it turns golden brown . Pour the cleaned mussels into the oil and immediately add the white wine .
Place a lid on the saucepan and let it cook on high heat for 5 minutes, which is the time needed for the mussels to open. When they are ready , pour the mussels in a strainer, taking care to place a bowl underneath to collect the cooking liquid .
Now you can shell the mussels , keeping aside the filtered cooking liquid and some whole mussels to serve them next to the crostini (toasted bread) . Next, finely chop the fresh parsley .
After washing them, cut the cherry tomatoes into quarters . Pour the remaining olive oil in another pan and brown the other unpeeled garlic clove , add the cherry tomatoes .
As soon as the garlic is golden brown, remove it from the pan with a pair of tongs , add the mussels' cooking liquid, lower the heat and let it evaporate for 5-6 minutes : avoid overcooking the tomatoes until they fall apart. Now add the shelled mussels and stir to blend all the flavors for a couple of minutes.
Finally, add the chopped parsley and freshly ground pepper. Now slice a baguette crosswise to obtain 12 slices , which you can then place on a baking tray lined with baking paper and drizzle with olive oil .
Toast the crostini in a static oven preheated to 360° F (180° C) for 5 minutes, or in grill mode for 2 minutes: in either case, turn each slice over about halfway through. When the crostini are ready, place them on a chopping board and, with the help of a spoon, garnish each one with some tomatoes and 2 mussels . Finish with a sprinkling of salt and pepper . Your crostini (toasted bread) with mussels and cherry tomatoes are ready!
Crostini (toasted bread) should be enjoyed as soon as possible. Not suitable for freezing.
To prepare crostini (toasted bread) with mussels and cherry tomatoes, choose large mussels, which cover the slice of bread attractively. Choose the bread you prefer to personalize your crostini (toasted bread).

