name:
Pineapple upside-down cake
ingredients:
Pineapple: 1.4lbs- cleaned
Eggs: 1.3cups(165 g)- (about 4 medium, at room temperature)
Butter: ¾cup(170 g)- soft
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 2cups(220 g)
Baking powder: ¾tsp(3 g)
Almond flour: ½cup(50 g)
Almond milk: 1cup(140 g)- at room temperature
Fine salt: 0.3tsp(2 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Sugar: 0.6cup(150 g)
Water: 0.6cup(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
The pineapple upside-down cake is a soft fruit cake in which pineapple, a fruit loved by young and old alike, plays the leading role! The "inverted" baking method, with the fruit underneath instead of on top of the cake, gives the desserts a scenic appearance and sophisticated taste, such as in our pineapple upside-down cupcakes and the banana upside-down cake. The special feature of the pineapple upside-down cake is the bittersweet taste of caramel that blends with the freshness of the pineapple, creating a contrast of delicious flavors that goes well with the delicacy of the cake. The pineapple upside-down cake is a very versatile dessert that is suitable for breakfast, a snack, but also perfect as a dessert, perhaps served while still warm with a delicious scoop of cream-flavored ice cream or whipped cream. Your guests will ask for seconds!
To make the pineapple upside-down cake , first clean the pineapple (you will need 23 oz (650 g) in total): remove the base, cut off the green top and remove the skin (2-3).
Now remove the center core (4-5) with a special coring  tool. Cut 12 oz (350 g) of the pineapple into thin slices.
Then reduce them into quarters and set  them aside, they will be used to cover the base of the cake pan . Dice the remaining 11 oz (300 g) of pineapple . Use a cake pan with a 9.5-inch (24 cm) diameter at the top and an 8.5-inch (22 cm) diameter at the bottom, with a 2-inch (5 cm) high edge. Pour the water and sugar in and place over medium heat
until brown, then turn off the heat and add the chopped butter and stir. Now lay the previously cut pineapple slices in a spiral shape . You will have to completely cover the bottom .
Set aside and prepare the cake dough: in a bowl, pour the soft, chopped butter, sugar and salt . Whip the mixture with an electric whisk and add the whole eggs one at a time .
While whipping at low speed, add the flour 00 , baking powder and , once absorbed, alternate the almond flour
and almond milk . Once you have obtained a homogeneous mixture, add the diced pineapple . Pour the dough into the cake pan .
Level the surface with a spatula (22-23) and bake in a static oven preheated to 365° F (185° C) for one hour. Once ready, take the cake out of the oven, use a knife to delicately detach the cake from the pan
and turn it over on a rack while it is still hot so that the excess caramel drips out, then remove the pan without burning yourself . Let your pineapple upside-down cake cool and then serve!
The pineapple upside-down cake is best warm, so we recommend eating it shortly after baking. However, you can store it 1-2 days at room temperature under a glass cloche. You can freeze it if you have used only fresh ingredients.
If you do not have fresh pineapple available, you can replace it with pineapple slices in syrup , keeping the amounts and the procedure the same: drain the slices well before placing them on the bottom of the cake pan to caramelize! And in order not to waste the syrup , you can put it in the dough instead of the milk!

