name:
Rigatoni with sun-dried tomato pesto
ingredients:
Rigatoni: 11oz(320 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 1lb(400 g)
Pine nuts: 0.3cup(30 g)
Peeled almonds: 3tbsp(20 g)
Basil: 10leaves

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Rigatoni with sun-dried tomato pesto is a simple but flavorsome first course packed with Mediterranean flavors. This particular pasta shape helps conserve the flavor: The thick pesto sticks perfectly to the ridged insides and outsides of the pasta tubes! Sun-dried tomatoes, the main ingredient in this recipe, are typically dried in summer on the terraces of southern Italian houses and then preserved in oil when they develop their strong, savory taste. This goes well with equally tasty flavors such as the prawns in our gluten-free pasta dish! Sun-dried tomato pesto can be made in just a few simple steps: by adding just pine nuts, almonds, and basil you get a very dense and tasty sauce that’s ideal for those who crave the colors and aromas of southern Italy and perfect for lovers of intense, savory flavors. Once mixed, just add a little cooking water to bind the pasta and pesto even more tightly. Rigatoni with sun-dried tomato pesto allows you to bring a little piece of the Mediterranean to your table and will delight those who love strong flavors. All that’s left to do is for you to prepare it and… savor it!
Check out our variations of pesto:
To prepare rigatoni with sun-dried tomato pesto , start by preparing the pesto. Pour the sun-dried tomatoes into the mixer without draining off any of the oil they’re preserved in , then add the pine nuts and peeled almonds .
Lastly, add the basil leaves . Blend until the mixture is slightly grainy , then transfer to a small bowl and set aside. Now heat some water in a saucepan, add salt, and pour in the pasta once it’s come to a boil .
Remove about 5 fl oz (150 ml) of cooking water and set aside . Then drain the pasta two minutes before the cooking time stated on the package is up . In the meantime, take the pesto and place it in the saucepan where the pasta was cooked , adding a little cooking water to make it creamier.
Add the rigatoni to the pesto , stir to color the pasta, and add more cooking water if necessary, adjusting according to the thickness of the sauce . Stir to combine everything and cook for a further two minutes over low heat to keep the sauce from drying out. Now your rigatoni with sun-dried tomato pesto is ready to be served and enjoyed !
The rigatoni with sun-dried tomato pesto can be kept in the fridge in an airtight container or well covered with plastic wrap for two days. If there is any leftover pasta, you can freeze it and then thaw it in the fridge when needed.
Sun-dried tomato pesto is a great condiment: It goes well with all pasta shapes, but short, ridged pasta brings out the very best in it. If you want to pep up your dish before serving, we suggest adding a few whole basil leaves: These fragrant splashes of color are sure to wow your guests – and their taste buds!

