name:
Rum babà (Rum syrup infused sponge cake)
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 4 ¾cups(600 g)
Eggs: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (about 10 medium)
Butter: 0.9cup(200 g)- soft
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1oz(25 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¾tsp(10 g)
Water: 8 ½cups(1.5 l)
Sugar: 3cups(600 g)
Rum: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Orange peel: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 4 ¼cups(1 l)- cold
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Vanilla bean: 1- (the seeds)
Strawberries: 2cups(300 g)
Mint: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the rising time (about 3 h 40 min) and resting time (at least 6 h)

instructions:
It is a typical Neapolitan delight, soft and soaked in an aromatic alcoholic syrup, making it unmistakable... we are obviously talking about the rum baba ! Preparing it at home with your own hands is easier than you think: with our step-by-step instructions and a bit of patience for the resting times, you will achieve perfect babas, with a soft and fluffy texture, just like those from the best pastry shops in Naples.
The Neapolitan baba can be enjoyed plain or enriched with whipped cream, custard, and fresh fruit: we offer you a delicious version filled with chantilly cream , strawberries, and mint leaves for an intoxicating aroma.
Ideal as a dessert for special occasions, the rum baba is one of those recipes that encapsulates the essence and tradition of a region and its people... bring its authentic taste to the table and let it win you over!
Discover other must-try Neapolitan pastry specialties :
To prepare the rum babas, start with the dough: pour the Manitoba flour into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment , then add the crumbled yeast and sugar .
Start the stand mixer at low speed , then add the eggs a little at a time , waiting for them to be well incorporated. Once the eggs are absorbed, add the salt and continue working for a couple of minutes.
Finally, add the butter, a piece at a time ; slightly increase the speed and make sure it is incorporated evenly. You need to obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rise at room temperature for 3 hours or until it doubles in volume .
In the meantime, start preparing the rum syrup: pour the water into a pot along with the sugar and orange peels .
Add the lemon peels as well , then bring to a boil, stirring to completely dissolve the sugar. At this point, turn off the heat and pour in the rum ; this will lower the alcohol content. Stir and let it cool slightly .
After the dough's resting time , take a portion of about 2 oz with a spoon and place it in the appropriate baba molds with a diameter of 2 inches that you have previously buttered, filling them halfway . Place the molds on a baking tray and let them rise for about 40 minutes or until doubled .
After the rising time, the dough will have doubled in volume . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 20 minutes . Once baked, remove them from the mold while still hot. Transfer the babas to a wire rack and let them cool overnight (or at least for 6 hours) .
After the resting time, slightly heat the syrup and immerse the babas . Let them soak for about 10 minutes, turning them occasionally and ensuring they are not too tight . Once soaked, let them drain on a wire rack .
In the meantime, you can prepare the chantilly cream: in a bowl, pour the cold cream and powdered sugar , then whip with electric beaters . When you reach a firm consistency, add the vanilla bean seeds .
Gently mix with a spatula to combine , then transfer the cream into a piping bag with a 1/2-inch round tip .
You are ready for the filling: make a lengthwise cut in the babas , then slightly open the incision and pipe in dollops of whipped cream .
Garnish with strawberry wedges and fresh mint leaves . Your rum babas are ready to be enjoyed !
The rum babas can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
Unsoaked babas can be stored at room temperature for 2-3 days; alternatively, they can be frozen for up to 2 weeks, always without the syrup.
If you wish, you can further soak the babas after immersion by brushing them with a pastry brush.
Did you know you can also make a Savory Baba ? Try our recipe for the Rustic Savory Babà !
The Savarin is a French dessert very similar to the baba, differing in shape and type of syrup... discover the differences!

