name:
Baked pasta nests
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Eggs: 2- whole medium (at room temperature)
Milk: 2.3cups(550 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.3cup(40 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(50 g)
Salt: 1pinch
Nutmeg: 1pinch- (grated)
Champignon mushrooms: 5oz(150 g)
Cooked ham: 5oz(140 g)
Emmentaler cheese: 5oz(140 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(50 g)- (grated)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes for the dough to rest and 20 minutes for it to firm up

instructions:
Today we show you how to prepare the most delicious baked pasta nests , the perfect recipe for a Sunday lunch with the family. A sheet of fresh homemade pasta, just like grandma used to make, with flour and fresh eggs, stuffed with mushrooms, ham and cheese… a rich, tasty, and altogether irresistible Sunday dish. As well as tasting great, these delicious little stuffed pasta rounds look great as well: Their filling rolled in egg pastry looks a lot like a rose, but in this case it’s even better since you get to eat it! Why not try our baked pasta nests this Sunday? We’re sure your fellow diners will love them, and it wouldn’t be so bad to get some compliments on what a great cook you are, would it?
To prepare the baked pasta nests , you’ll need to start with the fresh dough. Pour the flour into a bowl , then move to a pastry board or work surface, and add the eggs at room temperature. Always remember to keep some of the flour aside because the eggs may not be able to absorb it all . Start by stirring with a fork .
Then, continue with your hands , and once you’ve obtained a more compact dough, transfer it to the pastry board, continuing to knead well until the dough is smooth and consistent, adding flour as needed . Cover the dough in plastic wrap and leave to rest at room temperature for 30 minutes .
In the meantime, get to work preparing the béchamel. Heat 2¼ cups (500 g) of milk in a small saucepan and flavor it with grated nutmeg . Melt the butter in another small saucepan ,
and add the flour once the butter has melted. Cook for a couple of minutes, mixing with a whisk to obtain a thickening base called a roux . Mix in the hot milk ,
and continue to cook, stirring continuously with a whisk, until the sauce comes to a boil . Transfer all of the sauce to a bowl , cover with plastic wrap, and leave to cool to room temperature .
Move on to the filling. Start by cleaning the mushrooms. First remove the bottoms , then, using a small brush, scrape off any remaining soil , and finally, slice thinly . Remember that it’s not advisable to wash the mushrooms, in order to keep them from absorbing too much water and therefore losing their flavor and consistency. Only rinse them quickly under cool water, or clean them with a damp cloth if they’re particularly dirty.
Take the dough and use a rolling pin to roll it out on a lightly floured pastry board . You will need to end up with a 20x12-inch (50x30-cm) rectangle with the thickness of a coin (1-2 mm) . Even out the edges by slicing them off if need be. Transfer the dough to a sheet of parchment paper .
Next, carefully spread 2-3 generous spoonfuls of béchamel sauce over the entire surface, leaving an inch (a couple of centimeters) uncovered at the edges . Now for the filling. Arrange the sliced ham and mushrooms and sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese (keeping some aside), along with a pinch of salt .
To finish, arrange the sliced Emmentaler cheese on top . Dampen the edges with a little water so that they become sticky , and finally, roll the dough with the help of the parchment paper .
Wrap the roll in paper , lay it on a tray, and place it in the freezer for around 20 minutes . This step is key to helping it to keep its shape when you cut it. Meanwhile, pour a few more spoonfuls of béchamel sauce into a 12 x8 -inch (30x20-cm) casserole dish measuring and carefully spread over the entire surface .
Next, dilute the béchamel with the remaining 3 tbsp (50 g) of milk to make it much lighter, and put it to one side to use for dressing later on . Once the required time has elapsed, take the roll and slice it into 20 rounds, each around an inch (2.5 cm) thick . Arrange them in the casserole dish, one on top of the other, slightly overlapping and slanting .
Pour the diluted béchamel over the top , sprinkle with the remaining Parmigiano and bake in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for 40 minutes. Your baked pasta nests are ready to be plated up and enjoyed !
The swallow’s nests can be baked and stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, covered with plastic wrap.
It is not advisable to prepare the dough too far in advance, as egg pasta tends to darken and the béchamel would make the base too soft.
You can freeze the dish after cooking if you’ve used fresh ingredients.
Experiment with different combinations of ingredients to satisfy your taste buds!
Try making a vegetable version of the swallow’s nests by simply filling them with a mixture of grilled vegetables.

