name:
Ricotta and chocolate cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Dark chocolate: 3.5oz(100 g)
Sugar: 0.9cup(180 g)
Eggs: 5.3oz(150 g)- (about 3 medium)
Butter: (80 g)
Whole milk: ¼cup(40 g)
Baking powder: 4tsp(16 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + the time to drain the ricotta (at least 30 min.)

instructions:
Homemade Ricotta is a particularly beloved ingredient in pastry-making that is used to fill a wide variety of desserts, from cannoli to pies... this time, however, we added it directly to the batter to make the ricotta and chocolate cake! The result will be a super soft cloud of sweetness enriched by a cascade of large chunks of dark chocolate. Ideal for enjoying at breakfast to find the right motivation to get up, or as a snack to recharge your energy for the rest of the day, this soft chocolate and ricotta cake is also a great solution for recycling Easter eggs. Moreover, it is easy to make and does not require special tools... but we are sure you won't need an excuse to decide to prepare the ricotta and chocolate cake: so soft and delicious, it will quickly become the most requested by your family!
Discover also these delicious variations:

To prepare the ricotta and chocolate cake, first put the ricotta in a sieve and let it drain for at least 30 minutes to remove the excess whey . In the meantime, melt the butter in a saucepan and let it cool. Now separate the yolks from the whites into 2 bowls. Whip the egg whites with an electric mixer : you should get a soft and frothy consistency, not as firm as stiff peaks .
Set aside the egg whites and move on to the yolks: add the sugar and beat them with the electric mixer for about 10 minutes, until you get a light and fluffy mixture. At this point, pour in the melted and cooled butter and continue working to mix the ingredients. Turn off the mixer and sift the ricotta using a spatula .
Add the sifted ricotta to the batter , turn the mixer back on and pour in the milk slowly . Now gently fold in the egg whites, mixing with motions from bottom to top to avoid deflating the mixture .
Finally, sift the flour and baking powder . Add the dry ingredients to the mixture and blend well with the spatula ; you should get a compact but soft batter. Pour the batter into a 9-inch pan that you have previously buttered and floured .
Level the surface, then distribute coarsely chopped chocolate in the center . Gently press down with the back of a spoon to slightly sink the pieces of chocolate into the batter . Bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for about 30 minutes, placing the pan on the lowest rack (not in contact). After this time, move the pan to the middle rack and bake for another 10 minutes. Check the cooking with a toothpick, then take it out of the oven and let it cool before dusting your ricotta and chocolate cake with powdered sugar as desired !
The ricotta and chocolate cake can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
The step of draining the ricotta may not be necessary, depending on the type of ricotta used: if you buy ricotta from the counter, for example, which is usually characterized by a firmer texture, you can omit it?
If you wish, you can flavor the batter with the seeds of a vanilla pod, a pinch of ground cinnamon, or with the grated zest of an orange!

