name:
Fried mozzarella and anchovy skewers
ingredients:
Mozzarella cheese: 14oz(400 g)- (for pizza)
Long loaf sandwich bread: 3slices
Anchovies in oil: ½cup(120 g)
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
A good dinner with friends always starts with something tasty. For lovers of fried finger food and appetizing recipes to prepare on short notice, here is an ad hoc solution: fried mozzarella and anchovy skewers . A reinterpretation of the classic mozzarella in carrozza (fried mozzarella), it is transformed into inviting appetizers with double breading to seal the stringy and tasty filling of cheese and anchovies in oil. Find out how easy it is to prepare these delicious skewers and serve them together with other very quick-to-prepare appetizers, such as puff pastry bites or salmon bites. You will make your guests happy!
You might also like:
To prepare fried mozzarella and anchovy skewers , start by slicing the mozzarella for pizza . Then drain the anchovies in oil. Take a long slice of sandwich bread, lay the slices of mozzarella , trimming them to have a uniform layer .
Lay some anchovy fillets and cover with another slice of bread . Continue with slices of mozzarella and anchovy fillets .
Close with another slice of bread . Now you can skewer the shorter side with 4 skewers to obtain the first 4 skewers (8-9) and continue like this until everything has been used.
Pass the skewers first in milk , then in beaten eggs , and finally in breadcrumbs .
Proceed to the double breadcrumbs dipping once again the skewers already breaded first in eggs and then in breadcrumbs . Heat the peanut seed oil in a pan to 300° F (150° C). Fry a few pieces at a time to avoid overheating the oil.
Remove when they are golden : it will take a few minutes. Place them on absorbent paper to remove the excess oil and serve your fried mozzarella and anchovy skewers hot .
You should eat them as soon as they are ready.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer to use mozzarella fior di latte cheese, squeeze it well before using it in the recipe.

