name:
Watermelon caipiroska
ingredients:
Watermelon: 1.3cups(200 g)- blended pulp
Vodka: 7oz(200 g)- neat
Brown sugar: ½cup(120 g)
Lime: 2.8oz(80 g)
Lemon juice: 0.6cup(140 g)
Ice: 24- cubes

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Serving: 1
Cost: Average

instructions:
How many fruits does summer give us! Everyone has their favorite, but it seems there's one in particular that everyone agrees on: watermelon! A synonym of conviviality and joy, watermelon is the star of summer and is the inspiration for this cocktail we thought of offering you: watermelon caipiroska. A twist on the well-known strawberry caipiroska , this fresh and refreshing version will win you over! So whether you are on a beach around a bonfire while someone strums a guitar or you are on your home veranda, the watermelon caipiroska is the perfect cocktail to serve... especially directly from the watermelon!
To prepare the watermelon caipiroska, start by cutting off the two ends of the fruit. Be careful as one of the two will be the base of the container, so make a very narrow and precise cut . Then cut off the other part, make a larger cut, and keep the end . Using a spoon, scoop out the inside of the watermelon, gathering all the pieces of pulp in a bowl .
Carefully scoop out the inside, removing all seeds and any pulp filaments. If you prefer, use a slightly damp cloth to smooth the surfaces inside , then cover the bowl with plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator . Pour the scooped watermelon pulp into the juicer
and turn on the machine, placing a container underneath to collect the extracted juice . Weigh the mixture and add an equal amount of vodka . Take the watermelon and make an incision at a precise point with a sharp tool, like a melon baller or a blade .
This will be the entry hole for the small tap you will insert, so the hole should be made rather low . Insert the tap or spigot into the watermelon, making sure no pulp is stuck inside the spout, which you will remove if necessary . At this point, pour the watermelon juice mixed with vodka into your container with a tap .
Prepare the crushed base of the cocktail, then cut the limes in half. Use half a lime for each glass you prepare: cut the halves into 2 wedges and place them inside the tumblers . Add the brown sugar and crush with a muddler .
Pour the lemon juice into the glass and place the glass under the watermelon with watermelon juice and vodka and let it flow into the tumbler and then mix everything together .
To decorate the glasses, scoop out the inside of the end you cut off initially and carve out 3 small spheres for each glass , and on a wooden skewer, first place a lime slice and then the watermelon spheres . Finally, decorate your watermelon caipiroska with 6 ice cubes for each glass and the lime and watermelon spheres decoration !
You can prepare the base of the watermelon caipiroska in advance, obtaining the juice and mixing it with vodka; just store it in the refrigerator. The scooped-out watermelon, on the other hand, should be covered with plastic wrap. The rest needs to be prepared at the moment.

