name:
Wild berry strudel
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ⅓cup(150 g)
Eggs: ¼cup(55 g)- (approx. 1)
Water: 2tbsp(30 g)
Sunflower seed oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Blackberries: 5oz(150 g)
Blueberries: 6oz(180 g)
Raspberries: 4oz(120 g)
Brown sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(50 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + 1 hour for the mixture to rest

instructions:
Apple strudel is a simple and wholesome dessert from the Trentino-Alto Adige region that’s earned its place among Italy’s traditional recipes. The success of this crumbly roll of puff pastry filled with local ingredients has inspired a host of sweet and savory spin-offs. These include a colorful, down-to-earth vegetable strudel, cocoa strudel with a soft filling of cinnamon-scented pears, and shortcrust strudel. We’ve come up with another tempting version dedicated to lovers of fruit desserts: wild berry strudel . This tasty treat with a juicy center can be served as a dessert accompanied by a scoop of ice cream or a dollop of fresh cream, or it can be enjoyed as a special snack!
To make wild berry strudel , first start with the dough: Add the flour, salt, eggs , and water to a bowl , mix with a fork to absorb the liquid, and then add the oil a little at a time .
Continue mixing. Once all the ingredients are combined , transfer the dough to a pastry board and knead by hand to form an even little mound . Place the dough in a lightly greased bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and leave to rest for an hour in a cool place .
Meanwhile, turn to the filling: Place the washed berries in a bowl, add brown sugar , and mix. Take the ball of dough and place on a lightly floured cloth . Roll out to a thickness of a coin (1-2 mm) with a rolling pin .
Then roll out the dough again, gently stretching with the palm of your hands while taking care not to break the sheet. The resulting rectangle should measure approximately 16x20 inches (40x50 cm). Now brush the surface with melted butter and sprinkle one-third of the pastry with breadcrumbs .
Add the leftover bread crumbs to the berries and mix . Spread all the berries on the side of the pastry that you covered with breadcrumbs . Now use the tea towel to roll up the strudel from the short side of the rectangle .
Fold over the ends to seal , brush the surface with leftover melted butter , and make diagonal cuts across the top .
Bake in a conventional oven preheated to 370°F (190°C) for 30-35 minutes. Once cooked, take the strudel out of the oven , allow to cool, and then dust the surface with powdered sugar . Your wild berry strudel is ready to serve .
This wild berry strudel will keep for three days in the refrigerator. You can warm it slightly before serving. It can be frozen after baking if the ingredients you used were fresh, i.e. not defrosted.
Serve the strudel with some vanilla ice cream or a dollop of fresh whipped cream for extra indulgence.

