name:
Calamarata pasta with swordfish ragù
ingredients:
Calamarata pasta: 0.75lb(320 g)
Swordfish: 11(300 g)- steaks
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
White wine: 1 ¼tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 3bunches
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Cherry tomatoes: 1lb(400 g)
Capers in vinegar: 0.5oz(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
This calamarata pasta with swordfish ragu is a first-course dish with a real Mediterranean feel, prepared using a typical Neapolitan pasta variety called calamarata, whose name comes thanks to its similarity to the calamari rings it’s often dressed with. In the case of our recipe, the sauce is prepared using diced swordfish sautéed separately and fresh cherry tomatoes flavored with garlic and capers. This type of pasta is now very popular and readily available, but if you can’t find it, you can easily replace it with the paccheri or mezze maniche varieties.
To make this calamarata pasta with swordfish ragu , first wash the tomatoes, dry them, and cut them in half . Heat the oil in a frying pan with a whole clove of garlic , then pour in the cherry tomatoes .
Season with salt and pepper and stir to help the flavors develop, then add the capers , cover with a lid and continue cooking for 20 minutes over low heat.
In the meantime, prepare the swordfish, cutting it into slices if necessary, and removing the skin and dicing it . Heat a pan full of water, salted to taste, to cook the pasta in.
In another pan, heat some oil with a whole clove of garlic , add the swordfish, and leave to brown slightly . Deglaze with the white wine ,
remove the garlic clove , and season with salt and pepper . The water should have come to a boil by now, so you can cook the pasta .
After 20 minutes, remove the garlic clove from the cherry tomatoes and fish. Add the diced swordfish to the sauce , and as soon as the pasta is cooked, drain it and transfer to the pan .
Sauté everything for a few moments , add the chopped parsley , and stir again. Your calamarata pasta with swordfish ragu is ready to be dished up and served !
We recommend eating the pasta right away. Alternatively, you can keep it in the refrigerator for up to a day. Not recommended for freezing.
To add even more flavor to your dish, you might like to enhance the tomato sauce with anchovy fillets, or, for a fresh and fragrant touch, why not flavor your calamarata pasta with thyme or chopped fresh mint.

