name:
Watermelon pizza
ingredients:
Watermelon: 1slice
Berries: 9oz(250 g)- mixed
Edible flowers: 1.7oz(50 g)
Mint: to taste
Lime peel: to taste
Mango: 9oz(250 g)
Cream cheese: 1cup(250 g)
Honey: 1tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Ever imagined just how creative you can get with a slice of watermelon ? Now is the right time to remove it from the refrigerator, freshly bought from the market yesterday, so that together with us you can discover how to make a quick, colorful and fresh watermelon pizza ! Don't worry, you won't need to make any dough or meddle with strange ingredient pairings... the base will simply be a juicy and crisp watermelon slice! A surprising and scenic last minute summer dessert , with a creamy mango flavored decoration, garnished with wild berries and edible flowers. For a summer birthday, a beach party or as a dessert to end a summer meal, watermelon pizza is a summer dish that will liven up your holidays! We are sure you will enjoy seconds...and thirds, serving each and every slice of the fruit in this way!
You may also like:
To make watermelon pizza , start with the cream: peel a ripe mango and cut into slices around the pit . Now dice it ;
place the pulp in the mixer bowl and blend until smooth . Place the spreadable cheese in a bowl and sweeten with the honey ;
thoroughly mix the ingredients together , then add the blended mango pulp and continue stirring with a spatula to obtain a homogeneous mix .
Place the watermelon on a cutting board and cut a slice that is 0.8 inches thick , then into 8 wedges ; now add the cream .
Spread it evenly over the entire surface and decorate with the wild berries and edible flowers; be sure to distribute them evenly over each wedge . Grate some lime zest for an extra touch of freshness. Once garnished, delicately separate the slices and serve your fresh watermelon pizza right away !
Enjoy your watermelon pizza straight away; freezing it or storing it in the refrigerator is not recommended once prepared. You can prepare the cream in advance and store it in the refrigerator for no more than one day.
You can also use different seasonal fruits for your watermelon pizza topping, like melon, or peaches and figs. For a lighter version you can top the watermelon with Greek yogurt instead of spreadable cheese, even without adding mango pulp and honey!

