name:
Ramen
ingredients:
Noodles: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (fresh or dried)
Water: 12 ¾cups(3 l)
Kombu seaweed: 1
Pork belly: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Chicken: 2- whole carcasses
Fresh ginger: 2oz(60 g)
Fresh scallion: 1- the green part
Garlic: 1clove
Niboshi: 3
Katsuobushi: to taste
Tamari: 6.3cups(1.5 l)
Sake: 2.7cups(640 g)
Mirin: 2cups(480 g)
Fresh ginger: 2.1oz(60 g)
Garlic: 3cloves
Eggs: 8
Mirin: ½cup(130 g)
Soy sauce: ½cup(110 g)
Sake: 2oz(60 g)
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Star anise: 1
Ground pepper: 4
Yellow onions: 1
Lard: 2.8oz(80 g)
Nori seaweed: 8
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 5 h 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: High
Note + the marinating time of the egg and soaking of the kombu seaweed (at least 12 h)

instructions:
To prepare the ramen, start with the marinated eggs: cook the whole eggs in boiling water for 7 minutes . Meanwhile, prepare the marinade by pouring soy sauce, sake, and mirin into a bowl , then add the cinnamon stick .
Add the star anise and the peppercorns . After the cooking time has elapsed, drain the eggs and transfer them to a bowl with cold water .
Peel the eggs and immerse them in the marinade , then cover with a sheet of absorbent paper (not patterned) and marinate for at least 12 hours in the refrigerator.
Meanwhile, soak the kombu seaweed in a pot with 3 liters (12.68 cups) of water and leave it at room temperature for 12 hours . After this time, remove the seaweed with tongs and use the water for the broth.
Add the chicken carcasses and the pork belly , cover with the lid, and start cooking on high heat for about 15-20 minutes. At this point, remove the foam on the surface , then lower the heat and cook uncovered for about an hour and a half.
In the meantime, prepare the ingredients you will need for both the broth and the pork: peel and cut the ginger into chunks , then coarsely chop the green part of the scallion . Finally, peel the garlic cloves .
After an hour and a half, check that the pork is cooked by piercing it with a fork; if no blood comes out, you can remove it from the broth, which should continue to cook for another 3-4 hours . Transfer the pork to another pot and add the sake and the mirin .
Pour in the tamari , then add the ginger, scallion, and garlic . Cover with the lid and cook over low heat for 2 hours .
After this time, remove the pork belly and set it aside, keeping it warm, then filter the cooking liquid and set that aside as well .
When there is one hour left for the broth to finish cooking, add the ginger, scallion, and garlic . Also, add the niboshi and continue to cook the broth. Once the cooking time is over, turn off the heat and add a handful of katsuobushi .
Cover with the lid and let it infuse for 15 minutes. Then strain the broth with a fine strainer and keep it warm .
Finally, prepare the ingredients to assemble the dish: finely chop an onion , briefly immerse it in cold water , and drain it well, then thinly slice the green part of the scallion .
Slice the pork into thin pieces . Meanwhile, melt the lard in a small saucepan and bring a pot of unsalted water to a boil to cook the noodles. Start assembling the bowls by pouring a tablespoon of lard into each one .
Add 2 ladles of the pork cooking liquid and a ladle of broth . Drop the noodles into the boiling water and cook them for 30 seconds.
Drain the noodles very well and place them in the bowls, arranging them with tongs . Lay 2 slices of pork and the marinated egg cut in half lengthwise .
Finish with a bit of chopped onion and scallion , a piece of nori seaweed, and a grind of pepper. Your ramen is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the ramen immediately.
The broth can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
There are many variations of ramen, from traditional to more modern ones: try the recipe for Chicken Ramen or Fake veg ramen !
Casa Ramen was born in 2013 in Milan, from the passion of Luca Catalfamo, owner and chef, interpreter of Japanese ramen in its classic version and beyond. An Italian who expertly cooks one of the most typical Japanese culinary expressions? Yes! In his establishment, he does it in the most typical way of Japanese "ramen houses", with few seats and a menu dedicated to this specialty with other small tastings. Thanks to his skill, passion, and technique, he has told us how to prepare it at home and how to enjoy it to the fullest!

