name:
Paccheri pasta with calamari
ingredients:
Calamari (squid): 1.1lbs(500 g)- (cleaned)
Paccheri pasta: 11oz(320 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 7oz(200 g)
Tomato purée: ¾cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
White wine: 3tbsp(50 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Garlic: 3cloves
Parsley: 2tbsp
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
A tempting aroma is coming from the kitchen: You can smell the flavor of the sea wafting from the squid rings cooked in a delicious tomato sauce, coupled with the fresh and aromatic tang of freshly chopped parsley. Paccheri pasta with calamari what a treat! This is an ideal first course for a quick dinner when you’re aiming for something healthy and genuine! This pasta shape is typical of Campania and soaks up sauces, especially tomato-based or tasty sauces such as artichoke and bacon, turning even the simplest dishes into mouthwatering delicacies. Fragrant, colorful, and tasty, this paccheri pasta with calamari doesn’t need any other accompaniment.
To prepare the paccheri pasta with calamari , place a pan with plenty of water to cook the pasta on the stove. Once it’s boiling, add salt to taste. Then start cleaning the calamari. Cut the tentacles away from the rest of the squid and make rings approximately ½ inch (1.5 cm) thick . Then cut the cherry tomatoes in half and set aside . Lastly, slice the chili pepper thinly and remove the stalk .
Crush the garlic cloves (you can also use whole peeled cloves and remove them after cooking) in a pan with a little oil and let them sweat with the chili pepper for a few minutes over low heat. Add the squid rings with the tentacles and cook over high heat for just 1 minute , so that the squid does not become too tough.
Pour in the white wine and allow it to simmer for a few minutes so that it evaporates. Add the cherry tomatoes and the tomato puree .
Mix and let everything cook over low heat for 5-6 minutes. In the meantime, pour the paccheri pasta into salted boiling water and then drain halfway through cooking (reserving some of the cooking water) and pour straight into the pan with the sauce .
You will need a few ladlefuls of the reserved pasta cooking water to finish cooking the pasta ; pour in a little at a time as needed and stir frequently. In the meantime, finely chop the parsley and sprinkle it over the paccheri once cooked. Everything is ready, your paccheri pasta with calamari can be eaten piping hot!
You can store the paccheri pasta with calamari for up to one day. Keep in a glass container and cover with plastic wrap. If you prefer, you can prepare the sauce in advance and then cook the pasta.
Not suitable for freezing.
Paccheri pasta with calamari is irresistible with the cherry tomatoes and tomato passata, but if you want to tempt your tastebuds even more, try a tomato-free version. Use fish broth instead of the pasta cooking water.

