name:
Savory eggplant pastry
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8oz(230 g)- (sheet)
Eggplant: 14oz(400 g)- (long)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 9oz(250 g)- (mild)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1cup(100 g)
Sun-dried tomatoes in oil: 3.5oz(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Savory pastries are a wonderful invention! Versatile and easy to make, they’re a great way to use up whatever you have in the fridge if you run out of ideas or ingredients, and can also be made in advance. These are just some of the many reasons that we’re sure you're going to love this dish, a tasty rustic pastry that can be served as a delicious appetizer or as a main course with vegetables. A quick scan of the ingredients list will be enough to make your mouth water: eggplant and sun-dried tomatoes are a winning, tried-and-tested combination, and the addition of scamorza and Parmigiano Reggiano cheeses only heightens the appeal of this deliciously appetizing match made in heaven! Whether you make your own puff pastry or use a ready-made one, and whether you follow our recipe to the letter or customize it as you please, this savory eggplant pastry is sure to be a hit, no matter what! Take advantage of the warm summer months to try another mouth-watering dish in the form of our rich and tasty zucchini pastry, and, in the fall, our savory mushroom pastry is a must!
To prepare the savory eggplant pastry , first wash the eggplants and trim the ends, then cut them into circular slices around ¼ inch (4 mm) thick using a mandoline or a knife. Cut the scamorza into relatively thin slices and roughly chop the dried tomatoes using a knife .
Take a cake pan measuring 12x8 inches (30x20 cm) and grease with oil . Gently unroll the puff pastry, separate it from the parchment paper, and lay it on top of the pan , then pierce it with the prongs of a fork .
Add half of the eggplant slices to form the first layer, overlapping them slightly so as not to leave any gaps . Season with salt and pepper, add half of the sun-dried tomatoes and distribute them evenly over the eggplant. Spread half of the grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese over the dried tomatoes ,
and finally cover with half of the sliced scamorza cheese . Repeat the layers, adding the remaining slices of eggplant , salt and pepper, the sun-dried tomatoes ,
grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese , and the scamorza slices. Fold the edges of the puff pastry inwards , and bake in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for around 40 minutes or until the surface is nicely golden . Your savory eggplant pastry is ready to serve piping hot!
This savory eggplant pastry can be stored in the refrigerator, covered with plastic wrap or in an airtight container, for 2-3 days. If you used fresh ingredients, you can freeze the savory pastry either before or after cooking; if freezing before cooking, bake straight from frozen and extend the cooking time by around 10 minutes.
As is the case with any pastry worthy of the name, you can vary the ingredients according to your tastes or needs, maybe adding a layer of sliced ham or using your favorite type of cheese!

