name:
Strozzapreti pasta with octopus sauce
ingredients:
Strozzapreti pasta: 0.5lb(250 g)
Celery: 1cup(40 g)
Carrots: ¾cup(40 g)
Onions: ¾cup(40 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Cherry tomatoes: 7oz(200 g)
Tomato purée: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Octopus: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Juniper berries: 4
Pink peppercorn: 2tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Strozzapreti pasta with octopus sauce is a flavorful seafood first course that’s great on its own or as the main course for a fish-based lunch or dinner. Get yourself a really fresh octopus and use it to make the sauce we’ve got for you today, with an aroma that will take you straight to the beach. The softness of the octopus pairs perfectly with the tomato passata delicately scented with the thyme, which will combine with this special fresh pasta to release unique flavors. Strozzapreti pasta with octopus sauce is a totally Mediterranean recipe inspired by classic octopus stew, since fishing and eating octopus is so common around this sea.
To make the strozzapreti with octopus sauce , start by preparing the octopus by cleaning it (for details, see our cooking tutorial: How to clean octopus) and heating up a pot full of salted water. Identify the octopus’ beak and, using a small knife with a sharp blade, make an incision around it so that it you can scoop it out . Next, remove the eyes by cutting across the front of the head . Then rinse the octopus well under plenty of fresh water, taking care to rub all over its skin, including the tentacles, using your hands, to remove the sticky part .
By now, the water in the pot will be boiling: Holding the octopus by the head, dip the tentacles into the boiling water. Repeat this step 4-5 times ; this way, the tentacles will curl up and make your dish look nicer. Next, immerse the octopus completely. Add the bay leaf, juniper berries, garlic clove (slightly crushed), and the pink peppercorns , and cover with a lid. Leave to cook over medium heat for 35-40 minutes. When it’s almost done, you can check the consistency and doneness of the octopus using a toothpick or the prongs of a fork. Once cooked, drain using a skimmer .
Transfer to a strainer to drain the excess water and let it cool . Place it carefully on a chopping board and cut it in half to make it easier to prepare . Cut the ends off the tentacles to keep the curled shape, then chop the rest of the tentacles into equal-sized pieces . Set the chopped octopus aside.
Next, prepare the other ingredients for the octopus sauce. Wash the cherry tomatoes well and cut into four wedges , then set aside. Then finely dice the celery, carrot, and onion, peel the garlic and cut in half . In a non-stick pan with high sides, brown the garlic in the oil . Once the garlic has turned golden, take it out.
Now brown the celery, carrot, and onion . Stir the ingredients to keep them from sticking to the pan. Add the chopped octopus and cook for 2-3 minutes over moderate heat. Be sure to keep stirring to keep everything from sticking. Next, add the cherry tomatoes .
Also add the tomato puree and leave to cook over very low heat for 10-15 minutes. In the meantime, boil the pasta in a pot full of salted water . By the time the pasta is done, the octopus sauce will be ready, too . Season with salt and pepper to taste.
Drain the al dente pasta and pour straight into the pot with the sauce , mixing everything well so the pasta absorbs the sauce . Finally, plate up your strozzapreti pasta with octopus sauce , decorating if you like with the curled tentacle pieces and fresh parsley!
The strozzapreti pasta with octopus sauce is excellent when eaten still hot. You can keep any leftovers in the fridge in an airtight container for up to one day.
Not suitable for freezing.
The secret for getting this dish to turn out perfectly? It’s in cooking the octopus! Be careful not to overcook it, because it could turn chewy. Check the doneness using a toothpick or the prongs of a fork; that way you’ll serve an octopus that’s cooked to perfection!
Want a hint of heat? Add some chili to give your strozzapreti an extra kick!

