name:
Blackberry pie
ingredients:
Powdered sugar: ¾cup(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(250 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Butter: ½cup(125 g)- cold
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Blackberries: 14oz(400 g)
Brown sugar: ⅓cup(75 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes resting time for the pie dough and 4 hours for the blackberries to steep (or overnight)

instructions:
Blackberries are delicious, plump fruits with a sweet, tart flavor, so tempting that we’re willing to brave their brambles to pick them on summer mornings. But what can you make with pulpy blackberries? A delicious jelly to spread on toast, or one of many fabulous desserts, maybe combining them with apples in a gluten-free cake, or using them alone in a dreamy tart... This blackberry pie has a fragrant lemon-flavored crust and a sweet, juicy blackberry filling, making it perfect for a snack or as a dessert at the end of a meal and guaranteed to be an immediate hit with adults and children alike. Simply choose the ripest fruits, leave them to soften even further in the marinade, and turn on the oven to allow the delicious aromas of this simple dessert to waft through the whole house!
To make the blackberry pie , start by pouring the blackberries into a bowl, and add the brown sugar and the grated zest of half a lemon . Stir with a spoon , cover with plastic wrap, and leave the blackberries to steep at room temperature for at least 4 hours (or overnight, if you prefer).
Now prepare the pie crust: Place the sifted flour, a pinch of salt, and the cold butter, cut into small pieces , in a food processor and blitz briefly to get a sand-like consistency . Transfer your pastry mixture to a work surface (or even a bowl) and add the sifted powdered sugar and the grated zest of half a lemon .
Create a well in the middle of the mixture and pour in the two egg yolks . Next, start mixing everything together, first with a fork, then, once the eggs have absorbed the dry ingredients, continue by hand . Knead briefly for just long enough to blend the dough so that the pastry doesn’t get too hot with the heat of your hands and remains crumbly. Shape the pastry into a rectangle, flatten it and wrap it in plastic wrap , then place it in the refrigerator to firm up for at least 30 minutes.
Once the blackberries have steeped for the required period of time, drain them using a strainer, collecting the liquid in the bowl . Take the pastry and remove two-thirds of it, returning the rest of it to the fridge, again wrapped in plastic wrap. Dust the work surface with a small amount of flour and roll out the pastry with a rolling pin to form a disc around ¼” (½ cm) thick. Next, roll the pastry around the rolling pin and unroll it onto a 7” (18 cm) scalloped-edged cake pan (you can use a normal pie mold since you won’t need to grease it anyway) .
Gently press the bottom and edges of the dough into the mold and cut away any excess dough by running the rolling pin over the edge of the pan . Prick the bottom of the pie with the prongs of a fork .
Fill the pie base with the drained blackberries and distribute evenly . Now take the remaining pastry and roll it out between two sheets of parchment paper , then remove one of the sheets and use the other to transfer the pastry onto the filling to cover it completely.
Seal tightly at the edges and remove the excess pastry . Prick the surface with the prongs of a fork . Bake the pie on the bottom rack of a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (175°C) for 35 minutes. After this time, place the pie on the middle rack and continue cooking for another 5 minutes to lightly brown the surface. Once cooked, leave the pie to cool completely before serving .
This blackberry pie can be stored in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for 2-3 days.
The inside may lose a little of its consistency, but you can try freezing your pie once it’s cooked and has cooled completely.
You can freeze the pastry alone for around a month.
For a more lavish pie, try adding blueberries and raspberries to the filling.
What about the marinade from the blackberries? Why not make a delicious drink by pouring it into a jar, adding some apple juice and blending before serving!

