name:
Cheesy potato and zucchini balls
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1lb(500 g)
Zucchini: 7oz(200 g)
Smoked provola cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅔cup(70 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ⅓cup(40 g)
Breadcrumbs: ¼cup(30 g)
Eggs: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Soft on the inside and crispy on the outside: These are the characteristics of these cheesy potato and zucchini balls , tasty finger food that will get snapped up in just one bite. These delectable little balls are made using a simple dough based on puréed potatoes and grated zucchini; the expertly balanced addition of egg, flour, and breadcrumbs will create a dense mixture that you’ll be able to shape like classic homemade meatballs. And into the middle goes a flavor-filled cube of smoked provola cheese, which, after cooking, will turn into an irresistibly gooey filling that creates a string when you pull it apart. Jazz up your selection of aperitivo snacks with these delicious little balls that are sure to please everyone!
To make the cheesy potato and zucchini balls , first boil the potatoes with the skins on for 30-40 minutes depending on their size. You’ll know when they’re done as they’ll be soft enough for the prongs of a fork to slide in easily. Once they’re ready, press them through a potato ricer to form a purée . You don’t need to peel them because the skins will stay in the ricer. Now, wash and dry the zucchini, then trim them and grate them using a fine grater . Squeeze the zucchini well to get all the liquid out.
Place the potato purée and grated zucchini together in a bowl , stir to combine , and then add the flour ,
the grated Parmigiano cheese , and the breadcrumbs . Also add the egg , season with salt,
and mix together to form an even, fairly dense dough . Now cut the provola cheese into cubes and set aside . Wet your hands slightly and take a small portion of the dough about the size of a walnut, shape it into a ball, and then create an indentation with your thumb.
Place a cube of provola in this indentation, then close up the ball by pressing gently with your fingers . As you make the balls, arrange them in a baking dish .
Roll the balls in breadcrumbs and arrange them on a tray . Now they’re ready to be cooked: Heat the peanut oil in a pot, and once it’s reached 285°F (140°C) (check this using a food thermometer), immerse the balls a few at a time (doing too many at once will cause the oil temperature to drop).
Cook the balls for 3 minutes or until they turn golden, then remove them from the oil using a skimmer and arrange them on a tray lined with paper towel to absorb any excess oil . Serve the cheesy potato and zucchini balls piping hot .
We recommend eating the cheesy fried potato and zucchini balls right away.
You can also use other types of soft cheese for the gooey filling, such as scamorza or caciocavallo.

