name:
Baked stuffed squid
ingredients:
Squid: 1.25lbs(600 g)
Potatoes: 7oz(200 g)
Bread: 3oz(90 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(90 g)
Fresh scallion: 1
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1 ½tbsp(10 g)
Marjoram: to taste
Fresh turmeric: 1 ¼tbsp(9 g)
Eggs: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: 
Natural plain yogurt: ½cup(130 g)
Whipping cream: 2tsp(10 g)
Dill: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Totani , or European squid, are sometimes considered the poor man’s calamari, and the two are, in fact, often confused, but we know exactly how they differ in terms of shape and color, among other things. When it comes to using them for cooking, however, the two are pretty much interchangeable. So, following on from our delicious stuffed calamari recipe , we thought we’d put together a recipe for stuffing their marine cousins, too, giving us today’s recipe for totani ripieni – baked stuffed squid . An appetizing combination of potatoes, soaked bread, and fresh turmeric makes the perfect hearty, soft filling for the squid, accompanied by the freshness of a yogurt cream to give this fish main course that extra dimension!
To prepare the stuffed squid , start with the potatoes. Place them in a saucepan with cold water and cook for around 20-30 minutes from boiling (you can speed up the cooking process by using a pressure cooker) . Once they’re ready (make sure they can be pierced easily with a fork), allow them to cool, then peel and set aside. Next, remove the crust from the bread, cut the bread into chunks , and soak the chunks in the milk .
Clean the squid by removing the head (4-5) and the side “wings” with a knife. Rinse the squid thoroughly, both outside and inside , to remove any impurities.
Chop up the wings and the tentacles , and finely chop the scallion, having removed the green part and the roots beforehand, along with the marjoram leaves . Heat the extra virgin olive oil in a pan, add the chopped scallion and marjoram , and fry over low heat, stirring occasionally, for a few minutes.
Then add the chopped wings and tentacles and cook over high heat for a few moments , ensuring that the water released from the squid evaporates completely .
At this point, you need to start preparing the filling. Mash the now-cold potatoes in a large bowl and add the soaked bread , the chopped squid and scallion ,
the grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese , the peeled fresh turmeric grating it directly into the bowl , the salt, the pepper, and the whole egg .
Mix thoroughly , and once all of the ingredients are combined, transfer the mixture to a disposable pastry bag . Preheat a conventional oven to 350°F (180°C), then grease the bottom of a small baking dish (that will hold 4 stuffed squid), stuff the squid to the top with the filling ,
and lay them side by side in the dish . Season with salt and pepper to taste and finish with a drizzle of oil. Bake in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for approximately 30 minutes. While the squid are baking, turn your attention to the accompanying sauce. Pour the yogurt and cream into a small bowl, add a drizzle of oil
and the dill , and mix well. Once the squid are cooked, take them out of the oven and serve each baked stuffed squid with the accompanying sauce .
Once cooked and cooled, you can store the stuffed squid for 1 day in the refrigerator.
You can store the filling for the squid in an airtight container for up to 12 hours.
Once cooked and cooled, your stuffed squids can be frozen if you used fresh rather than defrosted ingredients.
Too much filling left over? Don’t worry‚ it’s great for making the tasty Duchess potatoes you’ll find on our website! Simply form small rosettes that you’ll then cook on a sheet pan lined with parchment paper at 350°F (180°C) for around 15 minutes.
The fresh turmeric can also be swapped for powdered turmeric, as long as you reduce the amount you use (use about ½ tsp (3 g), or a couple of pinches).
The filling for the squid is very soft, so if you’d like to slice them it’s best to let them cool slightly first and use a sharp knife.
If you prefer a more compact dough, simply add around 2½ tbsp (20 g) of breadcrumbs!

