name:
Spaghetti aglio e olio (Spaghetti with garlic, oil and chili pepper)
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 11.3oz(320 g)
Garlic: 3cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 3
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.65cup(70 g)- (high quality)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
When we talk about quick to make first courses, what comes to mind? Cacio e pepe pasta , pasta with tuna or a flavorful pasta alla gricia ! But there is an even faster dish to make when you do not have anything available in the kitchen except a few ingredients: garlic, oil and chili pepper spaghetti . It is a perfect dinner or lunch saver with only four ingredients: pasta, oil, garlic and chili peppers! The secret to success? First and foremost, the choice of ingredients, especially extra virgin olive oil. Then there is the cooking technique, which involves frying garlic and chili peppers, being very careful not to burn them and compromise the final taste. There are those who prefer dried chili peppers, those who remove the seeds to reduce the hotness, those who use the garlic whole to remove it more easily, or those who even mince it because they have no problem eating it all. How do you make it? While you are thinking about your favorite version, we invite you to taste our recipe for garlic, oil and chili pepper spaghetti !
To prepare the garlic, oil and chili pepper spaghetti , start by cooking the pasta in boiling salted water . Cook the spaghetti al dente, and in the meantime prepare the seasoning: peel the garlic cloves, divide them in half and remove the core (the green central part of each clove) .
Cut the cloves into rather thin slices . Take the fresh chili peppers, and slice them removing the center. If you prefer less spiciness, you can open them lengthwise and remove the seeds before slicing them. Now pour the oil into a large pan .
Place the pan over very low heat and add the sliced garlic and chili pepper s . Continue to fry over very low heat; the chili and garlic should not burn, and should only fry for a couple of minutes .
F or even browning without the risk of burning , you can tilt the pan to gather the oil , garlic and chili peppers in one area and allow them to brown evenly . Once the pasta is cooked al dente, you can transfer it directly into the pan and add a ladle of cooking water .
Stir for a few moments to combine the flavors and sauté , then you can plate your garlic, oil and chili pepper spaghetti (14-15) and serve very hot!
We recommend enjoying the garlic, oil and chili pepper spaghetti immediately and very hot!
If you prefer, you can add chopped parsley at the very end!
For those who do not like strong spicy notes, you can remove the seeds from the fresh or dried chili pepper before using it in the recipe. For the more daring, garlic can also be chopped instead of sliced, or left whole to remove it more easily.
This recipe has only three ingredients as flavoring and is an "honest" dish that gives back exactly what you give it. For this reason, we recommend using high quality extra virgin olive oil.

