name:
Angelica brioche with zucchini
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1 ½cup(185 g)
Water: ½cup(100 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tbsp(10 g)
Type 00 flour: 3 ½cups(400 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(125 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Fine salt: ¾tsp(15 g)
Sugar: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Zucchini: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 5oz(150 g)
Almond flakes: 3.5oz(100 g)
Shallot: 1
Thyme: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Water: ½cup(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average
Note + leavening and rest times (approx. 3½ h)

instructions:
Angelica brioche with zucchini is a show-stopping soft, savory, leavened brioche. It is inspired by the iconic Italian Angelica cake recipe, which is stuffed with chocolate chips, and topped with a sweet glaze! In this savory version, the chocolate chips are replaced by soft zucchini, tasty caciocavallo cheese, and crunchy slivers of toasted almonds. The method and the final wreath construction are unchanged, and you will get the same show-stopping effect… a savory cake that is a feast for the eyes! Angelica brioche with zucchini is perfect to serve as an appetizer with pride of place on your table, or to take on a picnic: it is excellent whether eaten hot or at room temperature. Try it in our mignon version, or with beer!
To make Angelica brioche with zucchini , firstly make a pre-ferment or biga: dissolve the brewer’s yeast in the water , transfer it to a bowl containing the flour and begin to knead with your hands .
Transfer the mixture to a work surface, shape into a ball and put back into the bowl . Cover with plastic wrap and leave to rise for an hour at 80°F (26°C) or in an unheated oven with the light on. Once it has doubled in size , you can make the dough.
Pour the flour and milk into the bowl of a planetary mixer fitted with a dough hook attachment, then add the sugar and pre-ferment and start to knead everything.
As soon as the mixture is uniform, start to add the softened butter, a small piece at a time . Knead until everything is completely absorbed , then add the salt. Transfer the dough to a work surface and knead for a few seconds by hand ,
then form a ball and place it in a bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and leave to rise for 2 hours at room temperature or in an unheated oven with the light on. Meanwhile, make the filling: peel the shallot and cut into thin slices . Top and tail the zucchini and make the first cut lengthwise ,
then slice them into half-moons . Pour a little oil into a pan, add the shallot, and allow to soften. Then add the zucchini and season with salt and pepper .
Add the thyme and cook for about 10 minutes . In the meantime, grate the caciocavallo cheese and toast the almond flakes in a saucepan .
As soon as the dough has risen , transfer it to the work surface and roll it out with a rolling pin to a 20x14 inch (50x35 cm) rectangle that is approximately 0.15 inch (4 mm) thick .
Cover the entire surface with the zucchini, grated cheese , and almond flakes . Roll up, starting from the long side and taking care not to let the filling emerge. Seal the edges well and leave to set in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
Then take the roll out of the fridge and cut it in half lengthways from end to end using a sharp knife . Pinch the two pieces together at one end to join ,
then braid the two strands, keeping the cut side uppermost so that the filling is visible . Lastly, join both ends to form a wreath and transfer it gently to a baking pan lined with parchment paper. Emulsify the water and oil with a whisk
and brush the surface of the Angelica brioche . Cook in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for 60 minutes on the lowest shelf, placing another shelf on top to prevent the brioche from browning too much. Take out of the oven and leave your savory Angelica brioche with zucchini to cool before serving !
Store the Angelica brioche with zucchini for up to 1-2 days at room temperature covered with a cake dome or plastic wrap. If you prefer, you can heat it before serving. It can be frozen after cooking it and allowing it to cool completely.
You can use other types of cheese or add cubes of bacon or ham!

