name:
Rice salad
ingredients:
Arborio rice: 1 ½cup(320 g)
Tuna in oil: 7.1oz(200 g)- (drained weight)
Datterino tomatoes: 1cup(150 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 3.5oz(100 g)- diced
Peas: ½cup(80 g)
Red peppers: ½cup(75 g)
Yellow peppers: 2.6oz(75 g)
Black olives: ½cup(80 g)- pitted
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Rice salad is the quintessential summer dish: fresh, light, and full of tantalizing toppings to customize according to your own taste... as long as they are colorful, flavorful, and above all, seasonal!
Easy and quick to make, rice salad can be prepared in advance and stored in the refrigerator until it's time to serve. The perfect solution for having dinner ready at home, but also for a picnic, a meal at the beach, or a packed lunch at the office!
Thanks to its extreme versatility, you can have fun creating new variations using the ingredients you have available, as long as they are all strictly cut into small cubes. So tasty and cheerful, rice salad is perfect for whetting the appetite of both young and old, even during the hottest days... this is our version with ham , peas , cherry tomatoes , peppers , tuna , olives , and basil ! And how do you make it?
Discover other delicious rice salad recipes, such as:
And if you love cold dishes, also try barley salad , Spelt salad with vegetables , or bulgur salad !
To prepare the rice salad, first bring a pot of lightly salted water to a boil and blanch the peas for one minute . Drain the peas in ice water and then transfer them to a large bowl .
Pour the rice into the same water as the peas and cook for 14-15 minutes . Drain the rice, spread it out on a baking sheet , and season with a drizzle of oil .
Mix well and let it cool . In the meantime, prepare the dressing: remove the top from the peppers and eliminate the seeds and internal filaments .
Cut both the red pepper and the yellow one into one-centimeter cubes .
Also, cut the scamorza cheese into one-centimeter cubes . Finally, cut the cherry tomatoes into quarters. You can now assemble your rice salad: add the yellow pepper and the red pepper to the bowl with the peas.
Add the scamorza cheese , diced cooked ham , and cherry tomatoes .
Enrich the dressing with chopped pitted black olives , hand-crushed tuna in oil , and fresh basil leaves .
Pour the now-cold rice into the bowl and mix everything well , then season with a pinch of salt .
Drizzle with more oil , mix one last time , and your rice salad is ready to be served !
Rice salad can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days.
It cannot be frozen.
You can customize the rice salad with your favorite ingredients or those you have on hand: for instance, you can replace the scamorza with buffalo mozzarella balls, the cooked ham with grilled and sliced sausages, or you can add hard-boiled eggs cut in half.
Scent the rice salad with lemon zest and juice for a touch of acidity and freshness, or add a couple of tablespoons of mayonnaise for a creamier texture.
If you prefer to replace the rice with grains, try these tasty recipes: barley salad , Spelt salad with vegetables , and bulgur salad !

