name:
Apple fritters
ingredients:
Green apples: 1.25lbs(580 g)
Lemon juice: 1
Type 00 flour: 0.3cup(150 g)
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)
Eggs: 2
Baking powder: ½tbsp(8 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Vegetable oil: to taste
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Cinnamon powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
If there’s one traditional product from the Trentino-Alto Adige region that stands out, it’s apples. Grown all along the valleys, they dot the landscape with their different colors. In this recipe, we’ve sliced them and dipped them in a creamy batter to create some delicious apple fritters ! The result? Fragrant fritters that are soft and juicy on the inside, flavored with the elegant, spiced note of the cinnamon. Perfect for serving as a snack or dessert, apple fritters go great with savory dishes too, especially those based around pork. Quick and easy to prepare, you’ll only a few simple ingredients including flour, milk, eggs, and sugar, although be sure to try the version with ricotta or even a more exotic one with pineapple. For those with a serious sweet tooth, on the other hand, we suggest having the apple fritters along with some pastry cream, chocolate, or whipped cream... an explosion of delicious sweetness!
Check out these recipes too:
To make the apple fritters , start with the batter: Whisk two whole eggs in a bowl, then add the milk and a pinch of salt . Next, sift the flour into the bowl .
Sift the baking powder into the bowl too , and then whisk everything together thoroughly by hand until you get a uniform mixture without any lumps .
Once the batter is ready , set aside. Juice one lemon, which you’ll use to keep the apple slices from getting discolored. Now, peel the apples using a vegetable peeler to remove as little flesh as possible .
Remove the core using an apple corer . You can also cut the apples in half to remove the core more easily if you don’t have a corer. Cut the apple into slices around ¼ inch (5 mm) thick and lay them one on top of another in a large, shallow container .
Sprinkle the apple slices with the lemon juice so they don’t get discolored . Now, turn to the frying: Pour the oil into a large pot and, using a kitchen thermometer, bring the oil to around 340°F (170°F) without going above this temperature. At this point, you can dip a slice of apple into the batter , making sure to cover the whole slice completely, and fry it in the hot oil .
Only fry up to two slices at a time to ensure the oil stays hot. You can turn the apple fritters while they’re cooking using a slotted spoon, to get them to brown evenly . As they’re ready, arrange them on a tray lined with paper towel to remove the excess oil . In a bowl, combine 2½ tbsp (30 g) of sugar with cinnamon powder to taste .
Mix together and then sprinkle the fritters with the flavored sugar . Your apple fritters are ready to eat, still hot or warm !
We recommend eating the apple fritters within a short time to better savor their fragrance. They can be served cold, too. Long storage in the fridge is not advised because the batter tends to get moist.
Not suitable for freezing.
We’ve chosen green apples for the contrast between the tart and sweet notes in the recipe, but you can use whichever variety of apple you’d like! You can sprinkle the apple fritters with powdered sugar instead of granulated sugar, once they’ve cooled.

