name:
Breaded zucchini and scamorza patties
ingredients:
Zucchini: 1lb(450 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1.75oz(50 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: ¼cup(30 g)- (grated)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Eggs: 2
Breadcrumbs: 2 ½cups(300 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + resting time in the fridge (at least 1 hr)

instructions:
Breaded zucchini and scamorza patties make for a delicious vegetarian second course that can’t be missing from your table in summertime, maybe alongside the eggplant version , too! So, what’s the secret? The scamorza cheese that gives the classic breaded zucchini a special touch by making the patties softer and more flavorful. The crispy golden breading will have your mouth watering as soon as you see it. This recipe, so delectable and quick to make, is also perfect as an aperitif or snack to enjoy in good company. Breaded zucchini and scamorza patties are also the ideal treat to take with you on a picnic!
To make the breaded zucchini and scamorza patties , start by washing and trimming the zucchini. Grate them using a medium-hole grater and then place in a strainer over a large bowl so they lose their vegetable water. Now, grate the scamorza .
Press the zucchini lightly to squeeze out the water , then transfer the drained zucchini to a bowl. Add the grated scamorza and nutmeg and season with salt and pepper to taste. Add the breadcrumbs
and grated Grana Padano to the mixture and knead with your hands to combine all of the ingredients well .
Cut some parchment paper into squares of around 4¾ inches (12 cm) and arrange on a tray. Take around 3.5 oz (100 g) of dough and place inside a 4-inch (10 cm) food ring mold on one of the parchment paper squares. Press the dough down with the back of a teaspoon to form a patty . Gently remove the food ring mold .
Repeat to form 6 breaded zucchini and scamorza patties . Leave the patties in the fridge for at least 1 hour. For the breading, dip the patties in a beaten egg . Next, dredge them in the breadcrumbs , making sure the breadcrumbs stick well and evenly across the entire surface.
The patties are ready for cooking : Heat a ¼-inch (5-mm) layer of oil in a pan and place the patties in carefully, one at a time . Cook the patties over medium heat on both sides, turning them over just once when they’ve turned crispy and golden.
Once cooked , drain the patties on a tray lined with paper towel . Enjoy the breaded zucchini and scamorza patties piping hot !
It’s best to serve the breaded zucchini and scamorza patties when they’re freshly cooked. After cooking, they can be stored in the fridge for 1-2 days in an airtight container. They can also be prepared a day in advance without breading them. Not suitable for freezing.
You can use other types of cheese to make the patties, such as, for example, Fontina, aged Montasio, or Gruyere.

