name:
Amalfi-style stuffed calamari
ingredients:
Calamari (squid): 4- (5 oz each)
Zucchini: 1- medium
Potatoes: 1
Black olives: ¼cup(40 g)- pitted
Salted capers: 1 ¾tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
White wine: 0.6cup(150 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ¼cup(30 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Cherry tomatoes: 6.5oz(180 g)
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Some say that this recipe originates from Amalfi and the surrounding areas, while others maintain that the name simply represents the Mediterranean flavors that it features. The one certainty is that Amalfi-style stuffed calamari is a tasty fish main course that is perfect for any occasion. We’ve already made stuffed squid in various forms, including with couscous, Andalusian-style with onions and saffron, and with escarole, all succulent variations that have proven to be big hits, and this new recipe is no different. A soft and delicate mixture of potatoes, zucchini, capers, olives, and lemon zest makes the perfect filling for this extremely versatile mollusk. Be sure to have a few slices of bread on hand, too, because you won’t be able to resist mopping up the cooking juice!
To prepare the Amalfi-style stuffed calamari , start by boiling the potatoes in a saucepan with plenty of water. Once they start to boil, cook for 30-50 minutes, depending on the size. Remember to test them with a fork, and if the prongs slide in easily then they’re cooked . In the meantime, clean the squid. Remove the quill and tuft of tentacles so you can remove the insides as well ,
then remove the skin and proceed to wash thoroughly. Finely chop the tentacles and turn to the stove. Put a saucepan over heat, add a drop of oil and the grated garlic, and fry over low heat for a minute, stirring as you do so .
Turn up the heat a little and add the chopped tentacles . Fry them until they are nicely colored, then add 3 tbsp (50 g) of white wine and simmer. Wait for the alcohol to evaporate, then drain the tentacles before setting them aside in a bowl .
Wash, dry, and trim the zucchini , slice them about ¼ inch (4-5 mm) thick and then cut them first into batons and then into cubes of the same size .
Next, chop the black olives and prepare the filling. The potatoes should be cooked by this point. Peel and mash them with a potato masher directly into the bowl with the squid tentacles . Add the desalted capers ,
the chopped olives , the zucchini cubes , the Parmigiano Reggiano cheese, and some chopped parsley .
Then, grate the lemon zest , add salt and pepper to taste, and mix well . Transfer the mixture into a pastry bag, or use a teaspoon, and start stuffing your calamari .
Secure the ends with skewers to prevent the filling from falling out. Next, go back to the stove, heat the same saucepan that you used before, and lay the squid down into it. Once you’ve sealed them all sides, deglaze with the white wine . Wait for the alcohol to evaporate before adding the cleaned and halved cherry tomatoes, adjust the salt and pepper, and add the remaining chopped parsley .
Cover with a lid and cook over medium heat for around 25 minutes , turning very gently a couple of times . Your Amalfi-style stuffed calamari will then be ready to serve !
These Amalfi-style stuffed calamar i can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days at most. Not recommended for freezing.
Add some herbs, such as thyme or mint, to further season the filling for your Amalfi-style stuffed calamari. You might even like to try some dried fruit or nuts to give it that extra depth of flavor.
The sauce is perfect with spaghetti, while any left-over filling will be ideal for spreading on fish fillets such as sea bass or swordfish. Simply roll them up, stick them, and quickly sear in a pan or bake in the oven at 390°F (200°C) for 15-20 minutes!

