name:
Nutella cheesecake
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 6.5oz(180 g)
Butter: 0.3cup(80 g)
Nutella: 1 ¾cup(500 g)
Cream cheese: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: 0.3cup(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + 6 hours resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
If there’s one recipe that combines all the sweetness of creamy hazelnut spread with the freshness of a summer dessert, it has to be Nutella cheesecake : a super yummy dessert that doesn’t require any baking and is made without gelatin! The cream cheese is blended with Nutella to create a soft mousse that sits on a crunchy graham cracker crust. This cake is also ideal for the summer months because unlike the more classic New York cheesecake, for example, it doesn’t require the use of an oven, lending itself perfectly to being made on even the hottest days. A real temptation that’s impossible to resist, try this Nutella cheesecake and fall in love at first bite!
Here other cheesecakes:
To prepare the Nutella cheesecake, start with the base. Melt the butter in a small saucepan over very low heat, then leave to cool. Meanwhile, pour the dry graham crackers into a food processor , then blitz to get a powder and transfer to a bowl. Add the melted butter and leave to cool slightly .
Mix together well to get a sand-like consistency . Butter a 9-inch (24-cm) cake pan and line with parchment paper. Pour in the graham cracker mixture and use a spoon to compact it well and create the crust . Place in the refrigerator for 30 minutes or the freezer for around 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, move on to your filling. Pour the cream cheese into a bowl and add a tablespoon of Nutella , then mix well using a whisk or spatula .
At this point, add the rest of the Nutella and continue to blend with the whisk until you get a smooth cream. Take the cake pan from the refrigerator and pour the cheese and Nutella mixture over the now hardened crust .
Level the surface well with a spatula , cover with plastic wrap, and leave to firm up in the refrigerator for at least 6 hours (preferably overnight). Once this time has passed, transfer the cheesecake to a serving plate and decorate as you please with the chopped hazelnuts . Serve your Nutella cheesecake nicely chilled !
Store the Nutella cheesecake for up to 3-4 days in the refrigerator. Not recommended for freezing.
You might like to replace the chopped hazelnuts with chopped pistachios and decorate your Nutella cheesecake with a few dollops of whipped cream.

