name:
Pasta alla siciliana
ingredients:
Mini Penne Rigate pasta: 0.5lb(240 g)
Eggplant: 0.8lb(350 g)
Canned tomatoes: 1lb(400 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 0.5lb(250 g)
White onions: 1cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(25 g)
Peanut seed oil: 1 ½cup(300 g)- for frying
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Basil: to taste
Coarse salt: ¾tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + the time to drain the eggplant and mozzarella cheese

instructions:
The one thing that most accurately characterizes people from Naples is their great sense of imagination and their ability to continually reinvent themselves, and this trait also manifests itself in the rich and varied cuisine of the Campania region, inspired by distant lands such as Poland, with the Neapolitan babà rum-soaked sponge cake, and France, with the traditional sartù di riso rice dish, as well as other territories much closer to home, such as Sicily. The Neapolitans were so impressed by the charm of authentic Sicilian cuisine that they tried to put their own twist on a dish as iconic as pasta alla Norma in the form of pasta alla siciliana. The ingredients used in this dish are clearly inspired by the traditional pasta alla Norma, with the exception of the salted ricotta cheese, replaced here by fresh mozzarella. The type of pasta used, so short and delicious, will make all the difference, and there are even some differences in the method compared to the original Norma, especially where the sauce is concerned, and... well, we don’t want to give too much away! Read on to find out how to prepare this delicious Sicilian-style mini penne pasta – the perfect dish for Sunday lunch or an informal dinner with friends.
To prepare your Sicilian-style mini penne , begin by washing the eggplant, removing the two ends and cutting it first into slices and then into sticks ½ inch (1 cm) thick that you’ll then dice . Place the diced eggplants in a colander, and place this over a container. Sprinkle with coarse salt ,
and place a plate over it with a weight on top . Leave it like this for at least an hour so that the salt flushes out the bitter vegetable water from the eggplant . After this time, rinse the cubes briefly under running water to remove any excess salt
and dry them with a clean cloth . Fry in plenty of boiling oil, adding a few cubes at a time to avoid lowering the temperature of the oil too much, as it should remain at 340-350°F (170-180°C). Once the eggplant has cooked for a few minutes, drain it on paper towel .
Cut the mozzarella into thin slices of around ¼ inch (½ cm) thick and then into strips of the same size . Finally, chop it into very small cubes and place in a colander positioned over a container . Leave it like this for at least an hour, so that all the liquid drains from the fior di latte .
In the meantime, prepare the tomato sauce. Peel and chop the onion , slice the chili pepper, remove the stem , and cut into thin strips. You might also want to remove the seeds if you want to tone down the spice! Next, pour some oil into a pan, add the chopped onion and chili and fry for a few minutes, stirring continuously to make sure they don’t burn .
Once the onion has softened, add the peeled chopped tomatoes and cook for at least half an hour over low heat, seasoning with salt to taste. When the sauce is ready, add the fried eggplant , allowing the flavor to infuse into the sauce for a few minutes before turning off the heat.
Cook the pasta in boiling salted water , taking care to drain it a couple of minutes before it’s cooked, and pour it into the sauce with the eggplant . Tear up the basil leaves with your hands and add them
together with the diced fior di latte, setting some aside for the garnish . Mix everything together, still with the heat off . Fill four 1¼-cup (300-ml) bowls with the mixture
and garnish with a few pieces of the remaining fior di latte on the top . Place your bowls on a baking sheet and broil them in an oven preheated to 460°F (240°C) for 2-3 minutes until a crust has formed on the surface . At this point, your Sicilian-style mini penne will be ready . Serve piping hot, and enjoy!
These Sicilian-style mini penne are best prepared and consumed immediately and, once cooked, they can be kept in the refrigerator for a day, covered with plastic wrap. The sauce, including the eggplant, can be prepared a day in advance and stored in a sealed glass container in the refrigerator. The mini penne can also be frozen once cooked.
For a more intense flavor, use tomato passata in your sauce. Replace the fior di latte with buffalo mozzarella or smoked fresh provola for a stronger flavor.

