name:
Casarecce pasta with musky octopus and eggplant
ingredients:
Casarecce pasta: 14oz(320 g)
Musky octopus: 1.1lbs(500 g)- (cleaned)
Eggplant: 11oz(300 g)
Coarse salt: 1 ¾tsp(15 g)
Shallot: 1oz(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 7oz(200 g)
White wine: ½cup(100 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Parsley: 0.5oz(15 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Vegetable oil: 2cups(400 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + time to drain the eggplant

instructions:
Do you like your food strong and intense or sophisticated and delicate? Mediterranean cuisine offers so many flavors! How about putting them all together to keep everyone happy? We’ve concocted a succulent first-course dish based around casarecce pasta, musky octopus, and eggplant . This distinctive pasta shape, which looks like it’s folding itself in a tender embrace, pairs perfectly with a delicious musky octopus and eggplant sauce, both ingredients that are nicely enveloped in the king of summer produce: the tomato. This simple, tasty first-course dish will win over even your fussiest guests. Casarecce pasta with musky octopus and eggplant will soon become your go-to dish, just wait and see!
To prepare casarecce with musky octopus and eggplant , start by draining the eggplant. To do this, wash and trim before cutting into slices about ½ inch (1 cm) thick , and then into cubes . Place a colander in a bowl, then pour in the eggplant cubes and sprinkle with coarse salt .
Cover with a plate and place a weight on it, such as a container of dried pulses or ceramic balls . This process rids the eggplants of their bitter juices. It will take about an hour and then you’ll be able to see how much dark water has drained into the bowl.
Meanwhile, prepare the musky octopus: Separate the tentacles from the heads , slice the heads open and cut into strips ,
then separate the tentacles from one another and set aside. Peel the shallot and chop finely .
Lastly, chop the fresh chili pepper after removing the stalk . In a frying pan, brown the shallot and chili in the extra virgin olive oil. Once hot, add the sliced musky octopus . After a few moments of cooking over high heat, you’ll notice that the octopus will start to take on color; now add white wine and allow to simmer so the alcohol evaporates.
In the meantime, wash the cherry tomatoes, remove the stalks, and cut into four pieces . As soon as the alcohol has evaporated from the sauce, add the tomatoes to the sauce, season with salt to taste , then cover and cook over medium heat for 15-20 minutes .
Once the eggplant has been draining for an hour or so, rinse quickly under running water , then place the cubes on a clean dishcloth and pat dry to remove excess water .
Pour the vegetable oil for frying into a narrow pot suitable for deep frying. Once it’s hot, add the eggplant cubes and cook for a few minutes . As soon as the eggplant is cooked, take the cubes out with a slotted spoon and let them drain a little into a colander. Then taste and add salt if necessary .
Cook the pasta in plenty of salted boiling water . Meanwhile, wash the parsley, dry, and chop with a knife before setting aside. As soon as the pasta is cooked, drain it using a slotted spoon and leave it to warm in the pan for a few moments together with the musky octopus sauce .
Add the eggplant and chopped parsley, mix everything together well and finally serve the casarecce pasta with musky octopus and eggplant while still piping hot !
This casarecce pasta with musky octopus and eggplant is best eaten right away. You can keep it in the fridge for up to one day, covered with plastic wrap. You can make the sauce the day before and then add the eggplant and pasta the following day.

