name:
Coffee sorbet
ingredients:
Coffee: 0.5lb(250 g)
Sugar: 1 ¾cup(350 g)
Water: 2cups(450 g)
Heavy cream: ⅔cup(150 g)- (room temperature)
Heavy cream: ⅔cup(150 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 6.5 hours of cooling

instructions:
Coffee or sorbet? Why choose when you can have both in a dessert with a taste as cool and flavorful as coffee sorbet ! The perfect end to a meal to give your summer dinner a sweet – and elegant – finishing touch. To make this treat, you won’t need an ice cream maker or any other sophisticated equipment; in just a few simple steps, you’ll be able to make this truly special and wonderful sorbet with common kitchen utensils. It’s sure to be a hit! Once you put your coffee sorbet on the table, no one will be able to resist trying some of this tasty, refreshing dessert, and they’ll appreciate it even more since it’s homemade! And if you love sorbet in the winter, too, we recommend trying our luscious hazelnut version!
To make the coffee sorbet , start by preparing the coffee in a moka pot, without adding any sugar. Then, pour the water , the coffee you’ve prepared , and the granulated sugar into a large pot. Bring to a boil over medium heat, stirring with a whisk.
When the mixture has come to a boil, turn off the heat and pour in the heavy cream , always stirring with the whisk, and allow to cool. Next, pour the mixture into a bowl (metal is better) and place in the freezer for around 6 hours. We recommend taking the sorbet out of the freezer every two hours and stirring it with the whisk .
After these steps, you’ll get the compact consistency typical of sorbet ; however, since not all freezers are the same, if it’s still too soft, we advise leaving the sorbet in the freezer for longer. Once it’s ready, store the sorbet in the freezer and pour the heavy cream for the garnish into a bowl and whip it to stiff peaks using a hand mixer .
Take some dessert glasses and fill them with the coffee sorbet using a spoon , then garnish with a dollop of whipped cream and a sprinkling of cocoa powder . The coffee sorbet is ready to go!
The coffee sorbet can be stored in the freezer for 30 days.
If you have a stand mixer, you can mix the sorbet with the whisk attachment for up to 1 minute every two hours during the chilling phase. If you have an ice cream maker, you can use it until you get the right consistency and skip the freezer step. We don’t recommend reducing the quantity of sugar used to make the sorbet because this is the amount needed to get the right consistency.

