name:
Breaded eggplant parmigiana patties
ingredients:
Tomato purée: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Round eggplants: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Garlic: 1clove
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ¼cup(30 g)- grated
Basil: 8leaves
Fior di latte mozzarella cheese: 6oz(180 g)
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Eggs: 5
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Average

instructions:
Inspired by the crispy golden breadcrumbs of breaded eggplant patties and the Mediterranean flavors and aromas of eggplant parmigiana, we thought we’d create a tasty blend of these two traditional recipes. This is how our breaded eggplant parmigiana patties are made. Two slices of eggplant surround the most appetizing of fillings made with tomato, mozzarella, and basil. This gooey concoction will set off a taste explosion at first bite. Everyone is bound to adore this simple delicacy and it’s the perfect finger food for informal dinners. But we recommend that you enjoy them hot, straight out of the pan to better appreciate all the fragrance of the double coating!
To make the eggplant parmigiana patties , start by preparing the sauce: Fry the garlic clove in a little olive oil in a small saucepan , then pour in the tomato puree , cover , and cook for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally.
While the sauce is cooking, cut the fior di latte cheese into shavings and place in a strainer to drain. Cut the eggplant into slices around ? inch (2-3 mm) thick, making sure you get 16 slices of a similar diameter so you can match them into pairs .
By now the sauce will be ready; remove the garlic and add salt to taste . Beat the eggs with a pinch of salt in a low, wide bowl. Pour the breadcrumbs into another bowl. Now everything is ready to make the patties. Spread a level spoonful of sauce onto a slice of eggplant, making sure to leave a generous ½ inch (1 cm) before reaching the edge .
Add a few shavings of fior di latte mozzarella cheese, a basil leaf , and a teaspoon of Parmigiano Reggiano cheese . Cover with a second slice of eggplant
and press lightly with your fingers to make them stick together . Dip the patty in the egg , then in the breadcrumbs ;
then repeat, dipping first into the egg and then into the breadcrumbs , taking care to seal the edges to stop the filling from leaking out during cooking. Heat the oil in a frying pan and start to fry when it reaches 340°F (170°C): Immerse the patties and cook for 2 minutes on each side.
When they are golden brown, drain them , place onto paper towel , and add salt. Serve the breaded eggplant parmigiana patties immediately .
The breaded eggplant parmigiana patties are best eaten right away. We don’t recommend storing them after cooking.
If you like stronger flavors, you can swap the mozzarella for smoked scamorza cheese.

