name:
Spaghetti with mussels
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 2.3cups(320 g)
Mussels: 3.3lbs(1.5 kg)
Tomato purée: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ⅔cup(70 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Parsley: 2tbsp- minced
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The bright red color of the tomato and the irresistible scent of the sea given off by the  mussels  are the two main ingredients of the dressing, which we are preparing for today's lunch. It is spaghetti with mussels , a very simple first course that always brings most people together. After a good fish appetizer, what could be better than a tasty and enveloping dish in which the acidity of the tomato is mitigated by the sweetness of the clams, and the aroma enhanced to its fullest thanks to chopped parsley. Our kitchen is now invaded by this tempting smell, and lovers of fish dishes will agree: we can't wait to taste the spaghetti with mussels, come prepare them with us!
You can also try:
To prepare the spaghetti with mussels , start by cleaning them. Rinse; under running water, eliminate the barnacles and all the impurities present with a knife and the byssus, that is the beard that you find on the edge of each mussel, simply removing it with your fingers .
Pour the oil into a large saucepan together with a peeled clove of garlic and let it season for 1-2 minutes over low heat. As soon as it is hot enough, remove the garlic , and add the mussels .
and cover immediately . Cook for 2-3 minutes, so that the mussels can open completely . While cooking, shake the pan from time to time to stir. Before draining the mussels, place them in a sterile gauze-lined colander, which will act as a filter, collecting any impurities and sand residue .
Then shell them, keeping some for the final decoration of the dish if desired . Wash and dry the parsley, then finely chop it and pour it into a pan with a little oil and a clove of garlic , and cook for 1-2 minutes.
Add some shelled mussels , so as to further flavor the base and, after 1-2 minutes remove the garlic and add the tomato puree together with some cooking liquid from the clams .
Cover with a lid and leave to simmer for 20 minutes. In the meantime, put a pot with plenty of water on the stove, as soon as it boils, salt and cook the pasta . When the pasta has 2-3 minutes left to cook, add the shelled mussels
and the previously drained spaghetti . Toss the pasta by adding the remaining liquid from the mussels and when it is cooked, add the pepper and make sure the salt is right. All you have to do now is plate and serve your spaghetti with mussels .
It is advisable to eat spaghetti with mussels immediately; if you really want to keep them in the fridge, cover them with transparent wrap and store for a day at most.
Freezing is not recommended.
If this red tomato version has won you over, you should try the white tomato-less version . Instead of black pepper , try chili pepper and your spaghetti with mussels will acquire a completely different flavor !

