name:
Strawberry tiramisù
ingredients:
Mascarpone cheese: 1 ¾cup(400 g)
Egg yolks: 3
Water: ¼cup(50 g)
Sugar: ⅔cup(125 g)- for the syrup
Strawberries: 1lb(400 g)
Ladyfingers: 8
Sugar: 1 ¾tbsp(20 g)
Lemon juice: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Strawberries: 12

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus the resting time for the cream (30 minutes)

instructions:
Is there anything better than a classic tiramisu ? No, but there are plenty of delicious variations that come close, including this wonderfully fresh strawberry tiramisu ! Forget the energizing coffee syrup for a moment, and the generous dusting of unsweetened cocoa, and focus instead on the ladyfingers and the soft mascarpone cream perfectly complemented by a strawberry sauce and fresh strawberry pieces. A real treat in a glass, elegant and sophisticated, just like the wild berry version , and perfect served at the end of a mouth-watering meal – a guaranteed hit! We decided to make this dessert with pate à bombe, which allows you to pasteurize the yolks that will form the base of your mascarpone cream. The perfect end to a beautiful spring or summer lunch, or the first al fresco dinners of the year, no doubt leaving your guests very pleasantly surprised!
Check out these other tasty variations of classic tiramisu:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the strawberry tiramisu , wash the strawberries and remove the part with the leaves , cut them into slices , pour them in a bowl, and add the 1 3/4 tbsp (20 g) of granulated sugar .
Add the 1 1/2 tbsp (20 g) of lemon juice and mix . Let the strawberries soak until you are going to use. In a saucepan pour 1/4 cup (50 g) of water .
Add 2/3 cup (125 g) of sugar and cook over medium heat. Use a kitchen thermometer to check that the temperature reaches exactly 250°F (121°C) . It is best to use a thermometer to be more accurate, but if you don’t have one, you can tell when the syrup is ready from the white bubbles that will appear on the surface. Once the thermometer reads around 240°F (115°C), start mixing the yolks with ¼ cup (50 g) of sugar in a bowl using an electric hand mixer. .

O nce the syrup has reached 250°F (121°C), , slowly add it to the egg yolks , continuing to mix with the whisk until you get a clear and frothy mixture and until it has cooled completely .

Pour the mascarpone into a bowl, and start by adding just a little of the egg mixture , stirring vigorously with a spatula, before pouring in the rest and mixing by making gentle movements from top to bottom to combine the two mixtures until you get a creamy mascarpone cream with an even consistency . Cover the cream with plastic wrap, leave to firm up in the refrigerator for 30 minutes , and in the meantime continue with the next step.
Take your strawberries and filter them . Take 1/3 of the strawberries cut into slices and pour them into a tall glass, add the filtered juice and blend everything .
Pour the sauce in a large bowl , cut the ladyfingers in half or you can break them according to the size of your glasses or containers. Transfer the firmed cream in a pastry bag .
Now you can start to assemble your strawberry tiramisu using the bowl of strawberry sauce, which you’ll be dipping each side of the ladyfingers. Cover the bottom of a glass with a layer of cream , then lay 1 piece of ladyfingers dipped in strawberry sauce on top , followed by a few pieces of cooked strawberry .
Create two more layers of mascarpone cream as done previously, arranging the ladyfingers according to the size of the glass (you can use only one piece or even two). Finish with a layer of cream and decorate the surface with the strawberries kept aside. Your strawberry tiramisu is ready to be served
Store the mascarpone cream in the refrigerator for a maximum of 3-4 days tightly covered or sealed in an airtight container.
The sauce can also be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
If you prefer, you can assemble your single portions of strawberry tiramisu and freeze them for around a month.
How would you like to transform this strawberry tiramisu into a delicious semifreddo? Simply add some whipped cream to the mascarpone cream, about half of the total weight of the cream!
If you have any strawberries left over, you can use them for a delicious strawberry French toast!

