name:
Neapolitan pasta fritters
ingredients:
Bucatini pasta: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Prosciutto cotto: 7oz(200 g)
Peas: 0.7cup(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.75oz(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(130 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Water: 2cups(500 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(225 g)
Peanut seed oil: 8 ½cups(1.5 l)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 15 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time in the fridge for the frittatine (at least 2 hours)

instructions:
Are you out on the street and feeling a bit hungry? If you were in Naples, you could stop at the nearest pizzeria or rotisserie to ask for one of those Neapolitan pasta fritters displayed in the window! For those who don't know them, these fried snacks are similar to the typical spaghetti frittata but in mini version. These are pasta medallions mixed with béchamel and stuffed with a delicious filling made of cooked ham and sautéed peas. A dip in the batter and breadcrumbs, and then everything is completed with a golden, crispy frying! These delicious Neapolitan pasta fritters are a delicacy in full street food style that's really hard to resist. You'll discover how good they are and what a creamy filling awaits you!
Along with the Neapolitan pasta fritters, your homemade cuoppo can't miss other traditional delicacies:

To prepare the Neapolitan pasta fritters, start with the béchamel: heat the milk in a saucepan , while in another pot melt the butter. As soon as the butter is melted, add the flour all at once and stir with a whisk until you get a golden mixture.
Blend with the hot milk pouring it a little at a time and stirring to avoid lumps. Once the mixture is well blended, add salt and continue cooking until you get a nice thick cream, then season with nutmeg . Transfer the cream to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap , and let it cool at room temperature.
Move on to the filling. Cut the ham into slices, then into strips, and finally into 0.2-inch cubes . Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan with the garlic. Let it flavor for a few moments over medium heat, then add the ham cubes and peas .
Sauté for a few moments , season with salt, remove the garlic , and set aside. At this point, you can cook the pasta in boiling salted water ; calculate 2-3 minutes less than the cooking time indicated on the package.
Drain on a cutting board and roughly chop with a knife . Transfer the bucatini to a large bowl, then pour the béchamel .
Flavor with the ham and pea filling and grated Parmigiano Reggiano PDO . Mix well with a spoon .
Spread a large sheet of parchment paper on the work surface and pour the mixture on top . Shape it to get a roll of about 20 inches . Wrap the parchment paper around the roll tightly, seal the ends, and let it firm up in the fridge for at least a couple of hours .
Prepare the batter by pouring the water onto the flour while stirring with the whisk until you get a smooth, lump-free batter .
After the firming time, retrieve the roll and cut it into 15 disks, each about 1.2 inches thick . If necessary, you can shape them with your hands to restore the circular shape. Then dip the fritters in the batter , drain and coat them in breadcrumbs .
Coat the fritters evenly , then place them on a tray lined with parchment paper . Heat the seed oil to 340°F-356°F, then dip 2-3 pieces at a time .
Let them brown for a few minutes, then drain on absorbent paper . Your Neapolitan pasta fritters are ready, enjoy them hot !
The Neapolitan pasta fritters can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days; it's advisable to reheat them before consuming. Alternatively, you can freeze them raw or even cooked as needed.
If you prefer, you can prepare the béchamel in advance or directly assemble the fritters and store them in the refrigerator for up to 12 hours. Then you'll just need to dip them in the batter and fry them.
Do you want some tasty variations? The most traditional one with ground meat sautéed in a pan with peas, similar to a quick Bolognese ragù. And then the more original ones like eggplant parmigiana fritters, cheese-only fritters, and even tuna in oil with peas fritters!

