name:
Chicken curry
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.75lbs(800 g)
Greek yogurt: 1 ¼cup(250 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Caienna pepper: 1tsp
Powdered turmeric: 2tsp
Smoked paprika: 2tsp
Cinnamon powder: 1tsp
Cumin: 2tsp
Coriander seeds: 1tsp- powdered
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh ginger: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: 1
White onions: 1
Coriander: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ¾tbsp(10 g)
Basmati rice: 2 ¼cups(400 g)
Water: 2 ⅔cups(600 g)
Cinnamon sticks: 1
Cardamon: 3- pods
Star anise: 1
Coarse salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + time to marinate the chicken (2 hours)

instructions:
Thinking about South Asian cuisine, unique and spicy dishes immediately come to mind – especially chicken curry ! This dish is packed with flavor and its unmistakable color that immediately gives away its Indian origins. The main characteristic of this recipe is the blend of spices, a particular and special fragrance that varies from city to city based on different tastes. Curry spice , or masala more precisely, is actually a mix created by grinding different spices and can be purchased ready-made or easily created at home. We’ve gone for the second option and will show you how to make a mix using spices such as turmeric, which gives the dish its typical yellow color; cayenne pepper, which provides a subtle heat and intoxicating aroma; and cumin, which will be the dominant note! When the spices release their aromas in the pan, your home will be filled with their fragrance, making you feel like you’ve been whisked away to a classic spice market! Try our chicken curry to liven up your dinnertime, and don’t forget to cook a pot of basmati rice to go with it as a traditional accompaniment. And whenever you feel like continuing on your spice journey, why not try our paprika chicken, too?
If you like chicken , you can't miss these recipes:
To make the chicken curry , start by preparing the marinade: Pour the spices into a pan and toast them over low heat for just a few minutes , then transfer them to a large bowl .
Add a pinch of salt and pepper, then add the Greek yogurt and stir all together to get a creamy mixture with an even color .
At this point, chop the chicken breast into ½-inch (1.5-cm) cubes and place the cubes in the marinade . Mix all together, cover with plastic wrap , and leave to marinate in the fridge for a couple of hours. If you prefer, you can leave the chicken to rest for just 10-15 minutes. However, the longer you leave it to marinate, the more the aromas will infuse and liven up the meat!
Once the chicken has marinated, start to prepare the rice accompaniment. Rinse the rice well, then pour into a saucepan, add the cinnamon stick, cardamom pods, and star anise. Add the coarse salt and water . Cover with a lid and bring to a boil, then lower the heat and leave to cook for 8-10 minutes.
Meanwhile, cook the chicken. Slice the onion very thinly (or, if you prefer, you can mince it) ; grate the fresh ginger and cut the chili into pieces, removing the stem but keeping the seeds .
Pour the oil into a pan, crush the garlic into it , then add the onion, ginger, and chili . Fry lightly over medium heat and then add the chicken, together with all of the marinade .
Leave to cook for 8-10 minutes and in the meantime, chop the coriander leaves finely ; you’ll add them to the pan at the last minute when the chicken is nearly done .
At this point, both the chicken curry and the basmati rice will be ready. Now you just have to serve them !
You can store the chicken curry together with the basmati rice in the fridge for up to 2 days. Not suitable for freezing.
For a more intense spice flavor, leave the chicken to marinate overnight!
FAQ
What’s the flavor of curry?
Curry is a mix of spices. That means its flavor is defined by the spices used in the mix. In general, it’s a spicy mix, but this isn’t always the case.
What are the origins of curry?
Curry dates back to the 18th century, when British colonists returned from India, bringing South Asian spices and the art of mixing them back home with them.
What are the spices in curry?
Curry is a mix of spices that are ground using a mortar and pestle. One Indian recipe, for example, includes: coriander, cumin, cinnamon, black pepper, cloves, ginger, nutmeg, fenugreek, chili, saffron, and cardamom, and has a yellow color.
What’s the difference between turmeric and curry?
Curry is a mix of spices that can also contain turmeric. Turmeric, on the other hand, is a root that is dried and ground into a powder.

