name:
Zucchini balls alla pizzaiola
ingredients:
Zucchini: 1.5lbs(640 g)
Bread: 1.5oz(40 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ½cup(130 g)
Eggs: 1(50 g)- medium
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 3tbsp(20 g)- grated
Breadcrumbs: ½cup(60 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Tomato purée: 2cups(500 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Mozzarella cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- for pizza
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Zucchini balls alla pizzaiola are succulent, appetizing morsels enveloped in an aromatic tomato sauce flavored with basil and enhanced by the gooey deliciousness of mozzarella cheese. This tasty dish was inspired by the traditional delicacy carne alla pizzaiola , one of the most popular home-made dishes in Italy. We’ve come up with many other tasty variations on this theme, including a recipe with anchovies and an unusual omelet option. Those recipes went down so well that we decided to try these zucchini balls. Just one glance will whet your appetite. You will need to serve twice as much bread as usual to slake your irresistible desire to mop up all the sauce.
Peel and grate the zucchini using a coarse grater and then add them to a bowl . Transfer the bread to a food processor
and blend to make breadcrumbs . Pour the ricotta into a bowl and add the bread , zucchini, grated cheese , salt, and pepper.
Add the egg , then mix everything with your hands . Add the flour
and breadcrumbs , then knead everything to make a compact, uniform mixture . Now form the balls, taking about 1 oz (30 g) for each one and shaping them with your hands .
Continue in this way until you’ve made about 30 balls . Pour a little oil into a nonstick pan and let it warm up , add the meatballs and brown on both sides . Set them aside while you make the sauce.
In another frying pan, brown a clove of garlic in a little oil, add the passata , season with salt, and cook for about 15 minutes. Then take out the garlic clove and add the zucchini balls. Add the basil
and cover with a lid . Cook over low heat for about 10 minutes, turning the balls a couple of times. Meanwhile, use a coarse grater to grate the mozzarella for pizza and scatter it over the balls after about 10 minutes. Cover with the lid and allow the cheese to melt. Serve your zucchini balls piping hot .

You can keep the balls in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
You can also use the same mixture to make a meatloaf and bake it in the oven. You can also flavor the zucchini balls with lemon peel.

