name:
Baked Prawns
ingredients:
Prawns: 12
Lemon juice: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)-
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 12 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Baked prawns are an easy and quick second course, a recipe that will allow you to bring a delicious dish to the table with very little effort! All the flavor of the sea in a tasty and light dish, perfect for a family dinner or for the holidays, for example on Christmas Eve or New Year's Eve. The tender and meaty flesh of the prawns is seasoned with a fresh Citronette with parsley which, with its Mediterranean aroma, enhances the delicate taste of the shellfish. As always, we explain all the steps to bring baked prawns to the table, making it as easy as possible for you!
Don't miss these prawn recipes:

To prepare the baked prawns, start by cleaning the prawns: remove the prawn legs , remove the shell, taking care not to remove the head or tail, which should be left attached to the prawn for decoration. Now cut the back of the prawn with a small knife .
Remove the dark filament, the prawn's intestine, by gently pulling it out with the knife blade or a toothpick . Wash the parsley, dry it, and chop it very finely . Squeeze the lemon juice .
Then prepare the citronette that will be used to flavor the baked prawns: put the parsley in a small bowl, pour in the lemon juice , the olive oil , and finally season with salt and pepper to taste. Mix the sauce well and set aside.
Take a rectangular baking dish, place the cleaned prawns close together, side by side , and drizzle them with the citronette, pouring it directly over the shellfish flesh .
Cover the prawns with a sheet of parchment paper, which will help retain moisture inside, so the prawns will remain tender . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 10-12 minutes. When cooked, take your baked prawns out of the oven and serve them hot !
It is best to eat the baked prawns immediately after preparation; alternatively, you can store them in the refrigerator for up to one day, in an airtight container. You can freeze the baked prawns if you used fresh ones.
You can also use a few mint leaves to flavor the citronette.
If you are looking for a first course with shellfish, try our prawn pasta recipe!

