name:
Pasta with stracchino cheese, bresaola, and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Stracchino cheese: 4.25oz(120 g)
Penne Rigate pasta: 0.7lb(320 g)
Bresaola: 3.5oz(100 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 8
Arugula: 1.5oz(40 g)
Whole milk: 1tbsp
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Are you looking for a knock-out summer recipe that will really revive you after a long, hot day? Then look no further than this recipe for pasta with stracchino cheese, bresaola, and cherry tomatoes . This quick and easy first-course dish is made with a tasty sauce you can prepare while the pasta is cooking. The creaminess of stracchino, the freshness of cherry tomatoes, and the savory note of bresaola create a perfect and balanced combination of flavors and textures that the whole family will love. And for the second course, why not try another quick dish that can be prepared in a few minutes, such as our aromatic tomato and basil frittata, or our pan-fried cod fillet with a fragrant crust...
To make this pasta with stracchino, bresaola, and cherry tomatoes , first bring a pan of water to a boil before adding salt. Slice the bresaola into strips and then into smaller pieces. Wash the cherry tomatoes and cut them into quarters to form wedges (2-3).
Once the water is boiling, pour in the pasta and cook for the time stated on the package. While the pasta is cooking, turn your attention to the sauce. Pour a little oil and the stracchino cheese into a pan .
Heat up over low heat, and then add the milk for a looser consistency . Stir to combine and, once the pasta is ready, drain and pour directly into the pan . Sauté the pasta to develop the flavor, then turn off the heat and add the bresaola ,
the cherry tomatoes , and finally the washed and dried arugula . Stir one last time and serve your pasta with stracchino, bresaola, and cherry tomatoes immediately.
We recommend eating this pasta with stracchino, bresaola, and cherry tomatoes immediately.
Those who like a smokier flavor might want to try replacing the bresaola in this recipe with speck.

