name:
Pizza Muffins
ingredients:
Water: 1cup(240 g)
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(380 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¼tsp(8 g)
Baking powder: 1 ¼tsp(16 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 8oz(220 g)
Tomato purée: ½cup(130 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Oregano: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Have you ever thought about how many things you could make with a quick pizza mix? Today we want to surprise you with a one-serving wonder: pizza muffins ! Inspired by the Internet craze for cruffins (a cross between croissants and muffins) and other original, super-tasty fusions, we came up with this cute little morsel that is bound to brighten up your buffet. Pizza muffins are a happy union between pizza ingredients and the tried and tested American muffin shape: soft bites that melt irresistibly in your mouth. They make perfect finger food at an informal dinner with friends or to be enjoyed as a tasty snack in front of the TV, perhaps with our equally soft and tasty pizza donuts . Watch them fly off the plate! Try our delicious pizza muffins . We’re sure that this marriage made in heaven will be love at first bite!
If you love pizza you can't miss these recipes:
When making pizza muffins , your first job is to take care of the dough : Combine flour, baking powder, and salt , then slowly add the water and mix with your hands .
Always knead by hand and when all the water is absorbed, transfer the dough to a pastry board and roll it into a ball . Your next job is the filling: Cut the mozzarella into cubes ,
then pour the tomato passata into a bowl and season with oil , salt , and oregano . Stir to combine the flavors.
Go back to your ball of dough, sprinkle a little flour over the work surface and roll out into a slightly oval shape with a rolling pin. Your aim is to achieve a thickness of approximately ½ inch (1 cm) . Begin to spread the tomato passata over the surface of the dough with a spoon , adding approximately 2 tablespoons to each side.
Once you have added all the topping, fold the pastry over starting from the side closest to you and roll it up (14-15).
Transfer the roll to a chopping board and cut 12 mini rolls using a large, very sharp knife. (16-17). Grease a mold for 12 muffins .
Place the rolls in the molds with the cut side uppermost . Add a little tomato passata that you have set aside and stuff 3 cubes of mozzarella for pizza into the middle of each muffin.
The pizza muffins are ready for cooking : bake them in a preheated conventional oven at 350°F (180°C) for 20/25 minutes. Once ready, take them out of the oven, wait for a few moments before tipping them out of the mold, and season with a little oregano to taste . Enjoy your pizza muffins while they are still piping hot .
The pizza muffins can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. It is possible to freeze them after cooking.
For this recipe, we used a mozzarella designed for pizza which is drier and more suitable for the preparation. The result will be delightfully stringy. If you prefer using fresh mozzarella, make sure to drain and squeeze it carefully after cutting it into cubes. Enhance your pizza muffins with sliced ham, fresh basil, Parmesan cheese, and chili pepper to taste!

