name:
Leavened brioche braid
ingredients:
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¾cups(320 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1 ¼tbsp(12 g)
Sugar: 3oz(80 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Lemon peel: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Eggs: 3.5oz(100 g)
Whole milk: 0.3cup(80 g)
Eggs: 1
Granulated sugar: 3tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note plus rising time (around 2 hours)

instructions:
A leavened brioche braid is a sweet bread made using fresh brewer’s yeast. It’s perfect for breakfast but also great as a snack. This brioche braid will keep the whole family happy! It isn’t difficult to make at home: We used a planetary mixer as an easy way to get a smooth, soft dough, but you can also knead the dough by hand and get excellent results! Have fun making it with your kids – they’ll go crazy for the nib sugar on top, but you can also decorate it with raisins or chocolate chips. Enjoy it as is, with a cup of hot chocolate, coffee, or a cappuccino. Or, why not toast the slices and spread some Nutella or jelly on them?
To make the leavened brioche braid , first melt the butter and then let it cool. Next, heat the milk and pour it into a bowl where you’ve already crumbled the yeast . Add the sugar and mix everything until it dissolves .
Pour the sifted flour into the bowl of the planetary mixer, add the milk and yeast mixture , then the melted butter . Beat both eggs and add them to the ingredients in the mixer
with the zest of half a lemon , the seeds of one vanilla bean , and the salt .
Start kneading the ingredients using the dough hook to get a smooth, even mixture. The dough should turn out soft but cling to the hook nicely , leaving the sides of the bowl clean. Transfer it to a lightly floured work surface and quickly knead it by hand .
Transfer the dough to a bowl and cover with plastic wrap . Leave to leaven at approximately 77°F (25°C) for 90 minutes .
After this time, transfer the dough to a lightly floured work surface and divide it into three equal portions weighing about 7 oz (200 g) each (16-17). Make strands that are 14 inches (35 cm) long
and braid them together. To do this, seal one end of the 3 strands together and start braiding them . Once the braid is finished, secure the ends well .
Transfer to a baking sheet covered with parchment paper and leave to rise for a further 30 minutes, covered with plastic wrap . When it has risen well, gently remove the plastic wrap .
Brush the surface with beaten egg and decorate with nib sugar . Bake in a conventional oven at 340°F (170°C) for approximately 35 minutes on the middle rack. The brioche braid should be soft but well-cooked and golden on the surface .
The brioche will keep for 2 days at room temperature if well covered. It can be frozen after cooking.
You can add chocolate chips or raisins to the dough.

