name:
Prawn guazzetto
ingredients:
Prawns: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (12 pieces)
Peeled tomatoes: 14oz(400 g)- (cherry tomatoes)
Water: 1cup(200 g)
Brandy: ¼cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Prawn guazzetto is a tasty seafood main course that brings out the delicate flavor of the shellfish in the best and simplest way. The firm, plump shrimp are drenched in a tasty sauce called guazzetto, which is made even more inviting by adding a splash of brandy for extra fragrance and aroma. This flambé flourish will add a little top chef touch to the dish, perfect for impressing your guests! This delicious dish is also great for dipping, so we recommend serving your prawn guazzetto with crusty bread cut into slices – it will be irresistible!
To prepare the prawn guazzetto, start by cleaning the prawn: Remove only their outer shell and take out the dark vein (the digestive tract) by pulling gently with the blade of a knife or toothpick . Leave the head and tail attached and place the prawn on a tray .
Take the fresh chili pepper, remove the inner seeds, and cut it into thin strips . Heat the olive oil in a frying pan, add a whole peeled clove of garlic and the sliced chili pepper .
When the oil is hot, place the prawns in the pan alongside one other without overlapping , brown on both sides for a minute, then douse with the brandy . Tilt the pan so that the liqueur catches fire and let it flambé until the flame goes out on its own. Add the peeled cherry tomatoes
and dilute the sauce with water . Season with salt, cover with a lid , and continue cooking for about 4-5 minutes. Using tongs, remove the garlic clove , then crush some of the cherry tomatoes with a fork and continue cooking the prawns for another 10 minutes.
Wash, dry, and finely chop the parsley . Once cooked, turn off the heat, garnish the prawns with the parsley and serve the dish piping hot .
The prawn guazzetto can be kept in the fridge for up to 1 day in an airtight container. Not suitable for freezing.
If you don’t have any brandy, you can use cognac to flambé the prawns. Instead of peeled cherry tomatoes, you can use crushed tomatoes or ordinary peeled tomatoes.

