name:
Pasta Salad with Ricotta and Tomatoes
ingredients:
Casarecce pasta: 11oz(320 g)
Caciocavallo cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Pizzutelli tomatoes: 1lb(450 g)
Taggiasca olives: 1.6oz(50 g)
Basil: 0.5oz(15 g)
Ricotta di bufala cheese: 1cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2tbsp
Sardinian camone tomato: 0.5lb(220 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Pasta salad with ricotta and tomatoes is a creamy, delectable first course that’s made for summer! To create the sauce, we were inspired by Sicilian-style pesto, and we kept the ingredients from this amazing region the same, which, all together, give the dish a nice splash of color. When we were experimenting, we realized that once cold, this pasta became even more flavorful, and to make sure it wasn’t missing anything, we added pieces of caciocavallo cheese, tomatoes, and Taggiasca olives. Besides being a really easy dish to make, it’s also super quick! Your cold pasta dish will win over all of your friends, whether on the beach or at home!
Also check out these tasty recipes:
To make the pasta salad with ricotta and cherry tomatoes, first heat a pot filled with water that you’ll use to cook the pasta. Then turn to the sauce: Put the washed Pizzutello tomatoes, ricotta , basil, oil , and Parmigiano in a food processor.
Season with salt and pepper and blitz until you get a cream . Pour this cream into a large bowl that you’ll add the pasta too.
Next, take the caciocavallo, remove the rind , and cut into small cubes . Then take the Sardinian tomatoes, wash them, remove the stems, and dice .
At this point, cook the pasta and drain once it’s al dente. Run under water to stop the cooking and then pour into the bowl with the tomato and ricotta sauce .
Add the Sardinian tomatoes , caciocavallo , and Taggiasca olives .
Stir well to combine (16-17). The cold pasta with tomatoes and ricotta is ready ! You can serve it right away or put it in the fridge to eat it cold.
This pasta salad with ricotta and tomatoes can be stored in the fridge for 1 day.
Add almonds or pine nuts, Pecorino cheese, or sun-dried tomatoes to your pesto for a more intense flavor!

