name:
Swordfish rolls
ingredients:
Swordfish: 4slices- 1,75 oz (50 g) each
Basil: 8leaves
Cluster tomatoes: ½cup(100 g)- (approximately 1)
Green Peperoncino: to taste
Garlic: - 1/2 clove
Basil: 3leaves
Green olives: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Salted capers: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Breadcrumbs: 2 ¾tbsp(40 g)
Cluster tomatoes: ¾cup(140 g)- (approximately 2)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Swordfish rolls are a traditional summer dish in Sicily, particularly of Catania. Swordfish rolls are prepared with thinly cut slices of swordfish and a filling with simple yet very tasty ingredients such as capers, olives, breadcrumbs, and tomatoes. Swordfish rolls pair well with many side dishes. An example? Peppers with capers or the famous scapece-style zucchini! These delicious morsels, also called "braciolettini" in some places, are such a popular dish that there are several variations of the recipe, some of which use pecorino cheese and pine nuts for the filling.
To prepare the swordfish rolls , start by preparing the filling: chop the olives and capers with a knife , cut the tomatoes in half, remove the seeds, then dice .
In a bowl, mix the breadcrumbs, capers, chopped olives, chopped garlic clove, and tomatoes , with half of a teaspoon of chili powder , fresh basil ,
salt and season with a drizzle of oil . Prepare the swordfish: cut the slices of fish in half , fill each slice with approximately 1 1/2 tbsp of the filling.
Fold the edges along the long side of the fillet first so that the filling does not come out, roll and hold the swordfish rolls together with toothpicks .
Cut the tomato into slices and set them aside, oil an oven dish, place the rolls inside place a slice of tomato and a basil leaf on top , and finish preparing the other rolls in this manner ;
Before baking, sprinkle the swordfish rolls with a handful of breadcrumbs , and season with a drizzle of olive oil. Place in a pre-heated oven at 350° F (180° C) for 10 minutes (or in a ventilated oven at 320° F (160° C) for approximately 8 minutes). When the rolls are golden on the surface, take them out of the oven and serve them hot.
We recommended eating the swordfish rolls hot, but you can keep them in the fridge covered with plastic wrap for a day.
The rolls can also be prepared with sea bass or gilthead sea bream fillets . The tomato slices to accompany the rolls can be replaced with other vegetables as desired, such as zucchini, bell peppers, or eggplant s .

