name:
Apple and ricotta fritters
ingredients:
Fuji Apples: 7oz(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(100 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ⅔cup(150 g)
Acacia honey: 2tbsp(40 g)
Eggs: 1(55 g)- (medium, at room temperature)
Baking powder: 1tsp(5 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Orange peel: 1
Sugar: to taste
Whole milk: 3tbsp(40 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 15 pieces

instructions:
Apples, with their sweet, crunchy flesh, are a versatile ingredient you can use in a wide variety of sweet and savory recipes. They are, of course, the star of the quintessential apple pie, and can also be found in tasty sweet and sour dishes such as cod terrine or pork ribs. Apples are definitely a staple item in any pantry! Today, we want to get your mouth watering with a twist on classic apple fritters: apple and ricotta fritters . These soft bites full of diced apples are the perfect snack for sharing with the whole family on a wintery afternoon!
To make the apple and ricotta fritters , first cut the apples in half , remove the core , and peel them. Then dice into cubes of around ?” (1 cm) .
Drain the ricotta well, then add it to a bowl along with the honey and egg , and whisk together .
Now add the milk , sift in the baking powder , and add the flour .
Stir to mix these ingredients into the batter, then grate the lemon and orange peel into the mixture to add flavor. Add the diced apple
and stir to mix the pieces into the batter. The batter is now ready for frying . Heat the vegetable oil in a pot with tall sides. Once the oil has reached 265°F (130°C), immerse one spoonful of batter . Cook just a few fritters at a time for around 8 minutes and once they’ve turned golden,
drain them on a tray lined with paper towel and allow to cool. To finish, dip them in the sugar and serve the apple and ricotta fritters piping hot .
It’s better to eat the fritters on the same day. Not suitable for freezing.
You can flavor the batter with spices such as cinnamon or the liqueur of your choice.

