name:
Pasta alla sorrentina
ingredients:
Fusilli pasta: 11oz(320 g)
Tomato purée: 17oz(500 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 4.5oz(125 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(65 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare pasta alla sorrentina , you’ll need to start by preparing the sauce. Pour the oil into a large pan and add the peeled garlic clove , fry for 1 minute, and then add the tomato puree . Season with salt as needed, add a few basil leaves, and stir .
At this point, cover with a lid, and leave to cook for 30 minutes over low heat before removing the garlic clove . Heat a pot full of water to cook the pasta, and in the meantime, cut the mozzarella into cubes . Once the water has reached a boil, cook the pasta al dente
before draining it and adding it to the sauce , stirring well to combine . Pour around half of the pasta into a 10-inch (25-cm) round baking dish to form the first layer ,
before placing half of the mozzarella cubes on top and sprinkling with a little Parmigiano Reggiano cheese . Cover with the remaining pasta ,
then add the mozzarella, and finally cover with the Parmigiano Reggiano (13-14). Broil in the oven for around 5 minutes, until the pasta is nicely baked and the mozzarella has melted (if you don’t have a broil function, you can put the dish on the top rack and turn the oven on full power, but be careful not to burn it!). Garnish your pasta alla sorrentina with some fresh basil and serve immediately !
This pasta dish is best eaten still piping hot with the cheese melting and stringy. You can keep it in the refrigerator for up to 2 days, sealed in an airtight container.
If you prefer, you can freeze it, in which case you should undercook the pasta slightly, or prepare everything in advance and bake before serving. You could even prepare the sauce in advance and just cook the pasta before serving.
If you want to go down the traditional route, prepare the sauce using good sauce tomatoes and put them through a vegetable mill once cooked.
If you prefer a thicker sauce with a more intense flavor, try adding some tomato paste. A tablespoon will be enough. You could even sprinkle with breadcrumbs for a crispier surface.

