name:
Pizza doughnuts
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ½cups(400 g)
Water: 1cup(240 g)- room temperature
Baking powder: 1 ¼tbsp(15 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¼tsp(8 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Canned tomatoes: ¾cup(200 g)
Oregano: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 20 minutes to drain the mozzarella

instructions:
One surefire way to get your family’s attention is to say the word “ pizza !” No one can resist this mouthwatering summons but making pizza or other tasty versions of it at home takes a little patience and time, both of which are sometimes in short supply. So, here’s an appetizing solution, a quick and easy hack that will allow you to deliver the same flavors: pizza doughnuts . No leavening is required for this express recipe: A quick dough you can swiftly shape into cute doughnuts to be stuffed with tomato and mozzarella cheese – a typical pizza topping in other words. The result will be a soft and tasty treat, like pizza muffins or pizza made with baking powder!
Discover more delicious Pizza recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the pizza doughnuts , first prepare the mozzarella cheese. Cut it into slices and leave it to drain in a colander . Then move on to the tomato sauce: Pour the crushed tomatoes into a bowl and add salt and pepper.
Add the oregano and a drizzle of oil, then mix everything together . Place in the refrigerator and in the meantime make the dough: Pour the flour and baking powder into a large bowl.
Start adding water and knead the dough with your hands until you have used up all the water . Then add the salt
and knead again . Continue to knead the dough on a lightly floured work surface to obtain a uniform, compact dough . Divide into six portions weighing about 4 oz (100 g) each .
Once you have obtained six pieces , roll out each portion to form sausage-shaped pieces approximately 9 inches (24 cm) in length . Now create doughnuts by joining both ends together and pressing lightly .
As you form the doughnuts, transfer them to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper , taking care to press lightly on both ends to double-check that they are sealed . Once you have prepared the 6 doughnuts ,
coat them in the tomato sauce you set aside (19-20) and bake in a conventional oven preheated to 390°F (200°C) for 25 minutes. After 25 minutes ,
take the doughnuts out of the oven  and spread the mozzarella on top . Then bake again for another 5 minutes until the mozzarella has melted . The pizza doughnut s will be hot and melting , ready to be enjoyed.
Keep the pizza doughnuts in the refrigerator and eat within 2 days. The doughnuts can be frozen after baking.
Add slices of salami, anchovies, olives, and any other appetizing ingredients you can come up with!

