name:
Spaghetti with creamy burrata and eggplant
ingredients:
Gluten-free Spaghetti pasta: 11oz(320 g)
Burrata cheese: 10.5oz(300 g)
Basil: 0.5oz(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¼cup(50 g)
Eggplant: 3.5oz(100 g)
Pine nuts: 1oz(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
When the fresh aromatic scent of basil leaves come together with the genuine flavor and softness of a much-loved cheese like burrata, the dish is guaranteed to be a success. We’ve captured these winning aromas in a truly special first-course dish: spaghetti with creamy burrata and eggplant . Luscious burrata and fragrant basil create a delicious accompaniment for the spaghetti embellished with strips of fried eggplant and crunchy toasted pine nuts. Serve the spaghetti with creamy burrata and eggplant with a tasty tomato and basil frittata for a fresh menu that’s bursting with Mediterranean flavors!
Discover more delicious Spaghetti recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the spaghetti with creamy burrata and eggplant , cut the burrata into pieces and place in a food processor, then add the basil leaves , olive oil , salt, and pepper.
Blend until you get a smooth, even cream , then set aside in the fridge. Wash and trim the eggplant, then slice them thinly (about the thickness of a coin (1-2 cm) , and from the slices cut julienne-style strips .
Fry the eggplant strips in peanut oil for 3 minutes until golden brown . For optimal cooking, we recommend keeping the oil temperature at 320°F (160°C); to keep the temperature from going down, it’s better to cook just a few strips at a time (use a food thermometer to check the temperature). Once cooked, take the eggplant strips out of the oil using kitchen tweezers and arrange them on tray lined with paper towel, which will absorb the excess oil . Meanwhile, put a pot filled with water on high heat and add salt to taste; this will be for cooking the pasta. Separately, in a frying pan, toast the pine nuts over high heat for 2 minutes or until golden .
Once the water has come to a boil, cook the spaghetti for 9 minutes or slightly less than the time stated on the package; it should be al dente . Next, pour the burrata and basil cream into a large pan and dilute with a ladleful of pasta cooking water to make the cream even smoother . Once the spaghetti is cooked, drain it and then pour directly into the pan with the cream . Stir with a wooden spoon to develop the flavor and warm over moderate heat for a minute or two, just long enough to heat up the sauce.
Now, turn off the heat and add the fried eggplant strips, reserving some for the final decoration , as well as the toasted pine nuts . Serve the spaghetti with creamy burrata and eggplant hot, garnishing the plates with the reserved eggplant strips and some fresh basil leaves .
We recommend eating the spaghetti with creamy burrata and eggplant right away. Any leftovers can be kept in the fridge for up to one day, in an airtight container. Not suitable for freezing.
To make this first-course dish even tastier, add some cherry tomato confit – it will add a touch of color and sweetness to the spaghetti!

