name:
Strozzapreti with cheese, mussels, and pepper
ingredients:
Strozzapreti pasta: 1.1lbs(500 g)- fresh
Mussels: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 7oz(200 g)- to grate
Ground black pepper: 1tsp(10 g)
Dry white wine: 1.4oz(40 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Strozzapreti with cheese, mussels, and pepper encapsulate the genuineness of fresh pasta, the spicy aroma of pepper, and the creaminess of Pecorino Romano in an unconventional first course. Here you will discover an unusual combination of excellent ingredients on their own, yet wonderful when combined together in a pasta with a unique and enveloping flavor. The sauce is born from the meeting between the classic Cacio e Pepe spaghetti and the sea aroma provided by the tastiest fruits ever, mussels. Let yourself be captivated by this first course with strong but well-balanced flavors, perfect for being the star of festive days as an original Christmas recipe for the Christmas Eve menu!
Also discover these variations:

To prepare Strozzapreti with cheese, mussels, and pepper, heat a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil in a pan with a clove of garlic . Add the mussels , increase the heat and deglaze with the wine , then let the alcohol evaporate.
Cover with the lid, and after 3-4 minutes the shells will open . Drain the mussels into a bowl .
Filter their liquid and set it aside . Shell the mussels and keep them warm covered , saving a few with shells for decoration. Briefly toast the peppercorns in a pan .
Crush the pepper in a mortar until it turns into powder . Grate the Pecorino Romano .
Gradually add the mussel water to the Pecorino and mix with a whisk until you get a cream . Meanwhile, cook the Strozzapreti in unsalted boiling water .
Chop the parsley . In the pan where you toasted the grains, off the heat, add the hand-ground pepper , then drain the cooked Strozzapreti into the pan .
Add the Pecorino cream , the mussels, and the parsley . Stir to mix and obtain an enveloping sauce . The Strozzapreti with cheese, mussels, and pepper are ready, serve them immediately !
It is recommended to consume Strozzapreti with cheese, mussels, and pepper as soon as possible.
You can flavor the Pecorino cream with saffron threads.
To make this homemade pasta format, you can follow our recipe for Strozzapreti !

