name:
Wild berry tiramisù
ingredients:
Ladyfingers: 2oz(50 g)
Raspberries: 20
Mascarpone cheese: ⅔cup(150 g)
Heavy cream: ¾cup(150 g)
Powdered sugar: 3tbsp(20 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Strawberries: 4oz(100 g)
Raspberries: 2oz(60 g)
Lemon juice: ¼cup(50 g)
Brown sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)
Wildflower honey: 2tbsp
Berries: (30 g)
Mint: 

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
It’s undoubtedly the best-loved dessert in Italy; a firm fixture on restaurant dessert menus but also a perennial favorite among treats to make at home. It’s been reinterpreted and we’ve always had fun experimenting with an array of delicious alternatives: lemon, orange, and strawberry – in the classic version or egg-free ! It comes with fruity variations and even with cardamom for lovers of a more exotic touch. There’s even a vegan recipe to ensure that no one is excluded from this dessert fest. Riding this imaginative tide, today we’re bringing you wild berry tiramisu , served in elegant single-portion dessert glasses, and made with fresh red berries and a silky-smooth cream you can whip up in a flash. These spoonfuls of sweetness will be your trump card to finish off a fun evening with friends!
Check out these other tasty variations:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the wild berry tiramisu , first wash the berries and dry them. Remove the stalks from the strawberries and cut them into small pieces . Add the chopped raspberries
and strawberries to the jug of an immersion blender. Then add the brown sugar and lemon juice .
Next, blitz everything with the blender to get a smooth mixture. Sweeten the mixture with honey and add the seeds of half a vanilla bean .
Now emulsify the mixture again with the blender . Set aside the mixture and cut the ladyfingers in half .
Pour the heavy cream into a bowl, add the powdered sugar , and whip with the whisk to get a frothy cream . Separately, add the vanilla seeds
to the mascarpone so they impart their flavor, then fold in the whipped cream a little at a time, stirring gently from the bottom up to keep it from curdling . Transfer the resulting creamy mixture to a pastry bag (17-18).
Squeeze a first layer of the mixture into glasses measuring 3 inches (8 cm) in diameter and approximately 2.5 inches (6.5 cm) tall . Dip a ladyfinger cut in half in the red berry coulis , place it in the glass and add one more layer of cream .
Now squeeze on more mixture and add 4-5 raspberries . Add another layer of ladyfingers and finish with a final layer of mixture .
Top your wild berry tiramisu with a few teaspoonfuls of leftover sauce and finish by garnishing with a few berries to taste as well as fresh mint leaves .
Keep the wild berry tiramisu in the refrigerator for a couple of days at most. Not suitable for freezing.
If you like boozy desserts, you can add 1.5 tsp (20 g) of aromatic grappa to the coulis.

