name:
Mussels au gratin
ingredients:
Mussels: 1lb(500 g)- (in their water)
Breadcrumbs: ¾cup(100 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1tbsp- (grated)
Garlic: 1clove
Lemon peel: 1
Parsley: 0.3cup(10 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Mussels au gratin are a delicious seafood appetizer, their shells stuffed with a tasty filling of breadcrumbs and grated cheese, all flavored with parsley and lemon zest for a pleasant citrus note. The secret touch will be the addition of water from the mussels themselves, further enhancing the flavor of the dish. Mussels au gratin are really quick and easy to prepare and are the ideal appetizer to a tasty seafood dinner, perhaps even served with delicious scallops, or to liven up a traditional Christmas menu.
You can also try:
To make the mussels au gratin, first of all clean them, discarding any open mussels and keeping only the closed ones. After rinsing them under running water , remove the beard that sticks out of the shells, by pulling outwards . Open the mussel gently by inserting a small knife at the point where it splits and go all the way around ,
making sure that when you open it, the mussel remains intact and attached to the shell . Repeat the process with all of the mussels and keep their water , filtering it through a strainer , as this will be used later on to wet the breadcrumbs.
As you open the mussels, place them on a baking tray lined with parchment paper . Next, prepare the breadcrumbs. Pour them into a bowl, together with the grated Grana Padano cheese , the chopped fresh parsley ,
the zest of the lemon , a crushed garlic clove and a sprinkling of black pepper .
Now pour in 2½ tbsp (30 g) of olive oil and ? cup (150 g) of filtered mussel water . Stir to achieve a smooth, moist mixture .
Using a spoon, stuff the mussels , drizzle them with olive oil , and bake them on the top shelf of a conventional oven preheated to 390°F (200°C) for 12 minutes and then on maximum power in broil mode for another 3 minutes. Once cooked, take your mussels au gratin out of the oven and serve immediately .
We recommend eating your baked mussels right away.
Not recommended for freezing.
Mussels are known for their strong flavor, so you won’t need to add any salt. You could also make this dish by allowing the mussels to open up in the pan with the lid on until they are all fully open, and then stuffing them once cooked.

