name:
Omelette (basic recipe)
ingredients:
Eggs: 2- large
Whole milk: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 4 min
Makes: 1 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
The omelette is a dish of French origin, which should not be confused with the classic Italian frittata. It may seem simple to prepare, and actually an omelet is made in just a few minutes, but this recipe can be quite tricky! Today in the Giallozafferano kitchen we had the honor of hosting Cristina Bowerman, a great chef who explained to us how to make the perfect omelet! Starting with the choice of eggs, which must be very fresh, in fact only a superior quality ingredient can transform a simple dish like an omelet into something really special! We then proceed to the cooking, which must be done over a low flame: in fact, by cooking slowly, the egg will be at its softest. But be careful, despite all our advice, you will have to rely on your good judgment and understand when it's the right time to fold the omelette in a crescent shape! That's how you can obtain a light uniform golden color on the outside and a creamy ("drooly") inside. Fill your omelette with cheese or cold cuts, maybe you can also try a vegetable omelette! Serve your omelette with a fruit juice for a healthy and nutritious breakfast! A meal that can give you the right boost all day long... wholesome and complete!
To prepare the omelettes , first break the eggs into a bowl . Add the milk and a pinch of salt .
Whisk together the eggs and the milk to blend thoroughly. They will be ready when the mixture falls off the whisk in a stream .
Heat a pan and add a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil. As soon as it is hot, pour the egg mixture in the pan ; to see if the oil is hot enough, try pouring a few drops in first. Cook the omelette over medium-low heat: the egg will remain softer if cooked slowly. The outside should be golden, but not too much, as soon as it starts to set on the edges, cover it with a lid . If the temperature seems to be too high, move the pan away from the heat for a few seconds, with the lid on. Swirl the pan gently to prevent the omelette from resting on the same spot for too long. As soon as the omelette is soft on the surface ("drooly")
and when lifting the edge with a spatula the bottom is a golden color , fold the omelette in a crescent shape , leave it a few more seconds in the pan and serve your omelette hot . Simple or accompanied by seasonal vegetables, it will make an excellent second course. With crispy bacon, it will help complete a perfect continental breakfast!
We recommend eating the omelette immediately.
When making an omelette, use the freshest eggs. How can you check the freshness of your eggs? You can immerse them in water: the more they float, the older they are. You can break one in a saucer: if the egg white is well attached to the yolk and is not too runny, it means that they are fresh. The color of the yolks, on the other hand, does not determine the freshness, it depends on what the hens have been fed and the yellow color may be more or less intense. We also recommend that you always use fresh eggs from free-range hens.

