name:
Cocoa sponge cake
ingredients:
Egg whites: ⅔cup(135 g)- (about 4)
Egg yolks: ½cup(120 g)- (about 6)
Sugar: ⅔cup(155 g)
Butter: 3 ¾tbsp(30 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 3 ¾tbsp(30 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ½tbsp(22 g)
Potato starch: 1 ½tbsp(22 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 7 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
Cocoa sponge cake is one of the variants of the traditional sponge cake, a basic preparation widely used in pastry shops. It is the ideal base for preparing delicious cakes to be filled with any type of cream, such as egg-free custard or classic custard cream. In addition to being used as a base for cakes, natural cocoa-flavored sponge cake is also perfect as a snack for children: just add a layer of jam to make it special! Also try filling it with fresh seasonal fruit to make it even better!
To prepare the cocoa sponge cake , first pour the egg whites into the bowl of a stand mixer and start whisking at medium speed. Add sugar a little at a time, increasing the speed of the mixer . The egg whites must be whipped until they are shiny .
While the mixer is running, sift the flour together with the starch and cocoa powder . Repeat the operation twice then set aside . Meanwhile, melt the butter in a saucepan and let cool.
When the egg whites are whipped, pour the yolks into the mixer while in operation . After having added the yolks, turn off the stand mixer: the mixture obtained should flow slightly from the whisk . Pour part of the mixture into a bowl and add part of the powder .
Pour in the melted butter and mix; then add this mixture to the rest of the whipped part, add the remaining powder and stir gently from the bottom to the top . Now place the pastry rings with a diameter of 7 inches (18 cm) and a height of 1/3 inch (8 mm) on a drip pan lined with baking paper: you can bake 2 at a time and pour the dough inside .
Level the surface with the back of a spoon and bake in a static oven preheated to 430° F (220° C) for 6-7 minutes. Once cooked, remove from the oven and let it cool , then use a small knife to remove the sponge cake from the ring. Place the cocoa sponge cake on a rack to cool completely before using it for your creations !
You can keep the cocoa sponge cake well wrapped in plastic wrap for a week in a cool, dry place.
Alternatively, you can freeze it for a month.
You can fill the sponge cake with lemon zest jam.
This sponge cake holds liquids well. You can also fill it with whipped cream, chocolate mousse or cream.
If instead of the indicated pastry rings you prefer to use the most common ones with a diameter of 7 inches (18 cm) and a height of 1 1/2 inches (4 cm), you will have to fill the molds half full and bake them in a static oven at 375° F (190° C) for about 15-20 minutes. In this case, you will obtain 3 layers of sponge cake.

