name:
Cold pasta salad with salmon
ingredients:
Bow tie pasta: 11oz(320 g)
Salmon fillets: 1lb(470 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Basil: to taste- to garnish
Extra virgin olive oil: 
Sardinian camone tomato: 8.5oz(240 g)
Yellow peppers: 6.5oz(180 g)
Red onions: ¾cup(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Basil: ¾cup(20 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Lemon peel: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time

instructions:
When you think of cold pasta, the classic mix of cherry tomatoes, cheese, tuna, and basil is what usually comes to mind, but for those who want to surprise their friends with a sophisticated summer dish, this recipe for a cold pasta salad with salmon is the perfect choice! A real treat enhanced not only with pieces of lightly seared fresh salmon, but also with a delicious summer vegetable purée made without cream, like the classic version, that will only enhance the flavors of your cold pasta salad with salmon. This dish is so good that you’ll want to recreate this base with other toppings, such as tuna or swordfish, or even create a delicious vegetarian cold pasta salad .
To prepare the cold pasta salad with salmon , start with the puréed vegetables. Wash the vegetables, then remove the top of the pepper , remove the strands and seeds from inside, and cut it into small pieces . Cut the Camone tomatoes in half and
do the same with the red onion, once peeled . Pour everything into a food processor together with the basil, salt, pepper, and oil . Blitz for a few seconds until you get a purée, then set aside . Heat a pan full of water for cooking the bow tie pasta, and add salt once boiling.
In the meantime, move on to the salmon, first cutting it into strips and then into cubes of around an inch (a couple of centimeters) . Heat a little oil in a pan and add the salmon .
Let it sizzle over medium heat for 4-5 minutes, stirring occasionally and taking care not to let it flake. Once it’s nearly cooked, season with salt, and set aside to cool . Finally, prepare the pasta. Place the bow ties in the salted boiling water , and as soon as they are cooked al dente, drain them and pour them into a bowl, dress with oil, and leave to cool .
Pour the puréed vegetables over the pasta , stir, and garnish with the grated lemon zest and a few basil leaves .
Finally, add the salmon and give it a final stir . Leave to cool in the refrigerator for an hour or so before serving your cold pasta salad with salmon !
You can store your cold pasta salad with salmon in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. Not recommended for freezing.
As with any other cold pasta dish, you can play around with lots of your own variations on this cold pasta salad with salmon. We’d suggest trying some diced fresh feta or marinating tofu in lime (for a lactose-free option). You might even like to try seasoning with mint instead of basil!

